OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

No question is here as to any general principle of the law
of contracts of insurance (Carpenterv. Providence Washington Ins. Co., 16 Pet. 2495, 511; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Moore, 231 U. S. 543, 559), with consequences broader
than those involved in the construction of a highly specialized condition. All that is here for our decision is
the meaning, the tacit implications, of a particular set of
words, which, as experience has shown, may yield a different answer to this reader and to that one. With choice
so "balanced with doubt," we accept as our guide the
law declared by the state where the contract had its
being. Trainor Co. v. Aetna Casualty Co., 290 U. S. 47,
54, 55; Sim v. Edenborn, 242 U. S. 131, 135; Community
Building Co. v. Maryland Casualty Co., 8 F. (2d) 678,
680; Fordson Coal Co. V. Kentucky River Coal Corp.,
69 F. (2d) 131, 132.
Affirmed.
The judgment is
UNITED STATES v. GUARANTY TRUST COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 120.

Argued November 13, 14, 1934.-Decided December 10,
1934.

1. By the law of the District of Columbia, a forged signature of
the payee on a check is inoperative to pass to a subsequent bona
fide holder for value, either the title to the instrument, or the
right to enforce payment, or the right to retain the proceeds if
payment is made in ignorance of the forgery. P. -345.
2. Under settled principles of conflict of laws, the validity of a
transfer of a chattel brought into a country by consent of the
owner, is governed by the law of that country; and this rule
"applies to neg(tiable instruments. P. 345.
3. The principle applies in the present case to a government check,
drawn and payable in the District of Columbia, but which was

U. S. v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
340

Statement of the Case.

mailed by the Government from the District to the payee at his
residence in Yugoslavia, and was negotiated in that Kingdom.
P. 346.
4. By the law of Yugoslavia, as stipulated in this case, the transferee
of a check, who takes it in good faith and for value without notice
that the endorsement of the payee's name was forged or notice of
other defect, and without negligence or fraud on his own part,
acquires title to the instrument and the right to collect it and
retain the proceeds. Held that a holder of a check acquired by
transfer under these circumstances in Yugoslavia, had the right
in this country to enforce payment and to retain the proceeds as
against the drawer, although, by the law of the District of Columbia, where the check was drawn and made payable and was delivered by mailing, a forged endorsement is inoperative,- the check
having been sent by the drawer to the payee in Yugoslavia with
the presumed intention that it should be negotiated there according
to the law of that country. P. 346.
5. An express guarantee of prior endorsements means no more than
what is implied by every unrestricted endorsement- namely, that
the endorsements were effective to give legal title and the, right
to enforce payment. P. 348.
6. A Treasury circular declared that the handling of Government
checks by Reserve Banks should be "subject to examination and
payment by the. Treasurer of the United States "; and a circular
of a Reserve Bank declared that, as the Government exercised the
right of returning at any time checks which, for any cause, were
not considered good, the Bank, as fiscal agent, as a condition of
receiving checks on the Treasury, reserved the right to charge
back and return them unconditionally. Held that collection of a
government check through the agency of the Bank with knowledge
of these provisions does not imply consent that the Government
may demand restitution irrespective of its obligation to make the
payment. P. 349.
"1. As against the United States, the rights of th6 holder of its checks
drawn upon the Treasurer are the same as those accorded by
commercial practice to the checks of priyate individuals. P. 350.
69 F. (2d) 799, affirmed.

. CERTIORARI * to review the reversal of a judgment recovered by the United States in an action for money paid
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

on a check bearing a forged endorsement of the payee's
name.
Mr. Justin Miller, with whom Solicitor General Biggs,
Assistant Attorney General Sweeney, and Messrs. Paul
A. Sweeney and W. Marvin Smith were on the briefs, for
the United States.
Mr. Theodore Kiendl, with whom Mr. John W. Davis
was on the brief, for the respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Edwin DeT. Bechtel and
Malcolm S. McNeal Watts filed a brief as amici curiae,
on behalf of the American Express Co.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On September 5, 1929, the United States brought in
the federal court for southern New York, this action to
recover from the Guaranty Trust Company $160 with
interest. That sum was claimed as damages resulting
from the payment to the Trust Company, through the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York acting as fiscal agent
of the United States, of a check, payable to Louis
Macakanja drawn on the Treasury of the United States
by the disbursing clerk of the United States Veterans'
Bureau. The complaint alleged that the letter containing
the check had been mailed to the payee in Yugoslavia;
that neither the "payee of said check nor any one on his
behalf had ever received or endorsed the same "; and that
" the letter containing the check was taken or received
in Jugoslavia by some person other than the payee thereof, and that thereafter the name of Louis Macakanja was
written on the back of the said check by some person other
tian the payee thereof, and by a person who was not
authorized to sign the name of aid payee and who had
no right; title, or interest in and to said check, with pos-

U. S. v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
340

343

Opinion of the Court.

session thereof, and no right or authority to receive, endorse, or dispose of the same."
The answer set up as a special defense that the " check
was negotiated and transferred in the Kingdom of JugoSlavia "; that under its law " upon the negotiation and
transfer of a check every transferee, if he takes without
actual notice of any alleged forgery or other defect, in the
absence of fraud or gross negligence, obtains a good title to
the instrument, even if the endorsement of the payee is
forged, and acquires the right to collect and retain the
proceeds"; that "each of the transferees of the check
mentioned in the complaint gave valuable consideration
and took without notice of any alleged forgery or other
defect, and without fraud or negligence, and thereby obtained a good title to the instrument and acquired the
right to collect and retain the proceeds"; and that the
"defendant under the law of Jugo-Slavia, duly obtained
title to said check, as aforesaid, and duly collected and
retained the proceeds." 1
The law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia inreference to checks and
bills of exchange, according to the stipulation, was in 1921, and still is,
as follows:
" Upon the negotiation and transfer of a check or bill of exchange
each trainsferee, endorsee, or holder thereof obtains a good title to the
instrument and acquires the right to collect and retain the proceeds
thereof, even though the endorsement of the payee is forged where
"(a) The instrument purports to bear a chain or series of endorsement.; from the payee of the instrument to the transferee, holder or
endorsee thereof; and
"(b) The said tr:msferee, holder or endorsee gives valuable consideration for the instrument; and
-(c) The said transferee, holder or endorsee takes the instrument
without actual notice of any forgery or tothwr defect in the instrument and is not guilty of any fraud or gross negligence in taking the
instrument.
The law of Jugo-1lavia further provides that
-(a) When an endorsement follows a blank endorsement there is a
presumption of law that the person who executed the endorsement

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

296 u.;

The case was tried before a jury. The eviaence consisted of an agreement as to facts and the cancelled check.
The agreement recited, among other things, that the purported endorsement of the payee was a forgery, made in
Yugoslavia; that on or about November 30, 1921, the
check was transferred and delivered there to the " Merkur" Bank; that the "Merkur" Bank duly endorsed]
the check and transferred it in Yugoslavia .to the - Slavenska" Bank; that the "Slavenska " Bank endorsed
and transferred the check in Yugoslavia to the Guaranty
Trust Company and forwarded it by mail; that each of
these banks paid a valuable consideration, received the
check in good faith, took it without notice of the forgery
or other defect, and was not guilty of any fraud or negligence; that "the Treasurei of the United States upon
receipt of said check paid the same by crediting the Federal Reserve Bank of New York with the amount ":
that, in December, 1921, that Bank credited the Trust
Company with the amount; that the United States first
learned of the forgery on or about April 27, 1926; and
that on June 1, 1926, it requested, through the Federal
Reserve Bank, reclamation from the defendant, which
was denied.
The check, dated October 29, 1921, was payable to thr,
order of " Louis Macakanja, 37 Sasava Kot Glina, Z. P.
Maja, Jugoslavia." When presented for payment, it bore
what purported to be his endorsement made in the presence of two witnesses and a certification by the Municipal
Administration of Maja to the effect that "the holder
ba- acquired title to the instrument undpr the blank end',rsemm'
and
"(b) The transferee,'ho]der or endorsee of the instrument is undo.
no duty or obligation to investigate the geniineness of prior endorsements.
" Under the law of Jugo-Slavia an end,1r-er does nut guarantee o;
warrant the genuineness of prior ,ndorsements."

U. S. v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
340

Opinion of the Court.

of the check is identical with the beneficiary thereof"
and that the witnesses as well as the receiver of the
money had subscribed the instrument. The check bore
these further endorsements: "'Merkur' Banking and
Exchange Business, Stanko Shon, Zagreb "; "Pay to the
order of Guaranty Trust Co. of New York, New York
City, N Y. Slavenska Bank D. D. Zagreb "; also the
stamp of the Guaranty Trust Co.: " Previous Endorsements Guaranteed "; and the stamp of the Federal Reserve Bank.
Each party moved for a directed verdict. The District
Court directed a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$160 with interest from June 1, 1926; and entered judgment for that amount. The Court of Appeals reversed
the judgment, 69 F. (2d) 799. This Court granted
certiorari.
First. The check was both drawn and payable in the
District of Columbia. By the law of the District a forged
endorsement of the payee's name is declared to be wholly
inoperative 2 Ordinarily, a subsequent bona fide holder
for value without notice of the forgery would acquire
neither title to the instrument nor the right to enforce
payment; and would acquire no right to retain the proceeds if payment were made in ignorance of the forgery.
But under settled principles of conflict of laws, adopted
by both federal and state courts, the validity of a transfer
of a chattel brought into a country by the consent of the
'Code of Laws of the District of Columbia, Title 22, § 24, and also
§ 42 of the New York Negotiable Instruments Law provides: " Where
A signature is forged or made without the authority of the person
. :. se signature it purports to be it is wholly inoperative, and no
.,d:.i
Lu retdin the instrument, or to give a discharge therefor, or to
t..lurce paymnlit thereof against any party thereto can be acquired
•niough or uader such signature, unless the party against whom it is
sought to enforce such right is precluded from setting up the forgery
or want of authority."

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

owner is governed by its law; and that rule applies to
negotiable instruments. Embiricos v. Anglo-Austrian
Bank, [1905] 1 K. B. 677; Weissman v. Banque de

Bruxelles, 254 N. Y. 488, 494; 173 N. E. 835. Compare Disconto-Gesellschaft v. United States Steel Corp.,
267 U. S. 22, 28. See Queensboro Nat. Bank v. Kelly, 48
F. (2d) 574, 576. Here, the rule is particularly applicable;
for the Government, having made the check payable to
one therein described as resident in"Yugoslavia and having
mailed it to his Yugoslavia address, must be deemed to
have intended that it should be negotiated there, according to the law of that country. It was thereby given
something of the quality of a foreign bill; although technically the check was delivered within the District when
mailed there. Compare Koechlin et cie v. Kestenbaum
Brothers, [1927] 1 K. B. 889; see Lorenzon, Conflict of
Laws Relating to Bills and Notes,, (1919) p. 135, n. 267.
The law of Yugoslavia provides that the transferee in due
course acquires, despite the forgery, not only "a good title
to the instrument," but also " the right to collect and retain the proceeds thereof." As the Government sent the
check to Yugoslavia and the forged endorsement and the
transfers of the check were made there, its law governs
the validity of the transfer; and the banks acquired, at
least, a good title to the check.3
Second. The Government contends that although the
title to the check may have passed from the payee to the
Trust Company, it acquired, as against the drawer, no
right either to enforce payment or to retain the proceeds
paid. The argument is that, since the check was both
drawn and payable within the District, the obligation
'Compare McClintick v. Cummins, 3 McLean 158; Fed. Cas. 8,699;
Dundas v. Bowler, 3 McLean 397; Fed.'Cas. No. 4,141; Russell v.
Grigsby, 168 Fed. 577, 580; rev. on other grounds, 222 U. S. 149.

U. S. v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
340

Opinion of the Court.

arising therefrom is governed by its laws; that, under the
law of the District the drawer agreed to pay the check
only on the order of the payee; and that since there was
no such order and the payment made was in ignorance of
the forgery, the money may be recovered as having been
paid under a mistake. The law of tnc District determines
the formal and essential validity of tie check, the interpretation of the contract, the incidents of the obligation.
But the Trust Company does not attempt to enlarge or
modify the obligation of the drawer as determined by the
law of the District. The question presented is: Has the
Trust Company, by acquiring title to the check, acquired
the right to enforce the obligation which it represents.
The enforcement does not contravene the public policy of
the District. The question relates to the incidents of the
transfer of title to a chattel; and, hence, is determined
by the law of Yugoslavia. The Trust Company is not
confronted with any procedural obstacle, like that presented in some jurisdictions where the transferee of a nonnegotiable cause of action seeks to sue thereon in his own
name. Compare Harper v. Butler, 2 Pet. 239, 240. Nor
is the Trust Company confronted by a-divergent public
policy of the forum, which forbids its courts from applying
the Yugoslavian law. Compare Bond v. Hume, 243 U. S.
15; Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S.261, 277. Indeed, the
courts of New York, where this suit was brought, would
doubtless give effect to the rule of the 'foreign law here
relied on. Compare Weissman v. Banque de Bruxelles,
254 N. Y. 488, 494; 173 N. E. 835.
The Government argues that acquisition of the legal
title to negotiable paper does not necessarily imply acquisition of a cause of actiun thereon. It is suggested that
even an instrument properly endorsed by the payee so
as to transfer the title may fail to confer any right to
enforce the obligation of the maker, as where the cause of

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

action had been lost by a discharge in bankruptcy; and
that when the title to the instrument is transferred to a
bona fide holder for value without an endorsement, or
after maturity, the transferree may fail to acquire a right
to enforce payment, because such paper is subject to any
defense open as against the payee. But those rules have
no application here. The discharge in bankruptcy operates upon the obligation represented by the check regardless of who the holder may be. The transferee without
endorsement, or after maturity, acquires the rights which
the payee had; and it is those rights only which the Trust
Company asserts. To conclude that the forged endorsement was sufficient to pass legal title, but insufficient to
transfer the right of the payee to collect the proceeds,
would deprive the transfer of " title " of all significance
except as regards the right to retain a scrap of worthless
paper.!
Third. The Government contends that irrespective of
considerations discussed above, the Trust Company is liable because of its endorsement. The argument is that
its endorsement, -made when the check was presented for
payment through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
is an independent contract governed by the law of New
York, Spies v. National City Bank, 174 N. Y. 222, 225;
66 N. E. 736; that, by the Negotiable Instruments Law
of that State, the endorsement warrants, besides the title,
the authenticity of penmanship of the payee or the authorization of the endorsement in his name;' and that, if
'Compare Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 735; Metier v. Phenix Nat.
Bank, 94 App. Div. 331, 88 N. Y. S. 83; affd. 183 N. Y. 511, 76 N. E
1100; Peterson v. Swanson, 176 Minn. 246; 223 N. W. 287; Beneficiat
Loan Assn. v. Hillery, C15N. J. L. 271, 276; 113 Atl. 324.
'Negotiable Instruments Law of New York provides:
§ 116. Every endorser who indorses without qualification, warrants
to all subsequent holders in due course:
(1) The matters and things mentioned in subdivisions one, two and
three of the next preceding section; and

U. S. v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
340

Opinion of the Court.

fhere be doubt as to the meaning and effect of an endorsement under the law of New York, there can be no doubt
as to the Trust Company's obligation, because of the
terms of its stamp: " Prior endorsements guaranteed."
The express guarantee of prior endorsements means no
more than what is implied by every unrestricted endorsement; namely that the endorsements were effective to
give to the holder a legal title and the right to enforce
payment of the check.
Fourth. The Government contends that it is entitled
to recover because of exceptional rights conferred in express terms by regulations of the Treasury and of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. A Treasury circular
then in effect provided for the handling of Government
checks by the Reserve Banks and branches "subject to
examination and payment by the Treasurer of the United
States." ' A Reserve Bank circular recited: "The Government has for many years exercised the right of returning at any time warrants and checks which for any cause
have not been considered good, and the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York as fiscal agent of the United States as
a condition of receiving government warrants and checks
on the Treasurer of the United States from member banks
or through the New York Clearing House reserves the
right to charge back any such item and return the same
at any time unconditionally to the institution from which
it was received."'
(2) That the instrument is at the time of his endorsement valid
and subsisting.
The "matters and things " in § 115 so referred to are:
(1) That the instrument is genuine and in all respects what it purports to be;
(2) That he has a good title to it;
(3) That all prior parties had capacity to contract.
:Treasury Department Circular No. 176. December 31, 1919.
'Reserve Bank Circular No. 258. March 1, 1920.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

The argument is that with knowledge of these regulations the check was presented by the Trust Company for
payment through the Reserve Bank-of New York, and
sent by the Bank to the TreasureK of the United States;
that the Treasurer paid the check by crediting the Reserve Bank with the amount, and the Reserve Bank so
credited the Trust Company; that the Trust Company
was not obliged to avail itself of the facilities of the
Reserve Bank; and that having done so with full-knowledge of the regulation, it consented that the Government
might charge back any such item and return the same at
any time unconditionally. Closter Natinal Bank v.
FederalReserve Bank, 285 Fed. 138, 140, is cited as establishing this proposition. And it is suggested, that, since
the rule there declared is controlling, no occasion exists
for deciding the question of conflict of -laws presented by
the petition for certiorari. The rule declared in the
Closter case has no application 'here.' That case dealt
solely with the relation between the holder of the check
and the collecting agency employed. As against the United
States, the rights of the holder of its checks drawn upon
the Treasurer are the same as those accorded by commercial practice to the checks of private individuals.
Compare United States v. National Exchange Bank, 270
U. S. 527, 534; Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S. 571, 579.
8 The United States was not a party to that litigation. The Closter
Bank sued the Reserve Bank, collecting agent, for the proceeds of a
check. The court held that it was a term of the employment that
the Reserve Bank might charge back any amount paid on a check if
the Government refused final payment; and that hence it was unnecessary for the Reserve Bank to prove that the clheck in question was
forged: "By the terms-of the collecting agreement under which the
defendant in error performed the service, the collection agent had
the right, if it acted in good faith, to charge back the item to the
plaintiff in error's account, without the necessity of establishing forgery or alteration of the warrant."

McLAUGHLIN -v. LUMBER CO.
Syllabus.

340

Moreover, the Government expressly disclaimed the assertion of a preferred position.- Additional reasons are suggested for affirming'the judgment of the Court of Appeals: That the Government cannot recover on the'guaranty of prior endorsements, because it has failed to show damage, from the alleged
breach. That it cannot recover the money as having been
paid under a mistake, because it has failed to show "that
the defendant cannot retain the money with good conscience." Compare UnitedStates v. Chase National Bank,
252 U. S. 485, 495. That recovery must be denied, regardless of the foreign law, because on the agreed facts, the
Government is, under § 24 of the Code of the District,
"precluded from setting up the forgery."
Compare
Hortsman v. Henshaw,.11 How. 177. Since we sustain
the special defense based on the law of Yugoslavia, we
have no occasion to pass on these matters.
Affirmed.

McLAUGHLIN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. PACIFIC LUMBER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF" APPEALS FOR THE
"

No. 125.

NINTH CIRCUIT.

Argued Novembvr 12, 13, 1934.-Decided December 10,

1934.
1. In an action at law tried without a jury, where both parties move
at the close for judgment on the evidence and judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, the question whether the evidence was suf-.
ficient to warrant the judgment is a reviewable question of law.
P. 355.
2. Consolidated income tax returns of affiliated corporations must
truly reflect taxable income of the unitary business and may not
° See letter of Jan. 12, 1922, by L. P. Gilbert, Jr., Under Secretary,
to The Guaranty Trust Company.

