OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

293 U. S

BROTHERHOOD OF LOCOMOTIVE FIREMEN &
ENGINEMEN ET AL. V. PINKSTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 32. Argued October 16, 17, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.
1. In a suit in equity brought by a widow for th6 purpose of preserving and protecting her right to future participation in a fund from
which she is entitled to receive a pension of so much per month
during- her lifetime as long as she shall remain unmarried, the
amount in controversy, determining the federal court's jurisdiction,
is the present value of her interest, calculable from the amount of
the monthly payment and her life expectancy. P. 99.
2. The fact .that the further payments will cease if the pensioner remarry does not render them contingent or speculative. Thompson
v Thompson, 226 U. S. 551. P. 100.
3. The evidence discloses that the pensioner's "expectancy of remarriage" and its effect upon the value of her interest in the fund were
subject to actuarial measurement in this case. P. 101.
.69 F. (2d) 600, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 292 U. S. 621, to review the reversal of a
decree dismissing the bill, for lack of jurisdiction, in a suit.
by a widow on behalf of herself and of other beneficiaries
similarly situated, for an accounting and other equitable
relief in respect of a fund established by a labor association for the pensioning of. widows of their deceased mem-

M,'. Thomas Stevenso,, for petitioners.
Future payments depend entirely upon the volition of

the beneficiary. The prrobability of remarriage can not
even, be conjeetured. It is impossible to estimate the
present value of such contingent payments.
The court below carefully excluded from consideration
either the accumulated Pension Fund or the combined
claims of all matured certificate holders. Jurisdiction

BROTHERHOOD v. PINKSTON.
96

Argument for Petitioners.

rested solely upon the respondent's right under the certificate which she holds. Eberhard v. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co.) 241 Fed. 353; Lyon Bonding & Surety
Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S. 77.
In Thompson v. Thompson, 226 U. S. 551, jurisdiction
depended entirely upon whether the monthly payments
for maintenance of the wife and child provided for under
the order of the court were contingent. That case is an
exception from a well established rule.
If, as conclusively shown in. Dunbar v. Dunbar, 190
U. S. 340, it is impossible to value future payments,
subject to the contingency of remarriage, for the purposes of a discharge under the Bankruptcy Act, how can
this be done for the purpose of acquiring federal jurisdiction, in-the face of the strict rule of construction and
counter presumption governing that subject?
The doctrine of the Dunbar.case has frequently been
followed: Shanley- v. Herold, 141 Fed. 423; Herold v.
Shanley, 146 Fed. 20; In re Westmoreland, 4 F. (2d) 602.
In the Thompson case no condition was stated in the
court order which would of its own force aefeat the
future payments. The payments were as "fixed" as
humanly possible. An independent authority must act
to effect any change.
The ruling below is at variance with the decisions of
other federal courts and also state courts of last resort,
in denying federal jurisdiction in analogous cases, namely,
those based upon insurance policies and allegations of
total and permanent disability. LaVecchia v. Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co., 1 F. Supp. 588; Wyll v. Pacific
Mutual Life Ins. Co., 3 F. )Supp. 483; Kithcart v. Metro-,
politan Life Ins. Co., 1 F. Supp. 719; Reliance Life Ins.
Co. v. CapitalNat. Bank,.38 Ga. App. 349; GuardianLife
Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 186 Ark. 1019; Fields v. Equitable
Life Ins. Co., 199 N. C. 454.

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

Mr. W. L. Bryan, with whom Mr. James R. Garfield
was on the brief, for respondent.
In support of the ruling below, they cited: Thompson v. Thompson, 226 U. S. 551; Western & Atlantic R.

Co. v. Railroad Commission, 261 U. S. 264; Berryman v.
Board of Trustees, 222 U. S. 334; Mutual Life Ins. Co. V.
Rose, 294 Fed. 122; Wright -v. Mtztual Life Ins. Co.,
19 F. (2d) 117; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Swift, 38 F.
(2d) 175; Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S, 167; Bittermanv.
Louisville & N. R. Co., 207, U. S. 205; Hunt v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322; and Wisconsin Electric Co. v.
Dunmore Co., 35 F. (?d) 555.
Respondent asks that a trust be declared in and of the
Widows Pension Fund and that such fund, now admittedly insolvent, be administered under order of the
court. The fund so referred to approximates $300,000.00
in value. This also is a proper basis for determining the
question of jfrisdiction. Handley v. Stutz, 137 U. S. 366;
Jones v. Mutual Fidelity Co.,423 Fed. 506; Putnam,v.
Timothy Dry Goods Co., 79 F6d. 454; Kelly v. Graphite
Co., 34 F. (2d) 791; Conway v. Bank & Trust Co., 185
Fed. 950; Hotel Co. v. Wade, 97 U. S. 20; Towle v. American Building Loan Investment Society, 60 Fed. 131;
King v. Kansas City Police Relief Assn., 60 F. (2d) 547;
Local No. .7 v. Bowen, 278 Fed. 271.
Opi.Iion of the Court by MB. JUSTICE
announced by the CHmEF JuSTICE.

SUTHERLAND,

The Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen is an unincorporated voluntary association with
headquarters in Ohio. It has a department known as the
Widows' Pension Department, created in order to provide
a monthly income for the widows or widowed mothers
of. deceased members. The widow of a member, upon
his death, is to receive a peo sion of $35 per month during her lifetime. In the event of her remarriage, the

BROTHERHOOD v.. PINKSTON.
96

99

Opinion of the Court.

pension is to cease. The respondent, widow of a deceased member, became entitled to this pension. Thereafter,-the association, following an investigation of the
financial condition of the department and upon an actuarial report, determined to abolish the department. and
distribute the assets after making a lump-sum settlement
,not to exceed $1,500 with each widow' then on the pension roll. Widows refusing to settle'were'to have their
names erased from the roll, and be provisionally relegated
to another fund. Payment of monthly instalments on
pensions was discontinued, beginning September 1st,.
1931.

Complainant thereupon brought suit in a federal district court, on behalf of herself and other beneficiaries
similarly situated, for an accounting, -determination of
priorities, and a proper liquidation and administration of
the funds of the department. The federal jurisdiction
-was invoked on the grodud of diversity of citizenship.
The district court, after a hearing, dismissed the bill on
the ground that the requisite *mount to confer jurisdiction (over $3,000) was not involved. 'The court of ap'peals reversed, 69. F. (2d) .600; upon the authority of
Thompson v. Thonpson, 226 U. S. 551. Whether that
court rightly, held 'that the jurisdictional amount was involved is. the only question for consideration.
The entire fund is nearly $300,000. The bill proceeds
on the theory that this constitutes a trust fund, aid seeks
its administration under judicial orders. Respondent
urges that the: jurisdiction may well be tested by the
value of the whole fund. But we put that question ' aside,
since -we are of opinion that the value of respondent's
own interest in the funA exceeds the jurisdictional
amount.
This, it will be seen, is not an action at law to recover
overdue instalments, but a suit in equity to preserve and
protect a right to future participation in the fund. If

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

the value of that right exceeds $3,000, the district court
has jurisdiction.
In the Thompson case, a decree had been entered by' the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in favor of a
wife against her husband, for support. and maintenance
at the rate of $75 a month, together with $500 for counsel
fees. The decree was reversed by the Court of Appeals of
the District. On an appeal to this court, our jurisdiction
was challenged upon the ground that a sum in excess of
$5,000 was not involved, as the statute at that time required. While the instalments already accrued amounted
to much less than that, it was held that the expectancy of
lifeof the parties was clearly sufficient to make up the
balance, and jurisdiction was upheld. Mr. Justice Pitney,
who delivered the opinion, said (p. 560)-" The future
payments are not in any proper sense contingent or speculative, although they are subject to be increased, decreased
or even cut off, as just indicated."
The situation there and thathere fairly cannot be distinguished. The life expectancy of respondent, as shown
by the mortality 'tables, is enough to bring the value of
the future pension instalments, as of the date of the suit,
to a sum much in excess of $3,000; and as to that no
point is made. The jurisdictional defect said to exist is
that the payments are to cease in the event of respondent's remarriage; and this condition, petitioners say,
makes future, payments depend entirely upon the volition
.of the widow, and whether they may accrue is, therefore,
a matter. of pure speculation. Indeed, the happening of
the event does not dep6nd (if that would matter) upon.
the widow's volition alone, but equally upon the willingness of another to mary her. Continuance of payments
during the life of the respondent is fixed by contract quite
as definitely as continuance of payments for maintenance
in the Thompson case was fixed by decree, and subject to
substantially like conditions subsequent. In the Thomp-

BROTHERHOOD v. PINKSTON.
96

Opinion of the Court.

son case the payments were subject to be cut off entirely,
not only by death: but, the court said, "in the event of a
change in the circumstances of the parties." The same
is true here. In no respect are we able to see any difference in principle between the two cases. -The occurrence
of the specified event which would put an end to the obligation is no more uncertain in the one case than in 'the
other.
Moreover, the evidence discloses that the expectancy of
remarriag6 and its effect upon -the value of the pension
are capable of actuarial determitation. The law of averages applies in respect of that event, as it does in respect
of, death and of other events. Mr. Pipe, an actuary
called as a witness by petitioners, testified that the value
of respondent's right to receive $35 a'month so long as
she remained unmarried was, in round figures, $6,000 as.
of August 1, 1931. A report made to the Brotherhood,
*filed June 2, 1932, by its Committee on Constitution,
which seems -to have been made after careful study, contains the statemeAt:
"The 'present value' can be determined if we know
the average ages of widows corresponding to the ages at
the death of members, and we knoW the proportion of
widows who-remarry. This information is available from
the records of Pension Funds. For example, if w'e, know
that the average, age of the widows of members who die
at age 40, is 36, then the value of the benefit in event of
death at 40, is the present value of a pension of $420 per
annum on the life of a woman aged 36, taking into account
the chances of remarriage. The benefit has a definite
'lump sum' value on the death of the member, . . ."
Counsel upon both sides have cited and discussed decisions of this and other courts bearing upon the general
subject. We have examined these decisions, but find it
unnecessary to review or distinguish them. We agree
with the court below: that the question of jurisdiction here

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

under consideration is the same in substance as that involved in the Thompson case; and, that being so, the
decree of the court below must be
Affirmed.
ROWLEY, TREASURER OF CONVERSE COUNTY,
WYOMING, ET AL. v. CHICAGO &kNORTHWESTERN RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOlk THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 9. . Argued October 10, 1934.-DQcided November 5, 1934.
1. The Court is reluctant to place constructions upon statA Atutes of
doubtful meaning, or to decide other questions of state law as to
which there may be substantial controversy, in advance of decision
by the state courts of last resort. P. 104.
2. The ascertainment of the value'of a railway system is not a matter
of arithmetical calculation and is rt governed by any fixed and
definite rule. Facts of great variety and number, estimates that
are exact and those that are approximations, forecasts based on
probabilities and contingencies have bearing and properly may be
taken into account to guide judgment in determining what is the
money equivalent-the actual value-of the property. P. 109.
3. An apportionment of system. value of a railroad for taxation in one
of several States traversed by its lines can not be adjudged arbitrary merely because the mileage basis was used, although the average value per mile in that State was much less than for the system
as a whole, where the mileage ratio was applied not singly but combined with others, such as the ratios of the traffic units, use of rolling stock and average of gross and net operating revenue in that
State to the system totals; where -the computation was tested by
other criteria, such as the relations between cost of reproduction
less depreciation ol .the local property and system value and between operating.iet revenues derived from that property and those
earned by the system; and where there is nothing to show that. the
assessment was excessive. P. 110.

