McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
62

Argument for Respondents.

We axe not dealing here with the acknowledged power
of courts to protect property in their custody.. In re
Tyler, 149 U. S. 1,64, and similar cases are not pertinent.
Affirmed.

McCANDLESS, RECEIVER, v. FURLAUD

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 11.

Argued October 11, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. An objection to the capacity of the receiver of a corporation, appointed by a federal court, to sue in a federal court in another State
under an ancillary appointment made on his direct ex parte application and not as an incident to an independent bill; is an objection
that might have been remedied if timely made in the court of first
instance and is waived if made for the first time on appeal. P. 73.
2. The ourt in which the receiver sued having jurisdiction of both the
subjct matter and the parties, the objection to the manner of his
appointment goes not to the court's jurisdiction but to his legal
capacity as plaintiff. P. 74.
3. Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322, distinguished. P. 75
. 68 F. (2d) 925, reversed.

292 U. S. 617, to'review the reversal of a
decree in a suit bo ught by McCandless as ancillary receiver. The review here was to be limited to the questions pertaining to the validity of the appointrnent'of the
petitioner as ancillary receiver, and his right as such to
maintain this suit.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Ralph Royall for petitioner.
Mr. Louis B. Eppstein,; with whom Messrs. Ira W.
Hirshfield and Louis J. Altkrug were on the brief, for
respondents.
The order purporting to appoint McCandless ancillary

receiver was absolutely void. There was nothing before

OCTOBER TERM, 1034.

68

Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

the court upon which its judicial power could act, no complainant asserting his right against anyone.
That a mere federal chancery receiver has no extraterritorial power of official action-none that exists by
virtue of his appointment--none that the court appointing him has power to confer-is now the well recognized
law of the land. Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322; Hale v.
Allinson, 188 U. S. 56; Great Western M. & M. Co.. v.
Harris, 198 U. S. 561; Sterrett v. Second Nat. Bank, 248
U. S. 73; Moore v. Mitchell, 281 U. S. 18.
There being no parties before that court, there obviously could be no diversity of citizenship such as is
required to confer jurisdiction upon that court.
Upon the identical question, see: Mercantile Trust
Co. v. Kanawha & 0. Ry. Co., 39 Fed. 337; In re Brant,
96 Fed. 257; Sullivan v. Swain, 96 Fed. 259; Fairview
Fluor Spar & Lead Co. v. Ulrich, 192 Fed. 894; Greene v.
Star Cash & Package Car Co., 99 Fed. 656; Platt v. Philadelphiad Reading R. Co., 54 Fed. 569.
The power of a United States District Court to appoint
ancillary receivers in civil cases may be exercised only in
a pending suit.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
McCandless, a citizen and resident of Pennsylvania,
suing as ancillary receiver of the Duquesne Gas Corporation, appointed by the federal court for southern New
York, brought this suit in that couft. The bill alleged
that he had been appointed- receiver of all the assets of
the Corporation in a consolidated suit in the federal court
for western Pennsylvania originally brought by Frank T.
Harrington against the Duquesne Gas Corporation, and
later consolidated with one brought by the Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company, as trustee under the Corporation's mortgage; that upon his petition as primary

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUb.
67

Opinion of the Court.

receiver filed in the federal court for southern New, YorI,
he had by an order "duly made" been appointed ancil,
lary receiver there; that he had "duly. qualified and is
now acting as such ancillary receiver"; and that th,
" order duly authorized " him as such receiver to bring
this suit. The bill then s~t forth at great length facts
on which it charged that the defendants, or some of them.
acting in a fiduciary relation to the Corporation came into
the possession of funds arising from the sale of its securities and had misappropriated more' than $2,500,000. An
accounting and the recovery of these sums were prayed
for. Furlaud, a citizen and resident of New York, and
three corporations organized under the laws of states
other than Pennsylvania were the defendants. Each filed
an answer. which denied most of the allegations of the
bill.
The case was heard by the District Court on the merits.
on evidence which occupied 217 pages of the original
printed record. That court entered a final decree which
ordered Furlaud and the Kingston Company to pay the
sum of $1,834.640.08 with interest and costs. Those defendants appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, deny.
ing liability. McCandless cross-appealed, claiming the
additional sum of $850,000; and that the other two com.
panies, as to whom the bill had been dismissed by thr
decree, were also liable for the:full amount.
The Court of Appeals, without passing upon the merits
of the controversy, reversed the decree. 68 F. (2d) 925.
It did so. solely on the ground that, under the rule of
Booth v. Clark. 17 How. 322, the "appointment of the
plaintiff as ancillary receiver Was void, and he did not'acquire, in any of the proceeedings, a status to warrant th,,
institution of this suit." Its decision was based upon th
following facts which were shown by the copy of th,.
record of the proceedirfgs in the federal court for south.
ern New York by which McCandless was appointed an.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

cillary receiver, and which he had introduced at the hearing in this cause. The papers in the proceeding for such
appointment were entitled "Frank T. Harrington, domplainant against Duquesne Gas Corporation, Defendant "; but in fact, no independent bill against the Corporation had been filed in the Southern District of New
York by Harrington, or by any other person. The papers
filed consisted merely of a petition by McCandless as primary receiver praying that he be appointed ancillary receiver;. and the order entered thereon. Annexed to his
petition was a copy of the proceedings of the federal
court for western Pennsylvania by which he was appointed primary receiver. The, record does not show that
the Corporation was rePresented whten the appointment
of the ancillary receiver *as made. So far as disclosed
by the record, the order of the District Court for Southern New York appoiinting him, vas made ex parte.
The Court of AppeaL. hela that the legal sufficiency of
the appointment of the plaintif as ancillary receiver had
been put in issue by the answer; and that the plaintiff
had not sustained the burden of establishing its legality.
It ruled that in the federal courts a foreign receiver may
not "-sue outside the district as a matter of comity even
by obtaining permission before suit is commenced";
that "to. permit a foreign receiver .to obtain an ancillary
appointment, on an ex parte application, improperly
avoids the rule denying foreign receivers the right to sue
in the foreign jurisdiction "; that the "right of a receiver to sue in a foreign court cannot be upheld as a
mere incident to the office of a receiver "; and that, since
federal courts for the several districts are foreign to one
another, an ancillary receiver may be appointed only as
an incident of an independent bill.
The importance of reviewing that ruling-in view of
an established practice, said to prevail in perhaps a majority of the state courts, of permitting foreign receivers

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
67

Opinion of the Court.

to sue,' and a common practice, said to obtain in federal
courts, of appointing ancillary receivers on the e parte
application of the primary receiver-was the reason prin'cipally urged for granting the petition for-certiorari. The
order allowing certiorari was. "limited to the questions
pertaining to the validity of the appointment of the petitioner as ancillary receiver, and his right as such to maintain this suit." In the abbreviated record prepared for
use here, only those portions of the original record which
were supposed to bear upon those questions were included.
The rest were omitted in printing pursuant to stipulation.
The briefs filed on the argument of the case in this Court
were directed solely to the question whether the appointment of the ancillary receiver as made was void and open
to collateral attack. But statements of counsel made at
the oral argument in this Court, in answer to enquiries,
and confirmed by examination of the original record, enable us to dispose of the case without passing on the specific question whether in a federal court an ancillary
receiver may be appointed otherwise than as an incident
of an independent bill in equity.
First. The holding of the Court of Appeals that the
legal sufficiency of the appointment of the plaintiff as
ancillary receiver had been put in issue by the answer
rests solely upon the provision in Equity Rule 30 which
declares that a statement in the answer that the defendant
is without knowledge as to facts alleged in the bill "shall
be treated as a denial." I This constructive denial did
1It is stated by petitioner that a foreign equity receiver is permitteO to sue in 21 States; and that the highest courts of 7 other
States have indicated approval of that view.
2 Paragraph Fourth of the amended bill of complainant after reciting the proceedings appointing McCandless primary receiver in the
Western District of Pennsylvania, stated: "that upon petition of the
complainant as such Receiver duly filed in the United States District

Court in and for the Southern District of New York, an order was

72

D)CT(_BER TERM, 1934.
'Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

not suggest that there was a legal objection to the. manner
4 the Appointment or to its validity. The proceedings at
the hearing and later show that there was no intention to
deny the validity of the appointment of the ancillary
receiver; 'nor was it in fact questioned in the District
Court." On the appeal sixty-five alleged errors were asduly made on the 23rd day of March; 1932, by said last mentioned
C6utt' appointing said complainant, Ge6rge W. McCandless, as
Anillary' Receiver of Duquese Oas *Corporation, which last mentioned order duly authorized the complainant, as such Receiver, to
bring:this suit, and the complainant has duly qualified and is acting
as such Ancillary Receiver." Defendant answered: "With respect to
the. allegation of paragraph ' Fourth' of the amended bill of complaint, defendant denies having information sufficient to form a belief
with respect thereto and leaves the complainant to his proof thereof."
3 McCandfes6, after testifying without objection to his appointment
in Pennsylvania; was asked: " Thereacter did you apply for and obtain 4uthority from the, Court. to bring this suit?" Defendants'
c9unsel objected, stating:. "The ground of my objection is that the
order itself is the best evidence of what is contained therein. I might
say at this point that I intend to raise the point in the course of this
trial..that the trustee hi&no authority to. bring the suit in the particular action under which he was appointed." The court directed
that the order be introduced. Thereupon, McCandless was asked:
"Were you thereafter appointed aicillary receiver by" this District
Court? " Without objection, he answered "Yes." Then he was
asked: "Were you there also authorized to bring suit?" Defendants'
counsel then made "-the same objection" which was sustained. The
plaintiff then, without objection, introduced in evidence a copy of the
proceeding appointing, him the ancillary receiver. That record, including a copy of the proceedings in the Pennsylvania suit occupies
35 pages of the printed record in this 'Court.
The nature of the objection which counsel had in mind in asserting
lack of authority in the." trustee" to bring the suit is not clear. It
obviously related equally to the authority conferred by the Pennsylvania court on the primary receiver.
4 The careful opinion of the District Judge (which occupies ]4 pages
oi 'the printed record of this Court) makes no mention of any such
objection or defense.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
67

Opinion of the Court.

signed. One of them was directed to an alleged holding
that the order entered in the Southern District of New
York "constituted a due and valid appointment" of
McCandless as ancillary receiver. But the record does not
show that the District Court did so rule; or that it was
requested to rule on the subject. Moreover, the petitioner stated that the objection to the validity of the
appointment had been made for the first time in the Court
of Appeals; and counsel for the respondent, in his oral
argument in this Court, said that the objection to the
validity of the appointment was not urged by him because he desired to have a decision on the merits.
Second. Under the early practice an objection to the
legal capacity of the plaintiff to sue could be taken only
by plea in abatement. Kane v. Paul, 14 Pet. 33, 41;
Ventress v. Smith, 10 Pet. 161, 168. Now, it may be
taken by plea in bar or by answer. Noonan v. Bradley,
9 Wall. 394, 400-402. But an objection to the plaintiff's
legal capacity to sue will not be entertained if taken, for
the first time, in the appellate court. The rule is of general application and has been applied in the federal appellate courts to a variety of cases. To lack of capacity on
thc ground of infancy; 5 on the ground that plaintiff was
a married woman;' on the ground that the husband was
not entitled to sue in his own name for the death of his
wife;" on the ground that plaintiff, a foreign corporation,
had failed to comply with requirements of the local la*; 8
on the ground that a suit in the name of the United
States was brought without the requisite authority of the
Attorney General.' Under like !.ircumstances the appel5 Paauhau Sugar Plantation Co. v. Palapola, 127 Fed. 920.
6 Buckingham v. Estes, 128 Fed. 584, 585-6.
7 St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Henson, 58 Fed. 531.
Dahl v. Montana Copper Co., 132 U. S. 264.
McLaughlin v. United States, 107 U. S. 526, 528.

74

OCTOBER TERM,

934.

Opinion of the Court.

293 V. S.

late courts have refused-to entertain the objection that
plaintiff was not the real party in interest,0 that the
father was not entitled to sue for the death of his minor
son;" and that the plaintiff, an executor or administrator, had not secured ancillary administration. 2 The reason- for the rule is the broad one that a, defect found lurk-

ing in the record on appeal :may not be allowed to defeat
recovery, where the defect might have been remedied, if
the objection had been seasonably raised in the trial
court. 1'8

Third. The alleged invalidity of the order appointing
McCandless ancillary receiver is a defect of this character.
It is urged that the appointment of an ancillary receiver
can be made only as an incident of an independent bill;
and upon - application of one properly a party thereto;
that here there was nothing before the court, because no
suit was then pending in the Southern District of New
York; that there was neither a plaintiff nor a defendant;
that no relief was prayed; that no process had issued;
that the Corporation did not volyntarily appear; and,
hence, that the court lacked the pbwer to make the appointment, since there was nothing before it upon which
its judicial power could act. We have no occasion to decide whether the contention is well founded. For if the
validity of his appointment as ancillary receiver had been
seasonably urged irn
the trial court, the plaintiff might
have remedied' the defect by causing an independent bill
to be filed; the District 'Court might thereon have entered
an order appointing him ancillary receiver; and, in this
10 Northwestern S. S. Co. v. Cochrau, 191 Fed. 146, 149; Mayor V.
United States ex rel. Helena Waterworks Co., 104 Fed. 113, 115.

STexas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Lacey, 185 Fed. 225, 227; appeal dis-

missed, 229 U. S. 628.
12

Compare McAleer v. Clay County, 38 Fed. 707.; Leahy v.

Haworth,
141 Fed. 850.
19Compare
O'Reilly v. Camp.ell, 116 U. S. 418, 420.

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
67

Opinion of the Court.

cause, the trial court might have permitted the appropriate amendment of the bill of complaint."
The rule that a federal appellate court must, of its own
motion, dismiss the suit if it appears that the trial court
was without jurisdiction, Mansfield, C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v.
Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382, is not applicable to the situation
presented here. In the case at bar the District Court
confessedly had jurisdiction of the subject matter and of
the parties. The objection sustained goes not to the
jurisdiction of the District Court in this suit, but to the
legal capacity of the plaintiff as ancillary receiver.
Fourth. The objection which the Court of Appeals held
fatal to the maintenance of this suit differs in essence
from that sustained in Booth v. Clark. There, the foreign equity receiver suing in the federal court of another
State failed because, having no title to the assets within
the district, he was without a cause of action. He lacked
title because the order appointing him did not, and could
not, transfer to him the assets involved in the litigation.
For that reason, a bill in the federal court for southern
New York brought by the primary receiver, alleged to
have been duly appointed in Pennsylvania and authorized
to bring this suit, would have been bad on demurrer. But
this bill by the ancillary receiver, which alleges that he
had been duly appointed by the federal court for New
York and authorized to bring the suit, would have been
good on demurrer.
Great Western Mining Co. v. Harris, 198 U. S. 561,
576, shows that the rule of Booth v. Clark rests upon
practical considerations. The foreign receiver failed in
the Great Western case although he sued in the name of
the corporation. He failed, as the Court there stated,
because "ev~ry jurisdiction, in which it is sought by
means of a receiver to subject property to the control of
14Compare Coal & Iron Ry. Co. v. Reherd, 204 Fed. 859.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

the court, has the right and power to determine for itself
who the receiver shall be and to make such distribution
of the funds realized within its own jurisdiction as will
protect the rights of local parties interested therein, and
not permit a foreign court to prejudice the rights of local
creditors by removing assets from the local jurisdiction
without an order of the court or its approval as to the
officer who shall act in the holding and distribution of
the property recovered." The nature of the rule of Booth
v. Clark is shown further by the fact that, when by statute the appointment of the receiver operates to transfer
title, the foreign receiver may sue in the federal court
for another State. See Bernheimerv. Converse, 206 U. S.
516; compare Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243;
Clark v. Williard, 292 U. S. 112.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the cause is remanded to it for the determination of the
questions relating to the liability of the defendants decided by the District Court and presented by the appeal
and cross-appeal.
Reversed.
LONG v. ANSELL.
CERTIORARI TO tHE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 18.

Argued October 15, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. A Senator of the United States, while in the District of Columbia
in attendance at a session of the Senate, is immune under Constitutioh, Art. I, ยง 6 , cl.1, from arrest in a civil case but not from the
service of a summons. P. 82.
2. This -constitutional privilege must not be confused with the common law rule that witnesses, suitors and their attorneys, while in
attendance in connection with the conduct of one suit, are immune
from service in another. P. 83.
63 App. D. C. 68; 69 F. (2d) 386, affirmed.

