474

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 78.

Submitted November 9, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. Under the Seventh Amendment, a federal court, finding a verdict
inadequate, is without power to add to it by refusing to grant
the plaintiff a new trial if the defendant will accept an increase
which the court deems sufficient. So held in an action for personal injuries due to negligence.
2. In order to ascertain the scope and meaning of the Seventh
Amendment, resort must be had to the appropriate rules of the
common law established at the time of the adoption of that constitutional provision in 1791. P. 476.
English cases examined on the power of the courts to increase
damages, super visum vulneris, in actions for mayhem; and unn
writ of inquiry, and in actions of debt.
3. Upon an examination of many English authorities, it is concluded that while there was some practice to the contrary in respect of decreasing damages, the established practice and the rule
of the common law, as it existed in England at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution, forbade the court to increase the
amount of damages awarded by a jury in actions sounding in tort
such as the present one, P. 482.
4. The authority exercised by federal courts of denying a motion for
a new trial because of an excessive verdict if the plaintiff will
remit the excess, is embedded in long practice, and has plausible
support in the view that what remains of the recovery was found
by the jury in the sense that it was included in the verdict along
with the unlawful excess, the effect of the remittitur being merely
to lop off an excrescence; but where the verdict is too small, an
increase by the court is a bald addition of something never included
in the verdict. The trial court cannot by assessing an additional
amount of damages with the consent of the defendant only, bring
the constitutional right of the plaintiff to an end'in respect of a
matter of fact which no jury has ever passed upon, either explicitly
or by implication. P. 482.
5. In the discharge of its duty of construing and upholding the Constitution, the Court must ever be alert to prevent the subversion of

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

Opinion of the Court.

fundamental principles through the extension of doubtful precedents by analogy. P. 485.
6. Maintenance of the jury as a fact-finding body is of such importance, and occupies so firm a place in our history and jurisprudence, that any seeming curtailment of the right to a jury
trial should be scrutinized with the utmost care. P. 486:
7. The effect of the Seventh Amendment was to adopt the commonlaw rules of jury trial as they existed in 1791; and these, being in
effect part of the Constitution, can not be altered now under pretense of adapting the common law to altered conditions. P. 487.
70 F. (2d) 558, affirmed.
CERTIORARI * to review the reversal of a judgment
damages in an action for personal injuries, entered
denial of the plaintiff's motion for a new trial, after
plaintiff had declined to accept an increase offered by
court and agreed to by the defendant.

for
on
the
the

Messrs. Leo. M. Harlow and -David H. Fulton submitted for petitioner.
Mr. John G. Palfrey submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action brought by respondent (plaintiff)
against petitioner (defendant) in the federal district
court for the district of Massachusetts to recover dam-

ages for a personal injury resulting from the alleged negligent operation of an automobile on a public highway in
Massachusetts. The jury returned a verdict in favor of
respondent for the sum of $500. Respondent moved for
a new trial on the grounds that the verdict was contrary
to the weight of the evidence, that it was a compromise
verdict, and that the damages allowed were inadequate.
The trial court orderel a new trial upon the last named
* See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

476

.OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

ground, unless petitioner would consenLto an increase of
the damages to the sum of $1500. Respondent's consent
was neither required nor given. Petitibner, however,
consented 'to the increase, and in accordance with the
order of the court a denial of the motion for' new trial
automatically followed. Respondent appealed to the circuit court of appeals, where the judgment was reversed,
the court holding that the conditional order violated the
Seventh Amendment of the Federal Constitutioia in respect of the right'of trial by jury. 70 F. (2d) 558. That
court reicognized the doctrine, frequently stated by this
. court, that in the case of an excessive verdict it is within
the power 'of the trial court to grant defendant's motion
for a new trial unless plaintiff remit the amount deemed
to be excessive, but held that the trial court was without
power to condition the allowance of plaintiff's motion
for a new trial upon the refusal of defendant to consent
to an increase in the amount of damages.
The Seventh Amendment provides:
" In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by
jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall
be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United
States, than. according to the rules of the common law."
Section 269 of the Judicial Code, as amended, U. S. C.
Title 28, § 391; confers upon all federal courts power to
grant new trials "in cases where there has been a trial by
jury, for reasons for which new trials have usually been
'granted in the courts of law . .
In order to ascertain the scope and meaning of the
Seventh Amendment, resort must be had to the appropriate rules of the common law established at the time
of the adoption of that constitutional provision in 1791.
Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S.343, 350; Patton v. United
States, 281 J. S. 276, 288. A careful examination of the
English reports prior to that time fails to disclose any

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

Opinion of the Court.

authoritative decision sustaining the, power of an English
court to increase, either absolutely or conditionally, the
amount fixed by the verdict of a jury in an action at
law, with certain exceptions.
1. In actions for mayhem, there are numerous ancient
cases to be found in the Year Books, and occasional cases
at a somewhat later period, in which the right of the court
to increase damages awarded plaintiff, super visum vulneris, is recognized. We deem it unnecessary to catalogue
or review these cases. Many of thiem are referred to in
2 Bacon's Abridgment (7th ed.) 611, and Sayer's Law of
Damages (1770), p. 173 et seq. The last case called to our
attention or that we have been able to find that recognized
the rule is that of Brown v. Seymur (1742), 1 Wils. 5,
where the court, while conceding its power to increase
damages upon view of the party maimed, refused to oxercise it, holding the damages awarded were sufficient. We
have found no case where the power was exercised affirmatively since Barrton v. Baynes (1733), reported in Barnes
Practice Cases, 153, where the court, upon view of the
injury, increased the damages from £11, 14 s., to £50. The
power of the trial court to increase damages in such cases
was seldom exercised; and it seems quite clear, from an
examinatio'n of the decisions and of the English Abridgments, that the generally approved practice confined its
exercise to the court sitting en banc. Moreover, the application for the increase was made by the plaintifff considered upon a view of his wound, and, when favorably
acted upon, granted absolutely and not as a condition
upon which to base a denial of a new trial. Indeed, the
practice of granting new. trials in such cases did not come
into operation until a later date. In any event, the rule
was obsolete in England at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution; and we are unable to find that it ever was
acted upon or accepted in the colonies, of by any of the
federal or state courts since the adoption of the Constitu-

478

4OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

tion. It was expressly rejected in an early case in South
Carolina. McCoy v. Lemon, 11 Rich. 165. There, the
plaintiff, as a result of an altercation with the defendant,
lost an eye and the use of one thumb. The jury returned
a verdict for $30. The trial court, although conceding the
inadequacy of the damages, held that no court possessed
the power to bring about an increase or decrease of the
amount found by a jury in any other way than by granting a new trial. The Court of Appeals sustained the trial
court. "Not a single case," the appellate court said, "has
been found in any book of American reports in support
of the present motion, notwithstanding the great research
*displayed by counsel. Neither has there been, for a period
of more than a century, any recognition of the rule by
any adjudged case in England to which we have been able
to procure access." After pointing out the jealous regard
of the American people, as evidenced by constitutions and
legislation, for the right of jury trial, the.court said that
the judgment of the jury had been incorporated as an
indispensable element in the judicial administration of
the country; that in all cases sounding in damages, these
damages must be assessed by the jury and not by the court'
independently thereof; and that where the verdict was
excessive or trifling, the remedy was to submit the case
to the judgment of another jury. In Mayne's Treatise on
Damages (9th ed.), the first edition of which appeared in
1856, after referring to the long current of English decisions in respect of the power of the court to inciease damages in mayhem cases, the author (p. 571) said he was
not aware of an instance in which such a jurisdiction had
been exercised in modern times. And see Union Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Botsford, 141 U. S. 250, 252.
2. The power of the court to increase or diminish damages assessed upon a writ of inquiry was likewise upheld;
but this upon the ground that the justices might themselves have awarded damages without the writ, and the

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

Opinion of the Court.

inquisition, therefore, was nothing more than an inquest
for their information. Sayer's Law of Damages, 194;
Beardmore v. Cariington,2 Wils. 244, -248; Brooke's New
Cases, March's Translation, 56-57; 2 Bacon's Abridgement (7th ed.), 612.. But even this rule seems long since
to have fallen into disuse, the more modern practice being to award a new writ of inquiry in all cases in which
the court Would gward a new trial. Maynes Treatise
on Damages, 572, 573,. citing .Chitty's Practice, 14th ed.,
p. 1326.
3. So it was held in some of the old cases that where
the amount of plaintiff's demand was certain, as, for example, in an action of debt, the court had authority to
increase or abridge the verdict of the jury. Mayne's
Treatise on Damages, 571; Sayer's Law of Damages, 177.
In Beardmore v. Carrington, supra, decided in 1764,
the court reviewed the subject and reached the conclusion that the English courts were without power to either
increase or abridge damages in any action for a personal
tort, unless in the exceptional cases just noted.- The decision is most instructive, as a brief quotation Will show.
the italics are in the original.
"It is clear," the court said'at p. 248, "that the practice of granting new trials is modern, and that courts anciently never exercised this power, but in some particular
cases they corrected the damages from evidence laid be.fore them.- There is great difference between cases of
damages which [may] be certainly seen, and such as are
ideal, as between assumpsit, trespass for goods where the
sum and value may be measured, and actions of imprisonment, malicious prosecutiols, slander.and other personal
torts, where the damages are matter of opinion, speculation, ideal; there is also a difference between a principal
verdict of a jury, and a 'vrit of inquiry of damages, the
latter being only an inquest of office to inform the conscience of the court, and which they might have assessed

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

themselves without any inquest at all; only in the case
of maihem, courts have in all ages interposed in that
single instance only; as to the case of the writ of inquiry
in the year-book of H.4, we doubt whether what is said
by the court in that case be right, That they would
abridge the damages unless the plaintiff would releasepart
thereof, because there is not one case to be found in the
year-books wherever the court abridged the damages after
a principal verdict, and this is clear down to the time of
Palmer's Rep. 314, much less have they interposed in
increasing damages, except in the case of maihem; . . ."
Sayer, writing between 1765 and 1770 (Sayer's Law
of Damages, 173) says that the power of increasing or
abridging damages which have been assessed by the jury
"has" not for many years been exercised by courts in
any aclion except in an action for a corporal hurt "; by
which he means, as appears further along, in cases of
mayhem. Mayne, in the treatise already cited says (p.
571) that it was always admitted " that in cases where
the amount of damages was uncertain their assessment
was a matter so peculiarly within the province of the
jury that the Court should not alter it." Recent English
decisions fully confirm this view in respect of the common
law rule as it existed at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution. Thus Mayne (p. 580) says:
" When an excessive verdict is given, it is usual for the
judge to suggest to counsel to agree on a sum, to prevent
the necessity of a new trial. In the absence of agreement
the Court has .nopower to reduce the damages to a reasonable sum instead of ordering a new trial. It would seem
also from what was said in the case in which this was
recently decided, that where the damages are too small,
the Court cannot with the defendant's consent increase
them, if the plaintiff asks for a new trial."
IUt
is true that Belt v. Lawes, L. R. 12 Q, B. Div. 356,
upheld the authority of the cottrt to deny a new trial

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

Opinion of the Court.

upon the consent of the plaintiff to reduce the damages
to an amount which the court would consider not exces-sive had they been given by the jury; and that the Master
of the Rolls in his opinion declared that he was by no
means prepared to say that the. court might not refuse a
new trial if a defendant would agree that the damages
should be larger. But this doctrine was expressly repudiated by the House of Lords in Watt v. Watt, L. R. [1905]
A. C. 115; and Belt v. Lawes was definitely overruled.
In the Watt case, the principal opinion ('pp. 119-120)
pointed out that the notion that the court with the consent of the plaintiff could reduce the amount of the damages probably arose from the fact that in the old cases
the courts had "adopted the somewhat unconstitutional
proceeding of refusing tO give the plaintiff judgment unless he would consent to reduce his claim, to what ought
to be considered reasonable "; that this indirect method
shows that the plaintiff's assent was required; and that,
since the defendant was not likely to refuse his assent to
a proceeding intended for his benefit, the theory of the
cases seems to have been that the right of the court. to
interfere with the verdict depended. upon the assent of
both parties. It was conceded in the opinions delivered to
the House that there had been a certain amount of practice in accordance -with the course complained of, but. in
principle; it was said, this practice was indefensible, and
that no reasoned vindication of it had been .found. The
prevailing opinions in Barbour & Co. v. Deutsche Bank,
L. R. [1919] A. C. 304, while distinguishing the case then
under review, are (as all the opinions are) in full accord
with the decision in the Watt case. Lord lhillimore, in
the course of his opinion (p. 335), characterized that decision as one of inconvenient rigor but nevertheless unimpeachable and logical. The principle established, he said,
was this:

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

"Where damages are at large and the Court of Appeal is
of opinion that the sum awarded is so unreasonable as to
show that the jury has not approached the subject in a
proper judicial temper, has admitted considerations which
it ought not to have admitted, or rejected or neglected
considerations which it ought to have applied, it is the
right of the party aggrieved to have a new trial. He is
not to be put off by the Court saying that it will form its
opinion as to the proper sum to be awarded, and reduce or
enlarge th'e damages accordingly. He is entitled to an assessment by a jury which acts properly. Ie is not to be
put off by a composite decision, or I might describe it as a
resultant of two imperfect forces-an assessment partly
made by a jury which has acted improperly and partly by
a tribunal which has no power to assess:"
From the foregoing and from many other English authorities which we have examined but deem it unnecessary to cite, we conclude that, while there was some practice to the contrary in respect of decreasing damages, the
established practice and the rule of the common law, as
it existed in England at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution, forbade the court to increase the amount of
damages awarded by a jury in actions such as that here
under consideration.
We could well rest this opinion upon that conclusion,
were it not for the contention that our federal courts
fron a very early day have upheld the authority of a
trial court to deny a motion for new trial because damages
were found to be excessive, if plaintiff would consent
to remit the excessive amount, and that this holding requires us to recognize a similar rule in respect of increasing damages found to be grossly inadequate. There is
a decision by Mr. Justice Story, sitting on circuit, authorizing such a remittitur, as early as 1822. Blunt v.
Little, 3 Mason 102. There, the jury returned a verdict

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

Opinion of the Court.

for $2,000 damages, suffered as a result of a malicious
arrest. Defendant moved for a new trial on the ground
that the damages were excessive. The court asserted its
power to grant a new trial upon'that ground, but directed
that the cause should be submitted to another jury unless
plaintiff was willing to remit $500 of the damages. This
view of the matter was accepted by this Court in Northern
Pacific R. Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642, 646-7, and has
been many times reiterated. See, for example, Arkansas
Cattle Co. v. Mann, 130 U. S. 69, 73; Kennon v. Gilmer,
131 U. S. 22, 29; Koenigsberger v. Richmond Sibver
Mining Co., 158 U. S. 41, 52; German Alliance Ins. Co. v.
Hale, 219 U. S. 307, 312; Gila Valley, G. & N. Ry. Co. v.
Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 103-5.
Since the decision of Mr. Justice Story in 1822, this
court has neveS expressed doubt in respect of the rule,
and it has been uniformly applied by the lower federal
courts. It is, however, remarkable that in none of these
cases was there any real attempt to ascertain the common
law. rule on the sdibject. Mr. Justice Story, in the Blunt
case, cited two English cases antedating the Constitution
in support simply of his conclusion that the court had
power to grant a new trial foe excessive damages, and
thereupon announced without more that unless the plaintiff should be willing to remit $500 of his damages, the
cause would be submitted to another jury. For the latter
conclusion, no authority whatever was cited. The plaintiff remitted the amount, and the motion was overruled.
The opinion in the Herbert case was delivered by Mr.
Justice Field. Upon. the question now under consideration, the opinion does no more than declare that the exaction, as a condition of refusing a new trial, that plaintiff should remit a portion of the amount awarded by
thp verdict, was a matter within the discretion of the
court, in support of which two American state cases and

OCTOBER. TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court,

293 U. S.

the Blunt case are cited. The common law in respect
of the matter is not referred to. The state cases cited are
*equally silent in respect of the common law rule.
* The nearest approach to a reasoned opinion on the
subject inainy of the decisions is found in Arkansas Cattle Co. v. Mann, supra. In that opinion, the court states
the contention to be that to make the decision of the
motion for new trial depend upon a remission of part of
the verdict.is in effect a re3xainination by the court in a
mode not known at the connon law of facts tried by the
jury, and therefore a violation of the Seventh Amendment. The court decided against this contention upon
the authority of the'Blunt case, the Herbert case, and
cettain American state decisions. English cases were referred to only upon the point that the court had authority to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial where
the damages are palpably or outrageously excessive. No
attempt was* made to seek the common law rule, in respect of the precise contention which was made, by an
examination of the English decisions or of the English
practice prior to the adoption of the Constitution.
In the last analysis, the sole support for the decisions of
this court and that of Mr. Justice Story, so far as they
are pertinent to cases like that now in haid, must rest
upon the practice of some of the English judges-a practice which has been-condemned as opposed to the principles of the common law by every reasoned English decision, both before and .after the adoption of the Federal
Constitution, which we have been able to find.
In the light reflected by the foregoing review, of the
English decisions and commentators, it, therefore, may
be that if the question of remittitur were now before us
for the first time, it would be decided otherwise. But,
first announced by Mr. Justice Story in 1822, the doctrine has been accepted as the law for more than a hundred years and uniformly applied in the federal courts

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

Opinion of the Court.

during that time. And, as it finds some support in the
practice of the English courts prior to the adoption of
the Constitution, weimay assume that in a case involving
a remittitur, which this case does not, the doctrine would
not be reconsidered or disturbed at this late day.
Nevertheless, this court in a very special sense is
charged with the duty of construing and upholding the
Constitution; and in the discharge of that important duty,
it ever must be alert to see that a doubtful precedent be
not extended by mere analogy to a different case if the
result will be to weaken or subvert what it conceives to
be a principle of the fundamental law of the land. Coin,
pare Judson v. Gray, 11 N. Y. 408, 412.
That rule applies with peculiar force to the present case,
since, accepting Arkansas Cattle Co.. v. Mann, supra, and
like cases, as settling the precise question there involved,
they do not conclude the question here presented. That
is to- say, the power to conditionally increase the verdict
of a jury does not,f 6 llow as a necessary corollary from the
power to conditionally decrease it. As the court below
correctly pointed qt, in. the case of a conditional -remittitur, "a jury has 'already awarded a sum in excess of that
fixed by the court as the basis for the remittitur, which at
least finds some support in the early English practice;
while in the second case, no jury has ever passed on the increas6d amount, and the practice has no precedent according to the rules of the common law."
The right of trial by jury is of ancient origin, characterized by Blackstone as " the glory of the English law" and
" the most transcendent privilege which any subject can
enjoy " (Bk. 3, p. 379); and, as Justice Story said (2 Story
on the Constitution, § 1779), " . . . the Constitution
would have been justly obnoxious to the most conclusive
objection if it had not recognized and confirmed it.in the
most solemn terms." With, perhaps, some .qceptions,
trial by jury has always been ,ad still is, geriefally,re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

garded as the normal and preferable mode of disposing of
issues of fact in civil cases at law as well as in criminal
cases. Maintenance of the jury as a fact-finding body is
of such importance and occupies so firm a place in our history and jurisprudence that any seeming curtailment of
the right to a jury trial should be scrutinized with the
utmost care. Compare Patton v. United States, 281 U. S.
276, 312.
The controlling distinction between the power of the
court and that of the jury is that the former is the power
to determine the law and the latter to determine the facts.
In dealing with questions like the one now under consideration, that distinction must be borne steadily in mind.
Where the verdict returned by w jury is palpably and
grossly inadequate or excessive, it should not, be permitted
to stand; but, in that event, both parties remain entitled,
as they were entitled in the first instance, to have a jury
properly determine the question of liability and the extent
of the injury by an assessment of damages. Both are
questions of fact. Where the verdict is excessive, the
practice of substituting a remission of the excess for a-new
trial is not without plausible support in the view that
what remains is included in the verdict *along with the
unlawful excess-in that sense that it has been found by
the jury"-and that the remittitur has the effect of merely
lopping off an excrescence. But where the verdict is too
small, an increase by the court is a bald addition of something which in no sense can be said to be included in the
verdict. When, therefore, the trial court here found that
the damages awarded by the jury were so inadequate as
to entitle plaintff to a new trial, how can it be held, with
any semblance of reason, that that court, with the consent
of the defendant only, may, by assessing an additional
amount of damages, bring the constitutional right of the
plaintiff to a jury trial to an end in respect of a matter of
fact which no jury has ever passed upon either explicitly

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

Opinion of the Court.

or by implication? To so hold is obviously to compel the
plaintiff to forego his constitutional right to the verdict
of a jury and accept " an assessment partly made by a
jury which has acted improperly, and partly by a tribunal
which has no power to assess."
It is said that the common law is susceptible of growth
and adaptation to new circumstances and situations, and
that the courts have power to declare and effectuate what
is the present rule in respect of a given subject without
regard to the old rule; and some attempt is made to apply
that principle here. The common law is not immutable,
but flexible, and upon its own principles adapts itself to
varying conditions. Funk v. United States, 290 U. S.
371. But here, we are dealing with a constitutional provision which has in effect adopted the rules of the common law, in respect of trial by jury, as these rules existed
in 1791. To effectuate any change in these rules is not
to deal with the common law, qua common law, but to
alter the Constitution. The distinction is fundamental,
and has been clearly pointed out by Judge Cooley in 1
Const. Limitations, 8th ed., 124.
It is worthy of note that while for more than a century
the federal courts have followed the approved practice
of qonditioning the allowance of a new trial on the consent of plaintiff to remit excessive damages, no federal
court, so far as we can discover, has ever undertaken
similarly to increase the damages, although there are
numerous cases where motions for new trial have been
made and granted on the ground that. the verdict was
inadequate. See, for example, Carter v. Wells, Fargo &
Co., 64 Fed. 1005; Usher v. Scranton Ry. Co.. 132 Fed.
405; Glenwood Irr. Co. v. Vallery, 248 Fed. 483; United
Press Assns. V. National Newspapers Assn., 254 Fed. 284;
Stetson v. Stindt, 279 Fed. 209. This, it is true, is but
negative evidence; but it.is negative evidence of more
than ordinary value. For, when we consider that during

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE,' J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

the great length of time menti6ned, the federal courts were
constantly applying the rule in respect of the remission
of excessive damages, the circumstance that-the practice
here in question in respect of inadequate damages was
never followed or, apparently, its approval even suggested, seems highly significant as indicating a lack of
judicial belief in the existence of the power.
State decisions in respect of the matter have been
brought to our attention and have received consideration.
They embody rulings both ways. A review of them we
think would serve no useful purpose.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, dissenting.

I think the judgment should be reversed.
What the trial court has done is to deny a motion for
a new trial, for what seemed to it a good reason: that the
defendant had given his binding consent to an increased
recovery, which the court thought to be adequate, and
thus to remove any substantial ground for awarding a
new trial. In denying the motion the trial judge relied.
on two rules of the common law which have received complete acceptance for centuries. One is that the court has
power to act upon a motion to set aside the verdict of
a jury because inadequate or excessive, and in its discretion to grant or deny a new. trial. Railroad Co. v.
Fralof, 100 U S. 24, 31; Wilson v. Everett, 139 U. S.
616, 621; Lincoln v. Power, 151 U. S. 436, 438. The
other, which is implicit in the first, is that it has power to
determine, as a matter of law, the upper and lower limits
within which recovery by a plaintiff will be permitted,
and the authority to set aside a verdict which is not
within those limits. Arkansas Valley Land & Cattle Ca.
v. Mann, 139 U. S. 69, 74; cf. Southern Ry., Co. v. Bennett, 233 U. S. 80, 87.

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

SToN., J., dissenting.

As a corollary to these rules is the further one of the

common law, long accepted in. the federal courts, that
the exercise of judicial discretion in denying a motion for
a new trial, on the ground that the verdict is too small
or too large, is not subject to review on writ of error or
appeal. Railroad Co. v. Fraloif, supra, 31; Wabash Ry.
Co. v. McDaniels, 107 U. S. 454, 456; Fitzgerald & Mallory Construction Co. v. Fitzgerald, 137 U. S. 98, 113;
JVilson'v. Everett, supra, 621; Lincoln v. Power, supra,'
438; Luckenbach S. S. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S.
533, 540. This is but a special application of the more
general rule that an appellate court will not reexamine
the facts which induced the trial court to grant or deny
a new trial.' Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheat. 213, 220; The
Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440, 445; Railroad Co. v. Fraloff,
supra, 31; Terre Haute & Indiana Ry. Co. v. Struble,
109 U. S. 381, 384, 385; Fishburn v. Chicago, M. & St.
P. Ry. Co., 137 U. S. 60, 61; Ayers v. Watson, 137 U. S.
584, 597; Wilson v. Everett, supra, 621; Luckenbach S. S.
Co. v. United States, supra, 540.
If the effect of what is now decided is to liberaliz the
traditional common law practice so that the denial of a
motion for a new trial, made on the ground that. the verdict is excessive or inadequate, is subject to some sort of
appellate review, the change need not be regarded as unwelcome, even though no statute has authorized it. Bt
the question remains whether, in exercising this power
of review, the trial judge should be reversed.
The decision of the Court. is rested on the ground that
the Constitution prohibits the trial judge from adopting
'The power of the English appellate courts to review such action
has been enlarged by statute, and the motion itself must be made to
the Court of Appeal. Supreme Court of Judicature Act, 1875, 38 &
39 Vict., c. 77, Order 58; Rules of the Supreme Court of Judicature,
Order 39. See Fairmount Glass Works v. Cub Fork Coal Co., 287
U. S.474, 482, note 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934,
STON.,

J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

the practice. Accordingly, I address myself to the question of power without stopping to comment on the generally recognized advantages of the practice as'a means
of securing substantial justice and bringing the litigation
to a more speedy and economical conclusion than would
be possible by a new trial to a jury, or the extent to which
that or analogous practice has been adopted and found
useful in the courts of the several states. See Correction
of Damage Verdicts by Remittitur and Additur, 44 Yale
Law J. 318. The question is a narrow one: whether there
is anything in the Seventh Amendment or in the rules
of the common law, as it had developed before the adoption of the Amendment, which would require a federal
appellate court to set aside the denial of the motion merely
because the particular reasons which moved the trial judge
to deny it are not shown to have similarly moved any
English judge before 1791.
The Seventh Amendment commands that "in suits at
common law," the right to trial by jury shall be preserved
and that " no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined by any court of the United States, than according to the rules of the common law." Such a provision
of*a great instrument of government, intended to endure
for unnumbered generations, is concerned with substance
and not with form. There is nothing in its history or
language to suggest that the Amendment.had any purpose but to preserve the essentials of the jury trial as it
was known to the common law before the adoption of the
Constitution. For that reason this Court has often refused to construe it as intended to perpetuate in changeless form the minutiae of trial practice as it ekisted in the
English courts in 1791. From the beginning, its language
has been regarded as but subservient to the single purpose
of the Amendment, to preserve the essentials of the jury

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

STONE,

J., dissenting.

trial in actions at law, serving to distinguish them from
suits in equity and admiralty, see Parsons v. Bedford,
3 Pet. 433, 446, and to safeguard the jury's function from
any encroachment which the common law did not permit.
Thus interpreted, the Seventh Amendment guarantees
that suitors in actions at law shall have the benefits of
trial of issues of fact by a jury, but it does not prescribe
any particular procedure by which these benefits shall be
obtained, or forbid any which does not curtail the function of the jury to decide questions of fact as it did before
the adoption of the Amendment. It does not restrict the
court's control of the jury's verdict, as it had previously
been exercised, and it does not confine the trial judge,
in determining what issues are for the jury and what for
the court, to the particular forms of trial practice in
vogue in 1791.
Thus this Court has held that a federal court, without
the consent of the parties, may constitutionally appoint
auditors to hear testimony, examine books and accounts
and frame and report upon issues of fact, as an aid to
the jury in arriving at its verdict, Ex parte Peterson, 253
U. S. 300; it may require both a general and a special
verdict and set aside the general verdict for the plaintiff
and direct a verdict for the defendant on the basis of
the facts specially found, Walker v. New Mexico &
Southern Pacific R. Co., 165 U. S. 593; and it may accept
so much of the verdict as declares that the plaintiff is
entitled to recover, and set aside so much of it as fixes
the amount of the damages, and order a. new trial of that
issue alone, Gasoline Products Co. v. Champlin Refining
Co., 283 U. S. 494. Yet none of these procedures was
known to the common law. In fact, the very practice,
so firmly imbedded in federal procedure, of making a
motion for a new trial directly to the trial judge, instead

492

OCTOBER TERM; 1934.
SToN,' J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

of to the court en banc, wAs never adopted by the
common law.2 But this Court has found in the Seventh
Amendment no bar to the adoption by the federal courts
of these novel methods of dealing with the verdict of a
jury, for they left unimpaired the function of the jury,
to decide issues of fact, which it had exercised before the
adoption of the Amendment. Compare Nashville, C. &
St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 264.
If we apply that test to the present case it is evident
that the jury's function has not been curtailed. After the
issues of fact had been submitted to the jury, and its
verdict taken, the trial judge was authorized to entertain
.a motion to set aside the verdict and, as an incident, to
determine the legal limits of a proper verdict. A denial
of the motion out of hand, however inadequate the verdict,
was not an encroachment upon the province of the jury
as the common law defined it. It would seem not ,to be
any the more so here because the'exercise of the judge's
discretion was affected by his knowledge of the fact that
A proper recovery had been assured to the plaintiff by the
consent of the defendant. Thus the plaintiff has suffered
no infringement of a right by the denial of his motion.
The defendant has suffered none because he has con-i
'In England, before the adoption of the Seventh Amendment, the
motion was made not to the trial judge but to the court sitting en
banc. Blackstone's Commentaries, v. .3, p. 391; Tidd's Practice,
v. 2, pp. 819-821. By the Supreme Court of Judicature Act, 1875,
38 & 39 Vict., c. 77, Order 58, see Order 39 of Rules of Supreme Court

of Judicature, the motion was required to be made to the Court of
Appeal, from whose decision an appeal might be taken to the House
of Lords.
The original organization of the federal courts was capable of use
in such a fashion that the motion could be made to the circuit court,
something in the nature of a court en banc, but no such practice
developed. Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, §§ 4, 17, 1 Stat. 73, 74, 83;
Hinton, Power of Federal Appellate Court to Review Ruling on

Motion for New Trial, 1 Univ. of Chicago L. Rev. 111, 113.

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

STONE,

J., dissenting.

sented to the increased recovery, of which he does not
complain.
It is upon these grounds, as well as the further one
that the denial of a new trial may not be reviewed upon
appeal, see Arkansas Valley Land & Cattle Co. v. Mann,
supra,75, that this Court has upheld the practice of the remittitur. Recognized more than a century ago by Mr. Justice Story in Blunt v. Little, 3 Mason 102, 107, it has been
consistently used in the federal trial courts, and as consistently upheld in this Court. Northern Pacific R. Co.
v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642, 646, 647; Arkansas Valley Land
& Cattle Co. v. Mann, supra, 72-76; Kennon v. Gilmer,
131 U. S. 22, 29, 30; Clark v. Sidway, 142 U. S. 682, 690;
Lewis v. Wilson, 151 U. S. 551, 555; Koenigsberger v.
Richmond Silver Mining Co., -158 U. S. 41, 52; German
Alliance Ins. Co. v. Hale, 219 U. S. 307, 312; cf. Gila
Valley, G. & N. Ry. Co. v. Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 104, 105;
Tevis v. Ryan, 233 U. S. 273, 290; Union Pacific R. Co.
v. Hadley, 246 U. S. 330, 334. In Arkansas Valley Land
& Cattle Co. v. Mann, supra, at page 74, in considering
at length the constitutional question, this Court said:
"The practice which this court approved in Northern
Pacific Railroad v. Herbert is sustained by sound reason,
and does not, in any just sense, impair the constitutional
right of trial by jury. It cannot be disputed that the
court is within the limits of its authority when it sets
aside the verdict of the juy and grants a new trial where
the damages are palpably or outrageously excessive.
Ducker v: Wood, 1 T. R. 277; Hewlett. v. Crutchley, 5
Taunt. 277, 281; authorities cited in Sedgwick on Damages, 6th ed. 762, note 2. But, in considering whether a
new trial should be granted upon that ground, the court
necessarily determines, in its own mind, whether a verdict
for a given amount would be liable to the objection that
it was excessive. The authority of the court to determine
whether the damages are excessive implies authority to

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONn,

J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

determine when they are not of that character.. To indicate before the passing upon the motion for a new trial,
its opinion that the damages are excessive, and to-require
a plaintiff to submit to anew trial, unless, by remitting a
part of the verdict he removes that objection, certainly
does not deprive the defendant of any right, or give him
any cause for complaint."
See also Kennon v. Gilmer, supra, 29; Clark v. Sidway,
supra, 690; Gila Valley, G. & N. Ry. Co. v. Hall, supra,
104; Belt v. Lawes,:L. R. 12 Q. B. D. 356, 358.
All that was there said is equally applicable to the
present denial-of a motion to set aside the verdict as inadequate. The defendant, who has formally consented
to pay the increased amount, cannot complain. The plaintiff has suffered no denial of a right because the court,
staying its hand, has left the verdict undisturbed, as it
lawfully might have done if the defendant had refused
to pay ,more than the verdict. The fact that in one case
the recovery is less than the amount of the verdict, and
that in the other it is greater, would seem to be without
significance. For in neither does the jury return a verdict
for the amount actually recovered, and in both the amount
of. recovery was fixed, not by the verdict but by the consent of the party resisting the motion for a new trial.
The question with which we are now concerned-what
considerations shall govern an appellate review of this
discretionary action of the trial court-is one unknown to
the common law, which provided for no such review. We
are afforded but a meager and fragmentary guide if our
review is to be controlled by the Seventh Amendment,
read as though it had incorporated by reference the particular details of English trial practice exhibited by the
law books in1791.. We know that as late as the middle of
the eighteenth century the English courts, by directing an
increase of the judgment where the verdict was thought
to be inadequate, had exercised an extraordinary measure

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

STONE,

J., dissenting.

of control over the verdict of the jury in cases of mayhem and battery; and that the practice of denying a new
trial upon a remittitur had received some recognition in
the English courts. Belt v. Lawes, supra, 359; Watt v.
Watt, [1905] A. C. 1.15, 122. But in no recorded case does
it appear that any English judge had considered the possibility of denying a new trial where the defendant had
consented to increase the amount of recovery.y
If our only guide is to be this scant record of the practice
of controlling the jury's verdict, however fragmentary the
state of its development, at this period, and if We must
deny, any possibility of change, development or improvement, -then it must be admitted that search of the legal
scrap heap of a century and a half ago may commit us
to the incongruous position in which we are left by the
present decision: a federal trial court may deny a motion
for a new trial, where the plaintiff consents to decrease the
judgment to a proper amount, but it is powerless to deny
the motion if its judgment is influenced by the defendant's
consent to a 6omparable increase in the recovery.
But I cannot agree that we are circumscribed by so
narrow and rigid a conception of the common law. The
Judiciary Act- of 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73,' which impliedly
adopted the common law rules of evidence for criminal
trials in federal courts, and which gave to the federal
courts jurisdiction of equity as it had then been developed
in England, and the state constitutions which adopted the
common law as affording rules for judicial decision, have
never been construed as accepting only those rules which
could then be found in the English precedents. When the
Constitution was adopted, the common law was something
more than a miscellaneous collection of precedents. It
was a system, then a growth of some five centuries, tb
guide judicial decision. One of its principles, certainly as
important as any other, and that which assured the pos'sibility of the continuing vitality and usefulness of the

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE, J., discenting.

293 U. S.

system, was its capacity for growth and development, and
its adaptability to every new situation to which it might
be. needful to apply it. "'This flexibility and capacity for
growth and adaptation is," as the Court declared in Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 530, " the peculiar boast
and excellence of the common law." See also Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 385-387; Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78, 101,; Funk v. United States, 290 U. S. 371,
380-386.
This Court has recently had occasion to point out that
the common law rules, governing the admissibility of
evidence and the competency of witnesses in the federal
courts, are not the particular rules which were in force in
1791, but are those rules adapted to present day conditions, "in accordance with present day standards of wisdom and justice rather than in accordance with some outworn and antiquated rule of the past." Funk v. United
States, supra, 382; see also Wolfie v. United States, 291
U. S. 7, 12; Holden v. Hardy, supra, 385-387.
The common law is not one system when it, or some
part of it, is adopted by the Judiciary Act, and another
if it is taken over by the Seventh Amendment. If this
Court could thus, in conformity to common law, substitute a new rule for an old one because it was more
consonant with modern conditions, it would seem that no
violence would be done to the common law by extending
the principle of the remittitur to the case where the verdict is inadequate, although the common law had made
no rule on the subject in 1791; and that we could not
rightly refuse to apply to either the principle of general
application, that it is competent to exercise a discretionary power to grant or withhold relief in any way which is'
uot unjust. See Belt v. Lawes, supra, 358.
Appellate federal courts, although without common law
precedent, have not hesitated to resort to the remittitur
where, by its use, the necessity of a new trial could justly

DIMICK v. SCHIEDT.
474

STONE,

J.,- dis-enting.

be avoided. Bank of Kentucky v. Ashley, 2 Pet. 327, 329;
Phillips & Colby Construction Co. v. Seymour, 91 U. S.
646, 656; Hopkins v. Orr, 124 U. S. 510, 514; Washington
& Georgetown R. Co. v. Harmon, 147 U. S. 571, 590;.
Hansen v. Boyd, 161 U. S. 397, 411, 412. The trial judge
who denies a; motion for a new trial, because the plaintiff
has consented to reduce or a defendant has consented
to increase the amount of the recovery, does na more than
when, sitting in equity, he withholds relief upon the compliance with a condition, the performance of which will
do substantial justice. See Harrisonville v. Dickey Clay
Co., 289 U. S. 334, 338.
To me it seems an indefensible anachronism for the law
to reject the like principle of decision, in reviewing on
appeal denials of motions for new trials, where the plaintiff has consented to decrease the judgment or the defendant has consented to increase it by the proper amount,.or
to apply it in the one case and reject it in the other. -It
is difficult to see upon what principle the denial of a motion for a new trial, which for centuries has been regarded
as so much a matter of discretion that it is not disturbed
when its only support may be a bad or inadequate reason,
may nevertheless be set aside on appeal when it is supported by a good one: that the defendant has bound himself to pay an increased amount of damages which the
court judicially knows is within the limits of a proper
verdict.
On this question the decisions of the English courts
since the adoption of the Constitution do not have the
force of precedents; they are of weight only so far as
they are persuasive. It is enough to say that when in
1905 the House of Lords in Watt v. Watt, supra, overruled Belt v. Lawes, supra, and terminated the practice
of the remittitur, it did not comment on the fact that it
was reviewing an exercise of discretion in the denial of a
new trial. So far as appears, it did not consider, in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

light of any legal analogy, whether the denial of the
motion because of the plaintiff's consent could be deemed
in any proper sense an abuse of discretion.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

concur.

UNITED STATES v. SPAULDING:
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 161.

Argued November 15, 1934.--Decided January 7, 1935.

1. In an action on a lapsed war risk insurance policy insuring only
against " total permanent disability," the evidence established that,
since a time prior to the lapse, the insured, as the result of chronic
and incurable disorders, was partially disabled, and, at times and
during periods of substantial duration, totally disabled; but that,
in the year next following the lapse he was officially examined and
found fit for service as an air pilot, and that during the larger
part of more than eight years between the lapse and the commencement of his suit, he was able to work, and actually did so, and
earned substantial compensation. Held:
(1) That, in view of these facts, his testimony that under stress

of need he worked when not able, cannot be given weight, for he
is not entitled to recover unless he became totally disabled before
the lapse and thereafter remained in that condition. P. 505.
(2) Since he was not totally disabled when found fit for air
service and while performing work admittedly done, total disability occurring. while the policy was in force was temporary and
not permanent. P. 506.
1 (3) The fact that, notwithstanding his need of money for the
support of his family and himself, he failed for nearly nine years
to sue for the insurance money now claimed, strongly suggeats that
he had not suffered total permanent disability covered by tl e
policy. Lumbra v. United States, 290 VI.S.551, 560. And that
suggestion is emphasized by the fact that he procured examination
for reinstatement of his insurance. Id.
(4) The opinions of medical witnesses that work impaired his
health and tended to shorten his life had no substantial bearing

