OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

McCULLOUGH, EXECUTRIX, v. 'SMITH, ADMJNISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 72.

Argued November 9, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. Unpaid instalments which accru6d under a war risk insurance policy to the father and mother of the insured as successive beneficiaries after his death, belonged, when they had both died, to the
respective estates of the parents. P. 231.
2. Upon-the death of the insured followed by the deaths of the beneficiaries, the commuted value of the war risk insurance, deducting
instalments that accrued to the beneficaries while living, is payable
to the estate of the insured. P. 231.
206 N. C. 102; 173 S. E. 49, reversed.
. CERTIORARI

*

to review a judgment rendered on the

petition of the- administrator of a, deceased soldier to be
directed how war risk insurance funds, awarded to the
soldier's estate, should be distributed as between the
estates of his parents.
Mr. J. Howard McLain, with whom Mr. John M. Robinson was on the brief, for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
While in the military service of the United States,
Moses Reid. took out a War Risk Insurance policy for
$10,000 and designated his father snd mother as beneficiaries. He died intestate August 23, 1920, leaving no
wife, child or descendant. The father died November 22,
1926, intestate; the mother February 22, 1932. Her will
designated an executr'x.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

McCULLOUGH v. SMITH,
228

Opinion of the Court.

No payment of any kind was made under the policy
prior to the mother's death. Thereafter the Bureau of
War-Risk Insurance determined that during hisr life the
insured became entitled to monthly disability payments
aggregating $862.50. and caused this sum to be paid to
his administrator. Also that while alive the father, as
beneficiary, became entited to installnents aggregating
$2,127.50, which was paid to his administrator. Further
that during her life the mother, as beneficiary, became
entitled to payments aggregating $3,938.75. This sum
was paid to her executrix. Finally it ruled that the commuted value of unpaid monthly installments under the
policy payable after the mother's death amounted to
$5,768; and the assured's administrator collected this.
The only funds received by him were from payments
under the policy as above stated.
This proceeding, with proper parties, was duly begun
by the -assured's administrator in the Superior Court of
Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. It sought binding
direction concerning distribution of funds on hand and
presented no other question.
The trial court ruled that at the soldier's death his
father and mother became sole distributees of his estate;
" that as to the $862.50 which was due the insured prior
to his death, it belongs to the estate of the father and the
estate of the mother equally; that as to the $5,768 received
by him [the. administrator] as the commuted value of
the unpaid portion of the policy after the death of the
beneficiaries, it should be paid to-the estate of the father
and the estate of the mother respectively in such sums
as are required to bring the said estates to an equal sum
after the sums paid into each by the Bureau of War Risk
Insurance, and the half of the $862.50 has been added
together; the intention of this finding being to make the
estate of the father and the estate of the mother exactly
.equal finally."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U.S.

Upon appeal the Supreme Court of North Carolina
affirmed. It said [206 N. C. 102; 173 S. E. 49]:
" When Moses Reid died, his distributees were his
father, Adolphus Reid, and his mother, Ida Reid. Both
were living. The statute cast upon each one-half of the
personal property of deceased. Thereupon the right of
property to such one-half immediately vested. C. S.,
137. subd. 6.
" Neither received as beneficiary in the war risk insurance policy any installment from the government during his or her life. Therefore the whole fund in contemplation of law is fiow assets of the estate of the dead soldier, to he distrihuted immediately to the estates of his
father and mother. The fact that one beneficiary lived
longer than the other, and hence entitled to receive more
money in installments from the government, has nothing
to do with the riglTt of property as distributee. The intestate law of this State pegged that right at the death
of the soldier."
In Sibgleton v. Cheek, 284 U. S. 493, where the circumstances were similar to those presented here, nothing was paid under the policy until after the death of the
wife, the designated beneficiary. We considered the applicable provisions of ยง 303, World War Veterans' Act of
1924 as amended March 4. 1925. c. 553, 43 Stat. 1302,
1310 (38 U. S. C.. ยง 514), declared them retroactive to
October 6, 1917, and held that installments which accrued
before the death of the insured, and the commuted value
of those accruing subsequent to the beneficiary's death,
belonged to the insured's estate for distribution as of the
moment of his death. Benefits accrued in favor of but
not received by the widow during herjbife had been paid
to her administrator. No suggestion was made that other
disposition would have been proper. At page 497 the
opinion says:

McCULLOUGIH v. SMITtI.
22S

Oihnion of the Court.

" By that amendment, [March 4.1925*] the rule, which,
upon the happening of the contingencies nalned in the
prior acts, limited the benefit of the unpaid installments
to persons within the designated class of permit tees, was
abandoned, and 'the estate of the insured ' was wholly
substituted as the payee. All installments, whether accruing before the death of the insured or after the death
of the beneficiary named in the certificate of insurance, as
a result, became assets of the estate of the insured as of
the instant of his death, to be distributed to the heirs of
the insured in accordance with the intestacy laws of the
state of his residence, such heirs to be determined as of
the date of his death, and not as of the date of the death
of the beneficiary."
Considering what was said in United States v. Worley,
281 U. S. 339, 341, and in Sinytleton v. Cheek, supra, together with the language and evident purpose of the Act
of 1924 as amended, we think it clear enough that instalhnents which accrued in favor of the father and
mother of Reid as beneficiaries during their lives became
the property of their respective estates. Also that installnents which accrued to the assured during his lifetime, and the commuted value of the installments payable
subsequent to the mother's death, became the property of
his estate.
The court below erred in directing that the installments
which accrued to the beneficiaries-father and mother* " If no person within the permitted class be designated as beneficiary for yearly renewable term insurance by the insured either in
his lifetime or by his last will and testament or if the designated beneficiary does not survive the insured or survives the insured and dies
prior to receiving all of the two hundred and forty installments or all
such as are payable and applicable, there shall be paid to the estate of
the insured the present value of the monthly installments thereafter
payable, said value to be computed as of date of last payment made
under any existing award." 43 Stat. 1310.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
293 U. S.

Syllabus.

during their lives should be treated as parts of the estate
of the insured. See Reivich v. United States, 25 F. (2d)
670, 672; United States v. Woolen, 25 F. (2d) 673, 676.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. ET AL. V.

MATTHEWS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND.

No. 441.

Argued November 12, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

A Maryland mortgage contained the assent of the mortgagor to the
passing of a decree for a sale of the property in accordance with
designated statutory provisions " or any amendments or additions
thereto." The effect would have been to permit the mortgagee,
or any owner of any fraction of the mortgage interest, to obtain a
decree in a summary proceeding for a sale of the property in, the
event of default or forfeiture, through the medium of a trustee to
be appointed by such decree. Before such proceedings were attempted, a new law was passed go amending the statute as to suspend the summary remedy during a period, of declared emergency
unless the application for the decree were Made or concurred in by
the record holders of not less than 25% of the entire unpaid mortgage debt.
As applied to a holder of less than this percentage, held:.
1. The amendment does not offend the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 236.
2. Where the contract clause is invoked, this Court must determine for itself the nature and effect of the alleged agreement and
whether this has been impaired. P. 236.
3. The assent in the mortgage contract embraced not only the
statutory provisions therein designated and such amendments or
additions as might have been made prior to the execution of the
mortgage (of which in fact there were none) but also future amendments or additions, including that which suspended the summary
remedy. P. 237.
4. Therefore, the amendatory Act did not impair the 6bligation
of the contract. P. 237.
167 Md. 383; 173 Atl. 903, reversed.

