140

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

The petitioner asks here only a ruling which will establish his.eligibility for parole, because of the invalidity of
the sentence on the third count. The ruling sought is
such as might be obtained in a proceeding brought to
mandamus the Parole Board to entertain his petition for
parole, if the sentence on the third count were void for

want of jurisdiction of the court to pronounce it. This
use of habeas corpus is unauthorized by the statutes of
the United States, and for that reason the judgment
must be
Affirmed.

WACO v. UNITED STATES FIDELITY &

GUARANTY CO.

ET. AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 5.

Argued October 9, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

In a suit brought in a state court of Texas against public contractors
and a municipality for damages alleged to have been caused by a
street obstruction, the city by a cross-action vouched in a surety
company, which removed the cause to the federal district court.
That court dismissed the cross-action and then remanded the case
to the state court. Held:
209 Fed. 816, 820, 821, that court, in order that the prisoner might
apply for parole for tho valid part of his sentence, remanded the prisoner with directions to the District Court to discharge the prisoner
from custody with respect to the invalid sentence, but to remand him
to custody upon the valid sentence. This procedure was followed by
the same court in Cahill v. Biddle, 13 F. (2d) 827, 828, 829. But see
Morgan v. Sylvester, 231 Fed. 8SS3, 887; Hostetter v. United States,
16 F. (2d) 921, 923; and Schultz v. Biddle, 19 F. (2d) 478, 480, in
the same court.
In Colson v. Aderhold, 5 F. Supp. 111, the district court for northern Georgia entertained a writ for habeas corpus, reduced the sentence from fifty to thirty-five years, and remanded him for custody
to serve the valid part of his sentence.

WACO v. U. S. FIDELITY & G. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

140

1. The order dismissing the cross-action, if not reversed or set
aside, was conclusive against the city and was appealable. P. 143.
2. While a reversal can not affect the order of remand, it will at
least remit the entire controversy to the state court. P. 143.
67 F. (2d) 785, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 292 U. S. 618, to review a judgment dismissing an appeal from a judgment of the District Court.

Mr. John McGlasson, with whom Mr. J. Walter Cocke
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. G. B. Rogers, with whom Mr. Tom P. Scott was
on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Curtis Boggs, a citizen of Texas, brought suit in a state
court against Combs & Glade, contractors, citizens of
Texas, and the City of Waco, Texas, for damages asserted
to have been caused by collision with a street obstruction.
The City by cross-action vouched in the Fidelity Company. respondent, a citizen of Maryland, surety on a bond
of Combs & Glade, alleging that company was liable under
the bond to pay whatever amount might be adjudged due
by the City by reason of the fault of the contractors.
The City prayed that if, upon the trial, the plaintiff
should recover against it, judgment over should be rendered against the company for a like amount. The company removed the cause to the federal court on the ground
that as to it a separable controversy existed.
The plaintiff, after removal, presented a motion in the
District Court in which he asserted that no separable
controversyexisted, since the Fidelity Company was not
an original party, but was brought into the case by crosscomplaint; that the company was improperly joined
under state law and such joinder could not give the fed-

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion' of the Court.

293 U. S.

eral court jurisdiction; that tlhe cross-actioln and the removal proceeding were collusively filed to deprive the
state court of jurisdiction; that no separable controversy
was presented, as the cause of action set up by the crosscomplaint could not proceed to trial separately from the
main action, but was ancillary thereto, judgment against
Combs & Glade being a prerequisite to any judgment
against the company. The prayer was "that this entire
cause be remanded to the said State Court of the State
of Texas, and in the alternative that the suit of this plaintiff against the defendants Combs and Glade and the City
of Waco be remanded to said court, and also in the alternative that the suit as against the United States Fidelity
and Guaranty Company by the City of Waco, as evidenced
by the cross complaint of the City of Waco, be dismissed
and the balance of this 'action be remanded to the said
State Court.".
The District Court entered -asingle decree embodying
three separate orders. First, being of the opinion that
the record presented a separable controversy between the
City and the Fidelity Company, it overruled the motion
to remand. Secondly, reciting that the motion to dismiss
the cross-complaint haA come on to be heard, it found
that as to the plaintiff's cause of action the .Fidelity Company was an unnecessary and imprcper party, and
granted the motion. Thirdly, since, upon that dismissal,
there was no diversity of citizenship of the remaining
parties, the court held it lacked jurisdiction, and remanded the cause to the state court.
The City appealed, not from the order of remand, but
from that dismissing its action against the Fidelity Company, alleging this was contrary to the law of Texas.
The Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal, holding that, as no appeal lies from an order of remand, the
cause was irrevocably out of the District Court, the action
of that court in dismissing the city's cross-action was

WACO v. U. S. FIDELITY & G. CO.
140

143

Opinion of the Court.

The pemoot, and its propriety could not be reviewed.
titioner complains that this action leaves it in an anomalous position, for, whereas the Circuit Court in its opinion states," the City by cross action, as permitted by the
Texas practice," vouched in the Fidelity Company, the
order of dismissal of the cross-action is outstanding, with
the result that in the further proceedings in the state
court; the District Court's order will be tieat'ed as conclusive upon the question of the City's right to maintain
its cross-action. Evidently this result was not intended
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. In its opinion it says:
all matters concerning the entire controversy, both
those presented by'the cross bill, and those presented by
the main suit are now, because of the remand, pending
in the State court and for, its action, unaffected by the
attempt of the Federal court to dismiss the City's cross
action . .
The record contradicts this statement. 'If the District
Court's order stands, the cross-action will be no part of
the case vhich is remanded to the state court. Indeed,
if the District, Court was right, the cause could not have
been remanded'except for the exclusion of the Fidelity
Company as a party. True, no appeal lies from the' order
of remand; but in logic and in fact the decree of dismissal preceded that of remand and was made by the District Court while it had control of the cause. Indisputably this order is the subject of an appeal; and, if not
reversed or set aside, is conclusive upon the petitioner.
We are of opinion that the petitioner was entitled to
have the Circuit Court Of Appeals determine whether the
dismissal of its cross-action against the Fidelity Company
w" proper. If the District Court erred on this point,
which we do not decide, its action should be reversed. A
reversal cannot affect the order of remand, but it will at
.least, if the dismissal of the petitioner's complaint was
erroneous, remit the entire controversy, with the Fidelity:

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 H. S

Company still a party, to the state court for such further
proceedings as may be in accordance with law.

The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed and the
cause remanded to that court with instructions to reinstate the appeal and to proceed therein in conformity with
law.
Reversed.

HELVERING,

COMMISSIONER OF
REVENUE, v. BLISS.*

INTERNAL

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 6.

Argued October 9, 10, 1934.-Decided November 5, 19 4.

1. The base for computing tne 15 per cent. deduction allowable for
charitable contributions under § 23 (n) 6f the Revenue Act of 1928
is the "net income" defined by § 21 and includes capital net gain,
even though the taxpayer elect to be taxed on capital net gain at
the reduced rate prescribed by § 101 (a). P. 150.
2. This construction of the Act is required by its language and legislative history. P. 147.
3. The right of the taxpayer in computing net income to make deductions for charitable contributions, as expressly provided by § 23 (n)
of the Act, is not modified by § 101, which merely prescribes a
method for taxing a portion of the net income (capital net gain) at
a special rate. P. 150.
4. The allowance of deductions on account of charitable contributions
and the reduction of the rate of tax on capital gains were liberalizations of the law in the taxpayer's favor, based upon considerations
of public policy, and are not to be narrowly construed. Pp.
150-151.
* Together- with No. 7, Helve'ring, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Harbison, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.
No. 8. Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. Colgate.
Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
November 5, 1934. Judgment affirmed, per stipulation of counsel to
abide the decision in No. 7.

