ENELOW v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
378

Syllnhus.

Wall. 106; Keystone Manganese Co. v. Martin, 132 U. S.
91, 93, 97; McGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Central Ry. Co.,
146 U. S. 536,'547; Guarantee Co. v. Mechanics' Savings
Bank & Trust Co., 173 U. S. 582, 586; Simmons Co. v.
Grier Brothers Co., 258 U. S. 82, 89. The decree was
entered on March 31, 1933, and the appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals was not taken until May 18, 1933. The
Circuit Court of Appeals entertained the appeal and reversed the decree of the District Court. As the appeal
was not taken within the time prescribed by law. the
Circuit Court of Appeals was without jurisdiction. Jud.
Code, § 129, 28 U. S. C. 227. The decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded
to that court with directions to dismiss the appeal.

Reversed.

ENELOW v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR, THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 47. Argued November 7, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.
1. A decree of the District Court under Jud. Code, § 274b, staying
an action at law pending determination on the equity side of an
equitable defense to the action, is in effect an injunction and,
being interlocutory, is appealable io tA Circuit Court of Appeals
under Jud. Code, § 129. P. 381. j
2. An application under Jud. Code, §274b, to stay (i. e., to enjoin)
proceedings of a law action until an equitable defense may be
heard, will riot lie if the defense is one which is completely available in the law action. The test is whether the defendant could
have maintained a bill in equity on the same averments. P. 383.
3. In an action brought by the sole beneficiary of a life insurance
policy to collect the insurance after the death of the insured, a
defense that the policy was procured by false answers in the application, alleged to have been made by the insured with knowl-

. OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

edge of their falsity and fraudulently for the purpose of obtaining
the insurance, is completely available in the action at law, and
therefore affords no basis for a stnay under Jud. Code, § 274b.
P. 384.
4. In an action on a life insurance policy, in which the plaintiff was
its sole beneficiary and in which the defendant insurance company
sought the remedy of cancellation upon the ground of fraud in
the application, and tendered the amount of the premiums to the
plaintiff, held that there was no merit in the company's contention
that, because the executors of the insured, who were not made
parties, would be entitled to the refund if the defense of fraud
prevailed, the remedy at law was inadequate. P. 385.
70 F. (2d) 728, reversed.

CERTIORARI * to review the affirmance of a decree of

the District Court staying an action at law -on an insurance policy to await the hearing of an equitable defense interposed by the Insurance Company.
Mr. Charles H. Sachs, with whom Mr. Louis Caplan

was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William H. Eckert, with whom Mr. Louis H. Cooke

was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is an action at law upon a policy of life insurance
issued by respondent in December, 1931, on the life of
petitioner's ,husband, Max Enelow, who died in May,
1933. The action was brought in a state court in Pennsylvania, in July, 1933, and was removed to the federal
court. The policy provided that it should be incontestable after two years from date of issue. In its affidavit
of defense, respondent set up the affirmative defense that

the policy had been obtained by means of false and
fraudulent statements in the decedent's application which
. See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

ENELOW v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
379

Opinion of the Court.

was made a part of the policy. These statements consisted of the applicant's answers to questions with respect to hospital observation or treatment and to his
consultations with physicians. Respondent alleged that,
while the applicant had answered these questions with an
unqualified negative, he had in fact repeatedly consulted
physicians for neurosis and cardiac disease and had twice
Respondent
been the subject of hospital observation. ..
further alleged that these answers were made by the applicant " with knowledge of their falsity and fraudulently
for the purpose of procuring said insurance." Respondent
tendered judgment for tlke premiums received by it, with
interest, and prayed for cancellation of the policy. Petitioner in her reply denied that the answers in the application were either false or fraudulent.
Respondent then presented a petition asking that'the
" equitable issue " raised by the Affidavit of defense and
the plaintiff's reply should be heard pursuant to § 274b of
the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. 398) "by a chancellor
according to equity procedure in advance of the trial by
jury at law of any purely legal issues." The District
Court entered a rule to show cause why the petition should
not be granted and, on hearing, made the rule absolute.
Its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
70 F. (2d) 728. This Court. issued writ of certiorari,
October 8, 1934.
First. A preliminary, question arises as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals. The decree of the
District Court was interlocutory, and the question is
whether it can be. considered to be one granting an injunction and thus within the purview of § 129 of the
Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. 227) permitting appeal.
This sectio; contemplates interlocutory orders or decrees which constitute an exercise of equitable jurisdiction
in granting or refusing an injunction, as distinguished
from a mere stay of proceedings which a court of law, as

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

well as a court of equity, may grant in a cause pending
before it by virtue of its inherent power to control the
progress of the cause so as to maintain the orderly processes of justice. The power to stay proceedings in another
court appertains distinctively to equity in the enforcement of equitable principles, and the grant or refusal of
such a stay by a court of equity of proceedings at law is
a grant or refusal of an injunction, within the meaning
of § 129. And, in this aspect, it makes no difference that
the two cases, the suit in equity for an injunction and the
action at law in which proceedings are stayed, are both
pending in the same court, in view of the established distinction between "proceedings at law and proceedings in
equity in the national courts and -between the powers of
those -courts when sitting as courts of law and when sitting as courts of equity." Per Van Devanter, J., in Griesa
v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 165 Fed. 48, 50, 51.
When the Congress enacted § 274b of the Judicial Code,
providing for equitable defenses in actions at law and
the granting of affirmative equitable relief, .the procedure
was simplified but the substance of the authorized intervention of equity was not altered. The court was em-'.
powered to exercise a summary equitable jurisdiction.
Equitable defenses were permitted to be interposed in
actions at law "by answer, plea or replication without
the necessity of filing a bill on the equity side of the
court." 1 The defendant is to have " the same rights" as
if he had filed a bill seeking the same relief. The equitable issue "is to be tried to the judge as a chancellor."
The same order of trial is preserved as under the system
'The text of § 274b (28 U. S. C. 398) is as follows:
"Equitable defenses and equitable relief in actions at law. In all
actions at law equitable defenses may.be interposed by answer, plea,
or replication without the necessity of filing a bill on the equity side
of the court. The defendant shall have the same rights in such case
as if he had filed a bill embodying the, defense or seeking the relief

ENELOW v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
379

383

Opinion of the 0,ur.

of separate courts. Libery Oil rT'n.-v. Condon Bank, 260
U. S. 235. 242, 243. The trial of the issue at law may
be postponed until the equitable issue is first dispqosed of,
and then, if an issue at law remains, it is triiable by a
jury as thp Seventh Amenrhnerif requires. Id.
It is thus apparent that when an order ,)r deeree is
made under § 274b, requiring, or refusing to require, that
an equitable defense shall first be tried, the court, exercising what is essentially an equitabl, jurisdiction, in
effect grants or refuses an injunction restraining Proceedings at law precisely as if the court had acted upon a bill
of complaint in a sepnrte suit for the s-me purpose.
Such a decree was made in the inst.ant case. and therefore,
although interlocutory, it was appealable to the Circuit
Court of 4pppals under § 129. See Ford v. Hff, 296
Fed. 652, 658; Ame-,an Cyaamid Co. v. Wil.son &
Toomer Co., 62 F. (2d) 1018, 1019, 1020. Compare Em,lenton Refining Co. v. Chaornb , 14 F. (2d) 104.
Second. We come te the inerits.. Was the defense set
up by the defendant of suth a nature that defendant was
entitled to have it heard and determined in equity and
to enjoin the proceedings at law pending that determination? The test under § 274b is whether the defendant
could have maintained a bill in equity on the same averments. The unequivocal 'Mngiiage of the provision leaves
no room fo(rthekargumpnt, that the substantive jurisdiction of equity was sought to be changed nr enlarged. The
defendant's rights to a hearing in equity are "the same,"
not greater..when he resorts to the simmarv proedure,
prayed for in meh rincwer or pl-i. Fouitihile roilief
respecting the
subiject matte; of th, sit -rev thus !, obtained by ftpqwer or plea.
In case affirm-t-irrel"f i r,m,,Md in sueb .vw,,.er o-plea. the plaintiff
shall file q repl;-nton. 'Re,-iQv -if th, irlrnent "r decree entored n
such case shqll h; -e'llate
-y -IlI of Or,'" Whreth-r such review be
sought by writ nf err,,r or )w ipie'q! +he ippellate court shlll have
full poiw; to. rnder sch i-.,dgment imon the records as -law and
.Iftiee shli1l require."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

See Liberty Oil Co. v. Condon Bank, supra; Union Pacific
R. Co. v. Syas, 246 Fed. 561, 565; American Cyanamid
Co. v. Wilson & Toomer Fertilizer Co., supra; New York
Life Ins. Co. v. Miller, 73 F. (2d) 350. Compare PhillipsMorefield v. Southern States Life Ins. Co., 66 F. (2d) 29,
30; New York Life Ins. Co.- v. Marotta, 57 F. (2d) 1038.
And it necessarily follows that this summary procedure
cannot aid the defendant when a bill for the same relief
would not lie because the defense is one which is completely available in the action at law. Emphasizing the
fundamental principle of the equitable jurisdiction, the
Congress, from the first Judiciary Act, has declared that
suits in equity shall not be sustained in any court of the
United States in any case where a " plain, adequate and
complete remedy" may be had at law. Act of September
24, 1789, § 16, 1 Stat. 82; Jud. Code, § 267, 28 U. S. C.
384.
The instant case is not one in which there is resort to
equity for cancellation of the policy during the life of the
insured and no opportunity exists to contest liability at
law. Nor is it a case where, although death may have occurred, action has not been brought to recover upon the
policy, and equitable relief is sought to protect the insurer against loss of its defense by the. expiration of the
period after which the policy by its terms is to become incontestable.' Here, on the death of the insured, an action
at law was brought on the policy, -and the defendant had
opportunity in that action at law, and before the policy
by its terms became incontestable, to contest its liability
and accordingly filed its affidavit of defense. That defense
'See Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. HurniPacking Co., 263 U. S. 167, 177;
Jefferson Standard Life Ins. Co. v. Keeton, 292 Fed. 53, 54; Jefferson
Standard Life Ins. Co. v. McIntyre, 294 Fed. 886; Jones v. Reliance
Life Ins. Co., 11 F. (2d) 69, 70; Peake v. Lincoln National Life Ins.
Co., 15 F. (2d) 303, 305, 306; Keystone Dairy Co. v. New York Life
Ins. Co., 19 F. (2d)'68; Rose v. Mutud Life Ins. Co., 19 F. (2d)
280, 282; Brown v. Pacific Mutual Life Ins. Co., 62 F. (2d) 711, 712.

ENELOW v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
379

385

Opinion of the Court.

was solely that the defendant had been induced to issue
the policy by false answers in the application which were
alleged to have been made by the applicant "with knowledge of their falsity and fraudulently " in order to obtain
the insurance. The affidavit of defense showed nothing
whatever as a further ground for equitable relief and the
respondent is necessarily confined to the case it made. In
such a case, the defense of fraud is completely available
in the action at law and a bill in equity would not lie to
stay proceedings in that action in order to have the defense heard and determined in equity. Insurance Co. v..
Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 623; Life Insurance Co. v. Bangs, 103
U. S. 780, 782; Cable v. United States Life Ins. Co., 191
U. S. 288, 305; American Mills Co. v. American Surety
Co., 260 U. S. 360, 363; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Marshall, 23 F. (2d) 225; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Miller,
supra. Respondent was in no better position under
§ 274b."
Nor is there merit in the contention that the remedy at
law is not adequate because petitioner is not the only
person interested in the policy and that the premiums paid
would be refundable to the decedent's executors. The
executors have no interest entitling, them to enforce the
policy. Petitioner is the sole beneficiary of the policy
and is entitled to recover upon it, if it is valid, and cannot
prevail if the defense of fraud is established. Insurance
Co. v. Bailey; supra; Cable v. United States Life Ins. Co.,
supra. The affidavit of defense raised no question as to
petitioner's standing as beneficiary of the policy, and, indeed, it expressly offered judgment in favor of the petitioner for the amount of the premiums in accordance with
a tender previously made.
Respondent's petition for a hearing and determination
in equity in advance of the trial of the action at law
should have been denied. The decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is reversed and the action is remanded to the

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

District Court with direction to vacate its order for a
hearing in equity and to proceed with the trial of the
action at law.
Reversed.
ADAMOS v. NEW YORK LIFE INSIURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT CWURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 452. Argued

)teeiber 3, 19,4.-..I)ecued Jaimt.

Deciaed on thi ,udiwity oi E,'.

y 7, 1935

. Ae. York Lqe ln.. Co.,

ante, p. 379

71 F. (2d) 997, reverbed.
('ERTIOR,RI *

Of the Distritc
c'al hiSulraunc

the dfflriaticd of a finui deeieu
5 11. Supt, , Z76, z6o, ca,icelig 6ev-

tevlew

'Uurt

lhiic+ iaii

tif,'tlig

tol

la-ylilellt Of

div inputas reiderved on an equianice companies. Tht; decree
table defciisu set up uidur Jui. ('ode . 274b., ii an action
by the benefitiaiy to C.,llect trie policies.
the

prvIIlnmb, vhii ,1 diuei le,

eoU back uj

Mr. CharlesH. Sachb with whom Mr.Lou

Caplan wa,

on the Irief fot petiiiorier..
Mr. William H Eci ert. with wh,ar, Mr. Louis H. CooJke
was on the brief, for re por,dent
NIB CiI
the Cuurt.

JUTI'EI(:E I,

Petitioner br,,ugrat thib action

delivered the'opimion of

at

1ttaw aj beneficiary of

several policies ,,f iisuiance issued by respoidetit. The
policies were alleged to itVw beei issued irk April, 1932..

upon the life of petitioner's f-thei, v¢hu died In July,
1932. The liolicies wete to be incoiatatble after two
*

See 'rable of Caots lRpik.oteu ii. Lhii

' ,,.ine.

