OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

the property, and permit it where he elects to compute it
under 204 (c), on the basis of cost. But the nature and
the purpose of the allowance is the same in both cases,
and we find neither statutory authority nor logical justification for withholding it in the one and granting it in
the other; much less for making the decision turn upon
the circumstance that no production is obtained within
the year in which the bonus is paid.
As to income tax liability in the year of termination of
the lease, on account of bonus paid at the execution of
the lease, if no mineral has then been extracted, we express
no opinion.
The judgments are
Reversed.
DAVIS v. AETNA ACCEPTANCE CO.
CERTIORARI'TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF ILLINOIS, FIRST

DISTRICT.
No. 68. Argued November 9, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.
1. A creditor to whom a bankrupt owes money on a promissory note
and against whom the bankrupt has committed an act of conversion by an unauthorized sale of personal property mortgaged to
secure the note, may prove on the note, "a fixed liability as evidenced by an instrument in writing," Bankruptcy Act, § 63 (1),
or may waive the tort and prove on the implied assumpsit, § 63
(4); but he cannot escape the discharge by electing to ignore the
bankruptcy proceedings and suing on the tort. P. 331.
2. Section 17 (2) of the Bankruptcy Act, which excepts from discharge liabilities for "willful and malicious injuries" to the property of another, does not embrace a technical conversion, committed
against the mortgagee of personal property by the mortgagor in
possession, by an unauthorized sale, if the act was not in fact wilful or malicious but done innocently in the honest though mistaken
belief that authority to sell existed. P. 331.
3. Section "17 (4) of the Bankruptcy Act, which excepts from discharge liabilities of a bankrupt created by his fraud, embezzlement,
etc., while acting in any "fiduciary capacity," refers to strict trusts,

DAVIS v. AETNA ACCEPTANCE CO.
328

329

Opinion of the Court.

existing before the wrongs creating the excepted liabilities are
committed, and not to trusts ex maleficio arising from the wrongs
themselves. P. 333.
4. A dealer in automobiles purchased a car by means of a loan of
money, to secure which he delivered to the lender his promissory
note for the amount borrowed, a chattel mortgage covering the car,
a "trust receipt " agreeing to hold the car as the property of the
lender for the purpose of storage, and not to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of it without the lender's consent in writing, and,
finally, a bill of sale, absolute in form. Held:
That the transaction amounted merely to a mortgage for the security of the loan with a covenant by the mortgagor not to sell
without the mortgagee's consent, and did not constitute the former
a fiduciary for the latter within the meaning of § 17 (4) of the
Bankruotcy Act. P. 334.
273 Ill. App. 628, reversed.

CERTIORARI

*

to review the affirmance of a judgment

recovered by the Acceptance
an action of trover counting
automobile. Davis's special
ruptcy was overruled. The

Company against Davis in
on the sale of a mortgaged
plea of a discharge in bankSupreme Court of Illinois

refused leave to appeal.

Mr. FranklinD. Trueblood, with whom Messrs. Edward
A. Zimmerman and George A. Edwards were on the brief,

for petitioner.
Mr. William S. Kleinman for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.

A discharge in bankruptcy, pleaded as a defense to a
declaration in trover for the conversion of a chattel, has
been ruled by the courts below not to constitute a bar.
The question is whether upon the evidence and the findings the bar should have been upheld.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

The petitioner was a dealer in automobiles, selling them
at retail and maintaining a salesroom where his wares
were displayed. To put himself in funds for the acquisition of the cars, he obtained loans from the respondent,
the Aetna Acceptance Company, in thirty-five or more
,transactions. In particular he borrowed $1,181.87 on
July 10, 1929, procuring title thereby to an Auburn sedan.
This was 90% of the cost of the car, the residue of the
price being paid out of his own money. At once upon
receipt of the sedan, he delivered to the respondent a set
of four papers; a promissory note for $1,181.87 to the
order of the respondent payable in sixty days; a chattel
mortgage covering the automobile and securing payment
of the note; a trust receipt, acknowledging receipt of the
automobile, and agreeing to hold it as the property of the
respondent for the purpose of storage, and not to sell,
pledge or otherwise dispose of it except upon consent in
writing; and finally a bill of sale, absolute in form.
On August 3, 1929, the automobile, then on exhibit in
the petitioner's showroom, was sold by one of his salesmen, and thereupon or soon afterwards petitioner received
the price. There is a stipulation that the sale was made
without concealment and in the ordinary course of business, though without written consent. According to the
petitioner's testimony, notice of the transaction was given
the same day to one of the respondent's officers. There is
also testimony tending to support the inference that on
many other occasions cars held upon like terms had been
sold without express consent and the proceeds accounted
for thereafter. On this occasion the petitioner promised
to make prompt remittance of a check, subject to an offset
or credit growing out of other dealings. He did not keep
his promise. Instead, he filed a petition in bankruptcy
on September 13, 1929, obtaining later his discharge after
duly listing the respondent in his schedule of creditors.

DAVIS v. AETNA ACCEPTANCE CO.
328

Opinion of the Court.

The filing of that petition was followed by this action for
conversion. The trial judge, overruling.the special plea
of a discharge, gave judgment in favor of the respondent
for damages and costs. The Illinois Appellate Court affirmed. There was a refusal of leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, permission being requisite
because of the amount involved. The case is here on
certiorari.
The effect of a discharge in bankruptcy is to "release a
bankrupt from all of his provable debts," with excepted
liabilities enumerated in 'the statute. Bankruptcy Act,
§ 17; 11 U. S. C. § 35. There is no dispute that the
respondent had a provable debt. It might have proved
upon the note, "a fixed liability as evidenced by . . . an
instrument in writing." Bankruptcy Act, § 63 (1); 11
U. S. C. § 103a. If its grievance was the sale, it might
have proved " upon a contract, express or implied," § 63
(4), waiving the tort and standing upon the implied assumpsit. Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S. 176, 193; Tindle
v. Birkett, 205 U. S. 183. What it did is not decisive.
Crawford v. Burke, supra; Tindle v. Birkett, supra.
Enough that a method of proof had been provided to be
used at its election.
The debt being provable, the next inquiry must be
whether the liability back of it is within one of the excepted classes. For present purposes, only two of the exceptions, § 17 (2) and (4), will have to be considered.
The others by concession have no relation to this case.
Subdivision 2 excludes from the release "liabilities for
. . . willful and malicious injuries to the person or property of another." Subdivision 4 excludes the liabilities of
a bankrupt "created by his fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation or defalcation while acting as an officer or in
any fiduciarycapacity."
1. The respondent contends that the petitioner was
liable for a wilful and malicious injury to the property

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

of another as the result of the sale and conversion of the
car in his possession. There is no doubt that an act of
conversion, if wilful and malicious, is an injury to property within the scope of this exception. Such a case was
McIntyre v. Kavanaugh, 242 U. S. 138, where the wrong
was unexcused and wanton. But a wilful and malicious
injury does not follow as of course from every act of
conversion, 'without reference to, the circumstances.
There may be a conversion which is innocent or technical, an unauthorized assumption of dominion without
wilfulness or malice. Boyce v' Brockway, 31 N. Y. 490,
493; Laverty v. Snethen, 68 N. Y. 522, 527; Wood v.
Fisk, 215 N. Y. 233, 239; 109 N. E. 177; Stanley v. Gaylord, 1 Cush. (Mass.) 536, 550; Compau v. Bemis, 35 Ill.
App. 37; In re De Lauro, 1 F. Supp. 678, 679. There may
be an honest, but mistaken belief, engendered by a course
of dealing, that powers have been enlarged or incapacities removed. In these and like cases, what is done is a
tort, but not a wilful and malicious one. Turning to the
findings here, we see that wilfulness and malice have been
unmistakably excluded. Cf. In re Dixon, 21 F. (2d) 565,
566; In re Burchfield, 31 F. (2d) 118, 119. The trial
court made a special finding as follows: " The court finds
that the defendant in this case was not actuated by wilful, malicious or criminal intent in disposing of the car
in question." In these circumstances the respondent is
not helped by the later and general finding that the petitioner was " guilty of legal conversion of the-property,
as described in the count in trover." The special controls
the general, just as upon the verdict of a jury. Walker
v. New Mexico & S. P. R. Co., 165 U. S. 593, 598; VictorAmerican Fuel Co. v. Peccarich,209 Fed. 568, 571.
Nothing in the judgment of the Illinois Appellate
Court is at war with the exculpatory finding made upon
the trial. The Appellate Court repeats the words of the

DAVIS v. AETNA ACCEPTANCE CO.
328

Opinion of the Court.

trial judge without hint of disapproval. Its only comment is that under the law of Illinois malice and wrongful intent are not necessary constituents of a cause of
action in trover. This, of course, is true, but though
true, it is beside the mark. The discharge will prevail as
against a showing of conversion without aggravated features.
2. The respondent contends that irrespective of wilfulness or malice, the petitioner is within the exception
declared by subdivision 4, his liability arising, it is said,
from his fraud or misappropriation while acting in a fiduciary capacity. The meaning of these words has been
fixed by judicial construction for very nearly a century.
Chapman v. Forsyth, 2 How. 202, decided in 1844, is a
decision to the effect that within the meaning of a like
provision in the Act of 1841, a factor does not act in a
fiduciary capacity; the statute "speaks of technical trusts,
and not those which the law implies from the contract."
2 How. at p. 208. The scope of the exception was to be
limited accordingly. Through the intervening years that
precept has been applied by this court in varied situations
with unbroken continuity. Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704;
Hennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676, 682; Noble v. Hammond, 129 U. S. 65, 68; Upshur v. Briscoe, 138 U. S. 365;
Crawford v. Burke, supra; Tindle v. Birkett, supra. Cf.
Cronan v. Cotting, 104 Mass. 245; Clair v. Colmes, 245
Mass. 281; 139 N. E. 519. It is not enough that by
the very act of wrongdoing out of which the contested
debt arose, the bankrupt has become chargeable as a
trustee ex maleficio. He must have been a trustee before the wrong and without reference thereto. In the
words of Blatchford, J., "The language would seem to
apply only to a debt created by a person who was already
a fiduciary when the debt was created." Upshur v. Briscoe, supra, at p. 378. Was petitioner a trustee in that
strict and narrow sense?

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

We think plainly he was not, though multiplicity of
documents may obscure his relation if the probe is superficial. The only writing at all suggestive of a trust is the
one that is characterized as a trust receipt. What effect
would be given to it if it stood alone there is no occasion
to consider. It does not stand alone, but is a member of
a group which must be read with a collective meaning.
The note, the chattel mortgage, the trust receipt and the
bill. of sale were made at the same time. We must view
them all together. Clearly the respondent's only interest
*in the car was as security for the debt; this is the central
fact, the cohrdinating element, that unifies the whole
transaction. The bill of sale may seem to make the creditor a purchaser; whatever its recitals, it is a mortgage in
another form. Whittemore v. Fisher, 132 Ill. 243. The
trust receipt may state that the debtor holds the car as
the property of the creaitor; in truth it is his own property, subject to a lien. Barchard v. Kohn, 157 Ill. 579,
585, 586; 41 N. E. 902. The substance of the transaction
is this, and nothing more, that the mortgagor, a debtor,
has bound himself by covenant not to sell the mortgaged
chattel without the mortgagee's approval. The resulting
obligation is not turned into one arising from a trust because the parties to one of the documents have chosen to
speak of it as a trust. Cf. In re Butts, 120 Fed. 966, 971;
Bloomingdale v. Dreher, 31 F. (2d) 93. The relation
would be no different if the duty had been stated in terms
of covenant alone without descriptive epithet. A mortgagor in possession before condition broken is not a trustee
for the mortgagee within the meaning of this statute,
though he has charged himself with a duty to keep
the security intact. Cf. Ten Eyck v. Craig, 62 N. Y. 406,
422.
No question as to a cause of action arising from a conversion of the proceeds of the sale with wilfulness and

MUTUAL LIFE CO. v. JOHNSON.
328

335

Syllabus.

malice as distinguished from one arising from the conversion of the car itself is before us on this record.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW
YORK v. JOHNSON, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 154.

Argued November 15, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

A life insurance policy, issued in Virginia to a resident of that State,
provided that if the insured, before attaining a certain age and
while no premium was in default, should furnish the company due
proof of his being totally and permanently disabled, the company
would grant him specified monthly payments from receipt of such
proof through the remainder of his lifetime as long as such disability continued, and would also, after receipt of such proof,
waive payment of each premium as it thereafter became due during
such disability. Before the expiration of a period of grace allowed
for payment of a premium, the insured became totally and permanently disabled, both physically and mentally, to such an extent
that he was unable to give notice to the company in advance of
default, and thus procure the waiver called for by the policy. The
disability persisted until his death. Held:
1. The contract.is to be interpreted according to the law of Virginia where delivery was made. p. 339.
2. So interpreted, the right to have the premiums waived during
the disability was not lost by the failure to give notice, caused by
the disability. Id.
3. The question concerns merely the meaning implied in the
words of a highly specialized condition, involving no rule of the
law merchant or general principle of the law of insurance contracts;
it is a doubtful one upon which the courts of the country are divided; and. in deciding it, this Court (though it may have power
to do otherwise) will be guided in its decision by. the law of the
State of the contract. P. 339.
70 F. (2d) 41, affirmed.

