HAMILTON v. REGENTS.

245

Syllabus.

HAMILTON ET AL. v. REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 55.

Argued October 17, 18, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. An order of the Regents of the University of California requiring
every abled-bodied male student who, at the time of his matriculation, is under the age of twenty-four years, and who has not attained full academic standing as a junior student, to enroll in and
complete a course in military science and tactics, held a statute of
a State, within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 237 (a), in view of the
relation of the University to the state government and the legislative powers conferred upon the Regents by the state constitution
in respect of the organization and government of the University. P. 257.
2. An appeal will not be dismissed for want of a substantial federal
question unless the federal questions presented are clearly not debatable and utterly lacking in merit. P. 258.
3. A State, by accepting the benefits of the Act of July 2, 1862, for
the endowment, maintenance and support of a "land grant" college, becomes bound, as one of the conditions of the grant, to offer
the students at such college instruction in military tactics, but remains free to determine the branches of military training to be
offered, the content of the instruction, and the objects to be'attained; whether Ahe State becomes bound to require the students to take the training is a question not'involved in the present
case. P. 258.
4. Judicial notice is taken of the long-established voluntary coperation between federal and state authorities in respect of the military
instruction given in the land grant colleges. P. 259.
5. The War Department has not been empowered to prescribe the
military instruction in these institutions. P. 259.
6. Each State has authority to train its able-bodied male citizens of
suitable age to fit them, if called upon, for service in the United
States Army, the state militia, or the local constabulary or police;
and for these purposes it may, with the permission of the National
Government, avail itself of the'services of officers and the use of
equipnent belonging to the military establishment of the United
States. P. 260.

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Argument for Appellants.

293 U. S.

7. And while so acting within its retained powers, and consistently
with exertion of national power and with rights of individuals safeguarded by the National Constitution, the State is the sole judge
of the means to be employed and the amount of training to be
exacted. P. 260.
8. The " privileges and immunities " protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment are those that belong to the citizens of the United
States as distinguished from citizens of the States-those that arise
from the Constitution and laws of the United States as contrasted
with those that spring from other sources. P. 261.
9. If the refusal by a State to allow its citizen to exercise the privilege of attending the State's university, except upon condition that
he take military training, to which he objects on religious and conscientious grounds, is not repugnant to the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment as an undue deprivation of liberty, it
does not violate the privileges and immunities clause. P, 261.
10. The liberty guaranteed by. the Fourteenth Amendment does not
confer upon a conscientious and religious objector to war and military training the right to attend a state university without taking
a course in military training required by the State as part of the
curriculum. P. 262.
11. There is no conflict between the Regents' order involved in this
case and the Briand-Rellogg Peace Pact, 46 Stat. 2343. P. 265.
219 Cal. 663; 28 P. (2d) 355, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment denying a writ of mandate
sought as a means of compelling the Regents of the University of California to permit Hamilton and Reynolds,
Jr., two minors, to study at the University without taking
the required course in military training.
Mr. John Beardsley.for appellants.

Compulsory membership and service in the Reserve

Officers Training Corps abridges the privileges and immunities of appellants as citizens of the United States, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Reserve Officers Training Corps is a part of the

military forces of the United States, and is no part of the
military establishment of the State. The membership,
control, courses of study, etc., are under the War Department. The commanding officers,, uniforms and weapons

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

Argument for Appellants.

are supplied by the Federal Government. The primary
object of establishing units of the R. 0. T. C. at the
University is to qualify students for appointments in the
Reserve Officers Corps of the United States Army. It is
not necessary for us to contend here that compulsory
training in a state military unit. for state purposes, would
constitute an abridgment of the privileges and immunities
of citizens of the United States.
Without authorization by Act of Congress, there is no
power even in the Federal Government to compel service
in any branch of the federal military establishment in
time of peace.
The University of California is a Land Grant College,
enjoying federal subsidy under the Morrill Land Grant
College Act, approved July 2, 1862. Undoubtedly many
such institutions have made military training compulsory
in the sincere belief that the Morrill Act required that it
be compulsory. It does not. See 36 Op. Atty. Gen. 297.
Since Congress has not required that military training
in that branch of the federal military establishment
known as the Reserve Officers Training Corps shall be
compulsory, certainly the States and the Universities are
without power to compel service in that military organization, not of the State, but of the Federal Government.
Freedom from compulsory service in a branch of the
federal military establishment in time of peace is a privilege and immunity of citizens of the United States. The
privileges and immunities guaranteed against state
abridgment by the Fourteenth Amendment are those arising out of the essential nature and character of the
National Government, and granted or secured by the
Constitution of the United States. United States v.
Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542.
The Morrill Act affords immunity from enforced service
in time of peace by not making military training in the
Land Grant Colleges compulsory. Sinilarly the Act
establishing the R. 0. T. C. refrains from making training

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellants.

293 U. S.

compulsory and from authorizing it to be made compulsory in the Land Grant Colleges and other state educational institutions. It does. however, authorize the requirement of compulsory military training in other institutions wherein R. 0. T. C. units are established, thus
bringing into relief the intention of Congress not to
authorize compulsion in the state colleges.
If it is sai( that the privileges and immunities of appellants are not abridged because they are not actually being
compelled to serve in the R. 0. T. C., it is unquestioned
that they have been suspended from the University for
their refusal to render such service, and no State may
impose, as a condition upon which it will extend a privilege which it may legally grant or withhold, the surrender
of rights under the Constitution and laws of the United
States. Home Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445,
456; Terral v. Burke Construction Co., 257 U. S. 529.
Compulsory military training imposed upon religious
and conscientious objectors violates religious freedom,
and deprives appellants of their freedom of religion without due process of law.
Just as the freedom of speech and press are protected
against state abridgment by the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment; Stromberg v. California, 283
U. S. 359; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697; so must
freedom of religion in like manner be protected.
The older cases held that the guaranties of civil liberties in the First Amendment afforded no protection
against abridgment by the States, since the Amendment
is a limitation confined to the National Government.
All that is changed by the Stromberg and Near decisions,
which remove all doubt that the liberties guaranteed by
the First Amendnent are a part of the liberty safeguarded by the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Depriving students of their right to education at their
State University because of their refusal to engage in

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
Amicus Curiae.

245

military training in violation of the religious teachings
of their Church and their own deepest convictions of religion and conscience, amounts to a prohibition of the free
exercise of religion,'in violation of the First Amendment,
as made applicable to the States by the Fourteenth
Amendment. Certainly freedom of religion means something more than the right to worship according to the
dictates of one's own conscience. No law or constitutional guaranty is necessary to protect that right. The
principle must afford protection to outward inanifestations of religious belief. This court has sustained such
manifestations in Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S.390, 399,
and in Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510, 535.
See also Hardwich v. Board of School Trustees, 54 Cal.
App. 696.
Compulsory military training violates the Kellogg
Pact, outlawing war. California, and the University of
California, are bound by that treaty. The Federal Government, perhaps, may violate it. The States may not.
We submit that compulsory training for war violates the
spirit, if not the letter, of the Kellogg Pact.
Mr. John U. Calkins, Jr., with whom Mr. Frederic W.
Hall was on the brief, for appellees.
By leave of Court, Mr. Sveinbjorn Johnson filed a brief,
as anicus curiae, on behalf of numerous Land Grant Colleges,* in which he went largely into the history of the
The Land Grant Colleges on whose behalf this brief was filed are
as follows:
Purdue University
University of Arizona
Rhode Island State College
Texas A. & M. College
Montana State College
South Dakota State College
University of Maryland
University of Minnesota

Kansas State College
University of Florida
Connecticut State College
Michigan State College
University of Arkansas
University of Wyoming
Virginia Polytechnic Institute

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

Land Grant Act of 1862 and of the acceptance and interpretation by numerous States of the trusts created. He
argued strongly in support of the view that under these
trusts, military training must not only be offered but must
be required at the beneficiary institutions, and he subjected the opinion of the Attorney General of June 20,
1930, 36 Op. Atty. Gen. 297, to a critical analysis.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal under § 237 (a), Judicial Code, 28
U. S. C., § 344 (a), from a judgment bf the highest court
of California sustaining a state law that requires students at its university to take a course in military science
and tactics, the validity of which was by the appellants
challenged as repugnant to the Constitution and laws of
the United States.
The appellants are the above-named minors, and the
fathers of each as his guardian ad litem and individually.
They are taxpayers and citizens of the United States and
of California. Appellees are the regents constituting a
corporation created by the State to administer the university, its president, and its provost. Appellants applied
to the state supreme court for a writ of mandate compelling appellees to admit the minors into the university
as students. So far as they are material to the questions
presented here, the allegations of the -petition are:
In October, 1933, each of these minors registered, became a student in the university and fully conformed to
all its requirements other than that compelling him to
take the course in military science and tactics in the Reserve Officers Training Corps, which they assert to be an
integral part of the -military establishment of the United
States and not connected in any way with the militia or
military establishment of the State. The primary object
of there establishing units of the training corps is to
qualify students for appointment in the Officers Reserve

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

Opinion of the Court.

Corps. The courses in military training are those prescribed by the War Department. The regents require
enrollment and participation of able-bodied male students who are citizens of the United States. These
courses include instruction in rifle marksmanship, scouting and patrolling, drill and command, musketry, combat
principles, and use of automatic rifles. Arms, equipment
and uniforms for use of students in such courses are furnished by the War Department of the United States
Government.
These minors are members of the Methodist Episcopal
Church and of the Epworth League and connected religious societies and organizations. For many years their
fathers have been ordained ministers of that church. The
Southern California Conference at its 1931 session
adopted a resolution:
"With full appreciation of the heroic sacrifices of all
those who have conscientiously and unselfishly served
their country in times of war, but with the belief that
the time has come in the unfolding light of the new day
for the settlement of human conflicts by pacific means,
and because we as Christians owe our first and supreme
allegiance to Jesus Christ. Because the Methodist Episcopal Church in her General Conference of 1928 has declared: 'We renounce war as an instrument of national
policy.' Because our nation led the nations of the world
in signing the Paris Peace Pact, and the Constitution of
the United States, Article 6, Section 2, provides that:
'This Constitution and the laws of the United States
which shall be made in pursuance thereof and all treaties
made under authority of the United States shall be the
Supreme Law of the Land.' Thus making the Paris Pact
the supreme law of the land which declares: 'The high
contracting parties agree that the settlement of all disputes or conflict-shall never be sought except by pacific
means.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293. U. S.

"Therefore we, the Southern California Conference,
memorialize the General Conference which convenes in
Atlantic City in May, 1932; to petition the United States
Government to grant exemption from military service to
such citizens who are members of the Methodist Episcopal Church, as conscientiously believe that participation
in war is a denial of their supreme allegiance to Jesus
Christ."
And in 1932 the General Conference of that Church
adopted as a part of its tenets and discipline:
"We hold that our country is benefited by having as
citizens those who unswervingly follow the dictates of
their consciences . . . Furthermore, we believe it to be

the duty of the churches to give moral support to those
individuals who hold conscientious scruples against participation in military training or military service. We petition the government of the United States to grant to
members of the Methodist Episcopal Church who may be
conscientious objectors to war the same exemption from
military service as has long been granted to members of
the Society of Friends and other similar religious organizations. Similarly we petition all educational institutions
which require military training to excuse from such training any student belonging to the Methodist Episcopal
Church who has conscientious scruples against it. We
earnestly petition the government of the United States to
cease to support financially all military training in civil
educational institutions."
And the Southern California Conference at its 1933
session adopted the following:
"Reserve Officers' Training Corps-Recalling the action of the General Conference asking for exemption from
military service for those members of our church to whom
war and preparation for war is a violation of conscience,
we request the authorities of our State Universities at
Berkeley, Los Angeles and Tucson, to exempt Methodist
students from the R. 0. T. C. on the grounds of conscien-

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

Opinion of the Court.

tious objection, and we hereby pledge the moral and official backing of this Conference, seeking such exemption,
provided that it be understood that no conscientious objector shall participate in the financial profits of war.
The Secretary of the Conference is asked to send copies
of this paragraph to the governing boards of these
institutions."
Appellants, as members of that church, accept and
feel themselves morally, religiously and conscientiously
bound by its tenets and discipline as expressed in the
quoted conference resolutions; each is a follower of the
teachings of Jesus Christ; each accepts as a guide His
teachings and those of the Bible and holds as a part of his
religious and conscientious belief that war, training for
war, and military training are immoral, wrong and contrary to the letter and spirit of His teaching and the
precepts of the Christian religion.
Therefore these students, at the beginning of the fall
term in 1933, petitioned the university for exemption from
military training and participation in the activities of the
training corps, upon the ground of their religious and conscientious objection to war and to military training.
Their petition was denied. Thereupon, through that
church's bishop in California, they and their fathers petitioned the regents that military training be made optional
in order that conscientious and religious objectors to war,
training for war and military training might not be confronted with the necessity of violating and foreswearing
their beliefs or being denied the right of education in the
state university to which these minors are entitled under
the constitution and laws of the State of California and
of the United States.
The regents refused to make military training optional
or to exempt these students. Then, because of their religious and conscientious objections, they declined to take
the prescribed course, and solely upon that ground the
r.egents by formal notification suspended them from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

university, but with leave to apply for readmissionat any
time, conditioned upon their ability and willingness to
comply with all applicable regulations of the university
governing the matriculation and attendance of students.
The university affords opportunity for education such as
may not be had at any other institution in California,
except at a greater cost which these minors are not able
to pay. And they, as appellees at the time of their suspension well knew, are willing to take as a substitute for
military training such other courses as may be prescribed
by the university.
Other allegations of the petition need not be stated as
they merely go to show the grounds upon which appellants under the state practice sought the writ of mandate.
The university is a land grant college. An act of Congress (Morrill Act approved July 2, 1862, 12 Stat. 503;
7 U. S. C., §§ 301-308) donated public lands to the several
States in order that upon the conditions specified all
moneys derived from the sale of such lands or from the
sale of land scrip issued under the act should be invested
and constitute a perpetual fund the interest of which
should be inviolably appropriated by each State accepting the benefits of the act " to the endowment, support,
and maintenance of at least one college where the leading
object shall be, without excluding other scientific and
classical studies, and including military tactics, to teach
such branches of learning as are related to agriculture and
the mechanic arts, in such manner as the legislatures of
the States may respectively prescribe, in order to promote
the liberal and practical education of the industrial classes
in the several pursuits and professions in life." 1
The quoted language, § 4, has been twice reenacted. See Act of
March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 484. Act of April 13, 1926, 44 Stat. 247.
Morrill Act land grant colleges have been given federal aid under
the following acts: March 2, 1887, 24 Stat. 440; August 30, 1890, 26
Stat. 417; March.16, 1906, 34 Stat. 63; March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1256,
1

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

Opinion of the Court.

March 23, 1868, the legislature of California passed
an act creating the university " in order to devote to the
largest purposes of education the benefaction made to the
State" by the Morrill Act. Stats. 1867--8, p. 248. This
law of the State, called the organic act, provides that
"any resident of California, of the age of fourteen years
or upwards. of approved moral character, shall have the
right to enter himself in the University as a student at
large, and receive tuition in any branch or branches of
instruction at the time when the same are given intheir
regular course, on such terms as the Board of Regents
may prescribe." § 3. It declared that the college of agriculture should be first established, § 4; that the college
of mechanic arts should be next established, § 5, "and
in order to fulfill the requirements of the said Act of
Congress. all able-bodied male students of the University,
whether pursuing full or partial courses in any college, or
as students at large, shall receive instruction and discipline in military tactics in such manner and to such extent as the Regents shall prescribe, the requisite arms for
which shall be furnished by the State." § 6. Article
IX, § 9, of the state constitution as amended Novemlber
5, 1918, declares: " The University of California shall
constitute a public trust, to be administered by the existing corporation known as 'The Regents of the University of California,' with full powers of organization and
government, subject only to such legislative control as
may be necessary to insure compliance with the terms of
the endowments, of the university and the security of its.
funds . . . provided, that all moneys derived from the
sale of public lands donated to this State by act of Congress approved July 2,1862 (and the several acts amenda1281; M'ly S,1914, 3S Stat. 372; February 24. 1925,,43 Stat. 970; May
22, 1928, 45 Stat. 711. And see Acts of February.23, 1917,.39 Stat.
929; June 7, 1924, 43 Stat. 653; February 9, 1927, 44 Stat. 1065.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S

tory thereof), shall be invested as provided by said acts
of Congress and the income from said moneys shall be
inviolably appropriated to the endowment, support and
maintenance of at least one college of agriculture, where
the leading objects shall be (without excluding other scientific and classical studies, and including military tactics) to teach such branches .of learning as are related to
scientific and practical agriculture and mechanic arts, in
accordance with the requirements and conditions of said
acts of Congress." September 15, 1931, pursuant to the
provisions of .the organic act and constitution, the regents
promulgated the following order:
" Every able-bodied student of the University of California who, at the time of his matriculation at the University, is under the age of twenty-four years and a
citizen of the United States and who has not attained full
academic standing as a junior student in the University
and has not completed the course in military science and
tactics offered to freshmen and sophomore students at
the University shall be and is hereby required as a conditiorl to his attendance as a student to enroll in and complete a course of not less than one and one-half units of
instruction in military science and tactics each semester of
his attendance until such time as he shall have received
a'total of six units of such instruction or shall have attained full academic standing as a junior student."
In the court below appellants assailed the laws and
.order above referred to as repugnant to specified provisions of the California constitution, and political code.
And they adequately challenged the validity of the state
constitution, organic act and regents' order, in so far as
they were by the regents construed to require these students to take the prescribed course in military science and
tactics, as repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the
United States.

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

Opinion of the Court.

The state court, without announcing an opinion, denied
the petition for a writ of mandate. Appellants applied
for a rehearing. The court, denying the application,
handed down an opinion in which it held that Art. IX,
§ 9, reposes in the regents full powers of organization and
government of the university subject to legislative control in respect of its endowments and funds; that by § 6
of the organic act and Art. IX, § 9, military tactics is
expressly required to be included among the subjects
which shall be taught at the university and that Itis the
duty of the regents to prescribe the nature and extent
of the courses to be given and to determine what students
shall be required to pursue them, and that the suspension
of the petitioning students because of their refusal to
pursue the compulsory courses in military training involved no violation of their rights under the Constitution
of the United States.
By their assignment of errors, appellants call upon this
court to decide whether the challenged provisions of the
state constitution, organic act and regents' order, in so
far as they impose compulsory military training, are repugnant to the privileges and immunities clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, the due process clause of that
amendment or the treaty that is generally called the
Briand-Kellogg Peace Pact. 46 Stat. 2343.
Appellees contend that this court has no jurisdiction
because, as they say, the.regenits' order is not a "statute of
any state" within the meaning of § 237 (a), Judicial
Code. But by the California constitution the regents are,
with exceptions not material here, fully empowered in
respect of the organization and government of the university, which, as it has been held, is a constitutional
department or function of the state government.
Williams v. Wheeler (1913) 23 Cal. App. 619, 623; 138
Pac. 937. Wallace v. Regents (1925) 75 Cal. App. 274,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

277; 242 Pac. 892. The assailed order prescribes a rule
of conduct and applies to all students belonging to the
defined class. And it was because of its violation that the
regents by resolution suspended these students. The
meaning of " statute of any state" is not limited to acts
of state legislatures. It is used to include every act legislative in character to which .the State gives sanction, no
distinction being made between acts of the state legislature and other exertions of the state law-making power.
King Mfg. Co. v. Augusta, 277 U. S. 100. Sultan Ry. Co.
v. Dept. of Labor, 277 1'. S. 135. It follows that the order
making military instruction compulsory is a statute of the
State within the meaning of § 237 (a).
And the appellees insist that this appeal should be dismissed for the want of a substantial federal question.
But that contention cannot be sustained; for we are
unable to say that every question that appellaijts have
brought here for decision is so clearly not debatable and
utterly lacking in merit as to require dismissal for want of
substance.'
The allegations of the petition do not mean that California has divesteditself of any part of its power solely
to determine what military training shall be offeied or
required at the university. While, by acceptance of the
benefits of the Morrill Act of 1862 and the creation of the
university in order appropriately to oinply with the terms
of the grant, the State became bound to offer students in
that university instruction in military tactics, it remains
untrammeled by federal enactment and is entirely frec
2

Micas v. Williams, 104 U. S. 55 . WVabash R "Co.v. Flannigan

102 U. S. 29, 38. Deming v. Cadlislr,Packing Co., 226 U. S.'102, 105.
107. Erie R. Co. v. Solomon, 237 U. S. 427. Chicago, R. I. & P.
Ry. Co. v. Devine, 239 U. S..52, 54. Sugarman v. United States, 249
U. S. 182. Quong Ham Wah Co. v. Industrial Comm'n., 255 U S.
445, 448-449. Zuchtv. King, 260 U. S. 174, 176. Roe v. Kansas, 278
U. S. 191. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 92.

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

Opinion of the Court.

to determine for itself the branches of military training
to be provided, the content of the instruction to be given
and the objectives to be attained. That State-as did
each of the other States of the Union-for the proper discharge of its obligations as beneficiary of the grant made
the course in military instruction compulsory upon students. Recently Wisconsin and Minnesota have made it
elective.' The question whether the State has bound
itself to require students to take the training is not here
involved. The validity of the challenged order does not
depend upon the terms of the land grant.
The petition is not to be understood as showing that
students required by the regents' order to take the prescribed course thereby serve in the army or in any sense
become a part of the military establishment of the United
States. Nor is the allegation that the courses are prescribed by the War Department to be taken literally. We
take judicial notice of the long-established voluntary cooperation between federal and state authorities in respect
of the military instruction given in the land grant colleges. The War Department has not been empowered
3Each State has a land grant college; Massachusetts has two. In
1923 Wisconsin made the course elective. Wis. Laws, 1923, c. "226.
On the argument of this case appellants' counsel stated that Minnesota has recently made the course elective. Circular 126, Prelirhinary
Report, Land-Grant Colleges and Universities, 1933, Department of
Interior, Office of Education.
4 §§ 40-47 of National Defense Act of June 3, 1916, 39 Stat. 166,
191-2, as amended by §§ 33 and 34 of Act of June 4, 1920, 41 Stat.
759, 776, 777, Act of June 5, 1920, 41 Stat. 948, 967, and Act of May12, 1928, 45 Stat. 501. 10 U. S. C., §§ 381-390. Army Regulations
No. 145-10, § II, pars. 10 and 11.
Cf. Acts of ulv 28, 1866, 14 Stat. 332, 336, and of May 4, 1870,
16 Stat. 373; R. S. § 1225, as amended July 5, 1884, 23 Stat. 107, 108;
September 26, 1888, 25 Stat. 491; January 13, 1891, 26 Stat. 716;
November 3, 1893, 28 Stat. 7; February 26, 1901, 31 Stat. 810; April
21, 1904, 33 Stat. 225; June 3, 1916, 39 Stat. 166, 197; June 4, 1920,
41 Stat. 759, 780.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

to determine or in any manner to prescribe the military
instruction in these institutions.

The furnishing of offi-

cers, men and equipment conditioned upon the giving of
courses and the imposing of discipline deemed appropriate, recommended or approved by the Department does
not support the suggestion that the training is not exclusively prescribed and given, under the authority of the
State. The States are interested in the safety of the
United States, the strength of its military forces and its
readiness to defend them in war and against every attack
of public enemies. Gilbert v. Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325,
328-9. State v. Holm, 139 Minn. 267. 273. Undoubtedly
every State has authority to train its able-bodied male
citizens of suitable age appropriatel, to develop fitness,
should any such duty be laid upon them, to serve in the
United States army or in state militia (always liable to
be called forth by federal authority to execute the laws
of the Union, suppress insurrection or repel invasion,
Constitution, Art. I, § 8,.cls. 12, 15 and 16; Selective Draft
Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366, 380-383; State v. Industrial
Conm',n, 1925, 186 Wis. 1; 202 N. W. 191) or as members
of local constabulary forces, or as officers needed effectively to police the State. And, when made possible by
the national government, the State in order more effectively to teach and train its citizens for these and like
purposes, may avail itself of the services of officers and
equipment belonging to the military establishment of the
United States. So long as its action is within retained
powers and not inconsistent with any exertion of the
authority of the national government, and .transgresses no
right safeguarded to the citizen by the Federal Constitution, the State is the sole judge of the means to be employed and the amount of training to be exacted for the
effective accomplishment of these ends. Second Amendment. Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 16-17. Dunne, v.

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

Opinion of the Court.

Peopie, (1879) 94 Ill. 120, 129. 1 Kent's Commentaries
265, 389. Cf: Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252.
The clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment invoked by
appellants declare: "No State shall make or enforce
in
law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizena of the United States; nor shall any State deprive
any person of life, liberty or property. without due process of law." Appellants' contentions are that the enforcement of the order prescribing instruction in mili.
tary science aid tactics abridges some privilege'or immunity covered by the first clause and deprives of liberty safeguarded by the second. The "privileges and
immunities " protected are only those that belong to citizens of the United States as distinguished from citizens
of the States-those that arise from the Constitution and
laws of the United States as contrasted with those that
spring from other sources. Slaughter-House Cases, 16
Wall. 36; 72-74, 77-80. McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S.
1, 38. Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377, 382. Twining
v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 97. Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250
(U. S. 525. 538. Prudential Ins. Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S
530. 539. Appellants assert-unquestionably in good
faith-that all war, preparation for war, and the training
required by the university, are repugnant to the tenets
and discipline of their church, to their religion and to
their consciences. The " privilege " of attending the uni
versity as a sti'dent comes not from federal sources but
is given by the State. It is not within the asserted protection. The only " immunity" claimed by these students is fr . ,in From obligtion to comply with the rule
prescribing military training. But that ' imniunitv
cannot bp regarded as not within, or as distinguishable
from. the : liberty" of which they claim to have been deprived by the enforcement of the regents' order. If the
•cgents' fder i, nrot "erugnaut to the due process clause.
hen it does not Xvio ',te the privileges and imrniujit'c.

.262

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

6lause. Therefore we need only decide whether by state
action the " liberty " of these students has been infringed.
There need be no attempt-to enumerate or comprehensively to define what is included in the " liberty " protected by the due process clause. Undoubtedly it does
include the right to entertain the beliefs, to adhere to the
principles and to teach the doctrines on which these students base their objections to the order prescribing military training. Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, 399.
Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510. Stromberg v.
California, 283 U. S. 359, 368-369. Near v. Minnesota,
283 U. S. 697, 707. The fact that they are able to pay
their way in this university but not in any other institution in California is without significance upon any constitutional or other question here involved. California has
not drafted or called them to attend the university.
They are seeking education offered by the State and at
the same time insisting that they be excluded from the
prescribed course solely upon grounds of their religious
beliefs and conscientious objections to war, preparation
for war and military education. Taken on the basis of
the facts alleged in the petition, appellants' contentions
amount to no more than an assertion that the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as a safeguard of
" liberty " confers the right to be students in the state
university free from obligation to take military training
as one of the -conditions of attendance.
Viewed in the light of our decisions that proposition
must at once be put aside as untenable.
Government, federal and state, each in ,its own sphere
owes a duty to the people within its jurisdiction to preserve itself in adequate strength to maintain peace and
order and to assure the just enforcement of law. And
every citizen owes the reciprocal duty, according to his
capacity, to support and defend government against all

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

Opinion of the Court.

enemies. Selective Draft Law Cases, supra, p. 378.
Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, 166.
United States v. Schwiinmer, 279 U. S. 644, involved 9
petition for naturalization by one opposed to bearing arms
in defense of country. Holding the applicant not entitled
to citizenship, we said (p. 650): " That it is the duty of
citizens by force of arms to defend' our government
against all enemies whenever necessity arises is a fundamental principle of the Constitution. . . . Whatever
tends to lessen the willingness of citizens to discharge
their duty to bear arms in the country's defense detracts
from the strength and safety of the Government."
In United States v. Macintosh, 283 U. S. 605, a later
naturalization case, the applicant was unwilling, because
of the conscientious objections, to take unqualifiedly the
statutory oath of allegiance which contains this statement: "That he will support and defend the Constitution
and laws of the United States against all enemies, foreign
or domestic, and bear true faith and allegiance to the
same." 8 U. S. C., § 381. His petition stated that he
was willing if necessary to take up arms in dfense of this
country, "but I should want to be free to judge of the
necessity." In amplification he said: "I do not undertake to support ' my country, right or wrong' in any dispute which may arise, and I am not willing to promise
beforehand, and without knowing the cause for which my
country may go to war, either that I will or that I will
not 'take up arms in defense of this country,' however
4 necessary 'the war may seem to be to the government of
the day." The opinion of this Court quotes from petitioner's brief a statement to the effect that it is a "fixed
principle of our Constitution, zealously guarded by our
laws, that a citizen cannot be forced and need not bear
arms in a war if he has conscientious religious scruples
against doing so." And, referring to that part of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

argument in behalf of the applicant, this Court said
(p. 623): "This, if it means what it seems to say, is an
astonishing statement. Of course, there is no such principle of the Constitution, fixed or otherwise. The conscientious ob ector is relieved from the obligation to bear
arms in obedience .to no constitutional provision, express
or implied; but because, and only because, it has accorded
with the policy of Congress thus to relieve him. . .
The
privilege of the native-born conscientious objector to
avoid bearing arms comes not from the Constitution but
from the acts of Congress. That body may grant or withhold the exemption as in its wisdom it sees fit; and if it
be withheld, the native-born conscientious objector cannot successfully assert the privilege. No other conclusion
is compatible with the well-nigh limitless extent of the
war powers as above illustrated, which include, by necessary implication, the power, in the last extremity, to compel the armed service of any citizen in the land, without
regard to his objections or his views in respect of the justice or morality of the particular war or of war in general.
In Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11, 29, this Court
[upholding a state compulsory vaccination law] speaking
of the liberties guaranteed to the individual by the Fourteenth Amendment, said: '. . . and yet he may be compelled, by force if need be, against his will and without
regard to his personal wishes or his pecuniary interests,
or even his religious or political convictions, to take his
place in the ranks of the army of his country and risk the
chance of being shot down in its defense.' "
And see University of Maryland v. Coale, 165 Md. 224,
167 Atl. 54, a case, similar to that now before us, decided
against the contention of a student in the University of
Maryland who on conscientious grounds objected to military training there required. His appeal to this Court
was dismissed for the want of a substantial federal question. 290 U. S. 597.

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

CAMOZO, J., concurring.

Plainly there is no ground for the contention that the
regents' order, requiring able-bodied male students under
the age of twenty-four as a condition of their enrollment
to take the prescribed instruction in military science and
tactics, transgresses any constitutional right asserted by
these appellants.
The contention that the regents' order is repugnant to
the Briand-Kellogg Peace Pact requires little consideration. In that instrument the United States and the other
high contracting parties declare -that they condemn recourse to war for the solution of international controversies and renounce it as an instrument of national policy in their relations with one another and agree that the
settlement or solution of all disputes or conflicts which
may arise among them shall never be sought except by
pacific means. Clearly there is no conflict between the
regents' order and the provisions of this treaty.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO.

Concui ring in the opinion I wish to say an extra word.
I assume for present purposes that the religious liberty
protected by the First Amendment against invasion by
the nation is protected by the Fourteenth Amendment
against invasion by the states.
Accepting that premise, I cannot find in the respondents' ordinance an obstruction by the state to " the free
exercise" of religion as ihe phrase was understood by
the founders of the nation, and by the generations that
have followed. Davis v.Beason, 133 U. S.333, 342.
There is no occasion at this time to mark the limits of
governmental power in the exaction of military service
when the nation is at peace.* The petitioners have not
been required to bear arms for any hostile purpose, offensive or defensive, either now or in the future. They have
* As to the duty of the able-bodied citizen to aid in suppressing
crime, see Babington v. Yellow Taxi Corp., 250 N. Y. 14, 16; 164
N. E. 726, nnd the a :horities there assembled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDOZO, J., concurring.

293 U. S.

not even been required in any absolute or peremptory
way to join in courses of instruction that Will fit them to
f they elect to resort to an institution for
bear arms.
higher education maintained with the state's moneys, then
and only then they are commanded to follow courses of
instruction believed by the state to be vital to its welfare.
illiberal
This may be condemned by some as unwise ori
or unfair when there is violence to conscientious scruples,
either religious or merely ethical. More must be shown
to set the ordinance at naught. In controversies of this
order courts do not concern themselves with ,matters of
legislative policy, unrelated to privileges or liberties secured by the organic law. The First Amendment, if it
be read into. the Fourteenth, makes invalid any state law
" respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting
the free exercise thereof." Instruction in military science
is not instruction in the practice or tenets of a religion.
Neither directly nor indirectly is government establishing a state religion when it insists upon such training.
Instruction in military science, unaccompanied here by
any pledge of military service, is not an interference by
the state with the free exercise of religion when the liberties of the constitution are read in the light of a century
and a half of history during days of peace and war.
The meaning of those liberties has striking illustration
in statutes that were eriacted in colonial times and later.
They will be found collected in the opinion of the lower
court in United States v. Macintosh, 42 F. (2d) 845, 847,
848; 283 U. S. 605, 632, and more fully in the briefs of
counsel. From the beginnings of our history Quakers
and other conscientious objectors have been exempted as
an act of grace from military service, but the exemption,
when granted, has been coupled with a condition, at least
in many instances, that they supply the axmy with a
substitute or With .the money necessary to hire one. This

HAMILTON v. REGENTS.
245

CARDOZO, J., concurring.

was done in Virginia in 1738 and 1782 (5 Hening 16; 11
id. 18; cf. 8 id. 242, 243; 10 id. 261, 262; 334, 335); in
Massachusetts, (Acts and Resolves, 1758, vol. 4, p. 159;
1759, 4 id. 193); in North Carolina (1781, 24 State Records 156); and in New York (Colonial Laws, 1755, vol.
3, pp. 1068, 1069). A like practice has been continued in
the constitutions of many of the states. See, e. g., Constitution of Alabama, 1819, 1865, 1867 (F. N. Thorpe,
Federal and State Constitutions, Colonial Charters and
Other Organic Laws, vol. 1, pp. 105, 119, 147); Arkansas,
1868 (Thorpe, vol. 1, p. 325); Colorado, 1876 (Thorpe,
vol. 1, p. 507); Idaho, 1889 (Thorpe, vol. 2, p. 943); Illinois, 1819, 1870 (Thorpe, vol. 2, pp. 980, 1044); Indiana,
1816 (Thorpe, vol. 2. p. 1067); Iowa, 1846, 1857 (Thorpe,
vol. 2, pp. 1132, 1148); Kansas, 1855, 1857, 1859 (Thorpe,
vol. 2, pp. 1190, 1214, 1253); Kentucky, 1792, 1799, 1850,
1890 (Thorpe, vol. 3, pp. 1271, 1283, 1307, 1350); Louisiana, 1879, 1898 (Thorpe, vol. 3, pp. 1501, 1587); Michigan, 1850 (Thorpe, vol. 4, p. 1966); Mississippi, 1817
(Thorpe, vol. 4, p. 2041); Missouri, 1820, 1875 (Thorpe,
vol. 4, pp. 2164, 2268; New Hampshire, 1794, 1902
(Thorpe, vol. 4, pp. 2472, 2495); New York, 1821, 1846
(Thorpe, vol. 5, pp. 2648, 2671); Pennsylvania, 1790,
1838 (Thorpe, vol. 5, pp. 3099, 3111); Vermont, 1793
(Thorpe, vol. 6, p. 3763). For one opposed to force, the
affront to conscience must be greater in furnishing men
and money wherewith to wage a pending contest than in
studying military science without the duty or the pledge
of service. Never in our history has the notion been accepted, or even, it is believed, advanced, that acts thus
indirectly related to service in the camp or field are so
tied to the practice of religion as to be exempt, in law or
in morals, fron regulation by the state. On the contrary,
the very lawmakers who were willing to give release from
warlike acts had no thought that they were doing any-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

thing inconsistent with the moral claims of an objector,
still less with his constitutional immunities, in coupling
the exemption with these collateral conditions.
Manifestly a different doctrine would carry us to
lengths that have never yet been dreamed of. The conscientious objector, if his liberties were to be thus extended, might refuse to contribute taxes in furtherance
of a war, whether for attack or for defense, or in furtherance of any other end condemned by his conscience
as irreligious or immoral. The right of private judgment
has never yet been so exalted above the powers and the
compulsion of the agencies of government. One who is
a martyr to a principle-which may turn out in the-end
to be a delusion or an error-does not prove'by his martyrdom that he has kept within the law.

I am authorized to state that MR.
and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

join in this opinion.

INDIANA FARMER'S GUIDE PUBLISHING CO. v.
PRAIRIE FARMER PUBLISHING CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 60.

Argued November 8, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. A business of publishing and circulating farm journals, which involves shipment of substantial quantities of the papers to other
States, and also the obtaining of advertising essential to the bus:ness from cu9tomers in other States and the transportation between
customers and publishers over state lines of electrotypes used in
setting up the advertisements, involves interstate commerce.
Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S. 436, distinguished. P. 274.
2. To constitute a combination to restrain or monopolize a business
in interstate commerce, within the meaning of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act, it is not necessary that the restraint or monopoly

