188

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

293 U. S.

In an action to recover the tax paid by the petitioner
under the two assessments in controversy, the District
Court held (1) that irrespective of any waiver the term of
limitation ran from the date of the Additional return, and
(2) that the waivers were valid and binding. I F. Supp.
508. On the authority of decisions in the Ninth Circuit
(Zellerbach Paper Co. and National Paper Products Co.
v. Commissioner, 69 F. (2d) 852, 857), the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed ruling No. 1 and
did not pass upon the correctness of ruling No. 2. :70 F.
(2d) 102.
For the reasons stated in our opinions in Nos. 37 to 39,
and in Nos. 35 and 46, the first ruling is erroneous. The
second ruling we do not consider,, the question of the
validity of the waivers being still openfor determination
in the court beloW.
The decree should be reversed, and the cause remanded
to the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit for further
proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
ABRAMS ET AL. v. VAN SCHAICK, SUPERINTENDENT OF INSURANCE, Er AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 186. Argued November 12, 1934.-Decided November 19, 1934.
A judgment of a'state court refusing to enjoin proceedings under a
state statute: alleged to be unconstitutional does not present a

substantial federal question when the outcome of those proceedings,
if pursued, and its effect upon the federal rights aserted by the
complainant, are matters of conjecture.
Appeal from 264 N..Y. 475, dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment, entered on remittitur, which
reversed an injunction order of the Supreme Court of
New York (150 Misc. 467) and denied the injunction.

ABRAMS v. VAN SCHAICK.
188

Per Curiam.

Messrs. Samuel Untermyer. James M. Beck, and Edward Endelman submitted for appellants.
Mr. Morris L. Ernst, with whom Messrs. Laprence S.
Greenbaum and Benjamin Kaplan were on the brief, for
Van Schaick, appellee.
Mr. Samuel Kramer for Silverberg, appellee-intervener.
By leave of Court, Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney
General, and Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, filed
a brief on behalf of the State of New York, as amicus
curiae.
PER CURIAM.

The Court of Appeals of the State of New York reversed
an order of the Special Term of the Supreme Court
which enjoined the Superintendent of Insurance from
making any payments for expenditures incurred in connection with plans of reorganization promulgated under
Chapter 745 of the Laws of 1933 relating to guaranteed
participating certificates sold by the New York Title and
Mortgage Company. The motion for injunction, denied
by the Court of Appeals, was made in advance of the
promulgation of a plan by the Superintendent of Insurance applicable to the interests of the appellants.
Whether, if a plan of reorganization is promulgated by
the Superintendent of Insurance it will be approved by
the Court as required by the statute, or whether,. if so
approved, it will be opposed by certificate holders, or will
receive the assent of the present appellants, or will operate to deprive them of any asserted constitutional right,
are matters of conjecture.
The appeal is dismissed tor the want of a substantial
federal question. Liverpool, N. .Y. & P. S. S. Co. v. Commissioners of Emigration, 113 U. S. 33, 39; Californiav.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Per Curiam.

293 U. S.

San Pablo & Tulare R. Co., 149 U. S. 308, 314; Stearns
v. Wood, 236 U. S. 75, 78; Cincinnati v. Vester, 281 U. S.
439, 449.
Dismissed.
E. R. SQUIBB & SONS v. MALLINCKRODT CHEMICAL WORKS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 42.' Argued November 7, 1934.-Decided November 19, 1934.
Where an appeal is properly before the Circuit Court of Appeals
and, upon hearing it, the court determines that such assignments of
error as have been duly filed have been abandoned, the court may
affirm the decree.

QUESTIONS certified by the court below after it had
affirmed an interlocutory decree enjoining infringement of
the plaintiff's patent, see 69 F. (2d) 685, and after a
petition for, rehearing had been filed.
Mr. Frederick H. Wood for E. R. Squibb & Sons.
Mr. Frank Y. Gladney, with whom Mr. Lawrence C.
Kingsland was on the l ief, for Mallinckrodt Chemical'
Works.
PER CURIAM.

The Circuit Court of Appeals has certified the following questions:
"Question 1. Where, on an appeal properly" in this
court, the appellee contends that one of the assignments
'of errors has been- abandoned and all others are not presentable because defective either as assignments of errors
or as specifications of errors and urges affirmance of the
decree appealed from and this court determines that such
contention is well founded in all respects and that no
issue on the merits is, for such reasons, presentable to it,
is it proper to affirm the decree appealed from?

