OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

219 U. 8,

certificate of purchase issued to Jones these words were
written: "This receipt is issued under the order of the
Secretary of the Interior, dated February 28th, 1898, subject to any claim the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
may have to the lands herein described." Of course, the
Secretary had no authority to do this, and his act had no
legal efficacy.' If the Railroad Company had rights superior to those acquired by Jones those rights could have
been protected despite the certificate issued to Jones. If
it had none, then the endorsement across the face of the
certificate is to be regarded simply as a warning to Jones
that he might have in the future a contest with the Railroad Company. The endorsement that Jones' purchase
was subject to any claim the company "may have,"
neither added nor took away rights that belonged at the
time to either the company or to Jones.
In our opinion the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be affirmed.

CAMPBELL v. WEYERHAEUSER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 12. Argued 4pril 27, 28, 1910.-Restored to docket for reargument
December 19, 1910.-Reargued January. 19, 20, 1911.-Decided February 20, 1911.

Decided on authority of Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, ante, p. 380.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn and Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with
whom Mr. Stiles W. Burr was on the brief, for appellants
in No. 24 and appelleeg in No. 12.

CAMP3ELL v. WWAIRIAEUSER.
2i9 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiffs in error in No. 181.
Mr. M. H. Stanford, with whom Mr. H. H. Hoyt was
on the brief, for appellees in No. 24 and appellants in
No. 12.
Mr. P. B. Gorman for defendant in error in No. 181.1
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
This case and the Hoyt case, just decided, are of.the same
general character, and were consolidated and tried below
as one case. In this case, however, the application of
Campbell to purchase the tract by him claimed was rejected by the Land Department, and Campbell was not
permitted to enter the land. The land furnishing the selection basis also lay further west in Minnesota than the
lost tract in the Hoyt case. The Court of Appeals held that
Campbell acquired no equitable interest in the land by his
application, and the denial thereof, and consequently he
could not maintain a bill in equity to charge the title under
the patent issued to the railroad company upon a selection
of a tract as lieu land, and affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill. As in any event the decision rendered in the Hoyt case is decisive of this, we hold
that the bill was rightly dismissed, and the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE DAY

dissent

for the reasons set forth in the dissenting opinion in case
of Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, ante, p. 380.
'This case was argued simultaneously with No. 24, Weyerhaeuser v.
Hoyt, ante, p. 380, and No. 181, Northern Pacific Railway Company v.
Wass, post, p. 426.

