LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 467
'219 U. S.

Syllabus.

Kansa8, 216 U. S.27; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U... 137; and
M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, may be consulted.
Judgment affirmed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. MOTTLEY.
ERROR TO THE'COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 246.' Submitted January 9, 1911.-Decided February 20, 1911.
The intent of Congress is to be gathered from the words of the act
according to their ordinary acceptation, and the act should be construed in the light of circumstances existing at the time it was passed.
Personal hardships cannot be considered, nor can the court mold the
statute to meet its views of.jtce in a particular case.
The court must have regard to all the words used by Congress in a
statute and give effect to them as far as possible; and the introduction of a new word into a statute indicates an intent to cure a defect
in, and suppress an evil not covered by,:the former law.
The prohibition of the act of IFebruary 4, 1887, c. 104, § 2, 24 Stat.
379, as arhended by the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584,
against a carrier charging a different compensation:from that specified in its published tariff extends to the granting of interstate
tansportation by carriers as compensation for injuries, services,
advertising or property; the statute means that transportation shall
be paid for by all alike and only in cash.
The purpose of Congress in enacting the amendatory act of June 29,
1906, was to cut up by the roots every form of discrimination in
rates, not specially excepted, and the act applied to existing contracts and rendered those which were discriminatory illegal.
The court cannot on equitable grounds add an exception to the classes
to which a statute clearly applies if Congress forbears to do so.
rhe power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States and
with foreign nations is complete and unrestricted except by limitations in the Constitution itself, and extends to rendering impossible

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

the enforcement by suit of contracts between carriers and shippers
although valid when made.
The power of Congress to act in regard to matters delegated to it is
not hampered by contracts made in regard to such matters by individuals; but contracts of that nature are made subject to the possibility that -even if valid when made Congress may by exercising its
power render them invalid:
An 'act of Congress rendering contracts in regard to interstate commerce invalid does not infringe the constitutional liberty of the
citizen to make contracts; and an act, otherwise constitutional, is
not unconstitutional under the Fifth Amendment, as taking private
property without compensation, because it invalidates contracts
between individuals which conflict with the public policy declared
in the act.
After. the enactment of the act of June 29, 1906, it was unlawful for a
carrier to issue interstate transportation in pursuance of a prior
existing contract to do so as compensation for injuries received, and,
even though valid when made, such a contract cannot now be enforced against the carrier by suit.
133 Kentucky, 652, reversed.

facts, which involve the construction of provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act relating to payment of
fares on railways, are stated in the opinion.
* THE

Mr. Henry L. Stone for plaintiff in error:
The object of the act of June 29, 1906, was to prevent
discrimination, and to place all passenger8 and shippers
on the same level, with equal rights and privileges. While
Congress may not pass an act for the purpose of impairing the obligation of specific contracts, it may in the due
exercise of the powers- expressly conferred upon it, incidentally do so. Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 550; Bullard
v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 10 Montana, 168. See also
8 Cyc. 997; Newport News Co. v. McDonald Brick Co.,
109 Kentucky, 408; Fitzgerald v. Construction Co., 59
'N. W. Rep. 862; Southern Wire Co. v. St. Louis Bridge
Co., 38 Mo. App. 191; Fitzgerald v. Grand Trunk R. R.

Co. (Vt.), 22 Atl. Rep. 76, 77.

These. foregoing decisions

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 469
219 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

were rendered prior to the passage of the Hepburn Bill of
June 29, 1906, and, of course, apply with still greater
force since that act took effect. The power of Congress to
regulate commerce is paramount and is unrestrained, except by the limitations in the Constitution upon its authority. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Addyston Pipe
& Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 228; Scranton v.
Wheeler, 179 U. S. 162. The only limitation prescribed
by the Constitution is that the laws enacted by Congress
to carry into execution this power shall be necessary and
proper. That is a question wholly and exclusively within
the province of Congress to determine. Kentucky Bridge
Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 34 Am. & Eng. R. Cas. 630;
S. C., 37 Fed. Rep. 567. As to what is a vested right in
the constitutional sense, see Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed.,
509; Bradford v. Jenkins, 41 Mississippi, 328, 335. Due
process of law as used in the Fifth Amendment includes
not only the established mode of procedure in the courts,
but also legislative acts within constitutional powers.
Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed., 502; 3 Words and Phrases,
2228. Where no exception is made in terms, none will be
made by mere implication or construction. Rhode Island
v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 892; Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 494. For the court to go beyond that
limitation is not to construe, but to legislate. See Armour
Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Endlich.on
Statutes, §§ 4-8; Mottley v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 150 Fed.
Rep. 406; United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141-163;
United States v. Wells-Fargo Express Co., 161 Fed. Rep.
606.
Interstate passenger transportation must be paid for
in money. Decisions of Interstate Commerce Commission relative to Railroad Passes and Free Transportation,
Sen. Doc., No. 226, 60th Cong., 1st Sess., February 6,
1908, p. 18; Conference Rulings of Interstate Commerce
Commission, December 28, 1909, p. 57; C., B. & Q. Ry.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Error.
Argument for Defendants ir%

219 U. S.

Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 90; Un. Pac. Ry.Co. v. Good-

ridge, 149 U. S. 690, 691; Gulf, Colo. -&c. Ry. Co. v.
Hefley, 158 U. S.98; Int. Comm. Comm. v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co., 200 U. S.361; Texas & Pac.Ry. Co. v. Mugg,
202 'U. S. 242; Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Co., 204 U. S. 439; Poor Grain Co. v. C., B. & Q. Ry. Co.,
12 I. C. C. Rep. 418, 469; United States v.Chicago, I. & L.
Ry. Co., 163 Fed. Rep. 114; United States v. Atchison, T."&
S. F. Ry. Co., 163 Fed..Rep. 111; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep. 250; State v. Martyn,
117 N. W. Rep. 719; S. C., 23 L. R. A. (N. S.)'217; McNeill v. Durham & C. Ry. Co., 132 No. Car. 510.
Mr. Lewis McQuown and Mr. Clarence U. McElroy for
defendants in error:
The act of June 29, 1906, does not cover this case and
Congress did not intend it to. The sole purpose of the act
in this respect was to forbid, under penalty, all carriers
from giving free passes, and to forbid, under like penalty,
every person not in the excepted class, from using such
free passes. The only argument needed is to show that
this provision does not touch the facts of this case. Section 6 of the act of 1906 does not cover this case. It
was not the legislative intent to fine a carrier from $1,000
to $20,000 for issuing a ticket that had been paid for.
If Congress had intended the act to embrace a case like
'this, it would have said so, and should have said so, and
the fact that it did not say so, is evidence conclusive
that it had no such purpose, The act of 1906 was never
intended to reach a case like the one at bar, and this construction is not only consonant with sound priiiciple, with
common sense, and with justice; but it is believed to be
fully justified by the facts. See United States v..Kirby, 7
Wall. 486; All general terms in the statutes should be
limited in their application so as not to lead to injustice,
oppression or unconstitutional operation, if that be possi-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 471
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ble. It will be presumed that the exceptions were intended which would avoid results of that character.
Carlisle v. United States, 16 Wall. 153; Chew Heong v.
United States, 112 U. -S. 555; Holy Trinity Church v.
United States, 143 U. S. 457; Bate Refrigerator Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 37 Market Co. V. Hoffman, 101 U. S.
116; Brewer's Lessee v. Bloucher, 14 Pet. 78; Auffm'ordt v.
Rasin, 102 U. S. 620; Cook v. United States, 138 U. S. 181.
The act of June 29, 1906, would not be constitutional
if applied to a case like the one at bar and this court could
not enforce such a law. Congress has vast power. It is a
potent arm of the Government, but it is not omnipotent.
When a private citizen has made a lawful contract, has
executed that contract fully so far as his obligation is concerned, and has parted with his money or property on the
faith of the inviolability of his contract, that contract
cannot be confiscated, simply because Congress has power
to regulate commerce between the States. Wilkerson v.
Leland, 2 Pet. 657; Osborne v. Nicholson, 13 Wall. 654;
Railroad Co. v. Richmond, 19 Wall. 584.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
As the result of a collision in Kentucky of railroad
trains belonging to the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, which operated various lines extending through
that Commonwealth as well as into Tennessee and other
States, the plaintiffs Mottley and wife received serious
liersonal injuries. The collision, it is alleged, was caused
by the gross carelessness and negligence of the agents and
servants of the railroad company.
After the collision the plaintiffs and the company on the
second of October, 1871, entered into a written agreement
of which the following is a copy:
"The Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company in consideration that E. L.:Mottley and wife, Annie E. Mottley,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

have this day released said company from all damages or
claims for damages for injuries received by them on the
seventh day of September, 1871, in consequence of a collision of trains on the railroad of said company at .Randolph's Station, Jefferson County, Ky., hereby agrees-to
issue free passes on said railroad and branches now existing or to exist, to said E. L. Mottley and Annie E..Mottley-.
for the remainder of the present year and therefter to
renew said passes annually during the lives of said Mottley
and wife or either of them."
The railroad company adhered strictly to this. agTeement for many years, but finally refused further to perform it on the ground that the act of Congress of June 29,
1906, amendatory of the act regulating commerce, approved February 4, 1887, made its enforcement illegal.
Thereupon Mottley and wife brought suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of
Kentucky to enforce the agreement and obtained: a decree
in their favor. 150 Fed. Rep. 406. But upon a direct appeal to this court that decre6 was reversed and the case
was remanded with directions to dismiss the suit for want
of jurisdiction. L. & N. R. R. v. Mottley, 211 U. S. 149 ;
Metcalfe v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586; Tennessee'v. Union
-Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454, 459. The grounds upon
which the Federal court was held to be. without -jurisdiction are not important here.
The present action was brought in the Circuit Court of
Warren County, Kentucky. The relief sought was. that
the defendant company be required specifically to execute
the above agreement by issuing passes to the plaintiffs *for
the year 1909 and for every year thereafter so long as the.
plaintiffs should each live, over all its roads in and..out of
Kentucky'.
The railroad company resists any judgment that Would
compel it further to perform the agreement sued on. It
bases its defense mainly on the commerce act of Congress

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 473
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of June 29, 1906, which became effective August 28, 1906,
34 Stat. 838, Pt. I, Res. No. 47. By that statute Congress,
among other things, provided:
"SEC. 1. . . . No common carrier subject to the
provisions of this act shall, after January first, nineteen
hundred and seven, directly or indirectly, issue or give
any interstate free ticket, free pass, or free transportation
for passengers," except to certain specified persons, the
plaintiffs not being within any of the excepted classes.
"SEC. 6. . . . No carrier, unless otherwise provided by this act, shall engage or participate in the transportation of passengers or property, as defined in this act,
unless the rates, fares and charges upon which the same
are transported by said carrier have been filed and published in accordance with the provisions of this act; nor
shall any carrier charge or demand or collect or receive a
greater or less or different compensation for such transportation of passengers or property, or for any service in
connection therewith, between the points named in such
tariffs than the rates, fares and charges which are specified
in the tariff filed and in effect at the time; nor shall any
carrier refund or remit in any manner or by any device
any portion of the rates, fares and charges so specified, nor
extend to any shipper or person any privileges or facilities
in the transportation of passengers or property, except
such as are specified in such tariffs. Feb. 4, 1887, c. 104,
24 Stat. 379; June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, 586, Pt. II,
c. 3591.
The act of June 29, 1906, regulating commerce and enlarging the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission, made its provisions applicable to "any common carrier or carriers engaged in the transportation of passengers
or property wholly by railroad . . . from one State or
Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia,
to any other State or Territory of the United States or the
District of Columbia, etc.;" and in this respect it has not

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

been amended. It also provides that a common carrier
violating the clause forbidding it after January 1, 1907,
directly or indirectly to issue or to give any interstate free
ticket, free pass or free transportation for passengers
should pay to the United States a penalty of not less than
$100,nor more than $2,000. Any person (other than those
of the excepted classes) who used any .such interstate free
ticket; free pass or free transportation became subject to a
like penalty. Ib. 585, § 1.
The state circuit court, giving the relief' asked, by its
judgment required the railroad company to issue to the
plaintiffs and to each of them a pass over its lines and
branches for the year 1909, and thereafter to renew such
passes annually during their respective lives.
Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky that
judgment was affirmed. L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 133
Kentucky, 652.
It may be, as suggested, that a refusal to enforce the
agreement of 1871 will operate as a great hardship upon
the defendants in error. But that consideration cannot
control the determination of this controversy. Our duty
is to ascertain the intention of Congress in passing the
statute upon which the railroad company relies as prohibitive of the further enforcement of the agreement in
suit. That intention is to be gathered from the words of
the act, interpreted according to their ordinary acceptation, and, when it becomes necessary to do so, in the light
of the circumstances asthey existed when the statute was
passed. Platt v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 99 U. S. 48, 64.
Thd court cannot mold a statute simply to meet its views
of justice in a particular case. Having, in the mode indicated, ascertained the will of the legislative department,
the statute as enacted must be executed, unless found to
beinconsistent with the Supreme Law of- the Land.
In our consideration of the case it will be assumedindeed the parties themselves assume-that the agree-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 475
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment of 1871 was not when made in conflict with the
Constitution or laws of the United States. But we must
first inquire whether such an agreement, if made after the
passage of the original and amendatory commerce acts,
would have been valid under those acts. If those acts
forbid agreements of that character we must then inquire

whether the one in suit can be now enforced simply because it was valid when made.
The act of February 4, 1887 regulating commerce declared it to be an unjust and unlawful discrimination for
any carrier subject to the provisions of that act, directly
or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback or
other device, to charge, demand, collect or receive from
any person or persons "a greater or less compensation"
for any service rendered or to be rendered in the transportation of passengers or property than was charged,
demanded, collected or received from any other person or
persons for doing him or them a like and contemporaneous
service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under
substantially similar circumstances and conditions. 24
Stat. 379, c. 104, § 2. But the act of June 29, 1906 made
a material addition to the words of the act of 1887; for, it
expressly prohibited any carrier, unless otherwise provided, to demand, collect or receive "a greater or less or
different compensation" for the transportation of persons
or property, or for any service in connection therewith,
than the rates, fares and charges specified in the tariff
filed and in effect .at the time. We cannot suppose that
this change was without a distinct purpose on the part of
Congress. The words "or different," looking at the context, cannot be regarded as superfluous or meaningless.
We must have regard to all the words used by Congress,
and as far as possible give effect to them. Market v. Hoffman, 101 U. S. 112, 115. The history of the acts relating
to commerce shows, that Congress, when introducing into
the act of 1906 the word "different," had in mind the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

pose of curing a defect in the law and of suppressing evil
practices under it by prohibiting the carrier from charging or receiving compensation except as indicated in its
published tariff. 11th Ann. Rep. Interstate Com. Com.,
141; 19th lb. 78, 15; 40 Cong. Rec. Pt. 7, p. 6608; Ib.
6617; Ib.7428, 7434; Rept. of Confer. Com., 40 Cong.
Rec. 9522; 42 Cong. Rec. Pt. 2, p. 1746.
In our opinion, after the passage of the commerce act
the railroad company could not lawfully accept from
Mottley and wife any compensation "different" in kind
from that mentioned in its published schedule of rates.
And it cannot be doubted that the rates or charges specified in such schedule were payable only in money. They
could not be paid in any other way, without producing the
utmost confusion and defeating the policy established by
the acts regulating commerce. The evident purpose of
Congress was to establish uniform rates for transportation, to give all the same opportunity to know what the
rates were as well as to have the equal benefit of them.
To that end the carrier was required to print, post and
file its schedules and to-keep them open to public inspection. No change could be made in the rates embraced by
the schedules except upon notice to the Commission and
to the public. But an examination of the schedules would
.be of no avail and would not ordinarily be of any practical
value if the published rates could be disregarded in special
or particular cases by the acceptance of property of various kinds, and of such Value as 'the parties immediatelyconcerned chose to put upon it, in place of money for the
services performed by the carrier.
That money only was receivable for transportation is
the basis upon Which the Interstate Commerce Commission has proceeded; for, in one of its Conference Rulings (207) issued in 1909, the Commission held that nothing but money could be lawfully received or accepted in
payment for transportation, whether of passengers or

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 477
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property, for any service connected therewith, "it being
the opinion of the Commission that the prohibition against
the charging or collecting a greater or less or different
compensation than the established rates or fares in effect
at the time precludes the acceptance of service, property
or'other payment in lieu of the amount specified in the
published schedules." It is now the established rule that
a carrier cannot depart to any extent from its published
schedule of rates for interstate transportation on file without incurring the penalties of the statute. Union Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Goodridge, 149 U. S. 690, 691; Gulf, Col. &c.
Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98, 102; 1. C. C. v. Ches. &
Ohio Ry. Co., 200 U. S.361, 391; Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S.426, 439. That rule was
established in execution of a public policy which, it seems,
Congress deliberately adopted as applicable to the interstate transportation of persons or property. The passenger has no right to buy tickets with services, advertising,
releases or property, nor can the railroad company buy
services, advertising, releases or-property with transportation. The statute manifestly means that the purchase of
a transportation ticket by a passenger and its sale by the
company shall be consummated only by the former paying cash and by the latter receiving cash of the amount
specified in the, published tariffs. In the first of the cases
last above cited (the Goodridge case) the court, referring
to the practice of allowing rebates, said: "So opposed is
the policy of the act to secret rebates of this description
that it requires a printed copy of the classification and
schedule of rates to be posted conspicuously in each passenger station for the use of the patrons of the road, that
every one may be apprised, not only of what the company
will exact of him for a particular service,, but what it
exacts of every one else for the same service, so that in
fixing his own prices he may know precisely with what he
has to compete. To hold a defense thus pleaded to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

valid would open the door to the grossest frauds upon the
law, and practically enable the railroad company to avail
itself of any consideration for a rebate which it considers
sufficient, and to agree with the favored customer upon
some fabricated claim for damages which it would be
difficult, if not impossible, to disprove. For instance, under the defense made by this company, there is nothing
to prevent a customer of the road, who has received a personal injury, from making a claim against the road for
any amount he chooses, and in consideration thereof, and
of shipping all his goods by that road, receiving a rebate
for all goods he may ship overthe road for an indefinite
time in the future. It is almost needless to say that such
a contract could not be supported. There is no doubt of
the general proposition that the release of an unliquidated
claim for damages is a good consideration for a promise,
as between the parties, and if no one else were interested
in the transaction, that rule might apply here; but the
.legislature, upon grounds of public policy, and for the
protection of third partie.., has made certain requirements with regard to. equality of rates which, in their
practical application, would be rendered nugatory if this
rule were given full effect." That Congress had the constitutional power to adopt such a policy and to prescribe
appropriate means to give it effect, we .do not doubt.
It is said, however, that as the contract of Mottley and
wife with the railroad company was originally valid, it
cannot be supposed that Congress intended by the act of
1906 ,to annul or prevent its enforcement. But the purpose of Congress was to cut up by the roots every form of
discrimination, favoritism and inequality, except in the
cases of certain excepted classes to which Mottley and his
wife did not belong and which exceptions rested upon
peculiar grounds. Manifestly, from the face of the commerce act itself, Congress, before taking final action, considered the question as to what exceptions, if any, should

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTEY. 479
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be made in respect of the prohibition of free tickets, free
passes and free transportation. It solved the question
when, without making any exceptions of existing contracts,
it forbade by broad, explicit words any carrier to charge,
demand, collect or receive a "greater or less or different
compensation" for any services in connection with the
transportation of passengers or property than was specified in its published schedules of rates. The court cannot
add an exception based on equitable grounds when Congress forbore to make such an exception. Yturbide v.
United States, 22 How. 290, 293. The words of the act
therefore must be taken to mean that a carrier, engaged
in interstate commerce, cannot charge, collect or receive
for transportation on its road anything but money. In
Armour Packing Company v. United States, 209 U. S. 56,
81, this court said: "There is no provision excepting
special contracts from the operation of the law. One rate
is to be charged, and that the one fixed and published in
the manner pointed out in the statute, and subject to
change in the only way open by the statute. There is no
provision for the filirg of contracts with shippers and no
method of making them public defined in the statute. If
the rates are subject to secret alteration by special agreement then the statute will fail of its purpose to establish a
rate duly published, known to all, and from which neither
shipper nor carrier may depart." So, in Adams Express
Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 522, 532, 533: "But the
power of Congress over interstate transportation embraces all manner of carriage of that character-whether
gratuitous or otherwise-and, in the absence of express
exceptions, we think it was the intention of Congress to
prevent a departure from the published rates and schedules
in any manner whatsoever. If this be not so, a wide door
is opened to favoritism in the carriage of property in the
instances mentioned, free of charge. If it is lawful, in
view of the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

issue franks of the character under consideration in this
case, then this right must be founded upon some exception
incorporated in the act."
It is further said that the passes contemplated by the
parties were not strictly free passes; for, it is argued, the
railroad company would receive a valuable consideration
for each one issued by it. This view is more plausible than
sound, and does not meet the difficulty. Suffice it to say,
in this case, that such lasses, when. issued, would be illegal under the act of Congress, by reason of their not
being paid for in money, according to the company's
schedule of rates, .but in consideration only of the release
by Mottley and wife of their claim for damages on account of the collision in question.
We now come to the question whether, assuming that
the agreement of 1871 was valid when made, could Congress by any statute subsequently enacted make its enforcement by suit impossible? There are certain propositions at the base of this inquiry which we need not discuss
at large, because they have become thoroughly established
in our constitutional jurisprudence. One is, that the
power--granted to Congress to regulate commerce among
the States and with foreign nations is complete in itself,
and is unrestricted except by the limitations upon its
authority to be found in the Constitution. Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419;
Addyston Pipe and Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.
211, 229; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 162, 163;
C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Drainage Com'rs, 200 U. S. 561;
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, 400;
Atlantic Coast Line &c. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186,
202.
In the Addyston Pipe case, this court sAid that, under
its power to regulate commerce, Congress "may enact
such legislation as shall declare void and prohibit the performance of any contract between individuals or corpora-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 481
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tions where the natural and direct effect of such a contract will be, when carried out, to directly, and not as a
mere incident to other and innocent purposes, regulate to
any substantial extent interstate commerce."
In the Scranton ease, where a riparian owner sought
compensation from the Government because his access
to navigability had been materially obstructed by a pier
constructed by the Government on the submerged grounds
in front of his land, this court said: "The riparian owner
acquired the right of access to navigability subject to the
contingency that such right might be'come valueless in consequence of the erection under competent authority of
structures on the submerged lands in front of his property
for the purpose of improving na-igation. When erecting
the pier in question, the Government had. no object in
view except, in the interest of the public, to improve navigation. It was not designed arbitrarily-or. capriciously to
destroy rights belonging to any riparian owner. What
was done was manifestly necessary to meet the demands
of international and interstate commerce."
In the Union Bridge Co. case the question was as to the
constitutional authority of the Government to require the
Bridge Company to make certain changes or alterations
in a bridge across a navigable river of the United States,
in Pennsylvania, and -which bridge the company owned
and constantly used. It was admitted that the bridge
had been lawfully erected. But ultimately, in view of the
necessities of 'interstate commerce, it had become an unreasonable obstruction to free, open navigation by vessels
and boats then in use, and, for that. reason alone, the
Government, by its constituted authorities proceeding
under an act of Congress, ordered the Bridge Company
at its own cost to make certain changes and alterations in
the struqcture. This court held that there was no taking of
property for public use in the constitutional sense, and that
although the bridge when erected under the authority of
VoL. ccxix-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Pennsylvania may have been a lawful structure, and although it may not have been an unreasonable obstruction
to commerce, as then carried on, "it must be taken, under
the cases cited and-upon principle, not only that the company, when exerting the power conferred upon it by the
State, did so with knowledge of the paramount authority
of Congress to regulate commerce among the States, but
that it erected the bridge subject' to the possibility that
'Congressmig]t, at some future time, when the public interest
demanded, exert its power by appropriate legislation to
protect navigation against unreasonable obstructions."
Long before the above cases were decided it was said in
Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457, 550, 551, that "as in a state of
civil society, property of a citizen or subject is ownership,
subject to the lawful demands of.the Sovereign, so contracts must be understood as made i reference to the
possible exercise of the rightful authority of the Government, and no obligation of a contract can extend to the
defeat of legitimate government authority."
Thesg principles control the decision of the present question. The agreement between the railroad company and
the Mottleys must necessarily be regarded as having been
made subject to the possibility that, at some future time,
Congress might so exert its whole constitutional power in
regulating interstate commerce as to render that agreement unenforceable or to impair its value. That the exercise of such power may be hampered or restricted to any
extent by contracts previously made between individuals
or corporations, is inconceivable. The framers of the Constitution never intended any such state of things to exist.
It is said that if Congress- intqnded by the commerce
act to embrace such a case as this, then the act is repugnant to the Constitution. Does the act infringe upon the
constitutional liberty of the citizen to make contracts?
Manifestly not. In the Addyston Pipe case (p. 228)
above cited, the court said.: "We do 'not assent to the

LOUISVILLE & NASJIVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 483
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

,correctness of the proposition that the constitutional
guaranty of liberty to the individual to enter into private
contracts limits the power of Congress and prevents it
from legislating upon the subject of contracts," relating
to interstate commerce. Again: "But it has never been,
and in our opinion ought not to be, held that the word
[liberty] included the right of an individual to enter into
private contracts upon all subjects, no matter what their
nature and wholly irrespective (among other things) of
the fact that they would, if performed, result in the regulation of interstate commerce, and in the violation of an
act of Congress upon that subject. The provision in the
Constitution does not, as we believe, exclude Congress
from legislating with regard to contracts of the above
nature, while in the exercise of its constitutional right to
regulate commerce among the States.

.

.

.

Anything

which directly obstructs and thus regulates that commerce which is carried on among the States, whether it is
state legislation or private'contracts between individuals
or corporations, should be subject to the power of Congress in the regulation of that commerce."
These authorities and principles condemn the proposition that the defendants in error had the constitutional
right, pursuant to or because of the agreement of 1871 and
during their respective lives, to accept and use free transportation for themselves, as passengers, on an interstate
train, after Congress forbade, under penalty any interstate carrier to demand, collect or receive compensation
for transportation or any interstate passenger, not within
the classes, excepted by the act, to use transportation
tickets, except upon the basis fixed by the carrier's published schedule of rates. After the commerce act came
into* effect no contract that was inconsistent with the
regulations established by the act of Congress could be
enforced in any court. The rule upon this subject is
thoroughly established.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

It is not determinative of the present -question that the
rommerce act as now construed will render the contract
of no value for the purposes for which it was made.

In

Knox v. Lee, 12 Will. 457, above cited, the court, referring
to the Fifth Amendment, which forbids the taking of
private property for public use without just compensation

or due process of law, said: "That provision has always
been understood as referring only to a direct appropriation, and not to consequential injuries resulting from the
exercise of lawful power. It has never been supposed to

have any bearing upon or to inhibit laws that indirectly
work harm and loss to individuals. A new tariff, an embargo, a draft, or a war, may inevitably bring upon individuals great losses; may, indeed, render valuable prop-

erty almost valueless. They may destroy the worth of
contracts."
In Fitzgerald v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 63 Vermont, 169,
173, which was the case of a contract for the transportation of lumber through several States, the Supreme Court
of Vermont said: "Such commerce i. solely regulated by
Congress, and when parties make contracts to engage in
interstate commerce they are held to do so upon the basis
and with the understanding that changes in the law applicable to their contracts may be made. There can, in
the nature of things, be no vested right in an existing law
which precludes its change or repeal, nor vested right in
the omission to legislate upon a particular subject which
exempts a contract from the effect of subsequent legislation upon its subject matter by competent legislative authority."
In Pomeroy on Contracts, § 280 (Specific Performance),
after observing that an illegal contract cannot be made the
basis of any judicial proceeding and that no action in law
or equity could be maintained upon it, said: "This impossibility of enforcement exists, whether the agreement
is illegal in its inception, or whether being valid when

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. MOTTLEY. 485
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made, the illegality has been created by a , ,ibsequent
statute." Among the cases cited by the auth' r in support of that view was Atkinson v. Ritchie, 10 East. 530,
534, in which the Chief Justice, Lord Ellenborough, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "That no contract
can properly be carried into effect, which was originally
made contrary to the provisions of law, or which being
made consistently with the rules of law at the time, has
become illegal in virtue of some subsequent law, are
propositions which admit of no doubt." In Kentucky &
Indiana Bridge Company v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co., 34 Am. & Eng. R. Cpses, 630, Judge Cooley said:
"But the act to regulate commerce is a general law, and
contracts are always liable to be more or less affected by
general laws, even when in no way referred to.
But this incidental effect of the general law is not understood to make it a law impairing the obligation of contracts. It is a necessary effect of any considerable change
in the public laws. If the legislature had no powerto alter
its police laws when contracts would be affected, then the
most important and valuable reforms might be precluded
by the simple device of entering into contracts for the
purpose. No doctrine to that effect would. be even plausible, much less sound and tenable." "If one agrees," said
'Mr. Parsons, "to do a thing which it is lawful for him
to do, and it becomes unlawful by an act of the legislature,
the act avoids the promise." Parsons on Contracts (6th
Ed.), 675.
We forbear any further citation of authorities. They
are numerous and are all one way. They support the view
that, as the contract in question would have been illegal
if made after the passage of the commerce act, it cannot
now be enforced against the railroad company, even
though valid when made. If that principle be 'not sound,
the result would be that individuals and corporations
could, by contracts between themselves, in anticipation

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

of legislati n,render of no avail the exercise by Congress,
to the full extent authorized by the Constitution, of its
power to regulate commerce. No power of Congress can
be thus restricted. The mischiefs that would result from
a different interpretation of the Constitution will be readily
perceived.
In our opinion, the relief asked by the plaintiffs must,
upon principle and authority, be denied; that the railroad
company rightly refused, after the passage of the commerce act, further to comply with the agreement of 1871;
and, that the decree requiring performance of its proviions, by issuing annual passes, was erroneous.
Whether, without enforcing the contract in suit, the
defendants in error may, by some form of proceeding.
against the railroad company, recover or restore the rights
they-had when the railroad collision occurred is a question
not before us, and we express no opinion on it.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded
for such further proceedings as may be deemed proper, not
inconsistent with the views herein expressed.
Reversed.

CHICAGO, INDIANAPOL TS AND LOUISVILLE
RAILWAY COMPANY - UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 74. Submitted December 16, 1910.-Decided February 20, 1911.
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v. Mottley, anie, p. 467, followed to effect that under the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat.
584, amending the act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 2, 24 Stat. 379,
a carrier cannot accept any compensation other than cash for interstate transportation, and. the delivery of such transportation in
exchange for advertising is a violation. of. the act; and it is no defense that such a transaction is permitted hv A. RtjR t,Rt1tP..

