MOBILE, J. & K. C. R. R. v. TURNIPSEED.
219 U. S.

35

Syllabus.

the transactions may be regarded as simultaneous in a
practical sense, and the bond being under seal, consideration is presumed.
The assignment of some of the claims did not affect the
remedy. United States v. Rundle, 100 Fed. Rep. 400.
The allowance of a docket fee of $10 to each claimant
appears to us to be correct. Rev. Stat., § 824. The claims
are several and represent distinct causes of action in different parties, although consolidated in a single snit.

Judgment affirmed.

MOBILE, JACKSON'& KANSAS CITY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. TURNIPSEED, ADMINISTRATOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
No.' 59. Submitted November 30, 1910.-Decided December 19, 1910.
A general classification in a state statute resting upon obvious principles of public policy does not offend the equal protection provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment becapse it includes persons not subject to a uniform degree of danger.
An employd of a railway company, although not engaged in the actual
operation of trains, is nevertheless within the general line of hazard
inherent in the railway business.
A state statute abrogating the fellow-servant rule as to employes of
railway companies is not unconstitutional under the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment because it applies to
all employ~s and not only to those engaged in the actual operation
of trains; and so held as to § 3559 of the Mississippi constitution of
1890.
Legislation providing that proof of one fact shall constitute primafade
evidence of the main fact is within the general power of government
to enact rules of evidence; and neither due process of law nor equal
protection, of the law is denied if there is a rational connection between the fact and the ultimate fact presumed, and the party af-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U.'S.

fected is afforded reasonable opportunity to submit to the jury all
the facts on the issue.
It is not an unreasonable inference that a derailment of railway cars is
due to negligence in construction, maintenance or operation of the
track or of the train, and the provisions of § 1985.of the Mississippi
Code of 1906, making proof of injury inflicted by the running of
cars or locomotives of a railway company prima fade evidence of
negligence on the part of servants of the company, does not deprive
the companies of their property without due process of'law or deny
to them the equal protection of the law.
Such a statute in its operation only supplies an inference of liability in
the absence of other evidence conitadicting such inference.

which involve the constitutionality under the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
of certain provisions of the Code and of the constitution
of the State of Mississippi, are stated in the opinion.
THE facts,

Mr. James N. Flowers for plaintiff in error:
Section 3559, Annotated Code, as now construed by the
Supreme Court of Mississippi, violates the Fourteenth
Amendment in that it denies to railroad corporations the
equal protection of the laws. Said section is constitutional
as construed by that court in Ballard v. Cotton Oil Co, 81
Mississippi, 507, and Bradford Construction Co. v. Heflin,
88 Mississippi, 362. That state statutes may abolish the
fellow-servant rule in part as to employ6s of railroad companies and leave it in full operation as far as it affects the
rights of servants of other masters is conceded, Minneapolis &c. Ry. Co. v. Herrick, 127 U. S. 210; Tullis v. Lake
Erie &c. Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 348; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Gulf, C. & S. F.Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150, but they can do so only as to such employ6s as
are emperilled by the hazardous nature of the .business of
operating railroad trains. A trackman is in no more danger from the operation of trains than is a telegraph operator.
The statute cannot be consistently applied to the case

MOBILE, J. & K. C. R. R. v. TURNIPSEED.
219 U. S.

37

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of employs, except those who take part in the actual
operation of trains, or whose duties expose them" to dangers from the actual operation of trains. The dangerous
part of the railroad business, Which justifies the classification of it as a dangerous business, is the running of trains.
The statute only applies to those who take part in such
dangerous business, or whose duties expose them to such
dangers.
To determine whether.the person injured is entitled to
the protection of § 193 of the state constitution, one
should not look at the character of the employment of
the person whose negligence caused the injury, but to the
character of the employment of the person who was himself'injured.
In this case the man killed was engaged in no dangerous
business. His injuries did result from a running train, the
said train having been derailed'and turned over on him.
The deceased was not even engaged about the duties
of his employment at the time he was hurt, but had
stopped at the noon hour and was walking along the track.
His duties did not require him to be where he was. It was
a place of his own selection, He cannot be said to have
been engaged in a dangerous employment just because he
worked on the track and a train running along the track
might jump the track and fall on him. Railway Co. v.
Mackey, supra; Tullis v. Railroad Co., 175 U. S. 351;
Blomquist v. Great Northern R. R. Co., 65 Minnesota, 69;
Jemming v. Great Northern R. R. Co. (Minn.), 1 L. R. A.
*(N. S,) 702; Anderson v. Railroad Co., 74 Minnesota, 432.
Cases allowing the railroad employ6 to plead such stat.utes have proceeded on the idea that the particular branch
of employment was hazardous. Railroad Co. v. Pontius,
157 U, S. 200; Dunn v. Railroad Co., 107 N. W. Rep. 616;
Callahan v. Railroad Co., 170 Missouri, 473, affirmed in
194 U. S. 826.
In the effort to make it easy to fasten liability upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

railroad companies the Mississippi legislature has gone to
the extreme. The necessary effect of § 1985 of the Mississippi Code of 1906 is to make railroad corporations liable in every instance of damage to persons or property
unless it is able to meet successfully the burden of proving
its innocence. The burden of proof is shifted to the defendant and railroad corporations are put in a class to
themselves. It is legislation directed specially against
railroads. There is no reason in the classification. It is
arbitrary and makes it easier to recover against railroad
defendants than against any other defendants. It is a
burden put upon them which is put upon no other class of
litigants.
The inherent danger of railroading is not a matter to be
taken into consideration in the enactment of rules of evidence or of law pertaining to the enforcement of rights of
action for injuries inflicted by running trains. The "difference" between railroad companies and other persons
and corporations in this regard does n6t bear a reasonable
and just relation to the subject in respect of which the
classification is proposed, and therefore such classification
is arbitrary. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. Matthews,
174 U. S. 96.
The statute, although upheld, was recognized as being
on the border line; four members of this court condemned
it. Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. 'S. 512;
Railroad Co. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404, distinguished; and
see Ballard v. Oil Co., supra; Bradford Construction Co. v.
Heflin, supra; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.

150.
This statute will bearupon railroad companies in a discriminating and unequal way and deprive them of their
property without due process of law. No law authorizing persons to recover of railroad companies on unjust
and illegal claims can be justified on grounds of public
policy.

MOBILE, J. & K. C. R. R. v. TURNIPSEED.
219 U.S.

39

Opini -n of the Court.

Mr. C. H. Alexander and Mr. Chalmers Alexander for
defendant in error:
The work in which Hicks was engaged was such as
habitually placed him within the hazards contemplated
by. the Mississippi constitution. See cases in opinion of
state court and Keatley v. I. C. R. R. Co., 103 Iowa, '282;
Haden v. R. R. Co., 92 Iowa, 227; Dunn v. Chicago R. R.
Co., 130 Iowa, 580; Jenningv. R.R. Co., 1 L. R. A. (N. S.)
702; Williams v. R. R. Co., 121 Iowa, 270; Croll v. Atchison R. R. Co., 57 Kansas, 548; Brown v. Yazoo R. R. Co.,
88 Mississippi, 687. It is applicable to all railroad companies, hence there is no injustice in the operation of the
statute. For similar statutes see § 3148 of the general
statutes of Florida, 1906. For Arkansas see Sand. & H.
Dig., § 6349. For Georgia see 73 Georgia, 499; 79 Georgia,
305. For Alabama see Georgia Cent. R. R. Co. v. Turner,
145 Alabama, 441. For North Carolina, 120 N. C. 489.
ForTennessee seeJkrn v. RailroadCo., 1 Coldw. 72. For
Colorado, KenturLy, Maryland, Louisiana, North Dakota,
South Carolina and other States see the numerous citations in 33 Cyc* 1274.
o. u Wrci jTRTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action in tort for the wrongful killing of
Ray Hicks, a section foreman in the service of the railroad company. There was a judgment for the plaintiff
in a circuit court of the State of Mississippi, which was
'affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
The Federal questions asserted, which are supposed to
'give this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State, arise out of the alleged repugnancy of §§. 3559 and 1985 of the Mississippi Code to that
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
which guarantees to. every person the equal protection of
the laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Section 3559 of the Mississippi Code of 1892, being a
rescript of § 193 of the Mississippi constitution of 1890,
abrogates, substantially, the common law fellow-servant
rule as to "every employ6 of a railroad corporation." It
is urged that this legislation, applicable only to employ~s
of a railroad company, is arbitrary, and a denial of the
equal protection of law, unless it be limited in its effect to
employ~s imperiled by the hazardous business of operating
railroad trains or engines, and that the Mississippi Supreme Court had, in prior cases, so defined and construed
this legislation. Ballard v. Mississippi Cotton Oil Co., 81
Mississippi, 532; Bradford Construction Co. v. Heflin, 88
Mississippi, 314.
It is now contended that the provision has been construed in the present case as applicable to an employ6 not
subject to any danger or peril peculiar to the operation of
railway trains, and that therefore tli reason for such special classification fails, and the provisionso construed and
applied is invalid as a denial of the equalfmtection of the
law.
This contention, shortly stated, comes to this, that although a classification of railway employ~s may be justified from general considerations based upon the hazardous
character of the occupation, such classification becomes
arbitrary and a denial of the equal protection of the law
the moment it is found to embrace employ~s not exposed
to hazards peculiar to railway operation.
But this court has never So construed the limitation
imposed by the Fourteenth Amendment upon the power
of the State to legislate with reference to particular employments as to render ineffectual a general classification
resting upon obvious principles of public policy because
it may happen that the classification includes persons not
subject to a uniform degree of danger. The insistence,
therefore, that legislation in' respect of railway employ6s
generally is repugnant to the clause of the Constitution

MOBILE, J. & K. C. R. R. v. TURNIPSEED.
219 U. S.

41

Opinion of the Court.

guaranteeing the equal protection of the law merely because it is not limited to those engaged in the actual operadon of trains is without merit.
The intestate of the defendant in error was not engaged
in the actual operation of trains. But he was nevertheless engaged in a service which subjected him to dangers
from the operation of trains, and brought him plainly
within the general legislative purpose. The case in hand
illustrates the fact that such employ~s, though not directly
engaged in the management of trains, are nevertheless
within the general line of hazard inherent in the railway
business. The deceased was the foreman of a section crew.
His business was to keep the track in repair. He stood by
the side of the track to let a train pass by; a derailment
occurred and a car fell upon him and crushed out.his life.
In the late case of L. & N. Railroadv. Melton, 218 U. S.
36, an Indiana fellow-servant act was held applicable to a
member of a railway construction crew who was injured
while engaged in the construction of a coal tipple alongside of the railway track. This whole matter of classification was there considered. Nothing more need be said
upon the subject, for the case upon this point is fully
covered by the decision referred to.
The next error arises upon the constitutionality of
§ 1985 of the Mississippi Code of 1906. That section reads
as follows:
. "Injury to Persons or Property by Railroads prima
facie
Evidence of Want of Skill, etc.-In all actions against railroad companies for damages done to persons or property,
proof of injury inflicted by the running of the locomotives.
or. cars of such company shall be prima facie evidence of
the want of reasonable skill and care on the part of the
servants of the company in reference to such injury. This
section shall also apply to passengers and employ~s of
railroad companies."
The objection made to this statute is that the railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

companies are thereby put into a class to themselves and
deprived of the benefit of the general rule of law which
places upon one who sues in tort the burden of not only
proving an injury, but also that the injury was the consequence of some negligence in respect of a duty owed to
the plaintiff.
It is to be primarily observed that the statute is not
made applicable to all actions against such companies.
Its operation is plainly limited, first, to injuries sustained
by passengers or employ~s of such companies; second, to
injuries arising from the'actual operation of railway trains
or engines, and third, the effect of evidence showing an
injury due to the operation of trains or engines is only
"prima facie evidence of the want of reasonable skill and
care on the part of the servants of the company in reference
to such injury."
The law of evidence is full of presumptions either 6f
fact or law. The former are, of course, disputable, and
the strength of any inference of one fact from proof of another depends upon the generality of the experience upon
which it is founded. For a discussion of some common law
aspects of the subject see Cincinnati&c. Ry. v. South Fork
Coal Co., 139 Fed. Rep. 528 et seq.
Legislation providing that proof of one fact shall constitute prima facie evidence of the main fact in issue is
but to enact a rule of evidence, and quite within the general power of government. Statutes, National and state,
dealing with such methods of proof in both civil and criminal cases abound, and the decisions upholding them are
numerous. A few of the leading ones are Adams v. New
York, 192 U. S. 585; People v. Cannon, 139 N. Y. 32; Home
v. Memphis &c. Ry., 1 Coldwell (Tenn.), 72; Meadowcroft
v. The People, 163 Illinois, 56; Commonwealth v. Williams,
6 Gray, 1; State v. Thomas, 144 Alabama, 77.
We are not impressed with the argument that the Supreme Court of Mississippi, in construing the act, has de-

MOBILE, J. & K. C. I. R. v. TURNIPSEED.
219 U. S.

43

Opinion of the Court.

"clared that the effect of the statute is to create a presumption of liability, giving to it, thereby, an effect in excess
of a mere temporary inference of fact. The statutory effect
of the rule is to provide that evidence of an injury arising
from the actual operation of trains shall create an inference of negligence, which is the main fact in issue. The
only legal effect of this inference is to cast upon the railroad company the duty of producing some evidence to the
contrary. When that is done the inference is at an end,
and the question of negligence is one for the jury upon all
of the evidence. In default of such evidence, the defendant, in a civil case, must lose, for the prima facie case is
enough as matter of law.
The statute does not, therefore, deny the equal protection of the law or otherwise fail in due process of law, because it creates a presumption of liability, since its operation is only to supply an inference of liability in the
absence of other evidence contradicting such inference.
-That a legislative presumption of one fact from evidence
of another may not constitute a denial of due process of
law or a denial of the equal protection of the law it is only
essential that there shall be some rational connection between the fact proved and the ultimate fact presumed, and
that the inference of one fact from proof of another shall
not be so unreasonable as to be a purely arbitrary mandate. So, also, it must not, under guise of regulating the.
presentation of evidence, operate to preclude the party
from the right to present his defense to the main fact thus
presumed.
[If a legislative provision not unreasonable in itself prescribing a rule of evidence, in either criminal or civil cases,
does not shut out from the party affected a reasonable opportunity to submit to the jury in his defense all of the
facts bearing upon the issue, there is no ground for holding that due process of law has been denied him.
Tested by these principles, the statute as construed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219. U. S.

applied by the Mississippi court in this case is unobjec-"
tionable. It is not an unreasonable inference that a derailment of railway cars is due to some negligence, either
in construction or maintenance of the track or trains, or
some carelessness in operation.
From the foregoing considerations it must be obvious
that the application of the act to injuries resulting from
"the running of locomotives and cars," is not an arbitrary
classification, but one resting upon considerations of public policy arising out of the character of the business.

Judgment affirmed.

HERENCIA v. GUZMAN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.
No. 46.

Submitted November 29, 1910.-Decided December'19; 1910.

It is not the province of this court on writ of error to reverse if dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury; if there was evidence proper
for the consideration of the jury, objection that the verdict was
against the weight of evidence or that excessive damages were allowed cannot be considered.
An amendment to a bill of exceptions, after bond on appeal had been
given and approved, so as to make the record conform to the fact as
to the conditions under which certain testimony introduced by plaintiff in error on the trial was given, held not error, as it was not unjustified or objected to and the exception related simply to the
inclusion of such testimony in the record.
A judgment cannot be set aside on an exception to the refusal of the
trial court to allow an expert to testify where the record does not
show what testimony. the witness was expected to give or that he
was qualified to give any.,

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

