OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

was originally enacted in 1866 (act of July 13, 1866, c. 184;
14 Stat., p. 111) as an amendment of the Internal Revenue act of June 30, 1864, chapter 173 (13 Stat. 239), and
included within its scope the stamp taxes then in force.
It. must be deemed applicable also to the taxes imposed
by the act of 1898.
Upon these grounds we conclude that the United States
was entitled to maintain this action and that the demurrer
should have been overruled. The judgment is therefore

Reversed.
HOUSE v. MAYES, MARSHAL OF JACKSON
COUNTY, MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 597.

Argued December 13, 14, 1910.-Decided January 9, 1911.

The following fundamental principles are not open to dispute:
The Government created by the Federal Constitution is one of enumerated powers, and cannot by any of its agencies exercise an authority not granted by that instrument either expressly or by necessary implication.
A power may be implied when necessary to give effect to a power
expressly granted.
While the Constitution of the United States and the laws enacted in
pursuance thereof, together with treaties made under the authority
of the United States, constitute the supreme law of the land, a
State may exercise all such governmental authority as is consistent
with its own, and not in conflict with the Federal, Constitution.
The police power of the State, never having been surrendered by it
to the Federal Government, is not granted by or derived from, but
exists independently of, the Federal Constitution.
One of the powers never surrendered by, and therefore remaining
with, the State is to so regulate the relative rights and duties of
all within its jurisdiction as to guard the public morals, safety and
health, as well as to promote the public convenience and the common good.

HOUSE v. MAYES.
,219 U. S.,
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
It is within the power of the State to
devise the means to be employed to the above ends provided they do not go beyond the
necessities of the case, have some real and substantial relation to
the object to be accomplished, and do not conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
A State may enact a regulation as to sale and delivery of a commodity
by actual weight and prohibit arbitrary deductions under rules of
associations, without depriving the members of such associations
of their liberty of contract or of their property without due process
of law.
The State may, without violating the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, regulate' the conduct of boards of trade or ex,changes which have close and constant relations with the general
public, by such means as are not arbitrary or unreasonable. Such
regulations are not interferences with liberty of contract beyond
the police power of the State to protect the public and promote the
general welfare.
The statute of Missouri of June 8, 1909, to prevent fraud in the purchase and sale of grain and other commodities and which prohibits
arbitrary deductions from actual weight or measure thereof under
custom or rules of boards of trade, is a valid exercise of the police
power of the State and is not unconstitutional as a deprivation of
property, interference with liberty of contract, or denial of equal
protection of the law.
227 Missouri, 617, affirmed.

which involve the constitutionality of an
act of the State of Missouri to prevent fraud in the purchase and sale of grain and other commodities, are stated
in the opinion.
THE facts,

Mr. Frank Hagerman,with whom Mr. Kimbrough Stone
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The act denies to plaintiff in error the right to contract.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment, freedom of contract
is guaranteed. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 390; Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45, 53; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161-,
172.
While freedom of contract must yield to the police

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

power of the State, there is a limit to the exercise of that
-

power. In the end the court must decide the question.
Mugler v. Kansas City, 123 U. S. 623, 661; State v. Tie
Co., 181 Missouri, 536, 559; State v. Cantwell, 179 Missouri, 245, 263; State v. Loomis, 115 Missouri, 307, 316.
There must be some reasonable grounds for the legislative interference, or it cannot be justified. Bonnett v.
Vallier, 136 Wisconsin, 193, 203; State v. Redmon, 134
Wisconsin, 89, 110; Harding v. People, 160 Illinois, 459.
On the ground of unreasonable interference with the
liberty of contract, the courts have condemned legislative acts prescribing maximum hours of labor, Lochner
v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; making unlawful contracts
of employment forbidding membership in labor unions,
State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 163; People v. Marcys, 189
N. Y. 257; Gillespie v. People, 188 Illinois, 176; Coffeyville B. & T. Co. v. Perry, 69 Kansas, 297; State v. Bateman, 7 Ohio N. P. 487; Zillmer v. Kreutzberg, 114 Wisconsin, 530; Goldfield Mines Co. v. Miners' Union, 159
Fed. Rep. 500; 'requiring stipulations in contracts for
public work that none but union labor be employed, Atlanta v. Stein, 111 Georgia, 789; Marshall Co. v. Nashville, 109 Tennessee, 495; Adams v. Brennan, 177 Illinois,
194; Holden v. Alton, 179 Illinois, 318; Fiske v. 'People,
. 188 Illinois, 206; Furniture Co. v. Toole, 2 6 Montana, 22;
Lewis V. Board of Education, 139 Michigan, 306; Rodgers
v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1, 59; making it criminal to discharge
an employ6 because he is a member of a labor organization, Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; requiring contractors to pay certain minimum wages, Street v. Electrical Supply Co., 160 Indiana, 338; State v. Norton, 5
Ohio N. P. 183; regulating the time of payment of wages
in defiance of contract, Leep v. Railway Co., 58 Arkansas,
407; Braceville Coal Co. v. People, 147 Illinois, 66; Railway Co. v. Wilson (Tex.), 19 S. W. Rep. 910; Republic
I. & S. Co. v. State, 160 Indiana, 379; Commonwealth v.

HOUSE v. MAYES.
219 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Isenburg, 4 Pa. Dist. R. 579; Bauer v. Reynolds, 3 Pa.
Dist. R. 502; prohibiting payment of laborers otherwise
than in money, State v. Loomis, 115 Missouri, 307; State
v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va. 179; Godcharles v. Wigeman, 113
Pa. St. 431; State v. Hann, 61 Kansas, 146; Jordanv. State,
51 Tex. Crim. 531; Avent Coal Co. v. Commonwealth, 96
Kentucky, 218; prohibiting mine owners from dealing in
supplies, provisions, etc., Froerv. People, 141 Illinois, 171;
forbidding sale of supplies to employ~s at greater price
than to others, State v. Fire Creek Co., 33 W. Va. 118;
forbidding deduction of wages because of defective work,
Commonwealth v. Perry, 155 Massachusetts, 117; or for
any reason except for actual cash advanced, Kellyville
Coal.Co. v. Harrier,207 Illinois, 624; requiring employers
to give discharged employds written reasons for discharge, Wallace v. Railway Co., 94 Georgia, 732; New York
Ry. Co. v. Schaffer, 65 Oh. St. 414; requiring a day's labor
to consist of eight hours, Low v. Rees Printing Co., 41
Nebraska, 127; requiring sleeping car companies, upon
request of occupant of lower berth, to raise upper berth
if not occupied, State v. Redmon, 134 Wisconsin, 89, 110;
requiring all contractors for erection of buildings to give
bond for benefit of material men, Montague & Co. v. Furness, 145 California, 205; forbidding cigar making in tenement houses, In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y; 98; regulating weight
of loaves of bread, Buffalo v. Collins Baking CO., 39 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 432; giving state board power to refuse or
grant nurseryman's lioens6 as it might think applicant
financially responsible or not, Hawley v. Nelson (S. D.),
115 N. W. Rep. 93-; xequiring certain bonds to be secured
by surety companies as sureties, McKell v. Robins, 71
Ohio, 273 , prohibiting location of laundry without consent of certain property owners, Ex parte Sing Lee, 96
California, 354; Laundry Ordinance Case, 13 Fed. Rep.
229; or unless permitted by board of supervisors, Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 373; requiring production of cerVOL. CCXIX-18

,274

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

tificate showing payment of all taxes due before recording conveyance of real estate, Baldwin v. Moore, 7 Washington, 173; forbidding sale of groceries and provisiohs
in same store where dry goods, clothing or drugs are sold,
Chicago v. Nitcher, 183 Illinois, 104; making gift of premium stamps with purchase a crime, Appel v. Zimmermann, 102 App. Div. (N. Y.) 103; Madden v. Dycker, 72
Ipp.Div. (N. Y.) 308; prohibiting selling of any article
upon itducement of a premium, People v. Gillison, 109
N Y. 397; requiring mine owners to provide scales for
weighing coal and to make the weight of coal the basis of
wages, Millett V. People, 117Illinois, 294; In re House Bill
No. 203, 21 Colorado, 27; requiring payment for coal mined
to be based on coal before screened, Ramsey v. People, 142
Illinois, 380; Re Preston, 63 Oh. St. 428; Whitebreast Fuel
Co. v. People, 175 Illinois, 51, making it criminal to offer
real estate for sale without written authority, Fisher Co.
v. Woods, 187 N. Y. 90; putting onerous restrictions upon
keeping of private asylums for insane, Ex parte Whitwell, 98 California, 73.
The Board of. Trade was a voluntary association of
great service to the public and the alleged rule was but
a reasonable provision in a written contract between
plaintiff in error and others. Tompkins v. Saffrey, L. R.
3 App. Cas. 2,13, 228; Moffatt v. Kansas City Bo*'d of
Trade, 111 S. W. Rep. 894, 900; Hopkins v. United States,
171 U. S. 578, 597; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U.5. 50.9; Greer v.
Stoller, 77 Fed. Rep. 1; The Law and Customs of the Stock
Exchange by'Melsheimer and Gardner (3d Ed., London,
1891), 98; Clai'k v. Foss, 7 Biss. 547, 555; 'Bisbee and Simon's Exchanges, Preface VI.
The fact that a membership fee is charged, makes no
difference as to the rights of the parties. The association
owns no property, there is a mere membership, the fee
being paid ds an aid to. carr§ the expense of the organization. The very definition of an exchange excludes the

HOUSE v. MAYES.
219 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

idea of having property interests. White v. Brownell, 2
Daly, 329; Leech v. Harris, 2 Brewst. (Pa.) 571, 575; In
re Haebler, 149 N. Y. 414, 428; American Com. Co. v.
Chicago Live Stock Exchange, 143 Illinois, 210, 226; 23
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 749; Seymour v. Bridge, 14
Q. B. Div. 460, 465; Belton v. Hatch, 109 N. Y. 593, 596;
Commercial Telegraph Co. v. Smith, 47 Hun, 494, 505;
Board of Trade v. Nelson, 162 Illinois, 431, 438; People v.
New York Commercial Association, 18 Abb. Pr. 271, 279;
Vaughn v. Herndon, 91 Tennessee, 64; Evans v. Chamber
of Commerce, 86 Minnesota, 448; People v. Chicago Board
of Trade, 80 Illinois, 134; Metropolitan Grain Exchange v.
Board of Trade, 15 Fed. Rep. 847.
There is a vast difference between the rights of a member of a voluntary, unincorporated institution and those
of a shareholder of a corporation. 1 Thompson on Corporations, § 846; Bacon on Benefit Societies, § 89; Niblack on Benefit Societies, §§ 22, 30, 73; Kehenbeck v. Logeman, 10 Daly (N. Y.), 447.
Mr. Elliott W. Major, Attorney General of the State
of Missouri, with whom Mr, John M. Atkinson was on
the brief, for defendant in error:
The legislature has the right to enact laws preventing and abolishing self-imposed rules of b.ards of trade
which have been adopted as to, weights and measures;
such legislation is within the police power of the State.
The State can abolish any custom or usage among merchants or others as to what shall constitute the unit of
weight. Pittsburg Coal Co. v. Louisiana, 156 U. S. 590.
The statute is leveled at rule 18, adopted by the Board
of Trade, whereby it arbitrarily deducts from every car
of grain one hundred pounds of its weight.
The deduction of the one hundred pounds, as made by
the rule, is a fraud or trespass upon the rights of others.
It is the duty of the State to prevent same, because the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

219 U. S.

action to recover is not adequate on account of the frequency and multiplicity of the acts.
The law is in the interest of fair dealing and common
honesty. It prevents the taking of the property of the
citizen by arbitrary rule without that "due process of
law" about which plaintiff in error has said so much.
House v. Mayes, 227 Missouri, 641; McLean v. Arkansas,
211 U. S. 550; Tiedeman, Police Power, § 89.
The public has such an interest in and is so affected by
'the dealing of boards of trade, that the legislature can control salne.
Making the deduction of any amount from the actual
weight of certain commodities by reason of any custom
or rule of a board of trade a misdemeanor, as provided
in the Missouri statute, is a valid exercise of the police
power of the State.
The police power of a State embraces regulations designed to .promote the public convenience or the general
prosperity, as well as those to promote public health,
morals or safety; it is not confine!&to the expression of
what is offensive, disorderly or unsanitary, but extends
to what is for the greatest welfare of the State. 30 Am.
& Eng. Ency. Law (2d Ed.), 451; People v. Wagner, 86
Michigan, 599; Stat6 v. Wilson, 61 Kansas, 32; Pittsburg
Coal Co. v. Louisiana; 156 U. S. 590; Munn v. Illinois,
94 U. S. 113; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Brass
v. North Dakota, 153 U. S. 391; Cooley on Const. Lim.
(6th Ed.), 744; Green v. Moffitt, 22 Missouri, 529; Evans
v. Myers, 25 Pa. St. 114; Noble v. Durrell, 3 T. R. 271;
St. Cross v. Howard, 6 T. R. 338; Mayes v. Jennings, 4
Humph. (Tenn.) 102; Harris'v. Rutledge, 19 Iowa, 388;
Tiedeman's Police Power, § 89; 1 Bishop's New Criminal
Law, § 234; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 546, 550;
Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S.79; New York v. Miln,
11 Pet. 105; Thurlow v. Massachusetts, 5 How. 628;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 380; Bacon v. Walker, 204

HOUSE v. MAYES.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 317; Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 105; C., B. & Q. Ry.
Co. v. Drainage Com., 209 U. S. 592; Gundling V. Chicago,
177 U. S. 183; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11.
The State, under its police power, has the right to prevent fraud generally, in any transaction, and especially
in weights and Measures of the commodities of life.
Freund, Police Power; Tiedeman, Police Power, § 2(0.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was proceeded against by information filed in the Criminal Court of Jackson County,
Missouri, under a statute of Missouri, which was passed
June 8, 1909, and is entitled "An act to prevent fraud
in the purchase and sale of grain and other commodities." The statute reads: "§ 1. Every sale of grain, seed,
hay or coal shall be made on the basis of the actual weight
thereof, and any purchaser of grain, seed, hay or coal,
who shall deduct any amount from the actual weight or
measure thereof under claim of right to do so by reason
of any custom or rule of a Board of Trade or any pretense
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars nor
more than one hundred-dollars for each and every offense.
§ 2. No agent or broker selling any grain, seed, hay or
coal shall have authority, under claim or right to do so
by reason of any custom or rule of Board of Trade, to sell
any grain, seed, hay or coal only on the basis of the actual
weight thereof, and any contract of sale of any grain,
seed, hay or coal made in violation of this act shall be
null and void." Mo. Sess. Acts, 1909, p. 519; Mo. Rev.
Stat., §§ 11969, 11970.
The information charged that the accused, on the first
day of September, 1909, at the County of Jackson, State
of Missouri, purchased from one James Anderson a carload of wheat, by weight, and unlawfully took and de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

ducted from the actual weight one hundred pounds, pretending and claiming the right to make such deduction,
and to have and keep .the said one hundred pounds so
deducted free of charge and cost to him, under and by
virtpe of a rule and custom of the Board of Trade of
Kansas City, Missouri.
Having been arrested on a capias and 'being held in.
custody by the defendant as Marshal, the accused presented to the Criminal Court an application for a rwrit
of habeas corpus-claiming that he was deprived of his
liberty in violation. of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. The' application was
denied, but it was subsequently granted by the Supremh1
Court of. the State. The latter court upon, final hearing
also denied the application, and ordered that the petitioner be remanded -to the.custody of I the 'Marshal. The
case is now here for review, upon assignments of error
Which question the constitutional validity of the statute
under the Foirteenth Amendment.
The case was heard upon an agreed statement of facts"
the parties reserving all questions as t9 the relevancy of
aniy particular- fact therein stated. As the case is of some
importance it will be appropriate to set forth the above
statement in full, as follows: "Without admission of
either party as to the relevancy of any particular fact
.:herein set forth, the following facts are agreed between
the parties: There are competitive grain markets at Galveston, Texas; Chicago, Illinois; Omaha, Nebraska; Atchison and Wichita, Kansas, and St. Louis, St. Joseph and
Kansas City, Missouri. That Kansas City is a primary
grain market. That a very slight difference in price or
condition will influence the market course of grain. That
the Board of ,Trade of Kansas City, Missouri, is a voluntary. organization of buyers and sellers of grain and provisions, supported by dues and assessments and maiitained for the purpose of furnishing a marketing place

HOUSE v. MAYES.
219 U. S.

Opinion of. the Court.

where such persons can meet and, under rules of safety
and convenience, transact such business. Its objects are:
'To.maintain a Board of Trade, to promote uniformity
in the customs and usages of merchants; to inculcate principles of justice and equity in business; to facilitate the
speedy adjustment of business disputes; to inspire confidence in the business methods and integrity of the parties hereto; to collect and disseminate valuable commercial
and economic information, and generally to secure to its
members the benefits of co-operation in the furtherance
of their legitimate pursuits, and to promote the general
welfare of Kansas City.' Its members are governed by
rules and regulations, enacted by the members, and which
form part of the written contract of association between
them. This organization provides for the exclusive use
of its members a trading floor, where grain is bought and
sold only under and according to said rules. Three of
said rules are: '§ 16. The weight Supervising Committee
shall have supervision, through the Weight Department,
of the unloading of all cars unloaded at all elevators, mills,
warehouses, transfer and team tracks, within the jurisdiction of this Board, and shall cause the same to be
thoroughly swept and cleaned when unloaded. Sweeping or cleaning of cars subsequently by any operator or
employ6 of any elevator, mill, warehouse, transfer or
team tracks, or by any person or persons under agreement
with the same; or the buying or receiving of any such
sweepings or clearings by any member of this Association
is prohibited. § 17. Violations of any of the provisions
of section 16 of this article shall subject the members so
violating to a fine of $50.00 for the first offense, to a fine
of $100.00 for the ,second offense, to expulsion and forfeiture of membership for the third offense. § 18. On all
grain bought by members of the Kansas City Board of
Trade, and on which Kansas City unloading weights are
given, an allowance of one hundred lbs. per car shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

made to the buyer, to cover loss on account of dirt and
other foreign matter.' That said Board of Trade mainiains a bureau of weights, which strictly enforces rule 16.
That rules 16 and 17 were enacted to secure to the seller
full weight of the entire contents of the car and rule 18
to secure the buyer from loss through dirt and foreign
matter in or swept out with the grain, which was unloaded
at Kansas City. Before grain is sold it is graded. One
of the considerations in grading is the dirt and foreign
matter in the grain. Experience had shown that. there is
a loss from dirt and foreign matter, varying with different
cars, which is not fully taken care of in the grade. That
there is no method in use of accurately determining the
percentage of such foreign matter and dirt, and the one
hundred pound quantity was taken as a fair average.
The members of said Board of Trade buy and sell sometimes as commission men for outsiders and sometimes
for their own account, and it is impossible to tell without
inquiry whether a buyer or seller is acting for himself or
for some one else. The buying and selling of grain on the
floor of said Board of Trade is as in all other markets,
based upon the constantly and rapidly fluctuating market
prices in that and the other principal grain markets.
There is no time nor opportunity to ascertain the capacity
(principal or agent) in which a member is acting when he
buys or sells, and, if he be in reality acting as agent, no
opportunity to investigate the financial standing of the
real principal. Because of this condition and also to secure the- prompt and faithful performance of all such contracts of sale there is a rule df said Board of Trade forbidding the disclosure of outside principals, and holding
the member in all' cases as the principal. There are also
rules-making a membership responsible for the faithful
performance of such contracts. That the State Railroad
and, Warehouse Commission has in force a rule requiring
cars unloaded at Kansas Citv to be cleanly swept. That

HOUSE v. MAYES.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the method of making the reduction is to weigh the ldaded
car; then after emptying and cleanly sweeping th' car,
to weigh the car; the difference in these two weights is
entered on the account sales as the weight, of the carload
of grain, the deduction of one hundred pounds being also
noted on that slip and settlement made for this balance.
That is, the weight of the entire contents of the car is
shown, and also the one hundred pounds' deduction on
the face of the account sales given the seller. That upon
the first day of September, 1909; your petitioner [House]
bought upop the trading floor of said Board of Trade,' and
from a member thereof, a carload of wheat on Kansas
City unloading weights..,In accordance with 'the above
method and under said rule 18, he deducted one hundred
pounds and made settlement for the balance. The member selling this. grain did not own it, but was acting as a
commission man. He, however, dealt with your petitioner
.as in his own right- and your petitioner had no notice or
knowledge that such seller was not the real owner of the
grain. Nothing had been said between the member selling and his principal as to the allowance of the one hundred pounds. Both your petitioner and the seller understood at the time of sale that it was made subject to this
rule."
An extended discussion of the general question of constitutional law raised by the assignments of error is rendered unnecessary by fbrmer' -decisions of this court.
There are certain fundamental principles which those
cases recognize and which are not open to dispute. In
our opinion, they sustain the power of the Statb to enact
the statute in question.. Briefly stated, those principles
are: That the Government created by the Federal Constitution is one of enumerated powers, and cannot, by
any of its agencies, exercise an authority not granted, by
that 'instrument, either in express words or by necessary
implication; that a power may be implied when necessary

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

t6 give effect to a power expressly granted; that while
the Constitution of the United States and the laws enacted
in pursuance thereof, together with any treaties made
!in'dei the "authority of the United States, constitute the
Supreme Law of the Land, a State of the Union may exercise. all such governmental authority as is consistent
with its own constitution, and not in conflict with the
Federal Constitution; that such a power in the State,
generally, referred to 'as its 'police power, is not granted
by 'or derived from the Federal Constitution but exists
•indepeh&denly of it, by reason of its never having been
surrendered by the State to the General Government;
that. among the powers of the State, not surrenderedwhich power therefore remains with the State-is the
power to so regulate the relative rights and -duties of all
within its jurisdiction so as to guard the public morals,
the public safety and the public health, as well as to
promote the. publi convenience and the common good;
and that it is with the State to devise the means to be
employed to such ends, taking care always that the means
devised do not go beyond the necessities of the case, have
some real or substantial relation to the objects to be accomplished, and are not inconsistent with its own constitution or the Constitution of the United States. The
cases -which sanction these principles are numerous, are
well known to the profession, and -need not be here cited.
Applying these principles to the present case we cannot
say that the statute in question is in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States. The Supreme Court
of Missouri Well observed that the -object of the statute
was to. prevent the enforcement of a rule of a board of
trade, under the ordinary operation of which unfair and
fraudulent practices occur, or would most probably occur,
in the sale of grain and the other commodities named.
That court said:
"The provision of the act which petitioner is charged

.HOUSE v. MAYES.
219 U. S.

Opinion-of the Court.

with having violated is that part thereof which prohibits
any purchaser of grain from deducting any amount from
the actual weight under a claim of right to do so by reason
of any custom or rule of the Board of Trade and it is the
rule of the Kansas City Board of Trade at which this
act is really aimed. The petitioner claims that this act
is unconstitutional because it prohibits him from deducting an arbitrary amount, to wit, one hundred pounds
from each and every car of grain, irrespective of the fact'
whether or not it actually contains any dirt or foreign
substance. While conceding in the agreed statement of
facts that there is no method of accurately determining
the percentage of such foreign matter and dirt he assumes
that there will be an average of one hundred pounds to
each car. He admits that in grading wheat, dirt and foreign matter are taken into account in determining the
value of the grain, but the Kansas City Board of Trade
have arbitrarily added to this and deducted one hundred
pounds from every car, so that if A shipped a car of grain
to Kansas City to a member of the Board of Trade, which
was entirely free from dirt or foreign matter, under this
rule one hundred pounds would be deducted and he loses
the value of this one hundred pounds and receives no
compensation therefor, but is told that he must submit to
this because some other shipper may ship a carload of
grain containing two hundred pounds of dirt or foreign
matter, thus the grain of A which contains no dirt is
taken without compensation and the man who shipped
a carload of grain with two hundred pounds of dirt suffers a deduction of only one hundred pounds. .
1 Bishop's New Crim. Laws, 234. It prohibits merely
the taking of one man's property by another without
compensation. It imposes no unjust burden upon the
purchaser but simply inhibits his deduction from the
wheat he purchases, a part thereof which he would take
without paying the seller therefor by virtue, not of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

agreement with the seller, but by virtue of a rule made
by an association of which he is a member."
Again, the Supreme Court of the State says: "Petitioner
insists that by prohibiting him from making the deduction of one hundred pounds his property is taken without due process of law. We agree with the Attorney Ge4eral that he has reversed the conditions: To-strike down
this act will be to permit him to continue to take the shipper's property without due process of law, and without
any compensation therefor. Without further elaboration,
we are of the opinion that this act is a valid one and it is
wisely aimed to prevent unjust and unfair practice and
to repeal and nullify, a rule of the board of Trade which
is unjust and unfair and contrary to good morals and
fair. dealings, and the act offends against no provision
of the Constitution."
Reference has been made to the fact that the Board. of
Trade of Kansas City is a voluntary association of individuals who perform great service to the public, and
that its purpose is to enforce, as between. its members, a
high standard of business dealings. Let all this be granted,
and yet it must be held that the Board, in the management of its affairs, has such close and constant relations
to the general public, that the conduct of its business
may be regulated by such means, not arbitrary or unreasonable in their. nature, as nay be found by the State
necessary or needful to protect the people against unfair
practices that may likely occur from time to time. Such
regulations do not, in any true sense, interfere with that
"liberty of contract" which the individual members of
the Board of Trade are undoubtedly entitled, under the
Constitution to enjoy, without unnecessary interference
from government; for, the liberty of contract which that
instrument protects against invasion by the State is sub-'
ject to such regulations of the character just stated, as
the State may establish for the protection of the public

BRODNAX v. MISSOURI.
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

and the promotion of the general welfare. If such state
regulations are not unreasonable, that is, not simply arbitrary nor beyond the necessities of. the case, they are
not forbidden by the Constitution of the United States.
We so adjudge on-both principle and kuthority.
The judgment of the. Supreme Court of Missouri is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA concurring.
THE CHIEF JUSTMcE and myself concur in the judgment
solely on the ground that it is competent for the State of
Missouri to provide that, in the absence of an express

contract to which the owner of the articles sold on .the

Board is a party, the rule of the Kansas City Board of
Tade shall not prevail.

BRODNAX v. STATE OF MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 598. Argued December 14, 1910.-Decided January 9, 1911.
In this case, as the statute snows on its face that the subject regulated
needed to be regulated for the protection of the public against fraudulent practices to its injury, this court is not prepared to declare
that the State has acted beyond its power or the necessities of the
case.
While it is the duty of the Federal courts to protect Federal rights
from infringement, they should hot strike down a police regulation
of a State that does not'clearly violate the Federal Constitution;
they cannot overthrow police legislation because they' consider it
unwise or inexpedient. House v. Mayes, ante, p. 270.
Although. the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment secures liberty of contract, it does not confer liberty to disregard lawful police regulations of the State established by the State for all
within its jurisdiction.

