OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

WEST SIDE BELT RAILROAD COMPANY v. PITTSBURGH CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 681.

Motion to dismiss or affirm. Submitted December 5, 1910.Decided January 3, 1911.

When plaintiff in error asserts that the state, court has not given due
faith and credit to a prior judgment of a Federal court between the

same parties, he asserts a right under the Constitution of the United
States and a Federal question is raised, and, unless manifestly
frivolous, the writ of error will not be dismissed.
In this case the consideration given to the Federal question by the
state court demonstrates that it is not so far frivolous as to susta i a
motion to dismiss.
Where the action is based on counts upon a contract and also upol
quantum meruit arid the evidence to sustain the latter is ruled out,
the action restg solely on the contract and the right to maintain it is
determined as though brought solely on the contract.
Where an action was dismissed by the Circuit Court of the United
States on the sole ground that plaintiff, a foreign corporation, qould
not sue owing to non-compliance with a state statute, the effect to
be given to that judgment in a subsequent action between the same
parties in the state court after a curative statute has been enacted
raises a Federal question.
Where the State by statute gives a person the right to avoid a contract for a purpose of its own and not because of the merits of the
obligation, it may, so long as the matter remains in fieri, take that
right away; and so held that a curative statute allowing foreign
corporations who had not complied with the registration statute to
sue, on complying therewith,on contracts made before'registration,
is within the power of the F-ate, and a judgment entered in an action on a contract in the ",ate court brought after the curative stat.ute does not deny full fr-ith and credit to a judgment of the Federal
court entered in an ar Lion between the same karties dismissing the
complaint on same riuse of action solely on the ground that plaintiff had not complied with the registration laws.

WEST SIDE R. R. CO. v. PITTSBURGH CONS. CO. 93
219 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The act of Pennsylvania of May 23, 1907, P. L. 205, validating contracts made by foreign corporations which had not complied with
registration laws, was within the power of the State and in this case
Awas held to apply to a contract which the courts theretofore had refused to enforce on account of the non-compliance with such registration laws.
227 Pa.St.'90, affirmed.

TuE facts, which involve the validity of a statute of
Pennsylvania validating contracts made by foreign-corporations and the effect to be given to a judgment of the
Federal court, axe stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas Patterson,for plaintiff in error, in opposition
to the motion:
The effect to be given a Federal judgment in any subsequent proceeding in a state court, where such judgment
is pleaded, raises a Federal question that is reviewable here.
PittsburghR. R. Co. v. Loan & Trust Co., 172 U. S. 493;
Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499.
The judgment of a court of record in Pennsylvania
being conclusive upon* the parties, and not open to collateral attack or inquiry, the effect necessarily to be given
by the court of Pennsylvania to the judgment of the Federal court, is that of a judgment which is as a plea a bar'
and as evidence conclusive in any f4rther litigation between the parties. Hancock National Bank v. Farnum,
176 U. S. 640; Stevens v. Hughes, 31 Pa. St. 384.
Full force and effect was not given in the case. at bar to
the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the reason that the contract, which was the basis of
the suit in the Federal court and by it declared void, was
held valid and binding in the later suit in the state court.
The contract was the same as that sued on in the Federal
court, the parties the same, and the judgment of the state
court was a direct re'ersal of that of the Federal court.
The defendant in error has never sued solely for its

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff -inError.

219 U. S.

services performed, but always on its contract and award.
Plaintiffs in error have never objected that the defendant
in error could not sue on a quantum meruit for services
performed, but have always fought the allowance of the
award.
A disposition of a case upon its merits arises where the
cause of action is determined finally as either good or bad.
It is not as where the case goes off on some collateral
matter. Roney v. Westlake, 216 Pa. St. 374. In this case
the contract itself was before the court and declared void.
Coppell v. Hare, 7 Wall. 558.
The act of May 23, 1907, did not revitalize the contract which the United States court had declared invalid,
so that it might furnish the basis of a new cause of action.
A man has a vested right in his title, in his freedom
from obligation: which he has not legally entered into, and
in a defense adjudged in his favor. United States v. Leffler,
11 Pet. 86; Ewell v. Daggs, 108 U. S.151; Gross v. U. S.
Mortgage Co., 108 U. S.488; Erskine v. Steele Co., 87 Fed.
Rep. 630; aff'd 98 Fed. Rep. 215.
The obligations of private parties must be determined
by the law in' force at the time of the transaction out
of which they accrue. Crescent City Live Stock Co. v.
Butchers' Union Slaiighter House Co., 120 U. S. 141;
Cooley's Const. Lim. 528; Sutherland on Stat. Const.,
ยง 480; Lewis v. Penna. R. R. Co., 220 Pa. St. 317; Potter's
Dwarris, 167; McMullen v. Hoffman, 174 U. S.654.
The curative act of 1907 does not change the facts upon
which the opinion of the Federal court was reached.
I The legislature cannot, and has no power to, alter the
character of the acts of the parties at the time this contract was entered into. To concede such a power would
beto give to it a greater control over the judgments of the
Federal courts* than is given to the highest appellate
courts of any State.
An appellate court must decide cases pending before it

WEST SIDE R. R. CO. v. PITTSBURGH CONS. CO. 95
219 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

in accordance with the existing laws, even though the law
may not have been passed until after the judgrtent in the
lower court was rendered. And it matters not that to give
effect to the new law the appellate court must set-aside a
judgment rightful when entered. UnitedStates v. Schooner
Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103; Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co.,
183 U. S. 115, 120; Day v. Day, 22 Maryland, 530; Simpson v. Stoddard Co., 173 Missouri, 423; Pelt v. Payne, 30.
S. W. Rep. 426; Sidway v. Lawson, 58 Arkansas, 117.
The question of the effect of the act of 1907 was before
the Circuit Court of Appeals, the act having been passed
before its decision was handed down. Since the Court of
Appeals has given no effect to this act, it has decided that
the act of 1907 does not have the effect claimed for it by
the defendant in error, to wit, the creating in the defendant in error of a new cause of action.
Mr. Edwin W. Smith and Mr. Samuel McClay for defendant in error and in support of the motion:
The decision of the Circuit Court was given full effectthe broadest possible. It was assumed by everybody upon
the second trial that without the act of 1907 there could
be no recovery on the contract-that the case had been
adjudicated. The effect of the act of 1907 was not a
Federal question: it was solely one for the state courts.
The curative act of May 23, 1907, a; the Pennsylvania
legislature is constitutional. Cooley's Const. Lim., 7th
ed., 535; Mercer v. Watson, 8 Pet. 8M6; S. C., below, 1
Watts, 358; Satterlee v. Matthewson, 16 S. & R. 169; Randall v. Krieger, 23 Wall. 137, 150; and see Gross v. Mortgage Co., 108 U. S. 477, 488; Rosenplanter v. Provident
Life Society, 96 Fed. Rep. 721; Hess v. Werts, 4 S. & R.
356.
The judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States
is res judicata only of the issues then presented, of the
facts as they appeared, and of the legislation existing at

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

the rendition of the judgment in the court below. Utter
v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 417; and, see also Barnet v. Barnet,
15 S. & R. 71; Mercer v. Watson, 1 Watts, 356; Land Co. v.
Weidner, 169 Pa. St. 364.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This is the second action between the parties, defendant in error being plaintiff in both, and the purpose of
both being the recovery of $332,750.98 upon an award of
James H. McRoberts, chief engineer of the railroad company, made under the circumstances hereinafter detailed.
In the present action the declaration contains a count
upon a quantum meruit.
The first action was brought in the United States Circuit
Ccurt for the Western District of Pennsylvania. A verdict was directed for the plaintiff, (defendant in error here)
for the full amount of the award, subject to the court's
decision upon a point reserved. Subsequently judgment
non obstante was entered for the defendant (plaintiff in
error here). One of the grounds of the motion, and, as it
was the only one considered, it is not necessary to give
the others, was that the action could not be maintained
because the plaintiff (defendant in error here) being a
foreign corporation (it was incorporated under the laws
of West Virginia) did not register as required by the
statutes of Pennsylvania, before making the contract on
which the action was based.
An act passed in 1874 provided that no foreign corporation should do business in the State until it had estAblished an office or offices and appointed an agent or agents
for the transaction of business therein. And it was made
unlawful for such corporation to do any business until it
had filed in the office of the secretary of the Commonwealth a statement, under seal, signed by the president
and secretary, showing the title and object of the corpora-

WEST SIDE R. R. CO. v. PITTSBURGH CONS. CO. 97
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, the location of its offices, and the names of its agents.
A certificate of the secretary of the Commonwealth of
such filing was required to be kept for public inspection
in every office. Transacting business without complying
with the provisions of the act was made a misdemeanor.
An act was passed in 1889 which provided that any limited partnership, bank or joint stock association organized
under the laws of the Commonwealth, or under the laws
of any other State and doing business in the Commonwealth, should register, in the office of the auditor general,
the place of its business and post office address, the names
of certain of its officers, and the amount of capital authorized and the amount paid. Such registration was also
required of every corporation then engaged in business
in the Commonwealth. Annual registration was required
thereafter. A penalty of $500 was imposed for violations
of the act.
The plaintiff had not registered at the time the contract involved in the action was made. It, however, subsequently registered.
It was held, following the decisions of the courts of
Pennsylvania, that the statutes made unlawful business
transactions within the State by a foreign corporation
which had not complied with their provisions. And it
was said:
"Nor does the award of the engineer have any efficacy
in this case. Authority on his part to.act, and the obligation of parties to abide by. his decision, rests in both
cases on the provisions of the contract which is contra
legem. The law will not enforce an award which is on an
illegal contract. Benton v. Singleton, 114 Alabama, 556."
The opinion concluded as follows:
"Upon the whole, therefore, we are of the opinion
that by reason of the non-registration of the -plaintiff
corporation prior to the 'contract here involved, the verdict for plaintiff cannot be sustained. Judgment will
VOL. ccxix-7,,

OCTOBER TERM, 191G.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

therefore be entered in favor of the defendant non obstante veredicto, but said judgment shall not bar any subsequent suit or proceeding by the plaintiff for services
performed."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, to which the case was
carried, also expressed the view, applying, as it said, the
decisions of the courts of the State, that the contract
was illegal and its illegality made Void the award made
under it. The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
Then an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania was
passed, entitled "An act validating contracts, bonds or obligations made by corporations of other States, without
first having established known places of business and designating authorized agents for the transaction of their business within this Commonwealth, and providing for the enforcement of the same." P. L. 205.
Thereupon this action was brought not only upcin the
award made by James H. Roberts, but also for work and
la'bor done as upon a quantum meruit. Among other defenses the judgment in the United States Circuit Court
was pleaded as a bar to the action, notwithstanding the
act of May 23, 1907. The trial court was of opinion that
the act "cured the defect in plaintiff's contract," and
accordingly the judgment was not a bar to the action.
The court also ruled against the other defenses, and entered
judgment for plaintiff (defendant in error here). It was
sustained by the Supreme Court of the State, on the
ground that the adjudication in the Circuit Court "settled
nothing- with respect to the merits of this case; all that
was there adjudicated was the plaintiff's right to maintain
its action as an unregistered foreign corporation." The
Supreme Court further decided that "the effect of the
act of May 23, 1907, was to remove the impediment
created by the prior act to the enforcement of the contract,
and the plaintiff had at once acquired the right to maintain an action thereon."

WEST SIDE R. R. CO. v. PITTSBURGH CONS. CO. 99
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The action of the state court deciding against the judgment of the United States Circuit Court as a bar constitutes the Federal question in ihe case, the contention of
plaintiff in error being that due faith and credit were
denied the judgment. A motion, however, is made to
dismiss the writ of error on the ground that no Federal
question is presented by the record or alternatively to
affirm the judgment.
The motion to dismiss is based on the contention that
the judgment of the Circuit Court reserved to plaintiff a
right of action for the services performed and that the
Supreme Court of the State having decided that the present action was within the reservation, it gave, not denied,
the same faith and credit it would have given to a state
judgment rendered under similar circumstances.
When a party asserts that due faith and credit have not
been given to a judgment rendered in an action between
him and the other party he asserts a right under the Constitution of the United States, and necessarily this raises
a Federal question. This is the assertion in the present
case, and the consideration which the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania gave it demonstrates that it is not so far
frivolous as to sustain a motion to dismiss. The motion
is, therefore, denied. On the other hand, we cannot say
that the motion to dismiss is without color, and pass,
therefore, to the merits for the determination of which
a fuller statement of the facts becomes necessary.
The West Side Belt Railroad Company, which we shall
refer to as the railroad company, entered into a contract.
with one Petrie to construct an extension of its road. Petie engaged to construct and complete the proposed
work in the manner and within the time called for by the
specifications, and the railroad company agreed to pay for
the work the -sum of $400,000. The contract was dated
April 25, 1901. On the twenty-fourth of May following,
Petrie, with the consent of the railroad company, entered

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

into a contract with the Pittsburgh Construction Company, referred to herein as theconstruction company, to
do the work. This contract was a transcript of the contract between Petrie and the railroad company, except as
to the consideration. Following the signatures of the parties this appears: "For value received, the Westside Belt
Company and John S. Scully and T. S. Ilarnsdall do hereby

guarantee and become surety for the payment of the
money mentioned in this contract as the same becomes
due and payable."
Under the contract James H. McRoberts was madethe
final arbitrator to determine all matters in dispute, and
disputes arose which were submitted to him. He after
full hearing made an award in favor of the construction
company in' the sum of $332,750.98.
The construction company brought the action to which
we have referred in 'the Circuit Court of the United States
against the railroad company, Scully and Barnsdall, on
their contract of guaranty for the amount of the award.
The proceedings in the Circuit Court and its judgment
and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals have been stated.
An act of May 23, 1907, mentioned above, provided
that contracts made by foreign corporations should be
binding, and might be enforced in the courts of the Commonwealth, provided the corporation had subsequently
and prior to the passage of the act complied with the laws
of the Commonwealth by establishing a known place of
business in the State and designating authorized agents
for the transaction of its business, and before commencing
any suit upon such contract, bond, or obligation and
had paid all taxes that would have accrued to the Commonwealth if it had complied with the laws at the time
of beginning business.
After the passage of the act this action was brought.
The declaration contained two counts, on for the recovery
of the sum of $332,750.98, with interest, for servies per-

WEST SIDE R. R. CO. v. PITTSBURGH CONS. CO. 101
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

formed and materials furnished, conclusively evidenced
by the award of James H. McRoberts, and the other upon
a quantum meruit for the value of the work done and
materials furnished, as of the date of the performing and
furnishing the same. Judgment was rendered for the
construction company, aswe have stated.
The decision in this case turns upon a comparison of
the two actions, and the effect of the act of May 23, 1907.
It was assumed by the trial court, and also by the Supreme Court, 'that the action in the Circuit Court was
between the same parties and upon the same cause of
action as this one. Making that assumption, the trial
court said the question was, Did the act of May 23 "revitalize the contract, which the United States court declared invalid?" And, construing the statpte, decided
that it was its intention to legalize every contract, bond
or obligation of a foreign corporation which had not complied with the laws of the State, but subsequently had
done so and paid all of the taxes which would have accrued. "The act makes no distinction," the court said,
"between contracts which have been litigated and those
which have not been litigated," and as it was found that
the plaintiff (defendant in eiror) had complied with all
the requirements of the statute, it was held that the defect in the contract was cured and the judgment of the
Circuit Court was no bar to recovery. The 8upreme Court
pronounced the ruling correct, and, we may assume,
approved the grounds upon which it was based. It is
true the learned court discussed the judgment more than
it did the act of May 23, but this, we infer, was for the
purpose of showing that the judgment in the Circuit Court
was rendered, not upon the controversies which arose between the parties in consequence of the contract, its terms,
the extent or manner of its performance or the liability
of the railroad company upon its contract of guaranty,
but "wa based," as the court said, "exclusively on the

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

plaintiff's disability to maintain the action because of its
failure to register within the State before the contract
sued upon was entered into," and that, therefore, the
judgment did not preclude a consideration of the act of
May 23 or take from it the power to "revitalize" the
contract. We agree, therefore, with the railroad company
that the effect of the act of May 23 constitutes "the real
and onlk, issue in the case."
That the action could be maintained without it is not
contended. It is true that the declaration contained a
count upon a quantum meruit, in order .to bring the case
within the reservation of the judgment of the Circuit
Court, but evidence to sustain it was ruled out upon the
objection of plaintiff in error, on the ground substantially
that the contract furnished its own measure of damages,
"ascertained in the manner set forth" in the contract,
that is, by an appraisement and award, and that the evidence offered was a "contradiction of the written contracts in the case," and therefore incompetent. The
quantum meruit, therefore, is out of the case, and the action
rests on the contract, as the action in the Circuit Court
did, and the judgment in the latter, adjudging its invalidity, is a bar to the present action, unless such effect has
been taken from it by the act of May 23, 1907. And this
is admitted. Indeed, defendant in error asserts that it
was assumed by everybody at the trial, but it is insisted
that the effect of the act is not a Federal question, but
solely one for the state courts. In this we cannot concur.
It is an element in the consideration of the question
whether due faith and credit were given to the judgment
of the Circuit Court, and we are brought to the consideration of the curative effect of the act.
In Walson v. Mercer, 8 Pet. 88, such an act was sustained-against a charge that it divested vested rights and
impaired the obligation of a contract. The act considered
made. valid the deeds of married women which were invalid

WEST SIDE R. R. CO. v. PITTSBURGH CONS. CO. 103
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by reason of defective acknowledgments, and avoided a
judgment in ejectment rendered against one of the parties
to the action because of such a defect in a deed relied on
for title. The controversy was between the successor
by descent of the married woman and the grantee in the
deed. It was said in the argument that the descents had
been confirmed by two judgments of the Supreme Court
of the State against the deed, adjudicating it to be void
on points involving its validity, which judgments, it was
contended, were conclusive evidence that the deed was
no deed, and that the rights acquired by descent were absolute vested rights. The act was nevertheless sustained,
as we have stated.
Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 380, is to the same effect.
Title was set up as a defense in an action of ejectment
to which the plaintiff replied that, conceding it to be older
and better than his, it nevertheless could not be set up
against him as the defendant was his tenant. The trial
court took that view and the Supreme Court of the State
reversed it on the ground that by the statute law of the
State the relation of landlord and tenant could not subsist
under a Connecticut title. Before the second trial of the
case the legislature of the State (Pennsylvania) passed a
law providing that the relation of landlord and tenant
should exist under such titles. This court affirmed the
judgment of the Suprqme Court of the State sustaining
the law.
The doctrine of Satterlee v. Matthewson and Walson v.
Mercer was repeated in Randall v. Kreiger, 23 Wall. 137,
150.
In Gross v. United States Mortgage Company, 108 U. S.
477, the same principles were applied to sustain an act
of the State of Illinois making valid a mortgage which
was inoperative under the provisions of prior laws. So
also Ewell v. Daggs, 108 U. S. 143.
In Utter v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 416, it was decided that

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

an act of Congress validating a defect in bonds of -the
Territory of Arizona was within the power of Congress.
The principle of the cases is declared to be by Mr.
Justice Matthews, in Ewell v. Daggs, supra, "that the
right of a defendant to avoid his contract is given to him
by statute, for purposes of its own, and not because it
affects the merits of his obligation, and that whatever the
statute gives, under such circumstances, as long as it
remains in fieri, and not realized by having passed into a
completed transaction, may, by a subsequent statute, be
taken away. It is a privilege that belongs to the remedy
and forms no element in the rights that inhere in the contract." And such view of curative statutes is entertained
by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, as indicated by
its opiniQn in the present case and the cases there cited.
The Federal question having been correctly decided,
the judgment is
Affirmed.
NOBLE STATE BANK v. HASKELL.'
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 71.

Argued December 7, 8, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911..

The chafter of a corporation which is subject to the usual reserved
powers to alter or repeal is not impaired unless the subsequent
statute deprives it of property without due process of law.
The broad words of the Fourteenth Amendment are not to be pushed
to a drily logical extreme, and the courts will be slow to strike down
as unconstitutional legislation of the States enacted under the police
power.
Where the mutual advantage is a sufficient compensation, an ulterior
public advantage may justify a comparatively insignificant taking
of private property for what in its immediate purpose is a-private use.
The police power extends to all the great public needs, Canfield v.
United States, 167 U.-S. $18, and includes the enforcement of cornSee also post, p. 575, for opinion denying motion for leave to file
petition for rehearing.

