FORE RIVER SHIPBUILDING CO. v. HAGG.
219 U. S.

175

Syllabus.

the intention of Congress that the grantee should perform
these conditions after acquiring title and taking possession, and therefore that the conditions were subsequent.
This being true, there could be no forfeiture on the part
of the United States without some appropriate judicial
or legislative action, which it is not claimed was taken
in this case. We think the Supreme Court of the State
of. Washington was right in its construction of the grant
under the circumstances shown.
The contention that the grant was abandoned by the
grantee, or that the circumstances show estoppel to make
claim under it, do not present questions reviewable here.
The state court having, in our view, properly decided the
Federal question made, upon which this court alone could
take jurisdiction, its judgment must be
Affirmed.

FORE RIVER SHIPBUILDING COMPANY v. HAGG.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 75.

Submitted December 16, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.

This court takes notice of, and inquires as to, its own jurisdiction,
whether the question is raised by counsel or not. Aansficld &c. Ry.
Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379.
Section 5 of the Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891, c. 577, 26 Stat.
826, gives a direct review of the judgment of the Circuit Court as to
its jurisdiction, not upon general grounds of law or procedure but of
the jurisdiction of thb court as a Federal court. Louisville Trust Co.
v. Knott, 191 U. S. 275; Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S. 523.
Where jurisdiction by diversity of citizenship exists, the question of
whether the Circuit Court has jurisdiction to enforce the decree of
another sovereignty is a question of general law and not a question
peculiar to the jurisdiction of the Federal court as such, and a direct
appeal will not lie to this court from the judgment of the Circuit

Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of a direct appeal under ยง 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Act of 1891, ate stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Lowell and Mr. James A. Lowell for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. Asa P. French and Mr. James S. Allen, Jr., for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here upon a question involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts to entertain the action. It was
begun in the Circuit Court by Selma T. Hagg, a citizen
of Sweden, against the Fore River Shipbuilding Company,
a corporation of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
The object of the suit was to recover damages under the
Employers' Liability Act of Massachusetts (Revised Laws,
chap. 106, ยง 73), and was for the death, without conscious
suffering, of her husband, Charles A. Hagg, an employ6
of the defendant company, resulting from an injury received in the defendant's forge shop in Quincy, Massachusetts. The action resulted in a verdict and judgment
for the plaintiff below. The defendant below moved the
court to dismiss the action on the ground that it was without jurisdiction, for the reason that the Massachusetts
statute was of a penal character, and therefore
an action
upon it could b3e maintained only in the courts of Massachusetts. The case comes here upon certificate of the
judge of the Circuit- Court, and the question stated is,
"whether or not the statute under which the plaintiff's
action was brought was of such a penal character that the
Circuit Court did not have jurisdiction of said action."
- In behalf of' the defendant company, now plaintiff in
error, it is contended that a penal action of this character

FORE RIVER SHIPBUILDING CO. v. HAGG.
219 U. S.

172

Opinion of the Court.

can be brought only in the courts of Massachusetts, and
it is insisted that such is the rule applicable to cases of
this character as between separate and distinct sovereignties. It is atgued that the act under which the suit was
brought is a penal statute, and it is insisted that the wrong
done is primarily an offense against the public, and the
relief sought not of the class of actions remedial in their
nature, wherein recovery is given in the form of compensation to the widow or children df the deceased, which
actions have been sustained in the courts of States other
thanthose enacting the statute.
The question presented, therefore is, whether owing
to the character of the Massachusetts act, the courts of
another sovereignty will enforce its provisions, or whether
the sole remedy is under the laws of the Commonwealth
enacting the statute.
This court takes notice of its own jurisdiction, and
whether the question is raised by the counsel or not, inquires of its own motion whether there is jurisdiction to
entertain any given case before it. Mansfield, Coldwater
& Lake Michigan Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379-382.
In that case Mr. Justice Matthews, who spoke for the
court, said:
"On every writ of error or appeal, the first and fundamental question is that of jurisdiction, first, of this court,
and then of the court from which the record comes. This
question the court is bound to ask and answer for itself,
even when not otherwise suggested, and without respect
to the relation of the parties to it."
We shall then inquire, Has this court jurisdiction to
entertain this attempt at a direct review of the Circuit
Court's judgment certified here upon the question of
jurisdiction? By the Court of Appeals Act of March 3,
1891 (c. 517, 26 Stat. 826), a writ of error may be taken
directly from a Circuit Court to this court in certain cases,
among which is "any case in which the jurisdiction of
VOL, ccxix-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

the court is in issue;" and it is further provided: "In
such cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below for
decision." The question then is, Does this case involve
a question of jurisdiction reviewable in the manner sought
in this case by writ of, error to the Circuit Court?
The court has had frequent occasion to determine what
is meant in the statute providing for review of cases in
which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue, and it has
been held that the statute means to give a review, not
of the jurisdiction of the court upon general grounds of
law or procedure, but of the jurisdiction of the court as a
Federal court,
A leading case on this subject, and one frequently cited
with approval since its decision, is Louisville Trust Company v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225. In that case a state court
had taken jurisdiction of an action in equity in which a
receiver was asked for and none had been appointed at
the time when another suit was begun in the Circuit Court
of the United States and a receiver appointed therein.
Thereafter the state court which had first taken jurisdiction appointed, a receiver, and upon its direction that
receiver intervened in the Federal court and asked to
have the property turned over to him. The Circuit Court
of the United States maintained its own. jurisdiction,
and refused to give the property to the, state receiver.
The case came to this court upon certificate of a question
involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit' Court of the
United States. This court dismissed the writ of error for
want of jurisdiction, holding that the question presented
was one of the equity jurisdiction of one court as against
the like jurisdiction in another court, and did not present
a distinctive question as to the jurisdiction of the Federal court as such. The former cases were reviewed, and
Mr. Justice Harlan, who spoke for the court, said:
"The question of jurisdiction which the statute permits

FORE RIVER SHIPBUILDING CO. v. HAGG.
219 U. S.

i79

Opinion of the Court.

to be certified to this court directly must be one involving

the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Federal court,
and not simply its general authority as a judicial tribunal
to proceed in harmony with established rules of practice
governing courts of concurrent jurisdiction as between
each other."
See also in this connection Bache v. Hunt, 193 U. S.523,
in which the same principle is announced.
Applying the rule thus settled to the case under consideration, there was jurisdiction in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Massachusetts
under the judiciary act, as the. plaintiff was a citizen of
Sweden and the defendant shipbuilding company a corporation of Massachusetts. Thus having jurisdiction, it
was at liberty to decide all questions properly before it,
including the one whether, under the applicable principles of law, a court of another sovereignty would enforce
a cause of action based upon the Massachusetts statute.
But the determination of that question did not involve
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as a Federal court.
It was a question to be decided upon the application of
the same principles as would apply had the action been
brought in a court of another State or nation. Whether
other sovereignties would enforce penal actions of the
character alleged to arise under the Massachusetts statute was not a question peculiar to the Federal jurisdiction of the court. It was general in its nature and to be
determined upon principles controlling in other courts
as well as those of Federal creation.
Without enlarging the discussion, and applying principles thoroughly settled in this court, we are of opinion
that a direct writ of error will not lie from the determination of the Circuit Court of the United States to exercise
its jurisdiction in the present case. The writ of error is
therefore dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Dismissed.
0

