BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

BAILEY v. STATE OF ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 300. Argued October 20. 21, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.
Prima facie evidence is sufficient to outweigh the presumption of innocence, and, if not met by opposing evidence, to support a verdict.
Kelly v. Jackson, 6 Pet. 6.32.
The validity of a statute that authorizes a jury to convict on prima
facie evidence must be judged by the fact that the jury may convict even if it is not made the duty of the jury to do so.
Although a state statute in terms be to punish fraud, if its natural
and inevitable purpose is to punish for crime for failing to perform
contracts of labor, thus compelling such performance, it violates
the Thirteenth Amendment and is unconstitutional.
A constitutional prohibition cannot be transgressed indirectly by
creating a statutory presumption any more than by direct enactment; and a State cannot compel involuntary servitude in carrying
out contracts of personal service by creating a presumption that the
person committing the breach is guilty of intent to defraud merely
because he fails to perform the contract.
While States may, without denying due process of law, enact that proof
of one fact shall be prima facie evidence of the main fact in issue,
the inference must not be purely arbitrary; there must be rational
relation between the two facts, and the accused must have proper
opportunity to submit all the facts bearing on the issue.
While its immediate concern was African slavery, the Thirteenth
Amendment was a charter of universal civil freedom for all persons
of whatever race, color, or estate, under the flag.
The words "involuntary servitude" have a larger meaning than
slavery, and the Thirteenth Amendment prohibited all control by
coercion of the personal service of one man for the benefit of another.
While the Thirteenth Amendment is self-executing, Congress has power
to secure its complete enforcement by appropriate legislation and
the peonage act of March 2, i867, and §§ 1990 and 5526, Rev. Stat.,
are valid exercises of this authority. Clyatt v. United States, 197
U. S. 207.
A peon is one who is compelled to work for his creditor until, his debt

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

219 U. S.

* is paid, and the fact that he contracted to perform the labor which
is sought to be compelled does not withdraw the attempted enforcement from the condemnation of the peonage acts.
The Federal anti-peonage acts are necessarily violated by any state
legislation which seeks to compel service or labor by making it a
crime to fail or refuse to perform it.
Although this court may not impute to a State an actual motive to
oppress by a statute which that State enacts, it must consider the
natural operation of such statute and strike it down if it becomes an
instrument of coercion forbidden by the Federal Constitution.
Section 4730 of the Code of Alabama as amended in 1907, in so far
as it makes the refusal or failure to perform labor contracted for
without refunding the money or paying for property received prima
facie evidence of the commission of Lhe crime defined by such section, and when read in connection with the rule of evidence of that
State, that the accused cannot testify in regard to uncommunicated
motives, is unconstitutional as in conflict with the Thirteenth
Amendment and of the legislation authorized by it and enacted by
Congress.
Quarre, and not necessary now to decide, whether such section is, under
the Fourteenth Amendment, an unconstitutional deprivation of
property without due process of law or denial of equal protection of
the laws.
161 Alabama, 78, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the ,constitutionality of § 4730
of the Code of Alabama as construed by the courts of
that State and the validity of a conviction thereunder,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred S. Ball, Mr. Edward S. Watts and Mr., Dan-

iel W. Troy for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr, with whom The
Attorney General was on the brief, by leave of the court,
on behalf of the United States as amicus curim:

The judgment, and the statute upon which it is based,
conflict with the Thirteenth Amendment and §§ 1990,
5526, Rev. Stat. See Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S.

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

207, 216, which settled the question, left in doubt by
Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 280. A state penal
statute will be construed by this court as though a rule
of evidence announced by the highest court of the State
as being applicable thereto was incorporated therein.
Freund, Police Power, § 448.
The act, as amended, is the result of efforts to enforce
labor contracts. See act of March 1, 1901, declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Alabama, Toney
v. The State, 141 Alabama, 120; and by the Federal court,
Peonage Cases, 123 Fed. Rep. 671, 691.
That act failing, resort was had to the statute here in
question. But first the statute, found ineffective under
Ex parte Riley, 94 Alabama, 82, upon the subject of intent, was amended by adding the prima facie clause.
Bailey v. The State, 158 Alabama, 18, 24.
The statute was further amended by the act of August 15, 1907 (Gen. Act, Ala., 1907,.p. 636), so as to cover
expressly tenants of land, and by changing the penalty so
as to make it peculiarly applicable to contracts with agricultural laborers. For history of this legislation and the
position of the Supreme Court of Alabama in regard
thereto, see Bailey v. State, 158 Alabama, 18, 22; Banks
v. State, 124 Georgia, .15; State v. Thomas, 144 Alabama,
77; Vann's Case, 150 Alabama, 66.
Even if the legislature can punish fraudulent practices
in obtaining property by false pretenses under contract
for the performance of an act or, service, such object is
clearly distinguishable from one punishing a mere breach
of contract. Freeman v. United States, 217 U. S. 539. In
whatever language a statute may be framed, its purpose
must be determined by its natural and reasonable effect.
Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S. 268.
In Florida and Mississippi, similar statutes have been
declared void under the Thirteenth Amendment by
United States judges in charges to grand juries; and see

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

219 U. S.

also a similar holding in North Carolina. So also as to the
Louisiana act of July 5, 1892, State V. Murray, 116 Louisiana, 655, though it is manifest that it punishes a mere
breach of contract. See records in this court this term
in Harlan and Gallagher v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442.
In construing the Alabama statute the court will bear
in mind that the legislature would naturally seek to accomplish by indirection what it could not do directly.
But § 1990, Rev. Stat. specifically covers such a case.
Freeman v. United States, 217 U. S. 539, distinguished.
A breach of a contract for personal service upon which
advances have been received cannot be made prima facie
evidence of a fraudulent intent in entering into the contract. Ex parte Riley, 94 Alabama, 82; State v. Williams,
63 S. E. Rep. 949; Ex parte Hollman, 79 S. E. Rep. 9;
Vankirk v. Staats, 24 N. J. L. 121; Adams v. New York,
192 U. S. 585; Commonwealth v. Williams, 6 Gray (Mass.),
1. State v. Kingsley, 108 Missouri, 135, holds that it is
necessary to establish fraudulent intent before the prima
facie rule in this statute becomes operative, and see State
v. Yardley, 95 Tennessee,; 516, to same effect, that where
the only thing shown was a refusal to pay, the fraudulent
intent must be proved before the prima facie rule could
become operative. 'In this case mere breach of contract
is made evidence of the fraudulent intent.
The prima facie rule established by the Alabama statute, as shown by this case, is unyielding. The inference
under that statute of an intent to defraud from a mere
breach of the contract is as absolute when the breach
occurs eleven months thereafter as when it occurs one
'day after the making of the contract.
The judgment in this case, and the statute of Alabama
upon which it is founded, are in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. They deny the defendant the equal
protection of the laws. The statute hits especially, as was
intended, negro laborers on farms and plantations. Every

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

223'

Argument for the United States.

reported case under the statute is that of a farm laborer.
The maximum penalty fixed by the statute, $300; also
makes it peculiarly applicable to this class of laborers.
See Ex parte Drayton, 153 Fed. Rep. 986, holding unconstitutional on those grounds a similar statute of South
Carolina.
Even if the Alabama statute, as originally enacted, was
not to be regarded as class legislation, the subsequent
amendments render it so, and the actual enforcement of
the statute against a single class of laborers alone, denies
equal protection. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356,
373; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540,
558; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
151.
Even if the employers of such labor have much to
complain of, it does not relieve the statute of the taint
of unconstitutionality. See Judge Jones' charge to grand
jury in the Peonage Cases, 123 Fed. Rep. 691'
Although the legislature may provide that when certain facts have been proved they shall be prima facie evidence of the existence of the main fact, the fact upon which
the presumption is to rest must have some fair relation
to, or natural connection with, the main fact. People v.
Cannon, 139 N. Y. 32, 43; State v. Beswick, 13 R. I. 211.
A law which practically shuts. out the evidence of a
party, thus denying him the opportunity for a trial, substantially deprives him of due process of law. Commissioners v. Merchant, 103 N. Y. 143, 148; Commonwealth v.
Rubin, 165 Massachusetts, 453; Kelly v. Jackson, 6 Pet.
622, 631; Greenleaf on Evidence, § 33; Vankirk v. Staats,
24 N. J. L. 121; Steinhardt v. Beir, 60 N. Y. Super. Ct.
Rep. 489; Mooney v. LaFollette, 21 N. Y. App. Div. 510;
McCormick v. Joseph, 77 Alabama, 236, 240; Coffn v.
United States, 156 U. S. 432, 453; State v. Thomas, 144
Alabama, 77, and see Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.
78, 101, as to the guaranties of due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

.219 U. S.

Mr. Alexander M. Garber, Attorney General of the State

of Alabama, and Thomas W. Martin for defendant in
error:
The statute was designed to punish a certain class of
frauds not then punished by any statute.
The original and amended statute has been frequently
construed by the Supreme Court of Alabama and the
court has consistently held that the purpose of the statute was to punish fraudulent practices and not the mere
failure to pay a debt.
The offense is but a species of the common-law crime
of cheating by false pretenses, and if in fact the statute
does define and punish a crime, there can be no question
here of its validity. See -for history of the legislation,
Riley v. State, 94 Alabama, 82; Toney v. State, 141 Ala-

bama, 120; Peonage Cases, 123 Fed. Rep. 671, 690, and
Ex parte Drayton, 153 Fed. Rep. 986, considering a statute of South Carolina.
For decisions involving similar legislation, see Lamar v.
State, 120 Georgia, 312; State v. Williams (N. C.), 63 S.E.
Rep. 949; Ex parte Hollman, 79 S. C. 9; S. C., 21 L. R. A.
(N. S.) 242. No case can be found from any jurisdiction
in which a statute similar to the one under consideration
has been held to be invalid.
Unless the original statute is held invalid, there can
be no condition of peonage incident to a conviction thereunder. The rule of evidence does not, of itself, or as an
amendment to the original statute, make a condition of
peonage.
The statute at present is wholly different from the law
held invalid in Toney v. State, 141 Alabama, 120, and in
the Peonage Cases, 123 Fed. Rep. 671.

See Bailey v.

State, 158 Alabama, 18; Slate v. Vann, 150 Alabama, 66.
Thie statute was meant to prevent employ6s from making fraudulent contracts and to prevent them from obtaining money by promising service. McIntosh v. State,

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

117 Alabama, 127. The essential ingredient of the offense
is fraud in entering into the contract of employment. If
invalid so are all statutes aimed at the obtaining of goods
of another by false pretenses. The victim in all such cases
has a civil right of action against the party who thus obtains his money. But this fadt does not deprive the State
of its inherent right to punish the criminal act involved
in that transaction.
The Alabama Supreme Court has held that the basal
fact is fraud and that the statute does not Violate the
provision of the state constitution against imprisonment
for debt. This construction of the state constitution is conclusive on this court. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 360;
Noble v. Mitchell, 164 U. S. 367. The only question left
for determination is whether the statute as thus construed
violates the Thirteenth Amendment or the peonage statute. Mo. Co. v. McCann, 174 U. S. 575; Am. Steel & Wire
Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 523. This court cannot hold the
law to be violative either of that Amendment, or of the
peonage statute except on the theory that it imprisons
for a debt. As to what is peonage, see Clyatt v. United
States, 197 U. S. 207; see also Freeman v. United States,
217 U. S. 539.
The provision of the present statute which provides
for a fine in double the damage suffered by the injured
party, half to go to the county and the other half to such
party, is valid. Freeman v. United States, supra;Re Ebenhacle, 17 Kansas, 615; Maryland v. Nicholson, 67 Maryland, 1; State v. Yardley, 95 Tennessee, 546.
The act does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment
in that it applies only to persons who enter 4nto contracts
for the performance of an act or service or for the rent
of land; that it does not bear equally upon the employ6
and the employer, and that-it is applied only against
laborers and the colored race. It applies to every person who with a fraudulent purpose enters into a written
voL. ccxix-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

219 U. S.

contract to perform an act or service for another, and
thereby obtains money. Clark v. Kansas City, 176 U. S.
144.
The legislature may establish a primafacie rule of evidence in criminal cases. Li Sing v. United States, 180
U. S. 485; Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585; Ah How v.
United States, 193 U. S. 65; Fong v. United States, 149
U. S. 697, 719; Commonwealth v. Williams, 6 Gray (Mass.),
1; State v. Beach, 147 Indiana, 74; State v. Buck, 120 Missouri, 479; State v. Kingsley, 108 Missouri, 135; Meadowcraft v. People, 163 Illinois, 56; Barker v. State, 54 Wisconsin, 368; Robertson v. People, 20 Colorado, 279; Voght
v. State, 124 Indiana, 358; People v. Cannon, 139 N. Y.
32; Commissioners v. Merchant, 105 N. Y. 148; Re Milecke, 100 Pac. Rep. 743.
The validity of this provision has been upheld by the
Supreme Court of Alabama in Bailey v. State, 158 Alabama, 18; State v. Vann, 150 Alabama, 66; State v. Thomas,
144 Alabama, 77.
The fact that Bailey could not testify to his uncommunicated motive or intention does not prove that he
was unable to prove his innocence. If a rule of evidence
which excludes the defendant from testifying as to his
motives has the effect of making the rule of evidence
prescribed by the statute a conclusive rule, it is due to
the particular facts and not to the statute itself.
A prima facie rule of evidence in a criminal case does
not overcome the presumption of innocence or change
the burden of proof or require the jury to convict, unless
they are satisfied from all the evidence of the guilt of the
accused beyond a reasonable doubt. 24 Cyc. 192.
The presumption of innocence does not attend a defendant throughout the whole trial but only until sufficient evidence is introduced to overcome the proof which
the law has created. Coffin v. United States, 156 U. S.
453; Martin v. State, 104 Alabama, 78; Wilson v. United

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States, 162 U. S. 613; Considine v. United States, 112 Fed.
Rep. 342; Newson v. State, 107 Alabama, 133, 139.
MR.JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of .Alabama, affirming a judgment of conviction in the Montgomery City Court. The
statute, upon which the conviction was based, is assailed
as in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States upon the ground that it
deprived the plaintiff in error of his liberty without due
process of law and denied him the equal protection of
the laws, and also of the Thirteenth Amendment and of
the act of Congress providing for the enforcement of that
Amendment, in that the effect of the statute is to enforce
involuntary servitude by compelling personal service in
liquidation of a debt.
The statute in question is § 4730 of the Code of Alabama of 1896, as amended in 1903 and 1907. The section
of the Code as it stood before the amendments provided
that any person who with intent to injure or defraud his
employer entered into a written contract for service and
thereby obtained from his employer money or other personal property, and with like intent and without just
cause, and without refunding the money or paying for
the property refused to perform the service, should be
punished as if he had stolen it. In 1903 (Gen. Acts, Ala.,
1903, p. 345) the section was amended so as to make the
refusal or failure to perform the service, or to refund the
money or pay for the property, without just cause, prima
facie evidence of the intent to injure or defraud. This
amendment was enlarged by that of 1907. Gen. Acts,
Ala., 1907, p. 636. The section, thus amended, reads as
follows:
"Any person, who with intent to injure or defraud his

OCTOBER TERM 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

employer, enters into a contract in writing for the performance of any act of service, and thereby obtains money
or other personal property from such employer, and with
like intent, and without just cause, and without refunding such money, or paying for such property, refuses or
fails to perform such act or service, must on conviction
be punished by a fine in double the damage suffered by
the injured party, but not more than $300, one-half of
said fine to go to the county and one-half to the party
injured; and any person, who with intent to injure or defraud his landlord, enters into any contract in writing
for the rent of land, and thereby obtains any money or
other personal property from such landlord, and with
like intent, without just cause, and without refunding
such money, or paying for such property, refuses or fails
to cultivate such land, or to comply with his contract
relative thereto, must on conviction be punished by fine
in double the damage suffered by the injured party, but
not more than $300, one-half of said fine to go to the
county and one-half to the party injured. And the refusal
or failure of any person, who enters into such contract,
to perform such act or service or to cultivate such land,
or refund such money, or pay for such. property without
just cause shall be prima facie evidence of the intent to
injure his employer or landlord or defraud him. That all
laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions
hereof be and the same are hereby repealed."
There is also a rule of evidence enforced by the courts
of Alabama which must be regarded as having the same
effect as if read into the statute itself, that the accused,
for the purpose of rebutting the statutory presumption,
shall not be allowed to testify "as to his uncommunicated motives,.purpose or intention." Bailey v. The State,
161 Alabama, 77, 78.
Bailey, the plaintiff in error, was committed for detention on the charge of obtaining fifteen dollars under a

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contract in writing with intent to injure or defraud his
employer. He sued out a writ of habeas corpus.challenging the validity of the statute. His discharge was refused
and the Supreme Court of the State affirmed the order,
holding the statute to be constitutional. 158 Alabama,
18. On writ of error from this court it was held that the
case was brought here prematurely, and the questions
now presented were expressly reserved. Bailey v. Alabama, 211 U. S. 452.
Having failed to obtain his release on habeas corpus,
Bailey was indicted on the following charge:
"The Grand Jury of said County charge, that before
the finding of this indictment Alonzo Bailey with intent
to injure or defraud his employer The Riverside Company, a corporation, entered into a written contract to
perform labor or services for The Riverside Company, a
corporation and obtained thereby the sum of Fifteen
Dollars from the said The Riverside Company, and afterwards with like intent, and without just cause, failed or
refused to perform such labor or services or to refund
such money against the peace and dignity of the State
of Alabama."
Motion to quash and a demurrer to the indictment
were overruled. Upon the trial the following facts appeared: On December 26, 1907, Bailey entered into a
written contract with the Riverside Company, which
provided:
"That I Lonzo Bailey for and in consideration of the
sum of Fifteen Dollars in money, this day in hand paid
to me by said The Riverside Co., the receipt whereof, I
do hereby acknowledge, I, the said Lonzo Bailey do
hereby consent, contract and agree to work and labor
for the said Riverside Co. as a farm hand on their Scotts
Bend Place in Montgomery County, Alabama, from the
30 day of Dec. 1907, to the 30 day of Dec. 1908, at and
for the sum of 12.00 per month.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

"And the said Lonzo Bailey agrees to render respectful and faithful service to the said The Riverside Co. and
to perform diligently and actively all work pertaining to
such employment, in accordance with the instructions.
of the said The Riverside Co., or ag't.
"Antl the said The Riverside Co. in consideration of
the agreement above mentioned of the said Lonzo Bailey
hereby employs the said Lonzo Bailey as such farm hand
for the time above set out, and agrees to pay the said
Lonzo Bailey the sum of $10.75 per month."
The manager of the employing company testified that.
at the time of entering into this contract there were
present only the witness and Bailey and that the latter
then obtained from the company the sum of fifteen dollars; that Bailey -worked under the contract throughout
the month of January and for three or four days in February, 1908, and then, "without just cause and without
refunding the money, ceased to work for said Riverside
Company, and has not since that time performed any
service for said Company in accordance with or under
said contract, and has refused and failed to perform any
further service thereunder, and has, without just cause,
refused and failed to refund said fifteen dollars." He also
testified, in response to a question *from the attorney for
the defendant a.nd against the objection of the Statethat
Bailey was a negro. No other evidence was introduced.
The court, after defining the crime in the language of
the, statute, charged the jury, in accordance with its
terms, as follows:
"And the refusal of any person who enters into such
contract to perform such act or service, or refund such
money, or pay for such property,' without just cause,
shall be prima facie evidence of the intent to injure his
qmployer,
or to defraud him."
Bailey excepted'to
these instructions, and requested
the court to instruct the jury that the statute, and the

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provision creating the presumption, were invalid, and
further that "the refusal or failure of the defendant to
perform the service alleged in the indictment, or to refund the money obtained from the Riverside Co. under
the contract between it and the defendant, without cause,
does not of itself make out a prima facie case of the defendant's intent to injure or defraud said Riverside Company."
The court refused these instructions and Bailey took
exceptior
The jury found the accused guilty, fixed the damages
sustained by the injured party at fifteen dollars, and assessed a fine of thirty dollars. Thereupon Bailey was
sentenced by the court to pay the fine of thirty dollars
and the costs, and in default thereof to hard labor "for
twenty days in lieu of said fine and one hundred and sixteen days on account of said costs."
On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the constitutionality of the statute was again upheld and the
judgment affirmed. 161 Alabama, 75.
We at once dismiss from consideration the fact that
the plaintiff in error is a black man. While the action of
a State through its officers charged with the administration of a law, fair in appearance, may be of such a character as to constitute a denial of the equal protection of
the laws (Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 373), such
a conclusion is here neither required nor justified. The
statute, on its face, makes no racial discrimination, and
the record fails to show its existence in fact. No question
of a sectional character is presented, and we may view
the legislation in the same manner as if it had been enacted
in New York or in Idaho. Opportunities for coercion and,
oppression, in varying circumstances, exist in all parts of
the Union, and the citizens of all the States are interested
in the maintenance of the constitutional guarantees, the
consideration of which is here involved.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U.S.

Prior to the amendment of the year 1903, enlarged in
1907, the statute did not make the mere breach of the
contract, under which the employ6 had obtained from
his employer money which was not refunded or property
which was not paid for, a crime. The essential ingredient
of the offense was the intent of the accused to injure or
defraud. To justify conviction, it was necessary that
this intent should be established by competent evidence,
aided only by such inferences as might logically be derived from the facts proved, and should not be the subject of mere surmise or arbitrary assumption.
This was the construction which the Supreme Court
of Alabama placed upon the statute, as it then stood, in
Ex parte Riley, 94 Alabama, 82. In that case the court
said (pp. 83, 84):
"The ingredients of this statutory offense are: (1) a
contract in writing by the accused for the performance
of any act or service; (2) an intent on the part of the accused, when he entered into the contract, to injure or
defraud his employer; (3) the obtaining by the accused
of money or other personal property from such employer
by means of such contract entered into with such intent;
and (4) the refusal by the accused, with like intent, and
without just cause, and without refunding such money,
or paying for such property, to perform such act or service. This statute by no means provides that a person
who has entered into a written contract for the performance of services, under which he has obtained money
or other personal property, is punishable as if he had
stolen such money or other personal property, upon his
refusal to perform the contract, without refunding the
*money or paying for the property. A mere breach of a
contract is not by the statute made a crime. The criminal feature of the transaction is Wanting unless the accused entered into the contract with intent to injure or
defraud his employer, and unless his refusal to perform
-

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was with like intent and without just cause. That there
was an intent to injure or defraud the employer, both
when the contract was entered into and when the accused
refused performance, are facts which must be shown by
the evidence. As the intent is the design, purpose, resolve or determination in the mind of the accused, it can
rarely be proved by direct evidence, but must be ascertained by means of inferences from the facts and circumstances developed by the proof. Carlisle v. The State, 76
Alabama, 75; Mack v. The State, 63 Alabama, 136. In
the absence, however, of evidence from which such inferences may be drawn, the jury are not justified in indulging in mere unsupported conjectures, speculations or
suspicions as to intentions which were not disclosed by,
any visible or tangible act, expression or circumstance.Green v. The State, 68 Alabama, 539." See also Dorsey v.
The State, 111 Alabama, 40; McIntosh v. The State, 117
Alabama, 128.
We pass then to the consideration of the amendment,
through the operation of which under the charge of the
trial court this conviction was obtained. No longer was
it necessary for the prosecution to comply with the rule
of the Riley case (supra) in order to establish the intent
to injure or defraud which, as the court said, constituted
the gist of the offense. It was "the difficulty in proving
the intent, made patent by that decision" which "suggested the amendment of 1903." Bailey v. The State,
158 Alabama, p. 25. By this amendment it was provided,
in substance, that the, refusal or failure to perform the
service contracted for, or to refund the money obtained,
without just cause, should be prima facie evidence of the
intent to injure or defraud.
But the refusal or failure to perform the service, without just cause, constitutes the breach of the contract.
The justice of the grounds of refusal or failure must, of
course, be determined .by the contractual obligation as-

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

sumed. Whatever the reason for leaving the service, if,
judged by the terms of the contract, it is insufficient' in
law, it is not "just cause." The money received and repayable, nothing more being shown, constitutes a mere
debt. The asserted difficulty of proving the intent to injure or defraud is thus made the occasion for dispensing
with such proof, so far as the primafacie case is concerned.
And the mere breach of a contract for personal service,
coupled with the mere 'failure to pay a debt which was'
to be liquidated in the course, of such service, is made
sufficient to warrant a conviction.
It is no answer to say that the jury must find, and here
found, that a fraudulent intent existed. The jury by their
verdict cannot add to the facts before them. If nothing
be shown but a mere breach of a contract of service and
a mere failure to pay a debt, the jury have nothing else
to go upon, and the evidence becomes nothing more because of their finding. 'Had it not been for this statutory
presumption, supplied by the amendment, no one would
*be heard to say that Bailey could have been convicted.
Primafacie evidence is sufficient evidence to outweigh'
the presumption of innocence and if not met by opposing
evidence to support a verdict of guilty. "It is such as,
in judgment of law, is sufficient to. establish the fact; and,
if not rebutted, remains sufficient for the purpose." Kelly
v. Jackson, 6 Pet. 632.
We are not impressed with the argument that the Supreme Court of Alabama has construed the amendment
to mean that the jury is not controlled by the presumption, if unrebutted, and still may find the accused not
guilty. That court, in its opinion, said: "Again, it must
be borne in mind that the rule of evidence fixed by the
statute does not make it the duty of the jury to convict
on the evidence referred to in the enactment, if unrebutted, whether satisfied thereby of the guilt of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt or not. On the con-

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trary, with such evidence before them, the jury are still
left free to find the accused guilty or not guilty, according
as they may be satisfied of his guilt or not, by the whole
evidence." 161 Alabama, 78.
But the controlling construction of the statute is the
affirmance of this judgment of conviction. It is not sufficient to declare that the statute does not make it the duty
of the jury to convict, where there is no other evidence
but the breach of the contract and the failure to pay the
debt. The point is that, in such a case, the statute authorizes the jury to convict. It is not enough to say that
the jury may not accept that evidence as alone sufficient;
for the jury may accept it, and they have the express.warrant of the statute to accept is as a basis for their verdict.
And it is in this light that the validity of the statute must
be determined.
It is urged that the time and circumstances of the departure from service may be such as to raise not only an
inference, but a strong inference, of fraudulent intent.
There was no need to create a statutory presumption and
it was not created for such a case. Where circumstances
are shown permitting a fair inference of fraudulent purpose, the case falls within the rule of Ex parte Riley (supra)
which governed prosecutions under the statute before the
amendment was made. The "difficulty," which admittedly the amendment was intended to surmount, did not
exist where natural inferences sufficed. Plainly the object
of the statute was to hit cases which were destitute of such
inferences, and to provide that the mere breach of the contract and the mere failure to pay the debt might do duty
in their absence.
While in considering the natural operation and effect of
the statute, as amended, we are not limited to the particular facts of the case at the bar, they present an illuminating illustration. We may briefly restate them. Bailey
made a contract to work for a year at $12 a month. He

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opini6n of the Court.

219 U. S.

received $15 and he was to work this out, being entitled
monthly only to $10.75 of his wages. No one was present
when he made the contract but himself and the manager
of the employing company. There is not a particle of
evidence of any circumstance indicating that he made
the contract or received the money with any intent to injure or defraud his employer. On the contrary, he actually
worked for upwards of a month. His motive in leaving
does not appear, the only showing being that it was without legal excuse and that he did not repay the money received. For this he is sentenced to a fine of $30 and to
imprisonment at hard labor in default of the payment of
the fine and costs for 136 days. Was not the case the same
in effect as if the statute had made it a criminal act to
leave the service without just cause and without liquidating the debt? To say that he has been found guilty of an
intent to injure or defraud his employer, and not merely
for breaking his contract and not paying his debt, is a distinction without a difference to Bailey.
Consider the situation of the accused under this statutory presumption. If at the outset nothing took place but
the making of the contract and the receipt of'the money,
he could show nothing else. If there was no legal justification for his leaving his employment, he could show none.
If he had not paid the debt there was nothing to be said
as to that. The law of the State did not permit him to
testify that he did not intend to injure or defraud. Unless he were fortunate enough to be able to command evidence of circumstances affirmatively showing good faith,
he was helpless. Ile stood, stripped by the statute of the
presumption of innocence, and exposed to conviction for
fraud upon evidence only of breach of contract and failure
to pay.
It is said that we may assume that a fair jury would
convict only where the circumstances sufficiently indicated a fraudulent intent. Why should this be assumed

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the face of the statute and upon this record? In the
present case the jury did convict, although there is an
absence of evidence sufficient to establish fraud under the
familiar rule that fraud will not be presumed, and the
obvious explanation of the verdict is that the trial court
in accordance with the statute charged the jury that
refusal to perform the service, or to repay the money,
without just cause, constituted prima facie evidence of
the commission of the offense which the statute defined.
That is, the jury were told in effect that the evidence, under the statutory rule, was sufficient, and hence they
treated it as such. There is no basis for an assumption
that the jury would have acted differently if Bailey had
worked for three .months, or six months, or nine 'months,
if in fact his debt had not been paid. The normal assumption is that the jury will follow the statute and, acting in accordance with the authority it confers, will accept as sufficient what. the statute expressly so describes.
It may further be observed that under the statute there
is no punishment for the alleged fraud if the service is
performed or the money refunded. If the service is rendered in liquidation of the debt there is no punishment,
and if it is not rendered and the money is not refunded
that fact alone is sufficient for conviction. By a statute
passed by the legislature of Alabama in 1901 it was made
a misdemeanor for any person, who had made a written
contract to labor for or serve another for any given time,
to leave the service before the expiration of the contract
and without the consent of the employer, and to make a
second contract of similar nature with another person
without giving the second employer notice of the existence
of the first contract. This was held unconstitutional up9n
the ground that it interfered with freedom of contract.
Toney v. The State, 141 Alabama, 120. But, judging it
by its necessary operation and obvious effect, the"fundamental purpose plainly Nas to compel, under the sanction

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

of the criminal law, the enforcement of.the contract for
personal service, and the same purpose,. tested by like
criteria, breathes despite its different phraseology through
the amendments of 1903 and 1907 of the statute here in
question.
We cannot escape the conclusion that, although the
statute in terms is to punish fraud, still its natural and inevitable effect is to expose to conviction for crime those
who simply fail or refuse to perform -contracts for personal service in liquidation of a debt, and judging its purpose by its effect that it seeks in this way to provide the
means of compulsion through which performance of such
service may be secured. The question is whether such a
statute is constitutional.
This. court has frequently recognized the general power
of every legislature to prescribe the evidence which shall
be received, and the effect of that evidence in the courts
of its own government. Fong Yue Ting v. United States,
149 U. S. 698, 749. In the exercise of this power numerous statutes have been enacted providing that proof of
one 'fact shall be prima facie evidence of the main fact in
issue; and where the inference is not purely arbitrary and
there is a rational relation between the two facts, and the
accused is not deprived of a proper opportunity to submit al" the facts bearing upon the issue, it has been 'held
that such statutes do not violate the requirements of due
process of law. Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585;
Mobile, Jackson & Kansas City RailroadCo.-v. Turnipseed,
decided December 19, 1910, ante, p. 35.
The latest expression upon this point is found in the
case last cited, where the court, by Mr. Justice' Lurton,
,said: "That a legislative presumption of one fact from
evidence of another may not constitute a denial 'of due
process of law or a denial of the equal protection of the
law it is only essential that there shall be some ratiopal
connection between the fact proved and the ultimate fact

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
2i9 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

presumed, and that the inference of one fact from proof
of another shall not be so unreasonable as to be a purely
arbitrary mandate. So, also, it must not, under guise of
regulating the presentation of evidence, operate to preclude the party from the right to present his defense to the
main fact thus presumed. If a legislative provision not
unreasonable in itself prescribing a rule of evidence, in
either criminal or civil cases, does not shut out from the
party affected a reasonable opportunity to submit to the
jury in his defense all of the facts bearing upon the issue,
there is no ground for holding that due process of law has
been denied him."
In this class of cases where the entire subject-matter of
the legislation is otherwise within state control, the question has, been whether the prescribed rule of evidence interferes with the guaranteed equality, before the law or
violates those fundamental rights and immutable principles of justice which are embraced within the conception
of due process of law. But where the conduct or fact, the
existence of Which is made the basis of the statutory presumption, itself falls within the scope of a provision of the
Federal Constitution, a further question arises. It is apparent that a constitutional prohibition cannot be transgressed indirectly by the creation of a statutory presumption any more .than it can be violated by direct enactment.
The power to create presumptions is not a means of escape
from constitutional restrictions. And the State may not
in this way interfere with matters withdrawn from its
authority by the Federal Constitution or subject an accused to conviction for conduct which'it is powerless to
proscribe.
In the present case it is urged that the statute as
amended, through the operation of the presumption for
which it provides, violates the Thirteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States and the act of Congress pased for its enforcement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
/ Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

The Thirteenth Amendment provides:
"SECTION 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall

have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United
States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
"SECTION 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this
article by appropriate legislation."
Pursuant to the authority thus conferred, Congress
passed the act of March 2, 1867, c. 187, 14 Stat. 546, the
provisions of which are now found in §§ 1990 and 5526 of
the Revised Statutes, as follows:
"SEC. 1990. The holding of any person to service or
labor under the system known as peonage is abolished and
forever prohibited in the Territory of New Mexico, or in
any other Territory or State of the United States; and all
acts, laws, resolutions, orders, regulations, or usages of the
Territory of New Mexico, or of any other Territory or
State, which have heretofore established, maintained, or
enforced, or by virtue of which any attempt shall hereafter
be made to establish, maintain, or enforce, directly or indirectly, the voluntary or involuntary service or labor of
any persons as peons, in liquidation of any debt or obligation, or otherwise, are declared null and void."
"SEC. 5526. Every person who holds, arrests, returns,
or causes to be held, arrested, or returned, or in any manner aids in the arrest or return of any person to a condition of peonage, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
one thousand nor more than five thousand, dollars, or by
imprisonment not less than one year nor more than five
years, or by both."
The language of the Thirteenth Amendment was not
new. It reproduced the historic words of the ordinance
of 1787 for the government of the Northwest Territory
and gave them unrestricted application within the United
States and all places subject to their jurisdiction. While
the immediate concern was with African slavery, the

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.

219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment was not limited to that. It was a charter of
universal civil freedom for all persons, of whatever race,
cQlor or estate, under the flag.
The words involuntary servitude have a "larger meaning than slavery." "It was very well understood that in
the form of apprenticeship for long terms, as it had been
practiced in-the West India Islands, on the abolition of
slavery by the English government, or by reducing the
slaves to the condition of serfs attached to the plantation,
the purpose of the article might have been evaded, if only
the word slavery had been used." Slaughter House Cases,
16 Wall. p. 69. The plain intention was to abolish slavery
of whatever name and form and all its badges and incidents; to render impossible any state of bondage; to make
labor free, by prohibiting that control by which the personal service of one man is disposed of or coerced for another's benefit which is the essence of involuntary servitude.
While the Amendment was self-executing, so far as its
terms were applicable to any existing condition, Congress
was authorized td secure its complete enforcement by appropriate legislation. As was said in the Civil Rights cases:
"By its own unaided force and effect it abolished slavery,
and established universal freedom. Still, legislation may
be necessary and proper to meet all the various cases and
circumstances to be affected by it, and to prescribe proper
modes of redress for its violation in letter or spirit. And
such legislation may be primary and direct in its character; for the Amendment is not a mere prohibition of
state laws establishing or upholding slavery, but an absolute declaration that slavery or involuntary servitude shall
not exist in any part of the United States." 109 U. S.20.
The act of March 2, 1867 (Rev. Stat., §§ 1990, 5526,
supra), was a valid exercise of this express authority.
Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S.207. It declared that all
laws of any State, by virtue of which any attempt should
be made "to establish, maintain, or enforce, directly or
VOL. ccxix-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

indirectly, the voluntary or involuntary service or labor
of any persons as peons, in liquidation of any debt or obligation, or otherwise," should be null and void.
Peonage is a term descriptive of a condition which has
existed in Spanish America, and especially in Mexico. The
essence of the thing is compulsory service in payment of a
debt. A peon is one who is compelled to work for his
creditor until his debt is paid. And in this explicit and
comprehensive enactment, Congress was not concerned
with mere names or manner of description, or with a particular place or section of the country. It was concerned
with a fact, wherever it might exist; with a condition,
however named and wherever it might be established,
maintained or enforced.
The fact that the debtor contracted to perform the labor
which is sought to be compelled does not withdraw the
attempted enforcement from the condemnation of the
statute. The full intent of the constitutional provision
could be defeated with obvious facility if, through the
guise of contracts under which advances had been made,
debtors could be held to compulsory service. It is the
compulsion of the service that the statute inhibits, for
when that occurs the condition of servitude is created,
which would be not less involuntary'because of the original
agreement to work out the indebtedness. The contract
exposes the debtor to liability for the loss due to the
breach, but not to enforced labor. This has been so
clearly stated by this court in the case of- Clyatt, supra,
that discussion is unnecessary. The court there said:
"The constitutionality, and scope of sections 1990 and
5526 present the first questions for our consideration.
They prohibit peonage. What is peonage? It may be defined as a status or condition of compulsory service, based
upon the indebtedness of the peon to the master. The
basal fact is indebtedness. As said by Judge Benedict,
delivering the opinion in Jaremillo v. Romero, 1 N. Mex.

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

190, 194: 'One fact existed universally; all were indebted
to their masters. This was the cord by which they seemed
bound to their masters' service.' Upon this is based a
condition of compulsory service. Peonage is sometimes
classified as voluntary or involuntary, but this implies
simply a difference in the mode of origin, but none in the
character of the servitude. The one exists where the
debtor voluntarily contracts to enter the service of his
creditor. The other is forced upon the debtor by some
provision of law. But peonage, however created, is conipilsory service, involuntary servitude. The peon can release himself therefrom, it is true, by the payment of the
debt, but otherwise. the service is enforced. A clear dis'tinction exists between peonage and the voluntary performance of labor or rendering of services in payment of a
debt. In the latter case the debtor, though contracting to
pay his indebtedness by labor or service, and subject like
any other contractor to an action for damages for breach
of that contract, can elect at any time to break it, and no
law or force compels performance ora continuance of the
service. We need not stop to consider any possible limits
or exceptional cases, such as the service of a sailor, Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, or the obligations of a child
to its parents, or of an apprentice to his master, or the
power of the legislature to make unlawful and punish
criminally an abandonment by an employ6 of his post of
labor in any extreme cases. That which is contemplated
by the statute is compulsory service to secure the payment
of a debt." 197 U. S. pp. 215, 216.
The act of Congress, nullifying all state laws by which
it should be attempted to enforce the "service or labor of
any persons as peons, in liquidation of any debt or obligation, or otherwise," necessarily embraces all legislation
which seeks to compel the service or labor by making it a
crime to refuse or fail to perform it. Such laws would
furnish the readiest means of compulsion. The Thirteenth

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Amendment prohibits involuntary servitude except as
punishment for crime. But the exception, allowing full
latitude for the enforcement of penal laws, does not destroy the prohibition. It does,not permit slavery or
involuntary servitude to be established or maintained
through the operation of the criminal law by making it a
crime to refuse to submit to the one or to render the service
which would constitute the other. The State may impose
involuntary servitude as a punishment for crime, but it
may not cotnpel one man to labor for another in payment
of a debt, by punishing him as a criminal if he does not
perform the service or pay the debt.
If the statute in-this case had authorized the employing
company to seize the.debtor and hold him to the service
until he paid the fifteen dollars, o- had furnished the
equivalent in labor, its invalidity would not be questioned.
It would be equally clear that the State could not authorize its constabulary to prevent the servant from escaping and to force him to work out his debt. But the State
could not avail itself of the sanction of the criminal law
to supply the compulsion any more than'it could use or
authorize the use of physical force. "In contemplation of
the law the compulsion to such service by the fear of
punishment under a criminal statute is more powerful
than any guard which the employer could station." Ex
parte Hollman (S. Car.), 60 S. E. Rep. 24..
What the State may not do directly it may not do indirectly. If it cannot punish the servant as a criminal for
the mere failure or refusal to serve without paying his
debt, it is not permitted to accomplish the same result by
.creating a statutory presumption which upon proof of no
other fact exposes him to conviction and punishment.
Without imputing any actual motive to oppress, we must
consider the natural operation of the statute'here in question (Hendersonv. Mayor, 92 U. S. p. 268), and it is apparent that it furnishes a convenient instrument for the coer-

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

HOLMES and LURTON, JJ., dissenting.

cion which the Constitution and the act of Congress forbid;
an instrument of compulsion peculiarly effective as against
the poor and the ignorant, its most likely victims. There
is no more important concern than to safeguard the freedom of labor upon which alone can enduring prosperity
be based. The provisiqns designed to secure it would soon
become a barren form if it were possible to establish a
statutory presumption of this sort and to hold over the
heads of laborers the threat of punishment for crime, under the name of fraud but merely upon evidence of failure
to work out their debts. The act of Congress deprives of
effect all legislative measures -of any State through which
directly or indirectly the prohibited thing, to wit, compulsory service to secure the payment of a debt may be
established or maintained; and we conclude that § 4730,
as amended, of the Code of Alabama, in so far as it makes
the refusal or failure to perform the act or service, withcut
refunding the money -or paying for the property received,
primafacie evidence of the commission of the crime which
the section defines, is in conflict with the Thirteenth
Amendment and the legislatiofn authorized by that Amendment, and is therefore invalid.
In this view it is unnecessary to consider the contentions which have been made under the Fourteenth Amendment. As the case was given to the jury under instructions which authorized a verdict in accordance with the
statutory presumption, and the opposing instructions requested by the accused were refused, the judgment must
be reversed.
Reversed and cause remanded for furiher proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE LURTON, dissenting.
WE all agree that this case is to be considered and decided in the same way as if it arose in Idaho or New York.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HOLMES

and LURTON, JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

Neither public document nor evidence discloses a law
which by its administration is made something different
from what it appears on its face, and therefore the fact
that in Alabarha it mainly concerns the blacks does not
matter. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, does not
apply. I shall begin then by assuming for the moment
what I think-is not true and shall try to show not to be
true, that this statute punishes the mere refusal to labor
according to contract as a crime, and shall inquire whether
there would be anything contrary to the Thirteenth
Amendment or the statute if it did, supposing it to have
been enacted in the State of New York. I cannot believe
it. ,The Thirteenth Amendment does not outlaw contracts for labor. That would be at least as great a misfortune for the laborer as for the man that employed him.
For it certainly would affect the terms of the bargain unfavorably for the laboring man if it were understood that
the employer could do nothing in case the laborer saw
fit to-break his word. But any legal liability for breach
of a contract is a disagreeable consequence which tends to
rike the contractor do as he said he would. Liability to
an action for damages has that tendency as well as a fine.
If the mere imposition of such consequences as tend to
make a man keep to his promise is the creation of peonage
when the contract happens to be for labor, I do not see why
the allowance of a civil action is not, as well :s an indictment ending in fine. Peonage is service to a private
master at which a man is kept by bodily compulsion
against his will. But the creation of the brdinary legal
motives for right conduct does not produce it.

Breach

of a legal contract without excuse is wrong conduct, even
if the contract is for labor, and if a State adds to civil
liability a criminal liability to fine, it simply intensifies

the legal motive for doing right, it does not make the
laborer a slave.
But if a fine may be imposed, imprisonment may be

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

HoLMEs and

LURTON,

247

JJ., dissenting.

imposed in case of a failure to pay it. .Nor does it matter
if labor is added to the imprisonment. Imprisonment
with hard labor is not stricken from the statute books.
On the contrary, involuntary servitude as a punishment
for crime is excepted from the prohibition of the Thirteenth Amendment in so many words. Also the power
of the States to make breach of contract a crime is not
done away with by the abolition of slavery. But if breach
of contract may be made a crime at all, it may be made
a crime with all the consequences usually attached to
crime. There is produced a sort of illusion if a contract
to labor ends in compulsory labor in a prison. But compulsory work for no private master in a jail is not peonage.
If work in a jail is not condemned in itself, without regard to what the conduct is it punishes, it may be made
a consequence of any conduct that the State has power
to punish at all. I do not blink the fact that the liability
to imprisonment may work as a motive when a fine without it would not, and that it may induce the laborer to
keep on when he would like to leave. But it does not
strike me as an objection to a law that it 'is effective. - If
the contract is one that ought not to be made, prohibit
it. But if it is a perfectly fair and proper contract, I
can see no reason why the State should not throw its
weight on the side of performance. There is no relation
between its doing so in the manner supposed and allowing
a private master to use private force upon a laborer who
wishes to leave.
But all that I have said so far goes beyond the needs
of the case as I understand it. I think it a mistake to
say that this statute attaches its punishment to the mere
breach of a contract to labor. It does nor purport to do
so; what it purports to punish is fraudulently obtaining
money by a false pretense of an intent to keep the written
contract in consideration of which the money is advanced.
(It is not necessary to cite cases to show that such an in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HOLMES

and

LURTON,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

tent may be the subject of a material false representation.)
But the import of the statute is supposed to be changed
*by the provision that a refusal to perform, coupled with
a failure to return: the money advanced, shall- be prima
facie evidence of fraudulent intent. I agree that if the
statute created a conclusive presumption it might be.
held to make a disguised change in the substantive law.
Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138, 150. But it only
makes the conduct prima facie evidence, a very different
matter. Is it not evidence that a man had a fraudulent
intent if he receives an advance upon a contract over
night and leaves in the morning? I should have thought
that it very plainly Was. Of course the statute is in general terms and applies to a departure at any time without excuse or repayment, but that does no harm except
on a tacit assumption that this law is not administered
as it would be in New York, and that jurics will act with
prejudice against the laboring man. For prima facie
evidence is only evidence, and as such may be held by
the jury insufficient to make out guilt. 161 Alabama, 78.
This was decided by the Supreme Court of Alabama in
this ,case, and we should be bound by their construction
of the statute, even ifwe thought it wrong. But I venture
to add that I think it entirely right. State v. Intoxicating
Liquors, 80 Maine, 57. This being' so, I take it that a
fair jury would acquit, if the only evidence were a departure after eleven months' work, and if it received no
color from some special well-known course of events.
But the matter well may be left to a jury, because their
experience as men of the world may teach them that in
certain conditions it is so common for laborers to remain
during a part of the season, receiving advances, and then
to depart at the period of need in the hope of greater
wages at a neighboring plantation, that when a laborer
follows that course there is a fair inference of fact that
he intended it from the beginning. The Alabama stat-

BAILEY v. ALABAMA.
219 U. S.

HOLMES and LURTON, JJ., dissenting.

ute, as construed by the state court and as we must take
it, merely says, as a court might say, that the prosecution
may go to the jury. This means and means only that
the court cannot say, from its knowledge of the ordinary
course of events, that the jury could not be justified by
its knowledge in drawing the inference from the facts
proved. In my opinion the statute embodies little if anything more than what I should have told the jury was
the law without it. The right of the State to regulate
laws of evidence is admitted, and the statute does not go
much beyond the common law. Commonwealth v. Rubin,
165 Massachusetts, 453.
I do not see how the result that I have reached thus
far is affected by the rule laid down by the court, but not
contained in the statute, that the prisoner cannot testify
to his uncommunicated intentions, and therefore, it is
assumed, would not be permitted to offer-a naked denial
of an intent to defraud. If there is an excuse for breaking
the contract it will be found in external circumstances,
and can he proved. So the sum of the wrong supposed
to be inflicted is that the intent to go off without repaying
may be put further back than it would be otherwise.
But if there is a wrong it lies in leaving the evidence to
the jury, a wrong that is not affected by the letting in or
keeping out an item of evidence on the other side. I
have stated why I think it was not a wrong.
To sum up, I think that obtaining money by fraud may
be made a crime as well as murder or theft; that a false
representation, expressed or implied, at the time of making a contract of labor that one intends to perform it and
thereby obtaining an advance, may be declared a case of
fraudulently obtaining money as well as any other; that
if made a crime it may be punished jike any Other crime,
and that an unjustified departure from the promised service without repayment may be declared a sufficient case
to go to the jury for their judgment; all without in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

219 U. S.

way infringing the Thirteenth Amendment or the statutes
of the United States.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON concurs in this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERLIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 77.

Argued December 16, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.

An action lies by the United States to recover the amount of a stamp
tax upon execution of a conveyance, payable under the War Revenue
Act of June 13, 1898, c. 448, 30 Stat. 448, 470, and the penalties
provided in such act for non-compliance therewith are not exclusive
of collection of the amount by suit.
'A tax may or may not be a debt under a particular statute according
to the sense in which the word is found to be used. But whether
the Government may recover a personal judgment for a tax depends
upon the existence of the duty to pay for the enforcement Of which
another remedy has not been made exclusive.
Whether an action for debt is maintainable depends not upon who is
plaintiff, or how the obligation was incurred, but the action lies
wherever there is due a sum either certain or readily reduced to certainty. Stockwell v. United States, 13 Wall. 542.
Nothing in the nature of a stamp tax negatives per se, either the personal obligation to purchase and affix the stamps or the collection
of the amount by action; nor do provisions for penalties necessarily
exclude personal liability.
Penalties may be provided to induce payment of the tax, and not as a
substitute for such payment, and it will not be presumed that Congress intends by penalizing delinquency to deprive the Government
of suitable means of enforcing the collection of revenue.

case comes here on certiorari. The action was
brought by the United States, in t~le District Court of
THIS

