BRODNAX v. MISSOURI.
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

and the promotion of the general welfare. If such state
regulations are not unreasonable, that is, not simply arbitrary nor beyond the necessities of. the case, they are
not forbidden by the Constitution of the United States.
We so adjudge on-both principle and kuthority.
The judgment of the. Supreme Court of Missouri is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA concurring.
THE CHIEF JUSTMcE and myself concur in the judgment
solely on the ground that it is competent for the State of
Missouri to provide that, in the absence of an express

contract to which the owner of the articles sold on .the

Board is a party, the rule of the Kansas City Board of
Tade shall not prevail.

BRODNAX v. STATE OF MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 598. Argued December 14, 1910.-Decided January 9, 1911.
In this case, as the statute snows on its face that the subject regulated
needed to be regulated for the protection of the public against fraudulent practices to its injury, this court is not prepared to declare
that the State has acted beyond its power or the necessities of the
case.
While it is the duty of the Federal courts to protect Federal rights
from infringement, they should hot strike down a police regulation
of a State that does not'clearly violate the Federal Constitution;
they cannot overthrow police legislation because they' consider it
unwise or inexpedient. House v. Mayes, ante, p. 270.
Although. the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment secures liberty of contract, it does not confer liberty to disregard lawful police regulations of the State established by the State for all
within its jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

A classification of persons keeping places where stocks, bonds and such
commodities as grain, petroleum and cotton are dealt in for future
and not actual delivery, is a reasonable one and not a denial of equal
protection of the laws.
The fact that commodities in course of transportation in interstate
commerce are dealt in at certain places does not render a state police statute regulating sales, and imposing stamp tax on records of
transactions thereat, which is otherwise valid, an unconstitutional
regulation of interstate commerce. Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 502.
It is not a violation of the due process, or equal protection, clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, or an unconstitutional regulation of
interstate commerce, for a State to prohibit the keeping of a place
where purchases or sales are made of stocks, bonds, petroleum,
grain, cotton, etc., on margins or otherwise, not paid for or delivered at the time, without record of sale and stamp tax, by a Statute applicable to all persons keeping such places, and so held as to
the Missouri statute to that effect of March 8, 1907.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a statute of Missouri prohibiting the keeping of places for dealing in stocks, bonds and commodities for future delivery
except under certain conditions, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Hagerman, with whom 1W r. Kimbrough Stone
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The act is not limited to all sales of any particular
commodity, but are those of particular things, i. e., corporate bonds. and stocks, petroleum, cotton, grain and
provisions
No provision is made for the collection of the tax from
any person or property, For its enforcement, reliance
must be placed solely upon the coercion flowing from the
criminality involved in a violation of its terms.
As against the keeper, as each plaintiff in error was,
this act must, if at all, be sustained as a police regulation,
and as such it is void because interfering with the liberty
of contract and because it is discriminatory.
The Fourteenth Amendment secures to everyone the
right to carry on a business and to make all contracts

BRODNAX v. MISSOURI.
219 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

needful for the purpose. Allgeyer v. Loui8iana, 165 U. S.
578,.589; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 390; Lochner v.
New York, 198 U. S. 45, 53; Adair v. United Stae8, 208
U. S. 161, 172. This right to contract is of no Value if
there be no power to extend credit, or if one to buy or
sell must have immediate delivery.
The police power of the -State cannot be exercised unreasonably nor in an arbitrary manner, and whether it
has been or'not is a question solely for the courts. Cases
supra.
The act considered as a police regulation is diseriminatory. Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165.U. S. 150;
Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S. 79; Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; State v. Loomis, 115 Missouri,
307, 314; State v. Julow, 192 Missouri, 163, 177; State v.
Walsh, 136 Missouri, 400, 405; State v. Mikisek, 225
Missouri, 561, 577.
It singles out certain articles, the sale of which at certain places is lawful and not harmful, but absolutely necessary, and attempts to classify those who there sell on
credit or for future delivery, as distinguished from those
who sell the same articles for the same prices for cash,
and make present delivery. No case has ever gone to
the extent of sustaining such classification for any purpose
whatever. Such classification is arbitrary, artificial and
fanciful, and. does not rest upon a distinction differentiating the particular persons to be affected. Gray on,Limitation of Taxing Power, § 1435; Southern Ry. Co. v.
Greene, 216 U. S. 406, 417; "People v. Mensching, 187
N: Y. 8; Barbier v. Connolly, 113.U. S. 27; Gulf, C. & S.
F. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.150; Yick" Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S.356; Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20,
37; Tiernan v. Rinker, 102 U. S. 123; Webber v. Virginia,
103 U. S.344; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U.S. 446; State
v. Gorbroski, 111 Iowa, 496; O'Keefe v. Summerville, 190
Massachusetts, 110.

288'

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

219 U. S.

See also where laws have been held to be discriminatory when they impose a tax only upon foreign unnaturalized laborers, JuniataLimestone Co. v. Fagley, 187 Pa. St.
193; Fraser v. Conway, 6 Pa. Dist. R. 555; on peddlers,
except those."persons who have served in the Union
army or navy," State v. Garbroski, 111 Iowa, 496; on taxable inhabitants who had not paid a previous assessment,
S~ate v. Township, 36 N. J. L. 66; on peddlers and transient merchants but not upon permanent merchants doing
the same kind of business, State ex rel. v. Parr,109 Minnesota, 147; State v. Wagener, 69 Minnesota, 206; upon peddlers in the State other than those of a particular county,
Commonwealth v. Snyder, 182 Pa. St. 630;'requiring a license from each individual plumber, but providing that
the license of one member of a firm or manager of a corporation should be sufficient, State v. Benzenburg, 101
Wisconsin, 172; State v. Gardner, 58 Ohio St. 599; providing that a license fee for a place upon one street of a
city shall be higher than when it is upon another,. Harrodsburg v. Renfro (Ky.), 58 S. W. Rep. 695. And see Lassen
Co. v. Cone, 72 California, 387.
The act is unconstitutional as regulating interstate
commerce.
This court will look through forms to the substance of
things and if in substance there is any interference, state
legislation so interfering must fall, no matter how general its form and even though interstate transactions are
not specifically mentioned. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Coleman, 216 U. S. 1; Galveston, H. & T. R. Co. v. Texas, 210
U. S. 217; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; International Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91.
If the act be treated as an occupation or license tax,
or one for facilities used for such sale, it is still in substance a tribute laid upon property engaged in interstate
commerce. Bivin v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Robbins v.
Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Lyng v.

BRODNAX v. MISSOURI.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129;
Brennan v. Titueville, 153 U. S. 289; Stockard v. Morgan,
185 U. S. 27; Atlantic & P: Tel. Co. v. Philadelphia, 190
U. S. 160, 163; Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S.60, 65.
Mr..Elliott W. Major, Attorney General of the State
of Missouri, with whom Mr. John M. Atkinson was on
the brief, for defendant in error.
Mu. JUSTICE HAALAN delivered the opinion of the
court.
This isan indictment in the Criminal Court of Jackson County, Missouri, against the defendants in error
Brodnax and Essex. It is based on a statute of Missouri,
approved March 8th, 1907, (Mo. Sess. Acts, 1907, pp. 392393; Mo. Rev. Stat., 1909, §§ 10228, 10229 and 10230),
which declares it to be "unlawful for any corporation,
association, copartnership or person to keep, or cause to
be kept, in this State, any office, store or other place
wherein is permitted the buying or selling the shares of
stocks or bonds of any corporation., or petroleum, cotton,
grain, provisions or other commodities, either on margins
or otherwise, where the same is not at the time actually
paid for and 'delivered, without at the time of the sale
the seller shall cause to be made a complete record of the
thing sold, the purchaser and the time of delivery in a
book kept for that purpose; and at the time the seller
shall deliver to the purchaser a written or printed memorandum of said sale, on which he shall place, or cause
to be placed, a stamp of the value of twenty-five cents,
which the seller shall purchase of the State Auditor, and
have on hand before making such sale;,and it shall be
the duty of the State Auditor, upon the passage of this
act, to have printed or engraved stamps for this purpose,
of such design as he may select; and on application and
VOL. ccxIx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

payment for said stamps, to immediately furnish the same
to the applicants applying therefor: Provided, further,
and it shall be unlawful for the purchaser to receive the
memoranda aforesaid until it bears the stamp above pro-,
vided for. § 2. The fund arising from the sale of the
stamps provided for in section one of this act shall, in
the hands of the State Auditor, constitute a road fund;
and it shall be the duty of the said Auditor to distribute
said fund, annually, to the counties in the State and the
city of St. Louis, in the same proportion and in like manner as-the State school funds are now distributed by him.
§ 3. Any person, whether acting individually or. as a
member,, or as an officer, agent or employ6 of any corporation, association or copartnership, who shall be guilty
of violating aily of the provisions of section one, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than
fifty, nor more than one thousahid dollars, and in addition thereto may be imprisoned in the county or city jail
for a period of not less than thirty days, nor to exceed
one year."
The indictment charges that the defendants, being
officers and agents of the Board of Trade of Kansas City,
Missouri, did, at a time specified, willfully and unlawfully keep and cause to be kept a place commonly called
the trading floor of the Board of Trade of Kansas City,
wherein was permitted the buying and selling of grain,
provisions and other commodities, on margins and otherwise, and where at the time of such sales, so permitted
the grain, provisions and other commodities so sold, were
not actually paid for and delivered, and at such time and
place the sellers, or any of them, of the grain, provisions
and other commodities, so sold on margins and otherwise,
did not then and there cause to be made a complete record
of the commodities sold and the time of delivery in a hook
kept for that purpose, and at said time and place neither
the sellers, nor any of them, delivered to the purchasers

BRODNAX v. MISSOURI.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a written or printed memoranda of said sales, on which
they, the sellers, or any of them, had placed or caused to
be placed a stamp of the value of twenty-five cents, which
they had purchased of the State Auditor and had on hand
before making such sales; contrary to the statutes, etc.
The defendants demurred to the indictment on the
ground, among others, that the statute was in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment, as well as of the commerce
provision of the Constitution of the United States. The
demurrer was overruled and the defendants excepted.
A jury was waived, and the case was tried by the
court.
Before the introduction of evidence the defendants objected to any proof, resting their objection upon these
grounds: 1. That the statute-was discriminatory, abridged
the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United
States, deprived defendants of their property without due
process of law, and denied to them the equal protection
of the law, contrary to the provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the :Constitution of the United States.
2, That it was an unwarranted attempt to regulate interstate commerce.
The objection was also made that the statute was in
violation of certain alleged provisions of the Constitution
of Missouri. But with the latter ground we have, for obvious reasons, no concern on this writ of error from the
state court. The above objections to the evidence were
overruled, the defendants duly excepting.
For the purpose of the case, and subject to such objections as might be thereafter stated, facts were admitted
which brought the case within the provisions of the statute and the averments of the indictment.
The defendant objected to tiese facts as incompetent
and inconsistent with the Constitutions both of the United
States and of Missouri. The objections were overruled
and the defendant excepted. To the above statement

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

of admitted facts this was added.: "A substantial part of
the sales aforesaid being of grain, provisions and other
commodities which were at the time of sale in course of
transportation as articles of interstate commerce." The
State objected to the facts just stated as incompetent and
irrelevant. The objection was overruled, and the State
excepted.
The result of the trial was a judgment that the defendants were guilty, and they were fined each $50. Motions
for a new trial and for the arrest of judgment having been
severally denied, the case was taken by appeal to the
Supreme Court of Missouri, where the judgment of the
trial court was affirmed.
The assignments of 'error present the same questions
of constitutional law that were raised by the defendants'
demurrer and objections to evidence.
The vords of the statute show that the keeping of a
place where corporate stocks and bonds, as well as grains,
provisions and other commodities were bought and sold,
but not paid, for at the time, without a complete record
of the transaction (including a minute of the time of delivery) in a book kept for that purpose, and without the
purchaser receiving a printed or', written memorandum
of the sale, needed to be regulated, so as to protect the
public against unfair or fraudulent practices that might
result to the injury or inconvenience of the general public. We are not prepared to hold that the State in this
%matterhas exceeded the bounds of reason, or has legislated beyond the necessities of the casek or has arbitrarily
interfered with the course of ordinary business among its
people. While it is the duty of the Federal courts, if their
jurisdiction be lawfully invoked, to see to it that the constitutional rights of the citizen are not infringed by the
State, or by its authorized agents, they should not strike
down an enactment or regulation adopted by the State
under its police power, unless it be clear that the declara-

BRODNAX v. MISSOURI.
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of public policy contained in the statute is plainly
in violation of the Federal Constitution. Much may be
done by a State under its police power which many may
regard as an unwise exertion of governmental authority.
But the Federal courts have no power to overthrow such
local legislation, simply because' they do not approve it
or because they deem it unwise or inexpedient. What we
have said in House v. Mayes, ante, p. 270, as to the nature
and extent of the police power of the State, is applicable
to this case, and need not be here repeated.
. Suffice it, on this point to adjudge, as we now
do, that
the Federal Constitution does not prevent the enforcement by the State of the provision making it unlawful to
keep or cause to be kept in the State an office, store, or
place, where things are omitted to be done which the
statute requires to be done at the time bonds and stocks
and commodities are sold and bought in such place. The
defendants were indicted and found guilty of keeping
and causing to be kept such a place as the statute forbade to be kept or caused to be kept. We do not
perceive that any right secured by the Fourteenth Amendment is or has been thereby violated. We could not adjudge otherwise without declaring that the statute was
so unreasonable and so far beyond the necessities of the
case as to be deemed a purely arbitrary interference with
lawful business transactions. We are unwilling to so adjudge. Much was said at bar about the "'liberty of contract." In a large sense every person has that liberty.
It is secured by the provision in the Federal Constitution,
forbidding a State to deprive any person of liberty or
property without due process of law. But the Federal
Constitution does not confer' a liberty to disregard regulations as to the conduct of business which the State
lawfully establishes for all within its jurisdiction.
It is contended that the statute is in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, in that the classification of sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

jeets within the limits of the authorities levying the
stamp tax is not a. true classification. Construing the
statute the state court said: "In our opinion, this law
clearly embraces every class, whether it be corporation,
association, either voluntary or otherwise, partnership or
person which furnishes a place for dealing in sales of stocks,
bonds, etc., upon margins or otherwise, where the same is
not at the time actually paid for and delivered, and embraces all classes who may deal in such places so furnished. It is clear that the character of business which is
treated of by the statute is fully recognized as a separate
and distinct business from all other classes. That the
statute embraces every class, whether it be corporation,
association, partnership or person who may furnish a
place or who may deal in transactions in such places,
there can be, in our opinion, no sort of doubt; therefore
we conclude that so far as the class of persons to whom
this law is made applicable, whether natural or artificial,
this statute embraces the entire class and is not subject
to the objection that it singles out a part of a legal class
upon which the license or stamp tax is imposed and exempts others of the same class. Manifestly the selection
of the business calling and the class pursuing such calling
were proper and appropriately selected by the legislature of this State in dealing with that subject." Of course,
we take the statute as a local law to mean what the court
says it means. Nor is there any force in the objection
that the classification, as shown by the statute, is arbitrary and unreasonable. The same methods and means
are applied equally to all of the same class. Kentucky
R. R. Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 337; Magoun v. Illinois
Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S..283; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27, 32.
Again, it is said that the statute, by its necessary operation, is a regulation of interstate commerce. 'Not so.
It might suffice, in the present case, to say, that under

BRODNAX v. MISSOURI.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the CouA.

the facts admitted there is no reason whatever to invoke
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. All
that the defendant offered to show in this connection was
that a substantial part of the sales referred to were of
grain, provisions and other commodities which were at
the time of sale in course of transportation as articles of
interstate commerce. With this state of facts and no
more before it the Supreme Court of the State said: "The
requirements of the statute now under consideration have
no bearing or influence whatever upon property sold. It
is addressed to those furnishing the places as well as those
who deal in the transaction in such places. In other
words, in sales of property in the manner and at the
places pointed out by the statute it is required, where
a sale is made in the manner contemplated by that statute that the seller shall make 9 memorandum of such
sale and place upon such memorandum a twenty-five
cent stamp. We repeat that transactions of this character have no influence whatever upon commerce between
different States, and, as was in substance said by the
Supreme Court of the United States [Hatch v. Rearaon,
204 U. S.152], sales of this character do not contemplate
or have anything-to do with the transportation of property from one State to another, as in the, drummer cases,
and the mere fat that the parties to such sale, or either
one of them, happen to be a resident of another State,
in no way, legally or practically, affects the transaction
and falls far short of subjecting such transaction to condemnation for the reason that it interferes with interstate commerce. Our conclusion upon this proposition
is that this statute in no way interferes with interstate
commerce, and should not be held invalid for that reason." We add that the indictment deals with the- place
where sales, such as the statute describes, are made. The
offense is complete under the statute, by the keeping of
such a place, and that occurs bWfore any question of in-

OCTOB1El TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 V. S.

terstate commerce could arise, so far as this record discloses.
We do not perceive that any error of law was committed
by the state court, and its judgment is
Affirmd.

REAVES v. AINSWORTH, MAJOR GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF TIE .DISTRICT, OF
cOLUMBIA.
No. 14.

Argued December 2, 5, 1910.-Decided January 9, 1911.

Under the act of October 1, 1890, c. 1241, 26 Stat. 562, regulating examinations and promotions in the army, the board of examiners
may mAke a provisional order giving the officer a reasonable period
for reexamination and such an order is .not final but provisional,
and does not deprive the board of jurisdiction to subsequently determine the fitness of officer for duty.
What Isdue process of law depends upon circumstances. To those in
the military or naval service of the United States military law is due
process; and the decision of a military tribunal acting within scope
of its lawful powers cannot be reviewed or set aside by the courts.
The purpose of the act of October 1, 1890, is to secure efficiency and
the only relief from error or injustice in the order of the board is by
review of the President. The courts have no power of review.
Courts are not the only instrumentalities of government; they cannot
command or regulate the army, and the welfare and safety of the
country, through the efficiency of officers of the army, is greater
than the value of his commission, or the right of promotion of any
officer of the army.
There is a difference between the regular army of the Nation and the
militia of a State when not in service ,of the Nation, and more rigid
rules and a higher state of discipline are required in the former than
in the latter.
28 App. D. C. 157, affirmed.

THE facts, which inyolve the validity of an order hon-

