OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

346_

Syllabus.

219 U. S.

be intended to secure the right of the trustees and, general
creditors in cases where the security may be wortn more
than the debt. The view that we adopt is well presented
in the late Judge Lowell's work on. Bankruptcy, ยง 419;
seems to have been entertained in Coder v. Arts, 152 Fed.
Rep. 943, 950, (affirmed without touching this point, 213
U. S. 223), and is somewhat sustained by analogy in the
case of insolvent banks. Merrill v. National Bank 'of
Jacksonville, 173 U. S. 131, 140. White v. Knox, 11 U. S.
784, 787.
Interest and dividends accrued upon some of tho securities after the date of the petition. The English cases
allow these to be applied to the after accruing interst
upon the debt. Ex parte Ramsbdttom, 2 Mont. & Ayrton,
79. Ex parte Penfold, 4 De G. & Sm. 282. Quartermaine's
Case [1892], 1 Ch. 639. There is no more reason for allowing the bankrupt estate to profit by the delay beyond
the day of settlement than there is for letting the creditors
do so. Therefore to apply these subsequent dividends,
&c., to subsequent interest seems just./3
Decrees reversed.

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
BROWN AND GRITTS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM T9E" COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 330, 331.

Argued November 30 and December lj,
January 23, 1911.

1910.-Decided

The rule laid down in Heyburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409, thatzneither the
legislative nor the executive branch of the Governmnt of the
United States can assign to the judicial branch any dities other
than those that are properly judicial; to be performed ir a judicial
manner, applied; and held, that it is beyond the power of Congress

to provide for a suit of this nature to be brought in the Court of

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

Claims with an appeal to this court to test the constitutionality of
prior acts of Congress, such 'a suit not being a case or controversy
within the meaning of the Constitution.
From its earliest history this court has consistently declined to exercise any powers other than those which are strictly judicial.in their.
nature.
Under the Constitution of the United States the exercise of judicial
power is limited to cases and controversies.
case or controversy, in order that the judicial power of the United
States mty be exercised thereon, implies the existence of present or
possible adverse parties whose contentions are submitted to the
court for adjudication. Chislwlm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 431.
This court has no veto power ofn legislation enacted by Congress; and
its right to declare an act of Congress unconstitutional can only be
exercised when a proper case between opposing parties is submitted
for determination. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137.
'[he determination by the Court of Claims, and on appeal by this
court, of the constitutional validity of an act of Congress in a suit
brought by authority of a subsequent act of Congress clothing such
courts with jurisdiction for the avowed purpose of settling such
question with provision for payment of expenses of the suit in certain contingencies out of funds in the Treasury of the United States,
is not within the appellate jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution upon this court; such a suit is nota case or controversy to which
the judicial power extends, nor would such .a judgment conclude
private parties in actual litigation.
That part of the act of March 1, 1907, c. 2285, 34 Stat. 1015, 1028,
which requires of this court action in its nature not judicial within
the meaning of the Constitution, exceeds the limitation of legislative
authority and is unconstitutional, and the suits brought thereunder
are dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
This court cannot be required to decide cases over which it has not
jurisdiction because other cases are pending involving the same
point of law; to do so would require it to give opinions in the nature
of advice concerning legislative action.
An act of Congress, conferring jurisdiction on the Court of Claims and
on this court on appeal, testing the constitutionality of prior acts
of Congress will not be sustained as to the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims alone if it cannot be also sustained as to this court.
44 Court of Claims, 137, reversed with directions to dismiss the suit.

.THE facts, which involve the constitutionality and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

struction of certain acts of Congress relating to the distribution and allotment of lands and funds of the Cherokee
indians, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John J. Hemphill, Mr. William H. Robeson and
Mr. Daniel B. Henderson, with whom Mr. Frank J. Boudinot was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr.'Henry E. Colton, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. W. W. Hastings for the Cherokee Nation.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe and Mr. Evans Browne submitted a
brief, by leave of the court, as amici curi., on behalf of..
certain full blood Choctaw and Chickasaw allottees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases arise under an act of Congress undertaking
to confer jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims, and upon
this court on appeal, to determine the validity of certain
acts of Congress hereinafter referred to.
Case No. 330 was brought by David Muskrat and J.
Henry Dick in their own behalf and in behalf of others in a
like situation to determine the constitutional validity of
the act of Congress of April 26,. 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat.
137, as amended by the act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504, 34
Stat. 325 et seq., and to have the same declared invalid in
so far as the same undertook to increase the number of
persons entitled to share in the final distribution of lands
and funds of the Cherokees beyond- those enrolled on
September 1, 1902, in accordance with the act of Congress
passed July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32 Stat. 716-720-721. The

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
219 U. S.,

Opinion of the Court.

acts subsequent to that of July 1, 1902, have the effect to
increase the number of persons entitled t9 participate in
the division of the Cherokee lands and funds, by permitting the enrollment of children who were minors living on
March 4, 1906, whose parents had theretofore been enrolled
as members of the Cherokee tribe or had applications pending for that purpose.
Case No. 331 was brought by Brown and Gritts on their
own behalf and on behalf of other Cherokee citizens having
a like interest in the property allotted under the act of
July 1, 1902, c. 1368, 32 Stat. 710. Under this act, Brown
and Gritts received allotments. The subsequent act of
March 11, 1904, c. 505, 33 Stat. 65, empowered the Secretary of the Interior to grant rights of way for pipe lines
over lands allotted to Indians under certain regulations.
Another act, that of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137,
purported to extend to a period of twenty-five years the
time within which full-blooded Indians of the Cherokee,
Choctaw, Chickasaw, Creek and Seminole tribes were forbidden to alienate, sell, dispose of or encumber certain of
their lands.
The object of the petition of Brown and Gritts was to
have the subsequent legislation of 1904 and 1906 declared
to be unconstitutional and void, and to have the lands allotted to them under the original act of July 1, 1902, adjudged to be theirs free from restraints upon the rights to
sell and convey the same. From this statement it is apparent that the purpose of the proceedings instituted in
the Court of Claims and now appealed to this court is to
restrain the enforcement of such legislation subsequent to
the act of July 1, 1902, upon the ground that the same is
unconstitutional and void. The Court of Claims sustained
the validity of the acts and dismissed the petitions. 44
C. Cls. 137, 283.
These proceedings were begun under the supposed authority of an act of Congress passed March 1, 1907 (a part

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

of the Indian appropriation bill), c. 2285, 34 Stat. 1015,
1028. As that legislation is important in this connection
so much of the act as authorized the beginning of these
suits is here inserted in full:
"That William Brown and Levi B. Gritts, on their own
behalf and on behalf of all other Cherokee citizens, having
like interests in the property allotted under the act of
July first, nineteen hundred and two, entitled 'An act to
provide for the allotment of lands of the Cherokee Nation,
for the disposition of townsites therein, and for other purposes,' and David Muskrat and J. Henry Dick, on their
own behalf, and on behalf of all Cherokee citizens enrolled
as such for allotment as of September first, nineteen hundred and two, be, and they are hereby, authorized and empowered to institute their suits in.the Court of Claims to
determine the validity of any acts of Congress passed
since the said act of July first, nineteen hundred and two,
in so far as said acts, or any of them, attempt to increase
or extend the restrictions upon alienation, encumbrance,
or the right to lease the allotments of lands of Cherokee
citizens, or to increase the number of persons entitled to
share in the final distribution of lands and funds of the
Cherokees beyond those enrolled for allotment as of September first, nineteen hundred and two, and provided for
in the said act of July first, nineteen hundred and two.
"And jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon the Court of
Claims, with the right of appeal, by either party, to the
Supreme Court of the United States, to hear, determine,
and adjudicate each of said suits.
"The suits brought hereunder shall be brought on or
before September first, nineteen hundred and seven,
against the United States as a party defendant, and, for
the speedy disposition of the questions involved, preference shall be given to the same by said courts, and by the
Attorney General, who is hereby charged with the defense
of said suits.

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

."Upon the rendition of final judgment by the Court of
Claims or the Supreme Court of the United States denying the validity of any portion of the said acts authorized
to be brought into question, in either or both of said cases,
the Court of Claims shall determine the amount to be paid
the attorneys employed by the above-named parties in
the prosecution thereof for services and expenses, and shall
render judgment therefor, which shall be paid out of the
funds in the United States Treasury.belonging to the beneficiaries under the said act of July first, nineteen hundred
and two."
This act is the authority for .the maintenance of these
two suits.
The first question in these cases, as in others, involves
the jurisdiction of this court to entertain the proceeding,
and that depends upon whether the jurisdiction conferred
is within the power of Congress, having in view the limitations of the judicial power, as established by the Constitution of the United States.
Section 1 of Article III of the Constitution provides:
"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested
in one Supreme Court and in such inferior courts as the
Congress may from time to time ordain and establish."
Section 2 of the same Article provides:
'The judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and
equity, 1rising under this Constitution, the laws of the
United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made,
under their authority;-to all cases affecting ambassadors,
other public ministers, and eonsuls;-to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;-to controversies to
which the United States shall be a party; to controversies
between two Or more States ;-between a State and citizens
of another State ;-between citizens of different States;between citizens of the same State claiming lands under
grants of different States, and between a State, or the
;citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens or subjects."

352.

3OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

It will serve to elucidate the nature and extent of the
judicial power thus conferred by the Constitution to note
certain instances in which this court has had occasion to
examine and define the same. As early as 1792, an act of,
Congress, March 23, 1792, c. 11, 1 Stat. 243, was brought
to the attention of this court, which undertook to provide
for the settlement of claims of widows and orphans barred
by the limitations theretofore established regulating claims
to invalid pensions. The act was not construed by this
court, but came under consideration before the then Chief
Justice and another Justice of this court and the District
Judge, and their conclusions are given in the margin of
the report of Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409. The act under-,
took to devolve upon the Circuit Court of the United
States the duty of exarhiining proofs, of determining what
amount of the monthly pay would be equivalent to the
disability ascertained, and to certify the same to the Secretary of War, who was to place the names of the applicants
on the pension list of the United States in'conformity
thereto, unless he had cause to suspect imposition or mistake, in which event he might withhold the name of the applicant and report the same to Congress.
In the note to the report of the case in 2 Dall. it appeared
that Chief Justice Jay, Mr. Justice Cushing and District
Judge Duane unanimously agreed:
"That by the Constitution of the United States, the
government thereof is divided into three distinct and independent branches, and that it is the duty of each to abstain from, and to oppose, encroachments on either.
. "That neither the legislative nor the executive branches
can constitutionally assign to the judicial any duties but
such as are properly judicial, and to be performed in a
judicial manner.
"That the duties assigned to the Circuit Courts, by
this act, are not of that description, and that the act itself
does not appear to contemplate them as such; inasmuch as

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

it subjects the decisions of these courts, made pursuant to
those duties, fiist to the consideration and suspension of
the Sbcretary of War, and then to the revision of the legislature; vhereas by the Constitution, neither the Secretary of War, nor any other executive officer, nor even the.
legislature, al-e authorized to sit as a court of errors on the
judicial acts or opinions of this court."
A further history of the case-and of another brought
under the same act but unreported-will be found in
United States v. Ferreira,13 How. 40, in which the opinion
of the court was by the Chief Justice, and the note by him
on page 52 was inserted by order of the court. Concluding
that note it was said:
"In the early days of the Government, the right of Congress to give original jurisdiction to the Supreme Court,
in cases not enumerated in the Constitution, was maintained by many jurists, and seems to have been entertained
by the learned judges who decided Todd's case. But discussion and more mature examination has settled the question otherwise; and it has long been the established doctrine, and we believe now assented to by all who have examined the subject, that the original jurisdiction of this
court is confined to the cases specified in the Constitution,
and that Congress cannot enlarge it. In all other cases its
power must be appellate."
In the Ferreiracase this court determined the effect of
proceedings under an act of Congress, authorizing he
District Judge of the United States for the Northern District of Florida to receive and adjudicate claims for losses
for which this Government was responsible under the
treaty of 1819 between the United States and Spain; decisions in favor of claimants, -together with evidence given
in connection therewith, to be reported to the Secretary of
the Treasury, who, being satisfied that the same were just
and equitable and within the treaty, Was to pay the
amount thereof. It was held that an award of the DisVOL, ccxix-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

trict Judge under that act was not the judgment of a court
and did not afford a basis of appeal to this court.
In 1793, by direction of the President, Secretary of
State Jefferson addressed to the Justices of the Supreme
Court ja communication soliciting their views upon the
question whether their advice to the executive would be
available in the solution of important questions of the
construction of treaties, laws of nations and laws of the
land, which the Secretary said were often presented under
circumstances which "do not give a cognizance of them to
the tribunals of the country." The answer to the question
was postponed until the subsequent sitting of the Supreme
Court, when Chief Justice Jay and his associates answered
to President Washington that in consideration of the lines
of separation drawn by the Constitution between the
three departments of government, and being judges of a
court of last resort, afforded strong arguments .against the
propriety of extrajudicially deciding the questions alluded
to, and expressing the view that the power given by the
Constitution to the President of calling on heads of departments for opinions "seems to have been purposely, as
well as expressly, united to the executive departments."
Correspondence & Public Papers of John Jay, vol. 3, p.
486.'
The subject underwent a complete examination in the
case of Gordon v. United States, reported in an appendix to
117 U. S. 697, in which the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice
Taney, prepared by him and placed in the hands of the
clerk, is published in full. It is said to have been his last
judicial utterance, and the whole subject of the nature and
extent of the judicial power conferred by the Constitution
is treated with great learning and fullness. In that case
an act of Congress was held invalid which undertook to
confer jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims and thence
by appeal to this court, the judgment, however, not to be
paid until an appropriation had been estimated therefor

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
219 TT. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Secretary of the Treasury; and, as was said by the
Chief Justice, the result was that neither court could enforce its judgment by any process, and whether it was to
be paid or not depended on the future action of the Secretary of the Treasury and of Congress. "The Supreme
Court," says the Chief Justice, "does not owe its existence
or its powers to the legislative department of the government. It is created by the Constitution, and represents
one of the three great divisions of power in the Government of the United States, to each of which the Constitution has assigned its appropriate duties and powers, and
made each independent of the other in performing its appropriate functions. The power conferred on this court is
exclusively judicial, and it cannot be required or authorized to exercise any other."
Concluding his discussion of the subject, the Chief Justice said, after treating of the powers of the different
branches of the Government, and laying emphasis upon
the independence of the judicial power as established under
our Constitution, p. 706: "These cardinal principles of
free government had not only been long established in
England, but also in the United States from the time of
their earliest colonization, and guided the American people
in framing and adopting the present Constitution. And it
is the duty of this court to maintain it unimpaired as far
as it may have the power. And while it executes firmly
all the judicial powers entrusted to it, the court will carefully abstain from exercising any power that is not strictly
judicial in its character, and which is not clearly confided
to it by the Constitution."
At the last term of the court, in the case of Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 215
U. S.216, this court declined to take jurisdiction of a case
which undertook to extend its appellate power to the consideration of a case in Which there was no judgment in
the court below. In that case former cases were reviewed

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, who spoke for the court, and
the requirement that this court adhere strictly to the jurisdiction, original and appellate, conferred upon it by the
Constitution, was emphasized and enforced. It is therefore apparent that from its earliest history this court has
consistently declined to exercise any powers other than
those which 'are strictly judicial in their nature.
It therefore becomes necessary to inquire what is meant
by the judicial power thus conferred by the Constitution
upon this court, and with the aid of appropriate legislation
upon the inferior courts of the United States. ;"Judicial.
power," says Mr. Justice Miller in his work on the Constitution, "is the power of a court to decide and pronounce a
judgment and carry it into effect between persons and
parties who bring a case before it for decision." Miller on
the Constitution, 314.'
As we have already,seen by the express terms of the Constitution, the exercise of the judicial power is limited to
"cases" and "controversies&"
Beyond this it does not
extend, and unless it is asserted in a case or controversy
within the meaning of the Constitution, the power to exercise it is nowhere conferred.
/
What, then, does the Constitution mean in conferring
this judicial power with the right to determine "cases "
and "controversies"? A "case" was defined by Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall as early as the leading case of Marbury
v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, to be a suit instituted according to the regular course of judicial procedure. And what
more, if anything, is meant in the use of the term "f controversy'? That question was'dealt ,with by Mr. Justice
Field, at the circuit, in the case of In re Pacific Railway
Commission, 32 Fed. Rep. 241, 255.' Of these terms that
learned Justice said:
"The judicial article of the Constitution mentions cases
and controversies. The term 'controversies,' if distinguishable at all from 'cases,' is so in that it is less compre-

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

hensive than the latter, and includes only suits of a civil
nature. Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 431, 432; 1 Tuck. BI.
Comm. App. 420, 421. By cases and controversies are
intended the claims of litigants brought before the courts ,
for determination by such regular proceedings as are established by law or custom for the protection or enforcement of rights, or the pre- ention, redress, or punishment
of wrongs., Whenever the claim of a party under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States takes such
a form that the judicial power is capable of acting upon it,
then it has become a case. The term implies the existence
of present or possible adverse parties whose contentions
are submitted to the court for adjudication."
. The power being thus limited to require an application
of the judicial power to cases and controversies, is the
act which undertook to authorize the present suits to determine the constitutional validity of certain legislation
within the constitutional authority of the court? This
inquiry in the case before us includes the broader question,
When may this court, in the exercise of the judicial power,
pass upon the constitutional validity of an act of Congress?
That question has been settled from the early history of
the court, the leading case on the subject being Marbury
v. Madison, supra,
In that case Chief Justice Marshall, who spoke for the
court, was careful to point out that the right to declare an
act of Congress unconstitutional could only be exercised
when a proper case between opposing parties was submitted for judicial determination; that there was no
general veto power in the court upon the legislation of
Congress; and that the authority to declare an act unconstitutional sprung from the requirement that the court, in
administering the law'and pronouncing judgment between
the parties to a case,, and choosing between the requirements of the fundamental law established by the people
and embodied in the Constitution and an act of the agents

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

of the people, acting under authority of the Constitution,
should enforce the Constitution as the supreme law of
the land. The Chief Justice demonstrated, in a manner
which has been regarded as settling the question, that with
the choice thus given between a constitutional requirement
and a conflicting statutory enactment, the plain duty of
the court was to follow and enforce the Constitution as
the supreme law established by the people. And the court
recognized, in Marbury v. Madison and subsequent cases,
that the exercise of this great power could only be invoked
in cases which came regularly before the courts for determination, for, said the Chief Justice, in Osborn v. Bank of
United States, 9 Wheat. 819, speaking of the third Article
of the Constitution conferring judicial power:
"This clause enables the judicial department to receive
jurisdiction to the full extent of the Constitution, laws,
and treaties of the United States, when any question respecting tff~ini shall assume such a form that the judicial
power is capable of acting on it. That power is capable of
acting only when the subject is submitted to it by a party
who asserts his rights in the form prescribed by law. It
then becomes a case, and the Constitution declares that
the judicial power shall extend to all cases, arising under
the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States."
Again, in the case of Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264,
Chief Justice Marshall, amplifying and reasserting the doctrine of Marbury v. Madison, recognized the limitations
upon the right of this court to declare an act of Congress
unconstitutional, and granting that there might be instances of its violation which could not be brought within
the jurisdiction of the courts, and referring to a grant by
a State of a patent of nobility as a case of that class, and
conceding that the court would have no power to annul
such a grant, said, p. 405:
"This may be very true; but by no means justifies the
inference drawn from it. The article does not extend the

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

judicial power to every violation of the Constitution which
may possibly take place, but to 'a case in law or equity'
in which a right under such law is asserted in a court of
justice. If the question cannot be brought into a court,
then there is no case in law or equity, and no jurisdiction
is given by the words of the article. But if, in any controversy depending in a court, the cause should depend on
the validity of such a law, that would be a case arising
under the Constitution, to which the judicial power of the
United States would extend. The same observation applies to the other instances with which the counsel who
opened the cause has illustrated this argument. Although
they show that there may be violations of the Constitution of which the courts can take no cognizance, they do
not show that an interpretation more restrictive than the
words themselves import ouglht to be given to this article.
They do not show that there can be 'a case in law or equity'
arising under the Constitution, to which the judicial power
does not extend."
See also in this connection Chicago & Grand Trunk Railway Company v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339. On page 345 of
the opinion in that case the result of the previous decisions
of this court was summarized in these apposite words by
Mr. Justice Brewer, who spoke for the court:
"Whenever, in pursuance of an honest and actual antagonistic assertion of rights by one individual against
another, there is presented a question involving the validity of any act of any legislature, State or Federal, and the
decision necessarily rests on the competency of the legislature to so enact, the court must, in the exercise of its
solemn duties, determine whether the act be constitutional
or not; but such an exercise of power is the ultimate and
supreme. function of courts. It is legitimate only in the
last resort, and as a necessity in the determination of
real, earnest and vital controversy between individuals. It
never was the thought that, by means of a friendly suit, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 V. S.

party beaten in the legislature could transfer to the courts
an inquiry as to the constitutionality of the legislative
act."
Applying the principles thus long settled by the decisions of this court to the act of Congress undertaking to
confer jurisdiction in this case, we find that William Brown
and Levi B. Gritts, on their own behalf and on behalf of
all other Cherokee citizens having like interest in the property allotted .under the act of July 1, 1902, and David
Muskrat and J. Henry Dick, for themselves and representatives of all Cherokee citizens enrolled as such for
allotment as of September 1, 1902, are authorized and empowered to institute suits in the Court of Claims to determine the validity- of acts of Congress passed since the act
of July 1, 1902, in so far as the same attempt to increase
or extend the restrictions upon alienation, encumbrance,
or the right to lease the allotments of lands of Cherokee
citizens, or to increase the number of persons entitled to
share in the final distribution of lands and funds of the
Cherokees beyond those enrolled for allotment as of September 1, 1902, and provided for in the said act of July 1,
1902.
The jurisdiction was given for that purpose first to the
Court of Claims and then upon appeal to this bourt. That
is, the object and purpose of the suit is wholly comprised
in the determination of the constitutional validity of certain acts -of Congress;. and furthermore, in the last paragraph of the section, should a judgmeni be rendered in the
Court of Claims or this court, denying the constitutional
validity of such acts, then the amount of comptnsation
to be paid to attorneys employed for the purpose7 0f testin the constitutionality of the ,law is to be ,paid out of
funds in the Treasury of the United -States belonging to
the beneficiaries, the act having previously provided that
the United States should be made a party and the Attorney General be charged with the defense of the suits.

MUSKRAT v. UNITED STATES.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is therefore evident that there is neither more nor
less in this procedure than an attempt to provide for a
judicial determination, final in this court, of the constitutional validity of an act of Congress. Is such a determinatioil within the judicial power conferred by the Constitution, as the same has been interpreted and defined in
the authoritative decisions to which we have referred?
We think it is not. That judicial power, as we have seen,
is the right to determine actual controversies arising between adverse litigants, duly instituted in courts of proper
jurisdiction. The right to declare a law unconstitutional
arises because an act of Congress relied upon by one or the
other of such parties in determining their rights is in conflict with the fundamental law. The exercise of this, the
most important and delicate duty of this court, is not given
to it as a body with revisory power over the action of Congress, but because the rights of the litigants in justiciable
controversies require the court to choose between the
fundamental law and a law purporting to' be enacted
within constitutional authority, but in fact' beyond the
power delegated to the legislative branch of the Government. This attempt to obtain a judicial declaration of the
validity of the act of Congress is not presented in a "case"
or "controversy," to which, under the' Constitution of
the United States, the judicial' power- alone extends. It
'is true the United States is made a defendant to this action, but it has no interest adverse to the 'claimants. The
object is not to assert a property right as against the Government, 'or to demand compensation for alleged wrongs
because of action upon its part. The whole purpose of
the law is to determine the constitutional validity of this
class of legislation, in a suit not arising -between parties,
concerning a property right necessarily 'involved in the
decision in question, but in a proceeding against'.the Government in its sovereign capacity, and concerning which
the only judgment required is to settle the doubtful char-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

acter of the legislation in question. Such judgment will
not conclude private parties, when actual litigation brings
to the court the question of the constitutionality of such
legislation. In a legal sense the judgment could not be
executed, and amounts in fact to no more than an expression of opinion upon the validity of the acts in question. Confining the jurisdiction of this court within the
limitations conferred by the Constitution, which the court
has hitherto been careful to observe, and whose boundaries it has refused to transcend, we think the Congress,
in the act of March 1, 1907, exceeded the limitations of
legislative authority, so far as it required of this court action not judicial in its nature Within the meaning of the
Constitution.
Nor can it make any difference that the petitioners had
brought suits in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior from
carrying into effect the legislation subsequent to the act
of July 1, 1902, which suits were pending when the jurisdictional act here involved was passed. The latter act
must depend upon its own terms and be judged by the
authority which it undertakes to confer. If such actions
as are here attempted, to determine the validity of legislation, are sustained, the result will be that this court, instead of keeping within the limits of judicial power and
deciding cases or controversies arising between opposing
parties, as the Constitution intended it should, will be
required to give opinions in the nature of advice concerning legislative action, a function never conferred upon it
by the Constitution, and against the exercise of which
this court has steadily set its face from the beginning.
The questions involved in this proceeding as to the
validity of the legislation may arise in suits between individuals, and when they do.and are prmperly brought before this court for consideration they, of course, must be
determined in the exercise of its judicial functions. For

EX PARTE HARDING.
219 V. S.

Syllabus.

the reasons we have stated, we are constrained to hold
that these actions present no justiciable controversy
within the authority of the court, acting within the limitations of the Constitution under which it was created.
As Congress, in passing this act as a part of the plan involved, evidently intended to provide a review of the
judgment of the Court of Claims in this court, as the constitutionality of important legislation is concerned, we
think the act cannot be held to intend to confer jurisdiction on that court separately considered. Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 565; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463.
The judgments will be reversed and the cases remanded to
the Court of Claims, with directions to dismiss the petitions for want of jurisdiction.

EX PARTE HARDING, PETITIONER.
No.

-.

Original. Submitted December 12, 1910.-Decided February 20, 1911.

The general rule that a court, having jurisdiction over the subjectmatter and the parties, is competent to decide questions arising as

to its jurisdiction and that its decisions on such questions are not
open to collateral attack, applied in this case; and mandamus refused to compel the Circuit Court to remand a case in which it decided that it had jurisdiction on the issues of citizenship and
separable controversy.
There is nothing peculiar in an order of the Cirqit Court refusing
to remand which differentiates it from any other order or judgment
of a Federal Court concerning its jurisdiction.
In this case the exceptional rule that mandamus will lie to the Circuit
Court to correct an abuse of judicial discretion in retaining a case
over which it has not jurisdiction does not apply.

