OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. 8.

exception established by Virginia v. Rives and the cases
which have properly applied the doctrine of that case.
Our duty to take this course arises not only because of the
misconception which must otherwise continue to exist,
but also because it is to be observed that material portions
of the act of 1875, which were made the basisof the ruling
in Ex parte Hoard,are yet in force, and because the cogency
of the considerations arising frn this fact are greatly increased by the duty to give effect to the provisions of the
judiciary act of 1891 concerning the review of.final orders
and judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of the
United States.
As then our conclusion is that the case under consideration is not controlled by the ruling in Exparte Wisner or
kindred cases, but is governed by the general rule expressed in Ex part. Hoard and followed, in In re Pollitz
and Ex parte Nebraska, and, lastly, applied in Ex parte
Gruotter, it clearly results that the application for leave is
without merit, and
Leave to file is denfed.

WEYEI:J{AEUSER v. HOYT.
.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT, OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24.

Argued April 27, 28, 1910.-Restored to docket for reargument

December 19, 1910.-Reargued January 19, 20, 1911.-Decided February 20, 1911.

It was the purpose of Congress, as evidenced by the original Northern
Pacific Land Grant Act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, and the.
joint resolution of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 378, extending the in-

demnity limits, to confer substantial rights to the lands withirthe
indennity limits in lieu of those lost within place limits.
The right of the company to lieu lands lalfully embraced in selections
filed with the Secretary of the Interior excluded lands to which
rights of others had attached before the selection and also excluded

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

the right of others to appropriate lands so embraced in such selections pending action by the Secretary.
The power of the Secretary to approve selections is judicial in its nature,
and implies the duty to determine as of the time of filing the selection and the doctrine of relation applies to decisions as to validity of
such selections.
In this case held, that the company's rights to lieu lands embraced in a
selection were superior to those of a purchaser under the Timber and
Stone Act who filed pending final decision by the Secretary and between the time of decision of the Secretary holding that the selections were unlawful and the subsequent reversal of that decision;
and that the final decision related back to the date of the original
selection. Sjoli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564, distinguished.
General expressions in every opinion are to be taken in connection
with the case in which those expressions are used. If they go beyond
the case, they may be respected, but they are not controlling when
the very point is presented in, a subsequent case.
General expressions in an opinion such as those in Sjoli v. Dreschet, 19
U. S. 564, will not be made the basis for overthrowing a uniform rule
of the Land Department, involving destructive effects upon property rights existing under different conditions.
The contention in this case, overruled by the Secretary, that the company was not entitled to lieu lands within indemnity limits because
not on the same side of railroad as the place lands lost, held to be
without merit.
Where a matter regarding selection of lieu land is wholly within the
jurisdiction of the Secretary deciding it, this court will assume that
the facts on which the decision rested were properly proved.
Humbird v. Avery, 195 U. S. 485, followed as to construction of 'provisions of Sundry Civil Act of July 1, 1898, c. 546, 30 Stat. 597,
620, and decision of Secretary in this case sustained; but quare and
not decided, as to effect of such provisions on purchasers under the
Timber and Stone Act.
Where the object of the bill is to charge the defendant as trustee of
land included in lieu limits of a railway grant for the complainant,
if it appears that a valid selection was made, proof that defendant's
grantor never acquired title to the land would not establish coniplainant's right to it.
161 Fed. Rep. 324, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Northern Pacific Land Grant Acts, are stated. in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn and Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with
whom Mr. Stiles W. Burr was on the brief, for appellants
in No. 24 and appellees in No. 12.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiffs in error in No. 181.
Mr. M. H. Stanford for appellees in No. 24 and appellants in No. 12.
Mr. P. B. Gorman for defendant in error in No. 181.1
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Conflicting claims to forty acres of land in the State of
Minnesota is the controversy which this case involves.
Both parties assert title derived from the United States,
the appellants in virtue of a patent issued under a land
grant made to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
and the appellees as the result of an alleged purchase under
the timber and stone act. The facts are these:
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company in 1883 filed
in the Land Department a list of indemnity selections
which embraced the land in question. In 1893 a rearranged list was filed, differing from the previous one, in
that it specified the particular tract of land lost in the place
limits for which each described selection within the indemnity limits was made. The Land Department having
ruled that the eastern terminus of the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company was not at Ashland but at Duluth, a
point west of Ashland, the selections, so far as they related
to lands east of Duluth, among which was the land in conThis case was argued simultaneously with No. 12, Campbell v.
Weyerhaeuser, post, p. 424, and Northern Pacific Railway Company v.

Wass, post. p. 426.

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

troversy, were cancelled by order of the Secretary of the
Interior. Following this, in December of that year, Richard B. Jones applied to purchase the land under the timber
and stone act. A few months after, on February 28, 1898,
the Secretary of the Interior made an order formally withdrawing from entry the selected land east of Duluth in
order, as was declared, to preserve the right of the railroad company, if any, resulting from the selections previously filed, pending the decision by this court of cases
involving whether the eastern terminus was at Duluth or
at Ashland. About nine months after this withdrawal,
in December, 1898, Jones made his final proof and paid
the purchase money, one hundred dollars. The receiver
of the local land -office, however, recited in the receipt
issued to Jones that his rights were "subject to any claim
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company may have to the
lands herein descri1eqd."
In 1900 (Doherty v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 177 U. S.
421, 435) it was decided that the eastern terminus of the
Northern Pacific Railroad was at Ashland, and therefore
that the Land Department had erred in holding that such
terminus was at Duluth. The Secretary of the Interior
then formally reinstated -the list of selections previously
filed by the railroad company, the. entry of Jones was cancelled, and the selections were approved and patents issued
to the Northern Pacific Railway Company as entitled to
all rights under the selections. The railway company conveyed the tract in controversy to Weyerhaeuser and
Humbird, the present appellants.
This suit was then begun by Hoyt in a court of the State
of Minnesota against Weyerhaeuser. and Humbird to compel a conveyance of the land and to restrain the cutting or
removal of timber during the pendency of the suit, on the
ground that the title was held by the defendants in trust
for complainant. The right to relief was principally based
upon the contention that the purchase by Jones under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

timber and stone act was paramount to the indemnity
selection previously made by the railroad company, .and
hence that the Land Department had fallen into an error
of law in patenting the land to the company. In addition
there were numerous other grounds upon which the right
to relief was predicated, but we do not deem it necessary
now to detail them, as we shall come to state and dispose of
them after we have passed upon the contention concerning
the paramount nature of the timber and stone entry. The
case having been removed into a Circuit Court of theUnited States, upopi the ground that on the face of the
bill it involved the construction of acts of Congress, was
in that court tried and a decree was entered dismissing the
bill. The Circuit Court of Appeals, whose action is now
under review, reversed the decree of the Circuit Court and
remanded the cause with directions to enter a decree for
the complainant granting the relief pxayed. 161 Fed. Rep.
324.
The decision of the court was based' upon the conclusion
that the application to purchase made by Jones, although
subsequent in date to the filing by the railroad company
of its. list of indemnity selections, was paramount to such
selections, even although they had been subsequently approved by the Secretary of the Interior. This was not t,
however the result of an interpretation originally considered of the granting act, but was exclusively caused, as
shown by the opinion of the court, by what was held to be
the authoritative and controlling operation of a' decision
of this court. Sjoli v. Dreschel, 199 V. S. 564. The
soundness of this view lies at the threshold of the case,since, if it be that the rights of the parties are authoritatively concluded by the ruling in the Sjoli case, it will not
be necessary to further consider the subject. Coming at
once to analyze the ruling in the Sjoli case in order to fix
its true import, we think it is apparent that the court below
was mistaken in holding that the decision was here au-

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thoritatively decisive. This is said because we see, no escape from that conclusion when the issues in the Sjoli case
are accurately ascertained and'are compared with those
here presented.
The Sjoli controversy, succinctly stated, thus arose: A
homestead settler went in 1884 upon land within the indemnity limits of the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company. He erected a dwelling-house and moved
into it with his family and cultivated a portion of the land,
all prior to the filing in 1885 of a list of selections by the
railroad company, embracing the tract settled upon by
Sjoli. Although the settler had thus prior to the filing of
the list of selections entered upon and improved the land
with the intention of perfecting title under the homestead
laws, his application to enter, for reasons which need not
be here adverted to, was not made until subsequent to the
-filing by the railroad company of its list of selections.
Relying upon this fact, the railroad company opposed the
application of Sjoli, and the proceedings which took place
in the Land Department simply required the department
to:determine whether the railroad company, by the filing
of its list of selections, could deprive the settler Sjoli of his
rights, despite the fact that his settlement and improvement of the land had occurred prior to the filing by the
company of its list of selections. The Land Department
decided in favor of the settler, and a patent was issued to
him.
The matter decided by this coart in the Sjoli case arose
from the bringing of a suit by Dreschel, as assignee of, the
rights of the railroad company, asserting that Sjoli hield
the land in trust for him as the grantee of the *railway
company, because the Land Department had, as a matter of law, erred in deciding that the rights of ihe settler
Sjoli were paramount to the subsequent selection by the
railroad company, since at the time of the fiiing of such
list of selections no record evidence existed in the Land
VOL. CCXIx-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U.S.

Department of the asserted settlement by Sjoli or of his
intention to avail of the benefit of the homestead laws.
The action of the Land Department in maintaining the
paramount right of the settler was sustained. As it is
manifest from the statement we have made that the controversy in this case involves no question whatever concerning the rights of a settler initiated prior to the filing
by the railroad company of its list of selections, but simply
calls upon us to determine whether the Land Department
erred in deciding that a filed list of selections was after
approval paramount to a subsequent application to purchase, it is at once demonstrated that the question here involved is wholly different from that which was decided in
the Sjoli case. This difference is as wide as that which
would exist between a ruling that one who was prior in
time was prior in right, and a directly antagonistic decision that one who was subsequent in time was yet prior
in right. And the broad distinction which obtains between
the matter which was involved and decided in the Sjoli
case and the question presented on this record is made, if
need be, more apparent when it is considered that in the
Sjoli case th6 action of the Land Department in issuing the
patent to the settler, because he was prior in time was sustained, while to hold that decision applicable -here would
reverse the action of the Land Department in issuing a
patent to the railway company because it was prior in
time. While in view of this difference between the issues
involved in the Sjoli case and those here arising, we are
constrained to the conclusion that the former case cannot
be held to be here authoritatively decisive, of course the
due persuasive force of the reasoning of the opinion in the
Sjoli case if here applicable remains, and must be considered when we come, as we now do, to pass upon the controversy here arising, enlightened by the true interpretation
of the grantiig act as elucidated by the applicable decisions of this court.

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is beyond dispute on the face of the granting act of
July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, 367, and of the joint
resolution of May 31, 1870, c. 67, 16 Stat. 378, extending the indemnity limits, that it was the purpose of Congress in making the grant to confer a substantial right to
land within the indemnity linits in lieu of lands lost
within the place limits. It is also beyond dispute that as
the only method provided by the granting act for executing the grant in this respect was a selection of the lieu
lands by the railroad company subject to the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior that a construction which
would deprive the railroad company of its substantial
right to select and would render nugatory the exertion of
power of the Secretary of the Interior to approve lawful
selecti6ns when made would destroy the right which it
was the purpose of Congress to confer. That the effect of
holding that lands lawfully embraced in a list of selections
duly filed and awaiting the approval of the Secretary of
the Interior could, in the interim, be appropriated at will
by others would be destructive of the right of selection, is
not only theoretically apparent from the mere statement
of the proposition, but has moreover in actual experience
been found to be the practical result of carrying that doctrine into effect. See 25 Opin. Atty. Gen. 632. Considering the language of the granting act from a narrower point
of view a like conclusion is in reason rendered necessary.
The right to select within indemnity limits was conferred
to replace lands granted in place which were lost to the
railroad company because removed from the operation of
the grant of lands in place by reason of the existence of
the rights of others originating before the definite location
of the road. The right to select within indemnity limits
excluded lands to which rights of others had attached before the selection, and hence simply required that the selection when made should not include lands which at that
time were subject to the rights of others. The requirement

OCTOBER T.ERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

of approval by the Secretary consequently imposed on that
official the duty of determining whether the selections
were lawful at the time they were made, which is inconsistent with the theory that any one could appropriate the
selected land pending action of the Secretary. The scope
of the power to approve lists of selections conferred on
the Secretary was clearly pointed out in Wisconsin Central
Railroad v. Price, 133 U. S. 496, 511, where it was said
that the power to approve was judicial in its nature. Possessing that attribute the authority therefore involved not
only the power but implied the duty to determine the lawfulness of the selections as of the time when the exertion
of the authority was invoked by the lawful filing of the
list of selections. This view, while it demonstrates the
unsoundness of the interpretation of the granting act
which the contrary proposition involves, serves also at
once to establish that the obvious purpose of Congress
in imposing the duty of selecting and submitting the selections when made to the final action of the Secretary of the
Interior, was to bring into play the elementary principle of
relation, repeatedly sanctioned by this court and uniformly applied by the Land Department from the beginning, up to this time under similar circumstances in the
practical execution of the land laws of the United States.
Without attempting to cite the many cases in this court
illustrating and applying the doctrine, a few only which
are aptly pertinent and here decisive are referred to. Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 100; Shepley v. Cowan, 91
U. S. 330; St. PaulRailroad v. Winona Railroad, 112 U. S.
720, 733; Oregon & C. R. R. v. United States, 189 U. S. 103,
112; United States v. Detroit Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321. 334,
and cases cited.
In Shepley v. Cowan there was conflict between a preemption claim and a selection on behalf of the State of
Missouri under an act of Congress conveying to the State
a large quantity of land to be selected by the governor,

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the act providing that if the selection should be approved
by the Secretary of the Interior patents were to issue. The
court said (p. 337):
"'The party who takes the initiatory step in such cases,
if followed up to patent, is deemed to have acquired the
better right as against others to the premises. The patent
which is afterward issued relates back to the date of the
initiatory act, and cuts off all intervening claimants. Thus
the patent upon a state selection takes effect as of the
time when the selection is made and reported to the land
office; and the patent upon a preemption settlement takes
effect from the time of.the settlement as disclosed in the
declaratory statement or proofs of the settler to the register of the local land office."
On page 338, after distinguishing Frisbie v. Whitney, 9
Wall. 187, and Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77, the court
said:
. "But whilst, according to these decisions, no vested
right as against the United States is acquired until all the
prerequisites for the acquisition of the title have been complied with, parties may, as against each other, acquire a
right to be. preferred in the purchase, or other acquisition
of the land when the United States have determined to
sell or donate the property. In all such cases the first in
time in the commencement of proceedings for the acquisition of the title, when the same are regularly followed
up, is deemed fo be the first in right."
In St. PaulRailroadv. Winona Railroad, 112 U. S. 720,
one of the questions arising for decision was which of two
railroad companies was entitled to certain tracts of lieu
lands situated within overlapping indemnity limits of certain grants made by an act of Congress to the Territory of
Minnesota, to aid in the construction of the roads of the
contesting companies. The selections were to be made by
the governor, and required the approval of the Secretary of
the Interior. The Winona company filed a list of selec-

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

tions. The St. Paul company made no selections, but
nevertheless, on grounds which need not be stated, the Secretary of the Interior certified the lands to the State for the
use of that company. The Winona company brought suit
in the state court to have a declaration of its rights in the
land, and to restrain the St. Paul company and others from
receiving a patent or other evidence of title to the lands
from the governor of the State. The state court decreed in
favor of the Winona company, and this court affirmed its
action. In the course of the opinion it was said (page 731):
"The time when the, right to lands becomes vested,
which are to be selected within given limits under these
land grants, whether the selection is in lieu of lands deficient within the primary limits of the grant or of lands
which for other reasons are to be selected within certain
secondary limits, is different in regard to those that are
ascertained within the primary limits by the location of
the line of the road."
After referring to prior decisions the conclusion was
reached that, as to the lands to be selected, "priority of
selection secures priority of right," and that as the Winona
company alone had made selection of the lands, and that
selection was lawful, the right to the land as against third
parties vested in the Winona company as of the date of the
filing of its lists of selections. In concluding the opinion
it was said (p. 733):
"It is no answer to this to say that the Secretary of the
Interior certified these lands to the State for the use of the
appellant.' It is manifest that he did so under a mistake
of the law, namely, that appellant, having made the earlier location of its road through these lands, became entitled to satisfy all its demands, either for lieu lands or for
the extended grant of 1864, out of any odd sections within
twenty miles of that location, without regard to its proximity to the line of the other road. We Have already
shown that such is not the law, and this erroneous de-

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cision of his cannot deprive the Winona company of rights
which became vested by its selection of those lands. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 80; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13
Wall. 92, 102; Shepley v. Cowen, 91 U. S. 330, 340; Moore
v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530, 536."
So, also, in Oregon & C. R. R. v. United States, 189 U. S.
103, the court said (p. 112):
!'Now, it has long been settled that while a railroad
company, after its definite location, acquires an interest
in the odd-numbered .sections within its place or granted
limits-which interest relates back to the date of the
granting act-the rule is otherwise as to lands within indemnity limits. As to lands of the latter class, the company acquires no interest in any specific sections until a selection is mnade with the approval of the Land Department;
and then its right relates to the date of the selection. And
nothing stands in the way of a disposition of indemnity
lands, prior to selection, as Congress may choose to make."
The doctrine thus affirmatively established by this court
as we have said has been the rule applied by the Land Department in the practical execution of land grants from
the beginning. Porter v. Landrum, 31 L. D. 352; Southern
Pacific Railroad Co., 32 L. D. 51; Satta Fe Pacific Railroad Co., 33 L. D. 161; Eaton v. Northern Pacific Railway Co., 33 L. D. 426; Santa Fe Pacific Railroad Co. v.
Northern Pacific Railway Co., 37 L. D. 669. The wellsettled rule of the Land.Department on the subject was
thus stated by the then Assistant Attorney General in the
Department, now Mr. Justice Van Devanter as follows:
"Under this legislatiog the company was, by the direction or regulations of the Secretary of the Interior, required
to present at the local land office selections of indemnity
lands, and these selections, when presented conformably
to such direction or regulations, were to be entertained
and noted or recognized on the records of the local office.
When this was done the selections became lawful filings;

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

and while, until approved and patented, they would remain
subject to examination, and to rejection or cancellation
where found for any reason to be unauthorized, they, like
all other filings, were entitled to recognition and protec-.
tion so long as they remained undisturbed upon the
records.
"There is no question in this case as to the sufficiency
of the loss assigned, or as to the formality and regularity
of the selection.
"What effect has been given to a pending railroad indemnity selection?
"Prior to 1887 the rights of a railroad company within
the indemnity belt of its grant were protected by executive
withdrawal, but on August 15, that year, these withdrawals were revoked, and the land restored to settlement and
entry; but such orders, although silent upon the subject
were held not to restore lands embraced in pending selections. Dinwiddie v. Florida Railway & Navigation Co., 9
L. D. 74. In the circular of September 6, 1897, (6 L. D.
131), issued immediately after the general revocation of
indemnity withdrawals, it was provided that any application thereafter presented for lands embraced in a pending.
railroad indemnity selection, and not accompanied by a
sufficient showing that the land was for some cause not
subject to the selection, was not to be accepted, but was
to be held subject to the claim of the company under such
selection. In fact, a railroad indemnity selection, presented in accordance with departmental regulations and
accepted or recognized by the local officers, has been uniformly recognized by the land department as having the
same segregative effect as a homestead or other entry
made under the general land laws."
.Despite the doctrine of this court as expounded in the
cases previously referred to, the unbroken practice of the
Land Department from the beginning in the execution of
land grants, impliedly sanctioned by Congress during the

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

many years that administrative construction has prevailed,
and the destructive effect upon rights conferred by landgrant acts which would result from applying the contrary
view, it is yet urged that this must be done because of decisions of this court which it is insisted constrain to that
conclusion. One of the decisions thus referred to is Sjoli v.
Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564, to which we have previously referred, and others are cited in the margin.1
What we have already said as to the Sjoli case would
suffice to dispose of the suggestion concerning that case,
but we shall recur to it. As to the other cases, it would be
adequate to say that not one of them involved the question
here under consideration nor even by way of obiter was
an opinion expressed on such question. Indeed, all the
cases relied upon may be placed in one of three classes:
a, those involving the nature and character of the tight,
if any, to indemnity lands prior to selection; b, whether
such lands, after. the filing of a list of selections and before action by the Secretary of the Interior thereon, could
be taxed by a State to the railroad company as the owner
thereof; and, c, those which were concerned with the nature and character of acts which were adequate to initiate
a right to public land which would be paramount to a list
of selections when the acts were done before the filing of
the list of selections. In none of the cases, moreover, was
the well-settled doctrine of this court as to relation, even
by remote implication, questioned. Indeed, in most of
the cases relied upon the previous decisions to which we
have referred to expounding the doctrine of relation were
approvingly cited or expressly reaffirmed.
Ryan v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 99 U. S. 382; Kansas Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Atchison &c. R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 414; Kansas P. R. R.
Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S.629, 639, 644; Wisconsin C. R. Co. v. Price
County, 133 U. S. 496, 511; United States v. Missouri &c. Ry., 141 U. S.
359, 374, 375; New Orleans Pacific Ry. Co. v. Parker,143 U. S. 42, 57;
Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S.139.
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

The Sjoli case, from the facts we have already stated,
is clearly here inapplicable, because it falls in the third of
the above classes. If it be conceded that general language
was used in the opinion in that case which when separated
from its context and disassociated from the issues which
the case involved, might be considered as here controlling,
that result could not be accomplished without a violation
of the fundamental rule announced in Cohens v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 399, so often since reiterated and expounded by
this court, to the effect that "General expressions in every
opinion are to be taken in connection with th, case in
which those expressions are used. If they go beyond the
case, they may be respected, but ought not to control the
judgment in a subsequent suit when the very point is presented for decision." The wisdom of the rule finds apt
illustration here when it is considered that not even an intimation was conveyed in the Sjoli case of any intention
to overrule the repeated prior decisions of this court concerning the operation and effect of the doctrine of relation
upon the approval, by the Secretary of the Interior, of s
lawful list of selections. That the general expressions in
the Sjoli case are not persuasive here clearly'resiilts from
the demonstration which*we have previously made that
to apply them would be in effect to destroy the indemnity
provisions of the granting act. Moreover, that serious
general injurious consequences would arise from treating
the expressions relied upon in the Sjoli case as persuasive
is clear, (a) because to do so would result ifthe overthrow
of the uniform rule by which the Land Department has
administered land grants from the beginning, a rule continued in force after the decision in the Sjoli case, becaUse:
of the administrative conclusion that that case should be
confined to a like state of facts and not be extended to
other and different conditions (25 Opin. Atty. Gen. 632);
(b) because of the destructive effect upon rights of property and the infinite confusion which would now arise from

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

extending, under the circumstances stated, the observations in the Sjoli case to the wholly different state of facts
presented upon this record.
While the foregoing disposes of the main propositions
which the case presents, there are additional contentions
which it is necessary to pass upon. Irrespective of any
question as to the paramount nature of a list of selections,
it is contended on behalf of appellee, contrary to.the ruling
of the Secretary of the Interior: a, that the selection by the
railroad company of the tract in controversy was void and
it could not lawfully be approved; b, in any event that he
was entitled to the land by virtue of the provisions of an
act approved July 1, 1898, c. 546, 30i Stat. 620; and, c, the
Northern Pacific Railway Company did not succeed to
the rightes of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company in
the land, if any right thereto became vested in the latter
company.
a. This contention is predicated upon the claim that
the selecting company had not sustained a legal loss of the
tract in lieu of which the land in controversy was selected,
and that if it had sustained the loss the selection was not
lawful, because the tract selected was not on the same side
of the railroad as the tract lost and was not the nearest unappropriated land to it. These contentions were considered at much length by the Secretary of the Interior in the
opinion, copied in the record, affirming the cancejlation of
the entry of Jones (34 L. D. 105) and were found not to be
meritorious. The reasons advanced by the Secretary in
support of his rulings upon the legal propositions involved
seem to us convincing, and we therefore hold the contentions untenable. Cognate to the contentions just disposed
of is a claim made in argument that the filed list of selections was void for the reason that the joint resolution of
May 31, 1870, establishing the second indemnity limits,
required certain facts to appear in order to entitle the
railway company to the land, and that in selecting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

land those requisites were not complied with. The claim
substantially embodies merely criticisms directed to the
form or regularity of the selection list, and is not, in any
view, of such a character as to render void the filed list.
The matter being within the jurisdiction of the Secretary
of the Interior, we must assume that the facts necessary
to establish the right to approve the selections were shown
to his satisfaction.
b. This contention asserts that complainant is entitled
to the land by virtue of certain provisions relating to the
Northern Pacific land grant contained in the subdivision
entitled, "Surveying the Public Lands," embodied in the
Sundry Civil Appropriation Act of July 1, 1898. The provisions are copied in the opinion in Humbirdv. Avery, 195
U. S., beginning at page 485, and need not be here repeated.
As there said, they "disclose a scheme or plan for the settlement of the disputes arising out of the conflicting rulings
in the Land Department in reference to the eastern terminus of the railroad, and its action in reference to the public
lands between Duluth and Ashland." It is argued that the
Secretary of the Interior erroneously decided that the land
could not be claimed under the act of 1898 by Jones or his
grantee, because prior to January 1, 1898, Jones had done
nothing more than to file his application for the land, and
was consequently not a purchaser entitled to the benefits
of the statute. In our opinion no error was committed by
the Secretary in so deciding. Because we reach this conclusion we must not be considered as intimating any opinion whatever regarding the soundness of the contention,
made on behalf of the appellants, to the effect that in any
event the act of 1898 can have no application to one who
purchased land under the timber and stone act.
c. It is contended that the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, under its charter, had no power to purchase the
tract of land here in controversy, and that for various reasons the legal proceedings under which the railway com-

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HARLAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

pany asserted it had acquired the rights of the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company in the land were ineffective to
produce any such result. On this record,. however, it is not
necessary to pass upon these contentions. As the object of
the bill is to seek to charge the defendants as trustees of
the land for complainant, plainly, if a valid selection was
made, proof that their grantor never acquired title to the
land would not establish a right to it in the complainant.
It follows that the decree of the Court of Appeals must
be reversed and that of the Circuit Court affirmed.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, with whom concurred MR. JusTIC

DAY,

dissenting.

This case is of sufficient importance to justify a full
statement of the facts, as well as the grounds upon which
we feel constrained to dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.
By the final decree under review the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit unanimously reversed the
judgment of the Circuit Court with directions to give the
plaintiff Hoyt, now appellee, the relief asked in his bill.
The general object of the suit was to have it adjudged
that the present defendants, Weyerhaeuser and Humbird,
now appellants, should hold the legal title to certain
lands in Minnesota in trust for the plaintiff and be enjoined during the pendency of the cause, from selling, disposing of or removing, or from attempting to create any
charge upon, the timber standing or lying upon the premises in question.
Many. questions have been discussed by counsel. But
there is one which seems to require special examination.
The facts out of which that question arises may be thus
stated:
The land in question is the southwest quarter of the
southeast quarter of section seven, township fifty-four, of

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HMqBAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

range fourteen west, principal meridian. It contains forty
acres, and is situated in St. Louis County, Minnesota. It
is unfit for cultivation, is valuable chiefly for its timber, has
no Valuable deposit of gold, silver, cinnabar, copper or coal
upon it, was at the time mentioned in the record uninhabited, and contained no mining or other improvements.
For the purpose of availing himself of the act of Congress relating to the sale of timber land in California,
Oregon, Nevada, and Washington Territory, approved
June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 89, c. 151,-which act was amended
August 4, 1892, and its benefits extended to all the States,
27 Stat. 348, c. 375,-one Richard B. Jones, a citizen of the
United States and admittedly, in all respects, qualified
under the laws of the United States to enter land, filed,
December 17, 1897, with the Register and Receiver in the
Land Office at Duluth a verified written duplicate statement, in due form, indicating his desire to purchase the
land in dispute under the homestead laws of the United
States. One of these statements was promptly transmitted by the Receiver to the General Land Office at
Washington.
The Receiver, in conformity with law, at once posted
in his office, for the required time, the fact of such application, describing the lands by legal subdivision and furnishing Jones a copy of such notice. That notice was duly
published in the newspaper nearest to the land. On the
twenty-seventh day of March, 1898, no adverse claim to
the land having been filed in the Land Office, the applicant,
Jones, after furnishing to the local Register satisfactory
proofs of the preliminary facts required by law, paid to the
Receiver the full purchaseprice of the land, together with all
fees legally due to those officers. Thereupon he was permitted, December 10, 1898, to enter, and did enter the
land, the Receiver executing and delivering to him at the
time an official receipt and certificate of purchase. In December, 1898, all the papers and testimony in the matter

. WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U.S.

HARwAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

of Jones' application, including his certificate cf purchase,
were transmitted by the Register and Receiver to the
General L nd Office at Washington, and by that office was
received and flied. On December 19, 1898, Jones and wife
sold and conveyed the land to Minnie Stewart, by deed
properly recorded on October 3, 1902. Stewart and wife
conveyed to Hoyt, the present plaintiff, now appellee,
and that deed was also duly recorded October 3, 1902.
On the second day of December, 1901-nearly three
years after Jones got his certificate of purchase and.after he
had sold the land-tht Commissioner of the General Land
Office made a decision, holding for cancellation the entry
made by Jones, as above stated, declaring it to be void on
the ground that this land (using the words of the Commissioner) "was selected by the Northern Pacific Railroad
(now Railway Company) October 17th, 1883 for the second indemnity, per list, rearranged list 15 B, in lieu of
land in Section 11, T. 46, R.'16 W., in the primary limits
disposed of between date of grant and definite location of
the road, which selection has not since been abandoned or
the basis otherwise used. The selection was cancelled,
however, by letter of March 22, 1897, because the land is
east of Duluth, the then [supposed] eastern terminal of
the grant under departmental ruling; but said cancellation
was rescinded and the selection restored. by letter of
May 26, 1900, under the decision of the U. S. Supreme
Court, United States v. NorthernPacificR. R. Co., 177 U. S.
435, that the grant extends to Ashland, Wisconsin. December 17, 1897, Richard B. Jones applied to purchase
said tract under the Timber & Stone law, and after due
publication and proof, made entry thereof December 10,
1898. Cash certificate No. 14812. Under the decision of
the court, the selection: of the company is a valid selection,
and the claim of Jones not having been perfected prior to
January 1, 1898, his claim is not within the act of July 1,
1898 (Departmental decision of May 22, 1900, Salter v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

Company). Said entry is therefore hereby held for cancellation for conflict with the prior valid selection of the
company, subject to appeal. Notify him hereof; the company will be informed by this office."
It does not appear that Jones, or any one claiming under
him, had any previous notice of this order, or that there
was any trial or regular hearing'of the matter in the General Land Office.
Upon appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, the above
order of December 2, 1901, was affirmed, and subsequently,
but not until October, 1905, a patent was issued to the
Northern Pacific Railway Company. 35 L. D. 105.
When Jones entered and purchased the land, paying the
Government price for it, and receiving a certificate of his
purchase-which purchase was made and which certificate
was given nearly seven years before a patent was issued to the
Railroad Company-there was in the Land Office .a list of
selections alleged to have been filed by the Railroad Company on October 17, 1883. But the list did not assign each
selection to specific land in the granted limits, which .it
was asserted had been lost by the company. That list
was received at the local Land Office, and transmitted to
the General Land Office. But on the eleventh of April,
1893 the Railroad Company, acting under the direction or
suggestion of the Secretary of the Interior, "rearranged"
its list so as to specify the particular tract lost in the primary limits. In such list the lands in dispute here were set
opposite to particular lands lost in those limits. The
lands mentioned in the company's list, whether we take
the original or rearranged list, were, it must be remembered, within the indemnity limits of the grant made by
Congress in 1864 in aid of the construction of the Northern Pacific Railroad. That is not disputed.
The principal assignment of error is that the entry and
purchase by Jones-under whom Hoyt claims-of the
lands in question were subordinate to the rights acquired

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

by the mere filing of the list of selections by the Railroad
Company, followed as that was by the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior and by a patent, although such
approval was not given nor, as we have seen, the patent issued to the Railroad Company, until many years after Jone8
received his certificate of purchasefrom the Government.
Upon final hearing in the Circuit Court,, the: bill was
dismissed. But upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, all 'the judges concurring, that judgment was reversed, and the case sent back with directions to enter a
decree for the relief Asked in the bill.. Rec 214; Hoyt v.
Weyerhaeuser, 161 Fed. Rep. 324. The principles in the
latter case were accepted and applied by the Supreme
Court of Minnesota in Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wass,
104 Minnesota, 411.
Section 3 ofthe charter of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company of July 2, 1864, provided: "And be it further enacted, that there be, and hereby is, granted to the
'Northern Pacific Railroad Company,' its successors and
assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of
said railroad and telegraph line to the Pacific coast, and
to secure the safe and speedy transportation of the mails,
troops, munitions of war,,and public stores, over the route
of said line of railway, every alternate section of public
land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the
amount of twenty alternate sections per mile, on each side
of said railroad line, as said company may adopt, through
the territories of the United States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes through any state, and whenever, on the
line thereof, the United States have full title, not reserved,
sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from
preemption, or other claims or rights, at the time the line
of said road is definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in
the office of the commissioner of the general land office;
and whenever, prior to said time, any of said sections or
VOL.

ccxIx-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
H~w.N and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

parts of sections shall have been granted, sold, reserved,
occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted, or otherwise
disposed of, other lands shall be selected by said company
in lieu thereoj, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior,in alternate sections. and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles beyond the limits of said
alternate sections. .
But Congress afterwards broadened or extended the
limits into which the Railroad Company, under the direction of the Secretary, might go in order to supply deficiencies in the granted limits. By the joint resolution of
May 31, 1870, c. 67, 16 Stat. 378, amending the above
act of 1864, "Second indemnity limits" were created.
The resolution provided: "And in the event of there not
being in any state or territory, in which said~main line or
branch may be 'located, at the time of the final location
thereof, the amount of lands per mile granted by Congress
to said company, within the limits prescribed by its charter, then said company shall be entitled, under the directions of the Secretary of the Interior, to receive so many
sections of land belonging to the United States, and designated by odd numbers, in such state or territory, within
ten miles on each side of said road beyond the limits prescribed in said charter, as will make up such defifiency, on
said main line or branch, except mineral and other lands
as excepted in the charter of said company of 1864 to the
amount of lands that have been granted, sold, reserved,
occupied by homestead settlers, premptedl, or otherwise
disposed of subsequent to the passage of the act of July
two, eighteen hundred-and sixty-four. . .
The fundamental inquiry in the case is whether Jones'
entry, occupancy and purchase of the lands were subject
or subordinate to the previous filing of the list of selections
by the Railroad Company, the Secretary of the Interior
not having approved such list until, after such entry, occupancy, and purchase by Jones. The judgment below

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

H wAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

proceeded upon two principal grounds: 1. That the Railroad Company did not acquire any right or interest in the
lands selected within indemnity limits by the mere filing
of its list of 8elections. 2. That after such list was filed,
and while it was unapproved by the Secretary, the lands
remained fully open to entry and purchase by homesteaders
and preemptors under the laws of the United States; that
in the absence of the approval of the Secretary of the Inteior, the mere filing of the lists put no obstacle whatever in
the
of homesteaders or preemptioners seeking to acquireway
public lands not already appropriated or sold
under
the laws of the United States; and that by an entry or
purchase in conformity with the homestead or preemption
laws a right attachedto those lands in favor of the entryman
which could not be destroyed or overriden by any subsequent approval by the Secretary of the interior of the
original or rearranged list of selections made by the Railroad Company.
These grounds were sustained by a well-reasoned opinion 4elivered. by Judge Sanborn on behalf of the Circuit
Court of Appeals. In view of the elaborate discussion
by counsel and by themajority of my brethren, it will be
instructive to make a liberal extract from that opinion.
After observing that lands within indemnity limits did
not cease to be public lands open to settlement under
the homestead laws, simply because of their having been
embraced in a list of selections filed by the Railroad Company to supply losses within place limits, the Circuit
Court of Appeals (the italics being ours) said: "The company's unapproved selections did not, therefore, stand
in the way of the lands being occupied and entered under
the homestead laws. The mere filing of its lists of selections of indemnity lands did not have the effect to exclude
them from occupancy under the preemption or homestead
laws. . ..
The question here is not the jurisdiction
but the legality of the decision of the Land Department

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN

and 'DAY, JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

and especially of the Secretary, its head, whereby he

awarded this land to the Railway Company. The facts
and the law warranted and required its award and sale
to Jones. When he presented his application to purchase
it under the Timber and Stone Act the Railway Company's selection of it was unapproved by the Secretary
and that company was without equitable right to it. The
Land Department had jurisdiction to accept the application of Jones and. to sell the land to him, or to approve
the selection of the company and to award the land to it.
It exercised this jurisdiction accepted the application of
Jones, permitted him to enter the land, to prove up his
claim to it, sold it to him, took his $100.00 in payment
for it and issued to him his receiver's receipt, and it did all
this before the selection of the company was approved and
before the company could acquire any right to the land.
Jones' equitable title to the tract had then vested, and
while the jurisdiction of the Land Department continued
until the patent issued, its power was neither arbitrary,
unlimited nor discretionary, and its action was subject to
judicial correction for error of law, fraud or clear mistake.
The jurisdiction and power of disposition which the Land
.Department has of the lands of the United States, like
the power of every other department of the government,
is subject to the laws of the land, and the Land Department's violation or disregard of them is remediable in
the courts. Its power 'cannot be exercised so as to deprive any person of land lawfully entered and paid for.
By such entry and payment the purchaser. secures a vested
interest in the property and a right to a patent therefor, and
can no more be deprived of it by order of the commissioner, than he can be deprived by such order of
any other
lawfully ,acquired property. Any attempted deprivation
in that way will be corrected whenever the matter is presented so that the judiciary can act upon it.' Corneliusv.
Kessel, 128 U. S. 456, 461; GermaniaIron Co. v. James, 89

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HARLAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

Fed. Rep.. 811, 818, 32 C. C. A. 348, 354, 355; James v.
Germania Iron Co., 46 C. C. A. 476, 481, 107 Fed. Rep.
597, 602; Black v. Jackson, 177 U. S. 349; 357; Orchard v.
Alexander, 157 U. S. 372; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S.
473, 478. . . . Finally counsel invokes the familiar
rule that the decisions of officers of other departments of
the government upon questions within their jurisdiction
are cogent and persuasive, and should be followed by
the courts unless they are clearly erroneous, and he reminds us that the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land office have carefully considered the questions in this case and have decided that
Jones was without legal or equitable claim to this land
and that the right of the Railway Company to it was
superior. But Jones was a qualified entrymdn. The attempted withdrawals and selections of the land by the
Secretary prior to his approval of thd company's selection
were unauthorized by law and without legal effect. The land
was open to entry and purchase until he approved the
selection. Jones eitered, bought and paid for it before any
such approval was made. And the decisions of the Supreme Court which have been cited leave no doubt that
the Secretary and the Commissioner fell into a plain error
of law when they took the land which Jones had lawfully
purchased from him or from his grantees and gave it to
the Railway Company. Erroneous decisions of questions.
of law by the officers of the Land Department cannot be
permitted to deprive the equitable owner of. his ves*ed
right to lands which he has lawfully purchased from the
United States. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 80;
Gibson v. Choteau, 13 Wall. 92, 102; Shepley v. Cowan, 91
U. S.330, 340; Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 53"0, 526; St.
Paul R. R. Co. v. Winona Railroad, 112 U. S. 720, 733.
The conclusion is that by his entry arid purchase Jones
acquired the entire beneficial ownership and the equitable
right to thp land ,in controversy and that the Railway

OCTOBER TERM. 1910.
HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ, dissenting.

219 U. S.

Company and its successors in interest obtained nothing
under the patent but the naked legal-title which they held
in trust for him and for his successors in. intereto This
conclusion renders the other questions presented in 'this
case immaterial. The decree must accordingly be reversed and thecase must be remahded to the court below
with directions to enter a decree for the complainant for
the relief prayed in the bill, and it is so ordered."
Many cases, among which was the recent case of Sjoli
v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564, were cited by the Circuit Court
of Appeals to sustain its conclusion. Attention is specially
directed .,o that case because it was only recently decided
after full consideration. The facts in it differ, in some
respects, from those in the case now before us, .but the
principles announced in the Sjoli case were clearly the
result of previous cases. They directly bear upon the
question now under consideration.
It appears-from the report of the Sjoli case -that he
settled on the land there in dispute in 1884 and his original
application was in 1889; whereas, the Railroad Company
filed its list of selections of lands within indemnity limits
to supply deficiencies in place, limits in 1885, Sjoli then
being in the actual occupancy of the land, and having the
intention, by a formal application, to perfect his claim
under the homestead laws. Dreschel claimed under the
Railroad Company. Sjoli got a patent in 1901 based
primarily on his prior occupancy. That was after the
company filed its selections. The essential question in the
case was as to the rights of the homestead settler as against
the Railroad Company which bad filed its list of selections
of the lands after.the homesteader settled on the lands
with the intention to acquire them, but before he made
his formal application for them. Summing up the doctrines previously established, this court declared in the
Sjoli case that from its previous cases.the following propositions were to be deduced: "That the Railroad Com-

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HAwAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

pany will not acquire a vested interest in particular lands,
within or without place limits, merely by filing a map of
general route and having the same approved by the Secretary.of the Interior, although, upon the definite location of
its line of road, and the filing and acceptance of a map
thereof in the office of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, the lands within primary or place limits, not
theretofore reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise disposed
of, and free from prei~mption or other claims or rights,
,become segregated from the public domain, and no rights
in such place lands will attach in favor of a settler or occupant who becomes such after definite location; that no
rights to lands within indemnity limits will attach in favor
of the Railroad Company until after selections made by it
with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior; that up to
the time such approval is given, lands within indemnity
limits, although embraced by the company's list of selections,
are subject to be disposed of by the United States, or to be
settled upon and occupied under the preemption and homestead laws of the United States; and, that the Secretary of
the Interior has no authority to withdraw from sale or
settlement lands that are within indemnity 'limits which
have not been previously selected with his approva4 to
supply deficiencies within the place limits of the company's
road." The words in the Sjoli case, "that up to the time
such approval [by the Secretary] is given, lands within
indemnity limits, although embraced by the company's list
of selections, are subject to be disposed of by the United
States or to be settled upon and occupied under the homestead
laws of the United States"-were cited with approval in
the very recent case of Osborn v. Froyseth, 216 U. S.
571, 578, and was really the basis of the decision in that
case.
But the defendants insist that as Jones' occupancy of
and application for the land was made while there was
pending in the Land Office an unapproved list of selections

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLN and DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

of lands (including the land in question), which the Railroad Company desired to appropriate in order to supply
deficiencies in its primary limits, the subsequent approval
by the Secretary of the company's. list-although such
approval did not in fact occur until 1905--overrode and
annulled any right previously acquired by the homesteader Jones, although he applied, paid for and got his
certificate of purchase more than six years prior to the
actual approval by the Secretary of the Interior of the
original or rearranged selection of these lands. We do
not concur in this view. This view cannot be sustained
without entirely disregarding the doctrines announced
upon full consideration in many other cases, prior to the
Sjoli case.
As counsel have made an earnest and extendedoargument in support of the contrary view it may be well to
recall a few leading cases on the subject, and see just what
has been adjudged.
In Ryan v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 99 U. S.382, the
court construed the second section of the act of July 25,
1866, c. 242 (14 Stat. 239), granting to a company, for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line, alternate odd sections of public land, for ten
miles on each side, subject, however, to the condition that
the Railroad Company might, under the direction of the
Secretary, select alternate odd sections, within ten miles
on each side, nearest the place limits, to supply deficiencies
in lands found to have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, preempted or otherwise disposed of. As to lands in the place limits, the court said
that the right of the company to the odd sections became
fixed and absolute, when the road was located and the
maps of such location were filed. But, said the court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Swayne, "with respect to the
lieu lands, as they are called, the right was a float, and
attached to no specific tracts until the selection was actually

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HRLAN.and DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

made in the manner described." In that case the selection
made by the company was approved by local land officers
and confirmed by the Secretary of the Interior, when there
was no claim upon it. The court further said, in reference
to the land actually selected under the direction of the
Secretary, that "the Railroad Company had not and
could not have any claim to it until specially selected as it
was for that purpose. It was taken to help satisfy. the
grant to the extent that the odd sections originally given
failed to meet its requirements. When so selected there
was no Mexican or other claim over it." In the same case,
referring to the deficiency alleged to exist in the place
limits, the court said: "It was within the secondary or.
indemnity territory where that deficiency was to be supplied. The Railroad Company had not, and could not,
have any claim to it until specially selected, as it was for
that purpose." This language was quoted with approval
in Osborn v. Froyseth, 216 U. S. 578. So, in the present
case when Jones entered and purchased there was no claim
upon these lands that gave the Railroad Company any
right or interest whatever in them which could be asserted
in opposition to the entryman, whose rights had attached
before any approval of the selections.
A similar question under another land grant act arose
in Kansas PacificR. R. Co. v. Atchison &c. R. R. Co., 112
U. S. 414. The claim in that case was under an act of
Congress of July 1, 1862, c. 120 (12 Stat. 489), which made
a grant of lands designated by odd numbers on each side
of the railroad, "which were not sold, reserved or otherwise
disposed of by the United States and to which a preemption or homestead claim had not attached at the time thd
land was definitely fixed." This court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Field, said: "A right to select them [lands] within
certain limits in the case of deficiency within the ten mile
limit, was alone conferred, not a right to any specific land
or lands capable bf identification by any principles of law or

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HAuAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

rules of measurement. Neither locality nor quantity is given,
from which such lands could be ascertained."
In Kansas P. R. R. Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S.629, 639,
644, which involved rights under the act of July 2, 1864,
(c. 317, 13 Stat. 365), granting lands to a railroad company
the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said:. "The
reasonable purpose of the Government undoubtedly is
that which it expressed, namely, while we are giving liberally to the Railroad Company, we do not give any lands
we have already sold, or to which, accordingto our laws, we
have permitted a preemption or homestead right to attach.
No right to such land passes by this grant. No interest in
the Railroad Company attaches to this, land or is to be
founded on this statute." This case was followed in Hastings & D. R. Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357, 366; Whitney..
v. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85, 92-3, and Northern Pacific R. R.
Co. v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620.
In Wisconsin C: R. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S.496,
511, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, in determnining the effect of the mere filing of the list of selections, said:
"Until the selections were approved there were no selections
in'fact, only preliminary proceedings taken for that purpose; and the indemnity lands remained unaffected in their
title. Until then the lands which might be taken as indemnity were incapable of identification; the proposed selection remained the property of the United States.. The
Government was, indeed, under a promise to give the
company indemnity lands in lieu of what might be lost by
the causes mentioned. But such promise passed no title,
and, until it was executed, created no legal interest which
could be enforced in the courts." The mere filing of lists of
selections after the acceptance of the map of definite location of the railroad line between Duluth and Ashland gave
the company no such title as could be enforced by the courts in
a suit between private ptirties. It is true, the Government
was under a promise to give the Railroad Company lands

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HARLAN and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

in the indemnity limits to supply losses in place limits.
But, as adjudged in the above cases, that promise pssed no
title. See Humbird v. Avery, 19.5 U. S. 480, 507, in which
it was said that "no title to indemnity lands is vested until a selection be made by which they are definitely ascertained and the selection made approved by the Secretary
of the Interior. This principle is firmly established"citing Wisconsin Central R. R. v. Price, and other cases.
In United States v. Missouri &c. Railway, 141. U. S.
359, 374-5, which case related to a railroad -land grant, it.
was observed that certain even-numbered sections within
the indemnity limits of the particular railroad concerned'
could, under the statute there in question, have been legally selected as indemnity lands, if no rights had attached
to them before their selection, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior. The court then prodeeds: "We say,
prior to such selection and approval, because as to lands
which may legally be taken for purposes of indemnity the
principle is firmly established that title to them does not
vest in the railroad company,.for the benefit of which they
are contingently granted, but, in the fullest legal sense, remains in the United States, until they are actually selected
and set apart, under the direction of the Secretary of the In.terior, specifically for indemnity purposes"-citing,among
other cases, Sioux City &c. Railroadv. Chicago, Milwaukee
&c. Railroad, 117 U. S. 406, 408, in which the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said: "No title to indemnity
lands was vested until a selection was made by which they
were pointed out and ascertained, and the selection made
approved by the Secretary of the Interior."
In New Orleans Pacific Railway Co. v. Parker, 143 U. S.
42, 57, the language of the court was: "As to lands
within the indemnity limits, it has always been held that
no title is acquired until the specific parcels have been selected and approved by the Secretary of the Interior"-citing numer6us cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

.A full discussion of the rights of parties in respect of
lands in indemnity limits will be found in Hewitt v. Schultz,
i80 U. S. 139, which was determined after great deliberation in 1901. In that case the question arose whether it
was competent for the Secretary of the Interior, after receiving from a railroad company its map of the definite
location, could at once withhold or withdraw from sale or
entry the odd-numbered sections within the indemnity
limits to which the company, with the assent of the Secretary, might be permitted to resort in order to supply deficiencies in (plcelimits. Referring to the opinions of Secretaries Lamar, Vilas and Smith, and approving their
views, the court held such withdrawal to be unauthorized,
indeed, forbidden, by the statute in respect to lands, within
the indemnity limits, left open by Congress for homesteaders
or pre~mptioners while the title remained in the United
States. The opinions of those Secretaries proceeded upon
the ground taken in previous decisions of this court, that
a right to select lands within indemnity limits "was alone
conferred, not a right to any specific land or lands capable
of identification by any principle of law or rules of measurement;" but that "the right of selection became a barren
right, for, until selection was made the title remained in the
Government, subject to its disposal at pleasure." In the
opinion of Secretary Vilas, approved by this court in the
Hewitt case, it was said: "It [the act of Congress] gave to
any person entitled under the' preemption or homestead
laws to take any such lands the absolute right to acquire
any proper quantity thereof, in accordance therewith; and
this right an executive officer could not deprive the settler
of."

In Oregon & C. R. Co. v. United States, 189 U. S. 103, the
court said: "Having regard to the adjudged cases, it is to
be taken as established that, unless othetwise expressly
declared by Congress, no right of the Railroad Compan)
attaches, or can attach to specific lands within indemnity

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HARLAN

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

limits until there is a selection under the direction, or With
the approval, of the Secretary."
Many other cases to the same effect might be cited.
It is, however, contended that the approval by the Secretary of the Interior of the selection of these lands to supply deficiencies in place limits had relation back to the date
when the railroad filed its originallist of selections, and had
the effect to override any rights acquired by the homesteader after that list was filed, and before such approval.
This view, if sustained, Would practically destroy the
rights given to homesteaders and prefmptioners by the
acts of Congress as uniformly interpreted by this court.
Even after the filing of a list of selection of. lands by the
beneficiary under the act of Congress, Jones was entitled,
of right-prior to the actual approval by the Secretary
of the proposed selections-to apply for the lands in dispute, pay for them, get a certificate of his purchase and in
that way acquire them. That right attached to the lands
when he entered upon and appliedfor them under the homestead laws, and he could not be arbitrarily prevented from
paying the'Government price, and obtaining a certificate
of purchase, and perfecting his claim under those laws.
Now, if it be true, and all the cases so hold, that after
the filing of a list of selections by the Railroad Company
of lands within indemnity limits, such lands nevertheless
remained fully open to entry, occupancy and purchase
by homesteaders; if, as held in Hewitt v. Schultz, above
cited, the Secretary of the Interior himself could not, immediately upon the filing of a list by the Railroad Company of selections of indemnity lands, withdraw such lands
from entry or sale, and thus prevent their being entered,
occupied and purchased by homesteaders, prior to the Secretary's actual approval of such selections; and if the mere
filing of the list did not, in itself, in advance of any approval by the Secretary, give the land-grant beneficiary
any right or claim whatever, legal or equitable, in or to any

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAw

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

particular lands specified in the list; then there is no basis
whatever fQr the contention that the Secretary's approIval
of the selection of indemnity lands, after the homesteader's
claim attached to them, can be referred back to the day on
which the Railroad Company filed its list of lands within
indemnity limits, sought to be taken by it-7an act on his
part which, all the cases .agree, did not give it any enforcible
interest in particularlands. That would be using the doctrine of relation, which is a mere fiction of law, to defeat
the manifest will of Congress. To state the proposition in
another way: If the lands embraced by the company's
list of selections were, under the statute, fully open, after
the filing of that list, to entry, occupancy and sale, for the
benefit of homesteader---and that cannot be disputedhow is it possible upon any sound principle, or consistently
with the policy adopted by the Government to encourage
settlements, that the right thus given to the homesteader
could be annulled by any action of the Secretary occurring
after that right accrued and became attached to the lands
in behalf of the homesteader? A preference cannot be
given in this way to the Railroad Company over the homesteader if regard be had to the purpose of Congress to keep
the unappropriated public domain effectively, fully and
completely open to settlers so long as the legal title remained in the United States, or until, some right of the
company actually attached to the lands settled upon. A
different view cannot be sustained except upon the theory
that the mere application of a railroad company to take
particular lands to supply losses in place limits had the
effect to take those lands out of the public domain and prevent their occupancy by homesteaders until it suited the
Land Department-which might postpone its ruling for
many years-to take up the application and pass upon it;
and this, notwithstanding indemnity lands were fully open
to be settled upon by homesteaders so long as the title remained in the United States.

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

415

H.ARLA and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

At a very early date in the administration of the public lands this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Campbell, in
Clements v.. War er, 24 How. 394, 397, said: "The policy
of the Federal Government in favor of settlers upon. public lands has been liberal. It recognizes their superior
equity, to become the purchasers of a limited extent of
land comprehending their improvements, over that of any
other person. By the act of Sept. 4, 1841, c. 16 (5 Stat.
453), the prefmption privilege in favor of actual settlers
was extended over all the public lands of the United States
that were fitted for agricultural purposes and prepared for
market. Later statutes enlarged the privilege, so as to
embrace lands not subject to sale or entry, and clearly
evince that the actual settler is the most favored of the entire class of purchasers." In the recent case of Ard v.
Brandon, 156 U. S. 537, 542, the court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Brewer (after referring to Shepley v. Cowan, 91
U. S.330, 338), said that the law deals tenderly with one
who, in good faith, goes upon the public lands with a view
of making a home thereon. If he does all that the statute
prescribes as a condition of acquiringrights, the law protects
him in those rights, and does not make their continued existence depend alone upon the question whether or no he
takes an appeal from an adverse decision of the officers
charged with the duty of acting upon his application."
The court, in that case, then referred with approval to the
observations above cited from Clements v. Warner, and proceeded: "There can be no question as to the good faith
of the defendant. He went upon the land with the view
of making it his home. He has occupied it ever since. He
did all that was in his power in the first instance to secure
the land as his homestead. That he failed was not his
,fault; it came through the wrongful action of one of the
officers of the Government." See also Northern Pacific
R. R..v. A macker, 175 U. S. 567.
In support of the contrary view much reliance is placed

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARtLN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

upon the general rule "that where there are divers acts
concurrent to make a conveyance, estate, or other thing,
the original act shall be preferred; and to this the other
acts shall have relation," Viner's Abridg. tit. Relation, 290;
or, as stated by Cruise (5 Real Prop. 510, 511), that "all
the several parts and ceremonies necessary to complete a
conveyance shall be taken together as one act, and operate
from the substantial part by relation." This rule may
well apply where the inquiry relates to rights asserted in
lands expressly granted in the place limits of a road; for,
such grants are in prsenti. So, perhaps, it might be applied where the contest, under a railroad grant, is between
the Government and its grantee, who was authorized to make
selections of lands within indemnity limits to supply losses
in place limits occurring before a specified time. As in
United States v. Anderson, 194 U. S. 394, 399, where the
court said: "But even though it be conceded, arguendo,
that the doctrine in question would allow rights to be acquired by third parties to the injury of the applicant after
the making of the selections and pending approval thereof
by the Government, it. does not follow that it controls the
controversy here presented. This results because on this
record the rights of third parties are not involved, since the
controversy concerns only the rights of the United States'
to retainas against its grantees the proceeds recovered by it
as the result of a trespass upon land after an application
for the selection of such land and pending action thereon
by the proper officers of the Government. Under these,
circumstances the case is one for the application of the fiction of relation, by which, in the interest of justice, a legal title is held to relate back to the initiatory step for the
acquisition of the land." But clearly the rule should not
be applied in a land-grant case in which the mere filing by
the railroad beneficiary at the outset of a list of selections
of indemnity lands does not affect the title of the United
States, and has not, in and of itself, any such efficacy as to

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HARLAN

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

become the basis of a right or interest in the particular
lands mentioned in such list; especially when, as here,
those lands, being Within indemnity limits, remain open,
according to all the authorities, to entry, occupancy and
-even purchase by homesteaders to the same extent they
would have been had no list of selections ever been filed.
In both apractical and legal sense the filing of such list was
nothing more than the expression of a desire or a request
that the Secretary of the Interior permit the company to have
certain indemnity lands to supply losses in the place limits.
The Secretary might unduly delay his decision, might
never act on such request and thereby, for an unreasonable .time, delay settlement on the public lands by those
who seek homes on them, and are always dealt tenderly
with by the United States. Before such request was acted
on in this case rights of the homesteader intervened and
became lawfully attached to the lands. If the homesteader
acquired a right in these indemnity lanols by entry, occupancy and purchase under the homestead laws, as he undoubtedly did, it is inconceivable that such right could,
under any proper application of the doctrine of relation,
be affected or overthrown by referring to an antecedent
act performed by a different person, but which, at the time
U was perfoumed, did not give any right or interest whatever in
the lands, and interposed no legal obstacle that would prevent homesteaders from entering, occupying or purchasing
them. In support of the Railroad Company's position
several cases are cited, to some of which we will refer.
The first of these cases, in point of time, is Campbell v.
Doe, 13 How. 244. But that case has no bearing on the
precise point under consideration. That was the case of
a contest under 'an act of Congress giving school lands to
townships, the selection to be made by the Secretary of
the Treasury. One Hamilton made, as he supposed, a
selection of certain lands under that act in conformity
with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. But his
VOL. ccxix-27

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1910.
HARLAN and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

selection was made while the lands were legally reserved
from sale, and he had prior notice of that fact. The land
was consequently not then open to selection, except pursuant

to the act of Congress and the regulations of the Secretary. After alluding to some minor views advanced in
the case, this court said: "But in whatever light this may
be viewed, we are clear that the Secretaty of the Treasury had the power, under the act of Congress, to make thc
selection; and his decision, declaring the entry of Hamilton
invalid, under the circumstances, conclusive." Referring
to the argument that what was done by Hamilton was
with approval of the Land Office, through whom the
Secretary executed the power conferred upon him, the
court said: "Yet where the Secretary has interposed and
decided the matter, as in the case under consideration, his
decision must be considered as the only one under the
law."
The opinion in Campbell v. Doe closes with the suggestion that "under the circumstances no right became
vested in him, Hamilton, by reason of his entry of the
land, which could be regarded or enforced by a court of
equity." The court did not refer, although counsel did,
to the rule about the relation of time as between two acts,
each of which is, in itself, efficacious to give some substantial
right and was performed by different persons, at different
times. It was adjudged in that case-and it was the only
point that need have been determined-that the court
could not go behind the decision of the Secretary of the
Treasury, and that -in no view of the case presented could
the relief asked be granted by a court of equity; whereas,
in the case now before us it must be admitted, in view of
the act of Congress and the caseg determining its scope
and effect, that when Jones occupied and entered, as well
as when he purchased the land in dispute, it was part of the
public domain, subject to the control of the United States
and open to homesteaders and preamptioners, under the

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U.S.

HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

laws of the United States, although there may have been
at the time, on file, a list of unapproved selections by the
Railroad Company.
Another case much relied on in this connection by the
appellants is Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330, 337. That
case arose under the act of Congress of September 4, 1841,
granting lands to certain States, including Missouri, for
purposes of internal improvement, saving such as were or
might be reserved from sale by any act- of Congress or
the proclamation of the President. The plaintiffs claimed
title under a patent issued to-one McPherson by the State,
and purporting to be for lands selected by the State-under the
above act of 1841. The defendants claimed title under a
patent issued by the United States to the heirs of one
Chartrand, based on an alleged preempiion right acquired
by a settlement of their ancestor. McPherson paid for
the lands in dispute and got a certificate showing such
fact. The selections authorized to be made were subject
to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. That
officer gave such approval. This court, referring, however,
to the facts and to certain acts of Congress, held that the
State could not legally select the lands in dispute as part of
those"granted by act of 1841, because they were "legally
reserved from sale," consequently nothing could be
claimed under the selection of McPherson. This view was
sufficient to dispose of that case. Nevertheless, the court
proceeds ,to consider another view which was held to be
fatal to the claim made under the patent issued to McPherson. "If," the court said, ,"the land outside of the
survey as retraced by Brown in 1834 could be deemed
public land, open to selection by the State of Missouri
from the time the survey was returned to the land office
in St. Louis, it was equally open from that date to settlement, and consequent preemption by settlers. The same
limitation which was imposed by law upon settlement was
imposed by law upon the selection of the State. In either

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

case the land must have been surveyed, and thus offered
for sale or settlement. The party who takes the initiatory
step in such cases, if followed up to patent, is deemed to
have acquired the better right as against others to the
premises. The patetit which is afterwards issued relates
back to the date of the initiatory act, and cuts off all intervening claimants. Thus the patent upon a State selection takes effect as of the time when the selection is
made and reported to the Land Office; and the patent upon
a preemption settlement takes effect from the time of
the settlement as disclosed in the 'declaratory statement or
proofs of the settler to the register of the local Land Office.
The action of the State and of the settler must, of course,
in some way be brought officially to the notice pf the officers of the Government having in their custody the records and other evidences of title- to the property of the
United States before their respective claims to priority of.
right can be recognized. But it was not intended by the
8th section of the Act of 1841, in authorizing the State to
make selections of land, to interfere with the operation of
the other provisions of that Act regulating the system of
settlement and preemption. The two modes of acquiring
title to land from the United States were not in conflict
with each other. Both were to have full operation, that one
controlling in a particular case under which the first initiatory step was had.

.

.

But whilst, according to

these decisions, no vested right as against the United
States is acquired until all the prerequisites for the acquisition of the title have been complied with, parties may, as
againsteach other, acquire a right to be preferred in the purchase or other acquisition of the land, when the United
States have determined to sell or donate the property. In
all such cases, the first in time in the commencement of
proceedings for the acquisition of the title, when the same
are regularly followed up, is deemed to be the first in
right. So in this case, Chartrand, the ancestor, by his

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HARLAN and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

previous settlement in 1835 upon the premises in controversy, and residence with his family, and application to
prove his settlement and enter the land, obtained a better
right to the premises, under the law then existing, than
that acquired by McPherson by his subsequent State selection in 1849. His right thus initiated could not be prejudiced by the refusal of the local officers to receive his
proofs upon the declaration that, the land was then reserved, if in point of fact the reservation had then ceased."
It thus appears that the general rule determining the
rights of parties under two different acts, performed at
different times, was referred to and applied in a case where
each act was of such a substantial character as in itself to
give a right, enforcible by law. In the case referred to the
selection by the State was wholly void, and could not be
made the basis of any right acquired in opposition to the
rights of the settler, although it was prior to the act performed by the settler. The "initiatory step" referred to
in Shepley v. Cowan was necessarily a step which, in itself,
gave some interest in the particular land involved. In the
present case, the subsequent act of the homesteader was
confessedly in accordance with law, gave him a substantial
interest in the land, and was not defeated by reason of
the prior act of the Railroad Company in merely filing its
list of selections. We say this for the reason that such filing, according to. the adjudged cases, could not be made the
basis of any right or interest in these particular lands.
Within the true meaning of the rule as to the relation of
time between two acts of a substantial character, performed at different times, the initiatory step was that
taken by Jones when he entered and purchased; for there
was no previous step which had in or of itself any efficacy*
whatever to confer a right in the lands or prevent him
from acquiring them.
Substantially, the same comments may be made about
the case of McCreery v. Haskell, 119 U. S.327, 330, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARL"

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

is also much relied on by the appellants. The dispute in
that case was about certain public lands which, from the
date of the grants, were equally open to selection by the
State and by homesteaders and pre~mptioners under an
act of Congress relating to land titles in California. By
its selection the State could acquire by the act of Congress
a right or interest in the lands; by settlement, the preemptioner could also acquire a right in them. That being the
case, this court said: "The land lyingoutside of this survey thus became, in the language of the act, subject to
the general land laws of the United States. It was open
to settlement with other public lands, and consequent
prefmption by settlers, and to selection by the State on
behalf of the school sections within the confirmed Mexican
grant. As between the settler and the State, the party
which first commenced the proceedings required to obtain the title, if followed up to the final act of the government for its transfer, is considered as being entitled to the
property. In such cases, the rule prevails that the first
in time is the first in right."
In the present case the Railroad Company, as we have
seen, acquired no interest whatever by merely requesting
that it have certain indemnity lands to supply losses in
place limits; whereas, in the California case, the prior act
to which the subsequent act was referred-the selection
by the State-would have given to the State a substantial
interest in the lands, prQvided the lands had been open
to selection by it at all. Proceeding on the basis that the
selection was valid, the state court held that such selection was a prior substantial, effective. act to which the
subsequent act may be referred under the rule stated in
former cases as to relation of time.
Further citation of authorities would seem to be unnecessary. In our opinion the filing by the Railroad Company of a list of lands, within indemnity limits, which it
desired to obtain in order to supply deficiencies in place

WEYERHAEUSER v. HOYT.
219 U. S.

HARLAN

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

limits, gave the company no interest in any particular
lands, and Jones had the right under the homestead laws
of the United States, qfter that list was on file,, and before
it was approved by the Secretary, to enter upon and occupy
the indemnity lands so specified, with the intention to
acquire them under the laws of the United States, and,
by such entry and occupancy, with such intention, acquire
a substantial interest or right in them which could not be
affected or impaired by the subsequent approval of such
list by the Secretary of the Interior; that the mere filing
of the list did not and could not, in itself, be made the
basis for any claim that woilldbe inconsistent with Jones'
legal rights as resulting from his entry Land occupancy
with the intention stated; consequently, the appellee
claiming under Jones had the better right. To make the
approval by the Secretary of the Interior relate back to a
date when the Railroad Company confessedly did not
have, and could not have acquired any, even an inchoate,
interest in these lands, and thus cut off and destroy the
intervening rights acquired by the homesteader before the
Secretary's approval, would be to make a new and dangerous application of the doctrine of relation discussed at
the bar. A subsequent act cannot properly be used to
give legal effect to a prior act, as of a time when such prior
act was performed, if the prior act had no efficacy whatever to confer an interest in the lands to which the two. acts
related. No adjudged case really holds to the contrary.
These views do no injury to the Railroad Company, for if
the homesteader is adjudged to have -the better right, the
company can, under the direction of the Secretary, go into
the whole body of indemnity lands and pick out other lands
to supply any loss in place limits; whereas, if the homesteader loses the 'land he has settled upon and occupied he
will lose the benefit of his improvements, and must abandon the place he had fixed upon as his home.
One other matter should be referred to. Across the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

219 U. 8,

certificate of purchase issued to Jones these words were
written: "This receipt is issued under the order of the
Secretary of the Interior, dated February 28th, 1898, subject to any claim the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
may have to the lands herein described." Of course, the
Secretary had no authority to do this, and his act had no
legal efficacy.' If the Railroad Company had rights superior to those acquired by Jones those rights could have
been protected despite the certificate issued to Jones. If
it had none, then the endorsement across the face of the
certificate is to be regarded simply as a warning to Jones
that he might have in the future a contest with the Railroad Company. The endorsement that Jones' purchase
was subject to any claim the company "may have,"
neither added nor took away rights that belonged at the
time to either the company or to Jones.
In our opinion the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be affirmed.

CAMPBELL v. WEYERHAEUSER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 12. Argued 4pril 27, 28, 1910.-Restored to docket for reargument
December 19, 1910.-Reargued January. 19, 20, 1911.-Decided February 20, 1911.

Decided on authority of Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, ante, p. 380.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn and Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with
whom Mr. Stiles W. Burr was on the brief, for appellants
in No. 24 and appelleeg in No. 12.

