OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT -OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF IDAHO.
No. 444. Argued. October 17, 18, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.
On an appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564,
34 Stat. 1246, this court can only look to the judgment which was
actually entered to determine what the action of the court below
was, and not to any stipulation between the parties.
The designation of a plea does not change its essential nature, and the
fact that the statute of limitations is designated as a plea in abatement and not a plea in bar, is untenable.
Even if this court has not jurisdiction under the act of March 2, 1907,
of an appeal by the United States from a judgment sustaining a
plea in abatement, it has jurisdiction if the plea sustained was in
fact one in bar and based solely on the statute of limitations.
United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S.601, followed to effect that a special
plea in bar, based on the statute of limitations, to an indictment for
conspiracy under ยง 5440, Rev. Stat., contailling allegations of continuance of conspiracy to the date of filing, is not permissible; that
defense must be made under the general issue.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler for the United
States.
Mr. C. T. Bundy, with whom Mr. James H. Hawley,
Mr. A. ,A. Fraser,Mr. N..H. Clapp, Mr. A. E. McCartney,
Mr. Joseph G. Dudley and Mr. Roy P. Wilcox were on the
brief, for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
On April 14, 1908, in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Idaho, an indictment was re-

UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

turned, which, in four counts, charged James T. Barber,
Sumner G. Moon, Frank Martin and Albert E. Palmer
with having violated the conspiracy section of the Revised Statutes, viz., ยง 5440. In the court below Frank
Martin was dismissed from the indictment. Palmer made
no appearance, presumably not'having been arrested.
The final judgment, to reverse which this writ of error
was sued out, is as follows:
"Now came the attorneys for the respective parties
herein and thereupon the demurrer to the third count in
the indictment herein is withdrawn by the defendants.
The demurrer to the second count of the indictment is
confessed by complainant, and it is ordered that the demurrer and plea in abatement to the first count of the
indictment be and is hereby overruled and denied. It is
further ordered that plea in abatement to the fourth count
of the indictment be and is hereby sustained. Thereupon counsel for the Government moved and asked that
the three first counts of the indictment in the aboveentitled action be nollied; thereupon said motion was
granted and the cause dismissed; all in accordance with
the direction of Hon. Robert S. Bean, district judge, who
heretofore heard and took under advisement said demurrer and plea in abatement."
As by this judgment the first, second and third counts
of the indictment were dismissed by the court at the request of the United States, only the action of the court
on the fourth count is open for consideration. It is for
the purpose of correcting such action that the United
States has prosecuted this writ, doing so upon the assumption that the judgment complained of is embraced
within the third class of judgments which it is provided
by the act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, may
be removed to this court by writ of error, viz., a judgment "sustaining a special plea in bar when the defendant has not been put in jeopardy."

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

It is at once to be observed that the text of the judgment purports to sustain a plea in abatement to the fourth
count of the indictment, and as the act of 1907 'contains
no provision authorizing the review of a judgment sustaining a plea in abatement, counsel f6r defendants in
error now urge that we are without jurisdiction, because
each of the pleas upon which the judgment dismissing
the indictment was based was filed as a plea in abatement and was argued as such, and the judgment "is an
abatement and dismissal of the pending cause only."
Briefly the state of the record on the subject is this.
By the fourth count of the indictment it was charged as
follows:
"And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, do further present that the said James T. Barber,
Sumner G. Moon, Albert E. Palmer, and Frank Martin,
in the State and District of Idaho, and within the jurisdiction of this court, heretofore, to wit, on the first day
of September, in the year nineteen hundred and one, and
at the time of the committing of the several overt acts
hereinafter in this indictment set forth, and continuously
at all times between said first day of September, in the
year nineteen hundred and one, and the day of the presenting and filing of this indictment, did unlawfully conspire, combine, confederate, and agree together and with
Frank Steunenberg, William Sweet, John Kinkaid, Louis
M. Pritchard, John I. Wells, Patrick Downs, and divers
other persons whose names are to the grand jurors unknown, knowingly, wickedly, falsely, and corruptly to defraud the United States of America out of the possession
and use of and title to divers large tracts of timber lands
of the United States situate in township six north, ranges
four, five, six, seven, and eight east of the Boise meridian,
township seven north, ranges four, five, six, seven, and
eight east of the Boise meridian, and township eight
north, range five east of the Boise meridian, in the county

UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Boise, in the State of Idaho, and within the Boise,
Idaho, land district of the United States, all of which
lands were then and there public lands of the United
States, with the intent and purp6 se unlawfully to obtain
the title to said lands for the use, benefit, and profit of
themselves and a certain corporation thereafter to be organized, to wit, the Barber Lumber Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Wisconsin
and doing business in the State of Idaho, with an office
and agent at the city of Boise in said State, and ultimately
to obtain the transfer of the title to said lands to said corporation.
The count next averred in substance that the object of
the conspiracy was, to be accomplished by unlawfully,
etc., procuring a large number of persons to apply for
and enter lands under the timber laws of the United
States, for the use and benefit of the conspirators, upon
the following understandings and agreements to be had
with the proposed applicants prior to and at the time of
the first application to enter the lands: a, ihat the title
to lands to be applied for when acquired should enure to
the use and benefit of the conspirators and the corporation; b, that the conspirators should select the land, furnish a description of the same to each applicant, prepare
all necessary papers in connection with each application
and represent the applicants before the Land Department;
and, c, that the conspirators should advance any money
needed to make a final payment, and without expense. to
the applicants should prepare the necessary conveyances
to vest a record title to the land acquired in the conspirators and the corporation. The remainder of the count
dealt with the overt acts charged to have been done in
furtherance of the conspiracy. Some of the overt acts
were alleged to have been committed upon dates more
than three years before and others upon dates within
three years of the filing of the indictment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Barber and Moon demurred to the count, on the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute an offense
against or under the laws of the United States. The
demurrer was argued, and at the close of the hearing
leave was given "to file plea in abatement and motion to
quash the indictment on account of duplicity." Each
defendant thereupon filed what was denominated a "plea
in abatement," which concluded with the prayer that
the particular defendant might be "dismissed and discharged

. . from the premises" as to such count.

.

The ground upon which it was insisted that the United
States ought not to further prosecute was stated to be
that the offense was barred "by the provisions of section 1044 of the Revised Statutes of the United States of
America, in this, that more than three years have elapsed
between the date of the commission of the alleged
crime

.

.

.

and the date of the finding of the said

indictment." Recitals were made in the plea tending to
support the claim that the particular defendant was not
a fugitive from justice at any time between the dates of
the commission of the offense alleged and the finding of
the indictment. The United States demurred to each
of the pleas, and argument was had thereon. Subsequently, the judgment which we have heretofore excerpted
was entered. On the same day the following stipulation
was signed by counsel and filed with the papers in the
case:
"The court, by order duly filed, having sustained the
demurrer and plea in abatement of the defendants James
T. Barber and Sumner G. Moon to the fourth count of
the indictment heretofore returned and filed in the aboveentitled action, it is hereby stipulated as follows:
"1st. That a nolle and order of dismissal shall, under
the consent of the court, be entered in the above-entitled
proceedings as to counts numbered one, two, and three
thereof.

UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"2nd. That the demurrer and plea in abatement of
the defendants to the fourth count of said indictment
shall be heard and determined together, and that the order or -ruling made on either shall be deemed to have been
made on both."
In support of the contention that the pleas of the statute of limitations filed below should be regarded in this
court, as they were designated below, as pleas in abatement, it is urged by counsel for defendants in error that
the pleas presented the following propositions:
"First, conceding that the indictment alleged the existence of a conspiracy within three years, there was no
allegation of any act within that time which could, by
an~yrpossible interpretation be said to have been done to
effectuate its purpose; and therefore the right to prosecute
had not accrued; and second, that as all acts therein alleged which could be said to effectuate the purpose of the
conspiracy were performed more than three years before
filing the indictment, the government should proceed no
further on this indictment."
The claim is then made "That in cases of conspiracy
a plea in abatement is the proper method of raising the
defense that the right to prosecute has not accrued, because no one of the conspirators has 'done an act to efthe object of the conspiracy.' "
fectuate
Following
this claim, it is urged that the defendants
have by reason of the stipulation heretofore referred to,
"the right to a formal judgment dismissing the action on
demurrer for the reason that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute an offense." Upon this assumption it
seems to be contended that the judgment should be regarded as entered on the demurrer, and as the judgment
does not show that the trial court decided any question in
passing on such demurrer which would give this court jurisdiction, the writ of error should be dismissed.
So far as the claim based upon the stipulation is con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

cerned, it is plainly without merit, since we can only look

to the judgment which was actually entered to determine
What was decided with respect to the fourth count, and
the court in that judgment expressly placed its decision
that the United States could not prosecute the defendatits upon the plea of the bar of limitations. The claim
that the pleas were not in bar but merely in abatement is
we think equally untenable. The designation of the respective pleas, as a plea in abatement, did not change their
essential nature. As said by counsel for the Government,
"the plea of the statute of limitation does, not question
the validity of the indictment, but is directed to the merits
of the case; and if fouid in favor of the defendant the
judgment is necessarily an acquittal of the defendant of
the charge, and not a mere abatement of the action; and
it has been universally classed, in both civil and criminal
procedure, as a plea in bar and not one in abatement."
The motion to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction is overrulea.
Many propositions have been urged' at bar in support
of 'the contention that the judgment complained of was
erroneous. We find it necessary, however, to consider
but one, wherein it is claimed that "a special plea in bar
-is not permissible in a criminal case, but the defense of
the statlite of limitations must be made under the general
issue." This contention, as applied to the -character of
case now under consideration, must be sustained, upon
the authority of the recent decision in United States v.
Kissel, 218 U. S. 601. "In thA*t case it was held that
where an indictment Charges a continuing conspiracy,
which is expressly alleged to have continued to the date
of the filing of the indictment, such allegation must be
denied under the general issue and not by a special plea,
and it was further decided that in reviewing, under the
act of 1907, the action of a trial court upon such A plea
"we are not concerned with the technical sufficiency or

HENDRIX v. UNITED STATES.

219 U.S.

Syllabus.

redundancy of the indictment, or even

....

with

any consideration of the nature of the overt acts alleged."
That the fourth count of the indictment in the case at
bar to which the pleas were directed charged a continuing
conspiracy is manifest. The charge is that the defendants "did unlawfully conspire," etc., "on thefirst day of
September, in the year nineteen hundred and one, and
at the time of the committing of the several overt acts
hereinafter in' this indictment set forth, and continuously
at all times between said first day of September, in the
year nineteen hundred and one, and date of the presenting and filing of this indictment." The indictment also
explicitly charges a continuing object of the conspiracy,
viz., the acquisition of public land within a large area of
country, which was necessarily to be obtained in small
parcels, and the ability to secure which in a great measure
was dependent upon the power of the conspirators from
time to time to procure persons willing to make the tiesired unlawful entries.
Judgment reversed.

HENDRIX v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 319.

Argued November 28, 29, 1910-Decided January 3, 1911.

The United States court at a particular place named is a sufficient
designation of the only court of the United States held at that place,
which has jurisdiction of the case; and an order transmitting a case
under the act .of June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30 Stat. 511, to the United
States court at Paris, Texas, is sufficient to transfer the case to the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texa4

and to give that court jurisdiction.

