CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

UNITED STATES v. PRESS PUBLISHING
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 541.

Argued October 24, 1910.-Decided January 3, 1911.

The effect of § 2 of the act of July 7, 1898, c. 576, 30 Stat. 717, was to
incorporate the criminal laws of the several States in force July 1,
1898, into the statute and make such criminal laws, to the extent of
such incorporation, laws of the United States and applicable to the
United States reservations within the States (Franklin v. United
States, 216 U. S. 559); but the history of the act demonstrates that
in its adoption, Congress sedulously considered the two-fold character of our constitutional government with the purpose of interfering as little as might be with the authority of the States, as to
the subject-matter of the statute, over territory situated, except
for the existence of a United States reservation, within state
jurisdiction.
The purpose and intent leading to the adoption of an act affords a
means for discerning the intent of a subsequent act relating to the
same subject and superseding the earlier act.
Proceedings in Congress in the course of adoption of a statute and
amending its form as originally proposed considered, in this case, in
determining the purpose and scope of the act and the intent of Congress in adopting it.
(1)
VOL. CCXIX-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

219 U. S.

The assimilative crimes act of 1898 cannot be used as a means for
frustrating the laws of the State, within which a reservation of the
United States is situated; and one accused of a crime consisting of
several elements treated as a unit by the state law so that there
can be but one trial and conviction thereunder cannot be indicted
and tried in the United States court for a single separate element
committed on such reservation, the other elements of the crime
being committed in other portions of the State.
As the law of New York results in the unity as one criminal act of the
publication of a libel and its circulation, allows but a single conviction for the combined act, and affords adequate means for punishing
such circulation on a reservation of the United States within that
State; resort cannot be had to the United States court, under § 2 of
the act of July 7, 1898, to punish the act of such circulation on the
basis that it is a separate and distinct offense from the publication.

ON March 4, 1909, upon the assumed authority of the
second section of an act of Congress approved July 7,
1898, c. 576, 30 Stat. 717, a grand jury in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New
York found a true bill against the Press Publishing Com-.
pany, charging the commission of alleged criminal libels,

set out in an indictment composed ofr fourteen counts.
The asserted libels were contained in six issues of The
World, a newspaper printed in the city of New York, of

which newspaper the defendant in error, a New York corporation, was publisher. The first seven counts dealt
with the publication of the libels by circulating copies of
the newspaper containing the same within the reservation

and military post in Orange County, N. Y., known as
West Point. The remaining counts dealt with the publication of each of the libels by the delivery of a copy of the

issue of The World containing the same to a post office
inspector at his office in the Post Office Building in the
city of- New York. Both West Point and the Post Office
Building were averred to be places within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States. Those who were alleged

in each count to have been criminally libeled were at the

UNITED STATES v. PRESS PUBLISHING CO.
219 U. S. "

3

Statement of the Case.

time of the publications the President of the United 'States,
the Secretary of War and certain private individuals. The
alleged libelous articles related to the purchase by the
United States of the Panama Canal. We need not state
the contents of the articles, since in the view taken of the
case we shall be only called upon to determine whether,
conceding the publications to have been libelous as charged
in the indictment, they constituted offenses against the
United States within the purview of the act of 1898.
The case went to trial upon a plea of not guilty. The
circulation of the newspapers containing the alleged libels
on the military reservation and their delivery to the inspector at the post office as charged in the indictment was
admitted by the defendant. The Government on the
other hand admitted that all of the issues of The World
newspaper referred to in the indictment were printed in
the defendant's printing establishment in the city of New
York and were circulated therefrom.
. At the close of the evidence introduced by the Government the defendant moved to quash the.indictment or to
instruct a verdict of acquittal, upon the following grounds:
"First. The court has no jurisdiction in this case because there is no statute of the United States authorizing
the prosecution.
"Second. The act of 1898 does not apply to the case as
disclosed by the evidence.
"Third. If construed so as to cover the acts shown by
-the evidence, the act is unconstitutional.
"Fourth. The offense, if any, was committed wholly
within the jurisdiction of the State of New York and was
punishable there.
"Fifth. The defendant being a corporation is incapable
of committing the offense charged in the indictment."
The court announced that it had concluded that the
indictment was not authorized by the act of 1898, and
therefore the motion to quash would be sustained. Be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

219 U. S.

fore, however, any formal entry to that effect was made,
in order to obviate any question of double jeopardy, upon
motion of the attorney for the United States a juror was
withdrawn, and thereafter a judgment was duly entered
quashing the indictment, it being expressly recited in the
judgment that it was based upon a construction of the
statute. To review the action of the trial court this writ
of error is prosecuted by the United States, under the authority of the act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.
Mr. James C. McReynolds, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom IThe Attorney General and
Mr. Stuart McNamara, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United States:
For history and interpretation of the assimilative statute act of July 7, 1898, see first Federal crimes act of
April 30, 1790; first assimilative statute of March 3, 1825,
4 Stat. 115, prepared by Justice Story, and construed in
United States v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141, to the effect that "the
laws of the State". were only those in force March 3, 1825;
second assimilative statute of April 5, 1866, c. 24, 14 Stat.
13; § 5391, Rev. Stat.; act of 1898, 30 Stat. 717, and of
March 4, 1909, c. 321, 35 Stat. 1145; see also Franklin v.
United States, 216 U. S. 559.
A post office is "a place" within the meaning of the act
of 1898. United States v. Andem, 158 Fed. Rep. 996;
United States v. Tucker, 122 Fed. Rep. 518; Sharon v. Hill,
24 Fed. Rep. 726, 731.
1
As to what constituted criminal libel under the New
York statutes in 1898, see New York Penal Code of 1881,
§§ 242-251. Except as thereby modified the general rule
of the common law as to the place where one may be prosecuted for libel prevails in New York.
The crime of libel does not consist in the mere composition of the article, or the physical production of the paper,
bu. in exposing or publishing the defamatory matter to

UNITED STATES v. PRESS PUBLISHING CO.
219 U. S.

5

Argument for the United States.

the community. 2 Roscoe, Crim. Ev. 890, 897; Wharton,
Crim. Law, 8th ed., 1618; 2 Bishop, Crim. Law, 6th ed.,
905, 949; Townsend, Slander and Libel, 3d ed., 144.
One who writes a libel in one county with intent to publish and who afterwards publishes it in another may be
indicted in both. 18 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 1119, and
cases cited; Commonwealth v. Blanding, 3 Pick. 304, approved in the PalliserCase, 136 U. S. 257, 266; and see In
re Cook, 49 Fed. Rep. 833; Armour Packing Co. v. United
States, 153 Fed. Rep. 1, 5; Commonwealth v. Macloon, 101
Massachusetts, 1; Commonwealth v. Pettes, 114 Massachusetts, 307, 311; In re Dana, 7 Ben. 1; In re Buell, 3
Dill. 116; Haskell v. Bailey, 25 U. S. App. 99; State v.
Kountz, 12 Mo. App. 511; Burton v. United States, 202
U. S. 344, 388.
The act of July 7, 1898, applies to a libel circulated in
West Point or the Post Office Building, although printed
outside. The same act or series of acts may constitute an
offense equally against the United States and the State,
subjecting the guilty party to punishment under the laws
of each government. Cross v. North Carolina, 132 U. S.
131, 139.
West Point and the Post Office Building are places over
which the United States has exclusive jurisdiction within
the terms of § 2 of the act of 1898. The Constitution gives
Congress plenary legislative. power over such places. Offenses committed therein are against the National sovereignty.
The court below cited no direct authority and there is
none to support its position. At different times Congress
has passed assimilative acts without attempting to except
libel from their general terms. The last was approved on
March 4, 1909. On the other hand, it has distinctly recognized that all crimes were intended to be included therein.
The defense that' because the offense charged may be
rw7ished in New York and therefore was not intended to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

219 U. S.

be included in the act of 1898 is without merit; the State
of New York cannot punish an offense committed at
West Point against the United States. Such offense must
be punished as here attempted, or be "dispunishable."
United States v. Davis, 5 Mason, 356.
Mr. Delancey Nicoll, with whom Mr. John D. Lindsay
and Mr. Raymond D. Thurber were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The Circuit Court properly entertained and passed
upon the motion to quash on the trial. 1 Bishop's New
Cr. Proc., § 759; Reg. v. Heane, 9 Cox, Cr. C. 433; Justice
v. State, 17 Indiana, 56; Bell v. Commonwealth, 8 Gratt.
600.
This is not a moot case, since, should the judgment of
the court below be reversed, the defendant may be placed
on trial again.
Even though the language of the act of July 7, 1898
were literally broad enough to cover the case at bar, it
should not be so construed. If there be any fair doubt
whether the statute embraces it, that doubt is to be resolved in favor of the accused. United States v. Clayton,
2 Dill. 219; United States v. Reese, 5 Dill. 405, 414; United
States v. Whittier, 5 Dill. 35; United States v. Sheldon, 2
Wheat. 119; United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76;
United States v. Garretson,42 Fed. Rep. 22, 25.
The general acquiescence of legal minds for nearly a
century in the negative of the proposition, now asserted

for the first time by the Government, forbids the interpretation of the statute in accordance with that proposi*tion. United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32.
A literal construction of the statute would lead to injustice, oppression and absurd consequences. United States
V. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482, 486.
According to the theory of the Government, the publication of a single newspaper article might constitute as many

UNITED STATES v. PRESS PUBIISHING CO.
219 U. S.

7

Argument for Defendant in Error.

distinct crimes as there are places under the jurisdiction
of the United States, in the whole country. It would thus
be possible to crush an owner or editor, under an intolerable burden of crime. Such a construction will not be put
upon the act if it can be avoided, for it contravenes the
fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that crime
is not divisible. Wharton, Crim. Law., 10th ed., § 27;
State v. Commissioners, 2 Murphy (N. C.), 371; Stinh v.
Cooper, 13 N. J. L. 361, 375.
The constitutional objection is also grave, for such a
law does, in substance, abridge the liberty of speech and of
the press,-that is, if to abridge such liberty means to so
curtail it that no owner or editor of a paper could with
safety freely discuss public affairs.
The construction contended for by the Government is
not only unnecessary -to remedy the definite evil aimed at
by Congress, but would create an evil which it was the intention of Congress to avoid. United States v. Palmer, 3
Wheat. 610, 630, 632; Holy Trinity Church v. United
States, 143 U. S.457.
As to history of the assimilative acts see 1 Life of
Joseph Story, Boston, 1851, pp. 244, 293, 297; The American Nation, Hart, 1819-1829; "Reaction toward State
Sovereignty ", 299; Annals of Congress, 17th Cong.,
2nd Sess. 1822-1823, 929; 1 Debates in Congress, Gales
& Seaton, 1824-1825, 157, including debate of Mr. Wickliffe, of Kentucky, Daniel Wesbter and Mr. Barbour.
The whole history and life of the country condemn the
construction asserted by the Government. This is shown
by the history of the sedition law of July 14, 1798, 1 Stat.
596. See McMaster's Hist. of People of U. S.397; Von
Holst, Const. Hist. of U. S. 142; 3 Wilson, Hist. of Am.
People, 167; 2.Curtis, Const. Hist. of U. S.3; 7 Jefferson's
Writings, Putnam ed., 267, 295, 309.
The offense charged in the indictment is not even within
the letter of the statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

219 U. S.

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
As we have stated, the indictment was based on the
act of July 7, 1898, 30 Stat. 717, § 2. The effect of the
act, as pointed out in Franklin v. United States, 216 U. S.
559, 568-569, was to incorporate the criminal laws of the
several States in force on July 1, 1898, into the statute
and to make such criminal laws to the extent of such incorporation laws of the United States. The text of the
second section of the act of 1898 is this:
"That when any offense is committed in any place,
jurisdiction over which has been retained by the United
States, or ceded to it by a State, or which has been purchased with the consent of a State for the erection of a
fort, magazine, arsenal, dockyard, or other needful building or structure, the punishment for which offense is not
provided for by any law of the United States, the person
committing such offense shall upon conviction in a Circuit. or District Court of the United States for the district in which the offense was committed, be liable to and
receive the same punishment as the laws of the State in
which such place is situated now provide for the like offense when committed within the jurisdiction of such
State, and the said courts are hereby vested with jurisdiction for. such purpose; and no subsequent repeal of any
such state law shall affect any such prosecution. (30 Stat.
717.)'"
As it is conceded that there is no statute of the United
States expressly defining and punishing the crime of criminal libel when committed on a United States reservation ,
etc., it follows that in order to determino the correctnesb
of the ruling of the court below~we are clled upon, a, to
accurately fix the extent to which, by the effect of the
act of 1898, the criminal laws of the, States were incorporated therein so as to authorize the punishment of crimes

UNITED STATES v. PRESS PUBLISHING CO.
219 U. S.

9

Opinion of the Court.

defined by such laws as offenses against the United States,
and, b, this being done to make an analysis of the criminal laws of the State of New York to ascertain whether
the particular offenses here charged were made punishable by those laws, and if so, whether by virtue of 'the act
of 1898 they constituted offenses against the laws of the
United States punishable in the courts of the United
States.
It is certain, on tne face of the quoted'section, that it
exclusively relates to offenses committed on United States
reservations, etc., which are "not provided for by any
law of the United States," and that as to such offenses
the state law, when they are by that law defined and punished, is adopted and made applicable. That is to say,
while the statute leaves no doubt where acts are done on
reservations which are expressly prohibited and punished
as crimes by a law of the United States, that law is dominant and controlling, yet, on the other hand, where no
law of the United States has expressly provided for the
punishment of Offenses committed on reservations, all
acts done on such reservations which 'are made criminal
by the laws of the several States are left to be punished
under the applicable state statutes. When these results
of the statute are borne in mind it becomes manifest that
Congress, in adopting it, sedulously considered the twofold character of our constitutional government, and had
in view the enlightened purpose, so far as the punishment
of crime was concerned, to interfere as little as might be
with the authority of the States on that subject over all
territory situated within their exterior boundaries, and
which hence would be subject to exclusive state jurisdiction but for the existence of a United States reservation.
In accomplishing these purposes it is apparent that the
statute, instead of fixing by its own terms the punishment for crimes committed on such reservations which
were not previously provided for by a !aw of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219.U..S.

States, adopted and wrote in the state law, with the single
difference that the offense, although punished as an offense
against the United States, was nevertheless- punishable
only in the way and to the extent that it would have been
punishable if the territory embraced by the reservation
remained subject to the jurisdiction of the State. While
this meaning, we think, stands out in bold relief from the
text of the section, the correctness of such meaningwill
be nevertheless readily demonstrated, even if, for the sake
of argument, it be conceded that the text is ambiguous.
We say this because a consideration of the genesis and
development of the legislation which the act of 1898 embodies will leave no doubt that the construction we have
given to the act enforces the exclusive and only purpose
intended to be accomplished by its adoption.
It is undoubted, as .pointed out in Franklin v. United
States, supra, that the forerunner of the act of 1898 was
the act of March 3, 1825 (ch. 65, 4 Stat. 115), since the
act of. 1898 is virtually a repetition of the act of 1825, except as to provisions plainly inserted merely for the purpose of bringing under the sway of the act United States
reservations which on account of the restrictive terms of
the act of 1825 were not embraced within the sphere of
its operations. The act of 1825 was entitled "An act
more effectually to provide for the punishment of certain
crimes against the United States and for other purposes."
Sections 1 and 2 of the act provided for the punishment
of arson when committed within any fort, dockyard and
other enumerated places, "the site whereof is ceded to,
and under the jurisdiction of, the United States." The
third section was as follows:
"SEc. 3. And be it further enacted, That if any offense
shall be committed in any of the places aforesaid, the
punishment of which offense is not especially provided for
by any law of the United States, such offense shall, upon
a conviction in any court of the United States having

UNITED STATES v. PRESS PUBLISHING CO.
219 U. S.

11

Opinion of the Court.

cognizance thereof, be liable to, and receive the same
punishment as the laws of the State in which such fort,
dockyard, navy-yard, arsenal, armory, or magazine, or
other place, ceded as aforesaid, is situated, provide for
the like offense when committed within the body of any
county of such State."
This section came under consideration in United States
v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141, and it was held that its provisions referred only to the laws of the States existing at the time
of the passage of the act, that is, those which were in
force on March 3, 1825. It came also to pass that in
considering the Words "whereof is ceded" in the first
section it was held that those words limited the operation
of the act to places which had been ceded to the United
States prior to the enactment of the act of 1825.. State v.
Barney, 5 Blatch. 294.
. By the second section of the act of April 5, 1866 (ch. 24,
14 Stat. 13), Congress substantially reenacted the third
section of the act of 1825, changing, however, its phraseology so as to cause its provisions to apply not only, as
did the act of 1825, to a place ceded to the United States,
but to "any place which has been or shall hereafter be
ceded." As thus adopted the act passed into the Revised
Statutes as § 5391 and continued in force until the passage of the act of 1898, which, it will be at once observed,
makes no substantial change concerning the fundamental
scope and purpose of the prior statute, since it simply enlarged the extent of its operation by causing the statute
not only to embrace reservations which had been ceded
to the United States, but those which had been carved
out of the public domain.
If then the purpose and intent which led to the enactment of the act of 1825 can be discovered and made plain
it must clearly result, as that act was but the precursor
of the act of 1898, that the light generated by the original
intent and purpose will afford an efficacious means for dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the'Court.

219 U. S.

cerning the intent and purpose of the act of 1898. The
basis of the third section of the act of 1825 was the eleventh section of a bill drawn by Mr. Justice Story, and of
such eleventh section its author said (Life of Justice Story,
Boston, 1851, vol. 1, p. 293):
"This is the most important section of the whole bill.
The criminal code of the United States is singularly defective and inefficient. . . . Few, very few, of the
practical crimes (if I may so say) are now punishable by
statutes,, and if the courts have no general common law
jurisdiction (which is a vexed question), they are wholly
dispunishable. The state courts have no jurisdiction of
crimes committed on the high seas, or in places ceded to
the United States. Rapes, arsons, batteries, and a host
of other crimes may in these places be now committed
with impunity. Suppose a conspiracy to commit treason
in any of these places, by civil persons, how can the crime
be punished? These are cases where the United States
have an exclusive local jurisdiction. And can it be less
fit that the Government should have power to protect
itself in all other places where it exercises a legitimate
authority? That Congress has power to provide for all
crimes against the United States is incontestible."
It is certain that the fundamental purpose thus contemplated by Mr. Justice Story was not overlooked or
intended to be departed from by the writer of the act of
1825. There can be no doubt on this subject, in view of
the fact that Mr. Webster, the author of that act, in referring to the third section of the bill by him drafted and
reported to Congress, (which section, as we have said, was
based upon the eleventh section of the bill drawn -by
Mr. Justice Story), said:
" 'As to the third section, it must be obvious that,
where the jurisdiction of a small place, containing only
a few hundreds of people (a navy yard, for instance), was
ceded' to the United States, some provision was required

.UNITED STATES v. PRESS PUBLISHING CO.
219 U. S.

13

Opinion of the Court.

for the punishment of offenses; and as, from the use to
which the place was to be put, some crimes were likely'
to be more frequently committed than others, the commitee had thought it sufficient to provide for these, and
then to leave the residue- to be punished by the laws of
the State in which the yard, &c., might be. He was persuaded that the people would not view it as any hardship
that the great class of minor offenses should continue to
be punished in the same manner as they had been before
the cession.' (Id. 338.)"
The demonstration of the purpose and scope of the
act of 1825 is, if possible, made clearer by an amendment
to which the act was subjected before it reached its final
legislative form. As originally reported the fourth section
provided for the punishment of certain designated crimes
by the law of the United States when committed "upon
the sea, or in any arm of the sea or in any river, haven,
creek, basin, or bay, within the admiralty and maritime
Jurisdiction of the United States." But this provision
was qualified in the passage of the bill, by the adoption
of an amendment which added the words, "and out of
the jurisdiction of any particular State." This amendiment as finally adopted was the result in a somewhat
modified form of a prior amendment offered by Mr. Wickliffe of Kentucky. Its meaning is not left to doubt, since
Mr. Wickliffe in urging the adoption of the amendment
expressly stated that it was "intended to prevent collisions between the authority, of the General and State
Governments..
He conceived the State Governments to be entirely competent to inquire into and
punish crimes committed within their own jurisdictions,
and that, as there was no necessity, there would be no
advantage, in giving the United States concurrent power
to do the same." Register of Debates in Congress, Gales
& Seaton, 1824-1825, vol. 1, p. 154; Id., pp. 157, 165-166,
166-167, 168, 335, 335h, 338.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Having fixed the meaning of the act of 1898, and, as
heretofore stated, there being no law of the United States.
specifically punishing the offense of criminal libel when
committed on a reservation, etc., of the United States,
it remains only to determine whether, applying the law
of the State of New York, in accordance with the act of
1898, there was power in the grand jury to present the
indictment here under consideration or authority in the
courts of the United States to entertain jurisdiction thereof
as charging a substantive and distinct offense under the
laws of the United States. That is to say, was the indictment found below consistent with the application of the
state law in accordance with the provisions of the act
of 1898?
The provisions of the peral code of New York on the
subject of criminal libel at the date mentioned were as
follows (Laws of New York, 1881, vol. 3, chap. 8):
"SEc. 243. A person who publishes a libel is guilty of
a misdemeanor.
'"SEC. 245. To sustain a charge of publishing a libel,
it is not necessary that the matter complained of should
have been seen by another. It is enough that the defendant knowingly displayed it, or parted with its immediate
custody, under circumstances which exposed it to be
seen or understood by another person than himself."
Sections 249 and 250, in substance, proviaed that where
a person libeled is a resident of the State the prosecution
shall be either in the county of such residence or the
county where the paper is published, and that where the
pcrson libeled is a non-resident the prosecution shall be
in the county in which the paper, on its face, purports to
be published, or;-if it does not so indicate, in any county
in .which. it was circulated:
"SEC. 251. A person cannot be indicted or tried for the
publication of the same libel, against •the same person, in
more than one .county."

UNITED STATES v. PRESS PUBLISHING CO.
219 U.S.

15

Opinion of the Court.

Section 138 of the Code of Criminal. Procedure (Laws
of New York, 1881, vol. 2, p. 43). cqntains similar pro-visions as to the place for the prosecution of a libel, and
the immunity from liability to prosecution in more than
one county. It was further provided:
"SEc. 139; .When an act charged as a crime is within
the jurisdiction of another state, territory or county, as
well as within the jurisdiction of this state, a conviction
or acquittal thereof in the former, is a bar, to a prosecution or indictment therefor in this state.
"SEc. 140. When a crime is within the jurisdiction of
two or more counties of this state, a conviction or acquittal thereof in one county is a bar to a prosecution or
indictment thereof in another."
In view of the unity between the act of composing and
the primary publication of a newspaper containing a libelous article within the State of New York, and of-subsequent publications or repetitions thereof by the publisher of the newspaper which are clearly the resultant
of the provisions of the laws of New York above quoted
and referred to, two propositions are, we think, plainly
established: First, that adequate means were afforded for
punishing the circulation of the libel on a United States
reservation by the state law and in the state courts without the necessity of resorting to the courts of the United
States for redress. Second, that resort could not be had
to the courts of the United States to punish the act of
publishing a newspaper libel by circulating a copy of the
newspaper on the reservation upon the theory that such
publication was an independent offense, separate and
distinct from the primary printing and publishing of the
libelous article within the State of New York, without
disregarding the laws of that State and frustrating the
plain purpose of such law, which was that there should
be but a single prosecution and conviction.
These propositions being true, it follows in the light

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

of the construction which We have given the act of 1898
that the court below was right in quashing the indictment
as not authorized by that act. No other conclusion we
think was possible, as the court could not have sustained
the indictment without giving to the statute a meaning
directly conflicting with the construction which we have
affixed to it. In other words, the court could not have
upheld the indictment without deciding that because the
statute provided that acts when committed on United
States reservations, which were not expressly made criminal by a law of the United States, might be prosecuted
and punished in accordance with the state law, therefore
a prosecution was authorized which was inconsistent with
that law and in disregard thereof. And, further, albeit
that Congress having regard for the autonomy of the
States had deemed it best not to treat reservations within
States as foreign to the States for the purpose of punishing crime unless expressly provided to the contrary, nevertheless the legislation enacted by Congress for this purpose
had destroyed the end contemplated, since that legislation
when rightly construed, while applying the state legislation to crimes committed on a reservation as if the territory
was not foreign but domestic, at the same time exacted that
the state law when thus applied should be enforced as if
the territory was in no respects for the purpose domestic,
but on the contrary was wholly foreign. The contradiction and confusion to which the contention thus reduces itself is too apparent to require anything but statement.
Indeed, we think the misconception just pointed out lies at
the basis of all the propositions so ably pressed at bar to
secute a reversal, since they all depend upon a construction of the act of 1898, which we hold to be wrong. Great
therefore as might otherwise be their potency with the
foundation.gone upon which they rest, all come to this, that
the statute sanctions that which it by necessary implication prohibits, and, moreover, destroys the great public

ATLANTIC, GULF &c. CO. v. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. 17
Syllabus.

219 U. S.

purpose which its adoption was intended to foster and protect.
The ruling which we now make does not of course extend to a subject which is not before us. It follows, therefore, that we do not now intimate that the rule which in
this case has controlled our decision would be applicable
to a case where an indictment was found in a court of the
United States for a crime which was wholly committed
on a reservation, disconnected with acts committed within
the Juirisdibction of the State, and where the prosecution
for such crime in the courts of the United States instead
of being in conflict with the applicable state law was in all
respects in harmony therewith.
Affirmed.

THE ATLANTIC, GULF AND PACIFIC COMPANY,
v. GOVERNMENT OF THE PHW,TpPINE ISLANDS.
FROM AND

.APPEAL

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF

THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 64.

Argued December 6, 1910.-Decided December 19, 1910.

A Government contract for building a bulkhead in Manila provided
that the contractor would be responsible for damages arising from
wave action or pressure of the revetment against the timber structure,
but that the Government would be responsible for break caused by
pressure of the mud fill. There was a break owing to pressure of the
mud fill and before it could be repaired there was a further damage
caused by a typhoon but which would not have happened had the
original break not existed. Held, as held by the courts below, that
the contractor must bear the loss caused by the typhoon.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of a contract
VOL. ccxix-2

