EX PARTE HARDING.
219 V. S.

Syllabus.

the reasons we have stated, we are constrained to hold
that these actions present no justiciable controversy
within the authority of the court, acting within the limitations of the Constitution under which it was created.
As Congress, in passing this act as a part of the plan involved, evidently intended to provide a review of the
judgment of the Court of Claims in this court, as the constitutionality of important legislation is concerned, we
think the act cannot be held to intend to confer jurisdiction on that court separately considered. Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 565; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463.
The judgments will be reversed and the cases remanded to
the Court of Claims, with directions to dismiss the petitions for want of jurisdiction.

EX PARTE HARDING, PETITIONER.
No.

-.

Original. Submitted December 12, 1910.-Decided February 20, 1911.

The general rule that a court, having jurisdiction over the subjectmatter and the parties, is competent to decide questions arising as

to its jurisdiction and that its decisions on such questions are not
open to collateral attack, applied in this case; and mandamus refused to compel the Circuit Court to remand a case in which it decided that it had jurisdiction on the issues of citizenship and
separable controversy.
There is nothing peculiar in an order of the Cirqit Court refusing
to remand which differentiates it from any other order or judgment
of a Federal Court concerning its jurisdiction.
In this case the exceptional rule that mandamus will lie to the Circuit
Court to correct an abuse of judicial discretion in retaining a case
over which it has not jurisdiction does not apply.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
'Argument for Petitioner.

219 U. S.

It is the duty of this court to reconcile decisions and, in order to enforce the correct doctrine, to determine which rest upon the right
principle and to overrule or qualify those conflicting therewith.
Conflicting decisions regarding issuing mandamus to the Circuit Court
to correct its decisions in regard to jurisdiction over cases removed
from the state court reviewed and harmonized.
In this case, Ex parte Hoard, 105 U. S. 578, and cases following it applied, as expressing the general principle involved; Virginia v.
Rives, 100 U. S. 313, and cases following it distinguished, as applicable only to exceptional instances not involved in this case; Ex
parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449; In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490, and In re
Winn, 213 U. S. 458, disapproved in part and qualified.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William J. Ammen for petitioner:
The original removal petition, whether considered alone

or in connection with the entire record, not only failed to
show a removable case, but affirmatively showed that the
case was not removable under the law, on the ground of
diverse citizenship. In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490; Ex paTte
Wisner, 203 U. S. 449; Southern Pacific Co. v. Burch, 152
Fed. Rep. 168; Goldberg &c. Co. v. German Ins.!Co., 152
Fed. Rep. 831; Yellow Aster Co. v. Crane Co., 150 Fed.
Rep. 580; Gillespie v. Pocahontas &c. Co., 160 Fed. Rep.
742; Blunt v. Southern Ry. Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 499; Boston
Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., 188 U. S. 632, 640; In re
Winn, 213 U. S. 464; McClellan v. McKane, 159 Fed. Rep.
165; Hooe v. Jamieson, 166 U. S. 395.
No separable controversy was pointed out in said original petition for removal, as required by the decisions.
Gibbs v. Crandall,120 U. S. 105, 108; Gold Washing Co. v.
Keyes, 96 U. S. 199; Newcastle v. Postal Co., 152 Fed. Rep.
572.
The claim of separable controversy between said Corn
Products Company, and Harding, is so absurd upon a
mere cursory reading of the bill of complaint that the
Circuit Court should not have considered the same; and

EX PARTE HARDING.
219 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

relief by mandamus should not be refused on the ground
that a decision of that question involved judicial discretion, although the exercise of, judicial discretion on such a
question might be required in a case where such question
appears to be reasonably disputable.
Even if such separable controversy existed, the citizenip of the alleged parties thereto was not such as to make
the case removable, under the law.
•The alleged removal was void upon the further ground
that the state cour, was not permitted to examine, and
consider, and-pass upon, the removal petition.
The order of the Circuit Court ordering the transcript
of record of state court filed in Circuit Court, and enjoining Harding from the further prosecution of his suit in the
state court, until the further order of the Circuit Court,
was void.
The so-called supplement filed 'in the Circuit Court was
,inauthorized and void, and did not and could not help out
he original removal petition fied in the state court.
Harding is not chargeable with laches. He has never
vaived his right to have said original motion to remand
allowed.
The Circuit Court had no power to allow the amendment to the removal petition changing the vital averments made in said original removal petition filed in the
state court.

Powers v. Chesapeake & 0. .1. R. Co., 169

U. S. 92, 101; Shane v. Butte &c. Co., 150 Fed. Rep 801;
Crehore v. Railway Co., 131 U. S. 240; Jackson v. Allen,
132 U. S. 27; Graves v. Corbin, 182 U. S. 572, 590; Martin's
Admr. v. Railroad Co., 151 U. S.' 673, 691, Car.son v. Dunham, 121 U. S. 421, 427; Fife. v. Whittell, 1'02 Fed. Rep.
537; Dalton v. Milwaukee Ins. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 876;
Stone v. South Carolina,117 U. S. 430; Caeronv. Hodges,
127 U. S. 322; Moon on Removal of Catises, § 165: Fitzgerald v. Missouri. Pacific Ry Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 812;
Macey Co. v. Macey, 135 Fed. Rep. 725, 729, 730: Santa

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Clara County v. Gotdy Machine Co., 159 Fed. Rep. 750;
Wallenburg v. Mis8ouri PacificRy. Co., 159 Fed. Rep. 217;
Healy v. McCormick, 157 Fed. Rep. 218; Holton v. Helvitia &c. Co., 163 Fed. Rep. 659; Kinney v. Columbia
As8n. Co., 191 U. S. 78; Murphy v. Gold Co., 98 Fed. Rep.
321.
The orders permitting petitioner to amend, and allowing such amendment to be filed, the said amendment so
filed, and all subsequent proceedings based thereon, were
wholly without power or jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
and void.
It clearly appearing. that Harding will be entitled to a
remand of his case after a tedious and expensive hearing
on the merits, -on appeal from whatever decree may be
then entered, this should be duly considered by this court,
as even the certainty of such ultimate remand does not
constitute an adequate remedy in the premises.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
By a motion'for leave to. file a petition for mandamus,
* George F. Harding seeks the reversal of the action of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, in takiug jurisdiction
over a cause as the result of a refusal to grant a request of
Harding to remand the case to a state court. The facts
shown on the face of the motion papers are these:
On October 19, 1907, George F. Harding, the petitioner,
alleging himself to be a resident of the State of California,
sued in an Illinois state court various corporations alleged
to be created by and citizens Qf the State of New Jersey
and fourteen individuals whose citizenship and residence
were not given. The suit. was brought by Harding as a
stockholder in the Corn Products Company, one of the
defendants, and the object of the suit was to annul an al-

EX PARTE HARDING.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

leged unlawful merger of that company and for relief in
respect of an asserted misappropriation of its assets. On
November 6, 1907, the Corn Products Company applied
to -remove to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, on the
ground that there was a separable controversy between it
and Harding. By separate petitions all the other defendants united in .the prayer for removal. The state court
not having acted on the petition for removal, the judge of
the United States court, upon the application of the Corn
Products Company, ordered the transcript of record from
the state court to be filed and the case to be docketed.
This being done, the Corn Products Company filed what
was styled an amendment and supplement to the petition
for removal, stating the residence and citizenship of the
individuals named as defendants in the original bill, four
of them being averred to be residents of Chicago, Illinois,
one of Pekin, Illinois, and the others citizens and residents
of States other than Illinois.
In December, 1907, Harding moved to remand to the
state court, in substance upon the ground that there was
no separable controversy and that the requisite diversity
of citizenship was not shown by the petition for removal,
and especially directed attention to the fact that at the
time of the commencement of the suit in the state court
he, Harding, was not a resident of the district, and that
none of the corporate defendants were such residents.
Prior to the bringing of the Harding suit a suit had been
brought in an Illinois state court by the Chicago Real Estate and Trust Company, an Illinois corporation and a
stockholder in the Corn Products Company, upon substantially the same grounds as those subsequently alleged
in the Harding suit, against the principal corporations and
individuals who were thereafter made defendants in the
Harding suit. This cause had been removed by the Corn
Pro"4icts Company into the Circuit Court of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

States for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, and on its removal, at the instance of the Corn Products Company the court had restrained the real estate
company, its officers, agents, attorneys, etc., from further
prosecuting the cause in the state court. Immediately
after the bringing of the Harding suit in the state court the
Corn Products Company applied to the Circuit Court, in
the real estate- company suit, to restrain Harding from
prosecuting his suit on the ground that the bringing of the
same was a Violation of the previous restraining order.
The court issued a temporary restraining order. Thereafter, as we have said, the Harding suit was removed on
the application of the Corn Products Company to the Circuit Court of the United States, and the motion to which
we have referred was' made by Harding to remand. That
motion to remand, however, in consequence of the restraining order, which had been made permanent, was not heard
until the summer of 1909, after the restraining order above
referred to had been dissolved by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 168 Fed. Rep. 658. Before the motion to remand,
however, was passed upon the. Circuit Court granted permission to the Corn Products Company to amend its
removal petition by alleging that at the time of the commencement by Harding of his suit and continuously thereafter he was a citizen of Illinois and a resident of Chicago in
that State. To this Harding objected on the ground that
the court was without power to allow anaamendment, and
that its jurisdiction was to be tested by the averments of
the original removal petition. The permitted amendment
having been filed, the motion to remand was denied.
Harding thereupon, reiterating his objection to the allowance of the amendment and to the jurisdiction of the court
to do other than remand the cause, traversed the averment
in the amended removal petition as to his Illinois citizenship and residence, and specially prayed "that there may
be a speedy hearing and a decision of such issue of citizen-

EX PARTE HARDING.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ship and a remand of this cause to the state court by the
order of this court,
. ." The request for hearing was
granted. A large amount of evidence was introduced on
such hearing, which extended over a period of more than
fifteen months, and the taxable costs, it is said, "ran up
into several thousands.of dollars."' Finally, on October 25,
1910, the issue was decided against Harding. 182 Fed.
Rep. 421. The court, finding from the proof that Harding
was, as alleged in the amended petition, a citizen and resident of the State of Illinois, expressly refused the prayer
for removal made by Harding in his answer to the amended
petition; in other words, the court reaffirmed and reiterated its previous action in refusing to remand the cause.
Whether these facts give such color of right to the contention that we have jurisdiction to review the action of the
trial court by the writ of mandamus as to lead us to be of
opinion that further argument at bar is necessary, and
therefore a rule to show cause should issue, is then the
question for decision.
The doctrine that a court which has general jurisdiction
over the subject-matter and the parties to a cause is competent to decide questions arising as to its jurisdiction, and
therefore that such decisions are not open to collateral
attack, has been so often expounded (see Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327, 337, and cases cited), and has
been so recently applied (Hine v. Morse, 219 U. S. 493),
that it may be taken as elementary and requiring no further reference to authority. Nor is there any substantial
foundation for the contention that this elementary doctrine has no application to decisions of courts of the United
States refusing to remand causes to state courts, since
there is nothing peculiar in an order refusing to remand
which differentiates it from any other order or judgment
of a court of the United States concerning its jurisdiction.
The importance of the subject which is involved in the
contrary assertion, the apparent conflict between certain
yOL. ccxx-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

decided cases dealing with the right to review by mandamus orders of Circuit Courts refusingto remand, and a long
and settled line of other cases relating to the same subject,
the confusibn and misapprehension which must result unless the conflict is reconciled or abated, and the duty to
remove obscurity, as far as it may be done, concerning the
review of questions of jurisdiction, all lead us to give the
subject a more extended examination than it would otherwise be-entitled to receive..
In Ex parte Hoard, 105 U. S. 578, the court was called
upon to consider whether the judgment of a Circuit Court
of the United States;' declining to remand a civil cause to
a state court from which it had beepa removed, was reviewable by the extraordinary process of mandamus. In refusing to exert'jurisdiction by mandamus and considering the
inherent nature of the powers of a Circuit Court, it was
declired that "Jurisdiction has been given to the-9ircuit
Court to determine whether the cause is one that ought to
be remanded," and it was also observed that "No case can
be found, however, in which a mandamus has been used
to compel a court to remand a cause after it has once refused a miotion to that effect." Calling attentioi to the
fact that the act of 1875, in § 5,, expressly gave an appeal to
or-a writ of error from this court for the review of orders of
Circuit Cour.ts remanding causes, without regard to the.
amount involved, the court said:' "The same remedy has
not been given' if a cause is retained. It rests with Congress
to determine whether a cause shall be reviewed or not.
If no power to review is given, the judgment of the court
having jurisdictibn to decide is final."
In In re James Pollitz, 206 U. S.323, the facts were
these: Pollitz, a citizen of the State of New York, sued
in the Supreme Court of that State the Wabash RailrQad
Company, a consolidated corporation existing under the
laws'of the States of Ohio, Michigan, Illinois and Missouri,
and a citizen of-the State of Ohio, and various other defend-

EX PARTE HARDING.
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ants, chiefly citizens and residents of the State. of New
York. The Wabash Company removed the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States, on the ground of a
separable controversy. A motion of Pollitz to remand
was denied. The controversy, was decided by this court
on the hearing of a rule, which was granted on the application of Pollitz for a writ of mandamus to direct the remanding of the cause. The court, after stating (p. 331)
the general rule that "mandamus cannot be issued to compel the court below to decide a matter before it in a particular way or to review its judicial action had in the exercise of legitimate jurisdiction, nor can the writ be used to
perform the office of an appeal or writ of error," refused to
take j tirisdiction and review the action of the court below,

and merefore declined to issue the writ.
Ex parte Nebraska, 209 U. S. 436, presented the following facts: In a suit against a railway.company, commenced
in a court of the State of Nebraska, the State, its attorney
general, the railway commission and the i .embers of the
commission individually were plaintiffs. The defendant
railway removed the cause to the United States court,
upon the ground that the State was not a proper or necessary party to the suit, and that the controversy was wholly
between citizens of different States. A motion to remand
having been denied by the Circuit Court, this court issued
a rule. to show cause why a mandamus should not be allowed ordering the remanding of the cause. Upon' the
hearing on the return to this rule the court declined to take
jurisdiction and review the action of the trial court. It
was said that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to pass
upon the questions raised by the motion to remand, and
if error was committed in the exercise of its judicial discretioii "the remedy is not by writ of mandamus, which
cannot be used to perform the office of an appeal or writ of
error." After declaring that "the applicable principles
have been laid down in innumerable cases," th court cited

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion -of the Court.

219 U. S.

Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wall'. 364,; Ex pare Loring, 94 U. S.
418; In re Rice, 155 U. S. 396; In re Atlantic City Railroad,
164 U. S. 633. The case of Pollitz was also cited and reviewed.
In Ex parte Gruetter, 217 U. S. 586, the doctrine of In re
Pollitz and Ex parte Nebraska was reaffirmed. The case
was this: An action-commenced by Gruetter in a state
court was removed into a Circuit Court of the United
States and Gruetter moved to remand. One ground of the
motion was that the case was not removable because it
was not an action of a civil nature, but was one to recover
penalties. It was also urged that the petition and record
did not show that the suit was sought to be removed to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district in
which either the plaintiff or the defendant resided. On return to a rule to show cause why a mandamus should not
be granted, the court declined to take jurisdiction of the
case, saying (p. 588):
"There was no controversy as to there being diversity
of citizenship. The defendant was a corporation of Kentucky, and plaintiff was a citizen of Tennessee. Inasmuch
as we are of opinion that the Circuit Court of the United
States had jurisdiction to determine the questions presented, we hold that mandamus will not lie. The final
order of the Circuit Court cannot be reviewed on this writ.
In re Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323."
It is patent from the review of the decided cases just
made that the contention 'that the order of the court below
refusing to remand the cause is susceptible of being here
reviewed by the extraordinary process of a writ of mandamus, in other words, that that writ may be used to subserve
the purpose of a writ of error or an appeal, is so completely
foreclosed as not to be open to contention, unless it be that
other cases which are relied upon as sustaining our jurisdiction to issue the writ of mandamus have either overruled the line of cases to which we, have referred, or have

EX PARTE HARDING.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

so qualified them as to cause them to be here inapplicable.
We therefore come to consider the cases upon which petitioner relies to ascertain whether they sustain either of
these views. The cases are Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449,
In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490, and In re Winn, 213 U. S. 458.
But to an elucidation of these cases it is necessary that the
briefest possible recurrence be had to two leading cases
which long preceded them, viz., Virginiav. Rives, 100 U. S.
313, and Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107.
In Virginia v. Rives a prosecution of persons accused of
murder was removed from a state court to a Circuit Court
of the United States. The latter court moreover, under a
writ of habeas corpus cum causa, took the prisoners from
the custody of the state authorities. The case in this court
arose upon an application by the Commonwealth of Virginia for a rule to show cause why the prisoners should not
be returned to the state court for trial. On hearing this
court took jurisdiction over the cause, issued the writ of
mandamus and directed the return of the accused. Speaking of the functions of the writ of mandamus, the court
said (p. 323): "It does not lie to control judicial discretion, except when that discretion has been abused; but it
is a remedy when the case is outside of the exercise of this
discretiun, and outside the jurisdiction of the court or officer to which or to whom the writ is addressed." It is obvious from the opinion of the court and the concurring
opinion that jurisdiction over the cause was taken because
of the extraordinary abuse of discretion disclosed by the
power attempted to be exerted, the confusion and disregard of constitutional limitations which the asserted power
implied, and because under the law as it then stood no
power would otherwise have existed to correct the wrongful assumption of jurisdiction by the Circuit Court.
In Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107, a person in the custody of the state authorities, charged with murder, was
released under a writ of habeas co;,pus issued by a district

OCTOBER TERM, i910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

judge. Subsequently the Circuit Court of the United
States took, by way of removal, jurisdiction over the prosecution. The Commonwealth of Virginia applied to this
court for a mandamus to remand the' prosecution and to
restore the accused to the custody of the State avthorities.
The court, reaffirming the doctrine of Virginia v. Rives,
pointed out that to wrongfully divest the State of its right
to prosecute in its own courts for crimes committed against
its authority was a gross abuse of discretion, which if not
corrected by mandamus could not be done in any other
form. A mandamus, to remand was issued. The court,
however, declined to review the order discharging on habeas corpus, on the ground that' on the face of the application for habeas corpus issues had been presented which the
judge had a right to decide, and if error was committed
there was a remedy by appeal.
In Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, mandamus was sought
to compel a Circuit Court of the United States to remand
a civil cause to the state court from which it had been removed and which the Circuit Court had refused to remand.
The case was one where, although there was diversity of
citizenship, neither of the parties resided in the particular
district to which the suit had been removed. This court
took jurisdiction. Reviewing the action of the court below, it was observed that the absence of residence within
the district of either of the parties -demonstrated the absolute want of authority of the Circuit Court over the cause,
and that even if the objection was susceptible of being
waived, a waiver by both parties was essential, and the
record did not disclose that there had been such waiver..
Considering the right to revise by mandamus the action of
the Circuit Court in refusing to remand, no reference whatever was made to the existence of statutory remedies to
correct the error found to have been committed, and no
au.thority was cited, it being simply observed: '.'Our conclusion is that the case should have been remanded, and,.

EX PARTE HARDING.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to proceed, that
mandamus is the propqr remedy."
In re Moore, 209. U. S. 490, was also a case of removal,
where there was diversity of citizenship but neither of the
parties resided in the. particular district. The Circuit
Court had refused to remand. Taking jurisdiction to review such action, on application for a writ of mandamus,
this court held that as there was diversity of citizenship
there was general jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, and
that the objection that neither party resided within the
district was a matter susceptible of being waived by the
parties and that such waiver had taken place. The observations in Ex parte Wisner to the contrary were expressly
disapproved. The action of the Circuit Court in refusing
to remand was consequently approved. No discussion
was had or authority referred to upon the question of the
right to review by mandamus the action of the Circuit
Court, the right to exert such authority having in effect
been assumed as the-result of the decision in the Wisner
Case.
In-In re Winn, 213 U. S. 458, an action commenced in a
tate court had been removed into a Circuit Court of the
United States, not upon diversity of citizenship, but upon
the ground that the case stated was one arising under the
laws of the United States. The Circuit Court denied a-motion to remand. Upon application for mandamus this
court took jurisdiction to review such action and directed
that the case be remanded, upon the ground that the cause
of action when rightly construed did not arise under any
provision of the Constitution or under any law of the
United States. Referring to some of the previous cases,
and manifestly noting an apparent conflict between them,
it was said that this court. had declined to exert jurisdiction by mandamus in Ex pare Nebraska and In re Pollitz,
because those cases but exemplified the exercise of judicial discretion by the Circuit Court as to a matter within

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

its jurisdiction, while the case in hand presented a question
of a want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, clearly apparent on the face of the record, and therefore that court
when it decided that -the cause of action alleged arose under a law of the United States, could not possibly have
exercised a discretion to decide a matter which was within
its jurisdiction.

Virginia v. Rivee and Virginia v. Paul

were approvingly cited, and it'
was said that in case of a
refusal to remand, "although the aggrieved party may
also be entitled to a writ of error or appeal," mandamus
may be resorted to. On this subject it was further observed: "Mandamus, it is true, never lies where the party
praying for it has another adequate remedy,

.

but

where, without any right, a court of the United States has
wrested from a state court the control of a suit pending in
it an appeal or writ of error, at the end of long'proceedings,
which must go for naught, is not an adequate remedy."
Comprehensively considering the two lines of cases, one
beginning with Lx pare Hoard, 105 U. S. 578, and ending
with Ex parte Gruetter, -217 U. S.586, and the other beginning with Virginiav. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, and ending with
In re Winn, 213 U. S.458, it; is to be conceded that they
are apparently in conflict, both as to the assertion of power
which one line upholds to view by mandamus the action of
the United States Circuit Court in refusing to remand and
the non-existence of such power which the other line of
cases expounds, and also as to much of the reasoning in the
opinions in some-of the vases. Thus the ruling in Ex pare
Hoard, that where in-a civil case statutory remedies by error or appeal are provided for the ultimate review of errors
committed by a court in determining its jurisdiction, such
statutory provisions are, in their nature, exclusive, and
therefore deprive of the right to resort to the remedy by
mandamus, is directly in conflict with the jurisdiction
which was exercised in Ex parte Wisner, In re Moore and
In re Winn, -as those cases were civil cases, and the right

EX PARTE HARDING.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to review the error, if any, committed by the Circuit Court
in refusing to remand was regulated by statute. So also
the statement, by way of reasoning, in the opinion in In
re Winn, to the effect that in case of a refusal to remand
"the remedy by mandamus is available, although the aggrieved-party may also be entitled to a writ of error or appeal," is in direct conflict with the reasoning upon which
the decision in Ex parte Hoard was based. The conflict
just stated becomes more manifest when the ruling in Virginia v. Paulis considered, since in that case the court declined by mandamus to review the action of the court below in taking one accused of crime by a writ of habeas
corpus from the custody of. the state authorities, on the
ground that prima facie there was jurisdiction to issue the
writ of habeas corpus, and a remedy by appeal existed to
review the action of the Circuit Court. Moreover, the
decision in In re Pollitz, that there was not power to review
the action of the court below iArefusing to remand because
the Circuit Court, in passing upon the question as to
whether, on the face of the papers, a separable controversy
was alleged decided a matter within.its jurisdiction, and
which involved the exercise of judicial discretion, cannot be
harmonized with the ruling in Ex parte Wisner and In re
Moore, that the action of a Circuit Court in refusing to remand could be reviewed by mandamus, because the court,
in deciding whether the parties had waived the right to be
sued in a particular district, had not been called upon to decide a matter within its jurisdiction involving the exercise
of judicial discretion. This conflict becomes more obvious
when the ruling in In re Winn and Ex parte Gruetter are
contrasted, the one deciding that the action of the Circuit
Court in refusing to remand because, from an analysis of
the pleadings it was found that a claim of Federal right
was presented, was reviewable by mandamus, since it was
plain, as a matter of law, that the eourt erred, and therefore
its decision involved no element of judicial discretion, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

the other deciding that the denial by a Circuit Court of a
motion to remand based upon the ground, among others,
that on the face of the papers the .suit was not removable,
because it was not of a civil nature, but was for a penalty,
was not reviewable by mandamus, because the decision of
such a question was within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, and therefore involved the exercise of iudicial discretion.
We must then either reconcile the cases or if this cannot
be done determine which line rests upon the right principle
and having so determined overrule or qualify the others
and apply and enforce the correct doctrine. This is the
case, since to do otherwise would serve only to add to the
seeming confusion and increase the uncertainty in the future as to a question which it is our plain, duty to make
free from uncertainty. Coming to the origin of the two
lines of cases it is manifest that it was not conceived that
there was conflict ,between them, since Virginia v. Rives
and "Exparte Hoard were practically contemporaneously
decided and were treated, the one as relating to an exceptional condition,. that is, an effort to remove a criminal
prosecution which if wrong was committed. no power otherwise to redress than by mandamus existed, and the other
but involved the application of the well-settled rule as to
civil cases concerning which the right to review by error
or appeal was generally regulated by statute. Following
down the two lines of cases it is equally manifest that it
was never conceived that they conflicted with each other,
because some of the cases were also practically contemporaneously decided without the suggestion that one was in
conflict with the other; indeed, the decisions in In re Moore
and Ex parte Nebraska were announced on the same day.
When the cases are closely analyzed, we think the cause of
the conflict between them becomes at once apparent. As
we have previously pointed out, no authority was referred
to in Ex parte Wisner sustaining the taking in that case of

EX PARTE HARDING.
219U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction to review by mandamus the ruling of the Circuit Court, although in the course of the opinion the statement was made with emphasis that the face of the record
disclosed an entire absence of jurisdiction in the court below. In the.opinion, however, in In re Pollitz the Wisner
case was referred to and in pointing out why it was not apposite and controlling it was observed that that case (the
Wisner) presented a total absence of jurisdiction, involving
no element of discretion, and Virginia v. Rives was cited,
manifestly as indicating the basic authority on which the
jurisdiction to review by mandamus had been exerted in
the Wisner case. Again, in In re Winn it is to be observed
that not only was Virginia v. Rives cited, but the cases of
Virginia'v. Paul and Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S. 1 (the
last of which also concerned a criminal prosecution in
which the doctrine of Virginia v. Rives had bo--.
plied), were also cited, evidently for the pu-pube ot pointing out the source from whence came the doctrine of the
right to review by mandamus under the facts presented.
Bearing these matters in mind it plainly results that the
conflict presented has arisen, not because of the announcement in any of the casesof any mistaken doctrine as to jurisdiction, or of any wrongful decision of any of the cases
on the merits, but has simply been occasioned, beginning
with Ex parte Wisner, from applying the exceptional rule
announced in Virginia v. Rives to cases not governed by
such exceptional rule but which fell under the general
principle laid down in Ex parte Hoard and the line of cases
which have followed it. Under these circumstances it becomes our plain duty,. while not questioning the general
doctrine announced in any of the cases, yet to disapprove
and qualify Ex parte Wisner, In re Moore and In re Winn
to the extent that those cases applied the exceptional rule
of Virginia v' Rives, and thereby obscured the broad distinction between the general doctrine announced in Ex
parte Hoard and the cases which have followed it and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. 8.

exception established by Virginia v. Rives and the cases
which have properly applied the doctrine of that case.
Our duty to take this course arises not only because of the
misconception which must otherwise continue to exist,
but also because it is to be observed that material portions
of the act of 1875, which were made the basisof the ruling
in Ex parte Hoard,are yet in force, and because the cogency
of the considerations arising frn this fact are greatly increased by the duty to give effect to the provisions of the
judiciary act of 1891 concerning the review of.final orders
and judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of the
United States.
As then our conclusion is that the case under consideration is not controlled by the ruling in Exparte Wisner or
kindred cases, but is governed by the general rule expressed in Ex part. Hoard and followed, in In re Pollitz
and Ex parte Nebraska, and, lastly, applied in Ex parte
Gruotter, it clearly results that the application for leave is
without merit, and
Leave to file is denfed.

WEYEI:J{AEUSER v. HOYT.
.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT, OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24.

Argued April 27, 28, 1910.-Restored to docket for reargument

December 19, 1910.-Reargued January 19, 20, 1911.-Decided February 20, 1911.

It was the purpose of Congress, as evidenced by the original Northern
Pacific Land Grant Act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, and the.
joint resolution of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 378, extending the in-

demnity limits, to confer substantial rights to the lands withirthe
indennity limits in lieu of those lost within place limits.
The right of the company to lieu lands lalfully embraced in selections
filed with the Secretary of the Interior excluded lands to which
rights of others had attached before the selection and also excluded

