OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

219 U. S.,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC TERMINAL COMPANY v.
IFTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION AND
YOUNG.

YOUNG v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL.
AIPPEALS FROM-THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Nos. 459, 460. Argued December 9, 1910.-Decided February 20, 1911.
'The case is not moot where interests 9 f a public character are asserted
by the Government under conditions that may be immediately repeated, merely because the particular order involved has expired.
United States v.Trans-Missouri Freight Assn., 166 U. S.290, 308.
The rule that this. court will only determine actual controversies, and
will dismiss if events havc transpired pending appeal which render
it. impossible to grant the appellant effectual relief, does not apply
to an appeal involving an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission merely because that order has expired. Such orders are
usually continuing and capable of repetition, and their consideration,
and the 'determination of the right of the Government and the
carriers tJ redress, should not be defeated on account of the shortness
of their term.
Th6 Interstate Commerce Commission .has jurisdiction to regulate
charges of a terminal company which is part of a railroad and
steamship system and operates terminals such. as those of the
Southern Pacific Terminal at Galveston, Texas.
Verbal declarations cannot alter facts; and although the different
parts of a system may be separate as regards their charrs, each
forms a link in the chain of transportation. One of the separate
links in a system controlled by a holding company such as the
Southern Pacific Company cannot escape regulation by the Commission, because designated as a wharfage company; its property
is necessarily employed in the transportation of interstate commerce.
All shippers must be treated alike; and, under the facts in this case; an
arrangement, involving the lease of a wharf at a stipulated rental,
between the shipper and a corporation whose wharves and terminal
facilities thereon form links in a chain of interstate transportation,
amounts to an unlawful or undue preference under the Interstate
Coinmerce Act, the Cqmrissioh having found the facilities amounted.

SQ. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 499
219 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to an absolute advantage to the favored shipper, and that similar
facilities could not be given to other shippers.
Where a means of interstate transportation is'used to give one shipper
an undue preference, the traffic comes under the jurisdiction of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Goods actually destined for export are necessarily in interstate, as
well as in foreign, commerce, when they actually start in the
course of transportation to another State or are delivered to a carrier for transportation, Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.577; this is the same
whether the goods are shipped on through bills of lading or on an
initial bill only to the terminal within the same State where they are
to be delivered to a carrier for the foreign destination
THIS is a bill in equity to enjoin an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring appellants to cease
and desist, on or before the first day of September, 1908
(subsequently postponed to November 15, 1908), and for
a period of not less than two years thereafter, from granting and giving undue preferences and advantages to one
E. H. Young, a shipper of cotton seed products at the port
of Galveston, Texas, through failure to exact from him
payment of wharfage charges for handling cotton seed
cake and meal over the wharves, docks and piers of appellants, while at the same time exacting such charges
from other shippers of cotton seed cake and meal, and
from giving and allowing him or any other person whomsoever, for his exclusive use, space on the wharves of ap-.
pellants at Galveston for use in the storage and handling
of cotton seed cake and meal, while contemporaneously
refusing and denying similar privileges to other shippers
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions.
Young was not a formal party before the Interstate
Commerce Commission. However, he was mad a respondent in this suit, and filed an answer and cross bill.
The Commission demurred to both bill and cross bill, and,
the demurrer betng overruled, answered.
On final hearing the case was submitted upon an agreed
statement of facts, and both bills were dismissed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

219 U. S.

The most. important facts we set out below and in the
opinion. We refer to the report of the Interstate Commerce Commission for further details.
The Republic of Mexico conveyed to one Menard the
property upon which the wharves of the Terminal Company are situated. Menard conveyed the property to the
president and directors of the Galveston City Company,
who conveyed it to Collis P. Huntington for the sum of
$200,000, and it is recited in the deed to him that it "is
made upon the further Express Covenant and condition
as follows: . . . when through and by means of such
acts of Congress, act of the legislature, and ordinance and
conveyance from the city of Galveston, if any, as may be
required for the purpose
,..the
right has been
secured to the said Collis P. Huntington, or his heirs or
assigns, to construct piers, as he or they may from time to
time determine,
. .
then and in that event the said
Collis P. Huntington, his heirs or assigns, will within six
months thereof commence the construction of terminal
facilities upon the property . . . for the use of what
are commonly called the Southern Pacific Railroad and
Steamship Systems."
The city of Galveston, on the fourth of February, 1899,
passed an ordinance which recited the conditions of Huntington's purchase to be as above stated, and that it was
greatly to the interest of the city that the work contemplated by him should be performed, and that for the
proper utility of the property no streets should be opened
through or across it, and it was ordained that streets,
avenues or alleys, if any, theretofore opened, laid out or in
any manner designated upon the property be perpetually
abandoned, discontinued and closed. And Huntington,
his heirs and assigns, were granted the right perpetually
to construct and maintain piers as he or they might from
time to time determine, "and to maintain upon the property terminal facilities for the use of what are commonly

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 501
219 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

called the Southern Pacific Railroad and Steamship Systems, their successors or assigns." It was provided that if
Huntington should "charge wharfage for the use of such
piers and other facilities upon said property, except so far
as wharf service" might be covered by the freight rate, all
such wharfage should be subject to the regulation of the
railroad commission of Texas. And it was recited that it
was greatly for the public interest that the property
"should be developed for shipping and transportation
purposes, and that the shipping facilities of the port of
Galveston should be thereby improved and enlarged in
order to better accommodate the commerce of the port
and State.

:.

.

The ordinance was ratified by an act of the legislature
approved May 1, 1899. The act set out the ordinance in
full and relinquished to Huntington the title and claim of
the State to the propei ty uppn the conditions' expressed in
the ordinance and, in addition to subjecting the wharfage
charges to regulation by the railroad commission, required
an annual report to that body. And it was provided
"that the system of railroad tracks" which might be
constructed by Huntington on the property should connect with the track of any railroad company which might
be built to the property, at a place designated; and,
further, that there should be no consolidation of the
property, or the stock or franchise of any corporation
which might own or control the same, with the Galveston
Wharf Company or any other wharf company by which
the "wharf or other terminal charges should be fixed,"
and that "no charter formed for the use, operation and
management of the property" should be granted without
containing the section providing as above.
Huntington performed the conditions expressed in the
conveyance and in the ordinance and the act of the legislature.
The Southern Pacific Terminal Company is a Texas

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Statement of the Case.

219 U.,S,

corporation, organized in 1901 to construct and maintain
wharves and docks for, the accommodation of all kinds of
vessels, "and to avail of, use and enjoy the properties,
rights, privileges and franchises granted and described
and referred to in the act of the legislature of the State of
Texas of May 1, 1899, ratifying the ordinance of the city
of Galveston, and to construct and maintain upon the
property terminal facilities for the use of what are commonly called the Southern Pacific Railroad and Steamship Systems."
At the time of the incorporation of the Terminal Company, the following were commonly referred to as the
Southern Pacific Railroad and Steamship Systems: the
line of steamships owned. by the Southern Pacific Coinpany, running from New York to Galveston and New Orleans, and also running from and between the latter city
and Havana; Morgan's Louisiana and Texas Railroad and
Steamship Company; the Louisiana Western Railroad,
which leads from New Orleans to the Sabine River; the
Texas and New Orleans Railroad, leading from that river
to the city of Houston; the Galveston, Harrisburg and
S&n Antonio Railway, and the railroads in which the
Southern Pacific Company owns stock, extending from
the connection of the latter in El Paso at the Rio Grande
River to San Francisco. Each of the railways was incorporated as a separate and distinct railway and has its
own officers and board of directors, but the. Southern
Pacific Company. owns ninety-nine per cent of their stock
and the same per cent of the stock of the Terminal Company. The two latter companies have the same president,:
and the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railw y
Company and the Terminal Company have the same
general manager.
Import and export traffic passing through Galveston
passes bver the wharves of the Terminal Company, and .the
only track facilities for such traffic are those owned by the

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 503
219 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Terminal Company on its own lands. And the Galveston,
Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway is the only railway
having physical connection with the tracks of the Terminal
Company, and it does all of the switching to and from the.
tracks of the Terminal Comparky, charging $1.75 per car.
The latter company receives a trackage charge of 50 cents
per car.
The Terminal Company owns no cars or locomotives
and issues'n0 bills of lading. It owns no stock in any of the
railroads cr corporations in which the Southern Pacific
owns stock. It carries on a wharfage business and publishes a schedule of charges for such business, which, however, is not filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, its charge being twenty cents per tdn on cotton
seed meal and cake passing over its docks, and is shown
as wharfage charge in the tariffs of the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company and all other
raiiways entering Galveston. Such tariffs do not show
that any exception is made as to the docks occupied by
E. H. Young as hereinafter shown, but as a fact the
wharfage charge is n6t imposed by the Terminal Company
on the cotton seed meal and cake handled over the dock
of E. H. Young other than as the same may be included
inthe general lease or contract price fixed as hereinafte
indicated.
The Terminal Company was a party to numerous circulars issued by the-6outhern Pacific Companies, known
.as the "Sunset Route," so termed, principally for advertising purposes. The circular of May 24, 1907, shows
terminal 'charges (other than storage and switching). At
the port of Galveston the circulars show a charge of one.
cent per 100 pounds on cotton seed cake -andmeal.
The Terminal Compahy has on its property two piers,
known as pier "A" and pier "B," and has erected on
them all facilities for handling imported and exported
freight, and all freight which nay come to or pask over its

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Statement of the Case.

219 U. S.

wharves, and it has abundant land under water upon
which to erect other piers if they should become necessary.
It charges a fixed wharfage, for all freight passi g over
its piers to or from vessels berthed thereat. The Galveston
Wharf Company affords similar public wharfage facilities
at the port of Galveston, having a number of piers. If the
facilities of the Galveston Wharf Company should be destroyed .those of the Terminal Company would become
inadequate for handling the import and export and coastwise business. Ships to and from foreign ports, and
coastwise ships other than those of the Southern Pacific
Company, berth at piers "A" and "B," and there idceive
and deliver freight, and at these piers the Terminal Company carries on its general wharfage business.
In the building of pier "B" it was necessary to dredge
a slip west of it, where ships could berth, and in order that
the soil, through the action of storm and wave, should
not drift into the slip, a bulkhead was built. To the westward of'the slip the lands of the Terminal Company were,
lying idle and useless, they not-being needed by it, and in.
pursuance of negotiations with Young. the company pro-.
ceeded to construct a pier, known as pier "C," for the use
of Young, and to erect thereon a warehouse, shed and
platform for his use, the original construction and subsequent enlargement of which cost the company about
$65,000. At this time the -pier is 300 feet wide at its
widest part and about 1,400 feet in length.
The negotiations terminated in a lease under which
Young is to pay the Terminal Company a yearly rental of
15,000, payable monthly from the first day of November, 1906. And he agrees that he will route all shipments
of cotton seed and cotton seed products purchased or
shipped by him "over the lines of said Terminal Company
and its connections, according to the instructions of said
Terminal Company from time to time," and that he will
insist upon and ,enforce such routing, except where the

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM.- COMM. 505.
219 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

enforcement will prevent him from purchasing such
products or from obtaining shipments which will be ready
to move immediately and for which cars cannot be procured for the routing required. It is provided, however,
that Young shall not be bound by these provisions if the
rates be not. equal to or lower than those of other competing lines or the service be not as adequate, but notice
is to be given of such lower rates and service and an option to meet them.
The business of Young is that of a merchant and manufacturer, engaged in buying, selling and converting cotton
seed cake and meal for his own account. lie took possession of pier "C" and the improvements erected thereon
by the Terminal Company under his contract with the
latter company, paying the price stipulated in the contract, and has placed thereon cake, sacking and grinding
machines, representing an investment of $50,000. Young's
business consists in buying cotton seed cake in the interior, shipping it to himself by carloads at pier iC,"
there grinding it into meal, sacking it and loading it into
steamships berthed at pier "C" for export.
All cotton seed meal cake passing over piers "A" and
"B" pays a wharfage of 20 cents per short ton, Young
pays no wharfage or storage charge other than as the same
may be included in the rental of $15,000 per year. If any
exporter handles cotton seed meal or cake over pier 'C"
the wharfage of 20 cents per ton is paid by him to Young.
Young has certain advantages by reason of his contract with the Terminal Company, which are enumerated
in the agreed statement of facts and the result of which is
stated as follows: "He makes a sum equal to 30 or 40
cents per ton more than he would receive if he handled
his export product under methods in existence before he
established his plant on pier 'C' and adopted the method
of business he follows. This 30 to 40 cents per ton is in
addition to the ordinary buying and selling profit." He

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
219 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

at times pays more for cotton seed cake than his competitors can afford to pay, and at times he can undersell
them in European markets, and since he commenced busi,ness some of the exporters who were engaged in business
when he commenced have ceased exporting. A comparison of his business with that of all other exporters of cotton seed cake shows that from September 1, 1906, to
September 1, 1907, he exported 105,000 tons of cotton
seed cake and about the same amount of cotton seed meal;
they, 50,000 tons of both products.
"Some of the cotton seed cake producers at interior
mills in the State complain that Young is able to dominate
the Texas market, and that his, method of conducting
business at Galveston enables him to command the
foreign trade and may become a detriment to the cotton
seed cake and meal industry, 'in that Young might acquire a monopoly. Others entertain a cntrary opinion.
They all .agree that if there' was a general establishment
of plants in Galveston, so tiatk a monopoly could not be
acquired, it would be of great benefit to the cotton seed
industry.
*

*

*

.s*

*

*$

*

*

"On'the present constructed docks of the Galveston
Wharf Company and the Terminal Company, with the
structures as now located- thereon" there is not space
enough to furnish all exporters doing business at Gal.
veston with space for erecting machinery and handling
export business in the same manner as is done by Young."
This proceeding was instituted September 11, 1907,
by Carl Eichenberg, an exporter of cotton seed and its
products from the port of Galveston, by .fling'liis complaint or -petition before the Interstate Commerce Corn-.
mission against the Southern Pacific Company and the
Terminal Company, complaining that the companies, by
'the arrangement with Young, were violating § 3 of the act
to regulate commerce, by giving him an undue and un-

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 507
219 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

reasonable. preference and advantage over his competitors.
. By order of the Commission the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company and other railroad cdmpanies entering Galveston were made parties
defendant.
Answers were filed and full hearing was had by the
Commission, which on June 24, 1908, made its report and
order.
No rehearing was asked by defendantbefore the Interstate Commerce Commission. Young was not made a
party to the proceedings before the Commission, but he
appeared and testified as a witness for the Terminal Com-,
pany, and his counsel was present at the hearing when the
testimony was taken and engaged in the examination of
witnesses. Young was also present when the case was
argued and submitted.
Mr. Maxwell Evart&, with, whom Mr. F. C. Dillard and
Mr. H. M. Garwood were on the brief, for appellants:
The Interstate Commerce Commission cannot deny to
a wharf company, chartered under the laws of the State
of Texas, the power to lease or convey real estate which it
owns in fee simple and its title to which has been sustained. See Galveston .v. Menard, 23 Texas, 408; Texas v.
Galveston, 38 Texas, 13; Galveston Wharf Co; v. Galveston,
63 Texas, 14; Galveston City Co. v' Galveston, 56 Texas,
486.
The supposition of the Interstate Commerce Commission that the title to the property was acquired'by the
ordinance of the city of Galveston and the special act of
the legislature approving the same is not correct. The
contract between the Terminal Company and Young is
not in violation of the terms of the grant. The owner of
property abutting upon a navigable stream can devote it
to other purposes than that of a public wharf. L. & N.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

219 U. S.

R. R. Co. v. West Coast Co., 198 U. S. 483" Atchison &c.
Ry. Co. v. D. & N. 0. R. R. Co., 110 U. S. 667; Wemns
Steamboat Co. v. People's Steamboat Co., 214 U. S.345.
Although interstate commerce may pass over a wharf,
that wharf may be strictly a private wharf, and the owner
does not become a common carrier subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The
right to erect a landing on a navigable stream ha' its
foundation in the ownership of the land, and when
erected by an individual or corporation at its own expense, such landing is private property. Leverich v.
Mayor of Mobile, 110 Fed. Rep. 170; Compton v. Hankins,
90 Alabama, 411; O'Neill v. Annett, 27 N. J. L. 290;
Woodruff v Havemeyer, 106 N. Y. 129.
Even if the Terminal Company were a common carrier,
and if the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission were unquestioned, it nevertheless has the right
to sell 6r convey unused portions of its property which it
owns in fee simple. Calcieu Lumber Co. v. Harris 77
Texas, 18; A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. D. & N. 0. R. R. Co.,
110 U. S. 667, 682; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska,
164 U. S.403.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
which forbids a-wharf company from using, by way of
lease, its property for warehouse and manufacturing purposes, effectually confiscates private rights. Central
Stock Yards Co. v. L. & N. Ry. Co., 192 U. S.568; United
States &c. v. Oregon R. R. & Navigation Co., 159 Fed.
Rep.-975.
The Southern Pacific Terminal Company is not a common carrier and is not subject to the jurisdiction of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. It does not fall under
cases where, for the purpose of evading laws criminal in
their character, holding companies have been organized
as a part of what is in reality a conspiracy to evade the
law, as was the case in Northern Securities Co. v. United

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 509
219 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

States, 193 U. S. 197. By its charter it is authorized to
purchase stocks and other classes of securities. The mere
fact that it also owns the stock of a common carrier
cannot operate to consolidate and make a corporation
a wharf company and a railroad company, any more than
it could turn a corporation into a banking corporation
and a railway corporation, fhe stock of which it chanced
to buy in the open market. Pullman's Palace Car Co. v.
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 115 U. S. 587; Peterson v. C.,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 205 U. S.364; United States v. Del. &
Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366; White v. Pecos L. & W. Co.,
18 Tex. Civ. App. 634; Exchange Bank v. Macon Construction Co., 97 Georgia, 1; A., T. & S. F. R. R. Co. v.
Cochran, 43 Kansas, 225.
The ownership of the stock of the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company and the Terminal Company does not in any manner whatsoever effect
an amalgamation of these companies in any legal sense.
Each has its own separate corporate organization, and is
absolutely independent of the other. In no case has the
Interstate Commerce Commission undertaken to stretch
its jurisdiction to this extent. Its own decisions are directly against such, an assumption of authority. Cattle
Raisers' Assn. v. Ft. Worth & Denver Ry. Co., 7 I. C. C.
Rep. 513; Kentucky & Indiana Bridge Co. v. L. & N.
R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 567; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock
Yards Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 839.
The lease contract held to be unlawful does not, under
the facts proven, constitute an unlawful or undue preference under the Interstate Commerce Act. Young by
reason of prompt methods adopted for unloading his
traffic, and by reason of the warehousing facilities with
which he has provided himself, is able to unload the
product within the ten days, and hence does not incur
the penalties of demurrage charges; not, however, because
of any special privilege but because he promptly unloads

OCTOBER' TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee.

219 U. S.

his products. The record discloses no fact which would
justify the conclusion that any party has been subjected to
any undue or unfair advantage by reason of this lease contract. A common carrier has the right to lease or sell
property which it owns in fee for the erection of warehouses, elevators, etc., and it is so universal a business
method all over the United States that the court may
take judicial knowledge thereof. The decision of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in this case will revolutionize industrial methods in this country. Stock Yards
Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 35; Ilwaco Ry. Co.
v. Oregon Short Line & U. N. Ry. Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 673.
The order of the Commission transcends .its jurisdiction, ii that it regulates comrmerce purely 'state and
intrastate, and also purely foreign commerce, neither of
which is subject to its authority. G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co.
v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; Augusta Brokerage Co. v. Central
of Georgia Ry. Co., 5 Ga. App. Rep. 187; Cosmopolitan
Shipping Co. v. Hamburg-American Packet Co., 13 I. C. C.
Rep. 266, 279. The greater part of the traffic is confined
to products which move from a point within the State of
Texas to a point within the same State upon a local bill.
This is intrastate and domestic traffic. When it leaves
the warehouse of Young it goes without the interposition
of any common carrier into the hold of a ship direct to
Europe. Over this transit the Interstate Commerce
Commission has no jurisdiction.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis and Mr. Luther M. Walter for appellee, the Interstate Commerce Commission:
The appeal should be dismissed because the Commission's order has expired and the case is now moot. Mills
v. Green, 159 U. S. 651; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling & Bcl.
Bridge Co., 18 How. 421; San Mateo County v. Southern
Pac. Co., 116 U. S. 138; Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547;
Californiav. San Pablo & Tulare R. R. Co., 149 U. S. 308;

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 511
219 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

New Orleans Flour Inspectors v. Glover, 160 U. S. 170;
Dinsmore v. Southern Exp. Co. and Georgia R. R. Comm.,
183 U. S. 115; Jones v; Mvontague, 194 U. S. 147; Richardson v. McChesney, 218 U. S. 487.
On the merits this case involves three propositions:
1. Whether the Southern Pacific Terminal Company is
subject to the act to regulate interstate commerce;
2. Whether the order of the Commission relating to shipments originating both within'and without the State of
Texas but intended for trans-shipment abroad is a regulation within the jurisdiction of the Comrhission, and
3. Whether the contract with Young constitutes an undue preference within the meaning of the act to -regulate
commerce.
The Terminal Company is subject to the act to regulate codimerce because it is engaged in the business of
furnishing facilities for the Southern Pacific Railroad and
-Steamship System and its terminal charges are included
in the tariffs published by the railroads with. which it
connects and for which it furnishes terminals. Any fair
construction of the Interstate Commerce Act would lead
to the conclusion that the Terminal Company is within
the terms of the act which by its express language applies
to terminal facilities of every, kind used or necessary in
the transportation or delivery of property- If termifial
facilities such as those maintained by the Sbuthern!Pacific Terminal Company are not included within the
terms of the act then evasion of the provisions of the act
so far as they relate to any terminal facilities is possible
by every common carrier by the, simple expedient 6f
providing a separate corporation nominally to -control
such facilities. Eichenberg v. So. Pac. Co. et.al., 14 I. C.
C. Rep. 250, 263.
Without regard to the purpose for which the Terminal
Company was organized the fact remains that it was holding itself out to the public as furnishing general terminal

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Argument for Appellee.

219 U.S.

facilities for the railroads connecting with it. Barrington
v. Commercial Dock Co., 15 Washington, 170, 175; Indian
River Steamboat Co. v. East Coast Transportation Go., 28
Florida, 387; Missouri Rac. Ry. Co. v. Flour Mills Co.,
211 U. S. 612, 619; United States v. Delaware & Hudson
Co., 213 U. S. 366, 418.
L. & N. R. R. Co. v. West Coast Naval Stores Co., 198
U. S. 483, is distinguishable, as there was no discrimination between shippers.
. The fact that the Terminal Company confines its operations to one State does not affect the question. It is an
agency in interstate commerce. The Daniel Ball, 10
Wall. 557; People v. Miller, 178 N. Y. 196.
Not only is the terminal company furnishing terminal
facilities for the Southern Pacific System but it is itself an
integral part of that system. Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 197, 326, 328.
The order of the Commission is a regulation of interstate commerce because the Commission has jurisdiction over all shipments even though part originated
within the State of Texas and no advantage can be given
to Young that discriminates in his favor and against interstate shippers in the same business. The situation is
covered by that class of regulations which the court has
described where uniformity is necessary. Railroad Co. v.
Fuller, 17 Wall. 560, 568; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 204; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.,
LarrabeeMills, 211 U. S.611; Int. Comm. Comm. v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S.452; United States v. Colo. &
N. W. R. R. Co., 157 Fed. Rep. 321, 330.
Even though part of Young's shipments originated
within the State of Texas, the business in which he engaged was interstate in character because all the shipments without exception were designed for foreign trade
and actually shipped abroad. Navigation Co. v. Insurance Co., 32 S.W. Rep. 889.

SO. PAC. TERMINAL'CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 513
219 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Even if a portion of Young's shipments are to .be considered as not within the provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Act the order is not void because the Commission is presumed to have limited its order to the power it
had. Navigation Co. v. Campbell, 177 Fed. Rep. 318.
That it did not point out in detail the manner in which
discriminations should be remedied, does not make the
order void. N. Y. Cent. & H. R. R. R. Co. v. Int. Comm.
Comm., 168 Fed. Rep. 131.
The contract with- Young constitutes an undue preference within the meaning of the act. See §§ 2, 3, 6, and 15.
The act should be liberally construed so as to advance
the remedy and retard the wrong. N. Y., N. H. & H.
R. R. Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 200 U. S. 361; American
Express Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 522, 532.
Every shipper using the terminal facilities was required to pay a certain wharfage charge according to a
fixed schedule as well as storage charges. Young was
.granted the right to use the terminal facilities free of
wharfage charges and storage charges for the lump sum
of $15,000 per year, whereas if he had paid the regular
.charges the cost would have been $42,000 per year. Such
an agreement clearly constitutes discrimination in favor
of Young. Contracts between railroad companies and
shippers by which for some stated consideration a less
charge is made either for facilities. furnished or freight
carried than is made to other shippers have frequently
been passed upon and held to violate statutes against
undue preferences. Hurley v. Big Sandy & C. R. R. Co.,
125 S. W. Rep. 302; C. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Standard Lumber
Co., 174 Fed. Rep. 107; Hobart-Lee Tie Co. v. Stone, 117
S. W. Rep. 604; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. United
States, 156 Fed. Rep. 558. That the Terminal Company
had power to lease its property or alienate its real estate
does not affect the question. The vice of the arrangement lies not in the exercise of the power to lease but in
VOL. ccxix-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

the natural effect ofthe contract of lease made.. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v., Int. Comm. Comm., 200 -U. S.
361, 397; Armour Packing Co. V.' United States, 209 U. S.
56, 80; Union Pacific R. R. Co."v. Goodrich, 149"U. S. 680,
6 1; Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512, 517.
The finding of the Commission that as a -matterof fact
the contract with Young constituted ih undue preference
will not be disturbed by this court unless so arbitrary as
to transcend the limits of regulation. Int. Comm. Comm.
v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452; Illinois Central
R. R. Co. v. int. Comm. Comm., 206 U. S. 441, 454; C.,
N. 0. & T. P.'R. R. Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 162 U. S.
184, 196; State v. Adams Express Co., 85 N. E. Rep. 337;
Int. Comm. Comm. v. Alabama, Midland Ry. Co., 168
U. S. 144, 170.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

aftervstating the facts as

above, delivered the opinion of the court.
It will be observed that the order of the Commission
required appelants to cease and desist" from granting
Young the alleged undue preference for a period of not
less than tvoyears from September 1, 1908 (subsequently
extended to November 15).. It is hence contended that the
order of the Commission hab expired and that the case
having thereby become moot, the appeal should be dismissed.
This court has said a number of times that it will only
decide actual controversies, and if, pending an appeal,
somethi g occurs without any fault of the defendant
which renders it impossible, if our decision should be in
favor of the plaintiff, to grant him effectual relief, the appeal will be dismissed. Jones v. Montague, 194 U. S. 147,
and Richardson v. McChesney, decided November 28 of
this term, 218 U. S. 487.. But in those cases the acts
sought to be enjoined haa been completely executed, and

eAC. TERMINAL CO. v.iNT. COMM. COMM. 515
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

there was nothing that the judgment of the oourt, if the
suits had been entertained, could have affected. The case
at bar comes within the rule announced in United States v.
Trans-MissouriFreightAss'n, 166 U. S. 290, 308,and Boise
City Irr. & Land Co. v. Clark (C. C. App. 9th Cir.), 131
Fed. Rep. 415.
In the case at bar the order of the Commission may to
some extent (the exact extent it is unnecessary to define)
be the basis of further proceedings. But there is a broader
consideration: The questions involved in the orders of
the Interstate Commerce Commission are usually continuing (as are manifestly those in the case at bar) and
their consideration ought not to be, as they might be,
defeated, by short term orders, capable of repetition, yet
evading review, and at one time the Government and at
another time the carriers have their rights determined by
the Commission without a chance of redress.
In"United States v. Trans-MissouriFreightAss'n, supra,
the object of the suit was to obtain the judgment of the
court on the legality of an agreement between railroads,
alleged to be in violation of the Sherman law. In the case
at bar the object of the suit is to have declared illegal an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. In that
case there was an attempt to defeat the purposes of the suit
by a voluntary dissolution of the agreement, and of the attempt the court said: "The mere dissolution of the association is not the most important object of this litigation.
The judgment of the court is sought upon the question of
the legality of the agreement itself, for the carrying out
of which the association was formed, and if such agreement be declared to be illegal the court is asked not only
to dissolve the association named in the bill, but that the
defendant should be enjoined for the future. .
Private parties may settle their controversies at any time,
and rights which a plaintiff may have had at the time of
the commencement of the action may terminate before

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 L.

judgment is obtained, or while the case is on appeal, and
in any such case the court, being informed of the facts,
will proceed no further in the action. Here, however,
there has been no extinguishment of the rights (whatever
they are) of the public, the enforcement of which the
Government has endeavored to procure by the judgment
of a court Under the provisions of the act of Congress
above cited. The defendants cannot foreclose those rights
nor prevent the assertion thereof by the Government
as a substafitial trustee for -the public under the act of
Congress, by any such action as has been taken in this
case." Referring to the agreement as one claimed by the
Government as illegal, it was further said (p. 310): "That
question the Government has the right to bring before
the court and obtain its judgment thereon." The interests there passed upon are no more of a public character
than those involved in the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission in the case at bar, and there was no
greater necessity for continuing a jurisdiction which had
properly attached, and that the Government is the respondent, not complainant, does not lessen or change the
character of the interests involved in the controversy or
terminate its questions.
In Boise City Irr. & Land Co. V. Clark, supra, the period
for which a municipal ordinance fixed a water' rate expired pending the litigation as to its legality, and it was
contended that the case had. become moot. The court
replied: "But the courts have entertained and decided
such cases heretofore, partly because the rate, once fixed,
continues in force until changed as provided by law, and
partly because of the necessity or propriety of deciding
some question of law presented which might serve to guide
the municipal body when again called upon to act in the
matter."
The motion to dismiss is denied.
Four errors are asigned in the action of the Circuit

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 517
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court in dismissing the bill of complaint. (1) The Interstate Commerce Commission had no jurisdiction over the
Terminal Company, it not being a common carrier, and
therefore not subject to the act to regulate commerce.
(2) The Commission had no power or authority to declare
the lease to Young illegal. (3) The lease does not constitute an unlawful or undue preference or advantage
within the meaning of the act. to regulate commerce.
(4) The Commission by its order assumed to control intrastate and foreign commerce, not subject to the act to
regulate commerce.
Two facts are prominent in the case, that the piers of
the Terminal Company are facilities of import and export
traffic at the port of Galveston and that the arrangement
of the Terminal Company with Young has enabled him to
largely and rapidly increase his business until his exports.
of cotton seed products are more than twice those of all
other competitors, that he derives therefrom 30 to 40
cents per ton over the ordinary buying and selling profit,
and that some who were his competitors have ceased to
export. A direct advantage to Young is manifest. A
direct detriment to other exporters is equally manifest.
The situation challenges attention. Appellants find in
it nothing but the natural and legal result of the sagacity
which could see an opportunity for profit and the enterprise which could avail of it. It was the simple matter on
the part of Young, it is contended, of bringing his business to the ship's side and cutting out intervening expenses. And it is said that the Terminal Company had
an equally lawful inducement. It had an idle property, it
is contended, over which it had absolute control and
which it turned to use and profit by the arrangement with
Young. And this, it is insisted, was a simple exercise of
ownership. If the elements of the controversy are correctly stated, the justification may be considered as made
out.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

Appellants make much of their title and, assuming it to
be absolute, assert the right to an unrestrained use of the
property. But the assertion overlooks or underestimates
the condition expressed in the deed to Huntington, that
from his estate to the Terminal Company, in the ordinance of the city of Galveston, and in the act of the legislature of the State of Texas. The condition expressed in
all of them was that terminal facilities should be constructed upon the property for the use of the Southern
Pacific Railroad and Steamship Systems. The act of the
legislature declared that the property "should' be. developed for shipping and transportation purposes, and
that the shipping facilities at the port of Galveston should
be thereby improved and enlarged in order to better accommodate the commerce of the port and of the State."
And wharfage charges, except so far as they should be
covered by the freight rates, should be subject to regulation by the railroad commission of the State.
It is clear, therefore, that it was the purpose of the
,ordinance and of the act confirming it to secure shipping
facilities for the city, open to public use, and necessarily
so, for the property was to be the terminal of a railroad
and steamship system. It may be, as it is contended, that
there was no necessity for the ordinance, "except for the
purpose of a valid, relinquishment of the municipal right,
often asserted by it, of opening streets through the bay
front property and constructing wharves thereon." The
relinquishment was treated as valuable and Huntington
pledged the property to a public use as a consideration for
it. And, as we have said, such use was also a condition
expressed in the act of the legislature. It was not discharged by the expenditure of $150,000 and the erection
of wharves by Huntington, as seems to be the contention.
The case has no likeness whatever to Louisville &c. R. R.
Co. v. West Coast Co., .198-U. S.483. In the latter case
there was no dis.rimination against the West Coast Coin-

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 519
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany by the railroad company or a preference given to
any person. The West Coast Company had the same
privilege of using the wharves of the railroad company as
other shippers were given. It asserted other privilegesIt asserted the privilege of using the wharf for the purpose
of transferring goods into vessels which it might arrange
to take them; in other words, not into the vessels of the
railroad company or into those with which it had traffic
agreements. And we said, through Mr. Justice Peckham,
"In brief, the fact seems to be that the only complaint of
the plaintiff (West Coast Company) is that the defendant
(the railroad company) will not permit competing vessels
to make use of its wharf for the purpose of such competition."
It is true that there was a contention that the wharf
was a public one, but the contention was based only on
the fact 'that the wharf was built at the foot.of a public
street by authority from the city of Pensagola and the
State of Florida. That fact alone was not considered sufficient to support the contention. And it was said, "The
city or State authorities in granting the right to erect such
facilities might, of course, have attached such conditions
as they thought wise, but in their absence neither the
public nor this plaintiff, as the owner of goods, would have
the right, on this state of facts, to go to the wharf with
vessels for the purpose of continuing transportation of
goods in competition with defendant." It is true it was
said that the railroad company never became a common
[carrier as to the wharf, in the sense that it was bound to
accord to the public or to the West Coast Company the
right to use it upon payment of compensation. But it was
added thatthe railroad companywould be bound to carry
the West Coast Company's goods on the rails which led
to the wharf, for the same purpose and upon the same
terms that it did for others, viz., in order that it might
itself, or through others it had contracted with, forward

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of- the. Court.

219 U.S.

the goods beyond its own line. And it was further said
that the West Coast Company demanded more than this;
it demanded that the railroad company should carry its
goods in order that it might itself forward them by vessels of its own selection, and that the railyoad company
should surrender possession of enough of its wharf to enable the other company to do so.
Nor is Weems Steamboat Company v. Peopl's-Company,
214 U. S. 344, applicable to the.pending controversy. The
contest there was between two independent lines of
steamboats, the one claiming a right to use the wharves
of the other, on the ground that the wharves had been
dedicated to the public. The fact was found adversely to
the contention, and the claim. of right to the use of the
*harves denied. A review of the reasoning of the court is
unnecessary. There is great difference between competing -carriers claiming the right to use the facilities of one
.4nother and the patrons of the same carrier, contending
for equality of treatment. In stating this we assume that
the wharves in the pendig Wase, are the; inst ruments of a
common carrier. This is, however, denied, and it is asserted that the Terminal C6mpany is iu'ely a,wharfage
company, and "has no power under its charter to-act as
a common carrier." The contention is based on apartial
'view of the conditions. The Terminal Company was incorporated to execute the purposes exprvssed in the act of
the legislature of the State of Texas, that is, to construct
terminal facilities for the Southern P~nific Railroad and
Steamship Systems, and to accommodate the export and
import traffic at Galveston; and, necessarily, as instrumentalities of such traffic, wharves and piers are as. essential as steamships and railroads, and are, in fact, as
they were intended to be by the charter of their authorization, parts of a system. The only track facilities for
movement of cars to or from the ships, from or to the
tracks of the Southern Pacific Railways, are on the Termi-

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 621
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nal Company's lands, and are owned by it. To these
tracks the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway switches car for other railroads, charging $1.75 per.
car, and the Terminal Company receives a trackage
charge of 50 cents per car. It is true that the Terminal
Company does a wharfage business and publishes a
schedule of its charges, which, while not filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission, shows a charge of 20
cents a ton on cotton seed cake and meal, and this appears
as a wharfage charge in the tariffs of the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company and other railways entering the city of Galveston. And, besides, the
Terminal Company was a party to numerous circulars
issued by the Southern Pacific Railway Company, and
that effective May 23, 1905, was filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission. These circulars gave terminal
charges at the port of Galveston. -The charge on cotton
seed meal and cake was given at 1 cent per 100 pounds.
Shipments on through bills of lading include in the freight
rate the wharfage charge.
Another and important fact is the control of the properties by the Southern Pacific Company through stock
ownership. There is a separation of the companies if we
regard only their charters; there is a union of them if we
regard their control and operation through the Southern'
Pacific Company. This control and operation are the important facts to shippers. It is of no consequence that by
mere charter declaration the Terminal Company is a
wharfage company or the Southern Pacific a holding company. Verbal declarations cannot alter the facts. The
control and operatioir of the Southern Pacific Company
of the railroads and the Terminal Company have united
them into a system of which all are necessary parts, the
Terminal Company as well as the railroad companies.
As said by the Interstate Commerce Commission, "the
Terminal Company was organized to. .furnish terminal

OCTOBER TERM. A1910.
Opinion of the Court.

'219 U. S.

facilities for the system at the port of Galveston," and it
is further said that "through shipments on the railroad

lines from and to points in different States of the Union
pass and repass over the docks of the Terminal Company.
It forms a link in this chain of transportation. It is necessary to complete the avenue through which move shipments over these lines owned by a single corporation."
And this unity of the railroad's lines and the terminal
facilities is recognized in the lease to Young. By it he,
agrees to route all of his shipments over" the lines of the
Terminal Company and its connections, according to the
instructions of said Terminal Company from time to
time." And provision is made against the possibility of
other line§ bidding for the traffic by lower rates. In such
event he must give notice.to the Terminal Company and
give it "the'option of meeting such proposed rates," and
if the company "elects to do so," then he "shall not divert
such shipments, :but shall abide by the provisions" of his
agreement. And. surely a system so constituted and used
as an instrument of interstate commerce may not escape
regulation as such because one of its constituents is a
wharfage company and its dominating power a holding
company. As well said by the Interstate Commerce
Comlnission, "a corporation such as this Terminal Company, which has 'competing lines,' should not be permitted to defeat. the jurisdiction of this Commission by
showing that it is not. in. fact owned by any railroad company. .
The Terminal Company is part and parcel
of the system engaged in the transportation of commerce,
and to the extent that such commerce is interstate the
Commission has jurisdiction to supervise and control it
within statutory limits. To hold otherwise would in effect
permit carriers generally, through the organization of separate corporations, to exempt all of their terminals from
our regulating authority."
The reasoning of the Commission is justified by the

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. INT. COMM. COMM. 523
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute. It includes in the term "railroad" "all bridges
and ferries used or operated in connection with any railroad, and also all the road in use by any corporation
operating a railroad, whether owned or operated under a
contract, agreement, or lease, and shall also include all
switches, spurs, tracks, and terminal facilities of every
kind used or necessary in the transportation of the persons
or property designated herein, and also all freight depots,
yards, and grounds used or necessary in the transportation or delivery of any of said property."
The property of the Terminal Company is "necessary
in the transportation or delivery" of the interstate and
foreign freight transported by the lines of the Southern
Pacific system. It is the only terminal, for freight moving
over the lines of such system, .the rails of one of those
lines, the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway Company, connecting with tracks upon the docks of
the Terminal Company.. That the latter collects a trackage charge from the former and it a switching charge
from the Terminal Company are, to quote the Commission, "but incidents of th3 separate corporations."
In opposition to .these views appellants urge the legal
individuality of the different railroads and the Terminal
Company and cite cases which establish, it is contended,
that stock ownership simply or through a holding company does not identify them. We are not concerned to
combat the proposition. The record does not present a
case of stock ownership merely or of a holding company
which was content to hold. It presents a case, as we have
already said, of one actively managing and uniting the
railroads and the Terminal Company into an organized
system. And it is with the system that the law must deal,
not with its elements., Such elements may, indeed, be regarded from some standpoints as legal entities; may have,
in a sense, separate corporate operation; but they are
directed by the spime paramouit and combining power and

OCTOBER TERM', 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

made single by it. In all transactions it is treated as
single. In the ordinance of the city of Galveston, in the
act of 1899, of the legislature of the State, and in public
circulars and in the lease of Young, it is the system which
is dealt with and not its separate links. And, we have
seen, the terminal facilities which the Terminal Company
was authorized to maintain were for the system, not for
the corporate elements considered separately.
It is next contended that the lease to Young under the
facts proven does not constitute an 'unlawful or undue
preference under the Interstate Commerce Act.
To a certain extent we have considered this contention.
An absolute advantage to Young cannot be denied. A
facility that has enabled him to acquire practically all
the export of cotton seed products must have something
in it of advantage which other shippers do not receive,
and it would seem to proclaim a power working for his
benefit which is not working for others. And yet it is
urged that there is a contrariety of opinion about it
among cotton seed cake producers. and as to whether
Young is able to dominate the Texas market and to
command the foreign trade. The facts, we think, put
the matter beyond conjecture or opinion and demonstrate the potency of his situation. That it is a preference, however, is denied; and -it is urged that by the
agreed statement .of facts all cotton seed cake producers
"agree that if there was a general establishment of plants
in Galveston, so that a monopoly could not be acquired".
by Young, "it would be of great benefit to the cotton
seed industry."' But it is also agreed that neither the
Galveston Wharf Company nor the Terminal Company
has space enough to afford facilities to "all exporters
doing business at Galveston" such as Young. And the
Commission found that as a practical matter other shippers could not be given the same facilities on the same
conditions as those granted to him, nor could such fa-

SO. PAC. TERMINAL CO. v. iNT. COMM. COMM. 525
219 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

cilities -be secured on the bay front. It was further found
that the Terminal Company had indicated that it is not
willing to accord shippers generally such facilities, and
that the situation of its docks with respect to space is
such that it cannot do so even if it were. willing. It may
be contended that the patrons of a railroad are not
obliged to seek or compete for extraordinary facilities in
its terminals. But, be that as'it may, all shippers must
be treated alike.
Appellants bring forward the same argument to support the contention under consideration which they advance to support their first contention, to wit, the right,
as owner of the property, to make a lease -of its "unused
property," subject only to the limitation that there shall
be ho0 interference "with the use of the adjacent navigable waters." It would seem. that, if the argument have
any force'at all, it would extend the rights of ownership
to used as well as unused property and be exercised in any
form of preference, even to. the exclusion of some shippers
from the wharves. However, as appellants do not press
the argument so far we need not dwell upon it and will
only add that the terminal facilities contemplated by the
ordinance of the city of Galveston and the act of the legislature of Texas confirming it were public terminal facilities, not those which might be granted or withheld
in preferences or discriminations.
The last contention advanced is that "the order of the
Commission transcends its jurisdiction, in that it regulates commerce purely State and intrastate, and also
purely foreign commerce, -neither of which is subject to
its authority."
In support of this contention it is insisted that the
evidence shows the following facts: The cake and meal
purchased by Young -Are bought by him in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Arkansas, but chiefly- in Texas, and
shipped to him on bills of lading and way bills, showing

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

the point of origin in those States and the destination at
Galveston. The purchases are made for export, there
being. no consumption of the products at Galveston.
His sales to foreign countries are sometimes for immediate
and sometimes for future delivery, irrespective of whether
he has the product on hand at Galveston. At times he
has it on hand. At times, therefore, orders must be
filled from cake to be purchased in the' interior or then
in transit to him. When the cake reaches Galveston it
is ground into meal and sacked by Young, and for the
meal thus ground and such meal as has been brought to
his customers he takes out ships' bills of lading made to
his order.
This evidence establishes, appellants contend, that the
transit of the cake and meal is absolutely ended at the
leased premises at Galveston, and that it is "a final point
of concentration and manufacture, the cotton seed cake
being there manufactured. into meal and sacked for export." But this does not distinguish. between the meal
and the cake, nor between the meal that is purchased at
points outside of Texas and directly exported, from that
so purchased and manufactured on the wharves of the
Terminal Company. Nor does it take account of the
fact that the wharves wre -intended for shipping facilities, a means of transition from land carriage tQ water
carriage. It is manifest, as. we have said,. that to make.
the wharves manufacturingN or concentrating points for
one shipper and not for all is to give that shipper a preference.. And, being a prcferenqe, the traffic necessarily
comes under the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. In other words, the manufacture" or concentration on the wharves of the Terminal Company are
but incidents, under the circumstances presented by the
record, in the trans-shipment of the products in export
trade and their regulation is within the power of the Interstate Commerce Commission. To hold otherwise

MERRIMACK RIVER SAV. BK. v. CLAY CENTER. 527
219 U. S.

Syliabus.

woull be to -disregard, as the Commission said, the substance of things and make evasions of the act of Congress quite easy. It makes no difference, therefore, that
the' hipments .of the products were not made on through
bills of lading or whether their initial point was Galveston or some -other place in Texas. They were all destined
for export and by their delivery to the Galveston, Harrisburg and San Antonio Railway they must be considered
aA having been delivered to a carrier for transportation
to their foreign destination, the Terminal Company
being a part of the railway for such purpose. The case,
therefore, comes under Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517, where
it is said that goods are in interstate, and necessarily as
well in foreign, commerce when they have "actually
started in the course of transportation to another State,
or deli vwed to a carrier for transportation." In G., C. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. State of Texao, 204 U. S.403, the facts
are different and the case is not apposite.

Decree affirmed.

MERRIMACK RIVER SAVINGS BANK v. CITY OF
CLAY CENTER.
IN RE PROCEEDINGS FOR CONTEMPT.

No. 604. Argued January 26, 1911.-Decided February 20, 1911.
The force and effect of a decree dismissing a bill and discharging an injunction is neither suspended nor annulled as a mere consequence
of an appeal to this court, even if supersedeas is allowed; but the
Circuit Court.has power to continue an injunction during such an
appeal by virtue of its inherent equity power. Equity Rule 93.
While the (ircuit Court has not only the power to continue an in-.
junction in order to preserve the 8tatus quo pending an appeal but to
take cognizance of violations of such injunction, it does not follow

