OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

219 U. S.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
WASS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

MINNESOTA.
No. 181. Argued April 27, 28, 1910 -Restored to docket for reargument
December 19, 1910.-Reargued January 19, 20, 1911.-Decided February 20, 1911.

Decided on authority of Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, ante, p. 380.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn and Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with
whom Mr. Stiles W. Burr was on the brief, for appellants
in No. 24 and appellees in No. 12.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiffs in error in No. 181.
Mr. M. H. Stanford, with whom Mr. H. H. Hoyt was
on the brief, for appellees in No. 24 and appellants in
No. 12.
Mr. P. B. Gorman for defendant in error in No. 181.1
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
In brief, the facts of this case are as follows: While a
,filed selection by the St. Paul and Northern Pacific Railway Company of land within the indemnity limits of a
railroad grant was awaiting the action of the Secretary of
I This case was argued simultaneously with No. 24, Weyerhaeuser v.
Hoyt, ante, p. 380, and No. 12, Camvbell v. Weyerhaeuser, ante, p. 324.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. WASS.
219 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Interior, Fred Wass, in April, 1899, entered upon the
land with the intention of making it a homestead, and conti'nued in possession, making improvements, etc. In December following Wass presented to the Land Office an
application to enter the tract under the homestead laws.
The register and receiver fled his application, but on
the same day rejected it and refused to receive the fees
tendered, basing such refusal and rejection upon the
ground that the lands filed for were embraced in the then
pending selection. On appeal the action of the local Land
Office was affirmed by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office and by the Secretary of the Interior respectively. The selection was subsequently approved and a
patent for the lands was issued by'the governor of Minnesota, all rights under which became vested in the N orthern
Pacific Railway Company, the plaintiff in error. That
company then commenced this action against Wass and
his wife in a court of the State of Minnesota to recover
possession of the land and damages for the detention. In
the answer, among other things, affirmative relief was
prayed against the railway company for the conveyance
of the legal title to Wass. A demurrer to the answer was
overruled upon the authority of the decision in Sjoli v.
Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564, and a decree was entered in favor
of Wass, granting the relief prayed by him. This decree
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota upon
the authority of the Sjoli case as well as the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in Hoyt v. Weyerhaeuser, 161
Fed. Rep. 324. The opinion just announced, reviewing
the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the Hoyt case
and reversing the decree entered in that case, conclusively
establishes that error was committed by the court below,
and therefore requires a reversal.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is therefore reversed, and the case is remanded to that court for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this, opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910,
HA.LAN

and DAY, JJ,, dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

TICE

DAY,

219 U.S.

with whom concurred MR. JUS-

dissenting.

This action was instituted in the District Court of Todd
County, Minnesota, by the Northern Pacific Railway
Company,- a Wisconsin corporation, to recover the possession and damages for the detention of the southeast
quarter of section thirteen, township one hundred and
twenty-nine, north of range thirty-two west, situated in
the above county.
The answer of the defendant Wass states 6ertain facts
both by way of defense and as the basis for an affirmative
decree against the Railway Company, declaring that the
legal title to the land is held in trust for his use and benefit,
and should be conveyed to him. The company demurred
to the answer as not stating facts sufficient to constitute
either a defense or a counterclaim. The demurrer was
overruled, and the case was determined on the facts stated
in the answer, as,well as on those set forth in a special finding. By the decree it was adjudged that the legal title was
held in trust for the defendant, and the plaintiff was ordered to convey the title to him by sufficient deed. On the
authority of Sjoli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564, and Hoyt v.
Weyerhaeuser, 116 N. W. Rep. 937 (104 Minnesota, 411),
the Supreme Court of Minnesota affirmed the decree.
The case is here for review.
Upon the record before us the following facts must be
taken as beyond question:
1. The lands in question were surveyed public lands of
the United States within the twenty mile indemnity limits of what are known as the Northern Pacific Railroad
land grants made by Congress to the Territory of Minnesota by the act of March 3d, 1857, c. 99, 11 Stat. 195, and
by the act of March 3d, 1865, c. 105, 13 Stat. 526, granting
lands to that State, which last act was amended March 3d,
1871., 16 Stat. 588, c. 144.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v WASS.
219 U. S.

HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

2. By a4 act of March 1st, 1877, the legislature of
Minnesota transferred all its rights in these lands to the
Western Railway Company of that State. That company
subsequently assigned its rights to the St. Paul and Northern Pacific Railway Company, the predecessor in interest
of the present plaintiff.
3. On the thirty-first day of December 1877, the Western Railway Company filed in the proper Land Office a list
purporting to contain a selection of lands under the indemnity provisions of the grants in question; not however
designating any particular lands within the primary or
place limits of either grant as the basis for the selected
tracts. But the lands here in question were among those
embraced in the above general list of selections.
4. Nearly twelve years after the filing of the list of seleclions by the Western Railway Company, namely, on December 4th, 1889, the St. Paul and Northern Pacific R ailway Company filed in the local Land Office an amended
list of the selection of indemnity lands, which list included
the land now in dispute. And on February 12th, 1892 it
filed a rearranged list of indemnity selections, and, then,
for the first time, indicated the tract alleged to have been
lost in primary limits, which loss it requested to be supplied by a particular tract in indemnity limits. Up to
that time the Secretary of the Interior had not acted on
that request nor approved-any of the selection lists filed.
5. The fact may. be here stated, though it is not very
important, that the lands: above described are also within
the indemnity limits of the Northern Pacific grant made
by the act of July 2d, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, and were
included in a withdrawal of indemnity lands made by the
Secretary of the Interior -on December 26th, 1871. But
that withdrawal was revoked by the General Land Office,
September 6th, 1887, and no final or approved selection of
any of the described tracts was ever made under the provisions of the Northern Pacific grant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

6. In April 1899-the Secretary of the Interior not
having, even at that date, approved either the original,
amended or rearranged selections of indemnity lands, as
shown on the company's lists theretofore filed-Wass
"entered upon and took possession of and made a settlement" on the lands in question, and thereafter maintained
such possession and use of the lands as a homestead, residing
continuously upon, cultivating and using them as his only
home. He also put improvements on them of the reasonable value of $1,200. All this he did with the bona fide
intention of entering the lands under the homestead laws.
The lands in their improved state exceeded $2,500 in
value. Wass was qualified in all respects to become a
claimant under the homestead laws of the United States.
No question was made at the hearing below either as to
his qualifications as a homestead claimant or as to the
sufficiency of his residence on the land or of the value of
his improvements.
7. On the fourth of December 1899, Wass filed with the
Register and Receiver of the local Land Office an application-which was in due and legal form, and was accompanied by proofs of his qualifications and acts as a
homestead claimant-to enter the said lands under the
homestead laws, and tendered to the Receiver the fees and
commissions lawfully chargeable upon his application.
The Register and Receiver who received and filed the application rejected it, refusing to take the fees and commissions tendered" upon the sole ground that the-lands applied
for were embraced in a then pending though unapprovedindemnity selection of the St. Paul and Northern Pacific
Railway." This action was approved by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office on-the tenth of July 1903, on
the ground that defendant's application "conflicted with
the prior indemnity selection of the land made by the
St. Paul and Northern Pacific Railway Company." The
selection here referred to was manifestly the amended or

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. WASS.
219 U. S.

HARLAN

and

DAY,

431

JJ., dissenting.

the rearranged list of indemnity selections filed by that
company on December 4, 1889. Subsequently, on January 9, 1904, the Secretary of the Interior affirmed the
decision of the Commissioner of the Genferal Land Office,
"on the ground that the indemnity selection of said lands
by the St. Paul and Northern Pacific Railway and its
predecessor, the Western Railway Company of Minnesota, were valid and of record prior to the date of the alleged settlement and filing of homestead application" by
the defendant Wass. But he made no reference to the entry and settlement of Wass on the land under the homestead laws, prior to the approvalof the list of selections by
the Secretary of the Interior.
8. On the sixteenth of February, 1905-nearly six years
after Wass entered and settled upon and improved these lands
as his home-the Secretary of the Interior, for the first
time, approved the list of indemnity selections made by
the St. Paul and Northern Pacific Railway Company.
9. On the fifteenth of March, 1905, a patent was issued
by the United States to the State for the use and benefit
of the Railway Company, the lands being described as
indemnity lands under the above grants of March 3, 1857,
March 3, 1865, and March 3, 1871.
These undisputed facts present a question of law which
the court may rightfully consider and determine. The
doctrine is settled that facts, authoritatively found by
the Land Department in the course of its administration
of the public domain, cannot be collaterally questioned.
But yet when the legal title to lands has passed from the
United States to one party, when in equity and good conscience, according to the facts conceded, found or established, and when, as a matter of law, in view of those facts,
it ought to have gone to another, the former may be adjudged to hold the title in trust for the latter, true owner,
and compelled to convey to him. Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall.
402, 419; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Moore v. Rob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLA

and DAf, JJ., dissenting.

219 U. S.

bins, 96 U. S. 430; Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 291; Bernier
v. Bernier, 147 U. S. 242, 247; In re Emblen, 161 U. S. 52;
Hedrick v. A., T. & S. F. R. Co., 167 U. S. 673.
The contention is that under the patent issued by the
United States to the.State for the use and benefit of the
Railway Company all the original rights of the State passed
to the Northern Pacific Railway Company; whereas, the
defendant claims that the Land Offices and the Secretary
of the Interior illegally interfered with his purpose to
perfect his lawful claim originating under the homestead
laws of the United States, the right to do which, he insists, belonged to him under the provisions of ยง 2289 and
other sections of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the
acts of Congress.
Upon the undisputed facts, we hold that wass' entry
and settlement upon these lands, -and his application for
them, with the bona fide intention to complete his title
under the homestead laws, all occurring before the Secretary's approval of the company's list, gave him an interest
and right in the particular -lands in question which could
not be impaired or defeated by the subsequent approval of
the Secretary of the Interior of the 'list of selected lands
filed by the beneficiary of the land grant, although such
list was filed prior to Wass' entry, settlement and application. The pendency of the list in the Land Office was not
decisive, for the reason that it had not been approved by
the Secretary at the time Wass' claim was made and attached to the lands. The lands in question, being within
indemnity limits, were open to entry, 'settlement and acquisition by qualified claimants under the homestead
laws, after and notwithstanding the mere filing of the list
of selected lands; and the rights acquired by the homesteader in the manner stated were not impaired or overridden by the Secretary's subsequent approval of such
list.
For the reasons stated in the dissenting opinion in

SO. PACIFIC CO. v. INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. 433
219 U. S.

Syllabus.

Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, just decided, the judgment should
be affirmed. We dissent from the opinion and judgment
of the majority.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTIIERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No: 527. Argued December 13, 1910.-Decided February 20, 1911.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, made in consequence of assumption of powers not possessed by it, is void, and its
enforcement should be restrained by the courts.
The powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission do not extend toregulating and controlling the policy of the owners of railr6ads in
fixing rates, anti it cannot substitute for a just and reasonable rate,
a lower rate, either on the ground of policy or on the ground that the
railroad was by its former conduct estopped from charging a reasonable rate.
Where the shippers do not complain of a new and higher rate because
it is intrinsically an unreasonable one, but because, although reasonable, the railroads are estopped to advance it on account of having
maintained the lower rate for a considerable period, it is beyond the
power of the Commission to direct a restoration of the old rate; and
so held in regard to the Willamette Valley lumber rates.
Where the Commission makes an order restoring a rate that shows on
its face it was made on the ground that the railroad was estopped to,
increase it, the order will not be presumed to have been made for
the purpose of establishing a reasonable rate, if it excludes a section
from the benefit of the restored rate which amounts to a discrimination against that section.
Questions arising on the validity of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing a rate do not become moot merely because
the period for which the rate is prescribed has expired, where an element of liability for reparation remains. See Southern Pacific Terminal Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, pwt, p. 498.
VOL. rxcxix-28

