WATTS v. INDIANA.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

WATTS v. INDIANA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIANA.

No. 610.

Argued April 25, 1949.-Decided June 27, 1949.

Petitioner was arrested on suspicion on a Wednesday and held
without arraignment, without the aid of counsel or friends and
without advice as to his constitutional rights, until the following
Tuesday, when he confessed to murder. Meanwhile he was held
much of the time in solitary confinement in a cell with no place
to sit or sleep except the floor and was interrogated by relays
of police officers, usually until long past midnight. At his trial
in a state court, the confession was admitted in evidence over his
objection and he was convicted. Held: The use at the trial of
a confession obtained in this manner violated the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the conviction is reversed. Pp. 49-55.
226 Ind. 655, 82 N. E. 2d 846, reversed.

The Supreme Court of Indiana affirmed petitioner's

conviction for murder, notwithstanding his contention
that his confession was procured under circumstances
rendering its admission in evidence a denial of due process
of law. 226 Ind. 655, 82 N. E. 2d 846. This Court
granted certiorari. 336 U. S. 917. Reversed, p. 55.
Franklin H. Williams and Thurgood Marshall argued
the cause for petitioner. With them on the brief were
Robert L. Carterand Henry J. Richardson.
Frank E. Coughlin, Deputy Attorney General of Indiana, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the
brief were J. Emmett McManamon, Attorney General,
Earl R. Cox and Merl M. Wall, Deputy Attorneys
General.
announced the judgment
of the Court and an opinion in which MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

Although the Constitution puts protection against
crime predominantly in the keeping of the States, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

338 U. S.

Fourteenth Amendment severely restricted the States in
their administration of criminal justice. Thus, while the
State courts have the responsibility for securing the rudimentary requirements of a civilized order, in discharging
that responsibility there hangs over them the reviewing power of this Court.1 Power of such delicacy and
import must, of course, be exercised with the greatest forbearance. When, however, appeal is made to
it, there is no escape. And so this Court once again
must meet the uncongenial duty of testing the validity of
a conviction by a State court for a State crime by what
is to be found in the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. This case is here because the Supreme
Court of Indiana rejected petitioner's claim that confessions elicited from him were procured under circumstances rendering their admission as evidence against him
a denial of due process of law.2 226 Ind. 655, 82 N. E.
2d 846. The grounds on which our review was sought
seemed sufficiently weighty to grant the petition for
certiorari. 336 U. S. 917.
On review here of State convictions, all those matters
which are usually termed issues of fact are for conclusive
determination by the State courts and are not open for
reconsideration by this Court. Observance of this re' Of course this Court does not have the corrective power over
State courts that it has over the lower federal courts. See, e. g.,

McNabb v. United States, 318 U. S. 332. In the main, the proper
administration of the criminal law of the States rests with the State
courts. The nature of the Due Process Clause, however, potentially
gives wide range to the reviewing power of this Court over Statecourt convictions.
2 In the petitioner's statements there was acknowledgment of the
possession of an incriminating gun, the existence of which the police
independently established. But a coerced confession is inadmissible
under the Due Process Clause even though statements in it may be
independently established as true. See Liaenba v. California, 314
U. S. 219, 236-237.

WATTS v. INDIANA.
49

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

striction in our review of State courts calls for the utmost
scruple. But "issue of fact" is a coat of many colors.
It does not cover a conclusion drawn from uncontroverted happenings, when that conclusion incorporates
standards of conduct or criteria for judgment which
in themselves are decisive of constitutional rights. Such
standards and criteria, measured against the requirements
drawn from constitutional provisions, and their proper
applications, are issues for this Court's adjudication.
Hooven & Allison Co. v. Evatt, 324 U. S. 652, 659, and
cases cited. Especially in cases arising under the Due
Process Clause is it important to distinguish between issues of fact that are here foreclosed and issues which,
though cast in the form of determinations of fact, are
the very issues to review which this Court sits. See
Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 589-90; Marsh v. Alabama, 326 U. S. 501, 510.
In the application of so embracing a constitutional concept as "due process," it would be idle to expect at all
times unanimity of views. Nevertheless, in all the cases
that have come here during the last decade from the
courts of the various States in which it was claimed that
the admission of coerced confessions vitiated convictions
for murder,' there has been complete agreement that any
3 The validity of a conviction because an allegedly coerced confession was used has been called into question in the following cases:
(A) Confession was found to be procured under circumstances
violative of the Due Process Clause in Haley v. Ohio, 332 U. S. 596;
Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S. 401; Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322
U. S. 143; Ward v. Texas, 316 U. S. 547; Lomax v. Texas, 313 U. S.
544; Vernon v. Alabama, 313 U. S. 547; White v. Texas, 310 U. S.
530; Canty v. Alabama, 309 U. S. 629; White v. Texas, 309 U. S.
631; Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227; Brown v. Mississippi, 297
U. S. 278; and see Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 327 U. S. 274.
(B) Confession was found to have been procured under circumstances not violative of the Due Process Clause in Lyons v. Oklahoma, 322 U. S. 596, and Lisenba v. California,314 U. S. 219.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

338 U. S.

conflict in testimony as to what actually led to a contested confession is not this Court's concern. Such conflict comes here authoritatively resolved by the State's
adjudication. Therefore only those elements of the
events and circumstances in which a confession was
involved that are unquestioned in the State's version of
what happened are relevant to the constitutional issue
here. But if force has been applied, this Court does
not leave to local determination whether or not the confession was voluntary. There is torture of mind as well
as body; the will is as much affected by fear as by force.
And there comes a point where this Court should not
be ignorant as judges of what we know as men. See
Taft, C. J., in the Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20, 37.
This brings us to the undisputed circumstances which
must determine the issue of due process in this case.
Thanks to the forthrightness of counsel for Indiana, these
circumstances may be briefly stated.
On November 12, 1947, a Wednesday, petitioner was
arrested and held as the suspected perpetrator of an
alleged criminal assault earlier in the day. Later the
same day, in the vicinity of this occurrence, a woman was
found dead under conditions suggesting murder in the
course of an attempted criminal assault. Suspicion of
murder quickly turned towards petitioner and the police
began to question him. They took him from the county
jail to State Police Headquarters, where he was questioned by officers in relays from about 11:30 that night
until sometime between 2:30 and 3 o'clock the following morning. The same procedure of persistent interrogation from about 5:30 in the afternoon until about
3 o'clock the following morning, by a relay of six to
eight officers, was pursued on Thursday the 13th, Friday
the 14th, Saturday the 15th, Monday the 17th. Sunday was a day of rest from interrogation. About 3
o'clock on Tuesday morning, November 18, the petitioner made an incriminating statement after continuous

WATTS v. INDIANA.
49

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

questioning since 6 o'clock of the preceding evening.
The statement did not satisfy the prosecutor who had
been called in and he then took petitioner in hand. Petitioner, questioned by an interrogator of twenty years'
experience as lawyer, judge and prosecutor, yielded a
more incriminating document.
Until his inculpatory statements were secured, the petitioner was a prisoner in the exclusive control of the prosecuting authorities. He was kept for the first two days in
solitary confinement in a cell aptly enough called "the
hole" in view of its physical conditions as described by
the State's witnesses. Apart from the five night sessions,
the police intermittently interrogated Watts during the
day and on three days drove him around town, hours
at a time, with a view to eliciting identifications and
other disclosures. Although the law of Indiana required
that petitioner be given a prompt preliminary hearing
before a magistrate, with all the protection a hearing was
intended to give him, the petitioner was not only given
no hearing during the entire period of interrogation but
was without friendly or professional aid and without
advice as to his constitutional rights. Disregard of rudimentary needs of life-opportunities for sleep and a
decent allowance of food-are also relevant, not as aggravating elements of petitioner's treatment, but as part
of the total situation out of which his confessions came
and which stamped their character.
A confession by which life becomes forfeit must be
the expression of free choice. A statement to be voluntary of course need not be volunteered. But if it is the
product of sustained pressure by the police it does not
issue from a free choice. When a suspect speaks because
he is overborne, it is immaterial whether he has been
subjected to a physical or a mental ordeal. Eventual
yielding to questioning under such circumstances is
plainly the product of the suction process of interrogation and therefore the reverse of voluntary. We would

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

338 U. S.

have to shut our minds to the plain significance of what
here transpired to deny that this was a calculated endeavor to secure a confession through the pressure of
unrelenting interrogation. The very relentlessness of
such interrogation implies that it is better for the prisoner to answer than to persist in the refusal of disclosure
which is his constitutional right. To turn the detention
of an accused into a process of wrenching from him evidence which could not be extorted in open court with all
its safeguards, is so grave an abuse of the power of arrest
as to offend the procedural standards of due process.
This is so because it violates the underlying principle
in our enforcement of the criminal law. Ours is the
accusatorial as opposed to the inquisitorial system. Such
has been the characteristic of Anglo-American criminal
justice since it freed itself from practices borrowed by
the Star Chamber from the Continent whereby an accused was interrogated in secret for hours on end. See
Ploscowe, The Development of Present-Day Criminal
Procedures in Europe and America, 48 Harv. L. Rev.
433, 457-58, 467-473 (1935). Under our system society
carries the burden of proving its charge against the accused not out of his own mouth. It must establish its
case, not by interrogation of the accused even under judicial safeguards, but by evidence independently secured
through skillful investigation. "The law will not suffer
a prisoner to be made the deluded instrument of his own
conviction." 2 Hawkins, Pleas of the Crown, c. 46, ยง 34
(8th ed., 1824). The requirement of specific charges,
their proof beyond a reasonable doubt, the protection of
the accused from confessions extorted through whatever
form of police pressures, the right to a prompt hearing before a magistrate, the right to assistance of counsel, to be
supplied by government when circumstances make it
necessary, the duty to advise an accused of his constitutional rights-these are all characteristics of the accusatorial system and manifestations of its demands.

WATTS v. INDIANA.
49

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER, J.

Protracted, systematic and uncontrolled subjection of an
accused to interrogation by the police for the purpose
of eliciting disclosures or confessions is subversive of the
accusatorial system. It is the inquisitorial system without its safeguards. For while under that system the
accused is subjected to judicial interrogation, he is protected by the disinterestedness of the judge in the presence
of counsel. See Keedy, The Preliminary Investigation
of Crime in France, 88 U. of Pa. L. Rev. 692, 708-712
(1940).
In holding that the Due Process Clause bars police
procedure which violates the basic notions of our accusatorial mode of prosecuting crime and vitiates a conviction
based on the fruits of such procedure, we apply the Due
Process Clause to its historic function of assuring appropriate procedure before liberty is curtailed or life is taken.
We are deeply mindful of the anguishing problems which
the incidence of crime presents to the States. But the
history of the criminal law proves overwhelmingly that
brutal methods of law enforcement are essentially selfdefeating, whatever may be their effect in a particular
case. See, e. g., Radzinowicz, A History of English
Criminal Law and its Administration from 1750, passim
(1948). Law triumphs when the natural impulses
aroused by a shocking crime yield to the safeguards
which our civilization has evolved for an administration
of criminal justice at once rational and effective.
We have examined petitioner's other contentions and
do not sustain them.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the judgment of the
Court on the authority of Chambers v. Florida,309 U. S.
227; Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143.
On the record before us and in view of the consideration
given to the evidence by the state courts and the conclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS, J.,

sion reached,

concurring.

338 U. S.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE REED

MR. JUSTICE BURTON

and

believe that the judgment should

be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

concurring.

The following are the undisputed facts:
Petitioner was taken into custody early in the afternoon on Wednesday, November 12, 1947. He was first
detained on suspicion of having committed a criminal
assault, and it was not until later in the day of his arrest
that he was suspected of having committed the murder
for which he was later tried and convicted. He was held
without being arraigned, until the following Tuesday
when he gave a confession that satisfied the police. At
no time was he advised of his right to remain silent, nor
did he have the advice of family, friends or counsel during
his confinement. He was not promptly arraigned as Indiana law requires.
During this confinement, petitioner was held in the
county jail. The first two days he was placed in solitary
confinement in a cell known among the prisoners as "the
hole." There was no place on which to sit or sleep except
the floor. Throughout this six-day confinement petitioner was subjected each day, except Sunday, to long
periods of interrogation. He was moved to the State
Police Headquarters for these questionings. The question period would usually begin about six o'clock in the
evening, except for the first night when it began about
eleven thirty. Each question period would extend to
two or three o'clock the following morning. These interrogations were conducted by relays of small groups of
officers. On several occasions petitioner was given liedetector tests. Following the evening's interrogation, he
would be returned to the county jail. Even then he
was not always given respite until the next evening's
ordeal commenced. He was subjected to intermittent

WATTS v. INDIANA.
49

Opinion of

JACKSON,

J.

questioning during the day, and on three afternoons he
was driven about the town for several hours by the police
in an attempt to elicit further information and to reconstruct petitioner's activities the day of the crime.
It was about two or three o'clock Tuesday morning
after about seven hours' interrogation that petitioner
gave the confession used against him over objection at
his trial. This was after six days of confinement.
It would be naive to think that this protective custody
was less than the inquisition. The man was held until
he broke. Then and only then was he arraigned and
given the protection which the law provides all accused.
Detention without arraignment is a time-honored method
for keeping an accused under the exclusive control of
the police. They can then operate at their leisure. The
accused is wholly at their mercy. He is without the
aid of counsel or friends; and he is denied the protection
of the magistrate. We should unequivocally condemn
the procedure and stand ready to outlaw, as we did in
Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S. 401, and Haley v. Ohio,
332 U. S. 596, any confession obtained during the period
of the unlawful detention. The procedure breeds coerced
confessions. It is the root of the evil. It is the procedure without which the inquisition could not flourish in
the country.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurring in the result in No.
610 and dissenting in Nos. 76 and 107.*
These three cases, from widely separated states, present essentially the same problem. Its recurrence suggests that it has roots in some condition fundamental and
general to our criminal system.
*[For other opinions in No. 76, Harris v. South Carolina,and No.
107, Turner v. Pennsylvania, see post, pp. 68, 62.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

JACKSON,

J.

338 U. S.

In each case police were confronted with one or more
brutal murders which the authorities were under the
highest duty to solve. Each of these murders was unwitnessed, and the only positive knowledge on which a
solution could be based was possessed by the killer. In
each there was reasonable ground to suspect an individual
but not enough legal evidence to charge him with guilt.
In each the police attempted to meet the situation by
taking the suspect into custody and interrogating him.
This extended over varying periods. In each, confessions were made and received in evidence at the trial.
Checked with external evidence, they are inherently believable, and were not shaken as to truth by anything
that occurred at the trial. Each confessor was convicted
by a jury and state courts affirmed. This Court sets all
three convictions aside.
The seriousness of the Court's judgment is that no one
suggests that any course held promise of solution of these
murders other than to take the suspect into custody for
questioning. The alternative was to close the books on
the crime and forget it, with the suspect at large. This
is a grave choice for a society in which two-thirds of the
murders already are closed out as insoluble.
A concurring opinion, however, goes to the very limit
and seems to declare for outlawing any confession, however freely given, if obtained during a period of custody
between arrest and arraignment-which, in practice,
means all of them.
Others would strike down these confessions because
of conditions which they say make them "involuntary."
In this, on only a printed record, they pit their judgment
against that of the trial judge and the jury. Both, with
the great advantage of hearing and seeing the confessor
and also the officers whose conduct and bearing toward
him is in question, have found that the confessions were
voluntary. In addition, the majority overrule in each

WATTS v. INDIANA.
49

Opinion of

JACKSON,

J.

case one or more state appellate courts, which have the
same limited opportunity to know the truth that we do.
Amid much that is irrelevant or trivial, one serious situation seems to me to stand out in these cases. The suspect neither had nor was advised of his right to get
counsel. This presents a real dilemma in a free society.
To subject one without counsel to questioning which may
and is intended to convict him, is a real peril to individual
freedom. To bring in a lawyer means a real peril to solution of the crime, because, under our adversary system,
he deems that his sole duty is to protect his client-guilty
or innocent-and that in such a capacity he owes no duty
whatever to help society solve its crime problem. Under
this conception of criminal procedure, any lawyer worth
his salt will tell the suspect in no uncertain terms to make
no statement to police under any circumstances.
If the State may arrest on suspicion and interrogate
without counsel, there is no denying the fact that it
largely negates the benefits of the constitutional guaranty
of the right to assistance of counsel. Any lawyer who
has ever been called into a case after his client has "told
all" and turned any evidence he has over to the Government, knows how helpless he is to protect his client against
the facts thus disclosed.
I suppose the view one takes will turn on what one
thinks should be the right of an accused person against
the State. Is it his right to have the judgment on the
facts? Or is it his right to have a judgment based on
only such evidence as he cannot conceal from the authorities, who cannot compel him to testify in court and also
cannot question him before? Our system comes close to
the latter by any interpretation, for the defendant is
shielded by such safeguards as no system of law except
the Anglo-American concedes to him.
Of course, no confession that has been obtained by any
form of physical violence to the person is reliable and

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

JACKSON, J.

338 U. S.

hence no conviction should rest upon one obtained in
that manner. Such treatment not only breaks the will to
conceal or lie, but may even break the will to stand by
the truth. Nor is it questioned that the same result can
sometimes be achieved by threats, promises, or inducements, which torture the mind but put no scar on the
body. If the opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER in
the Watts case were based solely on the State's admissions
as to the treatment of Watts, I should not disagree. But
if ultimate quest in a criminal trial is the truth and if the
circumstances indicate no violence or threats of it, should
society be deprived of the suspect's help in solving a
crime merely because he was confined and questioned
when uncounseled?
We must not overlook that, in these as in some previous
cases, once a confession is obtained it supplies ways of
verifying its trustworthiness. In these cases before us
the verification is sufficient to leave me in no doubt that
the admissions of guilt were genuine and truthful. Such
corroboration consists in one case of finding a weapon
where the accused has said he hid it, and in others
that conditions which could only have been known to
one who was implicated correspond with his story. It is
possible, but it is rare, that a confession, if repudiated on
the trial, standing alone will convict unless there is
external proof of its verity.
In all such cases, along with other conditions criticized,
the continuity and duration of the questioning is invoked
and it is called an "inquiry," "inquest" or "inquisition,"
depending mainly on the emotional state of the writer.
But as in some of the cases here, if interrogation is permissible at all, there are sound reasons for prolonging
it-which the opinions here ignore. The suspect at first
perhaps makes an effort to exculpate himself by alibis or
other statements. These are verified, found false, and
he is then confronted with his falsehood. Sometimes

WATTS v. INDIANA.
49

Opinion

of JACKSON, J.

(though such cases do not reach us) verification proves
them true or credible and the suspect is released. Sometimes, as here, more than one crime is involved. The
duration of an interrogation may well depend on the
temperament, shrewdness and cunning of the accused and
the competence of the examiner. But, assuming a right
to examine at all, the right must include what is made
reagonably necessary by the facts of the particular case.
If the right of interrogation be admitted, then it seems
to me that we must leave it to trial judges and juries
and state appellate courts to decide individual cases,
unless they show some want of proper standards of decision. I find nothing to indicate that any of the courts
below in these cases did not have a correct understanding
of the Fourteenth Amendment, unless this Court thinks
it means absolute prohibition of interrogation while in
custody before arraignment.
I suppose no one would doubt that our Constitution
and Bill of Rights, grounded in revolt against the arbitrary measures of George III and in the philosophy of
the French Revolution, represent the maximum restrictions upon the power of organized society over the individual that are compatible with the maintenance of
organized society itself. They were so intended and
should be so interpreted. It cannot be denied that, even
if construed as these provisions traditionally have been,
they contain an aggregate of restrictions which seriously
limit the power of society to solve such crimes as confront
us in these cases. Those restrictions we should not for
that reason cast aside, but that is good reason for indulging
in no unnecessary expansion of them.
I doubt very much if they require us to hold that the
State may not take into custody and question one suspected reasonably of an unwitnessed murder. If it does,
the people of this country must discipline themselves to
seeing their police stand by helplessly while those sus860926 O-50----I

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

338 U. S.

pected of murder prowl about unmolested. Is it a necessary price to pay for the fairness which we know as "due
process of law"? And if not a necessary one, should it
be demanded by this Court? I do not know the ultimate
answer to these questions; but, for the present, I should
not increase the handicap on society.

TURNER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 107.

Argued November 16-17, 1948.-Decided June 27, 1949.

Petitioner was arrested on suspicion and held for five days without
arraignment, without the aid of counsel or friends and without
being advised of his constitutional rights. Meanwhile, he was
interrogated by relays of police officers, sometimes during both
the day and the night, until he confessed to murder. It was
admitted that arraignment was purposely delayed until a confession could be obtained. At his trial in a state court, the confession was admitted in evidence over his objection and he was
convicted. Held: The use at the trial of a confession thus
obtained violated the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment and the conviction is reversed. Watts v. Indiana,
ante, p. 49. Pp. 63-66.
358 Pa. 350, 58 A. 2d 61, reversed.

The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirmed petitioner's conviction for murder, notwithstanding his claim
that his confession was procured under circumstances
rendering its admission in evidence a denial of due process
of law. 358 Pa. 350, 58 A. 2d 61. This Court granted
certiorari. 334 U. S. 858. Reversed, p. 66.
Edwin P. Rome argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief was Clinton Budd Palmer.
Colbert C. McClain argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was John H. Maurer.

