OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

338 U. S.

LUSTIG v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD

CIRCUIT.

No. 1389, Oct. Term, 1946. Argued April 19, 1948.-Reargued
October 19, 1948.-Decided June 27, 1949.
Notified by city police and a hotel manager that counterfeiting of
currency apparently was being carried on in a hotel room for
which petitioner and another were registered under assumed names,
a Secret Service Agent went there and looked through the keyhole.
He reported to the city police that he saw no evidence of currency
counterfeiting but that he was confident that "something was
going on." Suspecting that the occupants were counterfeiting
race-track tickets and desiring to "get into that room and find
out what was in there," city police obtained warrants for their
arrest for violations of a city ordinance requiring "known criminals" to register with the police; entered the room in their absence;
searched it; and found evidence of currency counterfeiting. The

Secret Service Agent was not present when this took place; but
he arrived later, examined the evidence, and was present when
petitioner and his companion arrived and were arrested and
searched by city police, who turned the articles evidencing
counterfeiting of currency over to the Secret Service Agent. This
evidence was admitted over petitioner's objection in his trial in
a federal court and he was convicted for counterfeiting. Held:
This evidence should not have been admitted and the conviction
is reversed. Pp. 75-80.
159 F. 2d 798, reversed.

Petitioner's conviction of counterfeiting was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals. 159 F. 2d 798. This Court
denied certiorari, 331 U. S. 853, but, on rehearing, vacated
that order and granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 835. Reversed, p. 80.
Edward Halle argued the cause and filed the briefs
for petitioner.

LUSTIG v. UNITED STATES.
74

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief on the original
argument were Assistant Attorney General Quinn, Robert S. Erdahl, Irving S. Shapiro and Philip R. Monahan.
With him on the brief on the reargument were Assistant
Attorney General Campbell, Mr. Erdahl and Josephine
H. Klein.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER announced the judgment
of the Court and an opinion in which MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

join.
This is a prosecution under the counterfeiting statutes.
Rev. Stat. ยง 5430, 35 Stat. 1088, 1116, 18 U. S. C. (1946
ed.) ยง 264 (now ยง 474). The sole question before us is
the correctness of the denial of a pretrial motion, sustained by the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit,
159 F. 2d 798, to suppress evidence claimed to have been
seized in contravention of the Fourth Amendment as it
is to be applied under the doctrine of Byars v. United
States, 273 U. S. 28.'
Since the legal issue turns on the precise circumstances
of this case they must be stated with particularity.
At about 2 p. m. on Sunday, March 10, 1946, Secret
Service Agent Greene received two telephone calls, one
from the police of Camden, New Jersey, the other from
the manager of a hotel in that city, indicating violations
of the counterfeiting statutes being carried on in Room
402 of the hotel. Lustig, the petitioner here, and one
Reynolds were registered for this room under assumed
'After this Court denied a petition for writ of certiorari, a petition for rehearing was granted. The order entered June 16, 1947,
331 U. S. 853, denying certiorari was vacated and the petition for
writ of certiorari to the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit was
granted on February 16, 1948. 333 U. S. 835.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

338 U. S.

names. It is to be noted that the Secret Service is
the agency of the Government charged with enforcement of the laws pertaining to counterfeiting. On looking through the keyhole of the suspect room after reaching the hotel, Greene saw Lustig, two brief cases and
a large suitcase, but no evidence pertinent to counterfeiting. He questioned the chambermaid whose suspicions had led to this investigation. She recounted the
hearing of noises "like glass hitting against glass or metal
hitting against metal" emanating from the suspect room.
She also remarked that she had seen what looked like
money on the table.
Greene thereupon reported to Detective Arthur of the
Camden police at the Camden Police Station that he had
seen no evidence of counterfeiting but was confident that
"something was going on." Arthur reported the affair by
telephone to his superior, Captain Koerner, at his home,
who then came to the police station. In his account of
the affair, Greene gave to Koerner the names under which
the occupants of the room had registered. In reply to
inquiry by Captain Koerner, Sergeant Murphy of the
Camden police stated that one of the names was that
of a "racehorse man or a tout or a bookie." After verifying the names on the hotel register and on the assumption
that the occupants of the room "might be trying to counterfeit race-track tickets" rather than currency, Koerner
secured warrants for the arrest of persons bearing the
names on the register in order to "get into that room and
find out what was in there." The offense charged against
those bearing the assumed names was the violation of a
Camden ordinance requiring "known criminals" to register with the local police within twenty-four hours after
their arrival in town. At about four o'clock in the afternoon of the same day, Koerner and three city detectives
secured a key from the manager of the hotel and entered
Room 402. The police officers proceeded to empty the

LUSTIG v. UNITED STATES.
74

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

bags and the drawers of a bureau and thus came upon the
evidence sought to be suppressed. What they found indicated counterfeiting of currency rather than of racetrack tickets.
During all this time, Greene had remained at police
headquarters because he "was curious to see what they
would find." On finding what they did find, Koerner
sent word to Greene, who came to the hotel and examined
the evidence in controversy. When Lustig and Reynolds
eventually returned they were arrested and searched by
the detectives. As various articles were taken out of
their pockets, those deemed to have bearing on counterfeiting currency were turned over to Greene. He observed that the ink on a $100 bill taken from Reynolds
had not been tampered with. Greene was trying to discover what had been used to make the impression on
the "similitude" found in the room. After the search
was completed, Greene and the city police gathered up
the articles revealed by the search and carried them to
the police station. Some of these articles were given to
Greene before he left Room 402; all were eventually
turned over to him.
We are confronted by a ruling of the District Court,
sustained by the Court of Appeals, admitting the evidence. But the question before us is not foreclosed by
the respect to be accorded to a ruling on an issue of fact
by the trial court until analysis discloses that the ruling
was merely on an issue of fact and that no issue of law
was entwined in the ruling. Insofar as what the lower
courts found as facts may properly be so regarded, they
are to be accepted; but their constitutional significance is
another matter.
On the basis of what was before him, the trial judge
admitted the evidence because he did not "see any connivance or arrangement on the part of the Federal officers
to have an illegal search made to get evidence they could
860926 0-50-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

not secure under the Federal law."

J.

338 U. S.

We therefore accept
as a fact that Greene did not request the search, that,
beyond indicating to the local police that there was something wrong, he was not the moving force of the search,
and that the search was not undertaken by the police
to help enforcement of a federal law. But search is a
functional, not merely a physical, process. Search is not
completed until effective appropriation, as part of an uninterrupted transaction, is made of illicitly obtained objects for subsequent proof of an offense. Greene's selection of the evidence deemed important for use in a federal
prosecution for counterfeiting, as part of the entire
transaction in Room 402, was not severable, and therefore was part of the search carried on in that room. The
uncontroverted facts show that before the search was concluded Greene was called in, and although he himself
did not help to empty the physical containers of the seized
articles he did share in the critical examination of the
uncovered articles as the physical search proceeded. It
surely can make no difference whether a state officer turns
up the evidence and hands it over to a federal agent for
his critical inspection with the view to its use in a federal
prosecution, or the federal agent himself takes the articles out of a bag. It would trivialize law to base legal
significance on such a differentiation. Had Greene accompanied the city police to the hotel, his participation
could not be open to question even though the door of
Room 402 had not been opened by him. See Johnson
v. United States, 333 U. S. 10. To differentiate between
participation from the beginning of an illegal search and
joining it before it had run its course, would be to draw
too fine a line in the application of the prohibition of the
Fourth Amendment as interpreted in Byars v. United
States, supra, 273 U. S.28.
The crux of that doctrine is that a search is a search
by a federal official if he had a hand in it; it is not a

LUSTIG v. UNITED STATES.
74

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

search by a federal official if evidence secured by state
authorities is turned over to the federal authorities on
a silver platter. The decisive factor in determining the
applicability of the Byars case is the actuality of a share
by a federal official in the total enterprise of securing
and selecting evidence by other than sanctioned means.
It is immaterial whether a federal agent originated the
idea or joined in it while the search was in progress. So
long as he was in it before the object of the search was
completely accomplished, he must be deemed to have
participated in it. Where there is participation on the
part of federal officers it is not necessary to consider what
would be the result if the search had been conducted
entirely by State officers. Evidence secured through such
federal participation is inadmissible for the same considerations as those which made Weeks v. United States, 232
U. S. 383, the governing principle in federal prosecutions.
Though state officers preceded Greene in illegally rummaging through the bags and bureau drawers in Room
402, they concerned themselves especially with turning up
evidence of violations of the federal counterfeiting laws
after Greene joined them. He was an expert in counterfeiting matters and had a vital share in sifting the evidence as the search proceeded. He exercised an expert's
discretion in selecting or rejecting evidence that bore on
counterfeiting. The fact that state officers preceded him
in breach of the rights of privacy does not negative the
legal significance of this collaboration in the illegal enterprise before it had run its course. Greene himself acknowledged such participation by his remark about
"leaving the room after we had gathered all this evidence
together."
Nor is the search here defensible as incidental to a lawful arrest. Greene never made the arrest, he knew that
Lustig and Reynolds were not present when he entered
their room and he had an active hand in the continuation

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

of the search without warrant before Lustig and Reynolds
had returned. The ruling in Davis v. United States, 328
U. S. 582, does not come into play. Neither is it material
that Greene may have been informed as to what he was
likely to find before he joined the searchers. Vindicated
anticipation of what an illegal search may reveal does not
validate a search otherwise illegal. Trupiano v. United
States, 334 U. S. 699, 708-9. With every respect for the
rulings of the lower court, we find that the unquestioned
facts disclose that the evidence on which the conviction
rests was illicit and the motion to suppress it should have
been granted.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the judgment of the
Court substantially for reasons set out in his dissent in
Feldman v. United States, 322 U. S. 487, 494.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,
LAS

and MR.

with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGjoin, concurring.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER finds it unnecessary to decide whether an illegal search by state officers bars the
introduction of the fruits of the search in a federal court.
I join in his opinion, and in the judgment of reversal.
But my dissenting views in Wolf v. Colorado, ante, p. 25,
decided this day, make clear my position on the question
he reserves. In my opinion the important consideration
is the presence of an illegal search. Whether state or
federal officials did the searching is of no consequence to
the defendant, and it should make no difference to us.
MR. JUSTICE REED, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE BURTON join,

dissenting.
My understanding of the rule as to the use of evidence
in a federal criminal trial obtained by state officers through

LUSTIG v. UNITED STATES.
74

REED,

J., dissenting.

a search and seizure conducted by them under state
authority is this.
"While it is true that the mere participation in a state
search of one who is a federal officer does not render it
a federal undertaking, the court must be vigilant to
scrutinize the attendant facts with an eye to detect and
a hand to prevent violations of the Constitution by circuitous and indirect methods." Byars v. United States,
273 U. S. 28, 32. In the Byars opinion this Court went
on to say that the federal government had the right "to
avail itself of evidence improperly seized by state officers
operating entirely upon their own account. But the rule
is otherwise when the federal government itself, through
its agents acting as such, participates in the wrongful
search and seizure." P. 33. This is the rule which the
Court reaffirms today.
It is the application of that rule to the facts of this
case which causes me to dissent. Although it may seem
only a difference of view as to the facts of a particular
case, it becomes important in the administration of the
criminal law. If federal peace officers are to be restricted
in their duties to the extent indicated in the opinion, they
should have full warning so that their work in detecting
crime will not be frustrated through the officer's inadvertence in accepting evidence turned over to him by state
officers. The trial court found that Greene did not participate in the search and seizure. We should accept that
finding. If we undertake to reexamine the testimony
to see whether there was participation by Greene, I should
reach the same conclusion as the lower courts did.
In my view Secret Service Agent Greene did not participate in this search and seizure and the motion to
suppress the evidence obtained was properly overruled
in the trial court, and the trial court's action was properly
sustained in the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

The Court accepts "as a fact that Greene did not request the search, that, beyond indicating to the local
police that there was something wrong, he was not the
moving force of the search, and that the search was not
undertaken by the police to help enforcement of a federal
law." The record shows clearly to me that Agent Greene
did not participate in the search and seizure.

Only state police entered the room of Lustig, opened
his brief cases and found all the articles useful in counterfeiting. It was not until after all the articles were found
that were offered in evidence that Agent Greene was
called.' It was stated thus in the brief for appellant:
"When he arrived at the hotel, all of the material that

had been taken out of the brief case was on the bed.
Capt. Koerner and Sgt. Murphy then put the exhibits
back in the brief cases." This was Greene's testimony.
Greene examined the articles that had been taken by

the state police from the satchels. He then left the
room and returned as Lustig and his companion Reynolds
were in the act of opening the door to Room 402 where

the state officers were. The state officers then arrested
Reynolds and Lustig on a warrant for a state offense.
The prisoners were searched. On Reynolds a $100 bill
was found that was shown to Agent Greene by Captain
ITestimony of Captain Koerner:
"Q. After you discovered these articles, what (lid you do?
"A. I called agent Greene, of the United States Secret Service.
"Greene came over in the neighborhood of five o'clock after we
made a thorough search and found all this evidence I have presented."
Testimony of Sergeant Murphy:
"Q. When did Mr. Greene come there?
"A. After we searched the room, seeing what was in it, and finding
the three notes, I talked to Captain Koerner and I told him we had
enough to charge him with a Federal violation, and I called Mr.
Greene from the hotel and explained to him over the telephone just
about what we had found, and he came over later."

LUSTIG v. UNITED STATES.
74

REED,

J., dissenting.

Koerner.! The $100 bill had not been tampered with,
was not evidence against Lustig and has nothing to do
with the case against him.
Unless the fact that Agent Greene looked at the evidence secured by the state police before it was removed
from the room involves the United States in the search
and seizure, the lower courts were correct in holding that
Agent Greene had no part in the search and seizure.
Greene did not "share in the critical examination of the
uncovered articles as the physical search proceeded." '
The search had ended before he came into the room.
The subsequent arrest, examination, and the $100 bill
found on Reynolds had nothing to do with the alleged
unlawful search and seizure. The search and seizure had
run its course and we should not hold that the appearance
of a federal officer at the place of unlawful search and
seizure after evidence has been found makes him a participant in the act. This evidence should not be suppressed and the conviction of Lustig should be affirmed.

Testimony of Agent Greene:
"Q. There was a hundred dollar bill found on Mr. Reynolds?
"A. Well, a new one.
"Q. Did you match the hundred dollar bill with that impression?
"A. No, sir. I observed that the ink on this new hundred dollar
bill had not been tampered with. In other words, the bill was new
in appearance and I concluded it was not the pattern bill from which
this hundred dollars was made.
"Q. You gave the hundred dollars did you to Mr. Reynolds?
"A. No, sir. At the time I looked at the bill it was in Captain
Koerner's possession."
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, ante, p. 78.
-

