EISLER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

EISLER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 255.

Argued March 28, 1949.-Decided June 27, 1949.

In view of petitioner's flight from the country after the grant of his
petition for writ of certiorari and after the submission of the cause
on the merits, which may have rendered moot any judgment on
the merits, the cause will be removed from the docket and, after
this Term, will be left off the docket until a direction to the contrary shall issue. P. 190.

Petitioner was convicted in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia for a violation of
R. S. ยง 102, as amended, 2 U. S. C. ยง 192. The United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit affirmed the conviction. 83 U. S. App. D. C.
315, 170 F. 2d 273. This Court granted certiorari. 335
U. S. 857. The cause is removed from the docket until
further order of the Court, p. 190.
David Rein and Abraham J. Isserman argued the cause
for petitioner. With them on the brief were Carol King
and Joseph Forer.
Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Assistant
Attorney General Campbell, Robert L. Stern, Robert S.
Erdahl and Harold D. Cohen. Attorney General Clark
was also with Mr. Perlman on a memorandum.
Briefs of amici curiae supporting petitioner were filed
by Arthur Garfield Hays and Osmond K. Fraenkel for
the American Civil Liberties Union; Lee Epstein for the
American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born;
Robert W. Kenny, Bartley C. Crum and Martin Popper
for Herbert Biberman et al.; Robert J. Silberstein and
86926 O-50----19

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

Arthur G. Silverman for the National Lawyers Guild;
and 0. John Rogge and Benedict Wolf for Edward K.
Barsky et al.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner's flight from the country after the grant of
his petition for writ of certiorari and after the submission
of his cause on the merits necessitates a decision as to
the disposition now to be made of this case. Since the
petitioner by his own volition may have rendered moot
any judgment on the merits, we must, as a matter of
our own practice, decide whether the submission should
be set aside and the writ of certiorari dismissed or whether
we should postpone review indefinitely by ordering the
case removed from the docket, pending the return of the
fugitive.
Our practice, however, has been to order such cases
to be removed from the docket. Smith v. United States,
94 U. S. 97; Bonahan v. Nebraska, 125 U. S. 692. We
adhere to those precedents. Accordingly after this term
the cause will be left off the docket until a direction to
the contrary shall issue.
While MR. JUSTICE BURTON has not participated in the
consideration of the merits of this case, he has participated in this procedural action based upon the memorandum filed by the United States of America calling
the attention of the Court to the petitioner's flight from
justice.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

JUSTICE

with whom THE CHIEF

joins, dissenting.

The Government has brought to the Court's attention
the circumstances which, in its view, have deprived the
Court of jurisdiction to adjudicate this case. Accordingly
the Government, by way of suggestion, has moved the
Court for its dismissal. The motion should be granted
for the following reasons:

EISLER v. UNITED STATES.
189

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

1. Eisler was convicted for contempt of Congress by the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia
and invoked the jurisdiction of this Court by a petition for
certiorari filed August 31, 1948, seeking the determination of questions some of which at least we regarded as
important enough to warrant review. We accordingly
granted his petition. 335 U. S.857. The case was argued
March 28, 1949, and awaited only final disposition when,
on May 6, 1949, the petitioner fled the United States.
On May 13, the Attorney General requested the Secretary of State to make application through the usual
diplomatic channels for the return of Eisler to the United
States. That application was made, it was resisted by
Eisler, and on May 27 the English court with final authority in such matters dismissed it on the ground that
the crime for which Eisler's extradition was soughtthe making of false statements in ani application for an
exit permit-was not extraditable. Since then Eisler
has formally repudiated the jurisdiction of this country
and has been elected to political office in a foreign country.
The Attorney General has abandoned all attempts to secure his return. The upshot is that the abstract questions brought before the Court by Eisler are no longer
attached to any litigant. No matter remains before us
as to which we could issue process.
2. Very early after the Republic was founded it was
confronted by an emergency in which its very existence
was threatened. Serious questions touching the legal
power of the President to deal with the crisis arose, and
Washington sought answers to these legal questions from
this Court. Even under circumstances so compelling, the
first Chief Justice and his Associates had to deny President Washington's request for aid because the Constitution gave this Court no power to give answers to legal
questions as such but merely the authority to decide them
when a litigant was before the Court. See 3 Johnston,
Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay 486

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

(1891); 10 Sparks, Writings of George Washington 542
(1840). That recognition of the limited power of this
Court has been unquestioned ever since 1793. It has
been the principle by which cases formally before the
Court have again and again been dismissed as beyond
its jurisdiction. The circumstances which have called
forth application of the principle have varied greatly, but
all the instances of its application illustrate and confirm
the basic limitation under which this Court functions,
namely, that it can entertain a case and decide it only
if there is a litigant before it against whom the Court
may enforce its decision.
3. If legal questions brought by a litigant are to remain
here, the litigant must stay with them. When he withdraws himself from the power of the Court to enforce its
judgment, he also withdraws the questions which he had
submitted to the Court's adjudication. The questions
brought by Eisler have evaporated so far as the Court's
power to deal with them is concerned because the rights
and obligations of a litigant no longer depend on their
answer. The Court therefore lacks jurisdiction as it lacked
jurisdiction to answer Washington's questions. Not to
dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction can only mean
that the Court has jurisdiction and therefore must retain
the case. And this, in turn, can only mean that the
Court's eventual action must await the pleasure of Eisler
and of every future litigant who, having invoked the
Court's jurisdiction, withdraws himself beyond the means
of asserting it. Eisler's political affiliation, of course, does
not distinguish him from other litigants. It was irrelevant when the Court took his case at a time that it had
jurisdiction over him; it is equally irrelevant to recognition of the fact that Eisler has put himself definitively
beyond the Court's process were it to decide against him.
Since the Court is without power effectively to decide
against him, it is without power to decide at all. In

EISLER v. UNITED STATES.
189

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

short, the Court no longer has jurisdiction, and it would
be equally without jurisdiction if Eisler were the Bourbon
pretender.
4. This case has nothing in common with instances cited
as precedent for leaving it off the docket until a direction to the contrary shall issue. Smith v. United States,
94 U. S. 97; Bonahan v. Nebraska, 125 U. S. 692. In
those cases convicts had broken jail while their cases were
pending in this Court and remained at large. As a matter of practical good sense, apparently upon informal
suggestion, the Court suspended disposition of the cases
until it should receive word from the sheriff who reported
the escape that a recapture had been accomplished.
Such jailbreaks, indeed, as often as not imply a merely
temporary separation from confinement. But whatever
may be thought of such a light-reined way of dealing with
a jailbreak from our local jails, the situation presented
by this case is totally different. Here we have the most
formal kind of resistance to the jurisdiction of this Court.
It has been adjudicated successful, and the Attorney General has had to yield. Since the Court's power to reassert
jurisdiction has been incontestably denied, the motion
should be granted.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting.

The petitioner is an alien, a Communist, and a fugitive
from justice. He was convicted of willful default before
a Committee of Congress. We decided to hear this case
after determining that the issues he presented were of
importance. We heard argument, read briefs, and all but
made the announcement of our decision.
Then the petitioner left the country. Efforts at extradition in Great Britain were unsuccessful. The petitioner is now beyond the territorial jurisdiction of this
Court. It is argued that we are therefore without jurisdiction in the case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

We can decide only cases or controversies. A moot case
is not a "case" within the meaning of Art. III. United
States v. Evans, 213 U. S. 297. But a moot case is one
in which the particular controversy confronting the Court
has ended. That is not true when a prisoner has simply
escaped. We are not at liberty to assume that all escaped defendants will never return to the jurisdiction.
And the importance of a criminal judgment is not limited to the imprisonment of the defendant. Thus an
alien convicted of crime is excluded from admission to the
United States, 8 U. S. C. ยง 136 (e).
Since the question is one of jurisdiction, the unlikelihood of prejudice to this petitioner is irrelevant. Equally
irrelevant on the question of mootness is President Washington's request for an advisory opinion. That the case
may become moot if a defendant does not return does
not distinguish it from any other case we decide. For
subsequent events may render any decision nugatory.
The petitioner having subjected himself to our jurisdiction by filing a petition for review, he cannot now revoke
or nullify it and thus prevent an adjudication of the
questions at issue merely by leaving the country and
repudiating its authority. Thus I entirely agree with
those of my brethren who believe we have jurisdiction.
But the Court adopts another alternative. It exercises its discretion and refuses to decide the issue. It
is clear, however, as MR. JUSTICE JACKSON points out,
that it is the importance of the legal issues, not the
parties, which bring the case to this Court. Those issues
did not leave when Eisler did. They remain here for
decision; they are of the utmost importance to the profession and to the public.
Law is at its loftiest when it examines claimed injustice
even at the instance of one to whom the public is bitterly
hostile. We should be loath to shirk our obligations,
whatever the creed of the particular petitioner. Our

EISLER v. UNITED STATES.
189

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

country takes pride in requiring of its institutions the
examination and correction of alleged injustice whenever
it occurs. We should not permit an affront of this sort
to distract us from the performance of our constitutional
duties.
I dissent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

I cannot agree that a decision of Eisler's case should
be indefinitely deferred, awaiting what I do not know.
The case is fully submitted and all that remains is for
members of the Court to hand down their opinions and
the decision. Eisler's presence for that would be neither
necessary nor usual. The case has reached this stage at
considerable detriment to the country, since this Court's
grant of his petition for review was what delayed Eisler's
commencement of sentence and afforded him opportunity
to escape. If ever there were good reasons to grant him
a review, they are equally good reasons for now deciding
its issues.
The Rules of this Court provide that we shall grant
a petition for review here only where there are "special
and important reasons therefor." They limit such cases
to those that present "a question of general importance . . . which has not been, but should be, settled by

this court." Rule 38. (Emphasis supplied.)
Under our practice, the grant of Eisler's petition meant
that four Justices of this Court, at least, were in agreement that the questions he raised were of this description. If they were then, they are still. His petition
challenged the power of Congress and its investigating
committees to hold, and to control the procedures of,
investigations of this nature. These questions are recurring ones, certain to be repeated, for the grant of a
review has cast doubt not only on the validity of Eisler's
conviction but upon congressional procedures as well.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

No one can know what the law is until this case is decided
or until someone can carry a like case through the two
lower courts again to get the question here.
Decision at this time is not urged as a favor to Eisler.
If only his interests were involved, they might well be
forfeited by his flight. But it is due to Congress and to
future witnesses before its committees that we hand down
a final decision. I therefore dissent from an expedient
that lends added credence to Eisler's petition, which I
think is without legal merit. I do not think we can run
away from the case just because Eisler has.
I should not want to be understood as approving the
use that the Committee on Un-American Activities has
frequently made of its power. But I think it would be
an unwarranted act of judicial usurpation to strip Congress of its investigatory power, or to assume for the
courts the function of supervising congressional committees. I should affirm the judgment below and leave
the responsibility for the behavior of its committees
squarely on the shoulders of Congress.-

'What the Congress can with safety do, after this Court's decision
in Christoffel v. United States, ante, p. 84, seems to present a good
question.

