OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Syllabus.

338 U. S.

CARTER v. ATLANTA & ST. ANDREWS BAY
RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH

No. 23.

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 14, 1949.-Decided December 19, 1949.

In this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the
Safety Appliance Act, based upon a charge of negligence and a
charge of a violation of the Safety Appliance Act through the
failure of an automatic coupler, held:
1. It was error to take from the jury the phase of the case involving the alleged violation of the Safety Appliance Act, since there
was evidence upon which a jury could find a causal relation between
the failure of the coupler and the plaintiff's injury. Pp. 433-435.
(a) The duty imposed on an interstate railroad by the Safety
Appliance Act to equip cars "with couplers coupling automatically
by impact" is an absolute duty unrelated to negligence, and the
absence of a "defect" cannot aid the railroad if the coupler was
properly set and failed to couple. Pp. 433-434.
(b) The fact that the coupler functioned. properly on other
occasions is immaterial. P. 434.
(c) Once a violation of the Safety Appliance Act is established,
only causal relation is in issue, since violation of that Act supplies
the wrongful act necessary to ground liability under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, regardless of negligence. P. 434.
(d) If the jury determines that defendant's violation of the
Safety Appliance Act is "a contributory proximate cause" of the
injury, it may find for plaintiff. P. 435.
2. In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
based on general negligence, contributory negligence does not bar
recovery but affects only the amount of damages recoverable; and
the trial court's instructions to the jury on this issue in this case
were erroneous and were prejudicial to the plaintiff. Pp. 435-437.
170 F. 2d 719, reversed.

In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
there was a verdict against plaintiff upon which the Federal District Court entered judgment for defendant. The
Court of Appeals affirmed. 170 F. 2d 719. This Court
granted certiorari. 336 U. S. 935. Reversed, p. 437.

CARTER v. ATLANTA & ST. A. B. R. CO. 431
430

Opinion of the Court.

J. Kirkman Jackson argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
B. D. Murphy argued the cause for respondent.
him on the brief was James N. Frazer.

With

MR. JUSTICE CLARK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Federal Safety Appliance Acts require railroad cars
used in interstate commerce to be equipped with couplers
coupling automatically by impact.1 This case brings before us for review another action for damages by a railroad
employee under the Safety Appliance Acts and the Federal
Employers' Liability Act.' The trial court instructed the
jury that there could be no liability based on any "defect"
in the "automatic coupling system," but submitted the
case on issues of negligence. There was a verdict against
the plaintiff upon which judgment for the railroad was
entered. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 170 F. 2d 719.
We granted certiorari because of the confusion which has
developed in the application of the two statutes. 336
U. S. 935. Our duty to review certain cases of this nature is settled. Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336 U. S. 53
(1949); Keeton v. Thompson, 326 U. S. 689 (1945); Ellis
v. Union Pacific R. Co., 329 U. S. 649 (1947).
On February 2, 1946, the petitioner was injured while
acting as "swing man" of a switching crew on the respondent railroad. The crew of five men were engaged
at night in switching operations at and near the International Paper Company plant in Panama City, Florida.
1 "It shall be unlawful for any common carrier engaged in interstate

commerce by railroad to haul or permit to be hauled or used on its
line any car used in moving interstate traffic not equipped with
couplers coupling automatically by impact, and which can be uncoupled without the necessity of men going between the ends of the
cars." 27 Stat. 531, 45 U. S. C. § 2.
2 35 Stat. 65, as amended, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51-59.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

The conductor of the crew had laid out a plan for coupling together a number of cars, some of which were
on storage tracks and one on the main line. The ultimate objective was to switch some wood rack cars loaded
with pulpwood into the wood yard of the paper concern.
In the conductor's absence petitioner was in charge of
the switching operations and attempted to carry out the
instructions given him.
The engine, after coupling in front of it a box car
followed by eight flat cars, was engaged in backing the
train of cars onto the main line, in order to couple, at
the end of the train, a Louisville & Nashville Railroad
wood rack car loaded with pulpwood. The petitioner
had previously set the brake and had opened both lips
of the coupler on the L. & N. car preparatory to attaching the car to the train. He had given the footboard man
the slow signal ahead for coupling, which had been passed
on to the engineer. The engineer brought the train forward and hit the L. & N. car in the usual manner necessary for coupling, but instead of coupling to the train
the L. & N. car started rolling down the tracks, which were,
at this point, on a downgrade.
Petitioner saw that the L. & N. car had not coupled
and ran after it for some fifty or sixty feet, climbed to
the bulkhead where the brake wheel was located, and
applied the hand brake to stop the car. He was able
to bring the car to a stop only after it had left the main
line and traveled around a curve for some six car lengths.
Looking up, he saw the train moving toward him about
twenty feet away at a speed which conflicting testimony
places at a maximum of fifteen miles per hour to a minimum of two miles per hour. Petitioner grabbed the brake
wheel to brace himself, but the train hit the L. & N. car
so violently that it threw the petitioner about six feet
down into its hold. This time the coupling was successful, and as the L. & N. car jerked from the impact some

CARTER v. ATLANTA & ST. A. B. R. CO.
430

433

Opinion of the Court.

of the pulpwood loaded in the car was pitched forward on
the petitioner, causing the alleged injuries.
The engineer testified that he did not know whether
the L. & N. car had safely coupled at the first impact.
He contended that after this impact, he received the
come-ahead signal from the petitioner, whereupon he
moved the train forward at about six miles per hour.
The testimony was in sharp conflict with reference to
this signal, as well as to other details of the incident.
Defendant moved for a directed verdict as to the failure
to couple on the ground that while the coupler failed to
couple on the initial impact, "it worked previously and
worked subsequently, and the proof shows no defect in it;
and under the finding in Western & Atlantic Railroad
Company vs. Gentile, 198 S. E. 257, that this rule of law is
laid down . . . that the failure of couplers to couple
automatically by impact is not per se a violation of this
Act . . . ." The District Court granted the motion, instructing the jury "that there is no evidence in this
case . . . from which you could properly find there was
defect in this . . . automatic coupling system on that
car." The Court of Appeals affirmed on another theory:
that the failure to couple on the first impact "was the
remote, not the proximate, cause of plaintiff's injuries."
The trial court did submit the cause on the more general
negligence allegations, and on these a verdict was returned
for the respondent. But petitioner objects to those portions of the trial court's charge covering contributory negligence. The Court of Appeals admitted that standing
alone, the charge "might possibly have been prejudicial,"
but stated that here it was "inconsequential."
In these conclusions the court below was in error.
First. Since 1893 the Congress has made it unlawful for
a railroad company such as respondent to use any car
on its line "not equipped with couplers coupling automatically by impact." This Court has repeatedly attempted

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

to make clear that this is an absolute duty unrelated
to negligence, and that the absence of a "defect" cannot aid the railroad if the coupler was properly set '
and failed to couple on the occasion in question. See
O'Donnell v. Elgin, Joliet & Eastern R. Co., 338 U. S.
384, 390 (1949), and cases cited. The fact that the coupler functioned properly on other occasions is immaterial.
But respondent contends that when the L. & N. car
came to rest after the failure of the coupler "its capacity
for doing harm was spent." The second movement, it
argues, in which the coupling worked perfectly, started
a new chain of events resulting in Carter's injury.
We cannot agree that the various events were so divisible. This was a two-pronged complaint, alleging the
right to recover under the Safety Appliance Act and the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. In this situation the
test of causal relation stated in the Employers' Liability
Act is applicable, the violation of the Appliance Act supplying the wrongful act necessary to ground liability under the F. E. L. A. See Moore v. Chesapeake & Ohio R.
Co., 291 U. S. 205, 216 (1934); O'Donnell v. Elgin, Joliet
& Eastern R. Co., supra; Coray v. Southern Pacific Co.,
335 U. S. 520 (1949). Sometimes that violation is described as "negligence per se," H. R. Rep. No. 1386, 60th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 6; San Antonio & A. P. R. Co. v. Wagner, 241 U. S. 476, 484 (1916); but we have made clear in
the O'Donnell case that that term is a confusing label for
what is simply a violation of an absolute duty.
Once the violation is established, only causal relation
is in issue. And Congress has directed liability if the
3

See Myers v. Reading Co., 331 U. S. 477, 483 (1947).
Respondent conceded, in opposing certiorari, that "the Safety
Appliance Act was violated- . . . a coupling failed to couple on impact . . . ." That statement is apparently abandoned now, for the
argument is that Carter set the coupler improperly. On the record
before us it is clear that that is a jury question.

CARTER v. ATLANTA & ST. A. B. R. CO.
430

435

Opinion of the Court.

injury resulted "in whole or in part" from defendant's
negligence or its violation of the Safety Appliance Act.
We made clear in Coray v. Southern Pacific Co., supra,
335 U. S. at 523, that if the jury determines that the
defendant's breach is "a contributory proximate cause"
of injury, it may find for the plaintiff. See also Union
Pacific R. Co. v. Hadley, 246 U. S. 330, 333 (1918);
Spokane & I. E. R. Co. v. Campbell, 241 U. S. 497, 510
(1916).
Certainly there was evidence upon which a jury could
find a causal relation between the failure to couple, the
action of petitioner in running and stopping the rolling
car, the engineer's justified assumption that the car had
coupled when in fact it had failed to do so, and the continued movement of the train into the standing car, thus
causing injury. See Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U. S. 617 (1917); Erie R. Co. v. Caldwell, 264
F. 947 (1920). It was error to take this phase of the
case from the jury.
Second. In ruling on petitioner's general negligence
allegations the trial court fell into errors in its charge on
contributory negligence' which occur so frequently that
we will discuss them briefly. The charge is replete with
phrases such as, "if you should find his [the petitioner's]
own negligence was the proximate cause of whatever injury followed," the verdict must be for the respondent.
With proper explanations, the court could have advised
the jury that if petitioner's own negligence was the sole
proximate cause of his injury, the verdict must be for
respondent; but here the court again and again used such
Our ruling here, of course, is directed at the trial court's charge
on the petitioner's general negligence allegations. In violations of
the Safety Appliance Act, no employee "shall be held to have been
," 45 U. S. C. § 53, even
guilty of contributory negligence ...
for purposes of jury comparison. See Coray v. Southern Pacific Co.,
supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

phrases as "if you should find his injury was directly or
proximately caused by his own negligence," verdict must
be for the railroad; and if you find "that his own negligence in no manner contributed to his injury"; "if you
find . . . he was not negligent in any manner," the verdict must be for the plaintiff. We are unable to say such
error was inconsequential. It violates the direct command of the Act of Congress. The "fact that the employee may have been guilty of contributory negligence
shall not bar a recovery, but the damages shall be diminished by the jury in proportion to tle amount of negligence attributable to such employee . . ." 35 Stat. 66,
45 U. S. C. § 535 The negligence of the petitioner and
that of the railroad should have been submitted to the
argues that the Court remedied these errors after
the oral charge had been given. We see no basis for that conclusion;
the Court's action at that time was equivocal at best. The record
recites the following:
"Mr.Pettus: Your Honor said if the plaintiff negligently caused
his own injury, he could not recover. If the plaintiff by his negligence proximately caused his injury, he couldn't recover. Your
Honor omitted 'sole'. In other words, if the plaintiff's negligence
were the sole proximate cause, of course he couldn't recover.
"The Court: I will modify it to that extent. That simply means
whether his own negligence was wholly responsible for his injury.
If he is totally responsible, it would not make any difference as to
negligence on the other side. ...
"Mr. Pettus: We except to that latter part of your Honor's charge,
'would not make any difference on the other side.' We except to
your Honor's charge that there was no defect in the hand brake, and
also that portion of your Honor's charge that the plaintiff negligently
set the hand brake, automatic coupling, and that was the proximate
cause, without limiting it and saying it was the sole cause. In other
words, was the proximate cause and not the sole cause. And then
when your Honor was reading a written charge you said, in explanation, 'if the direct or proximate cause of plaintiff's own negligence,'
and we except to that on the ground you did not say it must be the
sole cause. We asked you an explanatory charge on that rule, if
5Respondent

CARTER v. ATLANTA & ST. A. B. R. CO.
430

Opinion of

437

FRANKFURTER, J.

jury, and in the light of this comparison a verdict reached
that would do justice to all concerned. See Tiller v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 65 (1943).
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED dissents. In his view the failure of
the automatic coupler to fasten on the first impact was
not a proximate cause of the injury to petitioner. The
failure did not contribute to the injury. That was
caused by a too rapid coupling on the second effort.
Any deficiency in the instructions on negligence was
cured by the court's modification of the instruction set
out in note 5 of the opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER.

Properly deeming industrial injuries inherently incidental to the conduct of modern industry, the law
throughout the United States deals with them as such
on the principle of insurance, not on the principle of
negligence. The workmen's compensation laws thereby
eliminated all the inevitably casuistic efforts to apply the
concepts of "negligence,". "proximate cause" and "contributory negligence" which served well enough employeremployee relations which have long since ceased. To
apply the concepts of "negligence" and "proximate cause"
your Honor will give it at this time. I think your Honor overlooked
charging it. If you will look at the rule.
"The Court: I think I will refuse this charge.
"Mr. Pettus: Refuse it?
"The Court: Yes. Give you an exception."

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

338 U. S.

to the infinite complexities of modern industry is like
catching butterflies without a net. But as to injuries
suffered by railroad employees, courts and juries must
continue to apply these concepts so long as the anachronistic Federal Employers' Liability Act remains.
Happily, however, Congress has not said that all the
casuistries about "proximate cause" must be adjudicated
by three courts. As an indispensable requirement of the
functioning of this Court, Congress has left it to our discretion to decide whether, after a District Court and a
Court of Appeals or two courts of a State have wrestled
with the phantoms of proximate cause, this Court should
have another go at it. A law by which injuries sustained by railroad employees in the course of their employment are compensated on the basis of negligence
is bound to work injustice, and hardships in particular
situations naturally present humane opportunities for
alleviation. But no amount of stretching of negligence
concepts can change the Act's character and the mischief
that it does as a cruel survival of a by-gone era. And
it is inconsistent with the functions of this Court to
yield to such temptations by taking cases in which a
conscientious appellate court felt compelled to decide
against a railroad employee on its justifiable application of the dubious requirements of negligence, even
though a contrary view might also be taken. Where a
case involves no general principle requiring pronouncement but merely its own unique circumstances, such
alleviation is inconsistent with the criteria, set forth in
Rule 38, governing this Court's discretion in granting a
writ of certiorari.
The argument at the bar of this Court and the opinions
dealing with the merits leave no room for doubt that no
general principle is here involved. There is merely a
difference in the application of professedly settled rules

CARTER v. ATLANTA & ST. A. B. R. CO.
430

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

439

J.

to the circumstances of this particular case. Three experienced judges of the Court of Appeals have found no
error in the judgment that was rendered for the defendant. The division in this Court underlines the fact that
the three judges below could not unreasonably have entertained the view they did. I am not remotely suggesting
that this Court has not reached the right result, if it had
to deal with the merits. For me it is decisive that, since
the merits involve merely evaluation of the unique facts
in the record, the case does not fall within the proper
business of the Court.
I would therefore dismiss the writ as improvidently
granted. By not doing so, the Court encourages petitions
of this character instead of discouraging them. The
Court should save its energy for cases it necessarily must
adjudicate in order to adjudicate them with due regard
for the needs of the deliberative process. The only effective way to respect these considerations is to cease acquiescence in their disregard. See Wilkerson v. McCarthy,
336 U. S. 53, 64 (concurring opinion).

