68

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

338 U. S.

HARRIS v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 76.

Argued November 16, 1948.-Decided June 27, 1949.

Suspected of murder in South Carolina, petitioner, an illiterate negro,
was arrested in Tennessee on Friday and taken to South Carolina
on Sunday. The South Carolina sheriff had obtained a warrant
for his arrest for theft of a pistol, but it was not read to him nor
was he informed of the charge against him. Confined in a small
hot room, he was interrogated daily and nightly by relays of police
officers until he confessed to the murder on Wednesday night, after
the police had threatened to arrest his mother. Meanwhile, he
was denied counsel and access to family and friends, was not
given a preliminary hearing, and was not informed of his constitutional rights. At his trial in a state court, the confession was
admitted in evidence over his objection and he was convicted.
Held: The use of a confession obtained in this manner violated
the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the
conviction is reversed. Watts v. Indiana, ante, p. 49; Turner v.
Pennsylvania, ante, p. 62. Pp. 68-71.
212 S. C. 124, 46 S. E. 2d 682, reversed.

The Supreme Court of South Carolina affirmed petitioner's conviction for murder, notwithstanding his claim
that his confession was obtained under circumstances rendering its admission in evidence a denial of due process
of law. 212 S. C. 124, 46 S. E. 2d 682. This Court
granted certiorari.

334 U. S. 837.

Reversed, p. 71.

Julian B. Salley, Jr. and Leonard A. Williamson argued

the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.
B. D. Carter argued the cause for respoident. With
him on the brief was John M. Daniel, Attorney General
of South Carolina.
announced the judgment of
the Court and an opinion in which MR. JUSTICE MURPHY
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join.
On Sunday morning, April 28, 1946, Edward L. BenMR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

nett and his wife were killed in their store in Aiken

HARRIS v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
68

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

County, South Carolina. Bennett's last words were, "A
big negro shot me and robbed me." Petitioner, Harris,
age twenty-five, a slightly built Negro, was subsequently
indicted in the Court of General Sessions for Aiken
County and found guilty of the murder of the Bennetts.
The jury's verdict required imposition of the death sentence. The Supreme Court of South Carolina denied the
claim that a confession introduced at the trial was obtained under circumstances which precluded its admission
under the Due Process Clause and sustained the conviction, 212 S. C. 124, 46 S. E. 2d 682, by a 3-2 vote, two
judges dissenting on the ground that the facts show that
the confession "was not freely and voluntarily made."
We brought the case here to consider the validity of
this claim. 334 U. S. 837.
When the disputed testimony is resolved in favor of
the State, the following facts emerge:
The police of Aiken County spent two and a half
months in fruitless investigation of the murders. Many
suspects had been held for interrogation and then released. Suspicion was finally directed toward petitioner
by reports that he possessed a pistol and had left for Nashville, Tennessee, soon after the murders. The Sheriff of
Aiken County then obtained a warrant, ostensibly for
the purpose of arresting petitioner for the theft of his
aunt's pistol but actually to secure his return from Nashville. He was taken into custody there on Friday, July
12, 1946. No warrant was read to him and he was not
informed of the charge against him. He was brought
back to Aiken County and lodged in its jail on Sunday
afternoon at about four o'clock. He first learned that
he was suspected of the murder of Bennett on Monday
afternoon. He denied the accusation. At that time he
was briefly interrogated by the sheriff and the jailer.
On Monday night questioning began in earnest. At
least five officers worked in relays, relieving each other

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

338 U. S.

from time to time to permit respite from the stifling
heat of the cubicle in which the interrogation was conducted. Throughout the evening petitioner denied that
he had killed the Bennetts. On Tuesday the questioning
continued under the same conditions from 1:30 in the
afternoon until past one the following morning with only
an hour's interval at 5:30. On Wednesday afternoon the
Chief of the State Constabulary, with half a dozen of
his men, questioned petitioner for about an hour, and
the local authorities carried on the interrogation for three
and a half hours longer. At 6:30 that evening the examination resumed. Petitioner continued to deny implication in the killings. The sheriff then threatened
to arrest petitioner's mother for handling stolen property.
Petitioner replied, "Don't get my mother mixed up in
it and I will tell you the truth." Petitioner then stated
in substance what appears in the confession introduced
at the trial. The session ended at midnight.
Petitioner was not informed of his rights under South
Carolina law, such as the right to secure a lawyer, the
right to request a preliminary hearing, or the right to remain silent. No preliminary hearing was ever given and
his confession does not even contain the usual statement
that he was told that what he said might be used against
him. During the whole period of interrogation he was
denied the benefit of consultation with family and friends
and was surrounded by as many as a dozen members
of a dominant group in positions of authority. It is
relevant to note that Harris was an illiterate.
The trial judge in his charge told the jury that without
the confession there was no evidence which would support
a conviction and instructed them that they could consider
the confession only if they found it to have been "voluntary." Upon appeal, the highest court of the State
made a conscientious effort to measure the circumstances
under which petitioner's confession was made against the

HARRIS v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
68

DouGLAs, J., concurring.

circumstances surrounding confessions which we have
held to be the product of undue pressure. It concluded
that this confession was not so tainted. We are constrained to disagree. The systematic persistence of interrogation, the length of the periods of questioning, the
failure to advise the petitioner of his rights, the absence
of friends or disinterested persons, and the character of the
defendant constitute a complex of circumstances which
invokes the same considerations which compelled our decisions in Watts v. Indiana, ante, p. 49, and Turner v.
Pennsylvania, ante, p. 62. The judgment is accordingly
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the judgment on the
authority of Chambers v. Florida,309 U. S. 227; Ashcraft
v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143.

On the record before us and in view of the consideration
given to the evidence by the state courts and the conclusion reached,
MR. JUSTICE

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE REED
BURTON

and

believe that the judgment should

be affirmed.
[See ante, p. 57, for opinion of MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,
concurring in the result in No. 610, Watts v. Indiana,
ante, p. 49, and dissenting in this case and in No. 107,
Turner v. Pennsylvania,ante, p. 62.]
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

concurring.

The undisputed facts concerning the arrest and interrogation of the petitioner are as follows:
A storekeeper and his wife were killed in Aiken, South
Carolina. The killing seemed similar to other crimes
which had been committed in the community and which
constituted a local crime wave. Local feeling was running high and the sheriff's office was anxious to find a

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

338 U. S.

solution. Numerous persons were interrogated. Nearly
three months later suspicion fell on petitioner, because
it became known that he possessed a pistol and had left
the community for Nashville, Tennessee, shortly after the
murder had occurred. The sheriff secured a warrant of
arrest for the petitioner, allegedly for possessing a stolen
pistol. The authorities in Nashville were notified that
petitioner was wanted, and he was picked up there and
placed in custody on a Friday. On the next Sunday
he was delivered to the South Carolina officers. He was
not read the warrant of arrest, nor was he informed that
he was suspected of having committed the murder with
which he was later charged and now stands convicted.
While handcuffed, he was driven back to Aiken and
lodged in the Aiken jail late that afternoon without being
brought before a magistrate. That was Sunday. It was
not until Monday afternoon that he was informed that
he was under suspicion of having committed the murder.
He was questioned a short time. He denied his guilt.
A more extended questioning was held that night. The
next day, Tuesday, the vigor of the questioning was
increased. Petitioner was interrogated in the afternoon
and again in the evening until around midnight. It was
during this session that two incidents occurred. Petitioner had denied his guilt, but finally made a statement
implicating another negro, who denied guilt when confronted with the accusation. It was also on Tuesday
evening that one of the officers laid a hand on the petitioner. Sharp issue is taken on the nature of this act.
Petitioner contends that he was struck with force. The
officer testified that he merely placed his hand on petitioner's shoulder with no malice and that he merely
stated that he did not believe certain statements that
the petitioner had made.
On Wednesday afternoon the questioning was begun
again. Petitioner still denied guilt. Wednesday eve-

HARRIS v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
68

DOUGLAS, J.,

concurring.

ning he finally broke. The sheriff was alone with petitioner late at night. He threatened to have petitioner's
mother arrested for having stolen property. It was then
that petitioner offered to make the confession that was
eventually used against him. Petitioner made his confession, and he was then removed to the state penitentiary
for protection.
These interrogations had been held in a small room
eight feet by eleven. Small groups of different officers
conducted these interrogations, which went on and on
in the heat of the days and nights. But during this
time he was denied counsel and access to family and
friends.
This is another illustration of the use by the police
of the custody of an accused to wring a confession from
him. The confession so obtained from literate and
illiterate alike should stand condemned. See Haley v.
Ohio, 332 U. S. 596.

