226

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Syllabus.

338 U. S.

ROTH, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MICHIGAN, v.
DELANO, COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24.

Argued October 14. 1949.-Decided November 7, 1949.

The Attorney General of Michigan brought an action in a federal
district court in Michigan against the Comptroller of the Currency
and the Receiver of an insolvent national bank located in Michigan
for a declaratory judgment that the Michigan discovery and escheat
statute, as amended in 1941, applies to unclaimed dividends on
claims duly proved in liquidation. The Court of Appeals affirmed
the District Court's dismissal of the action "on the merits"; but
it was not clear whether it did so upon the ground that the Michigan statute was unconstitutional or upon the ground that it was
not intended to apply to receiverships begun before its enactment.
Moreover, the 1941 amendment has been repealed, with the possible consequence that no new suit could be maintained to enforce
it. Held: Judgment vacated and the cause remanded for appropriate action in the light of this opinion. Pp. 227-231.
(a) Since an earlier decision of the court below holding the
Michigan escheat law unconstitutional as applied to national banks,
this Court has held, in effect, that the Constitution of the United
States does not prohibit a state from escheating deposits in a
national bank located and actively doing business therein, abandoned by their owners or belonging to missing persons. Anderson
National Bank v. Luckett, 321 U. S. 233. Pp. 229-231.
(b) If the decision below rests upon earlier decisional law of
the circuit holding that the Michigan escheat law was not intended
to apply to receiverships begun before its enactment, this Court
would hardly review such construction of the state act. P. 231.
(c) The 1941 amendment to the Michigan escheat act having
been repealed since this action was brought, to now decide this
suit for a declaratory judgment based thereon might be to render
an advisory judgment on the constitutionality of a repealed state
act, even though the repeal purported not to affect any "pending
suit or proceeding." P. 231.
170 F. 2d 966, judgment vacated and cause remanded.

ROTH v. DELANO.
226

Opinion of the Court.

A federal district court dismissed a suit brought by
the Attorney General of Michigan against the Comptroller of the Currency and the Receiver of an insolvent
national bank for a declaratory judgment that the Michigan discovery and escheat statute (Mich. Comp. Laws,
1929, Mason's 1940 Cum. Supp., c. 263, as amended by
Mich. Public Act No. 170 of 1941) applies to unclaimed
dividends on claims duly proved in liquidation. The
Court of Appeals affirmed. 170 F. 2d 966. On appeal
to this Court, judgment vacated and cause remanded,
p. 231.
Archie C. Fraser,Assistant Attorney General of Michigan, and Julius H. Amberg argued the cause for appellant.
With them on the brief were Stephen J. Roth, Attorney
General, and Edmund E. Shepherd, Solicitor General.
Stanley M. Silverberg argued the cause for the Comptroller of the Currency, appellee. With him on the brief
were Solicitor General Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Morison, Paul A. Sweeney, Morton Li! tin and J. F.
Anderson.
Robert S. Marx for Connolly, Receiver, appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The First National Bank-Detroit closed its doors in
1933 and, in its liquidation, dividends on proved claims,
small in average but large in the aggregate, have remained
for some years in the hands of the federal liquidators, unclaimed by their owners. Since this national banking
institution was located in the State of Michigan, Attorneys General of that State have made persistent efforts
at different stages of the liquidation to establish a right
in the State to escheat the unclaimed dividends. Latest
of these was this action, brought by the Attorney General

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

against the Comptroller of the Currency of the United
States1 and the Receiver of the First National BankDetroit, for a declaratory judgment that the Michigan discovery and escheat statute (Michigan Compiled Laws,
1929, Mason's 1940 Cum. Supp., c. 263), as amended by
the statute known as Act 170, Public Acts of Michigan
for 1941, applies to unclaimed dividends on claims duly
proved in the liquidation. The Court of Appeals held
the state statute ineffective as "an unlawful interference
with the liquidation of a national bank upon the same
principles and authority fully discussed in our previous
opinions." It affirmed the District Court in dismissing
the action "on the merits," adopting the "settled doctrine"
of its own prior adjudications. 170 F. 2d 966. However,
recourse to these opinions creates some doubt as to
whether the Court of Appeals has held the Michigan statute to be invalid for conflict with the Constitution and
laws of the United States or inapplicable by intendment
of the Michigan Legislature. A review of these cited
cases will expose the cause of our uncertainty.
In Starr v. O'Connor, 118 F. 2d 548 (1941), the then
Circuit Court of Appeals reviewed the statutes of Michigan then in force, which did not include Act 170, here
involved, and held them applicable to the First National
liquidation but unconstitutional under our decision in
First National Bank of San Jose v. California,262 U. S.
366.
In Rushton v. Schram, 143 F. 2d 554 (1944), the court
considered whether the amendment effected by Act 170
was applicable to the First National receivership at that
stage of the liquidation. The court said that it must
determine at the threshold whether this Act should be
1The trial court dismissed as to the Comptroller on the ground

it had no jurisdiction over him and the Court of Appeals did not
pass on the contention that he is a necessary party. 170 F. 2d 966,
967.

ROTH v. DELANO.
226

Opinion of the Court.

construed as retroactive in effect; that is, whether it applied to a liquidation commenced before its passage.
This, of course, was a state law question and it was decided by reference to state decisions. The court construed the Act, in the light of Michigan decisional law,
not to apply retroactively. It is true that the court
there reviewed federal decisions to show that it would
raise a serious question of constitutionality if the Act
were construed otherwise. But Anderson National Bank
v. Luckett, 321 U. S. 233, had intervened and in reference
to it the Court of Appeals said, "In the light of that
fresh authority, we do not say that if invoked for prospective application, and in a manner consistent with the
federal statutes, the Michigan statute would conflict with
the national banking laws and constitute an unlawful
interference with the liquidation of a national bank. Discussion of that problem is deemed inappropriate in view
of our conclusion that the Act under consideration carries
no retroactive effect in the present situation." 143 F.
2d at 559.
In Starr v. Schram, 143 F. 2d 561 (1944), the Court of
Appeals on the same day passed on the receiver's request
for a declaration that the escheat laws were at no time
validly applicable to the receivership and that he was entitled to recover back certain dormant deposit balances
and the dividends thereon which already had been paid
over to the State pursuant to the Act. The District
Court had held that the state statute was invalid as an
"unlawful interference" with the federal liquidation.
This holding the Court of Appeals affirmed but, on considerations of state immunity from suit, it refused to allow
recovery of what had been paid over.
Now comes Black v. Delano-the present case, Roth
being substituted for Black-170 F. 2d 966 (1948), which
the Court of Appeals rests on the "settled doctrine" of
these cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

Anderson National Bank v. Luckett, supra, in substance, held that the Constitution of the United States
does not prohibit a State from escheating deposits in a
national bank located and actively doing business therein,
abandoned by their owners or belonging to missing persons. The State, after a reasonable lapse of time may
lawfully administer such assets, holding them for the
benefit of the disappeared claimant or the missing owner
for a period and providing for eventual escheat. This
it may do through appointment of a personal representative, or a public administrator, or by utilizing its own
public officials. We held that mere putting of the State
itself, or its duly named officer, in the shoes of the claimant to take what the bank would otherwise be obliged
to disburse to the claimant himself does not burden, obstruct or frustrate a going bank in discharging its federal
functions. We also held no interference with a bank's
federal function to result from a mere requirement that
it make a report to the State of unclaimed property, any
more than from a requirement that it report to the State
tangible property therein for the purposes of taxation,
and nothing in our decisions suggests that such a disclosure would be an interference with the liquidation function. It would not seem too much to ask that a federal
officer, possessed of property claimed by the State to be
subject to its taxing or escheat power, make reasonable
disclosure thereof to such authority as the State designates. It is but a decent comity between governments.
Of course, these basic and general rights of the State,
including the enforcement of its claims, might be asserted
at a time, in a manner or through such means as to interfere with the federal function of orderly liquidation or
to conflict with federal law; but absent such interference
with a federal statute, the basic assumption of the State
here that nothing in the Constitution prevents it from
escheating the specific claims here involved is made

ROTH v. DELANO.
226

Opinion of the Court.

clear in our recent decisions. Anderson National Bank
v. Luckett, supra. See also Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Co. v. Moore, 333 U. S. 541.
Reiteration of these general principles does not, of
course, determine whether any peculiarity in the operation of Act 170 would go beyond the right of the State
and constitute an unreasonable burden on federal functions of the receiver. But this question is not appropriate for decision here. If the judgment below rests,
as well it may, upon earlier decisional law of the Circuit
which held that this Act was not intended to apply to
receiverships beginning before its enactment, we would
hardly review such construction of the State Act. And
there is a further reason why we should not now decide
the principal question. Michigan has repealed Act No.
170 by Act 329, Public Acts of Michigan for 1947, reserving, however, from the effect of the repeal any "pending suit or proceeding." A possible consequence is that
no new suit or proceeding could be maintained to enforce
the repealed Act. Thus, to now decide this suit for a
declaratory judgment might be to render an advisory
opinion on the constitutionality of a repealed State Act.
And, of course, a State cannot by reservation, any more
than by affirmation, confer upon us the power or impose
upon us the duty to render an advisory opinion.
In view of these considerations, we vacate and remand
to the Court of Appeals for such action as it may consider
appropriate in the light of the foregoing opinion.
Judgment vacated.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

