HIROTA

V.

MAcARTHUR.

Syllabus.

HIROTA

v. MAcARTHUR, GENERAL
ARMY, ET AL.

NO. 239, MISC.

OF THE

MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR
WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.*

Argued December 16-17, 1948.-Decided December 20, 1948.Concurring opinion announced June 27, 1949.
1. The military tribunal set up in Japan by General MacArthur
as the agent of the Allied Powers is not a tribunal of the United
States and the courts of the United States have no power or
authority to review, affirm, set aside, or annul the judgments and
sentences imposed by it on these petitioners, all of whom are
residents and citizens of Japan. P. 198.
2. For this reason, their motions for leave to file petitions for writs
of habeas corpus are denied. P. 198.

William Logan, Jr., George Yamaoka and, by special
leave of Court, George A. Furness, pro hac vice, argued
the cause for petitioners.
David F. Smith argued the cause for petitioners in
Nos. 239 and 240, Misc., and filed a brief for petitioner
in No. 239, Misc. Mr. Yamaoka was also of counsel for
petitioner in No. 239, Misc. Mr. Logan and John G.
Brannon were also of counsel for petitioners in Nos. 239
and 240, Misc.
John G. Brannon argued the cause for petitioners in
No. 248, Misc. With him on the brief were John W.
Crandall, Mr. Logan, Mr. Yamaoka and Mr. Furness.
Ben Bruce Blakeney was also of counsel.
Solicitor General Perlmanargued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief were Judge Advocate Gen*Together with No. 240, Misc., Dohihara v. MacArthur, General
of the Army, et al. and No. 248, Misc., Kido et al. v. MacArthur,
General of the Army, et al., also on motions for leave to file petitions
for writs of habeas corpus.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

eral of the Army Thomas H. Green, Arnold Raum, Robert W. Ginnane, Oscar H. Davis, Beatrice Rosenberg and
Joseph B. Keenan.
Samuel H. Jaflee filed a brief for the 'National Lawyers
Guild, as amicus curiae, opposing the petitions.
PER CURIAM.

The petitioners, all residents and citizens of Japan,
are being held in custody pursuant to the judgment of
a military tribunal in Japan. Two of the petitioners
have been sentenced to death, the others to terms of
imprisonment. They filed motions in this Court for leave
to file petitions for habeas corpus. We set all the motions
for hearing on the question of our power to grant the
relief prayed and that issue has now been fully presented
and argued.
We are satisfied that the tribunal sentencing these petitioners is not a tribunal of the United States. The United
States and other allied countries conquered and now occupy and control Japan. General Douglas MacArthur
has been selected and is acting as the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. The military tribunal
sentencing these petitioners has been set up by General
MacArthur as the agent of the Allied Powers.
Under the foregoing circumstances the courts of the
United States have no power or authority to review,
to affirm, set aside or annul the judgments and sentences
imposed on these petitioners and for this reason the
motions for leave to file petitions for writs of habeas
corpus are denied.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

dissents.

reserves decision and the announcement of his vote until a later time.*
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

*MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE died September 10, 1949, without having
announced his vote on this case.

HIROTA
197

V.

MAcARTHUR.

DOUGLAS, J.,

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

concurring.

took no part in the final decision

on these motions.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

concurring.*

These cases present new, important and difficult problems.
Petitioners are citizens of Japan. They were all high
officials of the Japanese Government or officers of the
Japanese Army during World War II. They are held
in custody pursuant to a judgment of the International
Military Tribunal for the Far East. They were found
guilty by that tribunal of various so-called war crimes
against humanity.
Petitioners at the time of argument of these cases
were confined in Tokyo, Japan, under the custody of
respondent Walker, Commanding General of the United
States Eighth Army, who held them pursuant to the
orders of respondent MacArthur, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers. Other respondents are the Chief
of Staff of the United States Army, the Secretary of the
Department of the Army, and the Secretary of Defense.
First. There is an important question of jurisdiction
that lies at the threshold of these cases. Respondents
contend that the Court is without power to issue a writ
of habeas corpus in these cases. It is argued that the
Court has no original jurisdiction as defined in Art. III,
§ 2, Cl. 2 of the Constitution,' since these are not cases
*These motions were argued December 16 and 17, 1948 and the
opinion of the Court handed down December 20, 1948. I was not
able within that short time to reduce my views to writing. Hence
I concurred in the result "for reasons to be stated in an opinion."
[REPORTER'S NOTE: This opinion was announced on June 27, 1949.]
'Article III, § 2, Cl. 2 reads as follows:
"In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and
Consuls, and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme
Court shall have original Jurisdiction. In all the other Cases before

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

338 U. S.

affecting an ambassador, public minister, or consul; nor
is a State a party. And it is urged that appellate jurisdiction is absent (1) because military commissions do
not exercise judicial power within the meaning of Art.
III, § 2 of the Constitution and hence are not agencies
whose judgments are subject to review by the Court;
and (2) no court of the United States to which the potential appellate jurisdiction of this Court extends has jurisdiction over this cause.
It is to the latter contention alone that consideration
need be given. I think it is plain that a District Court
of the United States does have jurisdiction to entertain petitions for habeas corpus to examine into the
cause of the restraint of liberty of the petitioners.
The question now presented was expressly reserved in
Ahrens v. Clark, 335 U. S. 188, 192, note 4. In that
case aliens detained at Ellis Island sought to challenge
by habeas corpus the legality of their detention in the
District Court for the District of Columbia. It was
argued that that court had jurisdiction because the Attorney General, who was responsible for their custody, was
present there. We rejected that view, holding that it
was the District Court where petitioners were confined
that had jurisdiction to issue the writ. It is now argued
that no District Court can act in these cases because
if in one case their jurisdiction under the habeas corpus
statute I is limited to inquiries into the causes of restraints
mentioned, the supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both
as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make."
2 28 U. S.C. § 2241 (a) provides:
"Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by the Supreme Court,
any justice thereof, the district courts and any circuit judge within
their respective jurisdictions. The order of a circuit judge shall
be entered in the records of the district court of the district wherein

the restraint complained of is had."

HIROTA v. MAcARTHUR.
197

DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

of liberty of those confined within the territorial jurisdictions of those courts, it is so limited in any other.
That result, however, does not follow. In Ahrens v.
Clark, supra, we were dealing with the distribution of
judicial power among the several District Courts. There
was an explicit legislative history, indicating disapproval
of a practice of moving prisoners from one district to
another in order to grant them the hearings to which
they are entitled. We held that the court at the place
of confinement was the court to which application must
be made. But it does not follow that, where that place
is not within the territorial jurisdiction of any District Court, judicial power to issue the writ is rendered
impotent.
Habeas corpus is an historic writ and one of the basic
safeguards of personal liberty. See Bowen v. Johnston,
306 U. S. 19, 26. There is no room for niggardly restrictions when questions relating to its availability are
raised. The statutes governing its use must be generously construed if the great office of the writ is not to
be impaired. In Ahrens v. Clark, supra, denial of a
remedy in one District Court was not a denial of a remedy
in all of them. There was a District Court to which
those petitioners could resort. But in these cases there
is none if the jurisdiction of the District Court is in all
respects restricted to cases of prisoners who are confined
within their geographical boundaries.
Such a holding would have grave and alarming consequences. Today Japanese war lords appeal to the Court
for application of American standards of justice. Tomorrow or next year an American citizen may stand condemned in Germany or Japan by a military court or
commission.' If no United States court can inquire into
Cases of this sort are beginning to appear. In re Bush, 336
U. S. 971, is such a case. Petitioner was a civilian employee of
the War Department from Feb. 19, 1946 to Dec. 28, 1947, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

338 U. S.

the lawfulness of his detention, the military have acquired,
contrary to our traditions (see Ex parte Quirin,317 U. S.
1; In re Yamashita, 327 U. S. 1), a new and alarming hold
on us.
I cannot agree to such a grave and startling result.
It has never been deemed essential that the prisoner in
every case be within the territorial limits of the district
where he seeks relief by way of habeas corpus. In Ex
parte Endo, 323 U. S. 283, 304-306, a prisoner had been
removed, pending an appeal, from the district where the
petition had been filed. We held that the District Court
might act if there was a respondent within reach of its
process who had custody of the prisoner. The aim of
the statute is the practical administration of justice.
The allocation of jurisdiction among the District Courts,
recognized in Ahrens v. Clark, is a problem of judicial
administration, not a method of contracting the authority
of the courts so as to delimit their power to issue the
historic writ.
The place to try the issues of this case is in the district
where there is a respondent who is responsible for the
custody of petitioners. That district is obviously the
District of Columbia. That result was reached by the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in Eisentrager v. Forrestal,84 U. S. App. D. C. 396, 174 F. 2d 961.
was stationed in Japan for most of that period. He terminated
his employment and returned to this country. Thereafter, he was
en route to Siam when his plane landed in Japan. He was arrested
and tried by a General Provost Court sitting in Japan for trading
American goods to a Japanese for certain emoluments. He was convicted and sentenced to one year imprisonment and fined 75,000 yen.
On May 9, 1949, we denied his motion for leave to file a petition for
habeas corpus "without prejudice to the right to apply to any
appropriate court that may have jurisdiction."

For a somewhat comparable case from Germany see Bird v. Johnson, 336 U. S. 950, where we denied motions for leave to file petitions for writs of habeas corpus on April 18, 1949.

HIROTA v. MAcARTHUR.
197

DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

It held, in the case of a German national confined in
Germany in the custody of the United States Army, that
the court having jurisdiction over those who have directive power over the jailer outside the United States could
issue the writ. In my view that is the correct result.
For we would have to conclude that the United States
Generals who have custody of petitioners are bigger than
our government to hold that the respondent-officials of
the War Department have no control or command over
them. That result would raise grave constitutional questions, as Eisentragerv. Forrestal, supra, suggests.
It is therefore clear to me that the District Court of
the District of Columbia is the court to hear these motions. The appropriate course would be to remit the
parties to it, reserving any further questions until the
cases come here by certiorari. But the Court is unwilling
to take that course, apparently because it deems the cases
so pressing and the issues so unsubstantial that the
motions should be summarily disposed of.
Second. The Court in denying leave to file states:
"We are satisfied that the tribunal sentencing these
petitioners is not a tribunal of the United States.
The United States and other allied countries conquered and now occupy and control Japan. General
Douglas MacArthur has been selected and is acting
as the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
The military tribunal sentencing these petitioners
has been set up by General MacArthur as the agent
of the Allied Powers.
"Under the foregoing circumstances the courts of
the United States have no power or authority to
review, to affirm, set aside or annul the judgments
and sentences imposed on these petitioners . ...
But that statement does not in my opinion adequately
analyze the problem. The formula which it evolves to
dispose of the cases is indeed potentially dangerous. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

338 U. S.

leaves practically no room for judicial scrutiny of this
new type of military tribunal which is evolving. It
leaves the power of those tribunals absolute. Prisoners
held under its mandates may have appeal to the conscience or mercy of an executive; but they apparently
have no appeal to law.
The fact that the tribunal has been set up by the Allied
Powers should not of itself preclude our inquiry. Our
inquiry is directed not to the conduct of the Allied Powers
but to the conduct of our own officials. Our writ would
run not to an official of an Allied Power but to our own
official. We would want to know not what authority
our Allies had to do what they did but what authority
our officials had.
If an American General holds a prisoner, our process
can reach him wherever he is. To that extent at least,
the Constitution follows the flag. It is no defense for
him to say that he acts for the Allied Powers. He is an
American citizen who is performing functions for our government. It is our Constitution which he supports and
defends. If there is evasion or violation of its obligations, it is no defense that he acts for another nation.
There is at present no group or confederation to which an
official of this Nation owes a higher obligation than he
owes to us.

I assume that we have no authority to review the judgment of an international tribunal. But if as a result of
unlawful action, one of our Generals holds a prisoner in his
custody, the writ of habeas corpus can effect a release
from that custody. It is the historic function of the writ
to examine into the cause of restraint of liberty. We
should not allow that inquiry to be thwarted merely because the jailer acts not only for the United States but
for other nations as well.
Let me illustrate the gravity and seriousness of the
conclusion of the Court.

HIROTA v. MAcARTHUR.
197

DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

(1) Suppose an American citizen collaborated with
petitioners in plotting a war against the United States.
The laws of the United States provide severe penalties
for such conduct. May that citizen be tried and convicted by an international tribunal and have no access
to our courts to challenge the legality of the action of our
representatives on it? May he, in the face of the safeguards which our Constitution provides even for traitors,
have no protection against American action against him?
(2) Suppose an American citizen on a visit to Japan
during the occupation commits murder, embezzlement,
or the like. May he be tried by an international tribunal
and have no recourse to our courts to challenge its jurisdiction over him?
(3) What about any other civilian so tried and convicted for such a crime committed during the occupation?
These are increasingly important questions as collaboration among nations at the international level continues.
They pose questions for which there is no precedent. But
we sacrifice principle when we stop our inquiry once we
ascertain that the tribunal is international.
I cannot believe that we would adhere to that formula
if these petitioners were American citizens. I cannot
believe we would adhere to it if this tribunal or some
other tribunal were trying American citizens for offenses
committed either before or during the occupation. In
those cases we would, I feel, look beyond the character
of the tribunal to the persons being tried and the offenses
with which they were charged. We would ascertain
whether, so far as American participation is concerned,
there was authority to try the defendants for the precise
crimes with which they are charged. That is what we
should do here.
(1) General Douglas MacArthur is the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. The Potsdam Declaration (July 26, 1945) provided for occupation of Japan
860926 0--5----20

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

338 U. S.

by the Allies. The Instrument of Surrender (September
2, 1945) accepted the terms of the Potsdam Declaration.
By the Moscow Agreement (December 27, 1945) the Supreme Commander was recognized as "the sole executive
authority for the Allied Powers in Japan." It also established a Far Eastern Commission composed of representatives of eleven nations. It was vested with broad
powers (a) to formulate policies, principles and standards by which Japan will fulfill its obligations under the
Terms of Surrender and (b) to review directives issued
to the Supreme Commander or any action taken by him
involving policy decisions within its jurisdiction. All
directives embodying policy decisions of the Commission
are to be prepared by the United States and it transmits
them to the Supreme Commander. 4 And the Commission is enjoined to respect "the chain of command from
the United States Government to the Supreme Commander and the Supreme Commander's command of
occupation forces."
The war crimes policy of the Allied Powers as respects
Japan seems to have been first suggested in the Cairo
Declaration I (December 1, 1943). The Potsdam Declaration promised that "stern justice" would be meted out
"to all war criminals."
The Far Eastern Commission on April 3, 1946, adopted
a policy decision which defined "war crimes" as including
"Planning, preparation, initiation or waging of a war of
4

The Moscow Agreement also provided:

"The United States Government may issue interim directives to
the Supreme Commander pending action by the Commission whenever urgent matters arise not covered by policies already formulated
by the Commission; provided that any directives dealing with
fundamental changes in the Japanese constitutional structure or in
the regime of control, or dealing with a change in the Japanese Government as a whole will be issued only following consultation and following the attainment of agreement in the Far Eastern Commission."
5,"The Three Great Allies are fighting this war to restrain and
punish the aggression of Japan."

HIROTA
197

V.

DOUGLAS,

MAcARTHUR.
J., concurring.

aggression or a war in violation of international treaties,
agreements and assurances, or participation in a common
plan or conspiracy for the accomplishment of any of
the foregoing." It provided that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers should have power to
appoint special international military courts to try war
criminals. Prior to this time the Supreme Commander
had constituted a court for that purpose and had appointed judges from various nations to it. On receipt of
the directive based on the Commission's war crimes policy
decision he provided a new court-the one before which
petitioners were tried. To this court the Supreme Commander appointed from names submitted by the respective nations eleven judges-one each from the United
States, China, United Kingdom, Russia, Australia, Canada, France, The Netherlands, New Zealand, India, and
the Philippines.
So I think there can be no serious doubt that, though
the arrangement is in many respects amorphous and
though the tribunal is dominated by American influence,
it is nonetheless international in character. But it should
be noted that the chain of command from the United
States to the Supreme Commander is unbroken. It is
he who has custody of petitioners. It is through that
chain of command that the writ of habeas corpus can
reach the Supreme Commander.
(2) The Constitution gives Congress the power to define
and punish "Offences against the Law of Nations . ...
Art. I, § 8, Cl. 10. It is argued that Congress here has
not made aggressive war a crime nor provided individual
punishment for waging it. It is therefore argued that
these petitioners cannot be tried by United States officials
for any such crime. We do not need to consider a case
where the definition given by Congress conflicts with what
a President does. There is no conflict here. The grant
of power to the Congress does not necessarily preclude
exercise of authority by the President. The Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

338 U. S.

makes the President the "Commander in Chief of the
Army and Navy of the United States . . . ." Art. II,
§2, Cl. 1. His power as such is vastly greater than that
of troop commander. He not only has full power to repel
and defeat the enemy; he has the power to occupy the
conquered country (New Orleans v. Steamship Co., 20

Wall. 387, 394) and to punish those enemies who violated
the law of war.

Ex parte Quirin, supra, at 28-29; In re

Yamashita, supra, at 10-11. We need not consider to
what extent, if any, the President, in providing that justice be meted out to a defeated enemy, would have to
follow (as he did in Ex parte Quirin, supra, and In re

Yamashita, supra) the procedure that Congress had prescribed for such cases. Here the President did not utilize
the conventional military tribunals provided for by the
Articles of War. He did not act alone but only in conjunction with the Allied Powers. This tribunal was an
international one arranged for through negotiation with
the Allied Powers.
The President is the sole organ of the United States
in the field of foreign relations. See United States v.
Curtiss-Wright Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 318-321. Agreements which he has made with our Allies in furtherance
of our war efforts have been legion. Whether they are
wise or unwise, necessary or improvident, are political
questions, not justiciable ones. That is particularly true
of questions relating to the commencement and conduct
of the war. Agreement with foreign nations for the
punishment of war criminals, insofar as it involves aliens
who are the officials of the enemy or members of its
armed services, is a part of the prosecution of the war.
It is a furtherance of the hostilities directed to a dilution
of enemy power and involving retribution for wrongs
done. It falls as clearly in the realm of political decisions
as all other aspects of military alliances in furtherance
of the common objective of victory. Cf. Georgia v.
Stanton, 6 Wall. 50, 71.

HIROTA v. MAcARTHUR.
197

DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

After the escape of Napoleon from Elba where he had
voluntarily retired, he was by agreement among the Powers entrusted to the custody of Great Britain. Then
followed his banishment to St. Helena. I have no doubt
that our President could have done the same as respects
these petitioners. Or he could have made arrangements
with other nations for their custody and detention. When
the President moves eto make arrangements with other
nations for their trial, he acts in a political role on a military matter. His discretion cannot be reviewed by the
judiciary.
The political nature of the decision which brought these
petitioners before the International Military Tribunal is
emphasized by the rulings which that tribunal made.
The Charter of the Tribunal was constituted by an order
of the Supreme Commander. It established the tribunal,
determined its procedure, and described its jurisdiction.
It described the "crimes" that came within the jurisdiction
of the tribunal 6 and the standard of responsibility of the
accused.!
6Article 5 provided:
"The Tribunal shall have the power to try and punish Far Eastern
war criminals who as individuals or as members of organizations
are charged with offenses which include Crimes against Peace. The
following acts, or any of them, are crimes coming within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal for which there shall be individual responsibility:
"a. Crimes against Peace: Namely, the planning, preparation, initiation or waging of a declared or undeclared war of aggression,
or a war in violation of international law, treaties, agreements or
assurances, or participation in a common plan or conspiracy for
the accomplishment of any of the foregoing;
"b. Conventional War Crimes: Namely, violations of the laws or
customs of war;
"c. Crimes against Humanity: Namely, murder, extermination,
enslavement, deportation, and other inhumane acts committed before
or during the war, or persecutions on political or racial grounds in
execution of or in connection with any crime within the jurisdiction
of the Tribunal, whether or not in violation of the domestic law
of the country where perpetrated. Leaders, organizers, instigators

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

338 U. S.

Justice Pal of India, who dissented from the judgments
of conviction, claimed that the Allied Powers as victors
did not have the legal right under international law to
treat petitioners as war criminals. He wrote at length,
contending that the Pact of Paris,8 46 Stat. 2343, to
which Japan was a signatory, did not affect the preand accomplices participating in the formulation or execution of a
common plan or conspiracy to commit any of the foregoing crimes
are responsible for all acts performed by any person in execution of
such plan."
Petitioners Dohihara, Hirota, Kido, Oka, Sato, Shimada and Togo
were found guilty of waging a war of aggression and of conspiring
to do so. Petitioners Dohihara and Hirota were found guilty of
conventional war crimes and crimes against humanity.
7 Article 6 provided:
"Neither the official position, at any time, of an accused, nor the
fact that an accused acted pursuant to order of his government or of
a superior shall, of itself, be sufficient to free such accused from
responsibility for any crime with which he is charged, but such
circumstances may be considered in mitigation of punishment if
the Tribunal determines that justice so requires."
8 This treaty provided in part:
"Persuaded that the time has come when a frank renunciation
of war as an instrument of national policy should be made to the
end that the peaceful and friendly relations now existing between
their peoples may be perpetuated;

"ARTICLE I

"The High Contracting Parties solemnly declare in the names
of their respective peoples that they condemn recourse to war for
the solution of international controversies, and renounce it as an
instrument of national policy in their relations with one another.
"ARTICLE

II

"The High Contracting Parties agree that the settlement or solution of all disputes or conflicts of whatever nature or of whatever
origin they may be, which may arise among them, shall never be
sought except by pacific means."
See Miller, The Peace Pact of Paris (1928).

HIROTA
197

V.

DOUGLAS,

MAcARTHUR.
J., concurring.

existing legal position of war in international life.' He
rejected the argument that international customary law
had developed under the Pact, 10 or that there was individual responsibility for the waging of aggressive war,
even assuming it to be a crime under international law. 1
He called on the Tribunal to rule on these questions.
He stated:
"We have been set up as an International Military
Tribunal. The clear intention is that we are to be 'a
judicial tribunal' and not 'a manifestation of power'.
The intention is that we are to act as a court of law
and act under international law. We are to find out,
by the application of the appropriate rules of inter9 For discussions pro and con on this issue see Glueck, War Criminals (1944); Glueck, The Nuremberg Trial and Aggressive War
(1946).
10 In this connection he said:
"I may mention here in passing that within four years of the conclusion of the Pact there occurred three instances of recourse to force
on a large scale on the part of the signatories of the Pact. In 1929
Soviet Russia conducted hostilities against China in connection with
the dispute concerning the Chinese Eastern Railway. The occupation of Manchuria by Japan in 1931 and 1932 followed. Then there
was the invasion of the Colombian Province of Leticia by Peru in
1932. Thereafter, we had the invasion of Abyssinia by Italy in
1935 and of Finland by Russia in 1939. Of course there was also
the invasion of China by Japan in 1937."
Some of the petitioners, notably Dohihara, Hirota, Kido and Togo,
were found guilty on charges which involved waging of aggressive
war prior to Pearl Harbor, e. g., in connection with the Manchurian
episode.
11He went so far as to say:
"In my view if the alleged acts do not constitute any crime under
the existing international law, the trial and punishment of the authors thereof with a new definition of crime given by the victor
would make it a 'war crime' on his part. The prisoners are to be
dealt with according to the rules and regulations of international law
and not according to what the victor chooses to name as international
law."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

338 U. S.

national law, whether the acts constitute any crime
under the already existing law, dehors the Declaration, the Agreement or, the Charter. Even if the
Charter, the Agreement or the Declaration schedules
them as crimes, it would only be the decision of the
relevant authorities that they are crimes under the
already existing law. But the Tribunal must come
to its own decision. It was never intended to bind
the Tribunal by the decision of these bodies, for
otherwise the Tribunal will not be a 'judicial tribunal'
but a mere tool for the manifestation of power.
"The so-called trial held according to the definition
of crime now given by the victors obliterates the centuries of civilization which stretch between us and
the summary slaying of the defeated in a war. A
trial with law thus prescribed will only be a sham
employment of legal process for the satisfaction of
a thirst for revenge. It does not correspond to any
idea of justice. Such a trial may justly create the
feeling that the setting up of a tribunal like the
present is much more a political than a legal affair,
an essentially political objective having thus been
cloaked by a juridical appearance. Formalized
vengence [sic] can bring only an ephemeral satisfaction, with every probability of ultimate regret; but
vindication of law through genuine legal process
alone may contribute substantially to the re-establishment of order and decency in international
relations."
But the Tribunal, though expressing disagreement with
Justice Pal on the point, 2 did not rule on the question.
It stated in this connection that it was in complete accord with
the following passages from the opinion of the Nuremberg Tribunal,
Nazi Conspiracy and Aggression, Opinion and Judgment (1947), pp.
48,50,53,49, 53-54:
"The Charter is not an arbitrary exercise of power on the part of
the victorious nations, but in the view of the Tribunal, as will be
12

HIROTA v. MAcARTHUR.
197

DOUGLAS,

213

J., concurring.

It ruled that "the law of the Charter is decisive and binding" upon it. It said:
"This is a special tribunal set up by the Supreme
Commander under authority conferred on him by the
shown, it is the expression of international law existing at the time of
its creation;
"The question is, what was the legal effect of this pact? [Pact of
Paris.] The nations who signed the pact or adhered to it unconditionally condemned recourse to war for the future as an instrument of
policy, and expressly renounced it. After the signing of the pact, any
nation resorting to war as an instrument of national policy breaks
the pact. In the opinion of the Tribunal, the solemn renunciation
of war as an instrument of national policy necessarily involves the
proposition that such a war is illegal in international law; and that
those who plan and wage such a war, with its inevitable and terrible
consequences, are committing a crime in so doing.
"The principle of international law, which under certain circumstances, protects the representatives of a State, cannot be applied
to acts which are condemned as criminal by international law. The
authors of these acts cannot shelter themselves behind their official
position in order to be freed from punishment in appropriate proceedings.
the maxim nullum crimen sine lege is not a limitation of sovereignty, but is in general a principle of justice. To assert that it
is unjust to punish those who in defiance of treaties and assurances
have attacked neighboring states without warning is obviously untrue, for in such circumstances the attacker must know that he is
doing wrong, and so far from it being unjust to punish him, it would
be unjust if his wrong were allowed to go unpunished.
"The Charter specifically provides in Article 8:
" 'The fact that the defendant acted pursuant to order of his
Government or of a superior shall not free him from responsibility, but may be considered in mitigation of punishment.'
"The provisions of this Article are in conformity with the law of all

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

338 U. S.

Allied Powers. It derives its jurisdiction from the
Charter. In this trial its members have no jurisdiction except such as is to be found in the Charter.
The Order of the Supreme Commander, which appointed the members of the Tribunal, states: 'The
responsibilities, powers, and duties of the members
of the Tribunal are set forth in the Charter
thereof

. .

.'

In

the result, the members of the

Tribunal, being otherwise wholly without power in
respect to the trial of the accused, have been empowered by the documents, which constituted the
Tribunal and appointed them as members, to try
the accused but subject always to the duty and responsibility of applying to the trial the law set forth
in the Charter."
The President of the Tribunal, Sir William Flood Webb
of Australia, in a separate opinion stated:
"The Charter is binding as it is International Law,
the Potsdam Declaration and the Instrument of Surrender put into operation by the martial law of the
Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers in occupation of Japan.
"The Supreme Commander stated in his proclamation of the Tribunal and Charter--the martial law
referred to-that he acted in order to implement the
term of surrender that stern justice should be meted
out to war criminals.
"Under International Law belligerents have the
right to punish during the war such war criminals as
fall into their hands. The right accrues after occunations ....

The true test, which is found in varying degrees in

the criminal law of most nations, is not the existence of the order, but
whether moral choice was in fact possible."

HIROTA
197

V.

DOUGLAS,

MAcARTHUR.
J., concurring.

pation of the enemy territory. As a condition of the
armistice a victorious belligerent may require the
defeated state to hand over persons accused of war
crimes. The Potsdam Declaration and the Instrument of Surrender contemplate the exercise of this
right. But guilt must be ascertained before punishment is imposed; hence the provision for trials.
"The occupying belligerent may set up military
courts to try persons accused of war crimes; and to
assure a fair trial may provide among other things
for civilian judges, the right of appeal, and publicity.
(Oppenheim on InternationalLaw, 6th Edn. Vol. II,
p. 456.)" 13
The conclusion is therefore plain that the Tokyo Tribunal acted as an instrument of military power of the
Executive Branch of government. It responded to the
will of the Supreme Commander as expressed in the
military order by which he constituted it. It took its
law from its creator and did not act as a free and independent tribunal to adjudge the rights of petitioners
under international law. As Justice Pal said, it did not
therefore sit as a judicial tribunal. It was solely an
instrument of political power. Insofar as American participation is concerned, there is no constitutional objection to that action. For the capture and control of those
who were responsible for the Pearl Harbor incident was
a political question on which the President as Commander-in-Chief, and as spokesman for the nation in
foreign affairs, had the final say.
13 He went on to state his view that the waging of aggressive war
was a crime under international law and that individual responsibility

attached thereto. Justice Jaranilla of the Philippines filed a separate
concurring opinion to the same effect. Justice Bernard of France,
though dissenting from the majority because of certain rulings on
vicarious criminal responsibility and because he thought the trial
was not fair, agreed that the waging of aggressive war was a crime.

