REILLY v. PINKUS.
Syllabus.

REILLY, POSTMASTER, v. PINKUS, TRADING
AMERICAN HEALTH AIDS CO., ALSO KNOWN

AS
AS

ENERGY FOOD CENTER.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 31.

Argued October 13, 1949.-Decided November 14, 1949.

1. In a fraud-order proceeding under 39 U. S. C. §§ 259, 732, it was
shown that respondent had made expansive claims in advertisements regarding the efficacy and safety of his fat-reducing plan,
which consisted of a diet and the taking of small quantities of
granulated kelp containing iodine. Testimony of expert witnesses,
based upon their general medical knowledge, was slightly conflicting as to the value of iodine for this purpose; but they agreed
that the recommended diet might prove harmful to some persons.
Held: The evidence was sufficient to support a finding by the
Postmaster General that the efficacy of respondent's reducing plan
was misrepresented in his advertising. Pp. 270-275.
(a) American School of Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94,
does not bar a finding of fraud whenever there is the least conflict
of opinion as to curative effects of a remedy. Pp. 273-274.
(b) If made with intent to deceive, misrepresentations such as
were made here fall squarely within the type which in Leach v.
Carlile, 258 U. S. 138, were held to justify findings of fraud. Pp.
274-275.
2. Government witnesses based their expert testimony in part on
certain medical books, and respondent was not permitted to crossexamine them about statements contained in other medical books.
The presiding officer adopted the prosecutor's view that good faith
was not a defense. The Postmaster General found that the efficacy of respondent's reducing plan was misrepresented in his advertising and issued a fraud order. Held: The present fraud order
should not be enforced; but the proceedings may be reopened to
permit additional hearings should the Postmaster General choose
to do so. Pp. 275-277.
(a) It was prejudicial error not to permit respondent to crossexamine the Government's witnesses as to statements contained
in other medical books, even though some of them were merely
medical dictionaries. P. 275.
860926 O-5.--24

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

(b) This error was not cured by having the fact-finder examine
the excluded material subsequently. Pp. 275--276.
(c) In postoffice fraud cases, proof of fraudulent purpose is
essential: It is not sufficient to prove merely that an incorrect
statement was made. P. 276.
(d) One against whom serious charges of fraud are made must
be given a reasonable opportunity to cross-examine witnesses on
the vital issue of his purpose to deceive. P. 276.
(e) The strikingly different consequences of cease-and-desist orders issued by the Federal Trade Commission and fraud orders
issued by the Postmaster General emphasize the importance of
limiting the latter to instances where actual fraud is clearly proved.
P. 277.
170 F. 2d 786, affirmed.

A District Court enjoined enforcement of a fraud order
issued by the Postmaster General. 61 F. Supp. 610; 71
F. Supp. 993. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 170 F.
2d 786. This Court granted certiorari. 337 U. S. 906.
Affirmed, p. 277.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Morison, Paul A. Sweeney and
Cecelia Goetz.
Bernard G. Segal argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Irving R. Segal.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

Federal statutes have long authorized the Postmaster
General to forbid delivery of mail and payment of money
orders to "any person or company" found, "upon evidence
satisfactory" to him, to be "conducting any . . .scheme
or device for obtaining money . . . through the mails by

means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or
promises .

. .

." 1

Following a hearing the Postmaster

1R.S. 3929, as amended, 39
39 U. S. C. § 732.

U. S. C. § 259; R. S. 4041, as amended,

REILLY v. PINKUS.
269

Opinion of the Court.

General issued such an order restricting respondent's use
of the mails.2
The representations on which the order is based relate
to respondent's anti-fat treatment, nationally advertised
under the name of "Dr. Phillips' Kelp-I-Dine Reducing
Plan." "Kelp-I-Dine" is a name used by respondent for
granulated kelp, a natural seaweed product containing
iodine. The Reducing Plan is twofold: It requires users
to take one-half teaspoonful of "Kelp-I-Dine" per day,
and suggests following a recommended daily diet which
accompanies the vials of kelp.
Respondent's advertisements made expansive claims for
its plan. They represented that persons suffering from
obesity could "eat plenty" and yet reduce 3 to 5 pounds in
a week surely and easily, without "tortuous diet" and
without feeling hungry. Unhappy people eager to reduce
but also eager to eat plenty were repeatedly reassured with
alluring but subtly qualified representations such as these:
"Remember with the Kelpidine Plan, you don't cut out
ice cream, cake, candy, or any other things you like to
eat. You just cut down on them." The alleged safety
of the remedy and extraordinary efficacy of kelp were emphasized in advertisements stating that it "makes no difference if you are 16 or 60, or if you have diabetes, rheumatism or any other ailment. Kelpidine is always safe
and doctors approve the Kelpidine plan. You simply
take a half teaspoon of Kelpidine once each day and
eat three regular sensible meals. Kelpidine decreases
your appetite."
Two doctors with wide general knowledge in the field
of dietetics and treatment for obesity were called by
the Government in the fraud hearing. They testified
2 The order did not forbid delivery of mail to respondent Pinkus
individually. It did forbid delivery to trade names used by respondent Pinkus, "American Health Aids Company and Energy Food
Center, and their officers and agents as such . .. ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

that iodine, to which respondent chiefly attributed the
fat-reducing powers of kelp, is valueless as an anti-fat;
that kelp would not reduce hunger; that the suggested
diet was too drastic to be safe for use without medical
supervision, particularly where users suffered from chronic
diseases such as diabetes and heart trouble. The one
physician called by respondent testified that iodine was
used by physicians as a weight reducer, and expressed his
judgment that it did have value for such use. Even he,
however, conceded that the daily dosage of iodine to reduce weight would be fifty to sixty times more than the
iodine in respondent's daily dosage of kelp. The respondent's witness also admitted that the recommended
diet was "rigid," and might prove harmful to persons
suffering from tuberculosis, anemia, or heart disease.
The findings of the Postmaster General were that kelp
is valueless as a weight reducer and that whatever efficacy there was in the remedy lay in the diet recommendations. He also found that the diet was neither uniformly
safe nor harmless and might be particularly dangerous for
persons afflicted with heart and kidney troubles; that the
diet could not, as represented, be pursued in ease and
comfort, without hunger, while eating the things respondent had led people to believe they could. On these findings the fraud order was entered.
The District Court granted an injunction against enforcement of the fraud order on the ground that the order
was unsupported by factual evidence. Asserting that
there was "no exact standard of absolute truth" against
which respondent's advertisements could be measured, the
court held that the testimony of the two doctors on which
the Government's case rested was reduced by the conflicting testimony of respondent's witness to the status of
mere opinion. As such, the evidence was held insufficient
3 71 F. Supp. 993.

See also 61 F. Supp. 610.

REILLY v. PINKUS.
269

Opinion of the Court.

under the rule laid down by this Court in American
School of Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94. The
Court of Appeals affirmed on substantially the same
ground.4 Both courts distinguished Leach v. Carlile, 258
U. S. 138, where we held that a difference of opinion as
to whether a product had any value at all did not bar a
fraud order based on claims of far greater curative powers
than the product could actually have. Important questions concerning the scope of the McAnnulty case and the
sufficiency of evidence to support postoffice fraud orders
prompted us to grant certiorari.
First. It is contended here, as both courts below held,
that the findings of the Postmaster General must be set
aside under the rule of the McAnnulty case. There the
Postmaster General had forbidden use of the mails upon
finding as a fact that petitioner was guilty of falsehood
and fraud in obtaining money by representations based
on claims that the "mind of the human race is largely
responsible for its ills, . . . and that the human race does
possess the innate power, through proper exercise of the
faculty of the brain and mind, to largely control and remedy the ills that humanity is heir to . . . ." This Court
set aside the fraud order, pointing out that there were two
widely held schools of opinion as to whether the mind
could affect bodily diseases, and that scientific knowledge
had not advanced to the point where an actual intent to
deceive could be attributed to one who asserted either
opinion. Thus there was "no exact standard of absolute
truth by which to prove the assertion false and a fraud."
At best, testimony either way was held to be no more than
"opinion" in a field where imperfect knowledge made
proof "as of an ordinary fact" impossible.
Respondent appears to argue that the McAnnulty case
bars a finding of fraud whenever there is the least conflict
4

170 F. 2d 786.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

of opinion as to curative effects of a remedy. The contention seems to be that even the testimony of the most
experienced medical experts can never rise above a mere
"opinion" unless the expert has made actual tests of the
drug to determine its effects in relation to the particular
representations alleged to be false. The McAnnulty holding did not go so far. We do not understand or accept
it as prescribing an inexorable rule that automatically
bars reliance of the fact-finding tribunal upon informed
medical judgment every time medical witnesses can be
produced who blindly adhere to a curative technique
thoroughly discredited by reliable scientific experiences.
But we do accept the McAnnulty decision as a wholesome
limitation upon findings of fraud under the mail statutes
when the charges concern medical practices in fields where
knowledge has not yet been crystallized in the crucible of
experience. For in the science of medicine, as in other
sciences, experimentation is the spur of progress. It
would amount to condemnation of new ideas without a
trial to give the Postmaster General power to condemn
new ideas as fraudulent solely because some cling to
traditional opinions with unquestioning tenacity.
In this case there is conflict, though slight, as to
whether kelp or iodine is valueless as a weight reducer.
But even if we assume that medical opinion is yet in a
state of flux on this question, we think that there was
sufficient evidence to support the findings that the efficacy of the "Reducing Plan" as a whole was misrepresented in respondent's advertising. And we think those
misrepresentations went beyond permissible "puffing" of
a seller's wares; they were material representations on
which credulous persons, eager to reduce, were entitled
to rely. Despite subtle qualifying phrases it is difficult
to read these advertisements as a whole without receiving
the impression that, contrary to facts justifiably found by
the Postmaster General, kelp is a sure and drastic weight

REILLY v. PINKUS.
269

Opinion of the Court.

reducer; that a user can reduce without uncomfortably
restricting his usual ample diet of fattening foods; that
the treatment is absolutely safe and harmless to people of
all ages, to the ill and the well. See Donaldson v. Read
Magazine, 333 U. S. 178, 188-189. These representations, if made with intent to deceive, fall squarely within
the type which in Leach v. Carlile,258 U. S. 138, were held
to justify findings of fraud.
Second. Nevertheless we are constrained to hold that
the present fraud order should not be enforced. It has
been pointed out that the doctors' expert evidence rested
on their general professional knowledge. To some extent
this knowledge was acquired from medical text books and
publications, on which these experts placed reliance. In
cross-examination respondent sought to question these
witnesses concerning statements in other medical books,
some of which at least were shown to be respectable authorities. The questions were not permitted. We think
this was an undue restriction on the right to cross-examine. It certainly is illogical, if not actually unfair, to
permit witnesses to give expert opinions based on book
knowledge, and then deprive the party challenging such
evidence of all opportunity to interrogate them about
divergent opinions expressed in other reputable books.
Petitioner seeks to justify exclusion of cross-examination based on some of these books by pointing out that
they were merely medical dictionaries. Government experts testified they would not consult the dictionaries to
ascertain the efficacy of a remedy, although they kept
and used them for Other purposes. But the books did assert the use of kelp as a fat reducer, and to some extent
this tended to refute testimony by government experts
that no reputable physicians would accept kelp or iodine
as a weight reducer.
It is also contended that the error in restricting crossexamination was harmless here because the memorandum

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

of the fact-finding official indicated that he had read the
excluded materials and would have made the same adverse findings had the materials been held admissible.
But the object of using the books on cross-examination
was to test the expert's testimony by having him refer
to and comment upon their contents. Respondent was
deprived of this opportunity. The error of this deprivation could not be cured by having the fact-finder subsequently examine the material.
Moreover, the issues in postoffice fraud cases make
such cross-examination peculiarly appropriate. Proof of
fraudulent purposes is essential-an "actual intent to deceive." See Seven Cases v. United States, 239 U. S. 510,
517. Consequently fraud under the mail statutes is not
established merely by proving that an incorrect statement
was made. An intent to deceive might be inferred from
the universality of scientific belief that advertising representations are wholly unsupportable; conversely, the
likelihood of such an inference might be lessened should
cross-examination cause a witness to admit that the scientific belief was less universal than he had first testified.
The power to refuse enforcement of orders for error
in regard to evidence should be sparingly exercised. A
large amount of discretion in the conduct of a hearing is
necessarily reposed in an administrative agency. And
what we have said is not to be taken as removing this
discretion or as a compulsory opening of the gates for
floods of medical volumes, even where shown to be authoritative. But in this kind of case as in others, one
against whom serious charges of fraud are made must be
given a reasonable opportunity to cross-examine witnesses on the vital issue of his purpose to deceive. And
in this case any holding of harmless error is precluded by
the fact that the assistant solicitor presiding at the hearings adopted the prosecutor's view that respondent was
to be barred from using the mails "regardless of the ques-

REILLY v. PINKUS.
269

Opinion of the Court.

tion of good faith, even if the respondent believed in all
of his representations . . .if they were false as a matter
of fact."
It is not amiss to point out that the Federal Trade
Commission does have authority to issue cease-and-desist
orders in cases like this without findings of fraud. 15
U. S. C. § 45 (a), (b); Federal Trade Comm'n v. Algoma
Co., 291 U. S. 67, 81. But that remedy does not approach
the severity of a mail fraud order. In Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 316 U. S. 149, for instance, a
business advertising its anti-fat product with extravagant statements similar in many respects to those of respondent here was ordered to cease and desist from making such statements. Except for this, the business was
left free to sell its product as before. Unlike the Postmaster General, the Federal Trade Commission cannot
bar an offender from using the mails, an order which
could wholly destroy a business. See Brandeis, J., dissenting in Milwaukee Pub. Co. v. Burleson, 255 U. S.
407, 417 et seq. The strikingly different consequences
of the orders issued by the two agencies on the basis of
analogous misrepresentations emphasize the importance
of limiting Postoffice Department orders to instances
where actual fraud is clearly proved.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed,
without prejudice to a reopening of the proceedings
against respondent to permit additional hearings should
the Postmaster General choose to do so.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

