OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Statement of the case.

23 U.S.

dence that Congress has approved the executive construction embodied in the regulations.12
Respondent insists that the increasing liberality in the
statutory provisions for depletion allowances in the successive Revenue Acts, indicates that Congress never intended that the 1918 act should be so construed or administered as to deprive the taxpayer of the return of his
entire capital tax-free. But the increasing liberality was
to be applicable in calculating net income for the successive years and we can find no evidence either in the acts or
in the regulations, of any intent to increase future depletion allowances to redress the inadequacy of those previously permitted.
It follows that the judgment must be
Reversed.
ALDRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 683.

Argued March 16, 1931.-Decided April 20, 1931.

1. A negro, about to be tried for the murder of a white man, is entitled
to have the jurors asked on their voir dire whether they have any
racial prejudice that would prevent a fair and impartial verdict.
P. 311 et seq.
2. A request for such an inquiry, at a trial in the District of Columbia
(where prospective jurors are examined by the Court), held
sufficient, although informal. P. 310.
47 F. (2d) 407, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 836, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a sentence for murder.
12 United States v. Cerecedo Hermanos, 209 U. S. 337; National
Lead Co. v. United States, 252 U. S. 140.

ALDRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
308

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Jame8 F. Reilly for petitioner.
Mr. Leo A. Rover, United States Attorney for the District of Columbia, with whom Mr. Neil Burkinshaw,
Assistant United States Attorney, was on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The petitioner was convicted, in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, of murder in the first degree and
was sentenced to death. The conviction was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals. This Court granted a writ of certiorari, limited to the question raised by the exception to
the ruling of the trial court on the examination on voir
dire of prospective jurors.
The petitioner is a negro, and the deceased was a white
man, a member of the police force of the District. The
record shows the following proceedings on the examination of jurors on the voir dire:
The court" inquired if any of them knew the defendant,
Alfred Scott Aldridge, or his counsel, or any of the witnesses whose names have been called. The court further
inquired if any of the prospective jurors knew any of the
facts in the case or if any of them ever remembered having read of it in the newspaper, or if they had any prejudice or bias against circumstantial evidence, or if any of
the prospective jurors had any conscientious scruples
against capital punishment. The court further inquired if
any prospective juror had formed or exercised an opinion
as to the guilt or innocence of the defendant, and further
inquired whether any prospective juror was acquainted
with any member of the Metropolitan Police Force of the
District of Columbia, or more particularly those attached
to the third precinct.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

"Whereupon, with the consent of the court, counsel
for the parties hereto approached the bench and in a whispered tone, out of the hearing of the prospective jurors.
the following took place:
"Mr. Reilly. At the last trial of this case I understand
there was one woman on the jury who was a southerner,
and who said that the fact that the defendant was a negro
and the deceased a white man perhaps somewhat influenced her. I don't like to ask that question in public,
but"The Court. I don't think that would be a proper question, any more than to ask whether they like an Irishman
or a Scotchman.
"Mr. Reilly. But it was brought to our attention so
prominently. It is a racial question"The Court. It was not this jury.
"Mr. Reilly. No. But it was a racial question, and the
question came up"The Court. I don't think that is proper.
"Mr. Reilly. Might I, out of an abundance of caution,
note an exception.
"The Court. Note an exception.
"Counsel for the defendant requested the court to allow
the record to show that the question relative to racial
prejudice be propounded to each and every prospective
juror, with the exception heretofore noted on behalf of
the defendant."
In accordance with the existing practice, the questions
to the prospective jurors were put by the court, and the
court had a broad discretion as to the questions to be
asked. The exercise of this discretion, and the restriction
upon inquiries at the request of counsel, were subject to
the essential demands of fairness. We find no reason
to doubt the nature of the inquiry which the counsel for
the accused desired. It was admitted at the bar of this
Court that the members of the jury were white. In ask-

ALDRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
308

Opinion of the Court.

ing that the question relative to "racial prejudice" be
put to the jurors, it is only reasonable to assume that
counsel referred, not to immaterial matters, but to such a
prejudice as would disqualify a juror because precluding
an impartial verdict. The reference to what counsel had
heard as to the attitude of a juror on the previous trial,
where the jury had disagreed, indicated the purpose of the
question, which was clear enough to invite appropriate
action by the court. If the court had permitted the question, it doubtless would have been properly qualified. But
the court, interrupting counsel, disposed of the inquiry
summarily. The court failed to ask any question which
could be deemed to cover the subject. If the defendant
was entitled to have the jurors asked whether they had
any racial prejudice, by reason of the fact that the defendant was a negro and the deceased a white man, which
would prevent their giving a fair and impartial verdict, we
cannot properly disregard the court's refusal merely because of the form in which the inquiry was presented.
The propriety of such an inquiry has been generally
recognized. In Pinderv. State, 27 Fla. 370; 8 So. .837, the
counsel for the accused sought to have the jurors asked on
their voir dire: "Could you give the defendant, who is a
negro, as fair and as impartial a trial as you could a white
man, and give him the same advantage and protection as
you would a white man upon the same evidence?" The
Supreme Court of Florida held that the refusal of the
court to allow the question was error and reversed the conviction.1 In Hill v. State, 112 Miss. 260; 72 So. 1003, the
1 In

the Pinder ease, supra, the coirt said: "Though the question

is not in express terms provided for in the statute above cited"
(McClellan's Digest, ยง 10, p. 446) "yet it was a pertinent, and, as
we think, proper question, to test fully the existence of bias or prejudice in the minds of the jurors. It sought to elicit a fact that was
of the most vital import to the defendant; and a fact, too, that if
existent, was locked up entirely within the breasts of the jurors to

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2S3 I.S.

Supreme Court of Mississippi held that it was fatal erTor
to refuse to permit a negro on trial for murder to put. to
prospective jurors on their voir dire the following question:
"Have you got any prejudice against the negro, as a negro,
that would induce you to return a verdict on less or slighter
evidence than you would return a verdict of guilty against
a white man under the same circumstances?" The Supreme Court of North Carolina reversed the conviction of
a negro because of the refusal of the trial judge to permit
a juror to be asked if "he believed he could, as a juror,
do equal and impartial justice between the State and a
colored man." State v. McAfee, 64 N. C. 339.2 See, also,
whom the question was propounded; a knowledge of the existence of
which could only be acquired by interrogating the juror himself.
The answer to it if in the affirmative could have worked no harm to
the juror or to anyone else, but would have done credit to the
humanity and intelligence of the juror, and would have satisfactorily
exhibited to the court and to the defendant his entire competency,
so far as the element of bias or prejudice was involved. But, if the
answer to it from the jurors had been in the negative, then, we have
no hesitancy in saying that it would have shown them to be wholly
unfit and incompetent to sit upon the trial of a man of the negro
race, whose right to a trial by a fair and impartial jury is as fully
guaranteed to him under our constitution and laws, as to the whitest
man in Christendom. And such incompetency asserts itself with
superadded force in such a case as this where the life or death of the
defendant was the issue to tip the scale in the jury's hands for
adjustment."
2 In that case, the court said (at p. 340): "It is essential to the
purity of trial by jury, that every juror shall be free from bias. If
his mind has been poisoned by prejudice of any kind, whether resulting from reason or passion, he is unfit to sit on a jury. Here, his
Honor refused to allow a proper question to be put to the juror, in
order to test his qualifications. Suppose the question had been
allowed, and the juror had answered, that the state of his feelings
toward the colored race was such that he could not show equal and
impartial justice between the State and the prisoner, especially in
charges of this character, it is at once seen that he would have been
grossly unfit to sit in the jury box."

ALDRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
308

Opinion of the Court.

Fendrick v. State, 39 Tex. Cr. 147; 45 S. W. 589; State v.
Sanders, 103 S. C. 216; 88 S. E. 10.
The practice of permitting questions as to racial prejudice is not confined to any section of the country, and this
fact attests the widespread sentiment that fairness demands that such inquiries be allowed. Thus, in New
York, on the trial of a negro for the murder of his wife,
who was white, a talesman, who had testified to a disqualifying prejudice, was excluded by the court on its own
motion, and the Court of Appeals held that the exclusion
was not error, although in the absence of a challenge to
the talesman by either party. People v. Decker, 157 N. Y.
186, 190; 51 N. E. 1018. See, also, State v. Brown, 188
Mo. 451, 459, 460; 87 S. W. 519.
The right to examine jurors on the voir dire as to the
existence of a disqualifying state of mind, has been upheld
with respect to other races than the black race, and in
relation to religious and other prejudices of a serious character. Potter v. State, 86 Tex. Cr. 380, 384; 216 S. W. 886;
People v. Reyes, 5 Cal. 347, 349; Watson v. Whitney, 23
Cal. 375, 379; People v. Car Soy, 57 Cal. 102; Horst v.
Silverman, 20 Wash. 233, 234; 55 Pac. 52. In People v.
Reyes, supra, Mexicans were charged with assault with
intent to commit murder, and conviction was reversed because of the refusal to allow questions to determine
whether a prospective juror was a member of the Know
Nothing party, and whether he had taken any oath or
obligation which resulted in prejudice, or whether independent of such an oath he entertained a prejudice, which
would prevent him from giving the accused a fair trial.'
8The court in that case said (at p. 349): "As the juror best knows
the condition of his own mind, no satisfactory conclusion can be
arrived at, without resort to himself. Applying this test then, how
is it possible to ascertain whether he is prejudiced or not, unless
questions similar to the foregoing are propounded to him? ...
"Prejudice being a state of mind more frequently founded in
passion than in reason, may exist with or without cause; and to ask

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

We do not overlook the reference of the Court of Appeals, in support of the ruling of the trial court, to conditions in the District of Columbia "where the colored race
is accorded all the privileges and rights under the law, that
are afforded the white race, and especially the right to
practice in the courts, serve on the jury, etc." But the
question is not as to the civil privileges of the negro, or
as to the dominant sentiment of the community and the
general absence of any disqualifying prejudice, but as to
the bias of the particular jurors who are to try the accused.
If in fact, sharing the general sentiment, they were found
to be impartial, no harm would be done in permitting
the question; but if any one of them was shown to entertain a prejudice which would preclude his rendering a fair
verdict, a gross injustice would be perpetrated in allowing him to sit. Despite the privileges accorded to the
negro, we do not think that it can be said that the possibility of such prejudice is so remoteI as to justify the
risk in forbidding the inquiry. And this risk becomes
most grave when the issue is of life or death.
The argument is advanced on behalf of the Government
that it would be detrimental to the administration of the
a person whether he is prejudiced or not again'st a party, and (if

the answer is affirmative), whether that prejudice is of such a
character as would lead him to deny the party a fair trial, is not
only the simplest method of ascertaining the state of his mind, but is,
probably, the only sure method of fathoming his thoughts and feelings.

If the person called had not taken an obligation which would prejudice
him against foreigners in such a manner as to imperil their rights in a
court of law, he could say so, and the question and answer would be
harmless. If, upon the other hand, he had taken oaths, and was
under obligations which influenced his mind and feelings in such a
manner as to deny to a foreigner an impartial trial, he is grossly
unfit to sit as a juror, and such facts should be known."
'For an illustration of a case-where the suggestion of bias was held
to be too remote, e. g., as to political affiliations, see Connors v. United
States, 158 U. S. 408.

ALDRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
308

McRYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

law in the courts of the United States to allow questions to
jurors as to racial or religious prejudices. We think that
it would be far inore injurious to permit it to be thought
that persons entertaining a disqualifying prejudice were
allowed to serve as jurors and that inquiries designed to
elicit the fact of disqualification were barred. No surer
way could be devised to bring the processes of justice into
disrepute.
We are of the opinion that the ruling of the trial court
on the voir dire was erroneous and the judgment of conviction must for this reason be reversed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusncE McREYNoLDs, dissenting.
Our jurisdiction over this case is limited by ยง 391, Title
28, U. S. Code, which provides-"All United States courts shall have power to grant new
trials, in cases where there has been a trial by jury, for
reasons for which new trials have usually been granted in
the courts of law. On the hearing of any appeal, certiorari,
writ of error, or motion for a new trial, in any case, civil or
criminal, the court shall give judgment after an examination of the entire record before the court, without regard
to technical errors, defects, or exceptions which do not
affect the substantial rights of the parties."
The petitioner, a negro, killed a white policeman in the
District of Columbia. He was indicted, tried and found
guilty by a jury. He moved for a new trial upon the
ground, among others, "That this court committed error.
in refusing to examine the jury on their voir dire as to
whether any juror may entertain racial prejudice in a
matter of homicide where the defendant is a negro and
the deceased a white policeman." This was overruled and
sentence of death followed.
Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals for the District
the following error, among others, was assigned: "The

316

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

283 U.S.

court's action in refusing the request of the defendant to
propound to the jury during the court's examination of the
jury on its voir dire as to whether any juror may entertain
racial prejudice in the matter of a homicide where the
defendant is a negro and the deceased a white policeman."
Replying to this that court said"Counsel for defendant assigns as error the refusal of
the court to allow him to inquire of the prospective jurors
on their voir dire whether they entertained racial prejudice in a case wherein the defendant is a negro and the
deceased a white man. We had occasion to consider this
same question in the case of Crawfordv. United States, 59
App. D. C. 356. We have given the matter further careful
consideration in this case and find no reason to recede from
our former decision. In a jurisdiction like the District of
Columbia, where the colored race is accorded all the privileges and rights under the law, that are afforded the white
race, and especially the right to practice in the courts,
serve on the jury, etc., we are of the opinion that there
was no abuse of discretion on the part of the trial court in
refusing to permit the question to be answered by the
jurors."
This Court granted a certiorari to bring up the judgment of affirmance but limited review to the point raised
by the quoted assignment of error.
It appears that while the trial judge was examining
prospective jurors on their voir dire, counsel for the accused said to him: "At the last trial of this case I understand there was one woman on the jury who was a southerner, and who said that the fact that the defendant was
a negro and the deceased a white man perhaps somewhat
influenced her. I don't like to ask that question in public." The precise nature of "that question" is unknown
to us. The Judge thought "that question" (whatever it
was) improper and refused to ask it. Whereupon counsel
noted an exception and "requested the court to allow the

ALDRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
308

MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

record to show that the question relative to racial prejudice be propounded to each and every prospective juror,
with the exception heretofore noted on behalf of the
defendant."
Solely because of the refusal of the trial judge to propound an undisclosed question "relative to racial prejudice," (whatever that may be) we are asked to upset a
judgment approved by the judges of both local courts
who, it is fair to presume, understand conditions in the
District better than we do.
Nothing is revealed by the record which tends to show
that any juror entertained prejudice which might have
impaired his ability fairly to pass upon the issues. It is
not even argued that considering the evidence presented
there was room for reasonable doubt of guilt.
It does appear that counsel said he understood at a
former trial a female juror, a southerner, (whatever that
may mean) declared "the fact the defendant was a negro
and the deceased a white man perhaps somewhat influenced her." And that is the sum of the information
to be gathered from the record in respect of any "race
prejudice" which might have so distorted some juror's
judgment as to prevent honest and fair consideration.
How this unidentified woman juror voted; whether she
was white or black; whether her prepossessions were right
or wrong or materially different from those generally entertained by men of one color towards those of another;
we cannot know. But "perhaps she was somewhat influenced" by the fact that the dead man and the defendant were of different color. Must we therefore decide
that "perhaps" and accordingly some member of the
second jury failed to act fairly, intelligently, and without
due regard to his oath!
Two local courts could not conclude that there was
adequate reason for holding the accused man had suffered
deprivation of any substantial right through refusal by

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

the trial judge to ask prospective jurors something relative to racial prejudice. And certainly I am unable to
affirm that they were wrong.
Section 391 of the U. S. Code, I think, was intended to
prevent escape of culprits from prompt, deserved punishment in cases like this. Congress had clear right to put
the limitation on courts of review and the enactment
should be given effect according to its purpose.
Unhappily, the enforcement of our criminal laws is
scandalously ineffective. Crimes of violence multiply;
punishment walks lamely. Courts ought not to increase
the difficulties by magnifying theoretical possibilities. It
is their province to deal with matters actual and material;
to promote order, and not to hinder it by excessive theorizing of or by magnifying what in practice is not really
important.
I think the judgment below should be affirmed.
STRATON ET

AL.

v. NEW, TRUSTEE IN BANK-

RUPTCY,

ET AL.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 137. Argued March 3, 1931.-Decided April 20, 1931.
1. Where creditors have obtained and docketed judgments constituting liens on the real estate of their debtor, and have instituted a
creditors' suit in a state court -to marshal the liens and enforce
them by a sale of the real estate, the bankruptcy of the
debtor, occurring more than four months after the institution
of the creditors' suit, does not oust the state court of jurisdiction,
nor vest in the court of bankruptcy power to enjoin further

proceedings in the state court. Pp. 320, 323.
2. The state court proceeding described in the certificate in this
case, when examined with the West Virginia statutes upon which
it is based, is found to be a suit by a judgment creditor for the
enforcement of the lien of his judgment on the debtor's real estate,

