OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

the taxes as laid were beyond the State's authority. Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 52, 53, 57.
For this reason the judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. HUSSEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 342. Argued March 18, 19, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. Evidence offered by a litigant and excluded, but preserved in the

record, may be considered upon review in determining his liability.
P. 138.
2. Under an arrangement between two railroad companies a section

of the main line of one was used by coal trains of the other by
means of a switch connection. Due to a defect in the mechanism
for turning the switch signal-light, which could have been discovered by due care, the switch was left open by men operating a
train of the second company at night, leaving the green light showing the main line clear, with the result that a passenger train of
that line was deflected and a passenger injured. Held that the
company owning the main line was responsible to the passenger
for the condition of the signal and liable for his injuries. P. 139.
42 F. (2d) 70, affirmed.

Certiorari, 282 U. S. 826, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a recovery in an action
for personal injuries, which was removed from a state
court on the ground of diversity of citizenship.
Mr. Charles A. Houts, with whom Messrs. Samuel B.
McPheeters and H. N. Quigley were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. William H. Allen, with whom Messrs. Jesse W.
Barrett, Ellison A. Poulton, and Mark D. Eagleton were
on the brief, for respondent.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. HUSSEY.
136

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit to recover for personal injuries suffered by
the plaintiff, the respondent here, a passenger upon a train
of the petitioner and on the petitioner's road, in consequence of a collision with a train of the Evansville, Indianapolis and Terre Haute Railway Company, a corporation
of Indiana. The petitioner, to meet the plaintiff's prima
facie case, relied upon the following facts. The collision
happened in Indiana on September 2, 1927. A statute
of that State authorized Indiana railroads to cross and
unite with any other railroad before constructed, and required the intersected road to unite with the new one in
forming such intersections and connections and to grant
specified facilities. 3 Burns, Ann. Stat., 1926, ยง 12931.
Other sections authorized and ratified contracts for running trains of one road over the tracks of another, and
made the railroad so running its trains over the tracks of
another liable to the same extent as if it owned the tracks.
In January, 1922, the petitioner made a contract with
the Evansville road providing for a connection with the
petitioner's line to enable the Evansville Company to
carry coal from mines near Francisco, where the lines connected, to Oakland City, a distance of about seven miles.
The Evansville Company was to reimburse the petitioner
for the 150-foot connection and was to maintain it at its
own cost in all respects in accordance with the requirements of the petitioner. The petitioner was to have control of operations on this section of the main track, to
provide for the movement of the Evansville trains over
the section, and to furnish the necessary operators, signal
men, &c. The Evansville crews and employees while in
the section were to be governed by the petitioner's rules
and amenable to orders of the petitioner's superintendent. We think it unnecessary to quote further in order

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

to show the relation in which the petitioner stood to this
portion of its own road. This contract was offered in evidence by the defendant but was excluded subject to its
exception. It is before us in the record, but as it does not
change the petitioner's liability in this case it does not
matter whether it is let in or kept out. See Fairmont
Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U. S. 1, 5.
The two roads are connected of course by a switch. The
lever by which the switch was opened and shut was connected with a signal device so arranged that when the
switch was closed and it was safe to go ahead on the main
line a green light was shown. If the switch was open a
red light meant stop. Just before the collision an Evansville train was waiting on the sidetrack to go to Oakland
City. The switch had been opened in expectation of going on, but the conductor, learning that there was not time
before the probable arrival of a Southern train, ordered it
to be closed. A man started to do it but, seeing the green
light displayed, supposed that it had been closed already
and did nothing. In fact, owing to a defect in the switch,
the green light had failed to give way to the red as it
should have done, and when the Southern train arrived
its engineer was led to think that the way over the main
track was clear. The train went ahead but was turned on
to the sidetrack and ran into the waiting Evansville train,
causing disaster and death.
The Court instructed the jury that if the plaintiff was
injured as a direct result of the negligence of either company, or of both, they should find for the plaintiff. There
was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff and the judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 42 F.
(2d) 70. A writ of certiorari was granted by this Court.
The petitioner states the question as being whether it
is liable for an injury to a passenger caused by the negligence of the employees of the other company in failing to

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. HUSSEY.
136

Opinion of the Court.

close the switch that connected the two roads, which was
installed, owned and operated exclusively by and for the
benefit of the Evansville Company; was so constructed,

maintained and operated under the compulsion of a
statute of Indiana, and was so constructed and operated
under a contract expressly authorized by the statutes of
Indiana. But this statement needs a good deal of qualification. It is doubtful whether the statute in the word
'unite' contemplates more than intersection. It certainly did not require the contract that the petitioner
made. The terms of that contract were of the petitioner's
own choosing and they gave the paramount authority to
the Southern road. As was to be expected, the main track
remained its own and subject to its control. There is no
dispute that the collision was caused by an interruption of
the course of the main line through the misplacement of a
switch in consequence of a defect in the signal. The
Southern road had not abdicated its control over its main
line or its ultimate authority over the switch. If, as the
jury must have found under the instructions, the defect
in the light was not due to a sudden inevitable accident
but could have been avoided by care, the Southern road
owed that care to the plaintiff, and therefore, whether the
men immediately in contact with the switch were employees of the Evansville or the Southern Company the
Southern was responsible for this condition to the passengers in its train. Railroad Co. v. Barron, 5 Wall. 90.
McElroy v. Nashua & Lowell R. R. Corp., 4 Cush. 400.
This case is not of the class concerning the liability of a
lessor for injuries immediately attributable to the lessee,
but concerns a responsibility for the condition of its road
from which the petitioner did not divest itself, even if it
could.
Judgment affirmed.

