MOTT v. UNITED STATES.
738

747

Statement of the Case.

The supplemental decree is modified accordingly and
as so modified is affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

MOTT v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 78. Argued December 2, 1930.-Decided June 1, 1931.
1. The United States may sue in behalf of an Indian ward for the
purpose of asserting and enforcing his interest in property diverted
from a trust fund while being administered by the Government's
officers. P. 750.
2. Authority of the Secretary of the Interior to withhold his approval,
necessary to make good a lease of a restricted Indian allotment,
includes the lesser authority to give his approval upon condition
that the royalties from the lease shall be paid to a representative
of the Secretary in trust for the Indian and shall be disbursed only
with the Secretary's sanction. P. 751.
3. A fund held by the Secretary of the Interior for a full-blood Creek
Indian, which was derived from royalties on the lease of the
Indian's restricted allotment (Act of May 27, 1908) and which is
held by the Secretary in trust for the Indian and not to be disbursed without the Secretary's consent, is not subject to be
disposed of by the Secretary merely at his own volition. P. 751.
4. Where the Secretary disbursed such a fund upon a written request
which purported to come from the Indian but which the Indian
was mentally incompetent to make or understand, the disbursement
was unauthorized. P. 752.
5. In such a case, there is no ground for contending that the Secretary could supply the necessary intent for the incompetent or that
there is in the transaction an implied finding of competency that
may not be questioned in the courts. P. 752.
37 F. (2d) 860, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 714, to review a decree which
reversed a decree, 33 F. (2d) 340, dismissing the bill in a

748

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

suit by the United States to recover certain bonds on
behalf of an Indian.
Mr. Charles B. Rogers for petitioner.
Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General
Richardson,and Messrs. Nat M. Lacy and Paul D. Miller
were on the brief for the United States.
Messrs. John W. Davis, Hugh H. O'Bear, Carroll G.
Walter, Rayburn L. Foster, and Almond D. Cochran, by
special leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a suit brought by the United States on behalf of
Jackson Barnett, a full-blood Creek Indian, to recover
certain United States bonds, charged to have been wrongly
diverted from a trust fund held for him, or their proceeds
or value if they have been converted.
A second amended bill of complaint was tendered for
filing, to which the defendant objected on the ground that
it did not state a cause of action. The court, treating
the objection as if it were a motion to dismiss the tendered complaint after filing, held that no cause of action
was stated and dismissed the suit.' On appeal the Circuit Court-of Appeals held that a cause of action was adequately stated and reversed the decree with directions to
permit the complaint to be filed.' Certiorari was then
granted by this Court.
The suit arises out of the same transactions that were
the basis of the litigation described in United States v.
Equitable Trust Co., ante, p. 738.
The case stated in the tendered complaint is as follows. Barnett received an allotment from the lands of
' 33 F. (2d) 340.

3 37 F. (2d) 860.

MOTT v. UNITED STATES.
747

Opinion of the Court.

the Creek tribe. His title was in fee simple, but by
reason of his being a full-blood Creek was subject to
restrictions against alienation and leasing, except with the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior? Besides being
under that disability, he was and still is by reason of
mental infirmity incapable of managing his own affairs,
comprehending the nature or extent of his property or
understanding any kind of business transaction. Because
of his mental infirmity he was adjudged an incompetent
and subjected to guardianship by the probate court of the
county of his residence in Oklahoma.
Apart from the approval of the lease about to be mentioned, the restrictions incident to his status as a fullblood Creek have never been removed or qualified.
In 1912 Barnett, with his guardian joining therein,
executed a lease of his land for oil and gas purposes, the
lease being approved by both the probate court and the
Secretary of the Interior. The lease and the Secretary's
regulations, which were made part of the lease, required
that the royalties be paid to a local representative of the
Secretary in trust for Barnett and disbursed only with the
Secretary's sanction. In time the royalties yielded a
large fund, which the Secretary invested for Barnett's
benefit in United States bonds.
In February, 1923, the Secretary, at Barnett's request,
distributed the larger part of the bonds in gifts. One
gift was to Barnett's purported wife and included S550,000 of the bonds. His request that the gifts be made was
in the form of a written instrument on which he placed
a thumb mark signature-he being then incapable, by
reason of his mental infirmity, of comprehending or understanding the nature, import or effect of the instru'Acts March 1, 1901, c. 676, 31 Stat. 861; June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32
Stat. 500; May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312. And see Act May 10,
1928, c. 517, 45 Stat. 495.

750

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

ment. The Secretary approved the request by an endorsement on the instrument and then transferred the
bonds to the designated donees.
The wife immediately delivered $150,000 of the bonds
to one McGugin, and he thereupon passed $15,000 of
them to the defendant, Marshall L. Mott. Both
McGugin and Mott at the time had full knowledge that
the wife received the bonds as a gift out of Barnett's
trust fund, that that fund represented royalties from the
oil and gas lease of his restricted land, and that by reason
of mental infirmity he was without capacity to initiate
or make a gift or disposal of the bonds.
Mott has refused and still refuses to return the bonds
so received by him to the United States or to account
for their proceeds or value.
The prayer of the complaint is that Mott be required
to surrender into court the bonds, or their proceeds or
value if they have been converted, to the end that they
may be restored to the fund from which they were diverted and there held for Barnett's use and benefit.
We are of opinion that the facts thus shown are such
as to entitle the United States to the equitable relief
which it seeks. Its right to sue in behalf of an Indian
ward for the purpose of asserting and enforcing his interest in property diverted from a trust fund while being
administered by the Government's officers is obvious.
Barnett is such a ward, for he is a full-blood Creek Indian
who has not been relieved from the restrictions we have
described. The approval by the Secretary of the Interior
of the oil and gas lease did not terminate them. It made
the lease effective, but otherwise left the restrictions in
full force. Besides, it subjected the royalties to restrictions similar to those applying to the leased land from
which the royalties would come. This was accomplished
by a provision in the lease whereby, agreeably to the

MOTT v. UNITED STATES.
747

Opinion of the Court.

Secretary's regulations, the royalties were to be paid to a
representative of the Secretary in trust for Barnett and
disbursed only with the Secretary's sanction. The authority of the Secretary to withhold his approval includes
the lesser authority to give his approval upon condition
that the royalties be thus conserved and protected.'
But while the Secretary is authorized to prevent improvident alienation or leasing by restricted Creek allottees, he is not authorized to alien or lease in their stead
and right. This is plainly the effect of the statutory provisions which we quote in the margin.' If an allottee
chooses to alien or lease, the Secretary, if not satisfied
that the transaction will be of benefit to the Indian, can
prevent it by not approving it. But, if the allottee
chooses not to alien or lease, the Secretary cannot do so
for him, even though it appears that the Indian would
be benefited. And of course the Secretary cannot merely
'Sunderland v. United States, 266 U. S. 226, 235; Starr v. Campbell, 208 U. S. 527, 533; United States v. Thurston County, 143 Fed.
287, 291; National Bank of Commerce v. Anderson, 147 Fed. 87. 90.
'The Act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, provides:
"Sec. 1. . . . That . . . all allotted lands of enrolled fullbloods . . . shall not be subject to alienation, contract to sell, power
of attorney, or any other incumbrance . . .except that the Secretary

of the Interior may remove such restrictions, wholly or in part, under
such rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal of
the proceeds for the benefit of the respective Indians as he may
prescribe ...
"Sec. 2. That all lands other than homesteads

. . .

from which

restrictions have not been removed may be leased by the allottee if an
adult, or by guardian or curator under order of the proper probate
court if a minor or incompetent, for a period not to exceed five years,
without the privilege of renewal: Provided, That leases of restricted
lands for oil, gas or other mining purposes, leases of restricted homesteads for more than one year, and leases of restricted lands for
periods of more than five years, may be made, with the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior, under rules and regulations provided
by the Secretary of the Interior, and not otherwise."

752

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

of his own volition make gifts or donations of the Indian's
restricted land.
Like principles apply to restricted funds such as that
arising from Barnett's royalties. That fund was his individual property and as such was within the protective
guaranties of the Constitution.' No statute purported to
give any authority for taking it from him. Nor was
there anything in the Secretary's regulations indicative
of an assumption of such authority. On the contrary,
they contemplated that such funds would be held, conserved and protected for the benefit of their Indian
owners.
We need not inquire, as the Circuit Court of Appeals
appears to have done, whether, had Barnett been mentally competent, the gifts named in his purported request
could have been made from his trust fund. That is not
this case. Barnett, according to the complaint, was mentally incompetent to a degree which made him wholly incapable of understanding, intending or making such a request. Therefore the instrument, although bearing his
thumb mark, was not his act and could not bind him.
With it eliminated, the gift in question stood as if made
by the Secretary merely on his own volition. This was
beyond his authority.
The suggestion that his approval supplied the necessary intent on the part of Barnett is but another way of
saying that the Secretary could make the gift merely of
his own volition. The further suggestion that he must
be presumed to have found Barnett free from disability
and that this determination cannot be questioned in the
courts is without merit. If good as to a mental incompetent, it would be good as to an Indian under age or
o Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 677. And see Lane v. Pueblo of
Santa Rosa, 249 U. S. 110, 113.

HALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
747

Syllabus.

even an infant. The suggestion has been disapproved
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.?
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

HILARY HALBERT,

V. UNITED STATES.
RICH HALBERT v. SAME.
VERNON SIDNEY HALBERT v. SAME.
SIDNEY E. HALBERT v. SAME.
PICKERNOLL ET AL. V. SAME.
JR., ET AL.

LULU M. ELLIOTT

ET AL.

v. SAME.

PETIT ET AL. V. SAME.
BARICHIO ET AL. v. SAME.

EDNA MAY ELLIOTT ET AL. v. SAME.
CHAS. G. ELLIOTT, JR., ET AL. v. SAME.
RUBENS ET AL. V. SAME.
WALKOWSKY ET AL. v. SAME.
ROLFSON ET AL. V. SAME.

PROVOE

ET AL.

v. SAME.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 141-154.

Argued March 11, 12, 1931.-Decided June 1, 1931.

1. Indians of the Chehalis, Chinook and Cowlitz Tribes, not allotted
elsewhere, are among those who, under the Act of March 4, 1911,
are entitled to take allotments on the Quinaielt Reservation in the
State of Washington. P. 760.
2. Personal residence on the reservation is not essential to the right
of allotment. P. 762.
'Jennings v. Wood, 192 Fed. 507.
8070*°-31----8

