CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1930
AMERICAN FRUIT GROWERS, INCORPORATED,
v. BROGDEX CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 48.

Argued January 9, 12, 1931.-Decided March 2, 1931.

1. Patent 1,529,461, to Brogden and Trowbridge, claiming a new and
improved process of preparing fresh fruit for market by subjecting
it to the action of a solution of borax, and thus, through the fungicidal properties of that chemical, rendering it resistant to the decay
caused by blue mold, and also claiming, as a product, fresh citrus
fruit of which the rind carries borax of small amount but sufficient to render the fruit resistant to such decay,-is invalid because
the process was anticipated and the product is not within the patent
law. Pp. 11, 13.
2. The claim of a patent must be explained by and read in connection with the specification. P. 6.
3. An orange, the rind of which has become impregnated with borax,
through immersion in a solution, and thereby rendered resistant to
blue mold decay, is not a "manufacture" or manufactured article,
within the meaning of the patent law, U. S. C., Title 35, ยง 31.
P. 11.
4. A patent claim is not novel if it would be infringed by following a
process described in an earlier patent or if the substance of the
thing claimed by the later patent was disclosed by the earlier one.
P. 14.
35 F. (2d) 106, reversed.
sOTO5-31-1
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

2&3 U..

CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 709, to review a decree which
affirmed the District Court, 21 F. (2d) 110, in adjudging
that the patent of the present respondent was valid and
was infringed by the petitioner.

Messrs. W. Brown Morton and R. T. M. McCready,
with whom Mr. George E. Middleton was on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Charles Neave, with whom Messrs. Melvillc
Church, Roy F. Steward, and Mitford C. Massie were on
the brief, for respondent.
These patentees have made a real invention of most
substantial importance. The experts of the Department
of Agriculture and also the practical citrus industry, working energetically over a period of more than two decades
in the effort to minimize the losses due to blue mold decay, found and taught, in reiterated statements, two
things: First, the only solution of the difficulty was to
use careful handling; and that did not solve the problem.
Second, chemicals were worse than useless.
It was not until after the invention of these patentees
became known, that any other persons in the art worked
with a view to finding inhibiting rather than killing substances, this being a different line of attack from those
previously used.
The patentees found that borax was the best such substance; and it is the one which everybody now wants to
use.
That this is not an obvious substance for this purpose is
clear from the evidence. Its action is not yet thoroughly
understood; it is only a mild disinfectant but it seems to
have some influence not entirely understood on the rind
of the fruit which enables the solution to prevent the
development of decay.
Even after the invention was announced and demonstrated by the patentees, the experts did not say "of

FRUIT GROWERS, INC., v. BROGDEX CO.

3

Argument for Respondent.

course, that will work." Instead, they made elaborate and
extended tests of their own and were, at first, cautious in
their endorsement of the process, taking it up in a hesitant
and tentative manner. Certainly that means that it was
not an obvious solution of the problem. Such a situation
is often cited as an indication of invention. Eibel Co. v.
Minnesota & 0. Paper Co., 261 U. S. 45, 55; Pyrene Mfg.
Co. v. Boyce, 292 Fed. 480, 484; Westinghouse Air Brake
Co. v. N. Y. Air Brake Co., 59 Fed. 581, 593; Gandy v.
Main Belting Co., 143 U. S. 587, 594.
The importance of the invention is widely recognized.
It solved a problem of long standing and supplied a long
felt want. There is, therefore, a strong presumption that
what has been done amounts to patentable invention.
McClurg v. Kingsland, 1 How. 202; Gandy v. Main Belting Co., supra; Eibel Co. v. Minnesota & 0. Paper Co.,
supra; Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 620; Heller Bros. Co.
v. Crucible Steel Co., 297 Fed. 39; United Verde Copper
Co. v. Peirce-Smith Converter Co., 7 F. (2d) 13; Trane
Co. v. Nash Engineering Co., 25 F. (2d) 267.
The patent properly covers the invention. The process
is covered by certain of the claims. It emphasizes the
effective impregnation of the exposed rind or skin tissues
(i. e., exposed by the inevitable, though often slight,
mechanical injuries) with the borax solution, the fluidity,
strength and temperature of the solution, and the duration of treatment, being such as to bring this about. Also,
the borax, having impregnated the wounds in the skin, is
not to be washed off, but is to remain there in effective
quantity until the fruit is consumed. It is to continue to
be present and continue to act to prevent the growth of
the spores.
By the manufacturing process an article has been produced which never before existed-fruit, the rind of which
carries borax. That article does not grow; it is made by
using, as a part of the complete article, something which

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

283 U.S.

has grown-much as one uses wood or other products of
nature as a part of manufactured articles. This, is a
"manufacture."
Riter-Conley Mfg. Co. v. Aiken, 203
Fed. 699, 703; Armstrong Seatag Corp. v. Smith's Island
Oyster Co., 254 Fed. 821.
The tariff cases cited by petitioner are not applicable to
narrow the definition of an article of manufacture as contemplated by the patent statute. This is because the
question of what is and what is not an article of manufacture under the highly technical provisions of tariff schedules is determined by the courts, in any given instance,
upon a rule or underlying principle obviously very different from that controlling the question in patent law.
Hartranftv. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609; Anheuser-Busch v.
United States, 207 U. S. 556.
The patent to Bishop describes a procedure in which
sealing or encasing fruit or other article of food in an airexcluding gelatin covering is the object sought, the article
of food being initially washed with a boric acid solution
to kill germs. The patent does not mention fresh fruit,
or blue mold decay; nor does it deal in any way with the
conditions to be met and the problems to be overcome in
preventing blue mold or kindred decay in the commercial
handling of fresh fruit to be marketed as such.
Moreover, as the testimony of defendant's experts conclusively establishes, if it be attempted to treat fresh
fruit, following the directions given in that patent, the
fruit is not only rendered commercially worthless because
of its appearance and other physical characteristics, but
is caused to spoil. The Bishop air-tight covering, which
causes the spoilage, is a wholly different thing from the
optionally applied film coating of paraffin, described in the
patent in suit, which is not air-tight but permits the fruit
to breathe.
The very volume of the prior art set up by the defendant serves to emphasize the patentable character of what

FRUIT GROWERS, INC., v. BROGDEX CO.

5

Opinion of the Court.

Brogden and Trowbridge did. Carnegie v. Cambria, 185
U. S. 403, 445; American Stainless Steel Co. v. Ludlum
Steel Co., 290 Fed. 103, 105, 106; Westinghouse Air-Brake
Co. v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 88 Fed. 258, 263; Fleischman Yeast Co. v. Federal Yeast Corp., 8 F. (2d) 186, 197.
The defendant's theory seems to be that any prior patent or publication mentioning borax or boric acid as being
used, or attempted or suggested to be used, as a preservative, is pertinent. 'What Brogden and Trowbridge did
was to ascertain that borax was a particularly good inhibiting agent for their purposes, namely, controlling blue
mold decay in the commercial large-scale handling of fresh
fruit, when applied in their manner; and what they have
patented is a process for applying it and the product
resulting from such application.
The prior patents and publications show nothing of
that. They disclose, what we fully admit, that borax and
boric acid had, many years ago, been proposed as preservatives in canning and pickling processes-even before any
problems had arisen in connection with the decay caused
by blue mold on fresh citrus fruits, and also in subsequent
years. But they do not disclose any process by which the
results of the invention in issue could be attained.
The burden of proof is strongly on the defendant in
attempting to prove prior use or prior invention, and
every reasonable doubt should be resolved against him.
MR.

JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Brogdex Company, present owner of United States
Letters Patent No. 1,529,461, relating to "certain new
and useful improvements in the art of preparing fresh
fruit for market," applied for August 13, 1923, and issued
to Brogden and Trowbridge March 10, 1925, presented its
bill of complaint to the District Court for Delaware April
15, 1926, wherein it charged that the defendant (peti-

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

tioner here), the American Fruit Growers, Inc., had in-

fringed, and asked an injunction, accounting, damages, etc.
It relied upon Claims Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 14, 15, 16,

17 and 18, which describe the process of treatment, also
Nos. 23, 24, 25 and 26, which concern the product.
Both courts below held all of these claims valid and
infringed; and directed that petitioner be enjoined from
using any process therein specified, also from manufacturing, selling, or using "treated fruit embodying and
containing the invention described in said letters patent
and secured by any of said [product] claims."
Of the process claims, the following is characteristic"3. In the preparation of fresh fruit for market, the
process which comprises subjecting fruit to the action of
an aqueous solution of borax, the fluidity, strength and
temperature of the treating solution, and the duration
of the treatment, being such that exposed rind or skin
tissues of the fruit are effectively impregnated with borax
and rendered resistant to blue mold decay, while at the
same time the fruit is not scalded nor is its freshness or
edibility otherwise substantially impaired."
The following is typical of the product claims"26. Fresh citrus fruit of which the rind or skin carries borax in amount that is very small but sufficient to
render the fruit resistant to blue mold decay."
"The claim of a patent must always be explained by
and read in connection with the specification." Carnegie
Steel Co. v. CambriaIron Co., 185 U. S. 403, 432.
The specification in respect of the patent states"This invention relates to art of preparing fresh fruit
for market; and in particular it relates to processes for

the treatment of citrus and other fruits in such manner
that the development of molds and the like upon the
fruit, and especially the development of blue mold and
infection by blue mold spores,- is prevented or arrested
either wholly or to such large extent as greatly to pro-

FRUIT GROWERS. INC., v. BROGDEX CO.

7

Opinion of the Court.

long the marketable life of the fruit beyond what has
been possible heretofore; the complete treatment most
desirably also including a step of providing the fruit with
a very thin film-like coating of protective material comprising a waxy substance such as paraffin; all as will
more fully hereinafter appear.
"The greatest present utility of the invention is in the
treatment of citrus fruits such as oranges, grapefruit,
lemons, tangerines, etc.; also apples and other fruits that
are attacked by blue mold or the like. The invention is
broad, however, and the term fruit as herein employed is
to be understood as not necessarily restricted to fruit in
the sense in which the word is usually employed, but is
to be understood broadly as including not only fruit proper
but also vegetables, such as tomatoes or the like, that
can be treated to advantage in accordance with the principles of the invention to be hereinafter set forth.
"For the sake of a concrete example whereby the principles of the invention may be illustrated and explained,
reference will be made hereinafter more particularly to
the treatment of citrus fruit, especially oranges and lemons, which are especially subject to attack and destruction
by blue mold. It is a well-known fact that a large part
of the losses from decay in the marketing of various fruits,
such as citrus fruits and apples, is attributable directly
to the action of blue mold. The problem of how to suppress or control blue mold development on fruits has
been the subject of extensive and careful investigation,
but admittedly no thoroughly satisfactory solution of the
problem has heretofore been offered. In spite of elaborate precautions taken in the handling and transportation of fruits to market, it is not uncommon for shipments
of oranges and the like to arrive at marketing points showing in some cases as much as 30 to 40 per cent decay
directly attributable to blue mold. The various investigations of the subject have shown that while blue mold

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
( )pinion of t he Court.

-11
C '.S.

does not ordinarily attack perfectly sound fruit that is
free from bruises, cuts, thorn-pricks or punctures. the
slightest surface cut or scratch affords a point of attack
by providing lodgment for blue mold spores which develop with great rapidity and soon bring about complete destruction of the infected fruit ...
"The present applicants have discovered that by proper
treatment of the fruit in the packing house it is possible
to greatly reduce, and often to absolutely prevent, the
growth or development of blue mold on fruit for long
periods of time, and thus to materially lessen or even
eliminate the heretofore unavoidable losses from decay.
Moreover, it is possible to achieve these results without
upsetting or greatly changing present practice so far as
concerns the mechanical handling of fruit in packing
houses of the modem type. Thorough practical tests of
the novel processes have demonstrated conclusively that,
by proceeding in accordance with the invention, blue mold
development can be arrested, and fruit can be rendered
immune to attack by blue mold spores, in a simple and
effective manner without affecting the freshness and
flavor of the fruit, the marketable life of the fruit being
thus prolonged far beyond that of untreated fruit. In
view of the well known persistent activity of blue mold
spores even under conditions fatal to the parent mold,
the importance of this achievement is obvious. In general, the process of the invention involves applying to the
fruit a mold-inhibiting reagent comprising the boric acid
radical, said compound being most desirably alkaline in
reaction and being employed in concentration effective to
render the surface of the fruit unfavorable as a
medium for blue mold development. Ordinary borax
(NaB.O+IOH2 0) has been found after extensive investigation, to be especially potent in its retarding and
inhibiting action in this connection, and this substance
is considered at present to be the most desirable to employ

FRUIT GROWERS, INC., v. BROGDEX CO.
1

4

Opinion of the Court.

in practicing the invention. A water solution of borax
is alkaline in reaction, but is without corrosive or other
deteriorating action upon fruit to which it is applied.
Boric acid is not so effective as a mold-retarder as is
borax; but compounds of boron, whether acid or alkaline, appear to have a specific inhibiting action upon
blue mold; and hence it is not desired to limit the invention, so far as concerns compounds of boron, to the employment of an alkaline treating solution.
"The method of applying the treating solution to the
fruit may assume various specifically different forms, the
precise details of procedure being not essential to the invention in its broader aspects. However, where it is desirable, as may often be the case, to carry out the process
without changing prior practice any more than is strictly
necessary, the application of the mold-retarding agent
may be effected as a part of or in conjunction with the
usual washing operation to which the fruit is initially subjected in its handling according to modern packing house
methods, especially as most of the mold-retarding agents
herein contemplated also have excellent cleansing or detergent properties. Accordingly, in the practice of the
invention, the mold-retarding agent, borax in a specific
instance, may be added in proper mold-inhibiting quantity directly to the wash water in the usual soaking tank
into which the fruit is dumped from the field boxes as it
comes from the groves. ...
"From this point on, the handling of the fruit in further preparation for boxing and shipment may or may not
involve additional preservative treatment in accordance
with the principles of the invention. This depends upon
whether or not the fruit is to receive an application of
protective coating material for the purpose of preventing
or reducing shrinkage and withering and of ensuring conservation of the original freshness and flavor of the fruit
for prolonged periods of time. Generally this further

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

treatment is highly desirable, and if the benefits of the
invention are to be realized to the fullest extent, this further treatment should be carried out. It consists in applying to the fruit a normally solid protective material,
especially paraffin or like waxy material, in such condition
that it can be spread all over the surface of the fruit to
produce an extremely thin protective film which is not
noticeable except by the expert eye and does not interfere with the so-called breathing or transpiration .of the
fruit to an undesirable extent, but which is effective to
conserve the original plumpness and freshness of the
fruit as above stated . ..
"In the foregoing disclosure of the principles of the invention, reference has been made more particularly to
blue mold as a source or cause of decay. Such reference
to blue mold is to be taken, not as restrictive, but as generic and as intended, both in the specification and in the
claims, to cover not only blue mold but all kindred rot
and decay organisms and diseases generally amenable to
treatment in accordance with the invention, to which
fruit is or may be susceptible and by which it may be
damaged under the conditions prevailing in packing and
marketing ..
Petitioner admits ownership of plants which pack and
sell citrus fruits and that when preparing these for market
it caused them to be dipped in a borax solution in order
to prevent or retard decay incident to growth of blue mold.
Under the treatment applied the raw fruit is immersed in
a cold or warm solution of borax or boric acid, permitted
to remain until thoroughly wet, then rinsed, dried and
brushed. Infringement is admitted, if the patent is
valid.
In defense petitioner maintains that the product claims
of the patent fail to describe an article of manufacture
within the meaning of the statute. Also that the process

FRUIT GROWERS, INC., v. BROGDEX CO.

11

Opinion of the Court

claims are invalid for various reasons, among them anticipation by United States Letters Patent No. 683,899, issued
October 8, 1901, upon application of Simeon Bishop.
Is an orange, the rind of which has become impregnated
with borax, through immersion in a solution, and thereby
rendered resistant to blue mold decay, a "manufacture,"
or manufactured article, within the meaning of ยง 31,
Title 35, U. S. Code?
"Any person who has invented or discovered any new
and useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of
matter, or any new and useful improvements thereof,
not known or used by others in this country, before his
invention or discovery thereof, and not patented...
may . . . obtain a patent therefor."
Answering affirmatively, the Circuit Court of Appeals
said: "The product claims define an article of manufacture, since the fruit is the result of a process which is
defined and described and not a natural product. The
product is a combination of the natural fruit and a boric
compound carried by the rind or skin in an amount sufficient to render the fruit resistant to decay. The complete article is not found in nature and is thus an article
of manufacture. Riter-Conley Mfg. Co. v. Aiken, et al.,
203 Fed. 609."
This position, we think, is not tenable.
"Manufacture," as well defined by the Century Dictionary, is "the production of articles for use from raw
or prepared materials by giving to these materials new
forms, qualities, properties, or combinations, whether by
hand-labor or by machinery." Also "anything made for
use from raw or prepared materials."
Addition of borax to the rind of natural fruit does not
produce from the raw material an article for use which
possesses a new or distinctive form, quality, or property.
The added substance only protects the natural article

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the (Court.

2R) U.S.

against deterioration by inhibiting development of extraneous spores upon the rind. There is no change in
the name, appearance, or general character of the fruit.
It remains a fresh orange fit only for the same beneficial
uses as theretofore.
In Hartranft v. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609, 613, 615,
this Court considered the meaning of the words "manufactures of shells" and held that "cleaning off the outer
layer of the shell by acid, and then grinding off the second layer by an emery wheel, so as to expose the brilliant
inner layer," did not convert it into a manufacture. " The
shells in question here were not manufactured, and were
not manufactures of shells, within the sense of the statute
imposing a duty of 35 per centum upon such manufactures, but were shells not manufactured, and fell under
that designation in the free list. They were still shells.
They had not been manufactured into a new and different article, having a distinctive name, character or use
from that of a shell. The application of labor to an article, either by hand or by mechanism, does not make
the article necessarily a manufactured article, within the
meaning of that term as used in the tariff laws. Washing and scouring wool does not make the resulting wool
a manufacture of wool. Cleaning and ginning cotton
does not make the resulting cotton a manufacture of
cotton."
And in Anheuser-Busch Assn. v. United States, 207
U. S.556, 562, where it was claimed that corks for bottles
which had undergone special treatment after importation
thereby became articles manufactured in the United
States, this Court said: "Manufacture implies a change,
but every change is not manufacture, and yet every
change in an article is the result of treatment, labor and
manipulation. But something more is necessary, as set
forth and illustrated in Hartranft v. Wiegmann, 121 U. S.

FRUIT GROWERS, INC., v. BROGDEX CO. 13
1

Opinion of the Court.

609. There must be transformation; a new and different article must emerge 'having a distinctive name,
character or use.'"
If it be assumed that the process claims under consideration cover an invention, we think this lacked novelty
when application was made for the patent, August 13,
1923. The underlying conception had been adequately
revealed in Bishop's Patent of 1901.
-He claimed"1. The method of treating articles of food to preserve
and enhance their value, which consists in washing them
with a solution of boracic acid and then applying a coating of gelatin, substantially as described.
"2. The method of treating articles of food to preserve
and enhance their value, which consists in washing them
with a solution of boracic acid and then applying a coating of gelatin, and finally wrapping the article in tissue
paper which has been impregnated with a solution of boracic acid, substantially as specified."
And in the specification he affirmed"This invention aims to prolong the period of usefulness of fruit, vegetables, eggs, and the like as articles of
food and prevent their usual rapid decay and deterioration, thereby benefiting the grower, the shipper, the merchant, and the consumer.
"The invention consists in subjecting the article of
food to an antiseptic bath to purify, cleanse, and kill all
germs, then treating it to a coat of air-excluding material.
This process not only preserves the articles of food, but
enhances its value. ...
"The application of boracic acid is advantageous in
that it prevents decay and adds to the appearance of the
article and is perfectly harmless to the human system.
The gelatin, besides excluding the air, also adds to the
appearance of the article ..

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2&3 U.S.

That boracic (boric) acid-a weak acid-and borax.
with an alkaline reaction, inhibit the rapid development
of blue mold has long been known. Both are compounds
of boron and contain the "boric acid radical." Their
antiseptic quality is due to the presence of that element.
For present purposes, the two must be regarded as
equivalents, and the mere substitution of one for the other
would not involve invention or avoid infringement.
Walker on Patents, 6th ed., ยง 426.
Read together, the claims and specification of the
Bishop patent show that he intended it should have wide
application and cover treatment of citrus, as well as other,
fruits. He distinctly states the application of boracic
acid prevents the usual rapid decay, and upon this basic
fact respondent endeavors to support the patent in suit.
True, Bishop proposed as a secondary step the application of gelatine, which he averred would exclude the air
and enhance the appearance of the article. But Brogden
and Trowbridge also said in their specification that "if
the benefits of the invention are to be realized to the
fullest extent," the fruit after being soaked should receive
an application of protective coating material, such as
paraffin, or like waxy material. If the claims of the
patent in suit are valid, one operating under the process
described by Bishop would infringe-and considering the
circumstances here disclosed, that is enough to show invalidity of the later patent. Knapp v. Morss, 150 U. S.
221, 228. It lacks novelty. The substance of its disclosures had been revealed by Bishop twenty years
earlier. Sewall v. Jones, 91 U. S. 171, 182, et seq.
Reversed.

