OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

4. The prayer of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
for the appointment of a river master is denied without
prejudice.
5. This decree is without prejudice to the United States
and particularly is subject to the paramount authority
of Congress in respect to navigation and navigable waters
of the United States, and subject to the powers of the Secretary of War and Chief of Engineers of the United States
Army in respect to navigation and navigable waters of the
United States.
6. Any of the parties hereto, complainant, defendants
or intervenor, may apply at the foot of this decree for
other or further action or relief and this Court retains
jurisdiction of the suit for the purpose of any order or direction or modification of this decree, or any supplemental
decree that it may deem at any time to be proper in relation to the subject matter in controversy.
7. The costs of the cause shall be divided and shall be
paid by the parties in the following proportions: State
of New Jersey 35 per cent., City of New York 35 per cent.,
State of New York 15 per cent., Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 15 per cent.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
SMOOT SAND &- GRAVEL CORPORATION v.
WASHINGTON AIRPORT, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 678.

Argued April 17, 1931.-Decided May 4, 1931.

1. The boundary line between Virginia and the District of Columbia

is at high water mark on the Virginia side of the Potomac. Mary-

SMOOT CO. v. WASHINGTON AIRPORT.
348

349

Opinion of the Court.

land-v. West Virginia,217 U. S. 577, and Marine Railway v. United
States, 257 U. S. 64, considered. P. 350.
2. The compact
of each State
in this case.
44 F. (2d) 343,

of 1785 between Maryland and Virginia gave citizens
rights in the shof'es but did not affect the boundary
P. 351.
reversed.

CERTIoRAR, post, p. 812, to review a decree which reversed a decree of the District Court dismissing the suit
for want of jurisdiction. The suit was brought by the
Airport Co. in a Virginia court and was removed to the
Federal court. It sought to enjoin the present petitioner
(which was operating under a Government contract,) from
excavating, filling, constructing a wall, etc., on lands
claimed by the airport on the south shore of the Potomac.

Mr. Thomas D. Thacher, with whom Messrs. Seth W.
Richardson, G. A. Iverson, Paul W. Kear, and Erwin N.
Griswold were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Louis Titus for respondent.
Messrs. JohnR. Saunders, Attorney General of Virginia,
Edwin H. Gibson and Collins Denny, Jr., Assistant Attorneys General, and Hugh Reid, by special leave of Court,
filed a brief on behalf of the Commonwealth of Virginia as
amicus curiae.
MR. JusTicE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the respondent for an injunction against alleged trespasses on land between high and
low water mark on the Virginia side of ,the Potomac
River opposite the District of Columbia. It was brought
originally in the Circuit Court of Arlington County, Virginia, and on the petition of the defendant the Smoot
Sand and Gravel Company was removed to the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2S3 U.S.

Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Virginia. That Court dismissed the case for want of
jurisdiction, but the decree was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 44 F. (2d) 342. A writ of certiorari
was granted by this Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals states that the sole question presented is whether the boundary line between Virginia and the District of Columbia is at high or at low
water mark on the Virginia side of the Potomac, and that
is the only question argued here. In view of the previous
decisions and intimations of this Court it does not need
extended discussion now.
It must be assumed, notwithstanding some suggestion of
ancient controversies, that the title of Maryland was that
conveyed to Lord Baltimore by the charter of Charles I.
and ran to and along the farther bank of the Potomac
River. Marine Railway & Coal Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 47, 63. This means that the boundary was the usual
high water mark, Oklahoma v. Texas, 260 U. S. 606, 626,
et seq.; so that the only question is whether anything has
happened since to change the original line. At the present stage of this old discussion the most important inquiry
is raised by the supposed contradiction between the language of this Court in settling the decree in Maryland v.
West Virginia, 217 U. S. 577, and that in the later case of
Marine Railway & Coal Co. v. United States, 257 U. S.
47. With regard to that it is to be noticed that Mr. Justice Day, who wrote the earlier decision, took part also
in the later and seems to have agreed with it. There was
no adequate reason why he should not have agreed.
Maryland v. West Virginia was a suit to settle a portion
of the boundary line between those States. The decision
could not affect the District of Columbia. It relied primarily upon an arbitration upon the issue in 1877, in
which it was admitted that the original boundary was

SMOOT CO. v. WASHINGTON AIRPORT.
348

351

McRzYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

high water mark on the Virginia side, but held that the
low water mark was established by prescription. The arbitration also relied upon a Compact of 1785, 1 Dorsey,
Maryland Laws, 1692-1839, p. 187; 12 Hening, Virginia
Statutes, p. 50, giving it a construction to which we cannot agree. Prescription was a sufficient reason for the
decision, and could not be invoked against the District.
The Compact is seen in a different light in Marine Railway & Coal Co. v. United States. As stated in 257 U. S.
64, Article 7 gave the citizens of each State full property
in the shores of the River adjoining their lands and the
privilege of carrying out wharves, &c., but left the question of boundary open to long continued disputes. The
rights of private citizens established by Article 7 were
further cared for by Article 12 giving citizens of each
State having lands in the other liberty to transport to
their own State the produce of such lands or to remove
their effects, free of any charge or tax. But private ownership does not affect State boundaries. Some argument
is based on the word 'shores.' But that is merely a topographical indication and imports nothing as to the sovereignty over them. We adhere to the opinion that the
Compact has no bearing on the present case.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissenting.
Twenty years ago (1910), in Marylandv. West Virginia,
217 U. S. 577, it was definitely ruled by this Court (and
rightly so) that under the compact of 1785 between Virginia and Maryland the uniform southern boundary of
the latter State was low water mark on the right bank
of the Potomac. Proper solution of the present controversy depends upon the precise question there decided.
Fair consistency and proper regard for titles along the

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

283 U. S.

ten-mile river front in the District of Columbia, I think,
demand that we follow what was thus solemnly declared.
Marine Ry. Co. v. United States (1921), 257 U. S. 47,
was a proceeding begun by them to recover land on the
Potomac River front at Alexandria originally below low
water mark. Notwithstanding the essential point there
was distinct from the one upon which Maryland v. West
Virginia turned, the opinion carefully affirmed that "the
former decisions of the Court must be followed so far as
they go "-a truism, I submit, still worthy of acceptation.
And the further observation that "the compact between
Virginia and Maryland in 1785 also seems to us to have
no bearing upon the case" is plainly correct, whether
relevant or not.
As Marine Ry. Co. v. United States related only to land
below low water mark the compact of 1785 of course was
inapplicable to the controversy. That compact did not
undertake to settle titles to lands so located. No more
did it apply to lands in Baltimore City.
In such circumstances the suggestion that the writer
of the opinion in Maryland v. West Virginia by assenting
to Marine Ry. Co. v. United States gave his approval to
a doctrine directly opposed to the one he had definitely
expressed for the Court seems to me without substance.
The Court, through him, had ruled that the Maryland
boundary extended to low water mark on the south side.
Why should he object to an opinion which after expressly
accepting former decisions held that land lying in the
river north of that line had been part of Maryland?
The challenged decree should be affirmed.

