STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
152

163

Syllabus.

to recover as if owners according to the terms of the
original act and the license to the du Pont Company.
Manifestly, such an interpretation would give rise to a
grave constitutional objection--deprivation of the Chemical Foundation of property without due process. Moreover, the licensee accepted the grant under the provision
that any suit for compensation should be brought by the
owner within one year after termination of the war, "for
all use and enjoyment of the said patented invention,"
and if not, "then the licensee shall not be liable to make
any further deposits, and all funds deposited by him shall
be repaid to him on order of the alien property custodian." In the circumstances the act cannot be interpreted
and applied as suggested.
The decree below must be
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR.JUSTICE STONE took

no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY (INDIANA) ET

AL. V.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 378. Argued January 13, 14, 15, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. Agreements for interchange of licenses under patents covering
processes for the manufacture of an article sold in interstate commerce, may be illegal under the Sherman Act if part of a larger
plan to control interstate markets or if their necessary effect is to
suppress or unduly to restrict competition. They should therefore be closely scrutinized. P. 168.
2. An interchange of patent rights and a division of royalties according to the value attributed by the parties to their respective patent
claims is frequently necessary if technical advancement is not to
be blocked by threatened litigation; aid if the available advantages
are open on reasonable terms to all manufacturers desiring to par-

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

283 U.S.

ticipate, such interchange may promote rather than restrain competition. P. 170.
3. Unless the industry is dominated, or interstate commerce directly
restrained, the Sherman Act does not require cross-licensing patentees to license at reasonable rates others engaged in interstate
commerce. P. 172.
4. Three corporations, in the business of producing gasoline and owning patents for " cracking" processes by which the yield of gasoline
from crude petroleum is greatly increased, joined with another corporation owning a similar patent, in agreements for exchanges of
patent rights and division of royalties, which were challenged by
the Government as obnoxious to the Sherman Act, chiefly upon the
ground that they enabled the corporations to maintain existing royalties and thereby to restrain interstate commerce. Held:
(1) That the evidence must be examined to ascertain the operation and effect of the agreements. P. 173.
(2) Since no monopoly, or restriction of competition, either (a)
in the business of licensing patented cracking processes, or (b) in
the production of either ordinary or cracked gasoline, or (c) in the
sale of gasoline, has been effected, either by means of the agreements or otherwise, it is not shown that, by agreeing upon royalty
rates, the patentees could control either the price or the supply.
Therefore, agreement upon such rates is not a ground for injunction. P. 175.
(3) To warrant an injunction which would invalidate the contracts here in question, and require either new arrangements by the
patent owners or settlement of their conflicting claims by litigation, there must be a definite factual showing of illegality. P. 179.
5. Failure of the Government to take a cross-appeal from the decree
of the District Court granting part of the relief sought in this case,
makes unnecessary a review of findings adverse to the Government's
contention that the patents were invalid and the cross-licensing
agreements made in bad faith. P. 180.
6. In a suit for an injunction under the Sherman Act, questions
raised by the Government as to validity of' agreements between
defendants become moot when the agreements are canceled by
the defendants at the request of the District Court before entry
of the decree. P. 181.
33 F. (2d) 617, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree granting part of the relief sought
by the Government in a bill charging an illegal combina-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
163

165

Opinion of the Court.

tion to monopolize and restrain interstate commerce by
controlling that part of the supply of gasoline which is
produced by the process of "cracking."
Messrs. Charles Neave and C. B. Ames, with whom
Messrs. L. L. Stephens, Russell Wiles, John W. Davis,
Chester 0. Swain, William R. Carlisle, Drury W. Cooper,
Harry T. Klein, John B. Marsh, and Ramsay Hoguet were
on the brief, for the Standard Oil Co. (Indiana) et al.,
appellants.
Mr. G. H. Dorr,with whom Messrs. James J. Cosgrove,
Frank L. Crawford, Oscar J. Dorwin, Richard E. Dwight,
Earle W. Evans, FrancisI. Fallon, W. H. Francis, George
V. Holton, Albert L. Hopkins, James P. Kem, Walter G.
Kirkbride, Charles A. Kreps, R. E. Lamberton, William
A. McAfee, Charles G. Middleton, S. A. Mitchell, Burton
W. Musser, G. J. Neuner, Peter M. Speer, Oscar Sutro,
C. A. Thompson, J. Merrill Wright, Merritt Starr, H. 0.
Bentley, Donald J. De Wolfe, and Edgar E. Townes were
on the brief, for the Beacon Oil Co. et al., appellants.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant to the
Attorney General O'Brian and Mr. Charles H. Weston,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTicE BRANDEIs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the United States in June,
1924, in the federal court for northern Illinois, to enjoin
further violation of § 1 and § 2 of the Sherman AntiTrust Act, July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209. The violation charged is an illegal combination to create a monopoly
and to restrain interstate commerce by controlling that
part of the supply of gasoline which is produced by the
process of cracking. Control is alleged to be exerted by

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

means of seventy-nine contracts concerning patents relating to the cracking art. The parties to the several contracts are named as defendants. Four of them own
patents covering their respective cracking processes, and
are called the primary defendants. Three of these, the
Standard Oil Company of Indiana, the Texas Company,
and the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, are themselves large producers of cracked gasoline. The fourth,
Gasoline Products Company, is merely a licensing concern. The remaining forty-six defendants'manufacture
cracked gasoline under licenses from one or more of the primary defendants. They are called secondary defendants.
Upon the filing of the answers, which denied the violation charged, the case was referred to a special master to
take and report the evidence to the court, together with
his findings of fact and conclusions of law. Although the
Attorney General had filed an expediting certificate I on
February 24, 1925, it was not until January 20, 1930, that
the District Court entered its final decree. The hearings
before the master extended over nearly three years. The
evidence, including 327 exhibits, fills more than 4300
pages of the printed record. The master's report, which
occupies 240 pages, is devoted largely to a discussion of
the seventy-three patents and seventy-nine license contracts. The master found that the primary defendants
had not pooled their patents relating to cracking processes; that they had not monopolized or attempted to
monopolize any part of the trade or commerce in gasoline;
and that none of the defendants had entered into any
combination in restraint of trade. He recommended that
the bill be dismissed for want of equity. After a hearing,
on 273 exceptions filed by the Government, the District
Court granted some of the relief asked. 33 F. (2d) 617.
' Pursuant to the Act of February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823, as
amended by Act of June 25, 1910, c. 428, 36 Stat. 854.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
163

167

Opinion of the Court.

The primary defendants and twenty-five of the secondary
defendants appealed to this Court. An order of severance
was entered, and the injunction was stayed.
The issues to which most of the evidence was addressed
have been eliminated. The violation of the Sherman Act
now complained of rests substantially on the making and
effect of three contracts entered into by the primary defendants. The history of these agreements may be briefly
stated. For about half a century before 1910, gasoline
had been manufactured from crude oil exclusively by
distillation and condensation at atmospheric pressure.
When the demand for gasoline grew rapidly with the widespread use of the automobile, methods for increasing the
yield of gasoline from the available crude oil were sought.
It had long been known that, from a given quantity of
crude, additional oils of high volatility could be produced by "cracking "; that is, by applying heat and pressure to the residuum after ordinary distillation. But a
commercially profitable cracking method and apparatus
for manufacturing additional gasoline had not yet been
developed. The first such process was perfected by the
Indiana Company in 1913; and for more than seven years
this was the only one practiced in America. During that
period the Indiana Company not only manufactured
cracked gasoline on a large scale, but also had licensed
fifteen independent concerns to use its process and had
collected, prior to January 1, 1921, royalties aggregating
$15,057,432.46.
Meanwhile, since the phenomenon of cracking was not
controlled by any fundamental patent, other concerns
had been working independently to develop commercial
processes of their own. Most prominent among these
were the three other primary defendants, the Texas Company, the New Jersey Company, and the Gasoline Products Company. Each of these secured numerous patents
covering its particular cracking process. Beginning in

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

1920, conflict developed among the four companies concerning the validity, scope, and ownership of issued patents. One infringement suit was begun; cross-notices
of infringement, antecedent to other suits, were given;
and interferences were declared on pending applications
in the Patent Office. The primary defendants assert that
it was these difficulties which led to their executing the
three principal agreements which the United States attacks; and that their sole object was to avoid litigation
and losses incident to conflicting patents.
The first contract was executed by the Indiana Company and the Texas Company on August 26, 1921; the
second by the Texas Company and Gasoline Products
Company on January 26, 1923; the third by the Indiana
Company, the Texas Company, and the New Jersey Company, on September 28, 1923. The three agreements differ from one another only slightly in scope and terms.
Each primary defendant was released thereby from liability for any past infringement of patents of the others.
Each acquired the right to use these patents thereafter
in its own process. Each was empowered to extend to independent concerns, licensed under its process, releases
from past, and immunity from future claims of infringement of patents controlled by the other primary defendants. And each was to share in some fixed proportion the
fees received under these multiple licenses. The royalties
to be charged were definitely fixed in the first contract; and
minimum sums per barrel, to be divided between the
Texas and Indiana companies, were specified in the second
and third. These royalty provisions, and others, will be
detailed later.
First. The defendants contend that the agreements
assailed relate solely to the issuance of licenses under their
respective patents; that the granting of such licenses, like
the writing of insurance, New York Life Ins. Co. v. Deer
Lodge County, 231 U. S. 495, is not interstate commerce;
and that the Sherman Act is therefore inapplicable. This

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
163

169

Opinion of the Court.

contention is unsound. Any agreement between competitors may be illegal if part of a larger plan to control interstate markets. Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38;
Shawnee Campress Co. v. Anderson, 209 U. S. 423. Such
contracts must be scrutinized to ascertain whether the restraints imposed are regulations reasonable under the circumstances, or whether their effect is to suppress or unduly restrict competition. Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, 246 U. S. 231, 238; Paramount Famous
Lasky Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30, 43. Moreover,
while manufacture is not interstate commerce, agreements
concerning it which tend to limit the supply or to fix the
price of goods entering into interstate commerce, or which
have been executed for that purpose, are within the prohibitions of the Act. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375, 397; Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295, 310; United States v. Trenton Potteries
Co., 273 U. S. 392. And pooling arrangements may obviously result in restricting competition. Compare Northern Securities Co. v. UnitedStates, 193 U. S. 197, 326. The
limited monopolies granted to patent owners do not exempt them from the prohibitions of the Sherman Act and
supplementary legislation. StandardSanitary Mfg. Co. v.
United States, 226 U. S. 20; Virtue v. Creamery Package
Mfg. Co., 227 U. S. 8. Compare United Shoe Machinery
Co. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451; United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476.2 Hence the necessary
2

Historically, patent grants were only narrow exceptions to the
general public policy against monopolies which developed from the
Case of Monopolies, Moore 671, 11 Co. 84, and culminated in the
Statute of Monopolies, 21 Jac. I, c. 3, §§ V-VI. See Price, The
English Patents of Monopoly, cc. 1-3. Compare the debates on the
Sherman Act, 21 Cong. Rec., Pt. III, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., pp.
2455-62. Even apart from the limitations of the Anti-Trust laws,
the monopoly granted by the patent statute is not unrestricted in
scope. Compare Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Development
Corp., ante, p. 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

effect of patent interchange agreements, and the operations under them, must be carefully examined in order to
determine whether violations of the Act result. Standard
Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20.8
Second. The Government contends that the three
agreements constitute a pooling by the primary defendants of the royalties from their several patents; that
thereby competition between them in the commercial exercise of their respective rights to issue licenses is eliminated; that this tends to maintain or increase the royalty
charged secondary defendants and hence to increase the
manufacturing cost of cracked gasoline; that thus the
primary defendants exclude from interstate commerce
gasoline which would, under lower competitive royalty
rates, be produced; and that interstate commerce is
thereby unlawfully restrained. There is no provision in
any of the agreements which restricts the freedom of the
primary defendants individually to issue licenses under
their own patents alone or under the patents of all the
others; and no contract between any of them, and no
license agreement with a secondary defendant executed
pursuant thereto, now imposes any restriction upon the
quantity of gasoline to be produced, or upon the price,
terms, or conditions of sale, or upon the territory in which
sales may be made.' The only restraint thus charged is
that necessarily arising out of the making and effect of the
provisions for cross-licensing and for division of royalties.
The Government concedes that it is not illegal for the
primary defendants to cross-license each other and the
respective licensees; and that adequate consideration can
legally be demanded for such grants. But it contends
8 Similarly, agreements relating to other limited statutory monopolies, such as copyrights, are within the Act. Straws v. American Publishers' Assn., 231 U. S. 222. Compare Ingersoll & Bro. v. McColl,
204 Fed. 147.
4 Restrictive provisions in the first contract and in certain licenses
issued pursuant thereto were eliminated before the entry of the
decree below. See infra, p. 181.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
163

171

Opinion of the Court.

that the insertion of certain additional provisions in these
agreements renders them illegal. It urges, first, that the
mere inclusion of the provisions for the division of royalties, constitutes an unlawful combination under the Sherman Act because it evidences an intent to obtain a
monopoly. This contention is unsound. Such provisions
for the division of royalties are not in themselves conclusive evidence of illegality. Where there are legitimately
conflicting claims or threatened interferences, a settlement
by agreement, rather than litigation, is not precluded by
the Act. Compare Virtue v. Creamery Package Co., 227
U. S. 8, 33. An interchange of patent rights and a division
of -royalties according to the value attributed by the parties to their respective patent claims is frequently necessary if technical advancement is not to be blocked by
threatened litigation." If the available advantages are
open on reasonable terms to all manufacturers desiring to
participate, such interchange may promote rather than
restrain competition.' Compare American Column &
Lumber Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377, 414-15;
Maple Flooring Manufacturers Assn. v.' United States,
268 U. S. 563, 578.
5

This is often the case where patents covering improvements of a
basic process, owned by one manufacturer, are granted to another.
A patent may be rendered quite useless, or "blocked," by another
unexpired patent which covers a vitally related feature of the manufacturing process. Unless some agreement can be reached, the parties
are hampered and exposed to litigation. And, frequently, the cost
of litigation to a patentee is greater than the value of a patent for a
minor improvement. See Interchange of Patent Rights, National
Economic Conference Board, Trade Associations-Their Economic
Significance and Legal Status (1925) e. IX; Fenning, Interest of
Trade Associations in Patents and Trade-Marks, 3 Harvard Business
Rev. 81, 82.
0 Such agreements, varying in purpose, scope, and validity, are not
uncommon. See Rep. Atty. Gen. (1924) p. 16; id. (1925) p. 20.
Conflict of patents in the automobile industry, and the early difficulties encountered with an alleged basic patent (see Electric Vehicle
Co. v. Winton Motor-Carriage Co., 104 Fed. 814, 172 Fed. 923,

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Third. The Government next contends that the agreements to maintain royalties violate the Sherman Law because the fees charged are onerous. The argument is that
the competitive advantage which the three primary defendants enjoy of manufacturing cracked gasoline free of
royalty, while licensees must pay to them a heavy tribute
in fees, enables these primary defendants to exclude from
interstate commerce cracked gasoline which would, under
lower competitive royalty rates, be produced by possible
rivals. This argument ignores the privileges incident to
ownership of patents. Unless the industry is dominated,
or interstate commerce directly restrained, the Sherman
Act does not require cross-licensing patentees to license
at reasonable rates others engaged in interstate commerce.
Compare Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70;
United States v. GeneralElectric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 490.
The allegation that the royalties charged are onerous is,
standing alone, without legal significance; ' and, as will
reversed, 184 Fed. 893), led to an agreement in 1915 by which the

members of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce crosslicensed each other without royalty for the use of all patent improvements. This agreement was renewed as to existing patents in 1925.
See Epstein, The Automobile Industry, pp. 227-239, 361. Interchange of basic aviation patents was made during the world war, at
the suggestion of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics;
and this agreement, providing for fixed royalties, was approved by
the Attorney-General. See 31 Op. Atty. Gen. 166. In 1928 the
arrangement was modified and renewed. See 26 Aviation (1929),
pp. 728-29; Report of Select Committee of Inquiry into Operations
of the United States Air Services, H. Rep. No. 1653, 68th Cong., 2d
Sess., pp. 10-14. Various patent exchanges existing in the radio
industry are detailed in the Report of the Federal Trade Commission
on the Radio Industry (1923), c. II, Appendices. See also Ann. Rep.
Federal Trade Comm. 1924, pp. 19-20; Federal Trade Comm. v.
General Electric Co., F. T. C. Docket No. 1115, dismissed December
19, 1928. For early patent interchanges and combinations in other
industries, see Vaughan, Economics of Our Patent System, pp. 34-104.
7 The Government introduced no evidence in support of the allegation that the royalty rates charged are onerous; and, as will be

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
163

173

Opinion of the Court.

be shown, neither the alleged domination, nor restraint of
commerce has been proved.
Fourth. The main contention of the Government is
that even if the exchange of patent rights and division of
royalties are not necessarily improper and the royalties
are not oppressive, the three contracts are still obnoxious
to the Sherman Act because specific clauses enable the
primary defendants to maintain existing royalties and
thereby to restrain interstate- commerce. The provisions
which constitute the basis for this charge are these. The
first contract specifies that the Texas Company shall get
from the Indiana Company one-fourth of all royalties
thereafter collected under the latter's existing license
agreements; and that all royalties received under licenses
thereafter issued by either company shall be equally
divided. Licenses granting rights under the patents of
both are to be issued at a fixed royalty-approximately'
that charged by the Indiana Company when its process
was alone in the field. By the second contract, the Texas
Company is entitled to receive one-half of the royalties
thereafter collected by the Gasoline Products Company
from its existing licensees, and a minimum sum per barrel
for all oil cracked by its future licensees. The third contract gives to the Indiana Company one-half of all royalties thereafter paid by existing licensees of the New Jersey Company, and a similar minimum sum for each barrel
treated by its future licensees,-subject in the latter case
to reduction if the royalties charged by the Indiana and
Texas companies for their processes should be reduced.,
detailed later, the continued operations of the licensees, their increasing production, and the absence of complaint on their part tend to
disprove the charge. Compare Notes 11, 17, infra.
8 Payments received by the Texas and Indiana companies under the
second and third contracts are divided equally by these companies
pursuant to the terms of the first. That contract further provides that
all royalties received after January 1, 1937, even from existing
licensees, are to be divided equally between the two companies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

The alleged effect of these provisions is to enable the primary defendants, because of their monopoly of patented
cracking processes, to maintain royalty rates at the level
established originally for the Indiana process.
The rate of royalties may, of course, be a decisive factor
in the cost of production. If combining patent owners
effectively dominate an industry, the power to fix and
maintain royalties is tantamount to the power to fix
prices.' National Harrow Co. v. Hench, 76 Fed. 667;
affirmed, 83 Fed. 36, see also 84 Fed. 226; Blount Mfg.
Co. v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., 166 Fed. 555. Where
domination exists, a pooling of competing process patents,
or an exchange of licenses for the purpose of curtailing
the manufacture and supply of an unp.atented product, is
beyond the privileges conferred by the patents and constitutes a violation of the Sherman Act. The lawful individual monopolies granted by the patent statutes cannot
be unitedly exercised to restrain competition. Standard
Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; United
States v. New Departure Mfg. Co., 204 Fed. 107; United
States v. Motion Picture Patents Co., 225 Fed. 800, appeal dismissed, 247 U. S. 524. Compare United States v.
Kellog Toasted Corn Flakes Co., 222 Fed. 725; United
Where the royalty demanded is a fixed percentage of the gross
sales price, this relationship is clear. A combination of patent-owning
manufacturers, which required royalty payments on this basis and
which appeared to dominate the automobile bumper industry, was
dissolved by a consent decree entered in the District Court for
Southern New York in December, 1917. See United States v.
Discher, unreported, noted in Federal Antitrust Laws and Decisions
(Department of Justice) 1928, pp. 147-48. See also National Economic Conference Board, op. cit. supra note 5, pp. 139-40; United
States v. Discher, 255 Fed. 719. Moreover, the monopoly granted
by the patent does not include the right to fix the resale price of the
patent product. Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1; Straus v.
Victor Talking Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490; Boston Store v. American Graphophone Co., 246 U. S. 8.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
163

175

Opinion of the Court.

States v. Eastman Kodak Co., 226 Fed. 62, appeal dismissed, 255 U. S. 578.1° But an agreement for crosslicensing and division of royalties violates the Act only
when used to effect a monopoly, or to fix prices, or to impose otherwise an unreasonable restraint upon interstate
commerce. Compare Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186
U. S. 70; Cement Manufacturers Protective Assn. v.
United States, 268 U. S. 588, 604; United States v. General
Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 490; United States v. Trenton
Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392, 397. In the case at bar, the
primary defendants own competing patented processes for
manufacturing an unpatented product which is sold in interstate commerce; and agreements concerning such processes are likely to engender the evils to which the Sherman Act was directed. Compare United States v. InternationalHarvesterCo., 214 Fed. 987, appeal dismissed, 248
U. S. 587. We must, therefore, examine the evidence to
ascertain the operation and effect of the challenged
contracts.
Fifth. No monopoly, or restriction of competition, in
the business of licensing patented cracking processes resulted from the execution of these agreements. Up to
1920 all cracking plants in the United States were either
owned by the Indiana Company alone, or were operated
under licenses from it. In 1924 and 1925, after the crosslicensing arrangements were in effect, the four primary
defendants owned or licensed, in the aggregate, only 55%
of the total cracking capacity, and the remainder was distributed among twenty-one independently owned cracking
processes. This development and commercial expansion
'oSuch agreements, though involving patent rights, have also been
held to be in violation of state anti-trust laws. Vulcan Powder Co. v.
Hercules Powder Co., 96 Cal. 510; 31 Pac. 581; State v. Creamery
Package Mfg. Co., 110 Minn. 415, 435; 126 N. W. 126. Cf. United
Shoe Machinery Co. v. La Chapelle, 212 Mass. 467, 479; 99

N. E. 289.

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

of competing processes is clear evidence that the contracts

did not concentrate in the hands of the four primary de-

fendants the licensing of patented processes for the production of cracked gasoline.1" Moreover, the record does
not show that after the execution of the agreements there
was a decrease of competition among them in licensing

other refiners to use their respective processes. 2
No monopoly, or restriction of competition, in the production of either ordinary or cracked gasoline has been
proved. The output of cracked gasoline in the years in

question 11 was about 26% of the total gasoline production. Ordinary or straight run gasoline is indistinguishable from cracked gasoline and the two are either mixed
or sold interchangeably. Under these circumstances the

primary defendants could not effectively control the sup11 There is no evidence in the record showing the ratio of defendants' processes to those of other companies after 1925. Ratios since
then are indicated in the official Bureau of Mines surveys of cracking
plants, which, beginning in 1929, report the distribution of the various
cracking processes. See Petroleum Refining Statistics, 1928, Department of Commerce, Bureau of Mines, Bull. 318, pp. 122-23; id.,
Survey of Cracking Plants, January 1, 1930, Information Circular
No. 6305, p. 6.
12 Between the execution of the respective contracts and the bringing of this suit, the Indiana Company issued two new licenses, the
Texas Company two, and Gasoline Products ten. Between the filing
of the bill and May, 1925, the Gasoline Products Company appears
to have issued ten additional new licenses. There is no evidence
concerning the licensing operations of the other three primary defendants in this period.
18 The estimates of the production of cracked gasoline, and other
evidence upon which the injunction was issued in January, 1930, cover
only the period to 1925. Much of this evidence, including statements of the production of two of the three producing primary
defendants, relates to operations no later than 1924. Although frequently given in terms of barrels, production figures, where used in
this opinion, have been uniformly converted into gallons.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

177

Opinion of the Court.

163

ply or fix the price of cracked gasoline by virtue of their
alleged monopoly of the cracking processes, unless they
could control, through some means, the remainder of the
total gasoline production from all sources.'
Proof of

such control is lacking. Evidence of the total gasoline
production, by all methods, of each of the primary defendants and their licensees is either missing or unsatisfactory in character.'
The record does not accurately
14 In addition to straight run and cracked gasoline, which are
refined from crude oil, a third kind, known as natural-gas or casinghead gasoline, is produced from natural gas. In 1925 this method
accounted for 7.6% of the total gasoline production. Petroleum
Refining Statistics, 1926, Department of Commerce, Bureau of Mines,
Bull. No. 289, pp. 57-58. Because of its great volatility, natural-gas
gasoline is now mainly used for blending with other types. See
American Petroleum Institute, Petroleum Facts and Figures (2d ed.,
1929) pp. 152-54. Thus it increases the total amount of gasoline
refined, and, to this extent, control of production of natural-gas
gasoline might be necessary to secure complete domination of the
gasoline refining industry. There is, however, no evidence as to the
production or purchase of this type of gasoline by any of the primary
defendants except the New Jersey Company and its subsidiaries,
which in 1925 manufactured about one-fifth of all the natural-gas
gasoline recovered.
" In 1924 the total gasoline production in gallons was 8,959,680,198;

in 1925 it was 10,886,127,000. The New Jersey Company and its
subsidiaries, as to which complete estimates alone are given in the
record, produced by all methods 1,445,273,195 gallons, or about 16%
of the total in 1924; and 1,581,314,145 gallons, or about 14.5% in
1925. The Texas Company estimated its total production, exclusive
of its licensees, for the year 1924 at 602,918,348 gallons, or about
6.6% of the total. These are the only estimates as to the total
production of all kinds of gasoline. In the absence of definite figures
as to such total gasoline production by all methods, domination of the
refining industry by the three primary defendants cannot be shown.
Compare Federal Trade Commission, Prices, Profits, and Competition
in the Petroleum Industry, Sen. Doc. No. 61, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pp. 157 et seq.
8005"-1-

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

show even the total amount of cracked gasoline produced,"'
or the production of each of the licensees, or competing
refiners. Widely variant estimates of such production figures have been submitted. These were not accepted by
the master and there is no evidence which would justify
our doing so."
No monopoly, or restriction of competition, in the sale
of gasoline has been proved. On the basis of testimony
relating to the marketing of both cracked and ordinary
gasoline, the master found that the defendants were in
active competition among themselves and with other refiners; that both kinds of gasoline were refined and sold
in large quantities by other companies; and that the primary defendants and their licensees neither individually
nor collectively controlled the market price or supply of
any gasoline moving in interstate commerce. There is
ample evidence to support these findings.
16 No Bureau of Mines statistics on the production of gasoline,
distributed according to method of refining, exist for the period prior
to January, 1925. See Petroleum Refining Statistics, 1916-25, Department of Commerce, Bureau of Mines, Bull. No. 280, p. 125.
Hence all the statistics presented as to the total amount of cracked
gasoline produced theretofore are only estimates.
27 The Government estimated that in 1924 the total production of
cracked gasoline amounted to 1,443,036,000 gallons. The New Jersey
Company estimated that the total production in that year was
1,680,000,000 gallons; and an estimate based on a Bureau of Mines
statement that cracked gasoline was 20% of the total, comes to
1,791,938,400 gallons. If the New Jersey figure is accepted as a
base, it appears that in 1924, the Indiana Company produced 444,307,600 gallons of cracked gasoline, or 26.5% of the total; the Texas
Company, 316,552,110 gallons, or 18.8%; and the New Jersey Company and its subsidiaries, 350,491,190 gallons, or 20.8%. Thus, on
this basis, these three primary defendants manufactured 66.1% of
the total cracked gasoline in 1924. In reliance on its own estimated
total production, which was the lowest submitted, the Government
alleged that they manufactured 81.04% in the same year. The
inaccuracy of all of these estimates of total production of cracked

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
163

179

Opinion of the Court.

Thus it appears that no monopoly of any kind, or restraint of interstate commerce, has been effected either by
means of the contracts or in some other way. In the absence of proof that the primary defendants had such control of the entire industry as would make effective the
alleged domination of a part, it is difficult to see how they
could by agreeing upon royalty rates control either the
price or the supply of gasoline, or otherwise restrain competition. By virtue of their patents they had individually
the right to determine who should use their respective
processes or inventions and what the royalties for such use
should be. To warrant an injunction which would invalidate the contracts here in question, and require either
new arrangements or settlement of the conflicting claims
by litigation, there must be a definite factual showing
of illegality. Chinago Board of Trade v. United States,
246 U. S. 231, 238.
gasoline is aptly illustrated by the first official Bureau of Mines figures
for the next year, 1925. See Note 16, supra. For that year the total
cracked gasoline production is reported at 2,880,486,000 gallons---or
over a billion gallons more than the highest estimate for 1924. Compare Bull. 280, loc. cit. supra, Note 16.
Moreover, to determine the total production of both primary and
secondary defendants, the Government calculated the prcduction of
each licensee by dividing its royalty payments by varying estimates
of the amount of royalty per gallon. Adding these amounts to its
estimated production of the three producing primary defendants, it
submitted that in 1921 the primary defendants and their licensees
refined about 86% of the total cracked gasoline produced, and in 1924
about 94%. But in most cases royalties were paid by the secondary
licensees on the basis of the amount of "charging stock" or residual
oil treated. To determine a licensee's production from its royalty.
payments, it was thus first necessary to estimate the rate of conversion into finished cracked gasoline. Sufficient data for doing so
accurately for each licensee was lacking. The rate of conversion
differs with the type of installation, composition of stock treated, and
plant efficiency, and the estimated conversion rates relied upon by
the Government varied from 25% to 31%.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Sixth. In the District Court, the Government undertook
to prove the violation charged by showing that the three
agreements challenged were made by the primary defendants in bad faith. The bulk of the testimony introduced
by it, is directed to this issue and relates to the validity
and scope of twenty-three jointly-used patents which
were selected by it for attack.18 This evidence was admitted, over objection, for the purpose of showing that
m
-these patents were either invalid or narrow in scope; that
there was no substantial foundation for the alleged conflicts and threatened infringement suits; that these were
a pretext; and that the patents had been secured, and
their infringement was being asserted, merely as a means
of lending color of legality to the making of the contracts
by which competition would inevitably be suppressed."9
The master found, after an elaborate review of the entire
art, that the presumption of validity attaching to the patents had not been negatived in any way; that they merited
a broad interpretation; that they had been acquired in
18 Prior to trial the United States propounded eighty-one interroga-

tories to each of the primary defendants, concerning the use of some
seventy-three patents. These interrogatories were answered in detail
with the reservation that the admissions of use were merely opinions
of counsel, but that nevertheless each defendant believed adversely
held patents to constitute a basis for suit. The Government selected
twenty-three patents for attack. One hundred and thirty-one of the
273 exceptions filed by it to the master's report concern these patents.
The evidence relating to them comprises five volumes of the present
record.
19
After the first hearing the master certified the question whether
this evidence was admissible. The District Court held that it was.
Nevertheless, in his final report the master stated that he was of the
opinion that examination of the prior art could be made only for the
purpose of determining whether the patents were useful, of adequate
scope, and reasonably related to the contracts. He also ruled that it
was not necessary to determine whether any of the competing process
patents actually infringed another. These rulings were not disturbed
by the court.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 181
163

Opinion of the Court.

good faith; and that the scope of the several groups of
patents overlapped sufficiently to justify the threats and
fear of litigation. The District Court stated that the particular claims should be interpreted narrowly, and that
the respective inventions might be practised without
infringement of adversely owned patents. But it confirmed the finding of presumptive validity and did not
question the finding of good faith. It held that the patents were adequate consideration for the cross-licensing.
agreements and that the violation charged could not be
predicated on patent invalidity. Inasmuch as the Government did not appeal from these findings, we need not
consider any of the issues concerning the validity or scope
of the cracking patents; and we accept the finding that
they were acquired in good faith. Neither the findings
n or the evidence on this issue supply any ground for
invalidating the contracts."0
Seventh. The remaining issues in the case have become
moot. The Government objected to a number of early
Indiana Company licenses which contained certain territorial restrictions on the production of cracked gasoline;
and also to a provision in the first contract between primary defendants, and in licenses thereunder, by which the
Indiana Company secured an option to purchase a portion of the cracked gasoline manufactured in, or shipped
into, its sales territory. At the hearing before the District Court it appeared that these provisions had never
been enforced. Upon the court's request the objectionable clauses were voluntarily canceled some months before the entry of the decree. Similarly, the propriety
20

The District Court also dismissed, upon the master's findings

and recommendation, a supplementary petition against two additional
defendants, which charged that certain patents had been secured by
fraud and that a conspiracy had been entered into to injure the owner
of a competing cracking process. The United States did not appeal
from this order.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

of certain blanket acknowledgments of patent validity in
the first contract, and in a number of licenses under later
contracts, was questioned by the lower court. At its
suggestion, these provisions also were formally canceled
by the parties. As the relief here sought is an injunction,
and hence relates only to the future, United States v.
Hamburg-Amerikanische Packetfahrt-Actien Gesellschaft,
239 U. S. 466, 475, the alleged validity of such provisions
has become moot. Berry v. Davis, 242 U. S. 468; Commercial Cable Co. v. Burleson, 250 U. S. 360; Alejandrino
v. Quezon, 271 U. S. 528; United States v. Anchor Coal
Co., 279 U. S. 812.
Eighth. The District Court accepted the Government's
estimates of cracked gasoline production; found that the
primary defendants were able to control both supply and
price by virtue of their control of the cracking patents;
held that although these patents were valid consideration
for the cross-licenses, the agreement to maintain royalties
was in effect a method for fixing the price of cracked gasoline; and concluded that a monopoly existed as a result
of such agreements. This appears to be the only basis for
the relief granted. But the widely varying estimates, relied upon to establish dominant control of the production
of cracked gasoline were insufficient for that purpose.2
And the court entirely disregarded not only the fact that
the manufacture of the cracked is only a part of the total
gasoline production, but also the evidence showing active
competition among the defendants themselves and with
21 The

court apparently accepted, as accurate, the Government's
estimates of cracked gasoline production, and stated: "It is the
actual production rather than 'cracking capacity' that is significant.
To ascertain whether a monopoly exists we must look to the production rather than the capacity percentages." 33 F. (2d) 617, 625.
But the estimates of total cracked gasoline production cannot be
accepted, and there was no adequate showing of the proportion actually manufactured by these defendants. See Note 17, supra.

INTERSTATE TRANSIT, INC., v. LINDSEY. 183
163

Syllabus.

others. Its findings are without adequate support in the
evidence. The bill should have been dismissed.
The Government now seeks no relief against the secondary defendants. It concedes that fifty-three of the
seventy-nine contracts, originally set out in the petition,
are wholly beyond attack, because they are licenses issued
to secondary defendants prior to the execution by their
licensors of the three main agreements challenged. As to
the remaining contracts between primary and secondary
defendants, the Government on this appeal agreed that
the decree should be modified to declare such contracts
voidable at the option of the licensees. This modification
was assented to at the bar by counsel for the primary
defendants. But as we are of the opinion that the decree
should be reversed and the bill dismissed, we see no occasion for interfering with the present license arrangements.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
INTERSTATE

TRANSIT,

INCORPORATED,

v.

LINDSEY, COUNTY COURT CLERK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 358. Argued March 19, 1931.--Decided April 13, 1931.
1. A state tax upon the operation of motor vehicles engaged exclusively in interstate commerce, being a direct burden on that
commerce, can not be sustained unless it appears affirmatively, in
some way, that it is levied only as compensation for use of the
highways in the State or to defray the expense of regulating motor
traffic. P. 185.
2. Tennessee Act of 1927, c. 89, § 4, imposed upon concerns operating
interstate motor buses on the highways of the State a privilege tax
graduated according to carrying capacity. It is part of a general
revenue act which deals with practically all of the taxes laid by
the State, except taose which admittedly provide for defraying

