OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
283 U. S.
McCAUGHN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. HERSHEY CHOCOLATE CO.
ESTATE OF LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.
ESTATE OF DAVIS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SAME.
ESTATE OF LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.

McCAUGHN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.
ESTATE OF DAVIS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. SAME.
SAME v. KLEIN CHOCOLATE CO.
ESTATE OF LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
McCAUGHN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.
ESTATE OF LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. WILBUR SUCHARD CHOCOLATE CO.
SAME v. SAME.
MCCAUGHN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.
ESTATE OF DAVIS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. YORK CHOCOLATE CO.
ESTATE OF LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.
McCAUGHN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.

McCAUGHN v. HERSHEY CHOCOLATE 00. 489
Opinion of the Court.

488

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 426-441.

Argued April 21, 22, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. "Sweet chocolate" and "sweet milk chocolate," which contain
sugar in addition to chocolate or chocolate and milk solids, and
which are widely known, distributed and used as confectionery,
are "candy" within the meaning of §§ 900 (9), Revenue Act of
1918 and 900 (6), Revenue Act of 1921, imposing excises on the
sales price of candy and other luxuries. P. 490.
2. Administrative construction of a doubtful statute will not be.
lightly disturbed. P. 492.
3. Reenactment of a statutory provision without change in the face
of a consistent administrative construction is persuasive of a
legislative recognition and approval of the statute as construed.
Id.
12 F. (2d) 408, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

282 U. S.827, to review judgments which

reversed judgments in favor of the above-named Collectors in suits in the District Court for recovery of money
collected as taxes.
Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and Messrs. Sewall
Key and J. P. Jackson, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, Erwin N. Griswold, Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel, and HarrisonF. McConnell, Special Attorney, Bureau of Internal Revenue, were on the brief for
petitioners.
Mr. Wiiam Clarke Mason, with whom Messrs. John E.
Snyder, F. Lyman Windolph, C. J. Hepburn, S. V. Hosterman, and A. Allen Woodruff were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUS-ICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Section P30 of the Revenue Act of 1918, 40 Stat. 1057,
1122, impos d, at varying percentages, an excise tax upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

the sales price of enumerated articles, most of which may
be characterized as luxuries. The enumeration of the
ninth subdivision was, "Candy, 5 per centum." Section
900 (6) of the Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 227, 292,
reenacted this provision but reduced the tax to 3%.
Respondents, manufacturers of "sweet chocolate" and
"sweet milk chocolate," brought suits in the District
Court for Eastern Pennsylvania, to recover about $8,000,000 of taxes assessed under these sections for the years
1918 to 1924, on the ground that the articles sold are not
"candy," sale of which was taxed. On written stipulation of the parties, the cases were tried by the court without a jury. Judgments for petitioners were reversed by
the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 42 F. (2d)
408. This Court granted certiorari, 282 U. S. 827, to
resolve the conflict of the decision below with that of the
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, in Malley v. Walter
Baker & Co., 281 Fed. 41.
The trial court found that sweet chocolate is a solid or
plastic mass, made by mixing sugar with chocolate, which
is the powdered cacao nib or bean, with or without the
addition of flavoring material, and that sweet milk chocolate also contains milk solids; that the type of sweet
chocolate manufactured and sold by respondents is commonly sold in small bars, sometimes containing nuts, or
in blocks, "attractively dressed up" for sale under names
which would appeal to candy consumers, and is usually
consumed in the same manner as candy, that i, eaten in
small quantities from the hand as a sweetmeat. One of
the respondents described its product as a " confection
upon some of its labels and display matter.
Respondents rest their case mainly upon differences in
composition of sweet chocolate from that of confectionery,
made principally of sugar or molasses, with or without
the addition of coloring or flavoring matter, which, it is
urged, is alone described by the word "candy."
They

McCAUGHN v. HERSHEY CHOCOLATE CO. 491
488

Opinion of the Court.

assert that chocolate is food and candy is not, and hence
chocolate cannot be properly described as candy. But
it is common knowledge that sugar, also a food. is an ingredient both of candy as thus defined and of sweet chocolate, sometimes to the extent of 50% or more of the latter,
as was conceded on the argument here. We likewise
know, as was conceded, that chocolate in a great variety
of forms is an important ingredient of what is commonly
know as candy, and that pieces of sweet .chocolate of the
type described by the findings are often included in packages of confectionery commonly sold as candy. These
considerations at least suggest that the form and use of
sugar compounds, intended for taste-gratifying consumption, are quite as important in determining whether they
axe candy, as their particular composition. See Malley
v. Walter Baker & Co., supra, p. 46.
No doubt the word "candy," in view of its use to designate confections made principally of sugar before the
widespread consumption of sweet chocolate preparations
as confections or sweetmeats, and as the dictionary suggests, may be used in this narrower and more restricted
sense. But it may be, and we think is used, as the dictionary also suggests, in a popular and more general sense,
as synonymous with sugar compounds sold and used as
confectionery or sweetmeats, and embraces them, as well
as candy made chiefly of sugar.
If it were necessary to our decision, in the absence of
any controlling legislative history or any suggested plausible reason why a tax on candy, in a general revenue
measure taxing luxuries, should be deemed to apply to
one type of confectionery and not the other, we should
hesitate to say that the word' was used in its restricted
sense, or to hold that a substance made of sugar and chocolate, a widely known and popular form of confectionery
identified, in use and method of distribution. with other

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

28311.S.

types of confectionery known as "candy," was not intended to be taxed. See DeGanay v. Lederer, 250 U. S.
376, 381; Van Camp & Sons v. American Can Co., 278
U. S. 245, 253.
Possible doubts as to the proper construction of the language used should be resolved in the light of its administrative and legislative history. Shortly after the adoption of the 1918 Act, Art. 22 of Regulations 47, May 1,
1919, announced that "Candy within the meaning of the
act includes . . . sweet chocolate and sweet milk
chocolate, whether plain or mixed with fruit or nuts."
This continued to be the ruling of the Treasury Department until the repeal of the tax by § 1100 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 253, 352. It and later
regulations excluded unsweetened chocolate from the tax
and, as revised in December, 1920, the regulation, and also
Art. 19 of Regulations 47, January 6, 1922, under the 1921
Act, excluded from the tax all sweet chocolate which obviously would not be consumed in the condition or form
in which sold. This was but a recognition that use may
be a determining factor in ascertaining what sugar compounds are embraced in the word candy.
The administrative construction was upheld in 1922 by
Malley v. Walter Baker & Co., supra, the only case, other
than the present, which has considered it. The provision
has been consistently enforced as construed, was reenacted
by Congress in the 1921 Act, and remained on the statute
books without amendment until its repeal. Such a construction of a doubtful or ambiguous statute by officials
charged with its administration will not be judicially disturbed except for reasons of weight, which this record
does not present. See Brewster v. Gage, 280 U. S. 327,
336; Universal Battery Co. v. United States, 281 U. S.
580, 583; Fawcus Machine Co. v. United States, 282 U. S.
375, 378. The reenactment of the statute by Congress, as
well as the failure to amend it in the face of the consistent

McCAUGHN v. HERSHEY CHOCOLATE CO.
488

493

Opinion of the Court.

administrative construction, is at least persuasive of a
legislative recognition and approval of the statute as
construed. See National Lead Co. v. United States, 252
U. S. 140, 146. We see no reason for rejecting that
construction.
The court below found support for its decision in the
fact that various tariff and revenue acts have separately
classified candy and chocolate, and respondents make the
point here. But it is to be noted that in none of the acts
cited does the word candy appear alone, as in the present
statute. In the earlier tariff acts the duty was laid on
"sugar candy." See Act of August 10, 1790, 1 Stat. 180;
Act of June 7, 1794, 1 Stat. 390. In those of August 5,
1909, 36 Stat. 11; October 3, 1913, 38 Stat. 114, and September 21, 1922, 42 Stat. 858, which may be taken as
typical, a duty was imposed on importations of "sugar
candy and all confectionery not specially provided for" at
one rate, and by different paragraph, on chocolate, at a
different rate. The differences in rate made classification
necessary; and as the cacao bean is not produced in the
United States and sugar is, that fact may be taken to
account in a tariff act for the differences both in rate and
classification. But a difference in composition, relatively
minor so far as it has any bearing on the general character
of the product or its use, is of little moment in determining
whether the product falls within or without a single class
of luxuries taxed, for revenue only, at a single rate.
Similarly, rulings of the Department of Agriculture setting up standards under the Pure Food Laws for the composition of various types of confectionery, including sweet
chocolate, throw no light on the present problem.
Nor, do we think of significance the fact relied upon
here and by the court below that statements inconsistent
with the conclusion which we reach were made to committees of Congress or in discussions on the floor of the
Senate by senators who were not in charge of the bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

28 U. S.

For reasons which need not be restated, such individual
expressions are without weight in the interpretation of a
statute. See Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 474;
Lapina v. Williams, 232 U. S. 78, 90; United States v.
FreightAssn., 166 U. S. 290, 318.
Reversed:
GASOLINE PRODUCTS CO., INC., v. CHAMPLIN
REFINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 362.

Argued April 17, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. The Seventh Amendment preserves the substance of jury trial and
not the old form of procedure. P. 498.
2. Where its requirement of a jury trial has been satisfied by a verdict
according to law upon one issue of fact, the Seventh Amendment
does not compel a new trial of that issue even though another and
separable issue must be tried again. P. 499.
3. Where the practice permits a partial new trial, it may not properly
be resorted to unless it clearly appears that the issue to be retried
is so distinct and separable from the others that a trial of it alone
may be had without injustice. P. 500.
4. Petitioner sued for royalties under a contract licensing the use of a
patented process of manufacture. Respondent counterclaimed for
damages alleged to have resulted from failure by petitioner to perform a related contract to construct part of a plant for lack of
which, respondent said, it incurred expenses for storage and suffered
losses from several causes, including loss of anticipated profits.
There was a verdict for the petitioner on its cause of action and
for the respondent on the counterclaim. Held that in reversing the
judgment as to the counterclaim and directing a new trial with
respect to the amount of damages because of error in the instructions concerning the measure of damages under it, it was not necessary to disturb the judgment on the main cause of action; but there
should be a retrial of all the issues raised by the counterclaim, be-

