664

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283U.S.

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GENERAL ELECTRIC
CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 630.

Argued May 1, 4, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.

1. Patent No. 1,558,436, to Langmuir, for a high-vacuum discharge
tube, used as a detector and as an amplifier in radio communication and telephony, and for the process of making it,-held invalid
for want of invention and because of prior use. Pp. 676, 678, 682.
The tube in question corresponds structurally with earlier, lowvacuum tubes, used as detectors and amplifiers; and, as a device
or product, its only essential difference from them is in its higher
vacuum, produced in the course of manufacture by mechanical exhaustion aided by heat and electronic bombardment. In consequence
of this removal of gas, the tube is not subject to the gas-ionization
which renders the other tubes uncertain and inefficient, especially
when they are used as amplifiers, but is capable, within its limits, of
producing a stable discharge when operated at a fixed voltage, and
will operate at much higher voltages than the earlier tubes. This
tube is an important improvement over the earlier ones; but the
patent can not be sustained, because, as the District Court found
and as the evidence shows, the process for creating high vacua in
tubes was well-known and practised in the art, and the fact that the
ill effects of ionization in such electric discharge devices could be removed by increase of vacuum was so known and disclosed in science
that the application of that means for improving the earlier devices
involved, not invention, but only the expected skill of the art.
2. The question is not whether the prior art had made a practicable
high-vacuum tube, but whether it showed how one could be made,
and demonstrated and disclosed the relationship of the discharge to
the reduced pressure. P. 682.
3. Thb evidence does not establish that the flow of current is due, in
a low-vacuum tube, to the conductivity of ionized gas, and, in a
high-vacuum tube, to something else-pure electron discharge; nor
does it appear that the patentee thought there was such a distinction, or relied upon it to remove ionization effects, rather than upon
the simple expedient of removing the gas known to be responsible
for them. P. 684.

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO. 665
664

Argument for Petitioner

4. A scientific explanation of a known method and device is not patentable. P. 684.
5. Value and general use of a device can not sustain a patent if the
lack of invention is clear. P. 685.
6. The resort to the high-vacuum tube of the patent, and its present
utility, are explained as the natural development of a new art
through the adaptation to it of scientific knowledge that had been
accumulated through investigation and experiment. Id.
7. The prior use of an invention that will invalidate a patent need not
have been accompanied by knowledge of the scientific principles
involved in the invention. P. 686.
44 F. (2d) 931, reversed.

CERIoRARI, 282 U. S. 836, to review a decree holding a

patent valid and infringed, and reversing a decree of the
District Court, 23 F. (2d) 698, which had dismissed the
bill upon the grounds of want of invention, prior invention and prior use. The court below, by an unreported
per curiam opinion of October 3, 1929, had at first affirmed
the dismissal upon the opinion of the District Judge. The
contrary decree here under review was rendered after a
reargument.

Messrs. Thomas G. Haight and Samuel E. Darby, Jr.,
with whom Messrs. Carl A. Richmond and William R. Ballard were on the brief, for petitioner.
The patent discloses nothing new or patentable over
the prior art. Long before Langmuir's earliest claimed
date of conception, the art was fully familiar with pure
electron discharge devices claimed by the patent, as well
as all of the methods and means for producing the high
vacuum necessary for such tubes. Indeed, the prior art
structures are admittedly identical with those of the Langmuir patent, and the only difference therefrom asserted by
respondent is in the degree of evacuation of said devices.
The invention at the most, therefore, is merely for a difference in degree, which this Court has from the earliest
times held is unpatentable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Petitioner

283 U.S.

The majority opinion of the court below sustained the
patent on an untrue definition of the alleged invention.
After respondent abandoned its original claim that the
invention was a new method of producing high vacuum,
it thereafter advanced in the Patent Office and in the
courts several different definitions of the invention; always seeking to escape the legal effect of a finding that
the invention was merely a difference in the degree of
vacuum.- Finally, after the District Court had decided
that the patent was invalid, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals had affirmed that decision, respondent brought
forth an entirely new definition different from anything
that it had theretofore suggested. This definition the
majority of the court below, on reargument, accepted,
and its decision is based thereoif. The new definition is
unsupported by the evidence and is contradicted by the
testimony of the patentee himself.
If the subject-matter of the patent in suit involves
patentable invention, then Dr. Arnold was the first inventor and not Dr. Langmuir, the patentee.
The patent is invalid because of prior knowledge and
use. The claims variously describe the patent as a tube
capable of operating without harmful effects of ionization
with an impressed voltage of 40 volts or more. The uncontradicted testimony is that Dr. DeForest, while employed by the Feder9 Telegraph Company in California
in 1911 and 1912, used tubes as amplifiers, employing
voltages considerably in excess of 40 volts without harmful ionization. The use of such tubes with such voltage
as amplifiers would be impossible if ionization in any
appreciable amount existed. The preparation and use of
the tubes with this vacuum was deliberate and interitional on the part of Dr. DeForest.
The present majority decision of the Court of Appeals
has reversed the dispositive findings of fact of the trial
court without expressing any reason therefor, and without

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO. 667
664

Argument for Respondent.

mention of those facts. Either prior inventorship or prior
knowledge and use-both questions of fact-was a complete defense to this suit. The rule is that where a question of fact depends upon conflicting testimony, or upon
the credibility of witnesses, the finding of the judge who
saw the witnesses will be treated as "unassailable," unless
clearly wrong.
The patent is invalid because of double patenting. Respondent caused to be issued to it, on October 31, 1916, a
patent covering an invention made by one of its engineers,
Dr. Coolidge, claiming the same invention now asserted
for the Langmuir patent, which respondent likewise caused
to be issued to itself. The Coolidge application was filed
before the Langmuir application and the Coolidge patent
issued before the Langmuir patent. The later patent is
therefore invalid.
Mr; Ralph B. Evans, with whom Messrs. Hubert Howson, Paxson Deeter, and Albert G. Davis were on the brief,
for respondent.
The definition of the invention adopted by the majority
of the court below is the definition which is found in the
specification and the claims of the patent. It is not, as
petitioner asserts, a new definition advanced for the first
time on the motion for reargument. On the contrary, it is
the definition which respondent urged at the trial and in
the argument before the trial court, and in the brief originally filed with the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In the practical prior-art devices, the conduction of
current depended upon gas ionization; the art moreover
believed that unless there was enough gas to act as a conductor no current could flow and the tube would not work,
and experience seemed to confirm this belief. In simple
language, Langmuir's invention consisted in taking out
the gaseous conductor upon which the prior art relied and
putting nothing in its place.

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

283U.S.

The invention is not merely a DeForest Audion capable
of operating at higher voltages. The essential difference
is that at any voltage the tubes of the patent are stable
and reproducible, as contrasted with the Audion which
was always erratic and nonreproducible. The invention
is not a vacuum or degree of vacuum; the vacuum is important only as one of the elements of a combination
which produces a new, useful and unexpected result.
Such a tube was new in the art and required new and
different vacuum technique to produce it. The old tubes
operated on the old principle of ionic or gaseous conduction; the new tubes operate on the new principle of pure
electron discharge.
The Audions relied upon to prove the defense of prior
use were gaseous tubes operating by gas ionization. The
fact that a tube may amplify at 40 volts or more is no
indication that it is a pure electron-discharge tube; and
the uncontradicted evidence shows that the tubes in question were gaseous tubes. DeForest had no idea of a pure
electron-discharge; his own statements show that what
he wanted was a gassy tube,-a tube exhausted to a particular optimum gas pressure in order to utilize the maximum useful effect of ionization.
The question of priority was decided by the Patent
Office tribunals in favor of Langmuir in a contest between
the respondent and the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, which has openly defended the present
case on this issue. The case for the patent has been
strengthened, not weakened, by the evidence in the present suit. Langmuir made the invention when he made
and operated a pure electron-discharge tube in August,
1912, more than two months before Arnold's alleged date
of conception. Arnold's whole idea was to take a DeForest
Audion and, by pumping a better vacuum, to extend the
range of operation to somewhat higher voltages without
modifying the essential nature of that operation. This is

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO.
664

669

Opinion of the Court.

not the invention. His conception and disclosure were inadequate in that they did not include any adequate idea
of means. The inadequacy of his conception is evidenced
by his inconsistent statements and by his inability to make
good tubes until after Langmuir's invention was disclosed
to the public.
The testimony on the defense of prior use was taken by
deposition and not before the trial judge. The issue of
priority depends, not upon questions of fact, but upon inferences to be derived from facts which are substantially
undisputed. The rule that the finding of the trial judge
on disputed issues of fact will be treated as unassailable
has no application.
The defense of double patenting has not been sustained
by any judge who has heard this case, and is utterly without merit.
Messrs. John F. Neary, Ramsay Hoguet, and Martin
Fisher,by special leave of Court, filed a brief on behalf of
The Chemical Foundation, Inc., et al., as amici curiae.
MR. JusMCE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

Certiorari was granted, 282 U. S. 836, to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, holding the Langmuir Patent, No. 1,558,436, granted October
20, 1925, for "electrical discharge apparatus and process of
preparing and using the same," valid, and infringed by
petitioners. The District Court for Delaware, in which
respondent, the assignee of the patent, brought suit for
infringement, held the patent invalid for want of invention, and because of prior use and prior invention, and
gave judgment dismissing the complaint, 23 F. (2d) 698,
which the Appellate Court at first affirmed, and then, on
reargument, reversed. 44 F. (2d) 931.
Infringement is conceded if the claims of the patent are
valid. It is known as a high vacuum tube patent, and

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

the alleged invention is exemplified in high vacuum tubes
of familiar use as detectors or amplifiers in the art of
radio communication and telephony. Correct appreciation of the contentions made requires, at the outset, an
understanding and some exposition of the scientific principles which it is agreed are brought into play in the high
vacuum tube, or which at least are accepted as working
hypotheses accounting for its operation.
A radio tube of the audion or three electrode type con-'
sists of a bulb, within which a vacuum has been created,
enclosing a filament, which is a negative electrode, or
cathode; a plate, which is a positive electrode, or anode;
and a third electrode, known as a grid, located between
the filament and the plate. The grid is connected with
an input circuit, over which electrical radio activity, actuated at the sending station, is gathered from the ether
and passes to the grid. When the tube is used as an amplifier, the plate is connected in circuit with a telephone
receiver or loud speaker. In operation, the filament is
heated to incandescence by passing an electric current
through it. In its incandescent state, electrons, or negative charges of electricity, are developed at the filament
and pass to the plate, attracted to it by its positive potential, and cause a flow of electricity through the plateloud-speaker circuit. The sounds given out by the loud
speaker are produced by variations in the current passing
to it. Radio amplification depends on producing in the
more powerful current of the loud speaker circuit, variations exactly corresponding to the variations in the weaker
input or voice current which are actuated by the sending
station.
In the vacuum tube of the three electrode type, this is
accomplished by passing the input or voice current over
the grid. Variations in that current produce variations in
potential of the grid which, by reason of its location between the filament and plate, effects like variations in the

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO. 671
664

Opinion of the Court.

effective potential of the plate with corresponding variations in the loud speaker circuit. The number of electrons emitted by the filament is determined by its temperature. But the current passing through the plate loud
speaker circuit depends on the number of electrons drawn
from the filament to the plate, and this in turn depends
on the voltage of the current passing to the filament.
When it is high enough to force all the electrons emitted
by the filament to pass from filament to plate, increase in
the voltage at the filament will not produce an increase in
current in the loud speaker circuit and the tube is then
said to be "saturated." As successful operation of the
tube depends on the response of the loud speaker current
to changes in voltage effected by the voice or input current, the tube is most efficiently operated- at a voltage of a
range below saturation, and a current within this range
is known as the "space current."
Of critical importance in the present controversy is
the effect of the presence of gas within the tube. As in
the practical art of bulb manufacture no scientifically
perfect vacuum can be attained, air or other gas is always present within the vacuum tube. This consists of a
small amount of residual gas, after the vacuum is created
by pumping out the tube in the process of manufacture.
There is also gas in the walls of the bulb and the electrodes, described as "occluded," which, if not expelled
from them and removed in the course of manufacture, is
later freed in varying amounts when the tube is in use,
by the action of the heat of the filament and the electrons
generated there.
The passage of electrons from filament to plate at certain voltages produces changes in the gas, known as
"ionization." Ionization is the manifestation of a rearrangement of the constituent electrons of the gas atoms
which occurs, in low vacuum tubes, if other factors of
causation remain constant, at known voltages within a

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U. S.

range of from 20 to 30, but varying somewhat with different gases. The atom, according to present day scientific theory, is composed of an electrically positive nucleus, around which revolve at high speeds electrically
negative electrons. In its normal state, the atom, whose
nucleus and electrons are in electrical balance, exhibits
no electrical effects; but within a thermionic tube, the
impact upon the gas atoms of the electrons, passing from
cathode to anode at velocities induced by ionization voltages, forces off negative electrons from the atoms. The
atoms from which the electrons have thus been detached
are then electrically positive and are known as ions.
Ionization, which begins at the ionization voltage, is increased with increasing voltages as the tube approaches
saturation, when extreme ionization takes place; and, for
reasons which need not be elaborated here, the tube then
ceases to function as a radio tube, a condition visibly
manifested by a blue glow within it.
Gas ionization in the vacuum tube is of great practical
importance because of its effect on the current passing
from filament to plate. Ionization, when it occurs, may
operate within the range of the space current to increase
"conductivity" of the tube, that is, the discharge from
filament to plate, above what it would be at the same
voltage in the absence of ionization, through the development of the positive ions, which pass to the cathode,
and of the negative electrons, which pass to the anode.
The ions facilitate the flow of electrons from cathode to
anode and increase their number by impact on the
former, which raises its temperature. The result is that,
in low vacuum tubes, saturation with the blue glow
effect is reached, other factors remaining constant, at
lower voltages than in high vacuum tubes. Hence, in
the range of voltage above ionization and below saturation, within which the tube is commonly operated, a low
vacuum tube, because of the increase of current due to

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO.
664

673

Opinion of the Court.

ionization, is more responsive to slight changes in voltage
produced by the operation of the grid or input current.
In consequence, the low vacuum tube is more sensitive
both as a detector and as an amplifier than a tube of
high vacuum.
But this advantage is accompanied by a serious disadvantage, especially when the tube is used for amplification, in that ionization produces variations in the electronic discharge from filament to plate, which correspondingly affect the current passing through the loud speaker
circuit. Ionization is affected by the amount of gas in
the tube, and hence by the degree of vacuum and the
amount of occluded gas freed in operation by heat and
bombardment. Since the discharge varies with the
amount of ionization, the effective current in the loud
speaker circuit varies with different tubes and with the
same tube at different times; and critical adjustments of
the current flowing to the filament are necessary to improve operation.
From what has been said, it is apparent that the problem of securing evenness or regularity of discharge from
filament to plate and hence of current flowing through
the loud speaker circuit is dependent upon the reduction of ionization in the tube, and this in turn is dependent, within certain ranges of limits, upon a number of
variables, the more important of which are (1) the geometry of the tube, that is, its size and shape and the location of electrodes, (2) heat of the filament, (3) voltage of
the filament, and (4) of vital importance here, amount of
gas, that is, pressure within the tube. With the other
variables controlled so as to remain approximately constant, as is practicable, reduction of pressure reduces
ionization and increases steadiness of current and in turn
raises the saturation point of the tube, permitting its use
with higher than ionization voltages.
As in the low vacuum tube regularity or evenness of
the loud speaker current was more or less imperfectly seS0705°-31-----3

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

cured by varying the voltage at the filament with different tubes and at different times with the same tube, the
desired result may also be attained, and far more effectively, by reducing the pressure in the tube and keeping
other factors constant. When a vacuum is produced of
as low a pressure as a few hundredths of a micron (a
micron is equal to 1/1000 of a millimeter of mercury in
terms of barometric pressure), the discharge is independent of the degree of vacuum, when the tube is used with
appropriate space charge. The discharge then passing
from cathode at constant temperature to anode, varies
directly with the 3/2 power (square root of the cube) of
the voltage imposed on the cathode. This is equivalent
to saying that steadiness of current through the loud
speaker circuit is obtained, with an increase in power,
until saturation, in known relationship to the increase of
the imposed voltage. While the effectiveness of the low
vacuum tube begins to diminish, in the upper range of
ionization voltages, with high vacuum tubes, currents of
much higher voltages may be used without loss of
effectiveness.
The desired reduction of pressure in the tube involves
the use of methods for producing a high vacuum and reducing to a minimum the effects of occluded gas. By
evacuating the tube by pump or other suitable means,
and at the same time freeing it of occluded gas by heating
tube and electrodes, and also, as may be done, by passing
a current through the filament, causing "bombardment"
of the electrodes by electrons, a high vacuum tube is produced. By such procedure, the disturbing influence of
ionization may be removed, with consequent stability of
discharge. The result is of great importance, since by
adaptation of the procedure to manufacturing methods,
tubes giving uniform stability of current may be commercially produced, suitable for use in the complex mod-

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO.
664

675

Opinion of the Court.

em radio receiving sets employing multiple tubes, without necessity for the critical adjustments of the filament
circuit necessary with low vacuum tubes.
It is the high -vacuum tube of this type which respondent says embodies the Langmuir invention. As a product or structure it differs from the low vacuum tube, of
which the Fleming valve and De Forest audion are well
known types, only in that the pressure has been reduced
to such a point that there is no appreciable ionization,
with the resulting constancy of current in the amplifier
circuit.
In the light of the explanation given of the operation
of the vacuum tube, we now examine the claims of the
patent. The application, filed October 16, 1913, was
pending for twelve years before it was issued October 20,
1925, a period which witnessed the most important beginnings and many of the chief developments of the radio art.
The original application was for a process or method
patent only. It contained five claims covering methods
of obtaining a high vacuum in vacuum tubes and expelling occluded gas from them. These claims were all ultimately canceled. Other process claims, substituted by
amendment, of which four only survived in the patent as
issued, were amplifications of the original method and
process claims. Late in 1913 Langmuir first made claim
to invention of the tube as a structure or device, in four
claims, all of which were amended one or more times.
All but the third, which was amended four times, were
canceled in 1925, the year the patent issued. There are
twenty-eight claims for the structure or device in the
patent as issued. Of these one was filed by amendment
in 1913, one in 1917, nine in 1919, three in 1921, and
fourteen in 1925. During the twelve years the patent
was pending, there were sixty-seven amendments of specifications, of which forty-five were in 1925. Amended

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

claims filed, and additions and cancellations of them made,
number one hundred in all, of which forty-two were in
1925.
The process claims cover methods of oreating the high
vacuum tube in the manner already described, that is,
freeing the tube of occluded gas by heating tubes and
electrodes and by electronic bombardment, at the same
time evacuating the tube of air or gas by approved methods, such as the use of the Gaede molecular pump or
chemical means. The court below did not rest its holding of validity of the patent on these claims, and respondent does not seriously urge their validity here. It suffices to say that an examination of the prior art discloses
that, long before the earliest date claimed for Langmuir,
the necessity for removing occluded gas from tubes or
other electrical discharge devices in order to procure a
high vacuum, and the methods of doing it by heating
and electronic bombardment, were well known, as was the
procedure for constructing the high vacuum tube by expelling occluded gas while evacuating the tube. An
article by Duncan, American Electrician, May, 1896; one
by Doane, Electrical World and Engineer, of May 21,
1904; the Dwyer Patent, No. 496,694, January 4, 1898,
for a process for producing high vacuum in incandescent
lamps or similar receptacles during, their manufacture;
the Soddy Patent, No. 859,021, July 2, 1907, for the employment of certain reagents in the process of producing
high vacuum; the Thatcher Patent, No. 1,028,636, June
4, 1912, application filed March 30, 1910, for method of
exhausting vessels; and an article by Lilienfeld in 1910,
to be mentioned later, disclosed before Langmuir the
essentials for producing a high vacuum, described in the
present process claims. They were in use in laboratory
practice by Millikan and others before 1911.
It was upon the claims for the high vacuum tube structure or device that the court below based its decision,

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO. 677
664

Opinion of the Court.

and they are urged upon us here as the grounds for sustaining the patent. They put forward, in a great variety
of forms, claims for an electrical discharge device consisting of a tube with cathode and anode within it, with relation of parts and degree of evacuation (vacuum) such
that the device is capable of operation with higher than
ionization voltages in a range below saturation, substantially unaffected by ionization. Claim 2, which respondent selects as typical, reads:
"2. A discharge tube having a cathode adapted to emit
electrons and an anode adapted to receive said emitted
electrons, the tube walls being fashioned or shaped to
permit the direct passage of a useful proportion of said
electrons from cathode to anode, the gas content or residue of said tube and the relation of the parts of the tube
being such that the tube is capable of being so operated
in a range below saturation and materially above ionization voltages that the space current is governed or limited
by the electric field of said electrons substantially unaffected by positive ionization."
But this claim, as well as all others of the Langmuir
patent, must be read in the light of the fact, fully accepted
by the parties to this litigation, that electrical discharge
devices such as the Fleming valve and the De Forest
audion, patents on the latter of which expired in 1925,
which were well known before Langmuir, comprise all the
elements of the combination claimed except the presence
within it of a high vacuum. It is conceded that if the
requisite high vacuum be created in a De Forest audion,
it becomes the high vacuum tube of the patent and is an
infringing device if the patent is valid. The degree of
the vacuum within the tube is therefore the crucial feature of the invention claimed. Langmuir, in describing
in his patent the method of producing the device, says:
"The evacuation of the device should be preferably carried to a pressure as low as a few hundredths of a micron,

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

or even lower, but no definite limits can be assigned." In
at least 13 of the claims, the device claimed is one in
which the gas within the tube, or the pressure, is sufficiently reduced, or the vacuum raised high enough, (all of
which are synonymous), to produce the desired result,
that is, a discharge unaffected by ionization when the tube
is operated by the appropriate space current, which may
be of higher voltage than that for the low vacuum tube.
The characteristics of the discharge named by the inventor in the specifications "in order to distinguish electron discharge devices made in accordance with my invention from the prior art" are the following: (1) gas
ionization absent or negligible; (2) cathode not heated
by the discharge; (3) no blue glow or visible evidence of
discharge; (4) 3/2 power relation of current to voltage;
(5) discharge independent of degree of vacuum within
intended limit for particular tube; (6) regularity and reproducibility. But all these characteristics may be
summed up in the simple statement that in the tube of
the patent, there must be an absence of harmful ionization; and since, as already indicated, harmful ionization
disappears when the requisite vacuum is attained, the device or structure of the patent is one in which such a
vacuum has been produced.
That the high vacuum tube was an improvement over
the low vacuum tube of great importance, is not open
to doubt. Even though the improvement was accomplished by so simple a change in structure as could be
brought about by reducing the pressure in the well known
low vacuum tube by a few microns, still it may be invention. Whether it is or not depends upon a question of
fact, whether the relationship of the degree of vacuum
within the tube, to ionization, and hence to the stability
and effectiveness of discharge passing from cathode to
anode, was known to the art when Langmuir began his
experiments. If that relationship was then known, it re-

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO.
664

679

Opinion of the Court.

quired no inventive genius to avoid ionization and secure
the desired result by creating the vacuum in a DeForest
tube or other form of low vacuum discharge device.
That this relationship was known was the fact found
by the District Court and not challenged by the opinion
of the Court of Appeals. In 1910 Lilienfeld, in a paper
published in Annalen der Physik, Vol. 32, on "The Conduction of Electricity," made a complete and explicit disclosure of the essentials of all the structures and methods
of the Langmuir patent. The paper described methods
of obtaining the "extreme vacuum" desired by freeing
electrical discharge devices of occluded gas in the manner
already described and at the same time evacuating the
tube. He described the space charge effect, not mentioned in Langmuir's original specification, but later recited in the claims of the patent, in the following language: "One can formulate more generally the conditions for high voltage and large current density as
follows: The production of a state in which the volume
density of the electrons carrying the current is as large as
possible compared with the density of gas molecules in
which there exists therefore a tendency for the formation
of the maximum possible space charge in the path of the
current." To one skilled in the art, this could only mean
that increased effectiveness of an electrical discharge device, to which a suitable current is applied, could be obtained by raising the vacuum in the manner which the
writer had described. He also stated that " from a definite maximum density of the gas downwards, the discharge phenomena are independent of the gas density in
the region investigated," a statement equivalent to the
fifth characteristic of the discharge in the Langmuir specification, namely, that it is independent of degree of
vacuum within the intended limit for the particular tube.
Lilienfeld also deduced from meter readings and stated,
the 3/2 power relation of current to voltage, as Langmuir

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U. S.

later stated it in his patent. From this the conclusion
is inescapable that Lilienfeld knew and stated, in terms
which could be understood by those skilled in the art, that
in a high vacuum the current produced is under control,
stable, and reproducible; and, as he employed high voltages, that high power levels of the discharge may be obtained by the employment of a high voltage in a high
vacuum tube. Space charge effect was also described by
Lilienfeld in Physikalische Zeitschrift, in 1908, in whichhe pointed out that by raising the vacuum there is an increase in the number (volume density) of the negative
electrons, and said: "The higher the vacuum, the greater
the current density, the more pronounced this new kind
of discharge becomes."
The very fact that Lilienfeld knew and described the
methods of the patent for obtaining high vacuum carries
with it as a necessary corollary that the device itself,
apart from its functioning and use, is lacking in patentable novelty. Hence, invention, if any there be, is embraced in the discovery of the principle that discharges
above ionization voltages can be produced without substantial ionization if the vacuum be sufficiently high, and
the disclosure that the device of the claims constitutes
suitable means for putting the principle into practice.
But Lilienfeld; in his paper of 1910, disclosed that he
obtained discharges free from the effects of ionization, as
Langmuir testified in interference proceedings in the Patent Office, and that he accomplished this through the attainment of high vacua by the very methods later described in the Langmuir patent.
Fleming, the inventor of the Fleming valve, in a paper
read before the Royal Society on the conversion of electric oscillations into continuous current by means of a
vacuum valve, February 9, 1905, pointed out the possibility of creating "an ideal and perfect rectifier for electric
oscillations" by enclosing within a tube a hot carbon fila-

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO. 681
664

Opinion of the Court.

ment and a cold metal anode "in a very perfect vacuum "; and he described a method of procuring the
vacuum by exhausting the bulb while freeing it of occluded air. In his Patent, No. 803,634, November 7,
1905, he describes the method of securing a high vacuum
within the bulb by freeing it of occluded gas by heating
the bulb and filaments to incandescence and at the same
time evacuating it. In an article in "The Scientific
American," supplement for January 20, 1906, on "electric
conductivity of a vacuum," he defined a high vacuum as
one reduced to "one hundred-millionth of an atmosphere," which is less than the 1/100 of a micron, the pressure in the tube of the patent; and he disclosed not only
that electrons are emitted by hot cathodes in a high vacuum, but also "that a high vacuum may be a very good
conductor, provided the negative electrode is rendered
incandescent." Thus Fleming knew, and stated, the advantages of the high vacuum, its definition, and the
method of procuring it. The state of the art and the
progress of scientific knowledge in this field was accurately
summed up in the statement of the law examiner in the
Patent Office who passed on the Langmuir claims:
"It is apparent after a .review of the record that there
is no single element which is broadly novel in the assemblage of elements making up an electron discharge device of the character defined in the issue. An evacuated
tube having therein an incandescent electron emitting
cathode and an anode was old prior to the filing of Langmuir's application, and methods of attaining high vacua,
sufficient to give a relatively pure electron discharge in a
properly designed tube were also well known and available to persons skilled in the art."
The narrow question is thus presented whether, with
the knowledge disclosed in these publications, invention
was involved in the production of the tube, that is to say,
whether the production of the tube of the patent, with the

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

aid of the available scientific knowledge that the effect of
ionization could be removed by increasing the vacuum in
an electric discharge device, involved the inventive faculty
or was but the expected skill of the art. The question is
not, as respondent argues, whether Lilienfeld or others
made a practical high vacuum tube, but whether they
showed how it could be made and demonstrated and disclosed the relationship of the discharge to reduced pressure,
and how to reduce it. See Corona Co. v. Dovan Corp.,
276 U. S. 358, 384. That the production of the high
vacuum tube was no more than the application of the
skill of the art to the problem in hand is apparent when
it is realized that the invention involved only the application of this knowledge to the common forms of low
vacuum discharge devices such as the Fleming and De
Forest tubes. Once known that gas ionization in the
tube caused irregularity of current which did not occur in
a high vacuum, it did not need the genius of the inventor
to recognize and act upon the truth that a better tube
for amplifying could be made by taking out the gas.
Arnold, who was skilled in the art, and who had made
studies of electrical discharges in high vacua, when shown
a DeForest audion for the first time on November 14, 1912,
immediately recognized and said that by increasing the
vacuum the discharge would be sufficiently stable and
have adequate power levels to enable the tube to be employed as a relay device in transcontinental telephony.
The very fact that all of significance in the Langmuir
improvement was obvious to one skilled in the art as soon
as he saw the unimproved tube, as the District Court
said, "lies athwart a finding of invention."
Respondent recognizes the force of this objection to
patentability, but seeks to avoid it by insisting that the
invention claimed is not as we have described it, but that
" Langmuir's invention consisted in taking out [of the
tube] the gaseous conductor upon which the prior art

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO. 683
664

Opinion of the Court.

relied, and putting nothing [a vacuum] in its place." It
adopts also the statement in the opinion of the court below, upon which its decision turned, "a vacuum, or, indeed, change of vacuum, isolated and standing by itself,
is not the Langmuir invention, but it is a working tube
in which all the elements, cathode, plate, vacuum, so co6rdinate and interwork that the current flow is not affected
by gas," a statement which, as we have already pointed
out, takes no account of the scientific knowledge, available before Langmuir, that increase of vacuum in well
known devices was all that was necessary to produce the
desired result. Respondent elaborates, by saying that
"in the practical prior art devices [that is to say, low
vacuum tubes] the conduction of current depended upon
gas ionization; the art, moreover, believed that unless
there was enough gas to act as a conductor no current
could flow and the tube would not work." It says that
the high vacuum tube of the patent works on a different
principle, that of the "pure electron discharge" and it
was the recognition of this scientific truth and the adaptation of the device to it in which the invention consists.
But if Langmuir's invention is so to be defined, it is not
the invention claimed by the patent. Respondent puts
forth as sustaining this definition, statements in the specifications of the patent, to the effect that in the device of
the patent, in which gas ionization is absent, the discharge is "distinct in its characteristics" from the described discharge taking place in an ionized gas, and again
that it is "characterized by regularity and reproducibility
with given conditions." But, while these and many other
statements in the patent indicate that high vacuum was
an effective means of producing in the old tubes of the
art the stable current which could not be produced in the
presence of ionization, they do not suggest any discovery
of a scientific truth that essentially different principles
control the discharge in low vacuum tubes from those

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U. S.

which operate in high, other than that ionization, present
when gas is present, has certain effects, notably on stability of current in a low vacuum, which is absent in the.
high, when ionization is absent, as Lilienfeld and others
had disclosed.
If it were necessary to a decision we could not find that
any such scientific truth is established by this record.
Respondent, to support the contention, does not rely on
evidence, but on a collection of more or less casual statements by various writers, made before 1915, to the effect
that the gas or ionized gas of the low vacuum tube is a
conductor. Before the development of the electron theory, "conductivity" of substances was a convenient expression for explaining the flow of electric currents.
Fleming, in a statement in 1906, already quoted, referred
to the high vacuum as a good "conductor" if a hot
cathode was used. The present tendency is to ascribe the
flow of current from a hot cathode through both high
and low vacua to the flow or discharge of electrons.
Millikan the eminent physicist testified that this theory
was generally accepted before 1912. Langmuir himself
so explained the flow of current in a gaseous tube in his
specifications. The known truth is that current flows
through both low and high vacua and is unfavorably
affected by ionization in the former; but that the flow is
due to conductivity of the ionized gas in one and to something different, pure electron discharge, in the other, is
not established by the evidence before us. There is some
testimony to the contrary. Nor is our attention directed
to anything which suggests that Langmuir thought there
was such a difference, or relied upon it to remove ionization effects, rather than upon the simple expedient of removing the gas known to be responsible for them.
Even if the asserted difference were established, it is no
more than the scientific explanation of what Lilienfeld
and others knew, before Langmuir, of the effect of the
high vacuum on the discharge, and the methods and devices for procuring the vacuum. It is method and de-

DEFOREST RADIO CO. v. GEN. ELEC. CO. 685
664

Opinion of the Court.

vice which may be patented and not the scientific explanation of their operation. See LeRoy v. Tatham, 14
How. 156, 174-6.
Only when invention is in doubt may advance made in
the art be thrown in the scale to support it. If we were
to assume that invention here was doubtful, we can find
little to suggest that the high vacuum tube when produced
satisfied a long felt want or that its present utility is
indicative of anything more than the natural development..
of an art which has passed from infancy to its present
maturity since Langmuir filed his,application. There was
little or no practical use for a high vacuum tube in 1913.
The De Forest audion was not in general use and Langmuir did not see one until that year. The many amendments of Langmuir's application during its long pendency,
disclosing his uncertainty as to what he had invented,
and the exhibits in this case, constitute a history of the
development of the art, which indicate unmistakably that
the resort to the high vacuum tube for discharges above
ionization voltages was but the adaptation to the natural
development of the art, by those skilled in it, of the scientific knowledge which had been accumulated by investigation and experimentation. When the need became apparent, De Forest and Arnold, as well as Langmuir, found
ready at hand the knowledge which would enable one
skilled in the art to satisfy it.
The court below, contenting itself with finding invention, said nothing of the finding of prior use by the District Court. We hold that this finding of the District
Court was supported by the evidence and should have
been given effect. As we have concluded that the Langmuir patent did not involve invention, we refer only
briefly to the facts which establish prior use. In 1911
and until September of 1912, De Forest was in the employ of the Federal Telegraph Co. of California, then engaged in the commercial transmission and reception of
radio messages, in which audion detectors as well as

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U. S.

audion amplifiers were used. * August 20, 1912, the
earliest date claimed for Langmuir, was rejected, rightly,
we think, by the District Court, which held that Langmuir
was anticipated by Arnold in November, 1912. But
before the earlier date De Forest sought and obtained a
high vacuum in the audions used as amplifiers, and observed that when the vacuum was too low the blue glow
effect occurred at from 15 to 20 volts. In order to secure
higher voltages from the audions used as amplifiers and
to procure the requisite high vacuum, he had some of the
bulbs re-exhausted while super-heated. By August, 1912,
the Telegraph Company used De Forest amplifying
audions at 54 volts and, by November, they were used by
another at 67'A volts. This was possible only because
the tubes had thus been exhausted of gas, which would
otherwise have ionized with blue glow at from 20 to 30
volts. The vacuum was lower than that obtained by later
and improved methods; but the effect of high vacuum
upon voltages above the point of ionization was then
known, and the knowledge was thus availed of in practice.
Whether De Forest knew the scientific explanation of it is
unimportant, since he did know and use the device and
employ the methods, which produced the desired results,
and which are the device and methods of the patent.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY CO v. DELMAR CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 563. Argued April 30, May 1, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.
An interstate rail tariff offering a through rate between points which
are connected by two routes of the carrier, one more circuitous
than the other, should be construed as applicable only to the shorter
* The opinion is here printed as amended by an order of Oct. 19,
1931, which will appear in Vol. 284.

