OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE

RY. CO. v. MOQUIN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 543. Argued April 29, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.
In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act in a state
court, where a verdict is found to be excessive in amount because
of passion and prejudice excited by improper argument of the
plaintiff's counsel, it is the duty of that court to grant a new trial;
the error cannot be cured by remitting part of the verdict. P. 521.
181 Minn. 56; 231 N. W. 920, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 833, to review a judgment sustaining a recovery under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act upon condition that part of it be remitted.

Mr. Henry S. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. John E.
Palmer and James L. Hetland were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Tom Davis, with whom Mr. Ernest A. Michel was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent sued petitioner in the district court of Crow
Wing County, Minnesota, to recover damages for injuries
sustained in the course of his employment in interstate
commerce. The trial resulted in a verdict for the respondent, which petitioner moved to set aside on the ground
that misconduct of respondent's counsel in making appeals to passion and prejudice had prevented an impartial
trial. The motion was denied, and petitioner appealed to
the Supreme Court of Minnesota. That court referred
to the state practice, which requires counsel to interrupt
and have the language used by offending counsel placed
upon the record, to ask the court to instruct the jury to

MINNEAPOLIS ETC. RY. v. MOQUIN.

521

Opinion of the Court.

520

disregard it, and to take an exception, if thought advisable. It, however, criticized the conduct of respondent's
counsel, and said: "In the absence of objection from
counsel, it may become the duty of the court to act on its
own motion.

.

.

. From the entire record before us we

are of the opinion that the verdict is excessive because of
passion and prejudice."
A new trial was ordered, unless the respondent should
file in the trial .court a writing remitting a portion of
the verdict. 231 N. W. 829, 832. Such a remittitur was
filed, and thereupon the trial court entered judgment for
the remainder. The petitioner again appealed, and the
Supreme Court affirmed, merely referring to its previous
opinion. 231 N. W. 920. We granted a writ of certiorari
limited to the question arising from the failure of the
state court to grant a new trial in a case under the Federal Employers' Liability Act where the verdict was obtained by appeals to passion and prejudice. 1
It is unnecessary to cite from the record what occurred
at the trial, or to discuss the propriety of the views of
the court below as to the basis of the verdict. The finding is quoted above, and our sole concern is as to the
action it requires. Nor need we inquire into the rules
applicable in trials under state law. Whether under the
state's jurisprudence the present record would entitle
petitioner to a new trial or to such a conditional order
as was awarded is immaterial.
In actions under the federal statute no verdict can be
permitted to stand which is found to be in any degree
the result of appeals to passion and prejudice. Obviously
such means may be quite as effective to beget a wholly
wrong verdict as to produce an excessive one. A litigant
gaining a verdict thereby will not be permitted the benefit
of calculation, which can be little better than speculation,
1282 U. S. 833.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Respondent.

283 U.S.

as to the extent of the wrong inflicted upon his opponent.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
BALDWIN v. IOWA STATE TRAVELING MEN'S
ASSOCIATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 445.

Argued April 22, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. The full faith and credit clause, Constitution, Art. IV, ยง 1, does not
apply to the federal courts. P. 524.
2. No right to litigate the same question twice is guaranteed by the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.
3. When a defendant in a federal court appears specially only for the
sole purpose of quashing service for want of jurisdiction over his
person, and is fully heard upon the question, and, upon the overruling of the objection, takes no further part in the case and seeks
no review, a judgment subsequently entered against him on the
merits is res judicata on the question of jurisdiction and is not subject to be collaterally attacked on that same ground when sued on
in another State. P. 524 et seq.
40 F. (2d) 357, reversed.

CERTIORARI,

282 U. S. 827, to review a judgment affirm-

ing the dismissal of an action on a judgment.
Mr. Denton Dunn, with whom Messrs. C. W. Prince,
James N. Beery, and F. W. Lehmann, Jr., were on the

brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. M. Parsons, with whom Mr. Earl C. Mills was
on the brief, for respondent.
A special appearance to quash service will not warrant
judgment against the defendant if, in fact, the objections
to jurisdiction are good. Big Vein Coal Co. v. Read, 229
U. S. 31; Hitchman Coal & C. Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S.

