FED. TRADE COMM. v. RALADAM CO.

643

Statement of the Case.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. RALADAM CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 484.

Argued April 24, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.

1. The Federal Trade Commission ordered the respondent to cease
from representing his "obesity cure" as a scientific method of
treating obesity, or as being the result of scientific research, or the
formula as a scientific one; and from representing the preparation
as a remedy for obesity, unless accompanied by the statement that
it could not be taken safely except under medical direction. There
were findings, supported by evidence, warranting the conclusion
that the preparation could not be used generally without danger
to health, except under medical advice. Held beyond the jurisdiction of the Comnmission. P. 646.
2. A method, to come within the jurisdiction of the Commission, must
not only be unfair and such that a proceeding for its prevention
appears to be in the public interest, but it must also be a method of
competition in commerce. The Commission has no jurisdiction
where no substantial competition, present or potential, is shown by
proof or appears by necessary inference, to have been injured, or
to be clearly threatened with injury to a substantial extent, by the
use of the unfair methods complained of. Pp. 646, 648.
3. While it is at least generally true that statements made by members of Congress in debate cannot be used as aids to the construction of a statute, yet the fact that throughout the consideration of
legislation there was common agreement in the debate as to its
purpose may properly be taken into consideration in determining
what that purpose was and what were the evils sought to be
remedied. P. 650.
4. If as a result of an inquiry by the Federal Trade Commission it
turns out that the preliminary assumption of competition, upon
which the order was based, was without foundation, jurisdiction to
make a desist order fails, and the proceeding must be dismissed
by the Commission. P. 654.
42 F. (2d) 430, affirmed.
. CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 829, to review a decree reversing

an order of the Federal Trade Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brianfor petitioner.
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Claude R. Branch
and CharlesH. Weston, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, Hammond E. Chaffetz, Robert E. Healy, Chief
Counsel, Federal Trade Commission, and MartinA. Morrison, Assistant Chief Counsel, were also on the brief.
Mr. Lewis W. McCandless, with whom Messrs. Thomas
G. Long and Rockwell T. Gust were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Under ยง 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, c. 311,
38 Stat. 717, 719 (U. S. C., Title 15, ยง 45), the relevant
parts of which are copied in the margin,* the Commission
issued its complaint charging the respondent with using
unfair methods of competition in interstate commerce.
Respondent manufactures a preparation for internal
use, denominated an "obesity cure." The complaint
charges that this preparation is sold by respondent in and
throughout the several States, generally to wholesalers
who resell to retailer dealers, and these, in turn, to consumers; that it is offered for sale and sold in competition
with other persons who are engaged "in offering for sale,
* That unfair methods of competition in commerce are hereby de-

clared unlawful.
The commission is hereby empowered and directed to prevent persons, partnerships, or corporations, except banks, and common car-

riers subject to the Acts to regulate commerce, from using unfair
methods of competition in commerce.
Whenever the commission shall have reason to believe that any
such person, partnership, or corporation has been or is using any
unfair method of competition in commerce, and if it shall appear to
the commission that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be to
the interest of the public, it shall issue and serve upon such person,
partnership, or corporation a complaint stating its charges in that
respect, and containing a notice of a hearing upon a day and at a

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RALADAM CO.
643

645

Opinion of the Court.

and selling, printed professional advice, books of information and instruction, and other methods and means and
certain remedies and appliances for dissolving or otherwise removing excess flesh of the human body "; that respondent advertises in newspapers, etc., circulated generally in the United States, and in printed labels, etc.,
that the preparation is the result of scientific research,
knowledge and accuracy, that it is safe and effective and
may be used without discomfort, inconvenience or danger
of harmful results to health. Among the ingredients is
"desiccated thyroid," which, it is alleged, cannot be prescribed to act with reasonable uniformity on the bodies
of all users, or without impairing the health of a substantial portion of them, etc., or with safety, without previous consultation with, and continuing observation and
advice of, a competent medical adviser. The complaint
further avers that many persons are seeking obesity remedies, and respondent's advertisements are calculated to
mislead and deceive the purchasing public into the belief
that the preparation is safe, effective, dependable, and
without danger of harmful results. By way of conclusion, it is said that "the acts and practices of the respondent are all to the prejudice of the public and of
competitors of respondent,
and constitute unfair
methods of competition."
place therein fixed at least thirty days after the service of said complaint. The person, partnership, or corporation so complained of
shall have the right to appear at the place and time so fixed and show
cause why an order should not be entered by the commission requiring such person, partnership, or corporation to cease and desist from
the violation of the law so charged in said complaint. . . . If upon
such hearing the commission shall be of the opinion that the method of
competition in question is prohibited by this Act, it shall make a
report in writing in which it shall state its findings as to the facts, and
shall issue and cause to be served on such person, partnership, or
corporation an order requiring such person, partnership, or corporation
to cease and desist from using such method of competition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

-Respondent answered and hearings were had before
an examiner. The Commission found against respondent and issued a cease and desist order. The findings
in general follow the language of the complaint. There
was no finding of prejudice or injury to any competitor,
but the conclusion was drawn from the findings of fact
that the practice of respondent was to the prejudice of the
public and respondent's competitors, and constituted an
unfair method of competition.
The court of appeals reviewed the action of the Commission upon respondent's petition, and reversed the
order. 42 F. (2d) 430. We brought the case here by
certiorari, limiting the briefs and argument to the question
of the jurisdiction of the Commission.
In substance the Commission ordered the respondent to
cease and desist from representing that its preparation is
a scientific method for treating obesity, is the result of
scientific research, or that the formula is a scientific
formula; and, from representing its preparation as a
remedy for obesity, unless accompanied by the statement
that it cannot be taken safely except under medical advice
and direction. Findings, supported by evidence, warrant
the conclusion that the preparation is one which cannot
be used generally with safety to physical health except
under medical direction and advice. If the necessity of
protecting the public against dangerously misleading advertisements of a remedy sold in interstate commerce
were all that is necessary to give the Commission jurisdiction, the order could not successfully be assailed. But
this is not all.
By the plain words of the act, the power of the Commission to take steps looking to the issue of an order to
desist depends upon the existence of three distinct prerequisites: (1) that the methods complained of are unfair; (2) that they are methods of competition in commerce; and (3) that a proceeding by the Commission to

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RALADAM CO.
643

647

Opinion of the Court.

prevent the use of the methods appears to be in the
interest of the public. We assume the existence of the
first and third of these requisites; and pass at once to the
consideration of the second.
Section 5 of the Trade Commission Act is supplementary to the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and the Clayton Act.
Federal Trade Comm. v. Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S. 441,
453. The latter was discussed and passed at the same
session of Congress. The Sherman. Act deals with contracts, agreements and combinations which tend to the
prejudice of the public by the undue restriction of competition or the undue obstruction of the due course of trade,
United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106,
179; and which tend to "restrict the common liberty to
engage therein." United States v. Patten, 226 U. S.525,
541.
The Clayton Act, so far as it deals with the subject,
was intended to reach in their incipiency agreements embraced within the sphere of the Sherman Act. Standard
Fashion Co. v. Magrane-HoustonCo., 258 U. S. 346, 355357. The object of the Trade Commission Act was to
stop in their incipiency those methods of competition
which fall within the meaning of the word "unfair."
"The great purpose of both statutes was to advance the
public interest by securing fair opportunity for the play
of the contending forces ordinarily engendered by an honest desire for gain." Federal Trade Comm. v. Sinclair
Co., 261 U. S.463, 476. All three statutes seek to protect
the public from abuses arising in the course of competitive interstate and foreign trade. In a case arising under
the Trade Commission Act, the fundamental questions
are, whether the methods complained of are "unfair,"
and whether, as in cases under the Sherman Act, they
tend to the substantial injury of the public by restricting
competition in interstate trade and "the common liberty
to engage therein." The paramount aim of the act is the

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

protection of the public from the evils likely to result
from the destruction of competition or the restriction of
it in a substantial degree, and this presupposes the existence of some substantial competition to be affected, since
the public is not concerned in the maintenance of competition which itself is without real substance. Compare
InternationalShoe Co. v. Federal Trade Comm., 280 U. S.
291, 297-299.
The bill which was the foundation of the Act, as it
first passed the Senate, declared "unfair competition"
to be unlawful. Debate apparently convinced the sponsors of the legislation that these words, which had a well
settled meaning at common law, were too narrow. When
the bill came from conference between the two Houses,
these words had been eliminated and the words "unfair
methods of competition" substituted. Undoubtedly the
substituted phrase has a broader meaning but how much
broader has not been determined. It belongs to that
class of phrases which do not admit of precise definition, but the meaning and application of which must
be arrived at by what this court elsewhere has called
"the gradual process of judicial inclusion and exclusion."
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104. The question is one for the final determination of the courts and
not of the Commission. Federal Trade Comm. v. Gratz,
253 U. S. 421, 427; Federal Trade Comm. v. Beech-Nut
Co., supra, p. 453.
The authority of the Commission to proceed, if that
body believes that there has been or is being used any
unfair method of competition in commerce, was then
qualified in conference by the further requirement, not
in the original bill,--" and if it shall appear to the commission that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would
be to the interest of the public." By these additional
words, protection to the public interest is made of paramount importance, but, nevertheless, they are not sub-

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RALADAM CO.
643

649

Opinion of the Court.

stantive words of jurisdiction, but complementary words
of limitation upon the jurisdiction conferred by the language immediately preceding. Thus, the Commission is
called upon first to determine, as a necessary prerequisite
to the issue of a complaint, whether there is reason to
believe that a given person, partnership or corporation
has been or is using any unfair method of competition in
commerce; and that being determined in the affirmative,
the Commission still may not proceed unless it further
appear that a proceeding would be to the interest of the
public, and that such interest is specific and substantial.
Federal Trade Comm. v. Kesner, 280 U. S. 19, 28. Unfair trade methods are not per se unfair methods of
competition.
It is obvious that the word "competition" imports the
existence of present or potential competitors, and the unfair methods must be such as injuriously affect or tend
thus to affect the business of these competitors-that is to
say, the trader whose methods are assailed as unfair must
have present or potential rivals in trade whose business
will be, or is likely to be, lessened or otherwise injured.
It is that condition of affairs which the Commission is
given power to correct, and it is against that condition of
affairs, and not some other, that the Commission is authorized to protect the public. Official powers cannot be
extended beyond the terms and necessary implications of
the grant. If broader powers be desirable they must be
conferred by Congress. They cannot be merely assumed
by administrative officers; nor can they be created by the
courts in the proper exercise of their judicial functions.
The foregoing view of the powers of the Commission
under the Act finds confirmation, if that be needed, in
the committee reports and the statements of those in
charge of the legislation, as well as in the debate which
took place in the Senate, extending over weeks of time and
covering hundreds of pages in the Congressional Record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

In that debate the necessity of curbing those whose unfair
methods threatened to drive their competitors out of business was constantly emphasized. It was urged that the
best way to stop monopoly at the threshold was to prevent unfair competition; that the unfair competition
sought to be reached was that which must ultimately
result in the extinction of rivals and the establishment of
monopoly; that by the words "unfair methods" was
meant those resorted to for the purpose of destroying competition or of eliminating a competitor or of introducing
monopoly"-such as tend unfairly to destroy or injure the
business of a competitor; that the law was necessary to
protect small business against giant competitors; that it
was an effort to make competition stronger in its fight
against monopoly; that unfair competition was that practice which destroys competition and establishes monopoly.
These and similar statements run through the debate from
beginning to end. Although protection to the public
interest was recognized as the ultimate aim, comparatively
little was said about it.
It is true, at least generally, that statements made in
debate cannot be used as aids to the construction of a
statute. But the fact that throughout the consideration
of this legislation there was common agreement in the
debate as to the great purpose of the act, may properly
be considered in determining what that purpose was and
what were the evils sought to be remedied. In Ho Ah
Kow v. Nunan, 5 Sawy. 552, it appeared that the Board of
Supervisors of San Francisco had adopted an ordinance
which provided that every male person imprisoned in
the county jail, etc., should immediately upon his arrival
at the jail have the hair of his head "cut or clipped to
an uniform length of one inch from the scalp thereof."
The ordinance was attacked as being hostile and discriminating legislation against the Chinese, and in order to
demonstrate this, in spite of the general terms of the ordinance, statements of supervisors made in debate were

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RALADAM CO.
643

651

Opinion of the Court.

put in evidence. Mr. Justice Field., speaking for himself and Judge Sawyer, said (p. 560):
"The statements of supervisors in debate on the passage of the ordinance cannot, it is true, be resorted to for
the purpose of explaining the meaning of the terms used;
but they can be resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining the general object of the legislation proposed, and the
mischiefs sought to be remedied."
While it is impossible from the terms of the act itself,
and in the light of the foregoing circumstances leading
up to its passage, reasonably to conclude that Congress
intended to vest the Commission with the general power
to prevent all sorts of 'unfair trade practices in commerce
apart from their actual or potential effect upon the trade
of competitors, it is not necessary that the facts point
fo any particular trader or traders. It is enough that
there be present or potential substantial competition,
which is shown by proof, or appears by necessary inference, to have been injured, or to be clearly threatened
with injury, to a substantial extent, by the use of the
unfair methods complained of.
In Federal Trade Comm. v. Winsted Co., 258 U. S.
483, it appeared that a manufacturer engaged in selling
underwear and other knit goods made partly of wool,
labeled them as "natural merino," "natural wool,"
"Australian wool," etc. It was shown that a substantial
part of the consuming public and some buyers and retailers understood the words used in the labels to mean
that the underwear was all wool. Part of the public was
thereby misled into selling or into buying, as all wool,
underwear which was in large part cotton. The labels
were false and calculated to deceive, and did in fact deceive, a substantial portion of the purchasing public.
This court, after saying that the facts show that a proceeding to stop the practice was in the interest of the
public, added (page 493):

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

"And they show also that the practice constitutes an
unfair method of competition as against manufacturers
of all wool knit underwear and as against those manufacturers of mixed wool and cotton underwear Who brand
their product truthfully. For when misbranded goods
attract customers by means of the fraud which they perpetrate, trade is diverted from the producer of truthfully
marked goods. That these honest manufacturers might
protect their trade by also resorting to deceptive labels is
no defense to this proceeding brought against the Winsted
Company in the public interest."
And again, at page 494, after reaffirming the existence
of the public interest, the court said:
".... since the business of its trade rivals who marked
their goods truthfully was necessarily affected by that
practice, the Commission was justified in its conclusion
that the practice constituted an unfair method of competition; . . ."
The court below thought that the trade to be protected
"was that legitimate trade which was entitled to hold its
own in the trade field without embarrassment from unfair competition." There is much force in this conception of the act, and the language just quoted from the
Winsted case seems inferentially to lend it support.
Certainly, it is hard to see why Congress would set itself
to the task of devising means and creating administrative machinery for the purpose of preserving the business
of one knave from the unfair competition of another. In
the present case, however, we do not find it necessary
further to consider the merits of this view or to determine
whether the facts are such as to bring the case within it.
Findings of the Commission justify the conclusion that
the advertisements naturally would tend to increase the
business of respondent; but there is neither finding nor
evidence from which the conclusion legitimately can be
drawn that these advertisements substantially injured or
tended thus to injure the business of any competitor or

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RALADAM CO.
643

653

Opinion of the Court..

of competitors generally, whether legitimate or not. None
of the supposed competitors appeared or was calle'd
upon to show what, if any, effect the misleading advertisements had, or were likely to have, upon his business.
The only evidence as to the existence of competitors
comes'from medical sources not engaged in making or
selling "obesity cures," and consists in the main of a list
of supposed producers and sellers of "anti-fat remedies"
compiled from the files and records of the Bureau of Investigation of the American Medical Association, a list
which appears to have been gathered mainly from newspapers and advertisements. The only specific evidence
was that of a witness who said that he had purchased in
drug stores in Chicago five different anti-fat treatments
and could have purchased a sixth. How long they had
been in stock, what was their nature, whether they were
intended to be used internally, or in what way they competed or could compete with respondent's preparation,
does not appear. Of course, medical practitioners, by
some of whom the danger of using the remedy without
competent advice was exposed, are not in competition
with respondent. They follow a profession and not a
trade, and are not engaged in the business of making or
vending remedies but in prescribing them. It is impossible to say whether, as a result of respondent's advertisements, any business was diverted, or was likely to be
diverted, from others engaged in like trade, or whether
competitors, identified or unidentified, were injured in
their business, or were likely to be injured, or, indeed,
whether any other anti-obesity remedies were sold or
offered for sale in competition, or were of such a character
as naturally to come into any real competition, with respondent's preparation in the interstate market. All this
was left without proof and remains, at best, a matter of
conjecture. Something more substantial than that is
required as a basis for the exercise of the authority of the
Commission.

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283U.S.

Whether the respondent, in what it was doing, was subjecting itself to administrative or other proceeding under
the statute relating to the misbranding of foods and drugs
we need not now inquire for the administration of that
statute is not committed to the Federal Trade Commission.
A proceeding under ยง 5 is not one instituted before
the Commission by one party against another. It is instituted by the Commission itself, and is authorized whenever the Commission has reason to believe that unfair
methods of competition in commerce are being used, and
that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be to the
interest of the public. Acting upon its belief, the Commission issues charges and enters upon an inquiry which,
of course, it has jurisdiction to make. But one of the
facts necessary to support jurisdiction to make the final
order to cease and desist, is the existence of competition;
and the Commission cannot, by assuming the existence
of competition, if in fact there be none, give itself jurisdiction to make such an order. If, as a result of the
inquiry, it turn out that the preliminary assumption of
competition is without foundation, jurisdiction to make
that order necessarily fails, and the proceeding must be
dismissed by the Commission. Compare Federal Trade
Comm. v. Klesner, supra, pp. 29-30. That course should
have been followed here.
The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.
LEWIS-SIMAS-JONES CO. v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC
CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST
APPELLATE DISTRICT, OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 520. Argued April 28, 29, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.
1. The Interstate Commerce Act applies to so much only of the transportation of a through shipment from a foreign country as takes
place in this country. P. 660.

