CHOTEAU v. BURNET.
686

Statement of the Case.

routes at the through rate.

This conclusion is in accord

with the principle that where two constructions of a
written contract are possible, preference will be given to
that which does not result in violation of law. Compare

Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 646, 685; Hobbs v. McLean,
117 U. S. 567, 576; In re Rose Co., 275 Fed. 409; Northern

Pac. Ry Co. v. St. Paul & Tacoma Lumber Co., 4 F. (2d)
359.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
CHOTEAU v. BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 81. Argued January 28, 29, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.
1. The income received from the United States by an Indian, a
member of the Osage Tribe, as his share of the royalties from oil
and gas leases made by the tribe and approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, under the Act of June 28, 1906, is subject to
federal income tax, under the Revenue Act of 1918.
So held, where the Indian had received a certificate of competency; where his allotted lands, except the homestead, were
taxable and alienable; and where the income, (derived from leases
of lands which had been purchased for the tribe with tribal funds
and subsequently allotted, reserving the oil and gas to the tribe,)
belonged to him without restriction. Pp. 693, 694.
2. Such income is not a gift; nor is it immune from the federal tax
as an instrumentality of government. P. 696.
38 F. (2d) 976, affirmed.
CERTIOmRI,

281 U. S. 714, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 14 B. T. A.
1254, which sustained a determination of deficiency in
income taxes.

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Mr. T. J. Leahy, with whom Messrs. C. S. Macdonald,
James H. Maxey, F. W. Files, and Louis N. Stivers were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Claude R. Branch,
Sewall Key and A. H. Conner, Special Assistants to the
Attorney General, Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel,
Bureau of Internal Revenue, and Ellis W. Manning,
Special Attorney, were on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner is a member of the Osage tribe of Indians, duly enrolled as such under the Act of June 28,
1906,' and holds a certificate of competency issued March
5, 1910, pursuant to that Act. He owns his own original
allotment of the tribal lands, and has inherited from a
deceased member a one-half interest in the latter's allotment, but nothing in this case turns on his ownership
of these lands. He also owns his own original share in
the tribal revenues, and, by inheritance from a deceased
member, one-half of the interest in those revenues to
which that member would be entitled if living.
In the years 1918, 1919 and 1920 petitioner's entire
income was received from these one and one-half shares
in the tribal income from oil and gas leases made by the
tribe under the authority of the Act. The leases were
on a portion of the lands bought by the United States
with money belonging to the tribe, thereafter held in
trust for it, and subsequently allotted to its members
as directed by the Act. But in the division or allotment
of the tribal lands the oil, gas and other minerals therein
were expressly reserved to the tribe for a period of twenty'c. 3572, 34 Stat. 539.

CHOTEAU v. BURNET.
691

Opinion of the Court.

five years,' now extended to April 8, 1958.3 Provision
was made for the leasing of such minerals by the tribal
council, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,4 and the income from such leases is to be placed
in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the
members of the tribe and distributed among them quarterly.' This was the source of the petitioner's income.
The petitioner paid income taxes in each of the years
mentioned. Upon the receipt of a deficiency letter from
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue he instituted a
proceeding before the Board of Tax Appeals in which he
claimed that he owed no deficiencies, but was entitled to
a refund of the amounts theretofore paid because he was
exempt from income tax on the sums received. The
Board's decision was for respondent,' and was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals." This court granted certiorari."
The petitioner urges several arguments in support of
the claim that he is not liable for tax under the Revenue
Act of 1918. These may conveniently be grouped into
two main contentions: First, that the statute evidences
no intent to tax petitioner on such income, and second,
that if its language is broad enough to cover his case, his
status, or the nature of the income, requires a holding
that he is exempt.
The language of §§ 210 and 211 (a)' subjects the income of "every individual" to tax. Section 213 (a)'"
'§ 3, Act of 1906, supra.
'45 Stat. 1478.

§ 3, Act of 1906, supra.
§ 4, First and Second, and § 6, Act of 1906, supra.
14 B. T. A. 1254.
'38 F. (2d) 976.
1281 U. S. 714.
40 Stat. 1062.
40 Stat. 1065.

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

includes income "from any source whatever." The intent of Congress was to levy the tax with respect to all
residents of the United States and upon all sorts of income. The act does not expressly exempt the sort of income here involved, nor a person having petitioner's
status respecting such income, and we are not referred to
any other statute which does.
But it is said that as to the income here taxed petitioner
is exempt because of his status as an Indian. This assertion requires a reference to the policy of the government
with respect to the Indians. No provision in any of the
treaties referred to by counsel has any bearing upon the
question of the liability of an individual Indian to pay tax
upon income derived by him from his own property. The
course of legislation discloses that the plan of the government has been gradually to emancipate the Indian from
his former status as a ward; to prepare him for complete
independence by education and the gradual release of his
property to his own individual management. This plan
has included imposing upon him both the responsibilities
and the privileges of the owner of property, including the
duty to pay taxes. 1 Pursuant to this policy the Act of
1906 directed the allotment to each member of the Osage
tribe of a homestead of 160 acres to be chosen by him,
which was to be inalienable and nontaxable for twentyfive years or during the life of the allottee. After setting
apart such homestead to each, the surplus lands were all
to be equally divided and allotted amongst the members,
Section 2, Seventh, of the Act provides that the Secretary
of the Interior, after due investigation, may issue certificates of competency to members of the tribe. It declares
that "upon the issuance of such certificate of competency
USee United States v. Nice, 241 U. S. 591, 598; United States v.
Waller, 243 U. S. 452, 459; McCurdy v. United States, 246 U. S. 263,

269; Shaw v. Oil Corp., 276 U. S. 575, 579.

CHOTEAU v. BURNET.
691

Opinion of the Court.

the lands of such member (except his or her homestead)
shall become subject to taxation, and such member (with
exceptions not here material) shall have the right to
manage, control, and dispose of his or her lands the same
as any citizen of the United States." 22 Since 1910, when
he received his certificate, petitioner has therefore been
taxable upon his allotted lands, except his homestead, and
they have been freely alienable.
There are provisions in the Act of 1906 with respect to
the holding, payment and administration of the royalty
shares of members who do not have certificates of competency, but with these we are not concerned. The
shares of royalty of those holding such certificates are to
be paid to them quarterly.
The petitioner, then, was competent to hold and make
any use (except to grant mining leases) of all his lands.
All except his homestead were taxable, and were freely
alienable without control or supervision of the government. His share of the-royalties from-oil and gas leases
was payable to him, without restriction upon his use of
the funds so paid. It is evident that as respects his property other than his homestead his status is not different
from that of any citizen of the United States. In the
process of gradually changing the relation between the
Indian and the government he has been, with respect to
the income in question, fully emancipated. (Compare
United States v. Waller, supra.) It is true, as petitioner
'Section 4 of the Act of February 27, 1925, c. 359, 43 Stat. 1008,
authorizes the revocation of a certificate held by one of more than
one-half Indian blood, if the Secretary of the Interior shall find that
the holder is squandering or misusing his or her funds. The revocation
is not to affect the legality of any transactions theretofore made by
reason of the issuance of a certificate, and all debts existing at the
time of revocation are to be paid by the Secretary or his representative out of the income of the member. This section has no bearing
upon the present case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

asserts, that as to his homestead he still remains a
restricted Indian. But this fact is only significant as
evidencing the contrast between his qualified power of
disposition of that property and his untrammeled ownership of the income in controversy. The latter was clearly
beyond the control of the United States. The duty to
pay it into petitioner's hands, and his power to use it
after it was so paid, were absolute. Work v. Mosier, 261
U. S 352; Work v. Lynn, 266 U. S. 161. The claim that
with respect to this income the petitioner was restricted,
and therefore exempt from the tax laid by §§ 210 and
211 (a) must fail.
It remains to consider whether there is anything in the
nature of the income itself making it necessary to exempt
it from the broad language of the Revenue Act. It is
suggested by petitioner that the sums received were gifts
and not income. In view of the facts above recited this
argument is without substance. It is further insisted
that since the royalties are not taxable, so long as they
remain in the hands of the government in trust for the
tribe and undistributed to members, income derived by
the individual member from this fund comes from an
exempt source and must therefore also be held to be exempt. (See Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157
U. S. 429; 158 U. S. 601.) Royalties received by the government from mineral leases of Indian lands have been
held to be beyond a State's taxing power (Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; Shaw v. Oil Corp., 276 U. S.
575) on the ground that, while in the possession of the
United States they are a federal instrumentality, to be
used to carry out a governmental purpose. It does not
follow, however, that they cannot be subjected to a federal tax. The intent to exclude must be definitely expressed, where, as here, the general language of the Act
laying the tax is broad enough to include the subject matter. Heiner v. Colonial Trust Co., 275 U. S. 232; Shaw

NEAR v. MINNESOTA.
Syllabus.

691

v. Oil Corp., supra. But whatever may have been the
liability of the fund to federal taxation while it remained
in the hands of the government, it cannot properly be
said that the share of it paid as royalties to the petitioner
constituted in his hands an instrumentality of the government and was therefore beyond the scope of the tax.
(Compare McCurdy v. United States, 246 U. S. 263.)
There is, therefore, nothing in the nature of the income
which excepts it from the effect of § 213 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1918.
Affirmed.

NEAR v. MINNESOTA EX REL. OLSON, COUNTY
ATTORNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 91.

Argued January 30, 1931.-Decided June 1, 1931.

1. A Minnesota statute declares that one who engages "in the business of regularly and customarily producing, publishing," etc., "a
malicious, scandalous and defamatory newspaper, magazine or
other periodical," is guilty of a nuisance, and authorizes suits, in
the name of the State, in which such periodicals may be abated
and their publishers enjoined from future violations. In such a
suit, malice may be inferred from the fact of publication. The
defendant is permitted to prove, as a defense, that his publications
were true and published "with good motives and for justifiable
ends." Disobedience of an injunction is punishable as a contempt.
Held unconstitutional, as applied to publications charging neglect
of duty and corruption upon the part of law-enforcing officers of
the State. Pp. 704, 709, 712, 722.
2. Liberty of the press is within the liberty safeguarded by the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment from invasion by
state action. P. 707.
3. Liberty of the press is not an absolute right, and the State may
punish its abuse. P. 708.
4. In passing upon the constitutionality of the statute, the court has
regard for substance, and not for form; the statute must be tested
by its operation and effect. P. 708.

