CHES. & OHIO RY. v. UNITED STATES.
27

35

Counsel for Parties.

commodity they have not been granted a monopoly.
Their attempt to secure one cannot be sanctioned."
Reversed.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 73.

Argued January 26, 27, 1931.-Decided March 9, 1931.

1. Facts stated in a report of the Interstate Commerce Commission held sustained by findings and sufficient to support an order
authorizing new railroad construction, under ยง 1, (18), (20), of the
Transportation Act. P. 38.
2. The Commission, in reaching a determination that proposed extensions of lines of railroad are required by the public interest, may
properly consider the desirability of preserving competition between
rival railroad systems. P. 41.
35 F. (2d) 769, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges dismissing a bill to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Robert B. Tunstall, with whom Messers. Herbert
Fitzpatrickand Thomas L. Preston were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Nelson Thomas, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton were on the brief,
'Restrictions on the manner of use, essential to prevent unwarranted extension, are inherent in other limited monopolies. Thus, a
trademark may not be used as a means of misrepresentation. Worden v. California Fig Syrup Co., 187 U. S. 516; Mulhens & Kropff,
Inc., v. Ferd. Muelhens, Inc., 43 F. (2d) 937; Leather Cloth Co., Ltd.,
v. American Leather Cloth Co., Ltd., 4 De G. J. & S. 137, affirmed,
11 H. L. C. 523. Nor a tradename as a means of deception. Memphis Keeley Institute v. Keeley Co., 155 Fed. 964; Royal Baking
Powder Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 281 Fed. 744; Federal
Trade Commssion v. Bradley, 31 F. (2d) 569.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

for the United States and Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. John H. Holt, with whom Messrs. Robert E.
McCabe, D. Lynch Younger, and Theodore W. Reath
were on the brief, for the Guyandot & Tug River Railroad
Co. and the Norfolk & Western Railway Co.
MR. JusTicE. BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the appellant, for brevity
called the Chesapeake, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act.
28 U. S. C., ยง 47, against the United States, the Guyandot
and Tug River Railroad Company and the Norfolk and
Western Railway Company. The former is a subsidiary
of the latter and both may be called the Norfolk. The
Interstate Commerce Commission appeared as a defendant. 28 U. S. C., ยง 45a. The purpose of the suit was to
set aside and annul so much of an order and certificate of
the Commission entered and issued July 23, 1928 (145
I. C. C. 167, 188, 193) and so much of subsequent orders
in the same proceeding, as authorize the Norfolk to construct and operate a line of railroad in West Virginia from
Gilbert about 101/2 miles to Wharncliffe. The case was
tried before three judges. A condensed statement of the
evidence and exhibits before the Commission was submitted to the court. After hearing argument for the respective parties, the court entered its decree denying
plaintiff any relief and dismissing the bill. 35 F. (2d)
769.
May 7, 1925, the Chesapeake filed its application for a
certificate that the present and future public convenience
and necessity require the construction by it of an extension
of its Logan subdivision from Gilbert easterly 47.3 miles
to Mullens and an extension of its Winding Gulf line from
Stone Coal westerly 8.2 miles to Mullens. On October 29,

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. UNITED STATES.
35

Opinion of the Court.

1925, the Guyandot company filed its application for a
similar certificate for the construction of a line of railroad
extending from a connection with the Virginian Railway
at Elmore westerly 53 miles to Wharncliffe. The Norfolk
and the Virginian joined in this application. An amended
application was filed December 24, 1925, by the Guyandot
which' was joined in by the Norfolk alone. January 21,
1927, the Virginian and Western Railway, a subsidiary of
the Virginian Railway Company-both may be referred to
as the Virginian-filed its application for a like certificate
for the construction of a line extending from a connection
with the Guyandot branch of the Virginian at Ittman
down that river 40.6 miles to a connection with the Chesapeake at Gilbert. This application was joined in by the
Virginian Railway Company.
The locations of all the proposed lines between Gilbert
and Mullens, Elmore or Ittman were in the narrow valley
traversed by the Guyandot river. Authority to build the
line between Gilbert and Wharncliffe was sought only by
the Norfolk. The three applications were considered at
the same hearing. The Virginian supported the Norfolk's
application for the Gilbert-Wharncliffe connection. The
Chesapeake opposed. All the applications were disposed
of by the same report and order.
The Commission granted to the Virginian permission to
construct its line in the Guyandot valley from Ittman to
Gilbert and to the Norfolk leave to build between Gilbert
and Wharncliffe. It denied the rest of the application of
the Norfolk and that of the Chesapeake in toto.
The appellant seeks reversal upon the claim that neither
the findings of the Commission nor the evidence affords
any support for the order and that the record shows the
construction of the proposed line between Gilbert and
Wharncliffe to be contrary to the public interest and to
have been authorized under an erroneous theory of the
applicable law. It says that the only finding of the Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opininn of the Court.

2,M U.,S

mission that supports the order is that the construction of
the line will enable the Norfolk to compete with the Chesapeake for westbound traffic moving over the Virginian
from the Guyandot valley and will assure the coal operators on the Virginian competitive service to the west. And
it maintains that the Commission is not authorized by the
Act to grant a certificate of public convenience and necessity for new construction upon a naked finding that
competition between carriers and competitive service to
shippers will result.
The situation, as disclosed by the report and the undisputed evidence, is as follows:
That part of West Virginia which is south of the Kanawha and New rivers contains vast deposits of coal and
has many mines in operation. The Chesapeake, the Norfolk and the Virginian are the only railroads of importance
in the district. The eastern terminus of the Chesapeake
is at Newport News. It serves mines immediately south
of these rivers. It has lines extending to the west where
it has connections at Cincinnati, Columbus, Chicago and
elsewhere on the Great Lakes. The eastern termini of
the other carriers are at Norfolk. The lines of the Norfolk through the coal district are in the valleys of the
Tug and Big Sandy considerably to the south of the lines
of the Chesapeake and separated from them by a range
of mountains extending from near Matoaka 150 miles or
more northwesterly where it ends not far from Huntington on the Ohio. The Norfolk's main line crosses that
of the Chesapeake at Kenova on the south side of the
Ohio some distance below Huntington and extends to the
west where it has connections at Cincinnati and Columbus.
The Virginian has main and branch lines in the easterly
part of these coal fields but it has no line to the west. It
connects with the Chesapeake at Deepwater, a station on
the Kanawha, and with the Norfolk at Matoaka which
is a little over the divide south of the valley of the
Guyandot.

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

35

These railroads have long been competing carriers of
coal from that district. The tonnage controlled by the
Virginian is about one-seventh of that of the Norfolk
and that of the latter is about 60 per cent. of that of the
Chesapeake. In 1927, 47 coal mines were served by the
Virginian alone. These are called local mines. And 55
were served by it and also by the Chesapeake. These are
called joint mines. Such local and joint mines during the
first nine months of that year produced and shipped coal
via the Virginian at the rate of more than 12,000,000 tons
per annum. And in that period the Virginian handed over
to the Chesapeake at Deepwater and to the Norfolk at
Matoaka coal for transportation to the west at the rate of
more than 4,270,000 tons per annum, 80 per cent. of which
moved via Matoaka
Some years prior to the Virginian's application to build
the proposed line the Commission required it to establish
joint rates and through routes to the west via Deepwater,
the Chesapeake and its connections, and also via Matoaka,
the Norfolk and its connections.* The orders in that case
covered only rates from a few specific origins on the Virginian. But the Chesapeake and the Virginian voluntarily
established joint rates via Deepwater from all local mines
on the Virginian and from such of the joint mines as were
located between destinations and a local mine. The Chesapeake refused to establish rates from joint mines which
were not intermediate because that would operate to
short-haul itself. Similar joint rates were voluntarily established by the Virginian and Norfolk via Matoaka from
all local and joint mines served by the Virginian.
The Chesapeake and the Norfolk are active competitors
for transportation of coal originating on the Virginian and
destined to the west. The line of the Virginian between
its principal coal territory and Deepwater crosses three
* Wyoming Coal Co. v. Virginian Ry. Co., 96 I. C. C. 359.

I. C. C. 488.

98

Virginian Railway Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2&3 U.S.

summits with heavy adverse grades against the loaded
movement and heavier ones against the return movement.
The Virginian's line to Matoaka has heavier adverse
grades against the loaded movement than on its line to
Deepwater. And on that route difficult grades are encountered on the Norfolk.
The line to be built by the Virginian .down the Guyandot will have substantially no grades adverse to western
movement. The Logan, subdivision of the Chesapeake is
a well-located low grade line along the lower stretches of
that river, and it has capacity to handle efficiently all the
west-bound traffic originating on the Virginian. The
route to the west down the river to Gilbert and over the
divide to Wharncliffe is 41 miles shorter than the route
via Matoaka. The line to be built across the divide will
have an adverse grade that will require doubling. But
both of the proposed new routes will be better than either
of the existing ones. The Chesapeake estimates that the
cost per ton of handling coal over the new route via Gilbert and its Logan subdivision will be 1.69 cents per ton
less than the cost via the Gilbert-Wharncliffe route. The
Norfolk estimates that cost via the latter will be 14 cents
per ton less than via the present Matoaka route. The
Norfolk through a subsidiary controls large deposits of
coal in the valley tributary to the new line of the Virginian. And there is a consk.derable deposit of coal that
may be made tributary to the proposed Gilbert-Wharncliffe line.
There is need for a line to connect the railways on the
upper Guyandot with the Logan subdivision of the
Chesapeake in the lower valley. Its main functions will
be to provide a suitable outlet for westbound traffic,
chiefly coal, from the lines of the Virginian and the Chesapeake in the upper valley and to carry the large tonnage
of coal and lumber that may be developed tributary to
the new line. The construction of the Gilbert-Wharn-

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

35

cliffe line will enable the Norfolk to compete with the
Chesapeake for westbound traffic originating on the Virginian and will give the latter greater independence in
respect of such shipments.
The construction of the line of the Virginian from the
upper Guyandot to a connection with the Chesapeake at
Gilbert would immensely improve the position of the
latter in respect of the westbound movement of coal
originating on the Virginian. It is also plain, indeed so
obvious as scarcely to require statement, that the construction of the Gilbert-Wharncliffe connection is necessary in order to enable the Norfolk to continue, on conditions that are tolerable, to compete with the Chesapeake
for that traffic. The construction of that connection cannot reasonably be regarded as an intrusion by the Norfolk
into territory already being well-served by the Chesapeake. On the contrary the Norfolk already hauls about
foui-fifths of the Virginian's westbound coal. By this
relatively short connection, it will be able to give a better
outlet for that traffic, to make substantial saving in the
cost of handling, and to remain in position, at relatively
slight disadvantage, to compete for traffic in which it
long has had a large share. And shippers will have the
benefit of such competitive service.
But the Chesapeake insists that under the Transportation Act the Commission may not authorize new construction for the purpose of continuing such competition.
The Act cannot reasonably be so construed.
Section 1 (18) provides (Tit. 49, U. S. C.):
"No carrier by railroad

.

shall undertake the

.

.

extension of its line of railroad, or the construction of a
new line of railroad,

.

.

.

unless and until there shall

first have been obtained from the commission a certificate
that the present or future public convenience and necessity require or will require the

.

.

.

construction and

operation, of such additional or extended line of railroad.

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2S.3 17.S.

Section 1 (20) provides:
"The commission shall have power to issue such certificate as prayed for, or to refuse to issue it, or to issue
it for a portion . . . of a line of railroad, or extension
thereof, described in the application . . . and may
attach to the issuance of the certificate such terms and
conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and
necessity may require.
"
There is no specification of the considerations by which
the Commission is to be governed in determining whether
the public convenience and necessity require the proposed
construction. Under the Act it was the duty of the Commission to find the facts and, in the exercise of a reasonable judgment, to determine that question. Texas & Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry., 270 U. S. 266, 273.
Undoubtedly the purpose of these provisions is to enable the Commission, in the interest of the public, to
prevent improvident and unnecessary expenditures for
the construction and operation of lines not needed to
insure adequate service. In the absence of a plain declaration to that effect, it would be unreasonable to hold that
Congress did not intend to empower the Commission to
authorize construction of new lines to provide for shippers
such competing service as it should find to be convenient
or necessary in the public interest. Indeed 9 5 (4) of the
Act, authorizing the Commission to adopt a plan for the
consolidation of railway properties into a limited number
of systems, clearly discloses a policy on the part of Congress to preserve competition among carriers. It provides:
"In the division of such railways into such systems under
such plan, competition shall be preserved as fully as possible and wherever practicable the existing routes and
channels of trade and commerce shall be maintained."
And the Commission has recognized the advantages of
competitive service to shippers especially in respect of a

UNITED STATES v. MUNSON S. S. LINE.

43

Sy1llhus.

35

diversified car supply for the shipment of coal and lumber;
it suggests the possibility of failure of operation from

various causes, that under some circumstances competition
operates to stimulate better service and that reasonable
competition may be in the public interest. Construction
of Lines in Eastern Oregon, 111 I. C. C. 3, 37. Construction of Line by Wenatchee Southern Ry., 90 I. C. C. 237,
257.
The facts stated in the report are sustained by the evi.
dence and, under the Act, they are plainly sufficient to
support the order.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MUNSON STEAMSHIP LINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 85.

Argued March 2, 1931.-Decided March 23, 1931.

1. A carrier by water need not file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission its tariffs on interstate shipments initiated by rail if
the rail and water carriage, though practically continuous, is not
under a common control or management, or pursuant to a common
arrangement between the rail and water carriers. Interstate Commerce Act, ยง 6 (1) (a). P. 46.
2. A common arrangement is not to be inferred from circumstances
which are consistent with the independence permitted water carriers by the statute. P. 47.
3. A " common arrangement" did not exist in this case, where the
water carrier, although it advised rail carriers of the saiings of its
ships, of the place where goods would be received and of its charges
for water transportation, and although it paid the rail charges on
goods received and collected them, with its own charges, from
ultimate consignees, nevertheless maintained the independence of
its own transportation by having its separate rates, its separate
contracts for transportation, and its direct instructions from
shippers. Id.

