OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
283 U.S.

Syllabus.

VORMALS

FARBWERKE
BRUNING

ET AL.

MEISTER

LUCIUS

&

v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION,

INCORPORATED, ET AL.
FARBWERKE
BRUNING

VORMALS

MEISTER LUCIUS &

v. E. I. Lu PONT

DE

NEMOURS

&

COMPANY ET AL.
DEUTSCHE GOLD & SILBER SCHEIDE ANSTALT
v. SAME.
BADISCHE-ANILIN & SODA FABRIK v. SAME.
WOODS, TREASURER OF THE UNITED STATES, v.

CHEMICAL

FOUNDATION,

INCORPORATED,

ET AL.

SUTHERLAND, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, v.
FARBWERKE VORMALS MEISTER LUCIUS &
BRUNING ET AL.
SAME v. DEUTSCHE GOLD & SILBER SCHEIDE
ANSTALT ET AL.
SAME v. BADISCHE-ANILIN & SODA FABRIK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 179, 180, 181, 182, 271, 272, 273, and 274.
1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

Argued March 6,

1. Where use of enemy-owned patents was licensed under § 10 of
the original Trading with the Enemy Act, of October 6, 1917,;and
the Alien Property Custodian, after the amen dments of March 28
and November 4, 1918, seized the patents " and every right, title
and interest with respect thereto," subject to the rights of the
licensee, and assigned to the Chemical Foundation (see United
States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1,) all right and title
which he thus acquired, Held that the terms of the seizure should
be construed with regard for the general purpose of the legislation

FARBWERKE v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.

153

Statement of the Case.

152

to weaken the enemy, and were broad enough to include the right
left in the enemy owners by the original Act to recover for the
use of the patents under the license. P. 160.
2. Although § 10 of the Act of November 4, 1918, amending the
Trading with the Enemy Act, declares that any requirement under
it, when filed or recorded, shall "have the same force and effect
as a duly executed conveyance, transfer, or assignment to the Alien
Property Custodian" and although it be assumed that a mere transfer of a patent by voluntary conveyance does not pass the right to
recover accrued royalties from a licensee, the effect of a seizure of
patent rights by the Alien Property Custodian "with every right,
title and interest with respect thereto," is to take over such royalties
as well as the patents. P. 161.
3. Subsection 10 (f) of the original Trading with the Enemy Act provided for licensing the use of enemy-owned patents, and gave the
owner of the patent one year after the termination of the war within
which to sue the licensee for compensation. An amendment of this
subsection by the Settlement of War Claims Act, March 10, 1928,
provides that, in case of any patent seized and sold by the Alien
Property Custodian, any suit, within the time limited, for royalties
for the period prior to the sale, shall be considered as brought by
the ' owner " if brought either by the Custodian or by the person
who was the owner of the patent immediately prior to the seizure.
Held, (since a construction which may render a statute unconstitutional must be avoided if possible,) that the amendment was
not intended to apply retroactively so as to confer upon a former
enemy owner, in a suit brought in time under the original Act, the
right to recover royalties either as against a corporation to which
the patent, with the right to the royalties, had been transferred by
the Custodian during the war, or as against the licensee. P. 162.
39 F. (2d) 366, affirmed.

CERTIORARi, 282

U. S. 819, 820, to review a decree af-

firming a decree of the District Court, 29 F. (2d) 597, by

which it was adjudged that the right to recover royalties,
accrued under a war-time license of enemy-owned patents,
was not in the former German owners of the patents, but
had passed to the Chemical Foundation, in virtue of a
seizure and transfer of the patents and royalty rights by
the Alien Property Custodian.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Mr. Frederick H. Wood, with whom Messrs. Bruce
Bromley and Charles F. Curley were on the brief, for
Farbwerke.
Mr. Almuth C. Vandiver for Badische-Anilin & SodaFabrik and Deutsche Gold & Silber Scheide Anstalt.
Mr. G. Carroll Todd, with whom Mr. W. S. Gregg was
on the brief, for E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company.
Mr. Joseph H. Choate, Jr., with whom Messrs. Wm. G.
Mahaffy, Seiforde M. Stellwagen, and James Garretson
were on the brief, for The Chemical Foundation, Incorporated.
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Thomas E.
Rhodes, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and
J. FrankStaley submitted the cause for Woods, Treasurer,
and Sutherland, Alien Property Custodian.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The writs in the eight above-entitled causes were
granted upon the petitions of parties to four suits instituted to recover compensation for use by E. I. du Pont de
Nemours and Co. of three patents, formerly owned by
three of them (the German corporations), under licenses
issued as provided by the Trading with the Enemy Act,
approved October 6, 1917. 40 Stat. 411, 420, 421, 459,
460, 1020, 1021.
April 6, 1917, the United States declared war with Germany; July 1, 1921, Congress declared it at an end.
The Trading with the Enemy Act authorized the President to appoint an Alien Property Custodian; also to
license domestic corporations to make, use and vend
articles covered by enemy-owned patents, upon agreed
terms, payments therefor to be deposited with the United

FARBWERKE v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.
152

155

Opinion of the Court.

States Treasury in trust for the owners. And it declared-§ 10-that such a license should be a complete
defense to any suit by the owner for damages on account
of anything done thereunder, except as provided by subsection (f), which follows:
"The owner of any patent . . . under which a license
is granted hereunder may, after the end of the war
and until the expiration of one year thereafter, file a bill in
equity against the licensee . . ..
for recovery from the
said licensee for all use and enjoyment of the said patented
invention, . . . The amount of said judgment and decree, when final,' shall be paid on order of the court to
the owner of the patent from the fund deposited by the
licensee, so far as such deposit will satisfy said judgment
and decree; . . ."
License No. 19, granted January 21, 1918, by the Federal Trade Commission, acting under designation by the
President, authorized E. I. du Pont de Nemours and
Co. to make, use and vend the inventions covered by
United States Letters Patent Nos. 680,395, 868,294, and
718,340, severally owned by German corporations, petitioners in causes Nos. 180, 181 and 182. Substantial payments by the licensee were deposited in the Treasury.
The license terminated September 1, 1920.
The Act of March 28, 1918, 40 Stat. 459, 460, amended
§ 12, Trading with the Enemy Act, to provide--" The
Alien Property Custodian shall be vested with all the
powers of a common-law trustee in respect of all property,
other than money, which has been or shall be, or which
has been or shall be required to be, conveyed, transferred,
assigned, delivered, or paid over to him in pursuance of
the provisions of this Act, and, in addition thereto . . .
shall have power to manage such property and do any act
or things in respect thereof or make any disposition
thereof or of any part thereof, by sale or otherwise, and
exercise any rights or powers which may be or become

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

appurtenant thereto or to the owner thereof ... " And
the Act of November 4, 1918, 40 Stat. 1020, 1021, amended
subsection (c) of § 7 to read"If the President shall so require any money or other
property including (but not thereby limiting the generality of the above) patents, copyrights, applications therefor, and rights to apply for the same, trade marks, choses
in action, and rights and claims of every character and
description owing or belonging to or held for, by, on account of, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, an enemy
or ally of enemy not holding a license granted by the President hereunder, which the President after investigation
shall determine is so owing or so belongs or is so held, shall
be conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid over
to the Alien Property Custodian, or the same may be
.seized by the Alien Property Custodian; and all property
thus acquired shall be held, administered and disposed of
as elsewhere provided in this Act.
* "Any requirement made pursuant to this Act, or a duly
certified copy thereof, may be filed, registered, or recorded
in any office for the filing, registering, or recording of conveyances, transfers, or assignments of any such property
or rights as may be covered by such requirement (including the proper office for filing, registering, or recording
conveyances, transfers, or assignments of patents, copyrights, trade-marks, or any rights therein or any other
rights) ; and if so filed, registered, or recorded shall impart the same notice and have the same force and effect
as a duly executed conveyance, transfer, or assignment to
the Alien Property Custodian so filed, registered, or
recorded."
'By three separate, similar written instruments, issued
one February 3 and two March 22, 1919, the Alien Property Custodian declared concerning each of the letters
patent numbered as above stated--" I do seize said letters
patent and every right, title and interest with respect

FARBWERKE v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.
152

157

Opinion of the Court.

thereto, including all damages and profits recoverable at
law or in equity from any person, firm, corporation or
government, for past infringement thereof, subject to the
rights of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware." And by an instrument dated April
10, 1919, he declared--" I do sell, assign, transfer and set
over unto the said the Chemical Foundation (Inc.), its
successors and assigns, the whole right, title, and interest
acquired by me and by said A. Mitchell Palmer [former
Custodian], each as said Alien Property Custodian" in
and to the same letters patent.
June 23, 1922, the Chemical Foundation, Inc., brought
suit against E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co. and Frank
White, Treasurer of the United States. It alleged the
grant of the license to the defendant Company January 21,
1918, to make, use and vend the inventions described and
operation thereunder, but declared complainant was not
informed whether any moneys were " paid or are payable
by said defendant to the Alien Property Custodian, as
required by the terms of said license, nor as to what
moneys, if any, are now held by the defendant Treasurer
of the United States by virtue thereof." Further, that
subsequent to the license the Alien Property Custodian
seized and sold to complainant all of the specified letters
patent, together with every right, title and interest with
respect thereto. The prayer asked discovery and accounting, also that the court determine reasonable compensation for use of the letters patent after complainant acquired
them. And further for judgment to be satisfied from
funds on deposit in the Treasury, if sufficient, otherwise
by the du Pont Company. The reason for limiting the
prayer to compensation after date of acquisition is not
disclosed.
June 30, 1922, petitioners in causes Nos. 180, 181 and
182 brought separate suits against the same defendants.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Each alleged ownership of one of the letters patent, described in the license to the du Pont Company, and asked
recovery for the use thereof, the judgment to be paid out
of funds in the Treasury, if sufficient, otherwise, by that
Company.
Answering the bill of the Chemical Foundation, the du
Pont Company admitted use of the letters patent under
the license; alleged payment of $61,884.98, as reasonable
compensation, to the Alien Property Custodian for deposit in the Treasury, termination of the license September 1, 1920; etc.
October 6, 1927, the District Court ordered consolidation of the four causes "to the extent of the issues therein
relating to Federal Trade Commission License No. 19."
November 9, 1927, Frank White, Treasurer, moved to
dismiss the bill of the Chemical Foundation because it
was not owner of the patents within intendment of § 10,
Trading with the Enemy Act, also because no adequate
ground for relief had been shown. He also answered; admitted assignment of the letters patent to the Foundation;
denied that it was the "owner" within § 10; admitted
the payment into the Treasury of $61,884.98. On the
same date he answered the bills in causes Nos. 180, 181
and 182; demanded proof of the allegations, etc.
January 16, 1928, the du Pont Company moved to dismiss the bills in causes Nos. 180, 181 and 182 because the
complainants were not owners of the letters patent within
§ 10, and because the facts alleged were insufficient to
justify relief. It also answered; denied that the complainants had owned any interest in the letters patent
since April 10, 1919; admitted that it had been licensed
to make, use and vend the inventions covered by the letters patent, and had paid the agreed royalty; denied the
right of the complainants to recover anything for such
use, etc.

FARBWERKE v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.
152

159

Opinion of the Court.

April 28, 1928, in each of the causes Nos. 180, 181 and
182 the Alien Property Custodian moved that he be substituted for the complainant. He alleged that under the
seizures of February 3 and March 22, 1919, his predecessor became owner of the letters patent and that he alone
was authorized to sue within one year after the war ended,
under § 10 (f), Trading with the Enemy Act, to recover
the reasonable royalty; also that under § 19, Act of
March 10, 1928 (Settlement of War Claims Act), 45
Stat. 254, 277, he should be substituted.
The District Court denied the Treasurer's motions to
dismiss, also those of the Alien Property Custodian for
substitution as complainant. It held the German corporations were not "owners" of the accrued royalties;
that the Chemical Foundation, by assignment from the
Alien Property Custodian April 10, 1919, became the
owner of the patents, together with accrued royalties, and
was entitled to an accounting to ascertain the reasonable
compensation for their use and enjoyment during the
period between April 10, 1919, and September 1, 1920;
and when determined, this should be satisfied from funds
in the Treasury derived from payments by the licensee, if
sufficient, and if not, by the du Pont Company.
Except the Chemical Foundation and the du Pont
Company, all parties appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals. That court, 39 F. (2d) 366, affirmed the action
of the District Court, 29 F. (2d) 597.
Joint and several petitions for certiorari by the three
German corporations were granted in causes Nos. 179, 180,
181 and 182.
Writs were also allowed upon the petitions of Woods,
Treasurer of the United States, and Sutherland, Alien
Property Custodian, in Nos. 271, 272, 273 and 274. These
petitioners do not now seek affirmative relief. They
brought the causes here in order to save possible rights.

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

The Chemical Foundation limits its demand to compensation for the period between April 10, 1919, and September 1, 1920. This demand was sustained bolow and is not
now opposed.
The German corporations-former owners-limit their
demands to compensation for the period between January 21, 1918, and April 10, 1919. These demands were
denied below. They are the subjects of the only substantial controversy before us; and its solution depends upon
whether the Alien Property Custodian acquired the rights
of the owners to collect for their previous use under
License No. 19 when he seized the patents, February 3
and March 22, 1919. Both courts below decided against
the German corporations, and properly so we think.
The Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, in very
definite terms authorized seizure of the patents in question; also "rights and claims of every character and description owing to or belonging to or held for, by, on
account of, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, an
enemy . . ." This Court has said-"At the time of
the passage of the act, a large amount of property was
owned and much business was carried on by alien enemies
and their allies in this country. Congress determined that
their property should be taken over and that trade with
them should cease. The purpose was to weaken enemy
countries by depriving their supporters of power to give
aid." Miller v. Robertson, 266 U. S. 243, 248. "There
is nothing to support a strict construction of the Act in
respect of the seizure and disposition of enemy property.
On the other hand, contemporaneous conditions and war
legislation indicate a purpose to employ all legitimate
means effectively to prosecute the war. The law should
be liberally construed to give effect to the purposes it was
enacted to subserve. United States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1, 10.

FARBWERKE v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.
152

161

Opinion of the Court.

The Alien Property Custodian declared: "I do seize
said letters patent and every right, title and interest with
respect thereto," subject to the rights of the du P6nt Company. Considering the general purpose of Congress to
weaken the enemy, this language certainly is broad
enough to include the right of the owners of the seized
patents to recover for their use under the outstanding
license. We can discover no reason for thinking that the
custodian intended to seize the patents but to leave with
enemies a right to sue for compensation on account of
their use during earlier months of the war.
The validity of the seizure by the Alien Property Custodian and of the subsequent sale and transfer to the
Chemical Foundation was affirmed in United States v.
Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1.
The most plausible argument against the conclusion below rests upon § 7, Trading with the Enemy Act, as
amended November 4, 1918. This provides that any requirement under the Act may be filed for registration and
"if so filed, registered, or recorded shall impart the same
notice and have the same force and effect as a duly executed conveyance, transfer, or assignment to the Alien
Property Custodian so filed, registered, or recorded."
It is said that a mere transfer of letters patent by voluntary conveyance would not pass the right to recover accrued compensation for use by a licensee; and that under
the statute this rule must be applied to the seizure. Answering this the court below well said"Accepting this law in the abstract, it is pertinent to
note that we are not here concerned with an assignment of
a patent or of royalties by the German owners to the Alien
Property Custodian. We are concerned with their capture-an act of war. We are not dealing with an assignment of patents where there is a question of what was in
the minds of the contracting parties as to royalties and as
80705*-31-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

to what passed and what was retained under the terms of
an instrument they had drawn and signed. We are dealing with an act of seizure and have to determine wholly
outside the law of assignments whether by the terms of
the symbol of seizure the royalties in question were included. Having in mind the purpose of the law and observing that the Custodian manifestly attempted to seize
the German patents and everything 'in respect' to them
and to their ownership, we are of opinion that he accomplished what he attempted by words that embrace the
royalties in question, and that, in consequence, the German plaintiffs were owners of neither the patents nor the
royalties at the time they instituted their suits . . Y

The Settlement of War Claims Act of March 10, 1928,
45 Stat. 254, 277, provides"Sec. 19. Subsection (f) of section 10 of the Trading
with the Enemy Act, as amended; is amended by adding
at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
"'In the case of any such patent, trade-mark, print,
label, or copyright, conveyed, assigned, transferred or
delivered to the Alien Property Custodian or seized by
him, any suit brought under this subsection, within the
time limited therein, shall be considered as having been
brought by the owner within the meaning of this subsection, in so far as such suit relates to royalties for the
period prior to the sale by the Alien Property Custodian
of such patent, trade-mark, print, label, or copyright, if
brought either by the Alien Property Custodian or by the
person who was the owner thereof immediately prior to
the date such patent, trade-mark, print, label, or copyright, was seized or otherwise acquired by the Alien
Property Custodian.'"
Counsel suggests that, although this enactment came
long after transfer of the patents and rights incident
thereto to the Chemical Foundation, and years after the
present suits began, it authorized the German claimants

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
152

163

Syllabus.

to recover as if owners according to the terms of the
original act and the license to the du Pont Company.
Manifestly, such an interpretation would give rise to a
grave constitutional objection--deprivation of the Chemical Foundation of property without due process. Moreover, the licensee accepted the grant under the provision
that any suit for compensation should be brought by the
owner within one year after termination of the war, "for
all use and enjoyment of the said patented invention,"
and if not, "then the licensee shall not be liable to make
any further deposits, and all funds deposited by him shall
be repaid to him on order of the alien property custodian." In the circumstances the act cannot be interpreted
and applied as suggested.
The decree below must be
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR.JUSTICE STONE took

no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY (INDIANA) ET

AL. V.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 378. Argued January 13, 14, 15, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. Agreements for interchange of licenses under patents covering
processes for the manufacture of an article sold in interstate commerce, may be illegal under the Sherman Act if part of a larger
plan to control interstate markets or if their necessary effect is to
suppress or unduly to restrict competition. They should therefore be closely scrutinized. P. 168.
2. An interchange of patent rights and a division of royalties according to the value attributed by the parties to their respective patent
claims is frequently necessary if technical advancement is not to
be blocked by threatened litigation; aid if the available advantages
are open on reasonable terms to all manufacturers desiring to par-

