HALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
747

Syllabus.

even an infant. The suggestion has been disapproved
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.?
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

HILARY HALBERT,

V. UNITED STATES.
RICH HALBERT v. SAME.
VERNON SIDNEY HALBERT v. SAME.
SIDNEY E. HALBERT v. SAME.
PICKERNOLL ET AL. V. SAME.
JR., ET AL.

LULU M. ELLIOTT

ET AL.

v. SAME.

PETIT ET AL. V. SAME.
BARICHIO ET AL. v. SAME.

EDNA MAY ELLIOTT ET AL. v. SAME.
CHAS. G. ELLIOTT, JR., ET AL. v. SAME.
RUBENS ET AL. V. SAME.
WALKOWSKY ET AL. v. SAME.
ROLFSON ET AL. V. SAME.

PROVOE

ET AL.

v. SAME.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 141-154.

Argued March 11, 12, 1931.-Decided June 1, 1931.

1. Indians of the Chehalis, Chinook and Cowlitz Tribes, not allotted
elsewhere, are among those who, under the Act of March 4, 1911,
are entitled to take allotments on the Quinaielt Reservation in the
State of Washington. P. 760.
2. Personal residence on the reservation is not essential to the right
of allotment. P. 762.
'Jennings v. Wood, 192 Fed. 507.
8070*°-31----8

754

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

283U.S.

3. The rule is general that, in the absence of provision to the contrary, the right of individual Indians to share in tribal property,
whether lands or funds, depends on tribal membership and is
terminated when the membership ends. P. 762.
4. Under the operation of this rule an Indian woman loses her tribal
membership when she marries a white man, separates from the
tribe and lives with him among white people; but it is the separation from the tribe, rather than the marriage, which puts an
end to the membership, the marriage usually serving to explain the
separation and illustrate that it is intentional and permanent. P. 763.
5. But where the Indian woman, after her marriage with a white,
remains in the tribal environment and continues the tribal affiliation,
the membership is not affected. P. 763.
6. If the husband be a citizen of the United States, the woman by
marriage becomes also a citizen; but there is no incompatability
between tribal membership and United States citizenship. Id.
7. The children of a marriage between an Indian woman and a white
man usually take the status of the father; but if the wife retains
her tribal membership and the children are born in the tribal
environment and there reared by her, with the husband failing to
discharge his duties to them, they take the status of the mother.

P. 763.
8. Whether grandchildren of such a marriage have tribal membership
depends on the status of the father or mother as the case may be,
and not on that of a grandparent. P. 763.
9. As to marriages occurring before June 7, 1897, (as the marriages
here did) between a white man and an Indian woman, who was
Indian by blood rather than by adoption-and who on June 7, 1897,
or at the time of her death, was recognized by the tribe,--the
children have the same right to share in the division or distribution
of the property of the tribe of the mother as any other member of
the tribe; but this is in virtue of the Act of June 7, 1897. Id.
10. The Court will decline to consider questions not raised by the
assignment of errors and as to which there is no appropriate
assurance that the record contains all the evidence material to their
decision. P. 764.
38 F. (2d) 795, 799, 805, 806, reversed.
District Court affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 818, 819, to review decrees reversing decrees recovered by the plaintiffs in suits under the

HALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
753

Opinion of the Court.

Act of February 6, 1901, to establish and enforce rights to
allotments on an Indian reservation.
Mr. Webster Ballinger argued the cases, and Messrs.
Overton G. Ellis, Stuart H. Elliott, H. G. Rowland, and
Dix H. Rowland filed a brief, for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Pedro Capo-Rodriguez and Paul D. Miller were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These suits were brought in the District Court for the
Western District of Washington to establish and enforce
asserted rights to allotments, each of 80 acres, in the
Quinaielt Indian Reservation in the southwestern part of
thfit State. Authority for bringing the suits is found in
the statute providing that any person who is "in whole
or in part of Indian blood or descent" and claims to be
entitled to an allotment of land under any law of Congress may prosecute a suit against the United States to
determine and give effect to such right.1 The suits were
heard together in the District Court, where decrees were
given for the plaintiffs, and again in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, where those decrees were reversed.' The
cases are here on certiorari.
The plaintiffs are all of Indian blood and descent, but
none is a full-blood Indian. Some are members of the
Chehalis, Chinook and Cowlitz tribes, and the question
is presented whether these tribes are among those whose
members are entitled to allotments from lands within
'Act of February 6, 1901, c. 217, 31 Stat. 760.

38 F. (2d) 795, 799, 805, 806.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

the Quinaielt Reservation. Many do not personally
reside on the reservation, and we are asked to decide
whether this defeats their claims. Some are the issue,
either children or grandchildren, of a marriage between
an Indian woman and a white man, and whether this is
an obstacle to allowing their claims is a further question.
In 1855 the Quinaielt, Quillehute (also called Quileute),
Chehalis, Chinook and Cowlitz Indians were neighhoring
tribes in the southwesterly section of what is now the
State of Washington. They were all known as "fisheating Indians" and lived in small villages adjacent to the
Pacific coast and the lower reaches of the Columbia
River. The Quits and Ozettes were also fish-eating tribes
living in coast villages a little north of the others, the
Ozettes being farther north than the Quits.
During the early part of 1855 negotiations were had between a representative of the United States and representatives of the Quinaielt, Quillehute, Chehalis, Chinook,
Cowlitz and Quit tribes looking towards a cession by these
tribes of much territory and their consolidation within a
single reservation. These negotiations failed of their full
purpose, but resulted in a treaty between the United
States and the Quinaielts and Quillehutes which was
signed on July 1, 1855, and January 25, 1856.' By this
treaty the Quinaielts and Quillehutes ceded a large district to the United States, and the latter engaged to reserve for their use and occupancy a tract "sufficient for
their wants," to which when established they were to
remove. There were also provisions in the treaty securing to the Indians the right of taking fish "at all usual
and accustomed grounds and stations," in common with
all citizens of that section, and of erecting temporary
houses to be used in that connection; authorizing the
President, at his discretion, to survey the whole or any
' 12 Stat. 971.

HALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
753

757

Opinion of the Court.

part of the reserved lands and assign the same to such
individuals or families "as are willing to avail themselves
of the privilege and will locate on the same as a permanent home "; and consenting that the President might
"consolidate" the Quinaielts and Quillehutes and "other
friendly tribes," whenever in his opinion the public interest and the welfare of the Indians would be promoted
by it.
Under the treaty a reservation of about 10,000 acres at
the mouth of the Quinaielt River was provisionally selected and its boundaries surveyed. Some years later
the local superintendent reported that the reservation, by
reason of being small and containing but a small amount
of agricultural and pasture lands, had proved unattractive
to the Indians; that the Chehalis, Chinook and other
coastal tribes in southwestern Washington, like the
Quinaielts and Quillehutes, who were parties to the treaty,
were all "emphatically fish-eaters," drawing their subsistence almost wholly from the water, and that all of
these fish-eating tribes should be collected on a single
reservation, including suitable fisheries. To that end he
recommended that the existing reservation be greatly enlarged and designated the territory which he believed
should be included in it. This recommendation led to
an order of November 4, 1873, by the President, the material parts of which are as follows :'
"In accordance with the provisions of the treaty with
the Quinaielt and Quillehute Indians, concluded July 1,
1855, and January 25, 1856, and to provide for other
Indians in that locality, it is hereby ordered that the following tract of country in Washington Territory . . . be
withdrawn from sale and set apart for the use of the
Quinaielt, Quillehute, Hoh, Quit, and other tribes of fisheating Indians on the Pacific Coast, . .."
'Executive Orders Relating to Indian Reservations (1912), p. 206.

758

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

This enlarged reservation contained about 200,000
acres and included the prior provisional reservation of
10,000 acres.
By an Act of March 4, 1911,1 Congress directed the Secretary of the Interior to make allotments on the Quinaielt
Reservation under the provisions of the allotment laws
"to all members of the Hoh, Quileute, Ozette or other
tribes of Indians in Washington who are affiliated with
the Quinaielt and Quileute tribes in the treaty [before
named] and who may elect to take allotments on the
Quinaielt Reservation rather than on the reservations set
aside for these tribes." This direction was followed by
a proviso declaring, "The allotments authorized herein
shall be made from the surplus lands of the Quinaielt
Reservation after the allotments to the Indians thereon
have been completed." The reference to "other reservations" may be sufficiently explained by stating that
some small reservations I had been set aside theretofore
for particular villages of the Hoh, Quileute, Ozette, Quit,
Chehalis and other fish-eating tribes, but that these reservations were in some instances limited to 640 acres and
were in no instance large enough to provide allotments
to more than a small fraction of the Indians thereon.
When the bill which became the Act of March 4, 1911,
was introduced in Congress it contained a direction that
allotments be made to "all members of the Hoh, Quileute
and Ozette tribes of Indians in Washington who may
elect" etc., and said nothing about other tribes; but in
the course of its passage this provision was amended so
as to read: "to all members of the Hoh, Quileute,
Ozette or other tribes of Indians in Washington who are
5

c. 246, 36 Stat. 1345.
'Executive Orders Relating to Indian Reservations (1912), pp.
172-175, 195, 200, 205, 206 (Shoalwater).
'Through some oversight the amendment placed the Quileute tribe
on both sides of the affiliation.

HALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
753

Opinion of the Court.

affiliated with the Quinaielt and Quileute ' tribes in the
treaty [before named] and who may elect," etc. This
shows that Congress intended to include tribes not included in the original provision; and it shows further
that they were to be tribes having, like the Hoh and
Ozette tribes, some affiliation with the Quinaielt and
Quileute tribes "in the treaty." Probably "in" was
used in the sense of "under" or "through." Strictly
speaking there was no affiliation in the treaty. But the
treaty did contain a provision under which affiliation
might be brought about. It authorized the President to
consolidate the Quinaielt and Quileute tribes with other
friendly tribes. Under this provision he made the order
establishing the enlarged reservation for the use, not only
of the Quinaielt and Quileute tribes, but also of the Hoh,
Quit and other coastal tribes of fish-eating Indians "in
that locality," evidently meaning in that section of the
Territory of Washington.
That was a step towards consolidation. Other steps
followed, one being that in 1905 the Indian Bureau began making allotments to members of all of these tribes.
This work was carried on under the treaty, the executive
order and the general allotment law, and it had progressed
prior to the Act of 1911 to the point where over 750
allotments had been completed, more than half of which
were to members of the various fish-eating tribes in that
section other than the Quinaielt and Quillehute. It
therefore was altogether appropriate at that time to speak
of these other tribes as affiliated with the Quinaielt and
Quillehute under the treaty.
The action of the administrative officers under the Act
of 1911 has been almost uniformly in accord with the view
just stated. In 1913 a bill was introduced in Congress
to amend the Act of 1911 by specifically including the
Cowlitz and some other fish-eating tribes in southwestern
Washington not before named in the Act; and in a letter

160

OCTO3ER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

responding to an inquiry about the need for the bill the
Indian Bureau said: "It is believed that the Indians referred to in the pending bill may be allotted on the Quinaielt Reservation and that further legislation is unnecessary." The Solicitor for the Department of the Interior
so construed the treaty, executive order and Act of 1911
in an opinion rendered to the Secretary of the Interior,
and that opinion was accepted as a guide in making
further allotments. Possibly it was not followed when
the administrative officers were dealing with the applications of the plaintiffs in these suits. As to that we are
not advised. The record contains a stipulation showing that the applications were rejected but not disclosing
the grounds of that ruling.
Our conclusion on the first question presented is that
the Chehalis, Chinook and Cowlitz tribes are among those
whose members are entitled to take allotments within
the Quinaielt Reservation, if without allotments elsewhere. The Circuit Court of Appeals held otherwise in
some of the suits and in this we think it erred.
The Act of 1911 does not purport to make the right
to an allotment dependent on a personal residence on
the reservation. It is a special act relating only to this
reservation. The land within the reservation is generally
covered with a heavy growth of timber and is difficult of
clearing. As a rule the Indians are poor and would be
without means of supporting themselves while attempting to clear the land. The treaty secures to them the
right of taking fish at all usual and accustomed grounds.
Most of them are fishermen, but a few find employment
in lumber camps. Most of them have for many years
resided in small villages outside the reservation. Some
of the villages are within small reservations made by
executive orders; but the majority of the Indians have
always lived outside any reservation. When the Act of
1911 was passed more than 750 had been given allot-

HALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
753

Opinion of the Court.

ments. Of these not more than 1 out of 5 had ever resided
on the reservation. It is probable that Congress was advised of the situation of these Indians when the special
act was passed and carefully refrained from placing anything in the act indicative of a purpose to make personal
residence on the reservation an element of the right to
an allotment.
These Indians are not the usual reservation Indians.
They never were placed on the reservation or required to
live within its limits. Their situation is quite like that
of the Walla Walla tribe which at one time engaged the
attention of this Court." Hy-Yu-Tse-Mil-Kin v. Smith,
194 U. S. 401, 408-12. A special act directed the allotment of the lands of that tribe. In its title the act was
described as providing for allotments to the Indians "residing upon "the reservation, and in its first sentence there
was a direction that allotments be made to members of
the tribe "residing upon" the reservation. After stating
the situation to which the act was to be applied this Court
said:
"When such a large percentage of allottees upon this
reservation resided, as did the appellee, elsewhere than
actually upon the reservation at the date of the passage
of the act of 1885, it cannot be that the act passed was
intended to limit the right to an allotment to those actually residing on the reservation to the exclusion of a majority of the members of the different bands or tribes.
The fact of such non-residence is presumed to have been
known to Congress, and the act should be construed with
reference to that knowledge.

.

.

. The purpose would

fall very far short of accomplishment were the allotments
confined exclusively to those actually residing within the
limits of the reservation."
While the Act of 1911 provides that the allotments
shall be made under the "allotment laws of the United
'And see Bonifer v. Smith, 166 Fed. 846.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

States," we think this provision hardly could have been
intended to make any provision in those laws requiring
residence applicable to the situation we have described.
The Act of 1911 is not merely silent respecting residence;
it directs that allotments be made to "all members" of
the tribes designated who elect to take allotments upon
the Quinaielt Reservation rather than on "the reservations set aside for these tribes." These words are indicative of a purpose to exclude a residential requirement.
The record shows that the officers administering the
Act did not confine the allotments to Indians actually residing on this reservation or one of the small ones, and
also that they informed applicants that residence was not
required. Counsel for the government admit that such
has been the practice, and they set forth in their brief a
letter of June 13, 1930, from the Secretary of the Interior to the Attorney General, reading as follows:
"The matter of residence upon the reservation was not
insisted upon as a prerequisite to allotment, either before
or after the passage of the Act of March 4, 1911 (36 Stat.
L., 1345) so far as the Quinaielt and other Indians mentioned in the Act or those who were affiliated with the
Quinaielt in the Treaty of 1855 and 1856 are concerned.
A number of allotments have been made to those who
have resided away from the reservation."
These considerations require, as we think, that personal residence on the reservation be held not essential
under the Act of 1911 to the right to an allotment. The
Circuit Court of Appeals took and applied the opposite
view and in this we think it erred.
We come then to the question respecting the status of
fhe issue, either children or grandchildren, of a marriage
between an Indian woman and a white man.
The rule is general that, in the absence of provision
to the contrary, the right of individual Indians to share

HALBERT v. UNITED STATES.
753

Opinion of the Court.

in tribal property, whether lands or funds, depends on
tribal membership and is terminated when the membership is ended.' Under the operation of this rule an
Indian woman loses her tribal membership where she marries a white man, separates from the tribe and lives with
him among white people. But it is the separation from
the tribe rather than the marriage which puts an end to
the membership. The marriage usually serves to explain
the separation and -illustrate that it is intentional and
permanent. But where the woman remains in the tribal
environment and continues the tribal affiliation the memship is not affected. If the husband be a citizen of the
United States, the woman by the marriage becomes also
a citizen,' but there is no incompatibility between tribal
membership and United States citizenship.,
The children of a marriage between an Indian woman
and a white man usually take the status of the father;
but if the wife retains her tribal membership and the
children are born in the tribal environment and there
reared by her, with the husband failing to discharge his
duties to them, they take the status of the mother.
Whether grandchildren of such a marriage have tribal
membership or otherwise depends on the status of the
father or mother as the case may be, and not on that of
a grandparent.
As to marriages occurring before June 7, 1897, (as the
marriages here did) between a white man and an Indian
woman, who was Indian by blood rather than by adoption,-and who on June 7, 1897, or at the time of her
death, was recognized by the tribe,-the children have
'Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, 307; Gritts v.
Fisher, 224 U. S. 640, 642; Sizemore v. Brady, 235 U. S. 441, 446;
La Roque v. United States, 237 U. S. 62, 66; Oakes v. United States,
172 Fed. 304, 307.
'°Act August 9, 1888, c. 818, 25 Stat. 392.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

the same right to share in the division or distribution of
the property of the tribe of the mother as any other member of the tribe, but this is in virtue of the Act of June
7, 1897.11

So far as can be determined from the record the District
Court rightly applied the rules stated in this opinion.
The record does not purport to contain, and evidently
does not contain, all the evidence that was produced on
the hearing. The statement of it was prepared by counsel for the Government and the certificate is that the
statement contains "all the evidence essential to the decision of the questions presented by the appeal of the
defendant." The assignment of errors, which was then
before the District Court, does not challenge the decision
of any question of fact, but only rulings on questions of
law. It is thus rather plain that the statement of evidence contains only so much of the evidence as was
deemed essential to the decision of the latter. We now
are asked to consider questions not raised by the assignment of errors and which cannot be properly decided
without appropriate assurance that the record contains
all the evidence that is material to their decision. We
must decline to consider them.
Decrees of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Decrees of District Court affirmed.

Sac. 3,

30 Stat. 90.

Other modifications of the general rule are

found in the Acts of March 3, 1875, c. 131, § 15, 18 Stat. 420; February 8, 1887, c. 119, § 6, 24 Stat. 390; August 9,1888, supra, § 2;
May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34 Stat. 182.

233, 43 Stat. 253.

And see Act June 2, 1924, c.

