OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283U.S.

FETTERS, U. S. MARSHAL, v. UNITED STATES
EX REL.

CUNNINGHAM.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 720.

Argued April 16, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.

1. In proceedings under § 1014, R. S., the inquiry is limited to the
question whether there is probable cause to believe the prisoner
guilty, so as to justify his commitment and removal for trial.
P. 641.
2. When the indictment is produced before the committing magistrate
it is received not as a pleading, but as evidence establishing or
tending to establish the commission of an offense; and the magistrate has authority to pass upon it only in that aspect. He has no,
authority to determine its sufficiency as a pleading. P. 641.
3. The magistrate in removal proceedings has no power to hold the
facts pleaded in an indictment insufficient to charge an offense,
when that question is reasonably open to a difference of opinion.
Doubtful questions of law relating to the sufficiency of the indictment or the validity of the statute upon which the indictment is
based, as well as all doubtful questions of fact, are matters to be
left for the trial court to determine. P. 641.
District Court reversed.

p. 812, to review an order of the District Court discharging the relator Cunningham in habeas
corpus. The relator was in custody of a U. S. Marshal
for removal for trial under an indictment in the District
of Columbia. See also 26 F. (2d) 272; 33 id. 261; 279
U. S. 597; 282 id. 802.
CERTIORARI, post,

Mr. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Thacher and Mr.
Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ruby R. Vale, with whom Messrs. John W. Dickerson, Otto Kraus, Jr., and Benjamin M. Golder were on
the brief, for respondent.

FETTERS v. UNITED STATES.
638.

Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On April 20, 1928, an indictment was returned by a
grand jury in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, charging the respondent Cunningham with a
violation of § 102, R. S.,* (U. S. C., Title 2, § 192), in
having refused to answer pertinent questions put to him
by a committee of the United States Senate. It is not
necessary to rfproduce the indictment. For present purposes, the facts pleaded therein sufficiently appear in
the opinion of this court in Barry v. U. S. ex rel. Cunningham, 279 U. S. 597. After indictment, respondent
was arrested in Pennsylvania upon a warrant issued
under § 1014, R. S. (U. S. C., Title 18, § 591), and taken
before a United States district judge sitting as a committing magistrate. Section 1014 provides:
"For any crime or offense against the United States,
the offender may, by any justice or judge of the United
States, or by any commissioner of a circuit court to take
bail, or by any chancellor, judge of a supreme or superior
court, chief or first judge of common pleas, mayor of a
city, justice of the peace, or other magistrate, of any
State where he may be found, and agreeably to the usual
mode of process against offenders in such State, and at
the expense of the United States, be arrested and imnprisoned, or bailed, as the case may be, for trial before such
court of the United States as by law has cognizance of
the offense."
*

See. 102.

Every person who having been summoned as a witness

by the authority of either House of Congress, to give testimony or
to produce papers upon any matter under inquiry before either House,
or any committee of either House of Congress, willfully makes default,
or who, having appeared, refuses to answer any question pertinent to
the question under inquiry, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars nor less
than one hundred dollars, and imprisonment in a common jail for not
less than one month nor more than twelve months.

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

That section further provides for the removal of the
offender, if committed, to the district where the offense is
to be tried.
At the hearing before the district judge the government,
to show probable cause, introduced in evidence a certified
copy of the indictment, and rested. Respondent challenged the sufficiency of the indictment upon the ground
that the questions set forth therein, which he had refused
to answer, were not pertinent to the committee's inquiry,
and introduced a transcript of the proceedings before the
committee. The district judge ordered respondent's commitment and his removal to the District of Columbia.
Respondent, thereupon, sought his discharge from the custody of the United States Marshal, and filed a petition for
a writ of habeas corpus to that end in the federal district
court presided over by the same judge. That court held
the indictment sufficient to support the commitment and
removal and dismissed the petition. 26 F. (2d) 272. On
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, the order of the district court was reversed on the
ground that the indictment disclosed that the questions
propounded to respondent were not pertinent to the inquiry, and, therefore, there was not probable cause for
respondent's commitment and removal to another district for trial. 33 F. (2d) 261.
After our decision in the Barry case, supra, the court of
appeals granted a rehearing, but, upon consideration,
adhered to its former decision. Thereupon, the United
States Marshal applied to this court for a writ of certiorari, which was granted, but with an order vacating the
judgments of both lower courts and remanding the cause
to the district court with directions to dismiss the proceeding as abated. Matheus v. U. S. ex rel. Cunningham,
282 U. S. 802. This was done because the United States
Marshal named in the petition had gone out of office and
no substitution had been made within the statutory

FETTERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

638

period. Respondent then surrendered himself to United
States Marshal Fetters, who was then in office, and filed
a new habeas corpus petition; and upon that petition,
after a hearing, the district court ordered the respondent
to be discharged, deeming itself bound by the opinion of
the court of appeals upon the former appeal. It is this
last order which is now here for review, this court having
granted a writ of certiorari pending the disposition of an
appeal therefrom to the court below..
In proceedings under § 1014, R. S., the inquiry is limited to the question whether there is probable cause to
believe the prisoner guilty, so as to justify his commitment and removal for trial. This inquiry may take place
in advance of indictment or without the production of
the indictment if one has been returned. When the
indictment is produced before the committing magistrate
it is received not as a pleading, but as evidence estabflshing or tending to establish the commission of an
offense; and the magistrate has authority to pass upon
it only in that aspect. He has no authority to determine
its sufficiency as a pleading. Morse v. United States, 267
U. S. 80, 83, and cases cited.
Whether the indictment in this case properly could be
held sufficient by the trial court upon demurrer, we have
no occasion to consider. Without going into particulars,
we think it clearly sufficient for removal purposes. The
most that can be said is that the question whether the
indictment is sufficient to put the respondent on trial is
fairly debatable. It was never intended by § 1014 that
an examining magistrate should have the power in removal proceedings to hold the facts pleaded in an indictment insufficient to charge an offense when that question
is reasonably open to a difference of opinion. Doubtful
questions of law relating to the sufficiency of the indictment or the validity of the statute upon which the indict°

80705 -31---1

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U. S.

ment is based, as well as all doubtful questions of fact,
are matters to be left for the trial court to determine.
Parker v. United States, 3 F. (2d) 903, 904, and cases
cited.
In Hughes v. Gault, 271 U. S. 142, this court, after
pointing out that the proceedings under § 1014, R. S.,
were intrusted not only to judges and commissioners of
the United States and judges of state courts, but to any
"mayor of a city, justice of the peace, or other magistrate, of any State where (the accused] may be found,"
said (p. 150):
"Obviously, in order to make it the duty of the judge
to issue the warrant a mayor or a magistrate not a lawyer
cannot be expected to do more than to decide in a summary way that the indictment is intended to charge an
offense against the laws of the United States, that the
person before him is the person charged and that there is
probable cause to believe him guilty, without the magistrate's being held to more than avoiding palpable
injustice."
A rule in respect of the power of one of the magistrates
named in the statute, of course, applies to all.
And see Rodman v. Pothier,264 U. S.399, 402; Henry
v. Henkel, 235 U. S.219, 229.
The first order of commitment and removal made by
the district judge was proper and should have been sustained. In the trial court the accused will have every
opportunity to test the sufficiency of the indictment, since
there it is not evidence, but "the very foundation of the
charge." Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S.1, 12.
The judgment of the district court must be reversed
and the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

