OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U.S.

fifty miles in length (New York, New Haven & Hartford R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628, 633, 634), and
statutes requiring a minimum number of men in train
crews but not applying to railroads of less than a stated
mileage. (Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 240 U. S. 518.) See, also,
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 354.
As we find no ground for holding the Act of 1926 to be
invalid under the Federal Constitution, it is unnecessary
to consider the questions discussed in relation to the Act
of 1914.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. WELLS

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 252.

Argued March 13, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.

1. Whether a gift inter vivos was made "in contemplation of death"
within the meaning of the Revenue Act of 1918, depends upon the

donor's motive, to be determined in each case from the circumstances, including his bodily and mental condition. Pp. 115, 119.
2. A gift is made "in contemplation of death" when the motive inducing it is of the sort that leads to testamentary disposition, but
not when the motive is merely to attain an object desirable to the
donor in his life, as where the immediate and moving cause of
transfers was the carrying out of a policy, long followed by the
decedent in dealing with his children, of making liberal gifts to them
during his lifetime. Pp. 117, 119.
3. A transfer may be "in contemplation of death" though not in-.
duced by a fear that death is near at hand. Pp. 113, 119.
4. Upon review of a judgment of the Court of Claims, the findings
of fact are to be treated like the verdict of a jury and cannot be
added to or modified by reference to that court's opinion. P. 120.

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

Argument for the United States.

5. But absence of a finding of an ultimate fact does not require a
reversal, if the circumstantial facts as found are such that the
ultimate fact follows from them by necessary inference. Pp. 111, 120.
So held where the opinion of the Court of Claims showed clearly
the inference that it drew from its findings.

69 Ct. Cls. 485; 39 F. (2d) 998, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

282 U. S. 822, to review a judgment re-

covered in the Court of Claims on a claim for repayment
of an estate tax.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Messrs. H. Brian Holland and Erwin
N. Griswold were on the brief, for the United States.
There has been a tendency on the part of the legislatures and the courts to broaden the meaning of the words
"in contemplation of death" in order that the tax may
be made effective. Early decisions construed these words
as referring only to gifts causa mortis, but this definition
has been abandoned in favor of constructions which,
although at variance with each other, are becoming increasingly liberal. This Court has not had occasion to
pass upon the meaning of the phrase as used in the federal
estate tax laws.
It is clear that the words "in contemplation of death"
mean neither that knowledge which all men have that
ultimate death is inevitable, nor such an expectancy of
death as is required in a gift causa mortis. Congress intended to tax certain gifts inter vivos which are made in
lieu of those usually effected by will or by the operation
of the intestacy laws. The character of such gifts is determined by the state of mind of the donor at the time
they are made. If his purpose is to attain some object
desirable to him during his life as distinguished from the
distribution of his estate as at death, the gift is not of the
character declared to be taxable.
If the apparent approaching probability of death subordinates the normal desire to retain one's property, so
that the gift is not caused by normal generosity, but is

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2&3 U.S.

motivated by the same considerations that lead to testamentary dispositions, and is made as a substitute for them.
then that gift is made in contemplation of death.
The Act provides that all gifts made within two years
of death are presumed to have been made in contemplation of death unless the contrary is shown. Various types
of evidence are available to the taxpayer for the purpose
of rebutting this presumption. Of these the fact that the
donor was in good health is only one, and is not sufficient
to overcome the presumption if the donor ivas so far
advanced in years that death could not, in the nature of
things, be far away.
The presumption may be overcome only by proof that
the decedent in making the gift was actuated by an affirmative desire to achieve some purpose desirable to him in
his lifetime. If the existence of such a purpose does not
appear, the gift is presumed to have been testamentary
in character and is therefore taxable.
In the present case, the gifts were made when the donor
was over seventy years of age. The lower court did not
find as a fact that the gifts were not made in contemplation of death. Nor did it find as a fact that they were
made to fulfill some living purpose of the donor. At the
time of the second and third transfers, he was recovering
from a severe illness, of the same nature as that which
eventually caused his death. The decision of the Court
of Claims was founded on an erroneous interpretation of
the Act, placing undue emphasis on the decedent's physical condition as distinguished from his state of mind,
which alone established the character of the gift.
Mr. W. W. Spalding for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
John W. Wells, a resident of Menominee, Michigan,
died on August 17, 1921. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue assessed additional estate taxes, upon the ground

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

Opinion of the Court.

that certain transfers by the decedent within two years
prior to his death, were made in contemplation of death
and should be included in the taxable estate under the
provisions of § 402 (c) of the Revenue Act of 1918, 40
Stat. 1057, 1097. The amount of the additional tax was
paid by the executors and claim for refund was filed. The
claim having been rejected, the executors brought this suit
in the Court of Claims to recover the amount paid. The
Court of Claims decided in favor of the executors, 69 Ct.
Cls. 485; 39 F. (2d) 998, and this Court granted a writ of
certiorari.
The substance of the findings of the Court of Claims
with respect to the circumstances of the transfers may be
stated as follows:
The decedent died at the age of seventy-three years;
his wife and five children, three sons and two daughters,
survived him. When a young man he became interested
in the business of acquiring and selling timber lands and
of manufacturing lumber. He continued in that business
to the time of his death.
As early as the year 1901, decedent began the making
of advancements of money and other property to his children. He kept a set of books on which he charged to his
children some, but not all, of the amounts transferred to
them. The decedent believed that the appropriate course
for a man of wealth was to give to his children substantial
sums of money during his lifetime while he could advise
with them as to its proper use. He informed one of his
friends: I am making distribution from time to time of
part of my property to see what my children will do during my lifetime, and I will then know when my time is
up what I ought to do with the balance." 1
1 Speaking

of a less liberal policy of a former business associate,

who died in or about the year 1918, decedent frequently expressed
his opinion that his friend "had made a big mistake in not distributing his property to his children while he was alive to help them
handle it properly and said ' that is not my policy.,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

In 1918, decedent advanced to three of his children,
Ralph W. Wells, Mrs. Edna Walsh, and Mrs. Florence
Law, shares of stock in the Dunbar & Wausaukee Railway
Company for which he charged each of them, in the equalization hereafter mentioned, the sum of $25,460. Neither
this transfer, nor any of the earlier transfers, is in controversy.
In December, 1919, decedent transferred to his son
Artemus C. Wells, 343 shares, and to his son Daniel Wells,
73 shares, of the stock of the J. W. Wells Lumber Company. He charged Artemus with $89,180, and Daniel
with $18,890, on account of these transfers.
On January 1, 1921, after carefully examining his accounts in preparing for the final equalization of the prior
advancements, decedent transferred to his children 68,985
shares of the stock of the Girard Lumber Company. His
summaries of accounts with each of his children showed
debit balances, on which he had computed interest, as follows: Daniel Wells, $266,530; Artemus C. Wells, $231,651;
Ralph W. Wells, $214,008; Mrs. Florence Law, $216,445;
and Mrs. Edna Walsh, $180,662. The decedent endorsed
each of these statements with the words "Account with
" "this account is canceled and ledger balanced
" (the name of the son or
to date as a gift to
daughter being inserted), or with other words to the same
effect.
In this process of equalization decedent charged his
children with a total of 3458 shares of the capital stock
of the Lloyd Manufacturing Company. These shares
were not delivered at that time, as decedent had agreed to
exchange them for a like number of shares in a new company to result from an expected merger. On January 26,
1921, decedent transferred to Marshall B. Lloyd, as trustee
for the benefit of his wife and five children, 3713 shares
of the stock of the Lloyd Manufacturing Company with
authority to exchange these shares for shares of the stock
of the new corporation, on the issue of which the trustee
-__

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

Opinion of the Court.

was to assign the shares to decedent's wife and children,
respectively, in designated amounts, or, in the event that
the exchange was not consummated before December 1,
1921, to distribute to them the shares of the Lloyd company.2 On April 6, 1921, Lloyd, the trustee, distributed
the certificates for the .shares in the new company, but
the finding states that the decedent had divested himself
of all interest in the 3713 shares of the Lloyd stock when
they were transferred in trust.
The transfers which the Commissioner deemed to be
subject to the additional estate tax are these:
That of December, 1919, to his sons Daniel and Artemus, of 416 shares of the stock of the J. W. Wells Lumber
'On the day that this trust agreement was made, decedent wrote
to his son Ralph (then in England): "I am going to divide Lloyd
pref. stock and most of G. L. Co. (Girard Lumber Co.) among you
children at once so you will have enough to keep you from hunger
at least. I own now 5103 Lloyd stock, $100 per share. Income
$35,721. I am going to even up my gifts to all now, and the following is the way they stand before the evening up" (inserting statement). "I have charged all of you interest on your accounts at
5% and I have charged you and Art $50,000 apiece for motor loss
and credit you for W. P. L. Co. stock charged you. I am mighty
busy getting ready for the West, so good-bye."
On February 3, 1921, on leaving for California, decedent wrote to
his daughter, Mrs. Edna Walsh: "I have been working on my books
and evening up all your accounts. Dan, Art, and Ralph have had
advances that were more than you and Florence had and I have
equalized one with the other by charging each with what they have
had and charging them interest on the account to date, and the
inclosed sheet shows what each has had and how I equalized your
a/cs by giving stock to even. Your Lloyd stock will be delivered as
soon as the deal is closed, which will be very soon. Your Lloyd stock
is worth $108,600 and the Girard stock is worth $252,000, so you
need not take in washing for support unless you throw it away on
copper or other junk. In making out these accounts, the thing that
seems most important is how interest runs up. Good safe bonds
are the best investment for a person who does not understand business. Well, my dear girl, take good care of this, remember the poor
and needy, and you will receive your reward. Good-bye."

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Company, increased by a subsequent stock dividend to
1280 shares at the date of the decedent's death;
That of January 1, 1921, to his children, of 68,985 shares
of the stock of the Girard Lumber Company;
That of January 26, 1921, in trust for his wife and children, of 3713 shares of the stock of the Lloyd Manufaturing Company.
The aggregate value at the time of the decedent's death
of all the property embraced in these transfers was $782,903. Excluding this property, the value of decedent's
estate at the time of his death was $881,314.61, on which
the decedent's annual income was approximately $50,000
a year.
The Court of Claims made detailed findings as to the
state of decedent's health. It appeared that for some time
prior to the year 1919, he had suffered from attacks of
asthma. In May of that year he went to a hospital in
Chicago for treatment and remained eleven days. About
the middle of April, 1920, decedent began to be afflicted
with ulcerative colitis, a condition in which the large intestine becomes inflamed. The finding states: "It is a
curable disease. About eighty to eighty-five per cent. of
the cases are cured." In June, 1920, decedent was advised by physicians in California that he was suffering
from cancer of the intestines. In the following July, decedent again entered the hospital in Chicago and, on an
examination by a specialist in diseases of the bowels, the
case was diagnosed as ulcerative colitis. Between July
and September, 1920, decedent was informed in detail of
his condition. His physician told him that "he would
get well."
While at the hospital, following an inquiry by his business associate, Marshall B. Lloyd, whether decedent had
made any agreement with his second wife, Katherine
Wells, with reference to a division of property after his
death, decedent made such an agreement. Reciting his

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

Opinion of the Court.

illness, it provided that his wife "should have $100,000 in
money and certain other property in lieu of her statutory
and dower rights." Mrs. Wells ratified all gifts theretofore made by the decedent to his children and all gifts
which might be made to his children thereafter "and before his death whether any of such gifts be made in contemplation of his death, or otherwise." Pursuant to the
agreement, decedent made his will on August 18, 1920,
the provisfons of which differed only slightly from those
of an earlier will. After providing for the payment of
$100,000 to his widow and making other bequests, decedent devised his residuary estate to his five children, with
the proviso: "Provided, however, that the amount shown
to be due me from each of my children severally in accordance with my books at the time of my death, shall be
considered advancement made by me to them from time
to time and shall be chargeable to each of them severally
as advancements and shall be deducted from their respective shares."
On September 14, 1920, decedent wrote to his son
Ralph: "The doctors say that I will be absolutely cured
if I am careful for two or three months after leaving and
I certainly will be careful after this." 8
On September 22, 1920, decedent was discharged from
the hospital in an improved condition. His medical adviser stated that decedent's condition was "excellent,""he had not fully at that time recovered but he did
within the next two or three months." "His appearance
was normal; he had gained an appreciable amount of
weight" and "he was in a very fair state of health." On
his return to Menominee, decedent said to his son, who
had been in charge of his affairs during his absence, that
3 At about this time, the hospital physician found marked evidence
of an inflammation of the ethmoid cells which are connected with
the nasal cavity, and concluded that there was very likely a close
relation between the ethmoiditis and the asthma.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

"he was completely cured of the trouble that he had had
and he felt good."

Decedent then resumed his normal

business activities.'
Decedent was again admitted to the hospital in Chicago, on November 30, 1920, for the purpose of an operation to relieve his asthma. His physician stated that at
that time "he found him to be in good general condition."'
On December 9, 1920, decedent was discharged
from the hospital and returned to his home. He went
back to the hospital on January 10, 1921, for the completion of the nasal operation! At the time of his discharge
on January 14, 1921, the medical examination showed "' a
very greatly improved condition' and that in respect to
the ulcerative colitis it was' 90 per cent. normal.'"
On January 26, 1921, the date of the trust agreement
(constituting the last of the transfers in question) decedent wrote to his son Ralph: "The doctors pronounce me
cured of bowel trouble, but I will always have asthma. I
weigh 140 stripped." On February 3, 1921, he left for
California, where he was accustomed to spend the winter months. His physician stated that decedent at that
time "considered himself well, and I told him that he
need have no anxiety whatever about his state of health;
4 Writing

to his son Ralph on October 30, 1920, decedent said:
. .I feel as well as ever,
and bowels seem normal, but doctor says I must diet and take bismuth medicine for a while and be careful. Gained six pounds since
I came home."
5 The physician said that decedent " came to the hospital for
treatment of the asthma, not for the bowel trouble. In fact, it was
by arrangement when he left the hospital in September that he came
back at this time, in November, to have the operative work done on
the nose that was designed to clear up the asthma."
6 His physician then made the following entry in the hospital
record with respect to decedent's condition: "In general feels very
well. Gained six pounds in weight. Asthma has been somewhat
troublesome at times. Has had very good bowel function. No pain.
Returns for completion of nasal operation."

"I am around about the same as usual. .

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

il

Opinion of the Court.

that I considered him in excellent condition; that he
need have no fears of any recurrence of the ulcerated
T
colitis."
But in April, 1921, while still in California. decedent
had such a recurrence. He consulted a specialist of reputation who after examination informed him that he
might have a. cancer, and advised an operation. In June,
1921, decedent reentered the hospital in Chicago. His
condition proved to be due to & virulent forl of inf'ction that failed to yield to treatment. Returning to his
home, lie continued to lose ground and lie died on August 17, 1921. An autopsy disclosed a severe and ex-tensive inflamiation of the large intestine, with ulceration of
the bowel. No trace of cancer was found. The death
certificate signed by his physician set forth the cause of
decedent's death as "suppurative colitis" and its "duration one year."

The Court of Claims did not find, in terns, that the
transfers in question were not made in contemplation of
death, but it is evident that the court considered that its

findings of fact amounted to that in substance, in view
'In February, 1921, friends of the decedent, visitintg him in California, wexe taken by him on extended motor trips. "Decedent
drove the car himelvf through the congested portion of the city (Los
Ang ,les). as well as around or over the mountains near that city.

At places on these mountain roads the automobile party driven by
the decedent traversed roads that. ran almong a precilie where there

is a nheer fall of six or seven thousand feet without any appaint
conern or distxvm on the part of the decedent."

His friends "did

not e any difference in his appearance. He seemed to be just as
spry as he ever wass and handled the car in pretty good shape." He
'was thought to be "very cheerful."
In a letter dated February 21, 1921, written to his children,
decedent said: "I am about free of my bowel trouble, but ha.ve my
old oomplaint, athma, but I have taken treitment at Batch Creek
Treatment Roams here the last two years and they have cleard it
up and they are now treating me and it is elearun up.'

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

of the conclusion of law, based upon these findings, that
the executors were entitled to recover the additional tax.
This is also manifest from the reasoning of the court's
opinion. The court said [p. 513]:
"The plaintiffs have not only overcome the presumption created by the statute that the transfers were made
in contemplation of death but have definitely established
the fact that the immediate and moving cause of the
transfers was the carrying out of a policy long followed
by decedent in dealing with his children of making liberal
gifts to them during his lifetime. He had consistently
followed that policy for nearly thirty years and the three
transfers in question were a continuation and final consummation of such policy. In the last transfer such
amounts were given to hisechildren as would even them
up one with another, in the gifts and advancements made
to them.
"That this was the motive which actuated the decedent
in making these transfers seems unquestioned. He repeatedly, in letters to his children and in statements to
business associates at about the time the transfers were
made, gave this as his reason for such transfers.
"After the final transfer in which the advancements
and gifts to the children were evened up in January, 1921,
the decedent still possessed property of the value of
nearly $900,000, from which he drew an annual income
of approximately $50,000. At the time the transfers
were made, decedent had no reason to believe otherwise
than [that], aside from his asthma, he was, for a man
of his age, in ordinary health. While he had gone through
a most serious and painful illness, he had, as he believed,
made an almost complete recovery. He was assured of
this fact by his physician, an eminent specialist, in whom
he had great confidence. The repeated statements made
by him to close friends and associates, his daily activities
in matters connected with his business affairs, his letters
to his children assuring them of his renewed health, show

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

Opinion of the Court.

that he fully believed the assurances given him by his
physician that he was cured and had nothing to fear on
account of his former illness.
"The presumption created by the statute that the
transfers in question were made in contemplation of
death can not stand against ascertained and proven facts
showing the contrary to be true. The best evidence of
the state of the decedent's health at the time the transfers were made is the statement of his doctor. The best
evidence of the decedent's state of mind at that time and
the reasons actuating him in making the transfers are the
statements and expressions of the decedent himself, supported as such statements are by all the circumstances
concerning the transfers."8
The Government contests the decision of the Court of
Claims upon the ground that the conclusion was reached
by an erroneous construction of the words "in contemplation of death" as used in the statute. The court held
that "' contemplation of death' does not mean that general knowledge of all men that they must die, but that
8Referring to the agreement made in the summer of 1920 with the
decedent's wife as to her share of his property, and to the making of
his will, the court said: "While these transactions are entitled to
consideration in connection with all the other facts and circumstances
shown, we do not regard them as having a great deal of weight in
determining the question as to the decedent's state of mind and the
motives actuating him in making transfers of pioperty, four months
later. No transfers of property were made to the children at the
time of the execution of the property agreement with his wife, and
the provisions made for their benefit in the will executed at that time
were identical with the provisions of a former will. Whatever apprehensions the decedent entertained at the time of the making of
the property agreement with his wife as to the chances of recovery
from the illness from which he was suffering at that time, had ceased
to exist before the transfer of the Girard Lumber Company stock on
January 1, 1921, and the Lloyd Manufacturing Company stock on
January 26, 1921."
8070581----

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

there must be a present apprehension, from some existing
bodily or mental condition or impending peril, creating a
reasonable fear that death is near at hand, and that such
reasonable fear or apprehension must be the direct or animating cause, and the only cause of the transfer." ' The
Government insists that this definition is too narrow; that
transfers in contemplation of death are not limited to
those induced by a condition causing expectation of death
in the near future; that the character of such gifts is determined by the state of mind of the donor at the time
they are made, and that the statutory presumption may
be overcome only by proof that the decedent's purpose in
making the gift was to attain some object desirable to him
during his life, as distinguished from the distribution of
his estate hs at death.
9In support of this view, the court cited Spreckels v. State, 30 Cal.
App. 363; 158 Pac. 549; Shwab v. Doyle, 269 Fed. 321; Meyer v.
United States, 60 Ct. Cs. 474; Rea v. Heiner, 6 F. (2d) 389; and
Starck, Executor, 3 B. T. A. 514. See, also, Phillips, Executor, 7
B. T. A. 1054; Stein, et al., Executors, 9 B. T. A. 486; Gimbel et al.,
Executors, 11 B. T. A. 214; George A. Wheelock's Estate, 13 B. T. A.
831; Commonwealth v. Fenley, 189 Ky. 480; 225 S. W. 154; State v.
Pabst, 139 Wis. 561; 121 N. W. 351; State v. Thompson, 154 Wis.
320; 142 N. W. 647; Gaither v. Miles, 268 Fed. 692; Vaughan v.
Riordan, 280 Fed. 742; Flannery v. Willcuts, 25 F. (2d) 951; Beeler
v. Matter, 33 F. (2d) 788; Rosenthal v. People, 211 Ill. 306; 71 N. E.
1121; People v. Burkhalter, 247 1.600; 93 N. E. 379; People v. Carpenter, 264 Ill. 400; 106 N. E. 302; People v. Northern Trust Co.,
625; 155 N. E. 768; Matter of Baker, 83 App. Div. (N. Y.)
324 Ill.
530; 82 N. Y. S. 390; affirmed 178 N. Y. 575; 70 N. E. 1094; Matter
of Palmer, 117 App. Div. (N. Y.) 361; 102 N. Y. S. 236; Matter of
Baird, 219 App. Div. (N. Y.) 418; 219 N. Y. S.158. But, compare
Estate of Reynolds, 169 Cal. 600; 147 Pac. 268; Estate of Pauson,
186 Cal. 358; 199 Pac. 331; Chambers v. Larronde, 196 Cal. 100;
235 Pac. 1024; Armstrong v. Indiana, 72 Ind. App. 303; 120 N. E.
717; Matter of Crary, 31 Misc. (N. Y.) 72; 64 N. Y. S.566; Matter
of Price, 62 Misc. (N. Y.) 149; 116 N. Y. S. 283; Tax Commission
v. Parker,117 Ohio St. 215; 158 N. E. 89; Rengstorff v. McLaughlin,
21 F. (2d) 177.

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

Opinion of the Court.

The phrase "in contemplation of death," previously
found in state statutes, was first used by the Congress in
the Revenue Act of 1916, imposing an estate tax. It was
coupled with a clause creating a statutory presumption in
case of gifts within two years before death."0 The provision was continued in the Revenue Act of 1918,11 which
governs the present case, and in later legislation. While
the interpretation of the phrase has not been uniform,
there has been agreement upon certain fundamental considerations. It is recognized that the reference is not to
the general expectation of death which all entertain. It
must be a particular concern, giving rise to a definite motive.12 The provision is not confined to gifts causa mortis,
10 39 Stat. 756, 777, 778.

- 40 Stat. 1057, 1097. Section 402 (c) provides: "To the extent
of any interest therein of which the decedent has at any time made
a transfer, or with respect to which he has at any time created a trust,
in contemplation of or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death (whether such transfer or trust is made or
created before or after the passage of this Act), except in case of a
bona fide sale for a fair consideration in money or money's worth.
Any transfer of a material part of his property in the nature of a
final disposition or distribution thereof, made by the decedent within
two years prior to his death without such a consideration, shall,
unless shown to the contrary, be deemed to have been made in
contemplation of death within the meaning of this title; "
12Article 23 of Regulations 37, under the Revenue Act of 1918,
contained the following:
"Art. 23. Nature of Transfer.-The words 'in contemplation of
death' do not refer to the general expectation of death which all
persons entertain. A transfer, however, is made in contemplation of
death wherever the person making it is influenced to do so by such an
expectation of death, arising from bodily or mental conditions, as
prompts persons to dispose of their property to those whom they
deem proper objects of their bounty. The cause which induces such
bodily or mental conditions is immaterial; and it is not necessary that
the decedent be in the immediate expectation of death. Such a
transfer is taxable, although the decedent parts absolutely and immediately with his title to and possession of the property. Transfers

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

which are made in anticipation of impending death, are
revocable, and are defeated if the donor survives the apprehended peril. Basket v. Hassell, 107 U. S. 602, 609,
610.18 The statutory description embraces gifts inter
vivos, despite the fact that they are fully executed, are
irrevocable and indefeasible. The quality which brings
the transfer within the statute is indicated by the context and manifest purpose. Transfers in contemplation
of death are included within the same category, for the
purpose of taxation, with transfers intended to take effect
at or after the death of the transferor. The dominant
made within two years of a decedent's death are presumed to be taxable if they are of a material part of his property and are in the
nature of a final disposition thereof. . . . All facts relating to the
transfer should be stated, including the motive therefor, the decedent's
state of health, and his *anticipation of death. The presumption of
taxability may be rebutted by proof that the transfer was not induced by bodily or mental conditions leading the grantor to make a
disposition of property testamentary in its nature. The fact that a
gift was made as an advancement, to be taken into account upon the
final distribution of the decedent's estate, is not enough, standing
alone, to establish taxability; -but it is a circumstance to be considered in determining whether the transfer was made in contemplation of death."
18 In Matter of Seaman, 147 N. Y. 69, 76; 41 N. E. 401, the court,
referring to the words "in contemplation of death" in the Inheritance Tax Law of New York, said that the clause "evidently
referred to grants or gifts causa mortis." See also Matter of
Edgerton, 35 App. Div. (N. Y.) 125; 54 N. Y. S. 700; affirmed 158
N. Y. 671; 52 N. E. 1124; Matter of Spaulding, 49 App. Div. (N. Y.)
541; 63 N. Y. S. 694; affirmed 163 N. Y. 607; 57 N. E. 1124; Matter
of Baker, 83 App. Div. (N. Y.) 530; 82 N. Y. S. 390; affirmed 178
N. Y. 575; 70 N. E. 1094. But compare Matter of Palmer, 117 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 361, 366, 367, 368; 102 N. Y. S. 236; Matter of Crary,
31 Misc. (N. Y.) 72, 75; 64 N. Y. S. 566; Matter of Price, 62 Misc.
(N. Y.) 149, 151, 152; 116 N. Y. S. 283; Matter of Dee, 148 N. Y.
Supp. 423; affirmed 161 App. Div. (N. Y.) 881; 145 N. Y.-S. 1120;
affirmed 210 N. Y. 625; 140 N. E. 1128; Matter of Hodges, 215
N. Y. 447; 109 N. E. 559.

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

Opinion of the Court.

purpose is to reach substitutes for testamentary dispositions and thus to prevent the evasion of the estate tax.
Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531, 542; Milliken v. United
States, ante, p. 15. As the transfer may otherwise have
all the indicia of a valid gift inter vivos, the differentiating factor must be found in the transferor's motive.
Death must be "contemplated," that is, the motive which
induces the transfer must be of the sort which leads to
testamentary disposition. As a condition of body or
mind that naturally gives rise to the feeling that death is
near, that the donor is about to reach the moment of inevitable surrender of ownership, is most likely to prompt
such a disposition to those who are deemed to be the
proper objects of his bounty, the evidence of the existence
or non-existence of such a condition at the time of the
gift is obviously of great importance in determining
whether it is made in contemplation of death. The natural and reasonable inference which may be drawn from
the fact that but a short period intervenes between the
transfer and death, is recognized by the statutory provision creating a presumption in the case of gifts within
two years prior to death. But this presumption, by the
statute before us, is expressly stated to be a rebuttable
one, and the mere fact that death ensues even shortly
after the gift does not determine absolutely that it is in
contemplation of death. The question, necessarily, is as
to the state of mind of the donor.
As the test, despite varying circumstances, is always to
be found in motive, it cannot be said that the determinative motive is lacking merely because of the absence of a
consciousness that death is imminent. It is contemplation of death, not necessarily contemplation of imminent
death, to which the statute refers. It is conceivable that
the idea of death may possess the mind so as to furnish a
controlling motive for the disposition of property, although death is not thought to be close at hand. Old age

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

may give premonitions and promptings independent of
mortal disease. Yet age in itself cannot be regarded as
furnishing a decisive test, for sound health and purposes
associated with life, rather than with death, may motivate
the transfer. The words "in contemplation of death"
mean that the thought of death is the impelling cause
of the transfer, and while the belief in the imminence of
death may afford convincing evidence, the statute is not
to be limited, and its purpose thwarted, by a rule of construction which in place of contemplation of death makes
the final criterion to be an apprehension that death is
"near at hand."
If it is the thought of death, as a controlling motive
prompting the disposition of property, that affords the
test, it follows that the statute does not embrace gifts inter
vivos which spring from a different motive. Such transfers were made the subject of a distinct gift tax, since
repealed.1" As illustrating transfers found to be related
to purposes associated with life, rather than with the distribution of property in anticipation of death, the Government mentions transfers made "for the purpose of relieving the donor of the cares of management or in order
that his children may experience the responsibilities of
business under his guidance and supervision." The illustrations are useful but not exhaustive. The purposes
which may be served by gifts are of great variety. It is
common knowledge that a frequent inducement is, not
only the desire to be relieved of responsibilities, but to
have children, or others who may be the appropriate objects of the donor's bounty, independently established
with competencies of their own, without being compelled
to await the death of the donor and without particular
14 Revenue Act of 1924, §§ 319-324, 43 Stat. 253, 313, as amended
by Revenue Act of 1926, § 324, 44 Stat. 9, 86. Bromley v. McCaughn,
280 U. S. 124. Revenue Act of 1926, § 1200 (a), 44 Stat. 9, 125, 126.

UNITED STATES v. WELLS.
102

Opinion of the Court.

consideration of that event. There may be the desire to
recognize special needs or exigencies or to discharge moral
obligations. The gratification of such desires may be a
more compelling motive than any thought of death.
It is apparent that there can be no precise delimitation
of the transactions embraced within the conception of
transfers in "contemplation of death," as there can be
none in relation to fraud, undue influence, due process
of law, or other familiar legal concepts which are applicable to many varying circumstances. There is no escape
from the necessity of carefully scrutinizing the circumstances of each case to detect the dominant motive of the
donor in the light of his bodily and mental condition, and
thus give effect to the manifest purpose of the statute.
We think that the Government is right in its criticism
of the narrowness of the rule laid down by the Court of
Claims, in requiring that there be a condition "creating
a reasonable fear that death is near at hand," and that
"such reasonable fear or apprehension" must be "the
only cause of the transfer." It is sufficient if contemplation of death be the inducing cause of the transfer whether
or not death is believed to be near. But it does not appear that the decision of the court rests upon the limitation thus expressed. The court did not rely merely upon
the fact that at the time of the transfers decedent considered that he had recovered from his former illness and
believed the assurances given him by his physician that
he need have no fear of its recurrence or any "anxiety
whatever about his state of health." That fact was manifestly important, but, in addition to that, the court held
that "the immediate and moving cause of the transfers
was the carrying out of a policy, long followed by decedent
in dealing with his children, of making liberal gifts to
them during his lifetime." The court regarded the transfers in question as "a continuation and final consummation of such policy," saying "that this was the motive

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

which actuated the decedent in making these transfers
seems unquestioned." In the view of the court as thus
explicitly stated, not only was there no fear at the time of
the transfers that death was near at hand, but the motive
for the transfers brought them within the category of those
which, as described by the Government, are intended by
the donor "to accomplish some purpose desirable to him
if he continues to live." In the presence of such a motive, appropriately found, and of the underlying facts
which have been expressly found, there would be no
ground for a reversal of the judgment merely because of
an inaccuracy in the general statement as to the meaning
of the statutory phrase.
The only difficulty presented by the record is that this
statement with respect to the motive of decedent appears
in the opinion of the court and not in its findings of fact.
We are not at liberty to refer to the opinion for additional
findings. The findings of fact of the Court of Claims are
to be treated like the verdict of a jury. 5 We cannot add
to them, or modify them, but the absence of the finding
of an ultimate fact does not require a reversal of the judgment if the circumstantial facts as found are such that the
ultimate fact follows from them as a necessary inference."°
It is evident that the court did not consider the statements in its opinion, which we have quoted, as additional
findings of fact, but as an argument with respect to the
conclusion to be drawn from its findings. In its opinion,
the court was summarizing what it considered to be the
effect of its findings, and no useful purpose would be
served in returning the case for a specific finding that the
motive which impelled the decedent to make the transfers
"IStone v. United States, 164 U. S. 380, 382, 383; Crocker v.
United States, 240 U. S. 74, 78; Brothers v. United States, 250 U. S.
88, 93.
16 United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, 269, 270; Botany Mills v.

United States, 278 U. S. 282, 290.

SMITH v. SPRINGDALE PARK.
102

Counsel for Parties.

was precisely that which the court has thus definitely

stated. While, in accordance with proper practice and the
rule of this Court," the Court of Claims should have found
the ultimate fact, and we do not approve the method it
adopted, we are of the opinion that, in view of the findings
of fact actually made and the conclusion they import, the
judgment should be sustained. 8
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no

part in the considtration

or decision of this case.
SMITH, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. SPRINGDALE
AMUSEMENT PARK, LIMITED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 315. Argued March 17, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. Of patents Nos. 1,379,224 and 1,507,440, granted to Smith and relating to devices used in dog races, the former is held not infringed
and the latter void, on the authority of Smith v. Magic City
Kennel Club, 282 U. S. 784. P. 122.
2. Patent No. 1,507,439, to Smith, for an improvement in starting
cages for racing dogs, is void for want of invention. P. 123.
40 F. (2d) 173, affirmed.

CERITIORARI, 282 U. S. 823, to review a decree affirming
dismissal of the bill in a suit for infringement of patents.
See 39 F. (2d) 92.

Mr. Myer I. Goldberg argued the cause, and Messrs.
John E. Sater and E. Howard M'Caleb filed a brief for
petitioner.
Mr. Paul Bakewell for respondents.
" Rule 41.
18
Act of February 26, 1919, c. 48, 40 Stat. 1181; U. S. C., Tit. 28,
§ 391.

