UNITED STATES v. MUNSON S. S. LINE.

43

Sy1llhus.

35

diversified car supply for the shipment of coal and lumber;
it suggests the possibility of failure of operation from

various causes, that under some circumstances competition
operates to stimulate better service and that reasonable
competition may be in the public interest. Construction
of Lines in Eastern Oregon, 111 I. C. C. 3, 37. Construction of Line by Wenatchee Southern Ry., 90 I. C. C. 237,
257.
The facts stated in the report are sustained by the evi.
dence and, under the Act, they are plainly sufficient to
support the order.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. MUNSON STEAMSHIP LINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 85.

Argued March 2, 1931.-Decided March 23, 1931.

1. A carrier by water need not file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission its tariffs on interstate shipments initiated by rail if
the rail and water carriage, though practically continuous, is not
under a common control or management, or pursuant to a common
arrangement between the rail and water carriers. Interstate Commerce Act, § 6 (1) (a). P. 46.
2. A common arrangement is not to be inferred from circumstances
which are consistent with the independence permitted water carriers by the statute. P. 47.
3. A " common arrangement" did not exist in this case, where the
water carrier, although it advised rail carriers of the saiings of its
ships, of the place where goods would be received and of its charges
for water transportation, and although it paid the rail charges on
goods received and collected them, with its own charges, from
ultimate consignees, nevertheless maintained the independence of
its own transportation by having its separate rates, its separate
contracts for transportation, and its direct instructions from
shippers. Id.

OCTOBER TERM.
Opinion of the Court.

W93O.
283 U.S.

4. The water carrier did not bring about a "common arrangement "
with connecting rail carriers by publishing to railroads and shippers the method and terms of its services. P. 48.
37 F. (2d) 681, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 715, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment of
the District Court refusing a writ of mandamus sought
by the Government at the request of the Interstate Commerce Commission to compel the Steamship Company to
file schedules of rates.

Assistant to the Attorney General O'Brian, with
whom Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Charles H.
Weston, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and
Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief, for the United
States.
The successive receipt and forwarding of freight in interstate commerce by two or more connecting carriers,
under any arrangement by which they mutually facilitate
continuous shipments over their lines in the same way
as freight is transported on through bills of lading, is evidence of a.common arrangement within the meaning of
the statute. This view is supported by Cincinnati, N. 0.
& T. P. Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162
U. S. 184, and Baer Bros. v. Denver & R. G. R. Co., 233
U. S.479.
Mr. W. Calvin Chesnut, with whom Messrs. Frank Lyon
and Irving L. Evans were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Government instituted this proceeding, at the request of the Interstate Commerce Commission, under
§ 20, subdivision (9), of the Interstate Commerce Act,'
for a mandamus to compel the Munson Steamship Line
1

U. S. Code, Tit. 49, § 20 (9).

UNITED STATES v. MUNSON S. S. LINE.
43

45

Opinion of the Court.

to file schedules covering rates and charges for transportation of goods by water from Baltimore, Maryland, to ports
in Florida, upon the ground that the property was being
transported partly by rail and partly by water under a
common arrangement for continuous carriage and shipment from interior points to the Florida ports. The respondent's answer alleged that the transportation on its
part consisted of an independent water movement with respect to which the filing of tariffs was not required. On
a trial before the court and a jury, the District Judge directed a verdict for the respondent, 33 F. (2d) 211, and the
judgment entered accordingly was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 37 F. (2d) 681. The Government was
granted a writ of certiorari.
The facts, as found by the courts below upon evidence
substantially undisputed, may be summarized as follows:
The respondent operates a line of steamers from Baltimore, Maryland, to Jacksonville and Miami, Florida. It
accepts from rail carriers at Baltimore goods which have
been transported from inland points and carries them to
the Florida ports. The transportation is not covered by
through bills of lading or by through or joint rates, and
there is no agreement for the division, and no customary
division, of rates between the respondent and the rail carriers. The goods are shipped by rail to Baltimore in care
of, or with direction to notify, the respondent, and the
name of the ultimate consignee in Florida is noted on the
rail bill of lading. That bill shows Baltimore as the destination of the shipment. The shipper sends the rail bill
of lading to the respondent with instructions as to the
ultimate consignee. Upon the arrival of the goods at
Baltimore, the rail carrier sends an arrival notice to the
respondent; the latter advises the rail carrier of the ship
which will transport the goods to Florida, and the goods
are delivered to the respondent. The rail bill of lading is
surrendered to the rail carrier, the charges of that carrier,
unless they have been prepaid, are paid by the respond-

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

ent, which then issues its own bill of lading to the shipper.
specifying its freight rate for the transportation of the
goods by water from Baltimore to the point of destination
in accordance with the separate advice which the respondent has received from the shipper. Upon delivery of the
goods in Florida, the respondent collects from the consignee its own charges and also the rail charges which it
has advanced, but the latter are collected, not as agent for
or under any agreement with, the rail carrier, but because
they have been advanced as an incident to the carrying
out of the contract between the respondent and the
shipper.
The question relates solely to the application of § 6 (1)
of the Interstate Commerce Act providing for the filing
of tariffs with the Interstate Commerce Commission. The
requirement of the Shipping Act 2 with which the respondent is said to have complied, as to filing tariffs with the
United States Shipping Board, is not involved. Nor is
any question presented under § 6 (13)1 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, added by the Panama Canal Act. The
provision of § 6 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act applies to common carriers as these are described in § 1 of
that Act, and the particular description with which we are
here concerned is found in subdivision (1) (a) of that
section relating to common carriers engaged in
"(a) The transportation of passengers or property
wholly by railroad, or partly by railroad and partly by
water when both are used under a common control, management, or arrangement for a continuous carriage or
shipment."
2 U. S. Code, Tit. 46, § 817.
'U. S. Code, Tit. 49, § 6 (13).
'Act of August 24, 1912, c.390, 37 Stat. 560, 568. See Chicago.
Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 274 U. S.29, 36;
United States v. New York Central R. Co., 272 U. S.457, 462.
5
U. S. Code, Tit. 49, § 1 (1) (a). Compare Act of February 4,
1887, c.104, § 1, 24 Stat. 379; Act of June 29, 1906, c.3591, § 1, 34

UNITED STATES v. MUNSON S. S. LINE.
43

47

Opinion of the Court.

The Government concedes that the respondent was not
required to file tariffs with the Commission "unless it was
engaged in continuous interstate rail and water shipments
pursuant to a common control, management, or arrangement" and that "there was no common tontrol or management between respondent and the connecting railroads." The question is thus the narrow one whether there.
was a "common arrangement" for the rail and water
shipment within the meaning of the statute.
It is apparent that a mere practical continuity in the
transportation is not enough, as the question under the
statute is not simply whether there was a continuous carriage or shipment, but whether that carriage or shipment
was pursuant to a common arrangement.' The provision
of the statute, expressing a distinction in the policy of the
Congress with respect to water transportation, clearly
indicates that it is permissible for a water carrier, receiving at its port a shipment which has been carried by rail
from an interior point, to keep its own carriage distinct
and independent. While a common arrangement may exist without the issue of a through bill of lading or any particular formality,7 it is not to be inferred from circumstances which are entirely consistent with the independence which the statute recognizes. In this instance, the
facts show that the respondent undertook to maintain its
own carriage as distinct and independent by having its
separate contract, its independent rate, its direct instructions from the shipper as to its own transportation. The
fact that the respondent advised the rail carrier of the
Stat. 584; Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 7, 36 Stat. 539, 544, 545;
Transportation Act, 1920, § 400, 41 Stat. 456, 474.
'See Ex parte Koehler, 30 Fed. 867, 869, 870; Mutual Transit Co.
v. United States, 178 Fed. (C. C. A. 2d) 664, 666, 667.
'Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pac. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184, 193; Baer Brothers Mercantile Co.
v. Denver & Rio Grande R. Co., 233 U. S. 479, 491.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Statement of the Case.

283 U.S.

sailings of its ships, the place where goods would be received, and the amount of its charges for the water transportation, manifestly did not constitute a common arrangement with the railroad for that transportation. The
respondent could take delivery and pay the rail charges
upon delivery without sacrificing its right to make, as it
did make, its own separate contract directly with the shipper pursuant to which the goods were received and the
payment made. The Government stresses the fact that
circulars were issued by the railroads as to the respondent's method of shipping and that shippers were generally
informed as to the way in which shipments from interior
points destined to Florida ports would be handled. But
this information merely gave the facts and did not alter
the transaction. The respondent did not forfeit its independence merely by making its service convenient, still
less by advising both the railroads and shippers of the
terms of its service.
Judgment affirmed.
PHILIPPIDES v. DAY, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 92.

Argued March 2, 1931.-Decided March 23, 1931.

An alien who arrived in this country as a seaman after the effective
date of the Immigration Act of 1924, and deserted, and who remained here longer than permitted by the regulations under that
Act, may be deported after, as well as within, the three years
after entry. P. 50.
37 F. (2d) 1015, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

281 U. S. 716, to review a judgment refus-

ing petitioner's discharge on habeas corpus.

