OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Syllabus.

283U.S.

assaults of any insolvent publisher who may have purpose and sufficient capacity to contrive and put into effect a scheme or program for oppression, blackmail or
extortion.

The judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McRE yNOLDS, and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND concur in this
opinion.

UNITED STATES v. EQUITABLE TRUST COM-

PANY OF NEW YORK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 21.

Argued December 1, 2, 1930.--Decided June 1, 1931.

1. It is a general rule in courts of equity that a trust fund which has
been recovered or preserved through their intervention may be
charged with the costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney's

fees, incurred in that behalf; and this rule is deemed specially
applicable where the fund belongs to an infant or incompetent who
is represented in the litigation by a next friend. P. 744.
2. A full-blood Creek Indian who was insane and under an Oklahoma
guardian, owned an allotment which under the Act of May 27,
1908, was subject to restrictions against "alienation, contract to
sell, power of attorney, or any other encumbrance." It was leased
by the guardian, with the approval of the probate court and the
Secretary of the Interior, for oil and gas extraction. A large fund,
accumulated from the lease royalties, came into the hands of the
Secretary, in trust for the Indian, and was subsequently distributed
upon a written request in the name of the Indian and bearing his
thumb-mark, but which he was incapable of understanding and
which was procured by fraud. Unable to induce remedial action by
the Secretary and the Attorney General, the guardian, as next friend
of the Indian, brought a suit, in which the Department of Justice at
length took part, and which resulted in recovery of a large part
of the fund. Held:
(1) That the next friend and attorneys for the Indian were
entitled to reasonable allowances for services and expenses, even if
the statutory restrictions upon the land applied to the fund. P. 745.

U. S. v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
738

739

Opinion of the Court.

(2) The United States, by its intervention and participation, impliedly consented to such allowances. P. 745.
(3) The allowances to attorneys should not extend to services
in other litigation, and should be adjusted to the hazard of the
case, the nature and extent of the services, the amount recovered
and the special protection due to a mental incompetent. P. 746.
34 F. (2d) 916, modified and affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 280 U. S. 550, to review a decree which
sustained, with reductions, allowances made by the District Court for services and expenses in a suit to recover a
fund belonging to an Indian. See also, 21 F. (2d) 325;
26 id. 350; 278 U. S. 626.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Attorney General Mitchell and Messrs. Nat M. Lacy and
Pedro Capo-Rodriguez were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. John W. Davis argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents. Messrs. Carroll G. Walter, Rayburn L.
Foster, Almond D. Cochran, and Harrison Tweed also
filed briefs for respondents.
MR. JusTicE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This writ brings under review a supplemental decree
making allowances for attorney fees, expenses, etc., in a
suit, instituted by a next friend, to recover and preserve a
trust fund belonging to Jackson Barnett, an incompetent
Creek Indian, and directing that the allowances be paid
from that fund. The allowances are challenged by the
United States as in conflict with existing restrictions on
the disposal of the trust fund, and as excessive.
Barnett is a full-blood Creek Indian, so enrolled, who
received an allotment out of the Creek tribal lands when
they were divided in severalty pursuant to congressional

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

legislation.' By that legislation and an amendatory act '
his right and title under the allotment and the ensuing
patent were subjected to restrictions against "alienation,
contract to sell, power of attorney, or any other encumbrance" prior to April 26, 1931,' save in virtue of a full
or partial removal of the restrictions by the Secretary of
the Interior, and against leasing for oil, gas or other mining purposes, save with the approval of that officer.
In 1912 the probate court of the county of Barnett's
residence, in Oklahoma, adjudged him a mental incompetent and appointed a guardian of his estate. Later
in that year Barnett and the guardian (the former described as "an incompetent,") with the approval of that
court and of the Secretary of the Interior, executed to
one Bartlett an oil and gas lease of the land allotted to
Barnett. The lease required that the royalties be paid
to a local representative of the Secretary of the Interior
and held for Barnett's benefit.
Royalties came in rapidly. In 1920 they had produced
in the hands of the Secretary's local representative a
fund of about $1,000,000, after various small sums had
been turned over to the Oklahoma guardian for Barnett's
support. Near that time the accumulated fund was
taken over by the Secretary, invested in U. S. Liberty
Bonds and held by him for Barnett's use.
News of Barnett's wealth became widespread and,
thereafter, as was found by the district court, he was
kidnapped by an adventuress who took him to two States
other than that of his residence and had him go through
a marriage ceremony with her in both; was harassed and
annoyed by her attorneys and their allies; and on DeActs March 1, 1901, c. 676, 31 Stat. 861, and June 30, 1902, c.
1323, 32 Stat. 500.
'Act May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312.
'Extended to April 26. 1956, by Act May 10, 1928, c. 517, 45
Stat. 495.

U. S. v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
738

741

Opinion of the Court.

cember 15, 1922, was induced by them to put his thumb
mark upon an instrument, not understood by him, requesting the Secretary of the Interior to distribute the
greater part of the trust fund in the latter's custody by
giving $550,000 in Liberty Bonds to the wife, and a like
sum in such bonds to the American Baptist Home Mission Society on condition that it pay for his use $20,000
a year during the remainder of his life. Barnett was then
about 73 years of age and the designated annuity was less
than the yearly interest on the bonds to be given to that
society.
On February 1, 1923, the Secretary of the Interior approved that instrument, and soon after approving it he
distributed the $1,100,000 in Liberty Bonds as requested.
After the distribution was effected the wife took Barnett to California, and on her application a court of that
State, in 1924, adjudged him an incompetent, incapable
of caring for his person or estate, and appointed a
guardian.
The Oklahoma guardian, on learning of the distribution,
invoked the assistance of reputable attorneys with a view
to asserting and protecting Barnett's interest in the bonds
thus separated from his trust fund. These attorneys acquainted themselves with Barnett's mental incompetency
and the other facts bearing on the validity of the distribution, brought the facts to the attention of the Secretary
of the Interior and earnestly and repeatedly requested
that officer to take steps to secure a restoration of the
bonds to the trust fund. The Secretary declined to take
such action, insisted the distribution was valid and must
stand, and refused to permit any moneys under his control and belonging to Barnett to be used in an effort to
recover the bonds. The attorneys then laid the matter
before the Department of Justice and urged the institution of suits on the part of the United States for the revocation of the distribution and the return of the bonds,

742

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

but this request, like that to the Secretary of the Interior,
failed.
Thereafter, on January 22, 1925, the attorneys brought
a suit in equity in the name of Barnett, by Elmer S.
Bailey as next friend, against the American Baptist Home
Mission Society and others to cancel the gift to that society and to protect and preserve Barnett's interest in
the bonds so given and the income therefrom. Bailey,
the next friend, was the Oklahoma guardian who had invoked the assistance of the attorneys. The suit was
brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Other suits relating to the
other bonds were brought elsewhere, but they are without
bearing here.
After the suit was begun the Secretary of the Interior
continued to oppose the effort to annul the distributionand this notwithstanding he was advised in a letter of
February 9, 1925, from the then Attorney General, Mr.
Stone, to whom he had stated his opposition two days
before, that the distribution appeared to be entirely unauthorized and that the Government was in duty bound
to use its best efforts to assist in recovering the bonds.
Mr. Stone retired from the office of Attorney General
soon after the date of that letter, and thus was unable
to carry his view into effect.
On January 20, 1926, the succeeding Attorney General,
at the solicitation of the next friend and his attorneys,
sought and obtained leave for the United States to intervene in the suit and thereby participate in the effort to
effect a recovery of the bonds and their income for Barnett's benefit. After the intervention was accomplished
the attorneys for the next friend and the solicitors for
the United States harmoniously prosecuted the cause to a
successful conclusion. All rendered commendable service, but in many particulars the leading part and major
burden fell to the attorneys for the next friend.

U. S. v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
738

Opinion of the Court.

On the final hearing the court found that Barnett was
illiterate and so stunted and undeveloped mentally that
he was incapable of managing his own affairs or of understanding a transaction like the one in question; that
the wife and her attorneys and allies, with selfish motives,
induced him to place his thumb mark on the instrument
requesting the distribution; and that he did this without
any real comprehension or knowledge of what he was doing. The court also ruled that the Secretary of the
Interior could not by his approval give validity to a gift
which the apparent donor by reason of mental incompetency was incapable of understanding or making; that
the defendants, although blameless, acquired no property
or beneficial interest through the purported gift and must
be regarded as holding the bonds and the income therefrom as the property of Barnett; and that as the bonds
were wrongly taken from the trust fund in the custody
of the Secretary of the Interior, they and the income
from them (less such allowances as the court should require to be paid therefrom for services and disbursements
connected with the recovery) should be restored to that
fund and there held for Barnett agreeably to applicable
laws of Congress.' A decree to that effect was entered
and an attempted appeal by one of the defendants proved
of no avail.5
The court later on, pursuant to a reservation in the
decree, took up the question of what, if any, allowances
should be made for services and disbursements. Applications for such allowances were made by the attorneys
for the defendants, by the next friend and by his attorneys. All were opposed by the United States. The
court rejected the application of the attorneys for the
defendants and by a supplemental decree allowed to the
next friend $7,500 for his services and allowed to his at'21 F. (2d) 325.

'26 F. (2d) 350; 278 U. S. 626.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

torneys $184,881.08 for their services and $4,282.93 to
reimburse them for out-of-pocket expenses. There were
also directions that these allowances be paid out of the
fund which had been the subject of the litigation and
that the fund as thus reduced be restored to the custody
of the Secretary of the Interior conformably to the prior
decree. On an appeal by the United States the Circuit
Court of Appeals reduced the allowance for the services
of the attorneys for the next friend -to $100,000 and susfained the other allowances.' This Court then granted
a petition by the United States for a further review on
a writ of certiorari.
It is a general rule in courts of equity that a trust fund
which has been recovered or preserved through their
intervention may be charged with the costs and expenses,
including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred in that behalf; and this rule is deemed specially applicable where
the fund belongs to an infant or incompetent who is represented in the litigation by a next friend. "Such a rule of
practice," it has been said, "is absolutely essential to the
safety and security of a large number of persons who are
entitled to the protection of the law-indeed, stand most
in need of it-but who are incompetent to know when
they are wronged, or to ask for protection or redress."
Counsel for the United States concede the general rule,
but regard it as inapplicable here. They assume that Barnett's fund was restricted in the sense that it was not
subject to disposal in any form or for any purpose, save
with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior; and
from this they argue that the court, by charging the fund
with the costs and expenses and requiring their payment
therefrom, would be disposing of a part of the fund in
violation of applicable restrictions.
34 F. (2d) 916.
'36 N. J. Eq. 456, 458; 1 Daniell's Chancery P1. & Pr., 6th Am. ed.,
*pp. 69, 79. And see Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527, 532, et
seq.; Central Railroad & Banking Co. v. Pettus, 113 U. S. 116, 123.

U. S. v. EQUITABLE TRUST CO.
738

745

Opinion of the Court.

We make the assumption that the restrictions had substantially the same application to the fund that they had
to the land from which it was derived, but we think the
argument carries them beyond their purpose and the fair
import of their words. Without doubt they were intended to be comprehensive and to afford effective protection to the Indian allottees; but we find no ground for
thinking they were intended to restrain courts of equity
when dealing with situations like that disclosed in this
litigation from applying the rules which experience has
shown to be essential to the adequate protection of a
wronged cestui que trust, such as Barnett was shown to
be.
The refusal of the Secretary of the Interior, and the
failure of the Department of Justice, to take any steps
to correct the wrong amply justified the institution, in
1925, of the suit in the name of Barnett by the next
friend. The United States intervened only after the suit
had proceeded for a full year. Its purpose in intervening,
as shown by the record, was not to supplant or exclude
the next friend and his attorneys, but to aid in establishing and protecting Barnett's interest in the fund in question. In its petition of intervention it prayed that this
fund "after deducting the reasonable expenses of this
litigation" be restored to the custody of the Secretary of
the Interior. Later on it acquiesced in an order allowing
the next friend's attorneys $3,000 from the fund to meet
expenses about to be incurred. In all the proceedings
which followed the intervention it co6perated with the
next friend to the single end that the diverted fund be
recovered for Barnett's benefit. And both were satisfied
with the main decree when it was rendered.
When all is considered, we are brought to the conclusion that the United States by its intervention and participation in the suit consented, impliedly at least, that
reasonable allowances be made from the fund, under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

rule before stated, for the services and expenses of the
next friend and his attorneys. "
We come then to the question whether the allowances
were excessive. Counsel for the United States now confine their criticism to the one for the attorneys' services.
The District Court apparently included some services
in other litigation, particularly in Oklahoma. But the
Circuit Court of Appeals excluded them, and we think
its action was right. The nature of the other litigation
was such that it could neither disturb the prosecution of
this suit nor affect the outcome.
While the Circuit Court of Appeals reduced the allowance to $100,000, it stated that $50,000 would have been
enough but for the hazard. We think the hazard was
small and that the allowance should have been $50,000.
The material facts were few and demonstrable; and the
applicable legal principles were fairly certain. Of. course,
there was need for intelligent research and action; but
otherwise there was not much hazard. While the record
shows that these attorneys did their part well, it also
shows that, after the intervention of the United States,
the attorneys of the latter contributed much helpful service. The fund which was recovered was large, and of
course this had a bearing on what was reasonable, but
it gave no license to go further.
The fund belonged to an Indian who was mentally incompetent. He had no voice in selecting the attorneys
and could have none in fixing their fees. Thus, justice to
him required that special care be taken to confine the fees
to what was reasonable. And by applying that standard,
justice would also be done to the attorneys.
As before indicated, we think the allowance of $100,000
unreasonably high and that to bring it within the standard
of reasonableness it should be reduced to $50,000.
'The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, 154; United States v. The Thecla, 266
U. S. 328, 339-340. And see New York Dock Co. v. The Poznan,
274 U. S. 117, 121.

MOTT v. UNITED STATES.
738

747

Statement of the Case.

The supplemental decree is modified accordingly and
as so modified is affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

MOTT v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 78. Argued December 2, 1930.-Decided June 1, 1931.
1. The United States may sue in behalf of an Indian ward for the
purpose of asserting and enforcing his interest in property diverted
from a trust fund while being administered by the Government's
officers. P. 750.
2. Authority of the Secretary of the Interior to withhold his approval,
necessary to make good a lease of a restricted Indian allotment,
includes the lesser authority to give his approval upon condition
that the royalties from the lease shall be paid to a representative
of the Secretary in trust for the Indian and shall be disbursed only
with the Secretary's sanction. P. 751.
3. A fund held by the Secretary of the Interior for a full-blood Creek
Indian, which was derived from royalties on the lease of the
Indian's restricted allotment (Act of May 27, 1908) and which is
held by the Secretary in trust for the Indian and not to be disbursed without the Secretary's consent, is not subject to be
disposed of by the Secretary merely at his own volition. P. 751.
4. Where the Secretary disbursed such a fund upon a written request
which purported to come from the Indian but which the Indian
was mentally incompetent to make or understand, the disbursement
was unauthorized. P. 752.
5. In such a case, there is no ground for contending that the Secretary could supply the necessary intent for the incompetent or that
there is in the transaction an implied finding of competency that
may not be questioned in the courts. P. 752.
37 F. (2d) 860, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 281 U. S. 714, to review a decree which
reversed a decree, 33 F. (2d) 340, dismissing the bill in a

