EAST OHIO GAS CO. v. TAX COMM.

465

Syllabus.

EAST OHIO GAS CO. v. TAX COMMISSION OF

OHIO

ET AL.

&PPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 453.

Argued April 22, 23, 1931.-Decided May 18, 1931.

1. A State can neither lay a tax on the act of engaging in interstate
commerce nor on gross receipts therefrom. P. 470.
2. While a State may require payment of an occupation tax by one
engaged in both intrastate and interstate commerce, the exaction
in order to be valid must be imposed solely on account of the
intrastate business without enhancement because of the interstate
business done, and it must appear that one engaged exclusively in
the interstate business would not be subject to the imposition and
that the taxpayer could discontinue the intrastate business without
withdrawing also from the interstate business. Id.
3. The transportation of natural gas from wells outside of a State by
the pipe-lines of producing companies to the state line, and thence,
by means of the distributing company's high pressure transmission
lines to their connections with its local systems, is . essentially
national-not local-in character, and is interstate commerce within
as well as without the State. Id.
4. The mere fact that the title or the custody of the gas passes while
it is en route from State to State is not determinative of the
question where interstate commerce ends. Id.
5. Natural gas, purchased by an Ohio corporation for supply to its
local consumers, was piped into, and distributed within, the State at
high pressures. When it reached the company's local supply mains,
the pressure was greatly reduced and the volume of the gas was
greatly expanded. It there divided into many thousands of relatively tiny streams that entered the small service lines connecting
the service mains with the pipes on the consumers' premises, and,
so segregated in those lines and pipes, it remained in readiness, or
moved forward, to serve as needed. Held:
(1) That the treatment and division of the large compressed volume of gas is like the breaking of an original package, after shipment in interstate commerce, in order that its contents may be
treated, prepared for tale and sold at retail. P. 471.
(2) The furnishing of the gas to the consumers in this way is not
interstate commerce, but a business of purely local concern ex80705-31

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Argument for Appellant.
clusively
tionally
receipts.
6. Opinion

283 U.S.

within the jurisdiction of the State, which may constitube subjected to an excise tax based on the gross
Id.
in Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Comm., 252

U. S. 23, disapproved, to the extent that it is in conflict with the
decision here. P. 472.
43 F. (2d) 170, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges refusing a preliminary injunction and dismissing
the bill, in a suit to restrain collection of a state tax.

Mr. William B. Cockley, with whom Messrs. Thomas
H. Hogsett and Thomas M. Harman were on the brief,
for appellant.
The interstate movement continues to consumers' appliances. In Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm.,
252 U. S. 23, it was expressly decided that the. local distribution of natural gas by an importing company is an
integral part of interstate commerce. This is controlling.
Moreover, it is supported both by the principle that when
an interstate character has been acquired it continues
until the commodity "reaches the point where the
parties originally intended that the movement should
finally end " (Illinois R. Co. v. Railroad Comm., 236 U. S.
157, 163,) and by the principle that where "the normal,
contemplated and followed course is a transmission as
continuous and rapid as science can make it," it is interstate throughout. Western Union v. Foster, 247 U. S.
105, 113. The intended destination from the beginning
is appellant's consumers, and the transmission is as continuous and rapid as science can make it. See Southern
Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632, 639; and Binderup v.
Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291, 309.
There is no logical change of interstate movement until
the gas reaches consumers' appliances. Suggested analogies that bulk is broken, and the gas stored or processed,

EAST OHIO GAS CO. v. TAX COMM.
465

Opinion of the Court.

when it passes from transmission to distribution lines of
the importing company are inapplicable and contrary to
facts. In re PennsylvaniaGas Co., 225 N. Y. 397.
It is of no importance that the company's consumers do
not expressly contract for West Virginia gas. Lemke v.
Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; Shafer v. Farmers Grain
Co., 268 U. S. 176; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256
U. S. 642.
Mr. Gilbert Bettman, Attorney General of Ohio, with
whom Messrs. L. F. Laylin and William J. Ford were on
the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE

BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellees, acting under the tax laws of Ohio, assessed
against appellant additional excise taxes for 1927, 1928
and 1929. The latter brought this suit to restrain collection on the ground that, when construed to cover the
amounts demanded, the state legislation is repugnant to
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Plaintiff applied to the court consisting of three judges for a
temporary injunction; and, pursuant to stipulation made
at the hearing, the case was submitted for final determination upon an agreed statement of facts. The court announced an opinion, 43 F. (2d) 170, sustaining the
state enactments and entered its decree dismissing the
complaint.
Under the Ohio Code every corporation engaged in the
business of supplying to consumers within the State natural gas for light, heat or power is a natural gas company,
ยง 5416, and is required to report to the tax commission,
ยง 5470. The latter is directed annually to determine the
entire gross receipts of such company, for the year ending
on the then next preceding first day of May, excluding

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

therefrom all receipts "derived wholly from interstate
business," ยง 5475, and to certify the amount so determined
to the auditor of state, ยง 5481. He is directed to charge
each such company "a sum in the nature of an excise tax,
for the privilege of carrying on its intra-state business, to
be computed on the amount so fixed and reported by the
commission as the gross receipts of such company on its
intra-state business . . .by taking one and thirty-five
one-hundredths per cent. of all such gross receipts . . .
5483.
Appellant, an Ohio corporation, is engaged as a public
utility in the business of furnishing natural gas to consumers in more than 50 municipalities in that State.
During the years in question it obtained approximately 25
per cent. of its supply from its own Ohio wells, 72 per
cent. from the Hope Natural Gas Company of West Virginia and 3 per cent. from the Peoples Natural Gas Company of Pennsylvania. The West Virginia gas is gathered
to a station in that State, there freed from gasoline vapors
and pumped at a pressure of from 200 to 300 pounds per
square inch into transmission lines which connect, at the
boundary between the States, with appellant's high pressure transmission lines. By means of these the gas is
transmitted to a station in Stark county whence it is
taken by other lines to pressure reducing stations. The
lines there connect with distribution lines in which is
maintained pressure of from 30 to 50 pounds per square
inch and which are a part of the distribution system in
each.municipality served. From the latter the gas enters
the local supply mains wherein pressure is reduced to
that necessary-a few ounces per square inch-to carry
the gas through the service pipes extending to the premises of consumers and suitably to supply their burners.
The consumers control the flow of gas on their premises.
The Pennsylvania gas is collected, treated, compressed
for transmission, delivered to appellant at the state line

EAST OHIO GAS CO. v. TAX COMM.
465

Opinion of the Court.

and by it transported, relieved of pressure and conducted
through such mains and service pipes to consumers' appliances precisely as is West Virginia gas. The Ohio gas
is gathered and conducted from the fields in that State to
the high pressure distribution lines and thereafter treated
and brought to consumers as is the gas brought from the
other States. Appellant's contracts with consumers do
not specify any source from which it is to obtain gas.
To an extent not disclosed by the.record, appellant collects minimum charges for service and charges for readiness to serve without regard to the quantity of gas consumed. It furnishes to some communities exclusively gas
from outside the State, to some only that from Ohio and
to others a mixture of that from West Virginia and Ohio.
In accordance with the statute, as then construed by
the attorney general, appellant in its reports to the tax
commission for the years in question returned as receipts
from interstate business all sums collected from .customers
receiving only gas from wells outside Ohio, treated as intrastate earnings the receipts from those using only Ohio
gas, and apportioned between intrastate and interstate
business, on the relation of the quantity of each to the
total, receipts from those served by a mixture of Ohio
and other gas. The commission accepted that classification, and the taxes were computed and paid on that basis.
In 1930 appellees, construing the laws to require the inclusion of all receipts, without regard to the source of the
gas furnished, applied the prescribed rate to the amounts
theretofore treated as receipts from interstate business,
and demanded from appellant payment of the sums so
arrived at together with penalties prescribed for failure
to pay excise taxes when due.
The question is whether the state statute, construed to
include the amounts reported as receipts from interstate
business, operates directly to regulate or burden interstate
commerce.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

Admittedly the exaction is not a tax on property nor in
lieu of a property tax. The statute calls it, and in fact
it is, a tax for the privilege of carrying on intrastate business. Receipts from interstate business are expressly excluded from the calculation. It is elementary that a
State can neither lay a tax on the act of engaging in interstate commerce nor on gross receipts therefrom. Pullman
Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330, 338. New Jersey Tel.
.Co. v. Tax Board, 280 U. S. 338, 346. And, while a State
may require payment of an occupation tax by one engaged
in both intrastate and interstate commerce, the exaction
in order to be valid must be imposed solely on account of
the intrastate business without enhancement because of
the interstate business done, and it must appear that one
engaged exclusively in interstate business would not be
subject to the imposition and that the taxpayer could discontinue the intrastate business without withdrawing also
from the interstate business. Sprout v. South Bend, 277
U. S. 163, 170-171, and cases cited.
The transportation of gas from wells outside Ohio by
the lines of the producing companies to the state line and
thence by means of appellant's high pressure transmission
lines to their connection with its local systems is essentially national-not local-in character and is interstate
commerce within as well as without that State. The
mere fact that the title or the custody of the gas passes
while it is en route from State to State is not determinative of the question where interstate commerce ends.
Public Utilities Comm. v. Landon, 249 U. S. 239, 245.
Missouri v. Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298, 307-309.
Peoples Gas Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm., 270 U. S. 550, 554.
Public Util. Comm. v. Attleboro Co., 273 U. S. 83, 89.
But when the gas passes from the distribution lines into
the supply mains, it necessarily is relieved of nearly all
the pressure put upon it at the stations of the producing

EAST OHIO GAS CO. v. TAX COMM.
465

Opinion of the Court.

companies, its volume thereby is expanded to many times
what it was while in the high pressure interstate transmission lines, and it is divided into the many thousand
relatively tiny streams that enter the small service lines

connecting such mains with the pipes on the consumers'
premises. So segregated the gas in such service lines and
pipes remains in readiness or moves forward to serve as
needed. The treatment and division of the large compressed volume of gas is like the breaking of an original
package, after shipment in interstate commerce, in order
that its contents may be treated, prepared for sale and
sold at retail. State v. Flannelly, 96 Kan. 372, 383-384;
152 Pac. 22; W. Va. & Md. Gas Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm.,
134 Md. 137, 143-145; 106 Atl. 265. Cf. Atlantic Coast
Line v. Standard Oil Co., 275 U. S. 257, 269. Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat.419. Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.100.
It follows that the furnishing of gas to consumers in Ohio
municipalities by means of distribution plants to supply
the gas suitably for the service for which it is intended is
not interstate commerce but a business of purely local
concern exclusively within the jurisdiction of the State.
Appellant relies on Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public
Service Comm., 252 U. S. 23. There the question was
whether the New York commission had jurisdiction to
prescribe the rates to be charged local consumers of gas
transported to that State from Pennsylvania. This court,
following the findings of the highest court of New York
(225 N. Y. 397, 403-404; 122 N. E. 260), held that the entire movement of the gas was interstate commerce and
that, in the absence of contrary regulation by the Congress, the state commission had jurisdiction to prescribe
such rates. The theory on which that conclusion was
reached is not wholly consistent with the views expressed
in Public Utilities Comm. v. Landon, supra, and in Missouri v. Kansas Gas Co., supra, In the former the court

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

said (p. 245): "Interstate movement [of natural gas being transported from State to State] ended when the gas
passed into local mains." In the latter, it was said
(p. 308): ' With the delivery of the gas [transported from
one State to another] to the distributing companies
. . . the interstate

movement

ends.' Its subsequent

sale and delivery by these companies to their customers
at retail is intrastate business and subject to state regulation. . . . In such case the effect, en interstate commerce, if there be any, is indirect and incidental
[p. 309]. The business of supplying, on demand, local
consumers is a local business, even though the gas be
brought from another State and drawn for distribution
directly from interstate mains; and this is so whether the
local distribution be made by the transporting company
or by independent distributing companies. In such case
the local interest is paramount, and the interference with
interstate commerce, if any, indirect and of minor importance." It does not appear that there were presented,
in Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Serv. Comm., to the
state court or here the considerations on which it is held
that interstate commerce ends and intrastate business begins when gas flowing through pipe lines from outside the
State passes into local distribution systems for delivery
to consumers in the municipalities served. But, however
that may be, the opinion in that case must be disapproved
to the extent that it is in conflict with our decision here.
The Ohio statute does not purport to affect interstate
commerce. The specified excise taxes are laid for the
privilege of carrying on intrastate business. The amounts
were calculated on gross receipts derived wholly from appellant's intrastate business notwithstanding the gas used
had moved in interstate commerce.
Decree affirmed.

