OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Syllabus.

283 U. S.

audion amplifiers were used. * August 20, 1912, the
earliest date claimed for Langmuir, was rejected, rightly,
we think, by the District Court, which held that Langmuir
was anticipated by Arnold in November, 1912. But
before the earlier date De Forest sought and obtained a
high vacuum in the audions used as amplifiers, and observed that when the vacuum was too low the blue glow
effect occurred at from 15 to 20 volts. In order to secure
higher voltages from the audions used as amplifiers and
to procure the requisite high vacuum, he had some of the
bulbs re-exhausted while super-heated. By August, 1912,
the Telegraph Company used De Forest amplifying
audions at 54 volts and, by November, they were used by
another at 67'A volts. This was possible only because
the tubes had thus been exhausted of gas, which would
otherwise have ionized with blue glow at from 20 to 30
volts. The vacuum was lower than that obtained by later
and improved methods; but the effect of high vacuum
upon voltages above the point of ionization was then
known, and the knowledge was thus availed of in practice.
Whether De Forest knew the scientific explanation of it is
unimportant, since he did know and use the device and
employ the methods, which produced the desired results,
and which are the device and methods of the patent.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY CO v. DELMAR CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 563. Argued April 30, May 1, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.
An interstate rail tariff offering a through rate between points which
are connected by two routes of the carrier, one more circuitous
than the other, should be construed as applicable only to the shorter
* The opinion is here printed as amended by an order of Oct. 19,
1931, which will appear in Vol. 284.

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. DELMAR CO.
686

687

Opinion of the Court.

route, if the through rate is less than the rates applicable from the
same point of origin to intermediate points on the longer route so
that application of the through rate to the longer route would
involve the carrier in breaches of the long-and-short-haul clause
(§ 4) of the Interstate Commerce Act. P. 690.
43 F. (2d) 780, reversed.

CERTIORARI,

282 U. S. 836, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of
the District Court awarding reparations against the Railway Company for charges made on shipments of grain.
Mr. R. J. Hagman, with whom Mr. F. G. Dorety was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Fred W. Putnam, with whom Messrs. Frank TV.
Shaw, Orren E. Safford, Wilbur D. Shaw, and Sam W.
Campbell were on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. Daniel W. Knowlton and E. M. Reidy, by
special leave of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Interstate Commerce Commission awarded Delmar
Company reparation against the Great Northern Railway Company for certain charges made on shipments of
grain.' Suit was brought on the award and judgment
rendered against the railway by the District Court. On
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals that judgment
was affirmed.2 This Court granted certiorari.'
The pertinent facts are that numerous shipments of
grain originated at points on the line of the railway in
Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota. They were
originally billed to Minneapolis. After arrival there
they were reconsigned by the Delmar Company, in the
same cars, to Superior, Wis., where delivery was made.
The entire movement from the points of origin to Supe1 120

I. C. C. 530.

2

43 F. (2d) 780.

3 282 U. S. 836.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

rior was over the rails of the Great Northern. The shorter
route from the places of shipment to Superior is via Willmar. The longer, which the cars in question traveled,via Minneapolis,-involves passage through the congested railroad terminals in that city, with incident traffic
difficulties and delays not encountered on the more direct
one. The difference between the two in mileage from
the shipping points to Superior varies by from 12 to 23
per cent. The carrier collected its local rates from origin
points to Minneapolis, plus a proportional rate of 6.5
cents beyond. The combinations of rates so exacted were
higher than the through rates specified in the tariffs for
the transportation of grain from these points to Superior.
The Commission found that it had previously been the
custom to apply the through rate only upon shipments via
the direct route, and to apply the proportional rate beyond Minneapolis to such as were reconsigned at that
point. The advantage to the Delmar Company of originally consigning to that city and reconsigning to Superior
is that the former is a grain market, and the grain may be
sold en route and delivered at Minneapolis pursuant to
such sale, or reconsigned if not sold on its arrival.
It is conceded that the shipper had the right of reeonsignment without additional charge for that privilege, and
that the situation is the same as if the shipments had originally been billed to Superior via Minneapolis.
The Commission sustained the contention of the Delmar Company that the quoted through rates from points
of origin to Superior applied to shipments routed via
Minneapolis, since the tariff did not expressly restrict
their application to the shorter and more direct route via
Willmar. This finding was the basis of the award of
reparation.
The railway maintains that in the circumstances here
presented the tariff may not be so construed as to render
the specified through rate applicable to shipments by way
of Minneapolis. This would be contrary to established

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. DELMAR CO.

689

Opinion of the Court.

686

custom and would occasion violation of the long-andshort-haul clause of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The Commission has repeatedly decided that where
two or more routes are "open," which means that in the
judgment of the Commission none of them is unreasonably circuitous, the shipper has the option as to route, at
the quoted rate, in the absence of a contrary statement
in the tariff. Van Dusen Harrington Co. v. Chicago, M. &
St. P. Ry. Co., 47 I. C. C. 59; Meeds L. Co. v. Director General, 59 I. C. C. 243; Freeman Grain Co. v. Director General, 68 I. C. C. 559; Baker-Reid L. Co. v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 74 I. C. C. 489; Steinhardt & Kelly v. Erie
R. Co., 96 I. C. C. 229; Scott County Farm Bureau v.
Alabama & V. Ry. Co., 101 I. C. C. 357; Browne-Hinton
Wholesale Grocery Co. v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 102
I. C. C. 237; Northwestern Fruit Exchange v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 128 I. C. C. 538; Atwood Davis Sand Co. v.
Chicago N. W. Ry. Co., 136 I. C. C. 471. Here the difference is, in no instance, more than 23 per cent. It is
claimed that the longer route is more burdensome, due to
congestion at Minneapolis, but there is no definite evidence and no finding on this point. We cannot say that
there was error in the Commission's conclusion that the
longer route was not unreasonably circuitous.
It is undisputed that there are destinations on the railway's line between Minneapolis and Superior as to which
the rate from the points of origin, consisting of the local
rate to Minneapolis plus the proportional rate beyond
that city, is greater than the quoted through rate from
such points to Superior. Consequently if shipments
should be made to Superior via Minneapolis at the
through rate, they will be carried for less than would be
charged for similar shipments to these intermediate destinations. The railway insists that this would result in
violations of § 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act.' That
section is in part:
4U. S.C., Tit. 49,
80705*-31-44

§ 4 (1).

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

"It shall be unlawful for any common carrier . . . to
charge or receive any greater compensation in the aggregate for the transporation . . . of like kind of property,
for a shorter than for a longer distance over the same line
or route in the same direction, the shorter being included
within the longer distance, or to charge any greater com-.
pensation as a through rate than the aggregate of the intermediate rates subject to the provisions of this chapter,
but this shall not be construed as authorizing any common carrier within the terms of this chapter to charge or
receive as great compensation for a shorter as for a longer
distance:

.

.

The Commission decided that while the facts recited
would render the railway liable for the penalties prescribed by the Act, the tariff rate must be applied. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, under what we think was a
misapprehension of the facts, held no violation of § 4
would result. It said:
"That section applies to 'the same line or route in the
same direction, the shorter being included within the
longer distance.' As to these shipments, the shorter haul
is not included within the longer distance."
The quotation indicates a failure to note the fact that
the comparison of rates is made between points which are
all upon the longer of the two routes, and that the shorter
distance on that line is included within the longer distance to Superior. The Commission filed a brief in this
Court taking issue with the conclusion of the Court of
Appeals on this feature of the case.
The railway can transport the shipments over the
shorter and customary route without violating § 4; but
if the tariff is construed to require it to take them over
the longer route it must violate that section and incur the
resulting penalties. In this situation we think the tariff
should be construed as applying only to the shorter route,
and not as giving the shipper the option between the two

CHOTEAU v. BURNET.
686

Statement of the Case.

routes at the through rate.

This conclusion is in accord

with the principle that where two constructions of a
written contract are possible, preference will be given to
that which does not result in violation of law. Compare

Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 646, 685; Hobbs v. McLean,
117 U. S. 567, 576; In re Rose Co., 275 Fed. 409; Northern

Pac. Ry Co. v. St. Paul & Tacoma Lumber Co., 4 F. (2d)
359.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
CHOTEAU v. BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 81. Argued January 28, 29, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.
1. The income received from the United States by an Indian, a
member of the Osage Tribe, as his share of the royalties from oil
and gas leases made by the tribe and approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, under the Act of June 28, 1906, is subject to
federal income tax, under the Revenue Act of 1918.
So held, where the Indian had received a certificate of competency; where his allotted lands, except the homestead, were
taxable and alienable; and where the income, (derived from leases
of lands which had been purchased for the tribe with tribal funds
and subsequently allotted, reserving the oil and gas to the tribe,)
belonged to him without restriction. Pp. 693, 694.
2. Such income is not a gift; nor is it immune from the federal tax
as an instrumentality of government. P. 696.
38 F. (2d) 976, affirmed.
CERTIOmRI,

281 U. S. 714, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 14 B. T. A.
1254, which sustained a determination of deficiency in
income taxes.

