MAAS & WALDSTEIN CO. v. U. S.
570

Syllabus.

erations of substance rather than of form should lead us
to choose that one which would restrict the doctrine of
the Panhandle Oil case to the tax imposed in unqualified
terms on sales to which it was applied in that case. The
present tax is not levied in such terms, exclusively on
sales, but is effective only when the seller both manufactures or imports and sells. With respect to the incidence
of its burden on the buyer, so far as we can know, it does
not differ from a tax on the manufacture of goods, payable when sold. See Lash's Products Co. v. United
States, supra. I think that the Wheeler Lumber case,
rather than the PanhandleOil case, should control in determining its validity.
MR. JUsTIcE BRANDEIS concurs in

this opinion.

MAAS & WALDSTEIN CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 263.

Submitted March 12, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.

1. Section 1324 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1921, in allowing interest
on refunds of internal revenue taxes if the amount refunded was
paid by the taxpayer "under a specific protest setting forth in
detail the basis of and reasons for such protest," seeks to recoup
taxpayers who have been unjustly dealt with. The purpose of the
protest is to invite attention of the taxing officers to the illegality
of the collection, so that they may take remedial measures at once;
and meticulous compliance by the taxpayer with the prescribed conditions must appear before he can recover. P. 588.
2. This provision is inapplicable where an excess-profits tax, as re.
turned and paid, was lawfully demanded, but was reduced and in
part refunded, not under a protest, but as the result of written
requests for a reassessment proportioned to the taxes of other representative concerns engaged in like business. Revenue Act of 1917,
Id.
§§ 200, 205 (a), 210.
68 Ct. Cls. 613; 37 F. (2d) 196, affirmed.

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI,

283U.S.

282 U. S. 822, to review a judgment reject-

ing a claim for interest on a refund of money collected as
taxes.
Messrs. George E. Holmes, Valentine B. Havens, W. A.
Sutherland, and Donald Havens were on the brief for
petitioner.
Solicitor General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General
Rugg, and Messrs. Claude R. Branch, Special Assistant to
the Attorney General, Charles R. Pollard, H. Brian Holland, and Erwin N. Griswold were on the brief for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner seeks to recover interest on an overpayment made June 20, 1918, on account of income and excess
profits taxes assessed for the year 1917, which was refunded during 1922. The Court of Claims denied relief
and we are asked to reverse this action.
The Revenue Act of 1917, 40 Stat. 300, 303, 304, 307,
laid an income tax; also a tax upon excess profits equal to
designated percentages of the net income, after making
deductions therefrom as stated in § 203. The amount of
such deductions depended upon invested capital, prewar
operations, etc.
The provisions of that Act here specially applicable
follow"Sec. 205. (a) That if the Secretary of the Treasury,
upon complaint finds either (1) that during the prewar
period a domestic corporation or partnership, or a citizen
or resident of the United States, had no net income from
the trade or business, or (2) that during the prewar period
the percentage, which the net income was of the invested
capital, was low as compared with the percentage, which

MAAS & WALDSTEIN CO. v. U. S.
583

Opinion of the Court.

the net income during such period of representative corporations, partnerships, and individuals, engaged in a like
or similar trade or business, was of their invested capital,
then the deduction shall be . . ."
"Sec. 210. That if the Secretary of the Treasury is
unable in any case satisfactorily to determine the invested
capital, the amount of the deduction shall be the sum of
(1) an amount equal to the same proportion of the net
income of the trade or business received during the taxable
year as the proportion which the average deduction
(determined in the same manner as provided in section
two hundred and three, without including the $3,000 or
$6,000 therein referred to) for the same calendar year of
representative corporations, partnerships, and individuals,
engaged in a like or similar trade or business, bears to the
total net income of the trade or business received by such
corporations, partnerships, and individuals, plus . . ."
Article 52, Treasury Department Regulations 41, promulgated under the Revenue Act of 1917 states--" Section 210 provides for exceptional cases in which the invested capital can not be satisfactorily determined., In
such cases the taxpayer may submit to the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue evidence in support of a claim for
assessment under the provisions of section 210."
Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 227, 316"Sec. 1324 (a). That upon the allowance of a claim
for the refund of or credit for internal revenue taxes paid,
interest shall be allowed and paid upon the total amount
of such refund or credit at the rate of one-half of 1 per
centum per month to the date of such allowance, as follows: (1) if such amount was paid under a specific protest setting forth in detail the basis of and reasons for such
protest, from the time when such tax was paid. . .
The petitioner, a domestic corporation, on March 28,
1918, filed its income and excess profits tax return for
the year 1917. From this it appeared that, reckoned

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

according to the rule commonly applicable, the tax
amounted to $1,508,400.25. With the return petitioner
sent a written communication, addressed to the Commissioner, copied in the margin.* This expressed the opinion
"that our tax is proportionately larger than that of other
representative concerns in the same line of business" and
"that this disproportion arises from causes of the nature
of those specified in Article 52, of Regulations No. 41."
And finally: "Upon the above statement, which we are
prepared to support and amplify if required, we request
assessment in the manner provided for in Article 52,
referring also to Articles 18 and 24, Regulations No. 41."
*MAAs & WALDSTEIN CO.

March 28, 1918.
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, D. C.
DEAR SIR: We beg to submit herewith tax returns for the Maas &
Waldstein Company covering the year 1917 as follows:
Taz return
Amount of tax

Corporation Income Tax Return .........
Is

(C

"

"
14 "

"482.
(1
.. °.........4

$72, 762.90
2

56
5

Munitions Manufacturers' Tax Return ......
242,704.39
Corporation Excess Profits Tax Return .....1,435,637.35
Total Amount of Tax ................... $1,751,587.20
Our net income for the taxable year was $2,656,395.01. We are
therefore required to pay in the above taxes substantially 66% of our
net income. Of the total amount of the Excess Profits Tax, substantially 83% is assessed at the 60% rate, in addition to which we are required to pay over $242,000 for the Munitions Manufacturers' Tax.
It is our opinion that our tax is proportionately larger than that of
other representative concerns in the same line of business. It is our
further opinion that this disproportion arises from causes of the
nature of those specified in Article 52, of Regulations No. 41, for the
following reasons:
1. Under paragraph 3, Article 52, it is our belief that through the
simple form and manner of our organization we are placed at a disadvantage in comparison with representative concerns in a similar
trade or business. In accordance with the regulations applying to

MAAS & WALDSTEIN CO. v. U. S.
583

Opinion of the Court.

On June 20,1918, payment was made of the full amount
of the tax reckoned upon the March 28 return. This was
accompanied by a letter stating "we filed a request dated
March 28th for assessment in the manner provided for in
Article 52, referring also to Articles 18 and 24, Regulations
41. Understanding that these questions will be passed
upon at a later date, we shall be pleased to be advised that
a hearing will be granted to us." At this time no provision of law permitted recovery of interest upon refunded
overpayments.
Excess Profits Tax Returns, we have reduced the value of the tangible
assets acquired at the time of our organization to $100,000. No
proper evidence of the actual value of these assets when acquired by
the corporation is now in existence, but it is our opinion that their
actual value was far in excess of $100,000. By reason of our organization, it has been possible to make our return in strict accord with
the law and the regulations. We believe that this fact places us at a
disadvantage with concerns which, by reason of the manner of their
organization, and by reason of reorganizations through which they
may have passed, are not able to correct their capital account in the
manner provided in the regulations.
2. Under paragraph 4, Article 52, our invested capital, when computed in the manner specified in the regulations, is manifestly seriously disproportionate to the taxable income. This arises in part for
the reasons specified in the preceding paragraph, and in part for the
reason specified under (b) in paragraph 4. About 90% of our total
net income was earned through the operation of our gun cotton plant.
This plant was erected solely for war purposes to meet the needs of a
foreign government and will not be wanted for the purpose of our
trade or business after the termination of the war. Under the regulations it has not been possible to properly allow for the amortization
and exceptional depreciation of this plant.
Upon the above statement, which we are prepared to support and
amplify if required, we request assessment in the manner provided
for in Article 52, referring also to Articles 18 and 24, Regulations
'No. 41.
Very truly your,
Maas & Waldstein Co., Henry V. Walker, President.

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court

283U.S.

December 30, 1921, petitioner filed a formal claim for
the refund of excess payment of income and excess-profits
tax for 1917.
The petitioner now claims that the contents of its letter
of March 28, 1918, reiterated in the later one, were sufficient to meet the requirements of § 1324 (a), Act of
1921-that what was there written amounted to "a specific protest setting forth in detail the basis of and reasons for such protest," within the meaning of the statute.
The Court of Claims held otherwise; and while its opinion cannot be wholly approved, the judgment is correct
and must be affirmed.
The general purpose of the petitioner's communications
to the Commissioner was to induce the latter to set on
foot an investigation of the Company's affairs to the end
that, after ascertaining the circumstances and in the
exercise of a proper discretion, he might make an assessment duly proportioned to those imposed upon others engaged in like business. There was no challenge of the
Commissioner's right then to demand payment according
to the general rule-no claim that in view of the facts
then before him this would amount to an unlawful imposition. Considering the circumstances disclosed, the
Commissioner did nothing unjust or contrary to law when
he demanded payment; and if he had concluded to take
no further proceedings, the petitioner could have recovered nothing. Williamsport Wire Rope Co. v. United
States, 277 U. S. 551.
In Girard Trust Company v. United States, 270 U. S.
163, 170, 173, this Court pointed out that the Act of 1921
is remedial and was passed with the general purpose to
"require the Government to recoup the taxpayer unjustly
dealt with by paying interest during the whole time the
money was detained." Also, we there said-"A protest
is for the purpose of inviting attention of the taxing

PHILLIPS v. COMMISSIONER.
583

Syllabus.

officers to the illegality of the collection, so that they may
take remedial measures at once."
We are unable to conclude that the petitioner's action
amounted to a precise objection to an unauthorized exaction within the fair intendment of the statute. Meticulous compliance by the taxpayer with the prescribed conditions must appear before he can recover. Lucas v.
Pilliod Lumber Co., 281 U. S. 245, 249.
- Affirmed.
PHILLIPS

EXECUTORS, v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 455. Argued April 23, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.
1. Stockholders who have received the assets of a dissolved corporation may be compelled to discharge therefrom the unpaid federal
taxes on the income and excess profits of the corporation. P. 592.
2. Under the Revenue Act of 1926, § 280 (a) (1), and Act of May
29, 1928, this liability of the transferee, "at law or in equity,"
may be enforced summarily in the same manner as that of any
delinquent taxpayer, as well as by proceedings to enforce the tax
lien or by actions at law or in equity. Id.
3. The rule that the United States may collect its internal revenuc
by summary administrative proceedings if adequate opportunity
be afforded for a later determination of legal rights, applies to
taxes assessed against transferees of corporate property. P. 593.
4. The procedure provided in § 280 (a) (1) satisfies the requirements
of due process because two alternative methods of eventual judicial
review are available to the transferee; (a) he may contest his
liability by bringing an action, either against the United States or
the Collector, to recover the amount paid; or (b) he may avail
himself of the provisions for immediate redetermination of the
liability by the Board of Tax Appeals, and if dissatisfied, may have
a further review by the Circuit Court of Appeals and possibly by
this Court on certiorari. P. 597.

