OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Counsel for Parties.

283 U.S.

passed to the buyer by a completely executed act of sale,
without restriction, and no interest in it has been retained
for the benefit of the Indians. Whatever may be the
appropriate limits of the immunity, as applied in this class
of cases, those limits are clearly exceeded by that asserted
Affirmed.
here.
consideration
MR. JusTICE ROBERTS took no part in the
or decision of this case.
STANDARD MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED, v. SCOTTISH METROPOLITAN ASSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 261. Argued March 13, 16, 1931.-Decided April 13, 1931.
1. It has long been the accepted rule, in the law of maritime torts
and of maritime insurance, that the recoverable value of cargo lost
or damaged at sea is the value at time and place of shipment, without allowance for increase of value or anticipated profits. P. 288.
2. An insurer against loss of anticipated profits on cargo and an insurer of the cargo are not co-insurers of the same risk, and the
former is not entitled to be subrogated with the latter to the cargo
owner's right of recovery for destruction of the cargo by a maritime
tort. P. 287.
3. Insurance upon "increased value" of cargo is upon the same footing, in this regard, as insurance upon profits, in so far as the former
covers value in excess of the value of the cargo at time and place
of shipment. P. 288 et seq.
39 F. (2d) 436, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 282 U. S. 822, to review a decree affirming
a decree of the District Court, 28 F. (2d) 540, in a limitation of liability proceeding, which apportioned the recovery between two intervening insurance companies.

Mr. Russell T. Mount for petitioner.
Mr. T. Catesby Jones, with whom Mr. James W. Ryan
was on the brief, for respondent.

STANDARD MARINE INS. CO. v. ASSUR. CO. 285
284

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE SoNz delivered the opinion of the Court.
Dreyfus & Co. purchased wheat at $1.381 a bushel,
c. i. f. Montreal. The wheat was shipped on the S. S.
"Glenorchy" from Port Arthur to Montreal by the seller,
who had insured it, with respondent, for buyer's account,
at a valuation of $1.42 a bushel, the risk to begin immediately after the loading of the vessel. Dreyfus also
effected insurance, with petitioner, covering "increased
value" of the grain above its c. i. f. cost. That value was
stipulated to be the difference between c. i. f. cost and the
highest market value per bushel between the day of sailing and the day on which cargo would have arrived at
destination if the loss had not occurred, plus 5¢. The
applicable clause of the policy, so far as material, is
printed in the margin.*
A collision of the Glenorchy with the S. S. "Leonard B.
Miller" resulted in a total loss of the cargo. In a proceeding for limitation of liability, brought by the owner
of the Miller, in the District Court for Northern Ohio,
both vessels were held at fault, and the cargo owner recovered $309,500 for the insured wheat, with interest from
*" To cover 'Increased Value' on grain owned by the Assured or
in which the Assured may have an interest, such 'Increased Value'
for the purposes of this insurance, to be arrived at by taking the
difference between the c. i. f. invoice cost and the highest market
value per bushel, plus 5c. (Five cents), as set out in the 'New York
Journal of Commerce' between the day of sailing of the vessel at
point of shipment, and the day of the final delivery of the complete
cargo at destination as named in the Certificates, both days inclusive;
and in the event of casualty, to be valued at the difference between
the c. i. f. invoice cost and the highest market value per bushel,
plus 5c. (Five cents) as set out in the 'New York Journal of Commerce' between the day of sailing of the vessel at point of shipment,
and the day the final delivery of the complete cargo would have
arrived at destination if casualty had not occurred, both days
inclusive. ..

"

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2S3 U.S.

the date of collision. That was its value, at $1.544 a
bushel, at the time and place of shipment, which is the
value recoverable for loss of cargo by maritime tort. The
Vaughan & Telegraph, 14 Wall. 258, 267, 268.
Respondent paid Dreyfus $284,000, the full amount of
its policy. Petitioner paid $62,500, stipulated to be the
amount due on its policy at the rate of 311/ per bushel,
the difference between $1.381/2, the c. i. f. price, and
$1.6934, the highest market value within the ten days
after departure required for the voyage, plus 50. Both
insurers intervened in the limitation proceeding, each asserting its right to be subrogated to the cargo owner's
right of recovery. The special commissioner to whom the
matter was submitted reported that petitioner and respondent were co-insurers of cargo, and that they should
share pro rata, in proportion to their policy liabilities, in
the cargo owner's recovery, after payment of his expenses
in litigating the claim.
The District Court decreed payment to respondent of
$284,000, the full amount of its insurance liability, with
interest from the date of loss, and payment to petitioner
of the balance, after deducting the commissioner's fees.
28 F. (2d) 540. The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed. 39 F. (2d) 436. Both courts thought that
as the insurer, on payment of the loss, is subrogated only
to such right of recovery as the insured had, Phoenix Ins.
Co. v. Erie & W. Trans. Co., 117 U. S. 312, and as the latter had no right to recover for any increase in value
beyond that at the time and place of shipment, petitioner,
so far as it had insured such an increase in value, was not
entitled to participate in the recovery, since participation
would amount to the assertion of a right of recovery which
the insured did not possess.
This Court granted certiorari, 282 U. S. 822, on a petition setting up, as grounds for the writ, the importance of
the question and an alleged conflict between the decision

STANDARD MARINE INS. CO. v. ASSUR. CO. 287
284

Opinion of the Court.

below and that of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Brown v. Merchants'Marine Ins. Co., 152 Fed. 411.
Co-insurers, on payment of the loss insured against, are
subrogated to the right of the insured to recover from one
who causes the loss, and participate pro rata in the recovery. As the policy liabilities of the present insurers
were occasioned by the destruction of the same cargo by
the same peril, and as the insured has recovered for its
destruction by that peril, the question precisely stated is
not whether petitioner may assert, by way of subrogation,
a right of recovery which the insured did not possess, but
the extent to which petitioner is entitled to be subrogated
to the right which the insured did possess and assert
against the colliding vessels. Hence the disposition of
the present case turns upon the question whether petitioner and respondent were co-insurers against the same
risk, or independent insurers against different risks.
We think it clear, and it seems to be conceded, that
since respondent is an insurer against loss of cargo, petitioner, if its policy be regarded as insuring against loss of
profits of the venture, is not a co-insurer with respondent, even though the liability of both accrued by reason
of the destruction of the cargo by the same peril. The
very purpose of insurance of profits is to protect the insured against risk of loss which is not covered by insurance upon the cargo itself. See Canada Sugar Refining
Co. v. Insurance Co. of North America, 175 U. S. 609;
Patapsco Insurance Co. v. Coulter, 3 Pet. 222; 1 Arnould
on Marine Insurance (11th ed.) §§ 236, 287, 288; cf.
O'Brienv. North River Ins. Co., 212 Fed. 102.
When the insured thus separates and separately insures
two distinct elements of risk-value of cargo and profits
which may be earned on it-both insurers cannot share
by subrogation in his right to recover against wrongdoers
for cargo damage alone. For, while destruction of the
cargo has in a sense occasioned both losses, the wrong-

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

2S%3 U.S

doer is liable for one and not the other; and hence there
is no right of recovery by the insured for loss of profits
to which the insurer against that loss may be subrogated.
The object of subrogation is to make indemnity to the
insured, up to the amount of the policy, the measure of
the liability of the insurer, and that is its justification.
But the liability would be less than such indemnity if the
insurer could be subrogated to a right of recovery by the
insured for a loss other than that insured against.
Petitioner insists that its insurance was not of anticipated profits, but of increased value of the property, not
differing from any other insurance on property, with respect to which the insurer when called upon to contribute
to loss of its value becomes entitled to share pro rata with
other insurers of the property in any recovery by the insured against third persons causing the loss. Brown v.
Merchants' Marine Ins. Co., supra. But this argument
leaves out of account the peculiar nature of insurance on
increased value of cargo over its value at the port of departure, which, for present purposes, is to be distinguished
from insurance on hull or any other property, increase in
value of which may be embraced in, and recovered under
policies insuring against a loss of the property.
It has long been the accepted rule, in the law of maritime torts and of maritime insurance, that the recoverable
value of cargo lost or damaged at sea is that at time and
place of shipment, without allowance for increase of value
or anticipated profits. Smith v. Condry, 1 How. 28, 35;
The Vaughan & Telegraph, supra, pp. 267, 268; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, 35; The Aleppo, 1 Fed. Cases, No. 158;
The Umbria, 59 Fed. 489, 490; Phillips on Insurance,
§§ 1226, 1229; 1 Arnould on Marine Insurance (11th ed.)
§ 365; see The Old Reliable, 262 Fed. 108, 110; Guibert v.
The George Bell, 3 Fed. 581, 584, 585. The cargo is placed
at risk when the voyage begins. Its value then is the
measure of the risk and of the loss suffered if the cargo

STANDARD MARINE INS. CO. v. ASSUR. CO. 289
Opinion of the Court.

284

is lost or damaged on the voyage. Market value at destination on the date of the loss is not the measure, for that
was not its value at the place of loss. To attribute to the
cargo the market value at destination is to measure, not
the loss, but the profits which would have accrued if the
voyage had been completed and if the market price at the
time of loss had continued to be the market price at the
time of arrival.
Petitioner's policy describes the insurance as upon "increased value on grain." But so far as it covered the
increase in value over that at the port of departure, it
insured against a loss not covered by the insurance on
cargo or recoverable against tort-feasors causing cargo loss.
See Strass v. Spillers & Bakers, [1911] 2 K. B. 759; British Marine Insurance Act, Dec. 21, 1906, 6 Edw. 7, c. 41,
§ 16, which is a codification of the common law. Gow,
Sea Insurance, p. v. (Preface). The liability on the policy
above the value of cargo at Port Arthur represents profits,
as valued, which it might reasonably be assumed would
have accrued to insured if the cargo had reached Montreal.
But whether that coverage may for all purposes be correctly described as insurance of profits or not, it can stand
on no different footing in the present case, for, like insurance of profits, it covers risk of loss not covered by the
cargo policy; and the reasons which preclude the insurer
of profits from participating, by way of subrogation, in
the recovery of the insured for maritime torts causing loss
of the cargo should exclude petitioner from participation
here.
Had petitioner's policy been the usual one on cargo, but
to the extent only that it was not covered by respondent's
insurance, petitioner's liability would not have been the
31Y¢ a bushel which it paid, the difference between c. i. f.
price and the stipulated market value at destination, but
12% a bushel, the difference between the value insured
by respondent and sound value at port of shipment. To
8070531-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

that extent petitioner and respondent would both have
been insurers of cargo, entitled to share in the recovery of
insured for its full loss, as the courts below permitted
them to do. But petitioner's liability was for the larger
amount; and so far as bound to pay in excess of the value
at shipment, it insured against a risk for which there could
be no recovery on the cargo policy, and for which the
owner did and could make no recovery against wrongdoers
for the destruction of the cargo. Petitioner may not be
subrogated to a recovery for a loss against which it did
not insure.
Brown v. Merchants' Marine Ins. Co., supra, on which
petitioner relies, does not support its contention. In that
case, a vessel having an actual value of $140,000 was insured by several time policies, in which it was valued at
$75,000. There were also policies aggregating $12,200 on
"disbursements and/or increased value." The vessel was
sunk in collision and became a total loss, which the underwriters paid. As both vessels were at fault, the damage
was divided; and the insured recovered, as net collision
damages, after payment of expenses, less than the $75,000
value stated in the policies.
It was held that the insurers of increased value were
entitled to share in the recovery pro rata with the other
underwriters. But the recovery was based upon the loss
of the total value of the ship, which, in that case, was the
subject pro tanto of the increased value insurance. Without regard to possible rights of priority, among the several
underwriters, to the fund which all were entitled to claim
by subrogation, the question there was different from that
presented here, where the fund recovered was for a loss
against which petitioner did not insure, and to which for
that reason it may not be subrogated.
Affirmed.

