CARBICE CORP. v. AM. PATENTS CORP.
25

27

Syllabus.

It is impossible to read words that so carefully enumerate
the different forms of motor vehicles and have no reference of any kind to aircraft, as including airplanes under
a term that usage more and more precisely confines to a
different class. The counsel for the petitioner have
shown that the phraseology of the statute as to motor
vehicles follows that of earlier statutes of Connecticut,
Delaware, Ohio, Michigan and Missouri, not to mention
the late Regulations of Traffic for the District of Columbia, Title 6, c. 9, § 242, hone of which can be supposed to
leave the earth.
Although it is not likely that a criminal will carefully
consider the text of the law before he murders or steals, it
is reasonable that a fair warning should be given to the
world in language that the common world will understand,
of what the law intends to do if a certain line is passed.
To make the warning fair, so far as possible the line should
be clear. When a rule of conduct is laid down in words
that evoke in the common mind only the picture of vehicles moving on land, the statute should not be extended
to aircraft, simply because it may seem to us that a similar
policy applies, or upon the speculation that, if the legislature had thought of it, very likely broader words would
have been used. United States v. Thind, 261 U. S. 204,
209.
Judgment reversed.
CARBICE CORPORATION OF AMERICA v. AMERICAN PATENTS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 54.

FOR THE

Argued January 16, 19, 1931.-Decided March 9, 1931.

1. A patentee can not lawfully exact, as the condition of a license,
that unpatented materials used in connection with the invention
shall be purchased only from himself. P. 31.

OCTOBER TERM. 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

2. One who supplies unpatented materials to the licensee to be used
in disregard of such a condition is not liable to the patentee as a
contributory infringer. P. 31.
38 F. (2d) 62, reversed.

CERTIoRAmi, 281 U. S. 711, to review a decree sustaining

the patent of the present respondent and adjudging infringement. The District Court had dismissed the bill
upon the ground that no infringement had been shown.
25 F. (2d) 730.
A petition for further consideration was granted in
this case, April 13, 1931, limited to the question of the
validity of the patent. After reargument, the patent was
held void. See post, p. 420.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., for petitioner.
Mr. Charles Neave, with whom Messrs. George C. Dean
and Clarence D. Kerr were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The American Patents Development Corporation, as
owner of United States Patent No. 1,595,426, and the Dry
Ice Corporation, as exclusive licensee, brought this suit
in the federal court for eastern New York to enjoin contributory infringement by the Carbice Company, for an
accounting of profits, and for damages. The defendant denied both the validity of the patent and the alleged infringement. The District Court, without passing upon
validity, dismissed the bill on the ground that infringement had not been shown, 25 F. (2d) 730. The Circuit
Court of Appeals held the patent valid and infringed,
38 F. (2d) 62. A writ of certiorari was granted, 281
U. S. 711.
Solid carbon dioxide has a temperature of about 110 °
below zero. When it "melts," it passes directly into a
dry, gaseous state-the gas having a like temperature and

CARBICE CORP. v. AM. PATENTS CORP.
27

29

Opinion of the Court.

being in volume about 500 times that of the solid. These
properties make the solid dioxide an excellent dry refrigerant for foodstuffs, particularly for the shipment of ice
cream. The refrigerating transportation package, which
is the subject of the patent in suit, is made up in this
way: Near the middle of the outer box or carton in which
the ice cream or other foodstuff is to be shipped, there is
placed, in a small container, a quantity of solid carbon
dioxide. So placed, this refrigerant is relatively enduring because it is doubly protected from the exterior heat
by the ice cream which surrounds it and by the evaporating gas which excludes air and moisture from the shipping
case. The ice cream is kept frozen by both the solid and
the gaseous dioxide. Although the cost of solid dioxide is
about ten times that of water ice, such use is said to have
revolutionized the transportation of ice cream, as in this
way shipping and handling charges are greatly reduced
and the messiness incident to the employment of water ice
is eliminated.
The patent in suit is not for solid carbon dioxide. That
article and its properties as a refrigerant have been long
known to the public. The patent is not for a machine for
making solid carbon dioxide. Nor is it for a process for
making or using that substance. The Patent Office rejected an application for a process patent. The patent is
said to be for a manufacture. The specifications outline
the method of construction and use; and a typical claim
(6) is for a "transportation package consisting of a protective casing of insulating material having packed therein
a quantity of frozen carbon dioxide in an insulating container and a quantity of freezable product in freezing
proximity to said frozen carbon dioxide and the gas evaporated therefrom, arranged so that said frozen carbon
dioxide is less accessible for exterior heat than said freezable products."
The sole business of the Dry Ice Corporation is the
manufacture of solid carbon dioxide which it sells under

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

the name of "DryIce."
It does not make or sell transportation packages in which solid carbon dioxide is used
as a refrigerant. It does not issue to other concerns licenses to make such packages upon payment of a stipulated royalty. It does not formally license buyers of its
dry ice to use the invention in suit. But each invoice for
solid dioxide sold by it bears this notice: "The merchandise herein described is shipped upon the following
condition: That DryIce shall not be used except in DryIce Cabinets or other containers or apparatus provided
or approved by the DryIce Corporation of America; and
that DryIce Cabinets or other containers or apparatus
provided or approved by the DryIce Corporation of
America shall be refrigerated or used only with Drylce.
These uses of DryIce are fully covered by our Basic
Method and Apparatus Patent No. 1,511,306. Granted
October 14th, 1924, and other Patents Pending." The
patent in suit, No. 1,595,426, issued August 10, 1926, is
not named in the invoice; but it has been assumed that
thereby the Dry Ice Corporation extends to each of its
customers, buyers of solid carbon dioxide, a license to
use the invention without the payment of royalty. The
restrictions as to the purchase of cartons set forth in
the invoices of the corporation appear not to have been
insisted upon by it.
The Carbice Corporation also manufactures solid carbon dioxide. It is charged with contributory infringement because it sells its product to customers of the Dry
Ice Corporation with knowledge that the dioxide is to be
used by the purchaser in transportation packages like
those described in the patent. The Carbice Corporation
challenges the validity of the patent and denies infringement. Whether the transportation package described is
a patentable invention we need not determine. For even
if it is, no relief can be granted.
The invention claimed is for a particular kind of package employing solid carbon dioxide in a new combination.

CARBICE CORP. v. AM. PATENTS CORP.
27

31

Opinion of the Court.

If the patent is valid the owner can, of course, prohibit
entirely the manufacture, sale, or use of such packages,
Continental Paper Bag Co. v. Eastern Paper Bag Co.,
210 U. S. 405. Or it can grant licenses upon terms consistent with the limited scope of the patent monopoly,
United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 489.
It may charge a royalty or license fee. But it may not
exact as the condition of a license that unpatented materials used in connection with the invention shall be
purchased only from the licensor; and if it does so, relief
against one who supplies such unpatented materials will
be denied.1 The limited monopoly to make, use, and
vend an article may not be "expanded by limitations as
to materials and supplies necessary to the operation of
it." Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg.
Co., 243 U. S. 502,515. Compare UnitedShoe Machinery
Corp. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451, 462; United States
v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 492.
The relief here sought is indistinguishable from that
denied in the Motion Picture case. There, it was held
that to permit the patent-owner " to derive its profit, not
'In England the insertion of such a requirement in any license
agreement is a complete defense to any defendant charged with infringement. See Patents and Designs Act (1907) 7 Edw. VII, c. 29,
§ 38, as amended by (1919) 9 & 10 Geo. V, c. 80, § 20, Sched. 38;
Sarason v. Fr~nay [1914] 2 Ch. 474; Huntoon Co. v. Kolynos, Inc.,
[1930] 1 Ch. Div. 528, 535, 547, 553, 562. The need for such legislative measures to prevent abuse of the patent monopoly has now been
recognized by the International Convention for the Protection of
Industrial Property. See Actes de la Conf6rence de La Haye de
1925 (Berne, 1926) pp. 433-34, 606; Ladas, International Protection of Industrial Property, pp. 337-40, 817. In this country the
patent statutes similarly provide that an unreasonable delay in
formally disavowing patent claims held invalid, and the consequent
maintenance of a broader monopoly than warranted, is a complete
defense to all infringers, even as to remaining valid claims. Rev. Stat.
§§ 4917, 4922; 35 U. S. C. §§ 65, 71. See Ensten v. Simon, Ascher &
Co., Inc., 282 U. S. 445.

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

from the invention on which the law gives it a monopoly
but from the unpatented supplies with which it is used,"
is "wholly without the scope of the patent monopoly."
P. 517. If a monopoly could be so expanded, the owner of
a patent for a product might conceivably monopolize the
commerce in a large part of unpatented materials used in
its manufacture. The owner of a patent for a machine
might thereby secure a partial monopoly on the unpatented supplies consumed in its operation. The owner of
a patent for a process might secure a partial monopoly
on the unpatented material employed in it. The owner
of the patent in suit might conceivably secure a limited
monopoly for the supplying not only of solid carbon dioxide, but also of the ice cream and other foods, as well as
of the cartons in which they are shipped.2 The attempt to
limit the licensee to the use of unpatented materials purchased from the licensor is comparable to the attempt of
a patentee to fix the price at which the patented article
may be resold. Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1;
Straus v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490;
Boston Store v. American Graphophone Co., 246 U. S. 8.
Compare Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339. In
both classes of cases, courts deny relief against those who
disregard the limitations sought to be imposed by the patentee beyond the legitimate scope of its monopoly.'
'See, also, the examples given by Chief Justice White, dissenting in
Henry v. A. B. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, 55. "The very existence of
such restrictions suggests that in its absence a competing article of
equal or better quality would be offered at the same or at a lower
price. . . ." Vaughan, Economics of Our Patent System, pp.
125-127.
' The patent grant is inherently limited in other respects. A patent
covering an essential instrumentality does not enable a patentee or
its licensee thereby to abridge its obligations as a public utility; the
exclusive right to license use of the invention cannot be so exercised.
Missouri ex rel. Baltimore & 0. Tel. Co. v. Bell Tel. Co., 23 Fed. 539,

CARBICE CORP. v. AM. PATENTS CORP.

33

Opinion of the Court.

27

Plaintiffs seek to distinguish the Motion Picture case
from that at bar, by pointing out that there, as in Henry
v. A. B. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, the unpatented supplies,
over which the licensor sought to extend its monopoly,
were merely used in the patented machines, whereas here
the unpatented refrigerant is one of the necessary elements of the patented product. And to distinguish the
case at bar from Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Perforated Wrapping PaperCo., 152 U. S. 425, 433, it is pointed
out that the Carbice Corporation is furnishing not a passive element in the combination, like the paper in the
Morgan Envelope fixture, but the dynamic element which
produces refrigeration. These distinctions are without
legal significance. Infringement, whether direct or contributory, is essentially a tort, and implies invasion of
some right of the patentee. Compare Moore v. Marsh,
7 Wall. 515, 520; Root v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 214.
The Dry Ice Corporation has no right to be free from
competition in the sale of solid carbon dioxide. Control
over the supply of such unpatented material is beyond the
scope of the patentee's monopoly; and this limitation.
inherent in the patent grant, is not dependent upon the
peculiar function or character of the unpatented material
or on the way in which it is used. Relief is denied because the Dry Ice Corporation is attempting, without
sanction of law, to employ the patent to secure a limited
appeal dismissed, 127 U. S. 780; State ex ret. Postal Tel. Cable Co. v.
Delaware & A. Tel. & Tel. Co., 47 Fed. 633, affirmed, 50 Fed. 677.
Nor does the grant of a United States patent exempt the patented
product from limitations imposed by state police statutes. Patterson
v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501; Allen v. Riley, 203 U. S. 347; John Woods
& Sons v. Carl, 203 U. S. 358; Ozan Lumber Co. v. Union County
National Bank, 207 U. S. 251. Compare Webber v. Virginia, 103
U. S. 344, 347. See note 1, supra. Nor can a patent be made the
basis of an unconscionable contract. Pope Mfg. Co. v. Gormully,
144 U. S. 224.
80705°_31-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
Opinion of the Court.

283 U.S.

monopoly of unpatented material used in applying the
invention. The present attempt is analogous to the use
of a patent as an instrument for restraining commerce
which was condemned, under the Sherman Anti-Trust
Law, in Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226
U. S. 20.'
The case at bar -iA wholly unlike Leeds & Catlin v.
Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S. 325, 333, on which
plaintiffs rely. That was an ordinary case of contributory
infringement. The Victor Company sold machines embodying a patent for a combination. Leeds & Catlin
were held to be infringers because the intended incorporation in the Victor machines of the article which they
sold, did not constitute a repair of the machine and
hence was not within the license implied on sale. Heyer
v. DuplicatorMfg. Co., 263 U. S. 100. There was no suggestion that the Victor Company, which itself manufactured and sold the patented product, sought "to derive its profits, not from the invention on which the law
gives it a monopoly, but from the unpatented supplies
with which it is used." In the case at bar the plaintiffs
neither sell nor license others to sell complete transportation packages. They supply merely one of the several
materials entering into the combination; and on that
4

In such cases, the attempt to use the patent unreasonably to

restrain commerce is not only beyond the scope of the grant, but
also a direct violation of the Anti-Trust Acts. Compare § 3 of the
Clayton Act, October 15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, 731, which prohibits any lease, sale, contract, or agreement tending to create a
monopoly in any line of commerce, and is applicable to all "goods,
wares, merchandise, machinery, supplies or other commodities,
whether patented or unpatented. . . ." See United Shoe Mach.
Co. v. United States, 258 U. S. 451, 460; Lord v. Radio Corp. of

America, 24 F. (2d) 565, 566-67, affirmed, 28 F. (2d) 257, certiorari
denied, 278 U. S. 648, decree entered, 35 F. (2d) 962, affirmed, 47 F.
(2d) 606. Compare, as to trade secrets, Dr. Miles Medical Co. v.
Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, 401.

CHES. & OHIO RY. v. UNITED STATES.
27

35

Counsel for Parties.

commodity they have not been granted a monopoly.
Their attempt to secure one cannot be sanctioned."
Reversed.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 73.

Argued January 26, 27, 1931.-Decided March 9, 1931.

1. Facts stated in a report of the Interstate Commerce Commission held sustained by findings and sufficient to support an order
authorizing new railroad construction, under § 1, (18), (20), of the
Transportation Act. P. 38.
2. The Commission, in reaching a determination that proposed extensions of lines of railroad are required by the public interest, may
properly consider the desirability of preserving competition between
rival railroad systems. P. 41.
35 F. (2d) 769, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges dismissing a bill to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Robert B. Tunstall, with whom Messers. Herbert
Fitzpatrickand Thomas L. Preston were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Nelson Thomas, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton were on the brief,
'Restrictions on the manner of use, essential to prevent unwarranted extension, are inherent in other limited monopolies. Thus, a
trademark may not be used as a means of misrepresentation. Worden v. California Fig Syrup Co., 187 U. S. 516; Mulhens & Kropff,
Inc., v. Ferd. Muelhens, Inc., 43 F. (2d) 937; Leather Cloth Co., Ltd.,
v. American Leather Cloth Co., Ltd., 4 De G. J. & S. 137, affirmed,
11 H. L. C. 523. Nor a tradename as a means of deception. Memphis Keeley Institute v. Keeley Co., 155 Fed. 964; Royal Baking
Powder Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 281 Fed. 744; Federal
Trade Commssion v. Bradley, 31 F. (2d) 569.

