OCTOBER TERM, 1930.

568

Opinion of the Court.

283U.S.

cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
NORTHPORT POWER & LIGHT CO. v. HARTLEY,
GOVERNOR OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGIoN.

No. 66.

Argued January. 23, 1931.-Decided May 25, 1931.

A bill to enjoin state officials from bringing an action in the state

courts for the purpose of forfeiting and escheating the plaintiff's
land under a law of the State that the plaintiff attacks as repugnant
to the Federal Constitution, will not lie in a federal court, since
full protection of the plaintiff's rights can be had in the action by
the State, if instituted. P. 569.

35 F. (2d) 199, affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill for an injunction.
APPEAL

Mr. 0. C. Moore, with whom Mr. W. Lon Johnson was
on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. John H. Dunbar, Attorney General of Washington, and John A. Homer, Assistant Attorney General,

were on the brief for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill in equity to enjoin the appellees from
bringing or causing to be brought a suit for enforcing

against the appellant Section 33, Article II of the Constitution of the State of Washington and an Act of 1921 in
pursuance of the same, it being alleged that the Section
and Act are repugnant to the commerce and contract

NORTHPORT POW. & L. CO. v. HARTLEY. 569
568

Opinion of the Court.

clauses of the Constitution of the United States and also
to the Fourteenth Amendment and to the Treaty between
the United States and Great Britain. The bill was dismissed by a District Court of three Judges. 35 F.
(2d) 199.
The bill alleges that the plaintiff, the appellant, is a
corporation of the State of Washington and that it owns
rights of way, &c., over-which it transmits electrical energy
from Canada to points within the State. But the majority of its stock is owned by an alien corporation and,
with immaterial exceptions, Section 33, Art. II of the
Constitution of the State prohibits the ownership of land
by aliens and provides that every corporation of which
the majority of the stock is owned by aliens shall be considered an alien for the purposes of the prohibition. This
was in force before the appellant acquired its alleged
rights. The statute was passed after the acquisition.
State v. Natsuhara,136 Wash. 437, 444; 240 Pac. 557. It
is alleged that the defendants have threatened and will
attempt to forfeit and escheat to the State the plaintiff's
rights by prosecuting a suit at law in the Courts of
the State as a result of which the plaintiffs will suffer
irreparable loss.
Some, at least, of the constitutional objections to the
laws of the State are disposed of by Terrace v. Thompson,
263 U. S. 197, but before they are reached there arises
the objection that no ground for equitable interference by
the Courts of the United States is shown by the bill. The
only injury alleged is the result of the suit in the State
Courts. So far as appears that result will ensue only
upon a decision against the appellant. It is an odd
ground for an injunction against a suit that the suit may
turn out against the party sued. If the action is based
upon an unconstitutional law and if the trial Court upholds it, still the appellant can protect its rights as fully
in the State Courts as elsewhere. As it is put by Mr.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1930.
283U.S.

Syllabus.

Justice Moody speaking for a unanimous Court, "It is safe

to say that no case can be found where this court has
deliberately approved the issuance of an injunction
against the enforcement of an ordinance resting on state

authority, merely because it was illegal or unconstitutional, unless further circumstances were shown which

brought the case within some clear ground of equity jurisdiction."

Boise Artesian Hot & Cold Water Co. v. Boise

City, 213 U. S. 276, 285.

Cavanauzgh v. Looney, 248

U. S. 453, 456. These cases relied on by the Court below
are sufficient to sustain its conclusion. The exceptions
are explained in the cases in which they occur, e. g., Tirrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 215, 216.

Decree affirmed.
INDIAN MOTOCYCLE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 5. Argued April 25, 1929. Reargued October 24, 27, 1930.-Decided May 25, 1931.
1. A certificate from the Court of Claims presenting a question of
law suitably distinct and definite, may be entertained although it
be apparent that, with the facts as settled by an agreed statement
accepted below, a decision of the question, either way, will be decisive of the case. P. 573.
2. The tax laid by ยง 600 of the Revenue Act of 1924 upon certain
specified articles, including motorcycles, "sold . . .by the manufacturer . . ." equivalent to 5% of the price for which they are
so sold, the statute requiring the manufacturers to make return of
their sales and to pay the tax, is an excise on the sale and not on
the manufacture or on the manufacture and sale. P. 573.
3. The principle that the instrumentalities, means and operations
whereby the States exert their governmental powers are exempt
from taxation by the United States, is not affected by the amount
of the particular tax or the extent of the resulting interference, but
is absolute. P. 575.

