OCTOBER TERM, 1983

1310

Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

UHLER ET AL. v. AMERICAN FEDERATION OF
LABOR-CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL
ORGANIZATIONS ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-137.

Decided September 7, 1984

An application to stay the California Supreme Court's mandate prohibiting
the placement on the State's November 1984 ballot of an initiative that
would require the California Legislature (or the California Secretary of
State) to request Congress to call a Constitutional Convention for the
purpose of amending the Federal Constitution to require a balanced
federal budget, is denied. The California Supreme Court ruled that
the proposed initiative would violate both the Federal and State Constitutions, and a majority of this Court would probably conclude that
there was an adequate and independent state ground for the state court's
decision.
Moreover, applicants' "political question" claim probably
would not be viewed as raising a substantial federal question.

Circuit Justice
Applicants ask that I stay a mandate of the Supreme Court
of California prohibiting the placement on California's November 1984 ballot of a proposed "balanced federal budget
statutory initiative." The initiative would have required the
California Legislature to request Congress to call a Constitutional Convention for the purpose of amending the United
States Constitution to require a balanced federal budget. If
the legislature failed to act, the initiative would have directed
the California Secretary of State, the nominal respondent in
this case, to apply directly to Congress in behalf of the State's
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

voters.

At present, 32 of the necessary 34 States have for-

mally applied to Congress to convene such a Constitutional

Convention.
The Supreme Court of California ruled at the behest of
respondents, the American Federation of Labor-Congress of

Industrial Organizations et al., who filed an original action
in that court challenging the legality of the initiative under

UHLER v. AFL-CIO
1310

Opinion in Chambers

both state law and the United States Constitution. The
constitutional provision at issue is that part of Article V
which states that "It]he Congress ... on the Application
of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall
call a Convention for proposing Amendments . ..

."

The California court undertook to decide two clearly federal questions relating to the meaning of the word "Legislatures" in the above clause: (1) whether that word encompasses the voters of a State who have power to enact laws by
initiative, and (2) whether it includes a legislature not acting
as an independent body, but forced to act by exercise of the
initiative power. The court answered each of these questions in the negative, concluding that the word "Legislatures" means the State's lawmaking body of elected representatives, acting independently of restrictions imposed by
state law. These federal questions are important and by no
means settled; however, because the California court went on
to hold the proposed initiative invalid on independent statelaw grounds, I am satisfied that a majority of this Court
would conclude that there is an adequate and independent
state ground for the California court's decision.
After a detailed analysis of California law and a discussion
of the treatment of similar questions by other state courts,
the Supreme Court of California decided that important portions of the proposed initiative were not "statutes," as that
term is used in the California Constitution, but were "resolutions," and were therefore not a proper subject of the initiative process under the California Constitution. AFL-CIO
v. Eu, 36 Cal. 3d 687, 686 P. 2d 609 (1984). We have long
held that we will not review state-court decisions such as
this, largely for the reason that decisions on the federal questions in such cases would amount to no more than advisory
opinions. See Michigan v. Long, 463 U. S. 1032, 1037-1039
(1983); Herb v. Pitcairn,324 U. S. 117, 125-126 (1945).
Applicants urge that the foregoing construction of the California initiative provision, although denominated a state-law

1312

OCTOBER TERM, 1983

Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

question by the California Court, is actually a "political question" as a matter of federal law and therefore not subject to
decision on the merits by a state court. Applicants base
their "political question" claim on the decision of this Court
in Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S. 433 (1939). In that case
four Justices of this Court adopted the position that the
Court lacked jurisdiction to rule on questions arising in connection with the ratification of a constitutional amendment
because all such questions were "political" in nature. But
that position did not command a majority in Coleman, supra,
and however this Court would presently resolve the issues
raised in the Coleman case, I do not think a majority would
subscribe to applicants' expansive reading of the "political
question" doctrine in connection with the amending process.
Acceptance of applicants' arguments would, in effect, mean
that courts in the State of California or elsewhere would be
powerless to prevent the placing on the ballot of initiative
measures designed to play a part in the process of amending
the United States Constitution even though such initiative
proposals clearly did not comply with state requirements as
to the necessary number of signatures, time of filing, and
the like. In the light of later discussions of the "political
question" doctrine in cases such as Powell v. McCormack,
395 U. S. 486 (1969), and Baker v. Carr, 369 U. S. 186
(1962), I simply do not think this Court would believe that
applicants' claim in this regard raises a substantial federal
question. See also Dyer v. Blair, 390 F. Supp. 1291 (ED
Ill. 1975) (three-judge court).
The application for a stay is accordingly denied.

