DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

461

The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed.

THE LOUISVILLE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
MICHAEL WELCH.
The following guaranty, viz. "I hereby guaranty the payment of any purchases of
bagging and rope- which Thomas Barrett may have occasion to make between
this and the 1st of December next," extends the liability of the guarantor to purchases upon areasonable credit, made anterior to the 1st of December, although
the time of payment was not to arrive until after that day.
The vendor was not bound to give immediate notice to the guarantor of the amount
furnished, or the sum of nioney for which the guarantor was held responsible. It
was sufficient to give this notice within a reasonable time after the transactions
were closed, and the question what was a reasonable time was a question of fact
for the jury.
If the principal debtor be insolvent at the time when the payment becomes due, even
this notice is not necessary, unless some damage or loss can be shown to have
accrued to the guarantor in consequence of his not receiving such a notice. And
in no instance, in case of a guaranty, will the guarantor be exempt from liability
for want of the notice, unless loss or damage is shown to have accrued as a consequence.
But when a party intends to avail himself of the guaranty by making sales on the
faith of it to the person to whom it is given, sueh~party must give notice, within a
rcasonable tirae, to the guarantor, of his acceptance aid intention to act on it.
Where the guarantor took defence upon the ground that he had before notice given
up securities belonging to the receiver of the guaranty which would have made
him whole, the time of his doing this should have been given to the jury as an essential ingredient for their judgment upon the question whether or not'he had recived reasonable notice of his liability.
.1he admission of the guarantor, when called upon for payment, did not conclusively
bind him as a matter of law, because it may not have been made with a full knowloge of all the facts in the case. It was tlerefore properly left to thL jury to decide whether so made or not.

Tis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United Srates for the District of Louisiana.
The Louisville Manufacturing Company was incorporated
by an act of the legislature of Kentucky, and was domiciliated
and transacting business in that State.
On the 3d of May, 184-5, Michael Welch gave to one Thomas Barrett the following letter of credit, viz.: " hereby guaranty the payment of any purchases of bag39 *i,

SUPREME COURT.
The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welcb.

ging and rope which Thomas Barrett may have occasion to
make between this and the 1st of December next.
M. WELCH.
"New Orleans, 3d May, 1845."
This letter of credit was deposited by Barrett with the house
of Worsley, Forman, & Kennedy, the factors of the Louisville
Manufacturing Company, who made sundry sales of bagging
and rope to Barrett upon the following credits, viz. :Up to the 22d July, 1845, and on that day, the sales of bagging and rope by plaintiffs to Barrett amounted to $ 891.32,
for which, on that day, Thomas S. Forman, agent of plaintliffs,
drew a bill on Barrett, to the order of the Louisville Manufacturing Company, due and demandable on the 20th of December, 1845, which bill-was accepted by Barrett.
On 28th August, 1845, Barrett drew on himself, and accepted a bill for $ 605.07, to the ordor of the plaintiffs, due 10th
January, 1846.
On the 18th September, 1845, Barrett drew on himself, and
accepted a bill for $ 531.50, to the order of the plaintiffs, due
15th January, 1846.
On the 1st December, 1845, Barrett drew on himself, and
accepted a bill for $ 433.08, to the order of plaintiffs, due on
the 20th January, 1846.
The first-named bill for $ 891.32 was not protested, having
been -ithheld from the protest, at the instance of Barrett. The
other three bills were protested at maturity.
The circumstances which occurred, prior to the institution
of the suit, are stated in the evidence given upon the trial,
which was made a part of the bill of exceptions.
On the 1st of August, 1847, the Louisville Manufacturing
Company brought an action, by filing a petition against
Michael Welch, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana, which came on for trial in May,
1848. The following is the evidence which was given.
"And afterwards, to wit, on the 11th day of May, 1848, the
testimony of W. Chambers was offered in evidence.
"I was a clerk in the houses of Worsley & Forman, Worsley, Forman, & Kennedy, anti Forman & Kennedy, from the
winter of 1842 to July, 1847. In the spring or summer of
1845, Thomas Barrett deposited with Worsley, Forman, &
Kennedy a letter of credit from Michael Welch, guarantying
the payment of bagging and rope, which Barrett might purchase, to a certain amount, within a certain named period.
On the said letter of credit. Worsley, Forman. & Kennedy did,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
The Louisville

463

Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

as factors of the Louisville Manufacturing Company, sell to
Barrett, at various times, sundry invoices of bagging and rope
belonging to said Louisville Manufacturing Company, for
which they took his acceptances for account of said company
as follows; viz. one dated 22d July, 1845, due 20-23 December, for $891.32; one dated 28th August, 1845, due 10-13
January, 1846, $ 605.07; one dated 18th September, 1845, due
15-18 January, 1846, $ 531.50; one dated 1st December, 1845,
due 20-23 January, 1846, $ 433.08.
"Subsequently to taking the acceptance last named, they sold
him bagging and rope to the amount of $ 78.86, which stands
to his debt on open account.
"Mr. Welch was not notified by Worsley, Forman, & Kennedy that the letter of credit had been deposited with them at
the time it was deposited, nor until after the maturity of the
acceptance first named above. Shortly after the maturity of
the said bill, in the latter part of December or early part of
January, I think between the 5th and 10th of January, I saw
Mr. Welch in person; informed him of the sales of bagging
and rope made by Worsley, Forman, & Kennedy to Mr. Barrett on his letter of credit; told him that the acceptance of
Barrett for $ 891.32 was unpaid; that he would be looked to
for the payment of it, and the other acceptances should they
not be paid. He requested me to try and get all I could from
Barrett.
"On the 7th of May, 1846, I addressed him a letter urging
him to settle the claim. Saw him in person, don't recollect
the date of the interview, and urged him to settle the business.
He requested that he might not be pressed for payment, saying
that it was a very hard case; that he did not wish to place any
obstacle in the way of collecting the money; that he had not
then at command the means of paying it conveniently; that
he would have more ample means when the next cotton crop
came into markdt.
" On the 26th of April, 1847, I had an interview with Mr.
Welch. He remarked that he understood the letter of credit
.to restrict the time of the credit which might be given for
goods purchased under it to the month of December; that,
under the impression, to protect himself against the liability,
he retained under his controjl certain valqable papers of Barrett's, until the expiration of the time to which he thought his
liability extended, when, upon the assurance of Mr. Barrett that
the debt was settled, he surrendered the papers.
"I remarked to him that, in the interview which I had with
him in the spring of 1846, he assured me that it was not his
intention to place any obstacle in the way of the collection

464

SUPREME COURT.
The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

of the money; that he asked, as a favor, that he might not be
pressed for its immediate payment, representing that he had
not then the means at command to pay it, but hat he would
be able to pay it with less inconvenience when the next cotton
crop came into market; that he had induced the belief that he
would pay it as soon as he could do so. He replied that it
was at that time his intention to pay it, and that he would
have done so, but that he subsequently learned that he would
lose a much larger sum by Mr. Barrett; that he would be
unable to bear so heavy a loss, and had corhe to the determination not to pay this claim, or any other claim growing
out of his liability for Barrett, unless compelled by law.
"The papers to which I refer as having been in the hands
of Mr. Welch, and which he said he might have retained to
indemnify him, I did not understand him as saying had been
placed in his hands by Mr. Barrett for that purpose, but came
into his hands without any reference whatever to this liabiiity;
but that, if he had known he was liable, he could and would
have re ained them.
"Air. Welch did not, as well as I remember, make to me any
pronise to pay the bills, except in the manner previously refrred to.
"Worsley, Forman, & Kennedy, or Worsley & Forman, their
predecessors in business, had previously sold to Mr. Barrett
bagging and rope to a large amount, upon a letter of credit of
Mr. Welch and Mr. Elgee, acting as the agent of Worsley, Forman, & Kennedy. I would not have sold goods to Mr. Barrett
on time upon his individual responsibility alone.
" On the day of the maturity of the bill first maturing, the
one for $ 891.32, d e 20-23 December, Mr. Duff, a young
man who had charge of Mr. Barrett's business, called on me
and told me that Ir. Barrett was sick; that he would be unable to pay the bill on that day, and requested that Worsley,
Forman, & Kennedy would take it up, representing that he
would be in funds to pay it in a few days, and, as soon as.he
was able, would pay it. In consequence of which, the bill
was taken up by Worsley, Forman, & Kennedy, as agent of
the Louisville Manufacturing Company.
W. CHA IBER5.
"New Orleans, February23, 1848.
"To be admitted as evidence, as if sworn to and given in'open
court.

WM.

DUNBAR, for Welch.
STOCKTON & STEELE, for _Plaintif.

"New Orleans, February 23, 1848.

465

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

"And on the same day the testimony of W. W. Whitehead

was offered in evidence.
"I am acquainted with the bagging and rope trade in New
Orleans; have been several times, at different periods, in the
commercial house of Worsley, Forman, & Kennedy, and Forman & Kennedy; know that those articles are sometimes
sold for cash, and sometimes on time. Time sales made
about this period of the year are most frequently made payable about the beginning of the ensuing year, bNit vary as to
the time; sometimes the bills are drawn payable as early as
November and December, and sometiines the time is extended
to January, February, and March. Time sales are also sometimes made on shorter time, to wit, thirty, sixty, ninety, and
one hundred and twenty~days.
W.

W . WHITEHEAD.

"New Orleans, MIay 10, 1848."
" The above evidence is taken by consent of parties, and it
is agreed that it may be read on the trial of the case of the
Louisville Manufacturing Company v. Welch, as testimony,
by either party.

STOCKTON & STEELE,

Wi.

DUNBAR,

for Plaintiffs.
for Defendant.

"N
Rew Orleans, May 10, 1848.
"And further on: the same day, the testimony of D. Griffon
was offered in evidence.
"I certify that the two accounts, A and B, are taken from
the books of the late Thomas Barrett, and are a true copy of
the same, and that they contain a full and correct statement of
the accounts of Thomas Barrett and Michael Welch, Esq. I
was a clerk in the house of Thomas Barrett during the period
of the above two accounts, and know them to be correct, having compared them with the books. There were not, at any
time, any funds or notes placed in the haiids of Mr. Welch to
secure him for his guaranty of the 3d May, 1845; if there had
been, I should have known it. I have known that Captain
,Welch traded from Alexandria to New Orleans as captain of a
steamboat, and was here every eight or ten days, from the 3d
of May, 1845, up to this time.

D.

GRIFFON.

"Neil) Orleans, 23d February,1848.

"We agree that the above evidence may be used'as if the
witness was sworn and examined in open court, in the case of
the Louisville Manufacturing Company v. Mr. Welch, and that

466

SUPREME COURT.
The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

the accounts A and B be taken without requiring the production of the books of Banett.
STOCeTON & STuELE,

for Plaintiffs.

Wm.DUNBAR, for Defendant."
"New Orleans, February 23, 1848."
(Then followed a transcript of long accounts between Welch
and Barrett.)
The following bill of exceptions was taken upon the tilal: "Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause,'and before the jury retired, the plaintiffs by their counsel, Stockton &
Steele, requested the court to charge the jury as follows "11. That the statement made by defendant to witness
Chambers, who had called on behalf of plaintiffs to demand
payment, that on the assurance of Barrett that the debt had
been paid, he, Welch, had given up papers and security, by
which he could have secured himself from loss, was an acknowledgment that he had due notice of the fact that the
plaintiffs had sold the goods to Barrett on the faith of the letter
of credit.
"2. That if notice of the purchase of goods from plaintiffs
on the letter of credit was given within a reasonable time by
Barrett to defendant, it enured to the benefit of plaintiffs as
effectually as if the notice had been given him directly from
the plaintiffs.
"3. That the immediate and' strict notice required to be
of exchange or promisgiven by the holder of a protested billguaranty.
of
sory note is not requisite hicases
"4. That if there was no other notice, that given by plaintiffs at the time of the protest of the first bill, or shortly before
or shortly after the date, was sufficient.
"5. That the statement made by Welch, the defendant,
to witness, Chambers, while the latter was acting for plaintiffs
in endeavoring to collect the debt, that he had not then the
means to pay the debt, but after another cotton crop he would
be able to pay, and that ' he did not wish to throw any obstacles ii the way of the collection of the debt,' was a waiver of all
objections to the payment thereof, was an acknowledgment of
his legal liability, and a promise to plaintiffs to pay them the
debt.
"6. That the failure to protest any of the bills of exchange
was not a giving of further time to the debtor, Barrett, and the
liability of the defendant was in no way affected thereby.
"7. That the giving a reasonable credit to Barrett on the sales
was no violation of the rights of Welch, and that the credits in
this case were reasonable.

DECEMBER TERM,

1850.

467

The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.
"8. That the mistake of Welch as to the fact of the debt
having been paid does not release his obligation.
"Whereupon the court instructed the jury as desired by the
plaintiffs in their second, third, and sixth points of instruction,
but refused to give any of the other instructions asked by the
plaintiffs; to which ruling -of the court, the plaintiffs by their
said counsel excepted, tendered this their bill of exception, and
prayed that it might be signed, which is done accordingly.
" And be it further remembered, that at the same time the
defendant, by William Dunbar, his counsel, asked the court
to charge the jury as follows: "1. That upon acceptance by the plaintiffs, or thei-, agents, of
the letfer of credit, notice should have been given in a reasonable time to the defendant that they had accepted the guaranty,
and that they meant to furnish Thmnas Barrett with bagging
and rope upon the faith of defendant's guaranty.
"2. That after the bagging and rope had been furnished by
them, they should have given immediate notice to the defendant of the amount furnished, and the sum of money for which
they looked to the defendant for payment.
" 3. That the credit to Thomas Barrett should not have been
extended beyond the term mentioned in said letter of credit,
viz. the 1st of December, 1646, the terin mentioned in said
guaranty.
"4. That if the defendant had been released or discharged
by the failure of the plaintiffs or their agents to give the proper
notices to the defendan as before charged, the obligation of
the defendant on the guaranty could be revived, or the laches
or neglect of the plaintiffs, or their agents, waived only by a
promise of the defendant to pay -with a full knowledge of all
the circumstances; and that the promise must be explicit, and
made out by the most clear and unequivocal evidence.
"5. That if the jury believe that time was given by ihe plaintiffs or their agents to Thomas Barrett, at the maturity of any
of the drafts or notes sued on, without the consent of the defendant, the defendant is hereby relieved from the payment of
any one of them upon which said time was given.
I- Whereupon the plaintiffs objected to the court giving such
instructions so asked by the defendant through his said counsel, but the court overruled said objections of the plaintiffs, and
gave to the jury all the said instructions so asked as aforesaid
by the defendant; fo which ruling and instructions by the court
the plaintiffs by their said counsel excepted, tendered this their
bill of exceptions, and prayed the same might be signed, which
is done accordingly. The court, in refusing to give the fifth instruction asked by the plaintiffs, stated to the jury that it was

468

SUPREMt COURT.
The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

a question of fact for their own determination, and that for that
reason he refused to give that instruction.
"TH Eo. H. Ale CALEB, U S. Tucdge.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant, and the plaintiffs
sued out a writ of error, under which the case was brought to
this court.
It was argued by Mr. Butterworth, in a printed brief, for the
plaintiffs in error, no counsel appearing for the defendant.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error
were the following, viz.: L That the court erred in refusing to charge the jury as
follows 1. "That the statement made by defendant to witness Chambers, who had called on behalf of the plaintiffs to demand payient, that on the assurance of Barrett, that the debt had been
paid, he, Welch, had given up papers and security, by which
he could have secured himself from loss, was an acknowledgment that he had due notice of the fact that the plaintifl had
sold the goods to Barrett on the faith of the letter of credit."
2. "That if there was no other notice, that given by the
plaintiffs at the time of the protest of the first bill, or shortly
befoie or after that date, was sufficient."
3. "That the statement made by Welch, the defendant, to the
witness Chambers, while the latter was acting for the .plaintiffs
in endeavoring to collect the debt, that he had not then- the
means to pay the debt, but after another crop of cotton, he
would be able to pay, and he did not wish to throw any obstacles in the way of the collection of the debt, was a waiver
of all objections to the payment thereof, was an acknowledgment of his legal liability, and a promise to plaintiffs to pay
them the debt."
4. "That the giving a reasonable credit to Barrett on the
sales was no violation of the rights of Welch, and that the
credits given in this case were reasonable."
5. "Tat the mistake of Welch as to the fact of the debt
havirig been paid does not release his obligation"
II. The court erred in charging the jury as follows:
1. "That the credit of Thomas Barrett should not have been
extended -beyond the term mentioned in said letter of oredit,
viz. the 1st of December, 1845Y"
Upon this assignment of errors, we have only a few words
of remark to offer to the court.
The conversation of Welch with Chambers, referred to in
the first item of instructions to the jury asked by plaintiffs,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

469

The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

shows conclusively that Welch had had securities, or means of
indemnity, in his hands against loss on account of this guaranty; that he had intended to hold on to them; and that he
gave up these securities to Barret only on the assurance of
Barrett that the debt had been paid to the plaintiffs.
It seems, then, that Welch not only had notice, but he had
reaped the fruits which the law intends shall be gathered from
notice, security against loss. If he afterwards gave up these
securities to Barrett, on his assurance that the debt had been
paid, it was his own folly and misfortune; but the very reason
which Welch assigned to Chambers for having given up the
securities necessarily establishes the fact ot dJe notice.
That Welch intended to hold on to these securities is established by the fact that he gave them up on the assurance of
Barrett that the debt had been paid.
The court should have given the jury the instruction contained in the fourth item of instructions asked for by the plaintiffs. However, we do not deem it material, as what is said
above is, in our opinion, conclusive on the matter of notice.
The same reason also relieves us from any necessity to
remark upon the instructions given the jury at the instance of
defendant, in regard to notice.
The conversation of Welch with Chambers, in our opinion,
clearly establishes, also, that Welch acknowledged his indebtedness, and promised to pay the defendant; and, therefore, the
fifth item of instruction to the jury, asked by the plaintiffs,
should have been given by the court. Welch said that he
had not then money to pay the debt; that after another crop
of cotton he would be able to pay, and that he did not wish
to throw any obstacles in the way of the collection of the debt.
This was certainly equivalent to a direct acknowledgment
of, and promise to pay, the debt.
He did not wish to throw any obstacles in the way of the
collection of the debt. Collectio,. of the debt from whom?
From a third person over whom he could have no control?
From Barrett, who was assuredly bound, and the collection of
the debt from whom, Welch could in no way whatever retard
or obstruct ? It would be unphilosophical to suppose, that
Welch did not speak only in reference to his own liability, and
to the cLllection of the debt from himself. It was tantamount
to saying, I know I am liable for the debt; but I have no present means with which to pay; after another cotton crop, I shaU
be able to pay. I have no intention to dispute the debt. I do
not dispute the debt.
The judge of tie court of first instance assigned in the bill
of exceptions, as a reason for refusing to give this instruction
40
voL. x.

470

SUPREME COURT.
The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

to the jury, that it was matter of fact, and theiefore to be
judged of by the jury only.
We answer, that it is the province of the court to determine
what words and circumstances amount to a promise to pay, or
a waiver of a right.. This is made plain, when the supposed
promise to pay, or waiver, has been reduced to writing. In
such case, it is clear that the court must instruct the jury as to
the point of its being in law a promise or not, or a waiver or
not. The court in such case instructs the jury, that if they
believe the instrument of writing to have been executed by the
party against whom it is adduced, then such instrument
amounts in law, or does not amount in law (as the case may
require), to a promise to pay, &c.
Now, we cannot conceive any reason which could give this
power to the court in the case of a written instrument, and
yet refnse it in case the obligation is evidenced only by parol;
the question in each case is, Do the words, whether written or
not, under the circumstances, amount, in law, to a promise, &c.?
The court should then, in our opinion, have instructed the
jury, that, if they believed that Welch stated to Chambers that
be had not then the means to pay the debt, but after another
cotton crop he would be able to pay, and that he did not
wish to throw any obstacles in the way of the collection of the
debt,'or spoke to him in words to that effect, then such words
amounted to a waiver of all objections to the payment of the
debt, to an acknowledgment of his legal liability therefor, and
to a promise to the plaintiffs to pay them.
The rule attempted to be applied to this case, by the defendant, as to the necessity of knowledge on the part of M,.elch of
all the circumstances, &c., is not applicable here, because That
rule applies only when the party promising has done so without the knowledge of the fact, that notice had not been given
according to law in order to bind him. But in the case at bar,
the statements of Welch himself to Chambers show that ho
had had due notice; for Welch tells Chambers, that, on the
assurance of Barrett that the debt had been paid, he had given
up the securities, &c., which establishes that, notice had been
given, and that it came to his, Welch's, knowledge.
We think it fully established that this item of instruction
should have been given the jury.
The seventh item of instruction asked for by the plaintiffs
assumes that the giving a reasonable credit to Barrett on the
sales was no violation of the rights of Welch.
The sales in this case were made to Barrett between the 3d
May and 1st December, 1845; the four obligations of Barrett
were taken, falling due on the 20th December, 1845; 10th.January, 1846; 15th January, 1846; and 20th January, 1846.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

471

The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

The court refused to give the instruction ; and on the contrary, at the instance of the defendant, instructed the jury that
the credit given Thomas Barrett should not have been extended beyond the term mentioned in the letter of credit, viz., the
1st of December, 1845.
The case of Samuell v. Howarth, mentioned in Fell on Guaranties, pages 165, 166, 167, is directly opposed to the ruling of
the Circuit Court in this case.
The time within which sales were to be made under the
guaranty in that case extended from 2d April, 1814, to 2d April,
1815. Goods were furnished during"that period on certain credits, to be then paid for, with bills at three months, which bills
were accordingly drawn and accepted, &c. These bills were
again renewed from time to time; and the fresh bills again renewed, till June, 1816.
The Lord Chancellor said, as no stipulation was made as to
the terms of credit, he would suppose them to be in the usual
course of trade. In that case, in consequence of the frequent
and unusual extension of the time of payment, by repeated
renewals of the bills, the guarantor was held to have been discharged.
There is no necessity for a guaranty, when the terms of sale
are cash; the very nature of the undertaking presupposes a
credit; indeed, guaranty can exist only in cases in which
credit is given.
Now, the guaranty in the case at bar extended to sales
made at any time between its date, 3d May, 1845, and the 1st
of December of the same year.
It is apparent, then, that the latter part of the term, according to the ritling of the' Circuit Court, could have no effect at
all. By the terms of the guaranty, the sales made on the 30th
of November are as fully protected as those made on the 4th
day of May; but the ruling of the court would confine the
sales of the 30th of November to the short credit of twentyfour hours.
We have not a doubt this ruling of the Circuit Court is
erroneous.
The eighth item of instruction asked for by plaintiffs'assumes that the mistake of Welch as to the fact of the debt
having been paid does not release his obligation.
The court refused to give this instruction. Welch, in conversation with Chambers, the agent of plaintiffs fol collection
of the,' debt, stated to Chambers, that on the assurance of
Barrett that the debt had been paid, he, Welch, delivered up
to Barrett securities, &c., by means of which he could have
secured himself from loss.

472

SUPREME COURT.
The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

We are at a loss to conceive how the mistake of Welch as
to a fact, to look to which was his duty, can in any degree
affect the rights of the plaintiffs, who had neither any interest,
nor any authority, to meddle with the matter of indemnity
sgainst loss furnished by Barrett to Welch.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court held by the
.district judge in and for the District of Louisiana.
The suit was brought upon the following letter of credit
signed by the defendant, and "dated New Orleans, 3 May, 1845:
4I hereby guaranty the payment of any purchases of bag.ging and rope which Thomas Barrett may "have occasion to
make between this and the 1st of December next."
It appeared that this letter of credit, soon after it was given,
-was deposited by Barrett with a house in New Orleans, who,
as the factors of the plaintiffs, sold, at different periods, vithin
the time prescribed, several parcels of bagging and rope, and
delivered the same to Barrett on the faith of it, giving the usual
credit on the sales of goods of this description, and taking his
acceptances for the price, payable at the expiration of the credit
to the order of the plaintiffs.
There were four different parcels sold at different times, and
the usual credit given, on each of the sales, extended beyond
the 1st of December, the time mentioned in the guaranty.
No notice was given to the defendant by thehouse in New
Orleans, nor by the plaintiffs, of the acceptance of his letter
of credit, or of the sales made to Barrett on the faith of it.
Shortly after the maturity of the first acceptance, which was
*in.the latter part of December, the clerk of the New Orleans
house called on the defendant, and gave him notice the acceptance was unpaid, and that he would be looked to for payment; and also for the payment of the acceptances then running to maturity, if unpaid when they fell due. The defendant desired the clerk to obtain all he could from Barrett
towards the payment. Subsequently, and after all the ac-ceptances had become due and were dishonored, the clerk"had
.a second interview with him, when he expressed a wish that
he might not be pressed for the payment immediately, observing, that he did not wish to interpose any obstacle to the
collection of the demandl that he had not the means of
paying the amount then conveniently; but would have them
at the coming in of the next cotton crop.
At a still later interview, the defendant expressed the opinion,
that his letter restricted the time of credit to Barrett for the
goods to be purchased to the 1st of December, stating that,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

473

The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.
under this impression, he had delivered up to him certain
securities at the expiration of the period of the credit given,
which he held as an indemnity, Barrett assuring him at the
time that the demand had been settled.
The evidence being closed, the following instructions were,
among others, prayed for, on the part of the plaintiff, and refused.
1. That the giving a reasonable credit to Barrett on the
sales was no violation of the rights of the defendant; and that
the credits in this case were reasonable.
2. That the mistake of the defendant as to the fact of the
demand having been paid did not release his obligation.
And the court gave, among others, the following instructions 1. That after the bagging and rope had been furnished by
the plaintiffs, they should have given immediate notice to the
defendant of the amount furnished, and the sum of money for
which they looked to him for payment.
2. That the credit to Barrett should not have extended beyond the term mentioned in the said letter of credit, to wit, the
1st of December.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant.
I. We are of opinion, that the court below erred in the construction given to the terms of the letter of credit. It guarantied the payment of any purchases of bagging and rope that
Barrett might have occasion to make between its date and the
1st of December. The limitation is as to the time within
which the purchases were to be made; not as to the time of
the credit to be given to the purchaser. As credit was contemplated, indeed was the special object of the guaranty, that
which was given upon the sales of goods of this description in
the ordinary course of trade must have been intended. And,
for aught that appears in the case, this was the credit given.
The time for which credit was to be given upon the purchases is left indefinite in the instrument, and must receive a
reasonable interpretation; one within the contemplation of the
parties; and that obviously is as we have stated. Samuell v.
Howarth, 3 Mer. 272.
There might be some doubt upon the language used by the
court below on this point, whether, in charging that the credit
to Barrett should not have been extended beyond the 1st of
December, it was not intended to refer to the purchases of the
goods, and not to the period of credit given.
But when taken in connection with the seventh instruction
prayed for and refused, all ambiguity is removed.
Besides, no question appears to have been raised, that the

40 *

SUPREME

COT RT.

The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

price was claimed for any goods sold beyond the limit of the
guaranty.
IL We are also of opinion, that the court erred in the instruction, that, after the bagging and rope had been furnished
to Barrett, the plaintiffs should have given immediate notice to
the defendant of the amount furnished, and of the sum of
money for which they looked to him for payment.
The rule as laid down by this court in Douglass and others
v. Reynolds and others (7 Peters, 126) is, that, in a letter of
credit of this description, all that is required is that, whea all
the transactions between the parties under the guarant;' a c
closed, notice of the amount for which the guarantor ig Ined responsible should, within a reasonable time afterwardz, b earn
municated to him.
What is a reasonable time must depend upon the circuiastances of each particular case, and is generally a question, of
fact for the jury to determine. Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.,
2 Howard, 426.
It was also ruled in that case, that, when the debt fell due
against the principal debtor, a demand of payment should be
made, and in case of non-payment by him, that notice of such
demand should be given in a reasonable time to the guarantor,
and that otherwise he would be 'discharged from his liability.
When the case came before the court a second time, and
which is reported in 12 Peters, 497, the principle here stated
was somewhat qualified, the court holding that, in case of the
insolvency of the principal debtors, and total inability to respond to the surety before the debt fell due, the demand and
'notice might be dispensed with.
The court refers to a class of cases both in England and in
this country, drawing the distinction between the liability assumed by a guarantor, and that of the drawers or indorser of
commercial papers; the former being held liable on his guaranty in the absence of any demand and notice, unless some dam.
age or loss had been sustained by reason of the neglect; while,
-in order to charge the latter, strict demand and notice must be
shown according to the law merchant.
The authorities are very full on this, head, and are founded
-upon sound and substantial reasons. 8 East, 242; 2 Taunt.
206; 3B.&Cr. 439, 447; 1 Ib. 10; 5 M. & S. 62; 5 M. &
Gr. 559.; 9 S. & R. 198; 1 Story, 22, 35, 36; Chitty on
Bills, 324; Chitty, jr. 733; 3 Kent, Com. 123.
When this case was before the court the second time, one
of the grounds upon which a new tial was ordered was the
refusal of the court below to instruct the jury, that, if they found
the principal debtors, at or previous to the time the payment of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

475

The Louisville Manufacturing Co. v. Welch.

the debt fell due, insolvent, the omission to demand paymeylt
and give notice to the guarantor did not discharge him from
his liability. The rule, therefore, above stated, was not only
laid down very distinctly, but applied in that case in the final
disposition of it by the court.
The same doctrine is very fully stated and enforced by Mr.
Justice Story in Wilder v. Savage, already referred to; and
also laid down in his work on Promissory Notes (ยง 485), and
by Chancellor Kent in his Commentaries (Vol. IIL p. 123.)
The same course of reasoning and authority would seem to
be equally applicable to the notice required of the goods furnished or credits given under the guaranty, and on the faith of
it at the close of the transactions, and of the amount for which
the party intended to look to the guarantor for payment, so as
to advise him of the extent of his liabilities. We perceive no
reason why the rule in respect to notice should be more strict
in thi stage of the dealings of the parties, than at the time
when the debt becomes due; or that the guarantor should b;discharged for the delay in giving this notice, when no loss or
damage has resulted to him thereby. He has already had notice of the acceptance of the guaranty, and of the intention of
the party to act under it. The rule requiring this notice within a reasonable time after the acceptance is absolute and imperative in this court, according to all the cases; it is deemed
essential to an inception of the contract; he is; therefore, advjed of his accruing liabilities upon the guaranty, and may
very well anticipate, or be charged with notice of, an amount
of indebtedness to the extent of the credit pledged. Still, it
may be reasonable that he should be advised-of the actual
amount of liability, when the transactions are closed; and, if
any loss happens in consequence of the omission to give the
nbtice within a reasonable time, the fault is attributable to the
laches of the creditor, and must fell on. him.
Upon this view, the doctrine governing the question of notice at the close of the dealings orf the faith of the guaranty,
and also at the subse.quent period when the indebtedness undor
it becomes due, is consistent and reconcilable, and places the
duty of the creditor on the one hand, and the obligation of the
guarantor on the other, in both instances, upon those general
principles which have always been applied to contracts of this
description, and preser'ves and maintains throughout the settled
distinction on the subject of notice between the liability assumed by the guarantor, and that of the drawer or indorser of
commercial paper.
This intermediate notice required in this court does not appear to be a necessary step to charge the guarantor according

476

SUPREME COURT.
The Louisville Manufaeturing Co. v. Welch.

to the English cases, as notice of acceptance and intention to
act upon the guaranty is regarded as sufficient, until the debt
becomes due and payable; then reasonable notice of the default of the principal to pay must be given, as otherwise, if loss
or damage should happen in consequence of the omission, it
would operate as a discharge to that extent
Returning, then, to the case in hand, we think the court erred
in charging the jury in respect to this intermediate notice of the
goods furnished, and of the sum for which the plaintiffs intended to look to the defendant for payment, in holding that it
should be given immediately upon the closing of the dealings
under the guaranty; as reasonable notice, in the cases in which
it is required, is all the diligence that is essential in order to
comply with the rule. According to the instruction, the jury
must have understood that notice to charge the defendant
should have been as strict as in the case of a drawer or indorser
of a bill of exchange.
The eighth instruction refused, to wit, that the mistake of
the defendant as to the fact of the debt having been paid did
not discharge him, is not very intelligible; but, as a proposition
standing alone, should have been given or explained. The refusal implied that the mistake operated to discharge the defendant, which we presume was not intended. The insiruction
is incaLtiously drawn, and was, doubtless, connected with
some other matters that have not been brought into it. It was
probably connected with the facts embodied in the -first instruction, in which the court was requested to charge that the
admission of the defendant to the clerk that he had given up
certain papers to Barrett which would have indemnified him,
on his assurance that the debt had been settled, was an acknowledgrnent of due notice that the plaintiffs had sold the
goods on the faith of the letter of credit.
This instruction was properly refused, as the inference sought
to be drawn from the statement was not a matter of law. At
most, it could only be a question for the jury, accompanied
with proper directions of the court as to the law. The admissions were made more than a year ?fter the debt had become
due, and the failure of Barrett to make payment The time
when the defendant possessed this knowledge was material in
order to make out due notice, and this is not embraced in the
proposition upon which the. court was called upon to charge.
If submitted to the jury, this must necessarily have entered into
the instructions that should have been given to them.
The court was also right in refusing the fifth instruction, as
it respected the promise of the defendant to the clerk to pay,
as the effdect of the promise, if made, depended upon the ques-

DECEMBER TERII, 1850.

477

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

tion whether it was made with a full knowledge of all the faek
going to discharge him from his obligation.
This question was, therefore, properly submitted to the jury.
But, upon the grounds above stated, and principally the misconstruction of the terms of the letter of credit, which was fatal
to the right of the plaintiffs, and the error in respect to the degree of diligence to be used in giving notice of the transactions
under it, the judgment must be reversed, and the case remitted, and a venire de novo awarded for a new trial.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for 'the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Couri
with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

CHARLES J. GAYLER AND LEONARD BnowN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
BENJA IIN G. WILDER.
An assignment of a patent right, made and recorded in the Patent-Office before the
patent issued, which purported to convey to the assignee 'all the inchoate right
which the assignor then possessed, as well as the legal title which he was about to
obtain, was sufficient to transfer the right to the assignee, although a patent afterwards was issued to the assignor.
When an assignment is made, under the fourteenth section of the act of 1836, of the
exclusive right within a specified part of the country, the assignee may sue in his
own name, provided the assignment be of the entire and unqualified monopoly.
But any assignment short of this is a mere license, and will not carry with it a right
to the Lsignee to sue in his own name.
Therefore, an agreement that the assignee might make and vend the article within
certain specified limits, upon paying to the assignor a cent per pound, reserving,
however, to the assignor the right to establish a manufactory of the article upon
paying to the assignee a cent per pound.'was only a license; and a suit for an infringement of the patent right must be conducted in the name of the assignor.
Where a person had made and used an article similar to the one which was -afterwards patented, but had not made is distovery public, using it simply for his own
private purpose, and without having tested it so as to discover its usefulness, and
it had then been finally forgotten or.abandoned, such prior invention and use did
not preclude a subsequient inventor from taking out a patent.

This was a writ of error to the, Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York.
The defendant in error (who was plaintiff in the court below)
brought an action against Gayler and Brown (the plaintiffs in

