102

SUPREME COURT.
Downs v. Kissam.

viding for or regulating contracts of this kind. The rights of
the parties depend altogether upon common law and equity
principles. The object of the bill is to have this contract set
aside and declared to be forfeited; and the prayer is, ' that the
appellant's reinvestiture of title, to the license granted to the
appellees, by reason of the forfeiture of the contract, may be
sanctioned by the court," and for an injunction. But the injunction he asks for is to be the consequence of the decree of
the court sanctioning the forfeiture. He alleges no ground for
an injunction unless the contract is set 4ide. And if the case
made in the bill was a fit one for relief in equity, it is very
clear that whether the contract ought to be declared forfeited or
not, in a court of chancery, depended altogether upon the rules
and principles of equity, and in no degree whatever upon any
act of Congress concerning patent rights. And whenever a
contract is made in relation to them, which is not provided for
and regulated by Congress, the parties, if any, dispute a4ses,
stand upon the same ground with other litigants as to the right
of appeal; and the decree of the Circuit Court cannot be revised here, unless the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand
dollars.
This appeal therefore, must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be. heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and vas argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed for
the Vant of jurisdiction.

ALFRED

C. DowNs,

PLAINTIFF iN ERROR, v. JosEP r KissA.

Where the Circuit Court instructed the jury, "that, if any one of the mortgages given in evidence conveyed more property than would be sufficient to secure the debt
provided for in the mortgage, it was a circumstance from which the jury might
presume fraud," this instruction was erroneous.
Any creditor may pay the mortgage debt and proceed against the property; or he
may subject it to the payment of his debt by other modes of proceeding.

Ii error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
A writ of fieri facias issued on the 5th of January, 1842,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.-

103

Downs v. Kis.am.

'from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi, at the instance of Joseph Kissam
(the defendant in error), against one James J. Chewning, for
$2,336.22, besides costs, and was levied by the marshal, April
14th, 1842, on negro slaves Nancy and her child, Milley and
her child, Viney and her child, Tempey and her child, Mary,
Louisa, Juliana, and Charlotte, as the property of the said
Chewning; and these negroes were claimed by the plaintiff in
error as his property. And thereupon the defendant in error,
by plea, averred in the said Circuit Court, that the said slaves,
at the time, &c., were the property of the said Chewning, and
upon this plea issue was tendered and joined between the defendant in error and the plaintiff in error. This issue was tried
at November term, 1846, when a verdict passed for the defendant in error as to all the slaves except Juliana, and a bill of exceptions was tendered by the plaintiff in error; and upon the
judgment rendered upon the verdict, this writ of error is brought.
From the bill of exceptions, the case appears to have been
this.
On the trial of the issue, the defendant in error produced the
deposition of the said Chewning, taken by consent of parties.
On his examination, the counsel for the plaintiff in error exhibited to the witness a mortgage, marked A, made by him to
the Commercial and Railroad Bank of Vicksburg, dated 31st
December, 1839; and in answer to questions proposed by said
counsel, he deposed that he executed the mortgage on the day
of its date; that he then owed- the bank $ 130,000, &c. ;.that
all the slaves seized under the execution were embraced ii the
mortgage except Juliana. The counsel also exhibited to the
witness mortgages made by him, as follows: one to William M. Beal, dated 7th March, 1842, and marked B; one to
James Cuddy, dated 13th July, 1840, and marked C; one to
F. Sims, dated 13th July, 1840, and marked D; one to the
plaintiff in error, dated 8th September, 1841, and marked E;
and witness deposed to the execution of the same at the times
of their respective dates; that some of the slaves in controversy were embraced in each of the said mortgages, and in that
to the plaintiff in error, all except Juliana; that he was indebted to the mortgagees respectively in the sums mentioned in
the instruments; that all the slaves in controversy, except Juliana, were orr December 31st, 1839, in Carroll Parish, Louisiana,
and so remained until removed by the witnegs into Mississippi
in March, 1842, in consequence of his having sold his lands in
Louisiana.
The mortgages were referred to in, and adcompanied, the
deposition.

104

SUPREME COURT.
Downs v. Kissam.

Exhibit A recited a debt evidenced by a promissory note
bearing even date with the mortgage for .$ 130,000, to be paid
(as provided in the mortgage) in yearly instalments, one of
$ 500, and nine of $ 13,888.88, besides accruing interest.
Exhibit B recited a debt of $ 7,470.60, contracted in January
preceding.
Exhibit C recited a debt of $1,200, evidenced by notes
bearing even date with the mortgage.
Exhibit D recited a debt of $ 4,871.92, evidenced by a note
dated four days preceding.
Exhibit E was made to indemnify plaintiff in error as surety
of Chewning, on an administration bond in the penal sum of
50,000, and also to secure two debts, in amount $ 6,000.
On the trial, the defendant in error, having read to the jury
the whole examination of the witnesses excepting said exhibits, refused to read them to the jury; whereupon the counsel
for the plaintiff in error moved the court to exclude the Whole
deposition, which motion was overruled, and the counsel excepted.
The said counsel then read to the jury thp said exhibits, as
evidence for the plaintiff in error, and produced the note for
$ 130,000 recited in Exhibit A, which was admitted to be in
the handwriting of Chewning.
And the court, on the prayer of the defendant in error, gave
the following instructions to the jury I1st. If the jury find that any one of the mortgages conveyq
more property than would be sufficient to secure the debt provided for in such mortgage, such mortgage is fraudulent; that
is, the fact of more property being conveyed in the mortgage
than was necessary to secure the debt is a. circumstance from
which the jury may presume the mortgage was fraudulent.
2d. If a mortgage is made to cover more property than is
sufficient to pay the debt intended to be secured, for the purpose
of preventing other creditors from levying, it is fraudulent and
void, though the debt intended to. be secured be bondfide; that
is, the fact of more property being conveyed than was necessary to secure the debt is a circumstance from which the jury
may infer fraud.
3d. If the jury believe that the object of Chewning wds to
hinder, delay, or defraud his bona fide creditors by the. execution of the mortgages, then the mortgages are void, and the
jury, should find for the plaintiff in the execution; but, in coming to your conclusion on this subject,.you must recollect that
Chewning, the defendant in the execution, was authorized to
prefer one of his creditors to. another, provided his object only
was to enable such creditor to collect his debt; he 4id no right,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

105

Downs v. Kissam.

in enabling one creditor to collect.his debt, to give him control
of an amount of property much larger than was necessary to
pay the debt.
To which instructions the plaintiff in error excepted.
The case was argued by 141r. Crittenden, Attorney-General,
and Mr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and by _3r. KTey,
for the defendant in error.
On the part of the plaintiff in error, it was insisted, that the
court below erred in not requiring the defendant in error to
read the mortgages referred to in, and forming part of, the deposition of Chewning. If it was competent for the defendant
in eror to decline reading the interrogatories put to the witness
by the plaintiff in error, and compel the plaintiff in error to
read them and the answers himself, yet, having read the interrogatories and the answers referring to the mortgages, he
was bound also to read the mortgages as forming part of the
answers; unless a party is at liberty to read part of an answer
to a question, and refuse to read the residue, both parts being
pertinent and admissible evidence; which it is submitted cannot be done.
As to the instructions given to the jury, it was insisted,
1st. That the three instructions were altogether erroneous,
because there was no evidence in the cause tending in law to
show that the property mortgaged was more than sufficient to
secure the debt specified in any one of the mortgages, 'ud
therefore the question as to the value of the property in comparison with the amount of the debts could' not be rightfully
submitted to the jury; and also because there was no evidence
that before or at the time of making the mortgage of 31st December, 1839 (Exhibit A), Chewning owed any debt besides
that secured by that mortgage.
2d. That the position assumed in the first instruction, to
wit, if any one of the mortgages conveyed more property than
sufficient to secure the debt, the jury might presume the mortgage fraudulent, is not law, either as a general proposition or
as applied to this case. For first, it assumes that any excess
of value, however small, raises a presumption of fraud; whic h
is not iN any case true, it being always necessary that there be
a gross or large excess, not to be accounted for by the just
care of a prudent man, to guard against all probable contingencies. Again, it does not distihguish between general or particular assignments by the debtor for creditors, and a mortgage
to a particular creditor, or a deed of assignment to which a
creditor is a party for securing his debt; the rule as to excess,

106

SUPREME COURT.
D6wns v. Kissam.

if applying at all in the terms used by the judge, only apply.
ing to the former, and not to the latter classes of securities.
Thirdly, it does not distinguish between a mortgage voluntarily
made for securing a preexisting debt contracted upon the faith
of the debtor's personal ability only, and a mortgage taken
at the time of making a debt, as part of the security originally
contracted for, the note or bond bearing even date with the
mortgage, and forming with it one assurance, or a mortgage
given for a preexisting debt upon some new consideration moving from the creditor, to which the position assumed in the instruction has no application.
And in support of these objections it was argued, that every
mortgagee is a purchaser of the thing mortgaged so far as his
interest extends; that he has a. right to stipulate for any
amount of property to be mortgaged; just as he may demand
any number of personal sureties, and no inference against his
honesty arises from the one more than from the other; and if
this is not true of every mortgage, it is at least true where the
mortgage is taken simultaneously with the advance of money
or other creation of the debt as part of the contract; and also
where, for a former debt, a mortgage is taken upon a new consideration, as, for example, giving further credit, surrendering
other securities, &c., to which cases the rule laid down by the
judge do6s not apply.
The following authorities were relied upon :-Roberts on
Fraud, ch. 4, sec. 1, particularly pages 371 to 375, and see. 2,
page 429 to the end; Wheaton v. Sexton, 4 Wheat. 503; Freeman v. Lewis, 5 Iredell, 91; Wright v. Stanard, 2 Brock. 311;
Fullenwider v. Roberts, 4 Dev. & Bat. 278; Goss v. Neale,
5 Moore, 19; Pickstock v. Lyster, 3 M. & S. 371; Benton v.
Thornhill, 2 Marsh. 427; 7 Tenn. 149; Dewey v. Baynton,
6 East, 257; Holdbird v. Anderson, 5 T. R. 235; Riches v.
Evans, 38 E. C. L. 268 (9 C. & P. 640).
3d. As to the decond instruction, it was insisted, that it is
erroneous for the reasons given as to the first; and also because it assumes that an intent to prevent other creditors from
levying is per se fraudulent; whereas that is not true, unless
that be the only or at least the primary intent. And if the object is to give or acquire a priority for a just debt, and thereby
prevent other creditors from levying, oi to defeat one creditor
in order to prefer another, there is in law no fraudulent intent,
the object being wholly lawful. The above-cited authorities
were relied upon, and particularly Holdbird v. Anderson, Pickstock v. Lyster, Goss v. Neale, Benton v. Thornhill, and Riches
v. Evans; and also Marbury v. Brooks, 7 Wheat 566.
4th. It was insisted.that the third instruction is erroneous,

,DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

107

Downs v. Kissam.

because it makes the validity of .the mortgages depend solely
upon the intent of Chewning, without reference to the knowledge or purpose of the mortgagees; whereas, all the mortgagees being purchasers, and two of them purchasers in the
strict sense of the mortgage, as a security taken simultaneously
with the creation of the debt, are not affected by the intent of
the mortgagor, unless known to and approved or aided by them.
And also because the instruction rescinds the mortgages, if it
was any part of Chewning's purpose to hinder or delay other
creditors, although his chief purpose had been to prefer the
mortgagees; and the hindering or delaying others was only a
subordinate purpose as necessary to accomplish the leading or
chief design.
The above authorities were relied on, and particularly Wheaton v. Sexton; and also the*following: -Magniac v. Thompson, 7 Peters, 348; Harrison v. Trustees of Phillips Academy,
12 Mass. 456; Bright v. Eggleston, 14 Mass. 245; Kittredge
v. Sumner, 11 Pick. 50; Foster v. Hall, 12 Pick. 89.
11'r. Key, for the defendant in error.
The points presented are, first, that the 'court below erred in
not excluding certain evidence; and, secondly, that the court
below erred in its instructions to the jury.
1. The evidence which it is thought should have been excluded is the deposition of J. J. Chewning.
The ground upon which this exclusion is contended for is,
that the plaintiff below read to the jury only a portion of said
deposition, arid refused to read the exhibits A, B, C, D, and E.
It will be perceived that the deposition was not ex parte; it was
taken by consent, "to be read in behalf of the parties, plaintiff
and defendant" It was competent, therefore, for either party
to read portions of said deposition.
The entire deposition
was read to the jury, all the interrogatories, and the exhibits.
So, if there was error in not compelling the plaintiff below to
read such exhibits, such error was cured when the said exhibits
were permitted to be read to the jury in behalf of the defendant.
2. It is thought the principles of law applicable to the case,
and contained in the three instructions of the court below, are
erroneous.
It, is contended for the defendant in error, that said instructions are correct in law, and the following authorities are referred to. 4 Kent's Comm. 160; 2 Ib.512 to 536; Powell on
Mortgages, 79 et seq.; Hamilton v. Russel,'l Cranch, 309; Edwards v. Harben, 3 Term Rep. 587; Ryall v. Rowles, 1 Ves.
348; Worseley v. De Mattos and Slader, 1 Burr. 467; Alexan-

SUPREME

COURT.

Downs v. Kissam.

der v. Deneal, 2 Munf. 341; Clow v. Woods, 5 Serg. & Rawle,
275; Sturtevant v. Ballard, 5 Johns. 337; Crowninshield v.
Kittridge, 7 Met. 520.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the curt.
This writ of error brings before us the judgment of the Circuit Court, held by the District Judge for the Southern District
of Mississippi.
An execution having been levied on certain slaves as the
property of one James J. Chewning, at the instance of the defendant in error, which slaves were claimed by the plaintiff in
error, an issue was joined, under the laws of Mississippi, to fry
the right of property. On the trial, a mortgage was given in
evidence, executed by Chewning in 1839, long prior to the
levy, to secure to the Railroad Bank of Vicksburg a debt of
$ 130,000. This mortgage embraced all the slaves levied on,
except one. Other mortgages werc given in evidence, executed
by Chewning, to secure the payment of several other debts.
Oh the trial, the Circuit Court instructed the jury, that if
"any one of the mortgages conveyed more property than
would be sufficient to secure the debt provided for in the mortgage, such mortgage was fraudulent," and that the fact of more
property being conveyed as aforesaid was a circumstance from
which the jury might presume fraud.
This instruction is erroneous. It is no badge of fraud for a
mortgage, which is a mere security, to cover more property
than will secure the debt due. Any creditor may pay the
mortgage debt, and proceed against the property; or he may
subject it to the payment of his debt, by other modes of proceeding.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and a venire
de novo awarded.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to award a ve,zirefacias de novo.

