SUPREME COURT.

174

Hallett et al. v. Collins.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec-

ord of the Circuit Court of the United -States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
where6of, it is now here, ordered and adjudged by-this court, that

the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

WI LLIArI

R.

HALLETT AND ROBERT L. WALKER, ExEcUToRs OF JOSHUA

KENNEDY, DECEASED, JOHN G. AiKiN AND CLARISSA HIS WIFE, JOHN
H. HASTIE AND HIS WIFE SECLUDA, AUGUSTUS R. MESLIER AND HIS

WIFE, MARY AVGUSTA KENNEDY, JOSHUA KENNEDY, JAIgES INERARITY, SA'IUEL KITCHEN, WVILLIADI KIT( JEN, JAIES CAMPBELL, AND THE

BRANCH BANE OF THE STATE OF ALt-BAIA AT MOBILE, ArPELLANTS,
V. SIDNEY E. COLLINS.
In order to constitute a valid marriage in the Spanish colonies, all that was necessary was that there should be consent joined with the will to marry.
Tie ouncil of Trent, in 1563, required that marriage should be celebrated before
the paris4 or other priest, or by license of the ordinary and before two or three
witnesses. This decree was adopted by the king of Spain in his European dominions, bat not extended to the colonies, in which the rule above mentioned, established by the Partidas, was'permitted to remain unchanged.
An ecclesiastical decree, proprio vzgore, could not affect the status or civil relations of
persons. This could only be effected by the supreme civil power.
In 1803, Collins obtained from the military commandant at Mobile a permit to take
possession of a lot of ground near that place, and made a contract with William E.
Kennedy that the latter should improve it, so as to lay the foundation for a perfect
title, and then they were to divide the lot equally.
Kennedy's ownership of a hostile claim, whether held theu or acquired subsequently,
enured to the joint benefit of himself and Collins; and when Kennedy obtained a
confirmation of his title under the acts of the commissioners appointed under an
act of Congress, he became a trustee for Collins to the extent of one half of the lot.
The deeds afterwards made by Kennedy, under the circumstances of the case, did
butwith
the it.assignee, having full knowledge of the trust, must
not destroy this trust;
be held bound to comply
for an inadequate consideration, from the heirs of
releises,
obtained
This assignee
Collins, who had just come of age,'were poor, and ignorant of their rights. These
releases were void.
Before Kennedy conveyed to the assignee just spoken of, he had conveyed the prop.
erty to another person who held it as a security for a debt; and who, when the
debt was paid, transferred it to the same assignee to whom Kennedy had conveyed
it. This added no strength to ,the title, but pnly gave to this assignee a claim to
be reimbursed for the money which he paid to extinguish the. debt
)The absence of the complainant from the State, and the late discovery of 'the fraud,
account for the delay and apparent laches in prosecuting his claim.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama.
The controversy had its origin, in transactions long-anterior

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

175

Hallett et aL v. Collins.

to the acquisition of the country by the United States, and involved also the discussion of events long afterwards; so that
the case became very complicated, and the record voluminous.
Being an appeal in chancery, all the evidence was brought up
to this court. Instead Df giving a narrative of the case, it appears best to set forth the grbunds of complaint in the bill, and
of defence in the answer.
The defendant in error, Sidney E. Collins, was complainant
below in a bill in equity against the heirs and executors of
Joshua Kennedy, deceased, and others. The bill sets forth
that the complainant is both heir and deVisee of his late father,
Joseph Collins, and sole heir-at-law of his deceased brothers
George and Joseph, the co-heirs and co-devisees with himself
of his father's estate. That Joseph Collins, his father, had obtained a grant of a certain lot of land from the Spanish government, in or near the city of Mobile. That William E.
Kennedy claimed an interest in the same lands, through a
grant to one Alexander Baudain. That on the 21st of November, 1806, Collins and Kennedy entered into an agreement to
divide the land between them; Kennedy to have the northern
half, and-Collins the southern; Kennedy covenanting "to improve the lot by fencing and ditching so that it might not be
forfeited." That, in pursuance of this agreement, 'Kennedy held
possession of the lot, and made the -necessary improvements,
during the time that Spain held possession of the territory.
That when it came into possession of the United States, the
Collins and Baudain permits )or claims were both laid before
the commissioners. That the first report of Mr. Crawford, the
commissioner, wa. unfavorable to both. That Collins being at
this time dead, his claim was not reiived by Kennedy, but it
was renewed under the Baudain grant alone, and in July, 1820,
a favorable report was made in favor of Kennedy in virtue of
the Baudain grant, and the legal title confirmed in him by the
act of the 8th of May, 1822. That in the niean time, to wit,
on the second day of larch, 1820, a deed was made by W. E.
Kennedy reciting the original agreement between ' Collins and
himself, and conveying the southern half of the lot to James
Inerarity, the administrator of Collins, for the use of the estate,
with a covenant for further assurance to Inerarity or the heirs
of Collins, gn the issuing of the-patent for the land. The bill
also charges, that about this time W. E. Kennedy became very
intemperate; that his brother Joshua, who had unbounded influence over him, and was a witness to the deed to Inerarity,
and acquainted with the title of Collins's heirs in the property,
contrived a scheme to defeat it and defraud the heirs. That in
pursuance thereof he obtained a deed from W. B. Kennedy to

SUPREME COURT.
Hallett et al. v. Collins.

Samuel Kitchen, his father-in-law, for the Collins half of the
lot, antedated so as to appear to be prior in date to the deed
to Inerarity. That Joshua Kennedy transacted the business in
Kitchen's name, at first without his (Kitchen's) knowledge, and
paid the consideration, if any was paid, and afterwards took a
transfer from Kitchen to himself, for a nominal consideration.
That in 1824, in further pursuance of the same scheme, he procured a deed from W. E. Kennedy for all his property, and,
among other things, a claim or grant from the Spanish government to one Price, of a very suspicious character, which had
been rejected by the commissioners. That having succeded in
obtaining a confirmation of the Price claim in 1829, he surv&yed it over the claim of Baudain previously confirmed to W.
E. Kennedy in right of Baudain, in 1822, and took a patent
under it. That this was done for the purpose of complicating
J e title and defrauding the heirs of Collins. The bill charges,
also, that Joshuia Kennedy, in further prosecution of this scheme,
had tertain proceedings entered on the docket of the Circuit
Court of Mobile in the name of William Kitchen against
James Inerarity, and- without bill, answer, or pleadings of any
kind to furnish any key to the claim of Kitchen, a decree was
entered, in pursuance of which Inerarity made a deed to Kitchen
for the Collins half of the land, in consideration of Kitchen
paying to him a debt claimed by Forbes & Co. (of which firm
Inerarity was a partner) against Collins's estate, amounting to
the sum of $ 2,233 ; the property conveyed being then worth
$75,000, and now. $ 200,000. That having thus complicated
the title of the heirs of Collins to the land in dispute, Joshua
Kennedy applied to George and Sidney E. Collins, the heirs,
as soon as they came of age, representing that their claim was
of no value whatever, and utterly hopeless, but that, for the sake
of peace and quieting his title, William Kitchen was willing to
give them each the sum of $ 1,000. That by means of these
fraudulent misrepresentatiors he obtained deeds from them to
Kitchen releasing their claims. That William Kitchen was a
brother-in-law of Joshua Kennedy, and a young man without
means residing in the family of Kennedy, and his name was used
by hitn for a cover; and that he took a conveyance from Kitchen
as soon as the complete title was supposed to be thus fully
vested in him by these fraudulent sch emes and contrivances.
The bill prays for a conveyance-of -the land, and an aceount
of rents and profits.
The matters of defence set forth in the several answers of
the defendants, and relied upon in the argument of the case,
were substantially as follows: 1. That the will of Joseph Collins was not properly proved.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

177

Hallett et al. v. Collins.

2. That the complainant and his brothers were- illegitimate,
and therefore incapable of inheriting from their father or from
one another.
3. That Collins had no valid claim to the property. That
his concession was abandoned after its rejection, and no possession ever taken under it, nor any attempt made by Collins
or his heirs to obtain a title under it.
4. That Joshua Kennedy held the lot under a grant from
the Spanish government to Thomas Price, and a confirmation
of the same by the United States, and a patent issued in 1837.
5. That the deed to Inerarity was "a special transaction,,
and not a recognition of title in Collins's heirs, given to enable
Inerarity to recover a debt due from Collins's estate to John
Forbes & Co., or as a compromise." That the deed to Samuel
Kitchen was prior in date to that of Inerarity. That Kitchen
-was a bona fide purchaser without notice; that he paid for the
land through Joshua Kennedy, who was indebted to him; and
that in pursuance of his purchase Kitchen took possession of
the lot and made improvements, and afterwards gave Joshua
Kennedy a written obligation to convey to him; and that the
"transaction was closed" in 1834, by his making a deed to
William Kitchen at the request of Joshua Kennedy.
6. That the title of Collins, whatever it was, if any, was
extinguished and transferred to William Kitchen by the deed
of Inerarity made under a decree of the court, and in consideration of the paymefit of the debt claimed by Inerarity in behalf of Forbes & Co. against Collins's estate.
7. That the claim of complainant was -extinguished by
his own release and that of his brother to William Kitchen
for a consideration paid by Joshua Kennedy.
8. And lastly, the answers, denying all fraud, insist that the
full value of the property was paid by Kennedy to the administrator and heirs; and that the sale and releases so made
have been acquiesced in by complainant for many years, without any offer to return the consideration or annul the deeds,
until after the death of Joshua Kennedy.
The immense mass of evidence taken under the authoriy
of the Circuit Court occupied a printed volume of nearly fi, e
hundred pages. The following is an abstract of the point5
which the complainant sought to establish. It is not necessary
to refer to the evidence irr support of each point.
1. That the plaintiff claimed the south half of the Baudin claim in Mobile as the devisee of his father, and the
heir of two brothers, under a Spanish grant to his father andarticles of agreement between his father and William E. Kennedy, and possession under them, and a deed confirmatory of
*them.

178

SUPREME COURT
Hallett et al v. CollinE.

.2. That the title of Alexander Baudain became perfect by
the confirmation of the United Statts, under an act of Congress dated 8th May, 1822, relative to claims of lots in Mobile.
3.' That a fraud was practided in the deed made by-William
E. Kennedy to Samuel Kitchen, and that Joshua Kennedy was
a party to it.
4. The participation of Joshua Kennedy in the preparation
of the deed to Samuel Kitchen, his beneficial interest in that
deed, and his conception of the fraudulent design, are shown by
the use that was made of it, by the relations betweeA the parties, and by the fact that all the benefits flowing from it came
to him.
5. That Joshua Kennedy brought forward the claim of
Price, for the fraudulent purpose of superseding the Baudain
claim, in which Collins had an interest, and thus obtaining the
whole for himself..
6. That Kennedy, after having obtained a confirmation and
location of the Price claim, purchased from the children of
Collins all their rights, under circumstances which show the
purchase to .have been invalid.
7. That the deeds from the children of Collins were made
to William Kitchen, and ought to be set aside.
8. That William Kitchen conveyed to Joshua Kennedy, who
obtained a patent in 1837 for the Price claim; covering the
land in which Collins had an interest.
9. That the children of Collins left the State of Alabama,
napd the fraud was not discovered until after the death of
Joshua Kennedy (in 1838); and in the progress of a suit which
ensued thereupon. The plea of limitations therefore does not
apply.
10. That the purchase money paid to the children of Collins
was greatly below the real value of the property.
On. the other hand, the points which the defendants endeavored to establish by the evidence were the following.
1. That Joseph E. Collins was never married to Elizabeth
Wilson.
2. That the agreement in 1806, between William E. Kennedy-and Joseph E. Collins, was not a settlement of conflicting
claims under the Baudain grant.
3. That Kennedy had a, right to waive the conditional concession from Collins, and throw himself upon his own better
title; and that, in fact, he did disavow all title derived from
Collins.
4. That the deed made in 1820; from William E. Kennedy
to Samuel Kitchen, was not fraudulently made for the benefit
of Joshua Kennedy.

DECEM-BER TERM, 1850.

179

Hallett et al. v. Collins.

5. That the purchase made by Joshua Kennedy from the
children of Collins was fair and bond fide; that their interest
was only contingent, after paying their father's debts; that the
property was a marsh liable to be overflowed, and at the distance of several squares from the business parts of the city,
whose value was entirely speculative; and that Kennedy paid
as much as their interest in it was worth.
6. That Joshua Kennedy never attempted to complicate the
title or obscure the rights of other persons.
7. That the enhanced value of the property is owing entirely
to Joshua Kennedy's industry and judgment in reclaiming and
defending it at great expense; and that a court of equity
should not deprive his heirs of this advantage without clear
proof of fraud.
It has already been mentioned, that the evidence taken in
the cause was very voluminous to sustain the above positions
upon both sides, some of which indeed are rather inferences
in law than distinct allegations of fact.
But the two classes are so intermingled together, that it appeared impossible to separate them and yet give a thorough
explanation of the case.
On the 13th .of April, 1847, the cause came on for argument in the Circuit Court, which xendered the following decree, viz.: "SIDNEY E. COLLINS v. Tn HEIRs AND Ex EuToRs OF
JOSHUA KENNEDY.

cause this day came on to be heard, and it is brdered,
adjudged, and decreed, that the deeds of Sidney E. Collins and
his brother, George Collins, to William Kitchen, be set aside,
and that the representatives of Joshua Kennedy account for
the rents and profits received from the said south half of the
said lot of land, and also the money derived from the sale of any
portion thereof, together with interest thereon, and that the
said representatives be allowed for all permanent improvements made on the said land; also the money paid to Sidney
E. and George Collins, with interest; and that it be referred to
the master to take an account between the parties, in conformity to the principles of this decree."
19This

From this decree, the defendants appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Hopkins, and A1r. 1?everdy Johnson,
for the appellants, and Mr. . A. Campbell, for the appellee.
Their arguments were so blended of matters of fact as deduced
from the evidence and matters of -law arising thereupon, that

180

SUPREME COURT.
Hallett et al. v. Collins.

it is impossible to make an accurate report of them without
going too much into detail.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
It will not be necessary, in the consideration of this case, to
notice particulirly the great mass of documents and testimony
pread upon the record, further than to state the results as they
affect the several points raised by the pleadings and argued by
the counsel.
1. The first of these in order is that which relates to the
sufficiency of the probate of the will of Joseph Collins, under
whom the complainant clairrs. But as his claim to two thirds
of the property in dispute is through his deceased brothers, he
is compelled to remove the objection which has been urged to
his and their legitimacy; and if he can succeed in this, and
thus establish his right by descent, the decision of the question
as to his title by devise will be unnecessary. We shall therefore proceed to examine the second point, as to the legitimacy
of the complainant.
2. It is not denied that the complainant and his deceased
brothers Joseph and George were the children of Joseph Collins by Elizabeth Wilson, but it is contended that the parents
were never legally married.
The evidence on this subject is as follows. Joseph Collins
resided in the country south of the 31st degree of north latitude, between the Iberville and Perdido, and died there about
the year 1811 or 1812, while that country was still in the
actual possession of the Spanish government. In the year
1805 he resided in Pascagoula. Elizabeth "Wilson resided also
'in the same place, and in the family of Dr. White, who was
a syndic or chief public officer in that place. A contract of
marriage was entered into by Joseph Collins and Elizabeth
Wilson before Dr. White, who performed the marriage ceremony. The parties continued to live together as man and
wife, and were so reputed, till the death of Collins. It is true
that some persons did not consider their marriage as valid, because it was not celebrated in presence of a priest, while others entertained a contrary opinion. It is in proof also, that
Collins himself, when he made his will, entertained doubts on
the subject.
It is a, matter of history, that many, marriages were. contracted in the presence of civil magistrates, and without the
sanction of a priest, in the Spanish colonies which have since
been ceded to the United States. Whether such marriages
.are to be treated as valid by courts of law is a question of
some importance, as it may affect the titles and legitimacy of

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

181

Hallett et al. v. Collins.

many of the descendants.of the early settlers. It is not the
first time that it has arisen, as may be seen by the cases of
Patton-v. Philadelphia, 1 Louisiana Annual Reports, 98, and
Phillips v. Gregg, 10 Watts, 158.
The question, then, will be, whether an actual contract
of marriage, made before a civil magistrate, and followed by
cohabitation and acknowledgment, but without the presence
of a priest, was valid, and the offspring thereof legitimate, ac!
cording to the laws in force in the Spanish colonies previous
to their cession.
That marriage might be validly contracted by mutual promises alone, or what were called sponsalia de presenti, without
the presence or benediction of a priest, was an established
principle of civil and canon law antecedent to the Council of
Trent. (See Pothier du Contrat de Mariage, Part II. ch. 1;
Zouchb, Sanchez, '&c.; and Dalrymple v. Dalrymple, 2 Haggard's Consistory Reports, 54, where all the learning on this
subject is collected.)
Whether such a marriage was sufficient by the common law
in England, previous to the marriage act, has been disputed
of late years, in that country, though never doubted here.
(See the case of The Queen v. Milis, 10 Clark & Fin. 534.)
On the Continent, clandestine marriages, although they subjected the parties to the censures of the Church, were not only
held valid by the civil and canon law, but were pronounced
by the Council of Trent to be "vera matrimonia." But a different rule was established for the future by that council, in their
decree of the 11th of November, 1563. This decree makes
null' and void every*inariage not celebrated before the parish
or other priest, or by license of the ordinary, and before two or
three witnesses.
But it was not within the power of an ecclesiastical decree,
proprio viore, to affect the status or civil relations of permons.
This could only be effected by the supreme civil power. The
Church might punish by her censures those who disregarded
her ordinances. But until the decree of the council was adopted and confirmed by the civil power, the offspring of a clandestine marriage, which was ecclesiastically void, would be 'held
as canonically legitimate. In France the decree of the council was not promulgated, but a more stringent system of law
was established by the Ordonnance de Blois, and others which
followed it. In Spain it was received and promulgated by
Philip the Second in his European dominions. But the laws
applicable to the colonies consisted of a code issued by the
Council of the Indies antecedent to the Council of Trent, and
are to be found in the code or treatise called Las Siete Partidas
1
vOL. x.

182

SUPREME COURT.
Hallett et al. v. Collins.

and the Laws of Toro. The law:of marriage as contained in
the Partidas is the same as that which we have stated to be
the general law of Europe antecedent to the council; namely,
"that consent alone, joined with the will to marry, constitutes
marriage." We have no evidence, historical or traditional, that
any portion of this' code was ever authoritatively changed in
any of the American colonies; nor has it been shown, that in
the "Recopilacion de los Indies," digested for the government
of the colonies by the order of Philip the Fourth, and published
in 1661, nearly a century after the Council of Trent, any change
was made in the doctrine of the Partidas on the subject of
marriage, in order to accommodate it to that of the council. It
may be supposed, that, as a matter of conscience and subjection
to ecclesiastical superiors, a Catholic population would in general conform to the usages of the Church. But such conformity
would be no evidence of the change of the law by the civil
power. Indeed, the fact that the civil magistrates of Louisiana
had always been accustomed to perform marriage ceremonies,
where the parties were Protestants, or where no priest was
within reach, is conclusive evidence that the law of the Partidas had never been changed, nor the decree of the pouncil of
Trent promulgated, so as to have the effect of law on this subject in the colony. The case of Patton v. Philadelphia, already referred to, shows the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana on this subject, which, on a question relating to the
early history and institutions of that country, should be held
conclusive.
3. These pre",minary* questions being thus disposed of, our
next subject of inquiry must be, whether Joseph Collins had
any right or t'itle to the land in dispute whieh descended to
and vested in his heirs.
โข On the 3d of January, 1803, Joseph Collins, who was captain of dragoons and surveyor of the district, made application
to Don Joaquim de Osorno, military commandant of Mobile,
and obtaihed a permit, in the usual form, to take possession of
a certain lot of marshy ground therein described, near to or in
the city of Mobile.' The permit was dated on the 26th of April,
1803." This, though merely an inception of - title, was capable
of being ripened into a legal title by possession and improvement, which would give him a right to call on the IntendantGeneral to perfect his grant by a-complute title. In order to
keep up his possession and improvement on this lot, Collins
entered into agreement under seal, dated the 21st of November,
1806, with William E.'Kennedy, by which Kennedy covenanted to improve the lot, "so 'that, by fencing and ditehing,.the
said lot may not be foiffited, and that he will begin to improve

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

183

Hallett et al. v. Collins.

said lots inmediately. By this agreement, Collins was to
have the south half of the lot, and the north half was to be conveyed to Kennedy.
Whether Kennedy was at this time the owner of the Baudain claim to the same lot, and the compromise of their conflicting claims was in part the consideration of this contract, or
whether the Baudain claim was first purchased by Kennedy in
1814, when its transfer bears date, is a question of no importance in the case. For it is clearly proved that Kennedy took
and held possession of the lot, and made the 'improvements in
pursuance and under his contract with Collins. And whether
we consider him as agent, partner, or tenant of Collins, his purchase of another claim would enure to. their joint benefit. He
could not use the possession and improvement made for Collins to complete an imperfect and abandoned grant to Baudain,
as was done, and by such act exclude Collins from his half of
the lot. The deed which Kennedy afterwards gave to Inerarity shows clearly that he entertained no such dishonest intention. For after acknowledging by this deed his contract with
Collins, and stating his intention to complete the title under
the 3andain permit or grant, he proceeded to substantiate his
title before the commissioners by proving the possession arid
improvements made by him under his contract with Collins as
the meritorious foundation of his claim; and thus obtained a
favorable report from the commissioners fnder the Baudain
grant, which had been before rejected for want of such proof.
By the act of Congress of the 8th of May, 1822, ยง 2, all
claims to lots in the town of Mobile, on which favorable reports
had been made by the commissioners, "founded . on orders of
survey, requettes, permissions to settle, or other written evidence of claims, derived from either the French, British, or
Spanish authorities, and bearihg date before the 20th of December, 1803, and which ought in the opinion of the commissioners to be confirmed, were confirmed in the same manner as
if the title had been completed."
By this act, the legal title to this lot became vested in William E. Kennedy. A patent would be but further evidence
of a title which was conferred and vested by force of the act
itself. Having thus obtained the legal title in his own name,
Kennedy required no deed from Collins or his representatives,
but became seized thereof for his own use as to the northern
half, and for the use of Collins, or in trust for his heirs, as to the
southern. Inerarity might have maintained an action of covenant on his deed, and compelled him to transfer the legal title
by a further assurance. There might be some question, perhaps, whether the legal estate did not immediately vest in Ine-

184

SUPREME COURT.
Hallett et al. v. Collins.

rarity by estoppel. But as the conveyance is a deed poll, in
the nature of a quitclaim and release, without a warranty, and
with a covenant foi further assurance to Inerarity, or the heirs
of Collins', it most probably would not. But for the purposes
of this case the question is wholly immaterial. Inerarity, as a
creditor of the estate of Collins, would have a right to demand
the payment of his debt, before he should make a transfer to
the heirs. But whether as holder of the legal or equitable estate in trust, his beneficial interest amounted to no more.
Some objections have been urged to the view we have taken
of thib transaction, on the ground that the contract made in
1806 with Collins was' not binding. But although we cannot
perceive the right of persons who have purchased the legal title from Kennedy, with full notice of the trust, to object to a
contract which Kennedy has executed, we shall proceed to notice them. "The first objection is, that Collins did not sign the
indenture or articles of agreement of 21st November, 1806, and.
was therefore not bound to convey to Kennedy; and there was
therefore no consideration which could make the deed binding
on him. But the deed on its face purports to be an indenture,
of which Collins, from the nature of the transaction, would be
holder of the counterpart, signed by Kennedy. The original,
which is signed by the grantor, would be in possession of Kennedy the grantee, who cannot object to the validity of his covenani because a paper is not produced which; if in existence, is
in his own possession. Much less could he be heard to make
this allegation after -the contract has been executed by bis own
ded sealed and delivered in pursuance of it.
-It has been objected, also, that the original contract with Collins was void as against the policy of the law. But it was certainly not against the policy of the laws of Spain, under which
it was made; for it was a fulfilment of the conditions of the
grant made to Collins. And it cannot well be said to be contrary to the policy of the laws of the United States, who have
confirmed the land to Kennedy in virtue of the very -possession
and improvements made in pursuance of the contract.
Thus far, Ihen, we have in 1822 the legal title to the whole
lot vested in W. E. Kennedy, in trust, as to the southern half,
for the heirs of Collins.
4. What, then, was the effect of the deed made to Samuel
Kitchen, dated, or antedated, some two months bWfore the deed
to Inerarity ?
The circumstances which tend to show that this deed was
made after that to Inerarity, and for the purpose, if possible, 9 f
defeating
it, are very strong and convincing.
st. Joshua
Kennedy, who acted as the agent for Kitchen; or

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

185

Hallctt et aL v. Collins.

used Kitchen's name for his own purposes, was a witness to the
deed to Inerarity, and ruade no objections nor suggestions that
he had bought and paid for this lot a fe~v days before as agent
of Kitchen, -a circumstance not easily accounted for, if such
had been the fact. 2d. The deed to Kitchen was acknowledged
after that to Inerarity, at the same time with another deed from
MIT. E. Kennedy to Joshua Kennedy, containing property previously sold to Inerarity, and having the same witness, Diego
McBoy. "1And 3dly. The frequent declarations of Joshua,
Kenne'dy that the object of the deed made to Kitchen, through'
his intervention, was to defeat Inerarity's claim to that property." And lastly, the fact that Samuel Kitchen gave Joshua
Kennedy an obligation to convey the lot to him on request;
which was afterwards fulfilled by giving his deed to William
Kitchen for a nominal consideration; and that William's name
was used by Kennedy for the purpose of covering and complicating the transaction.
But it is a question of no importance in the case, whether
the deed to Samuel Kitchen was delivered on the day it bears
dateor that on which it was acknowledged. He was not the
purchaser of a legal title without notice of a secret equity. The
rule with regard to purchasers of a mere equity is, Priorin ternpore potior injure.
The equitable title of Collins, of which the deed to Inerarity
contained a new acknowledgment, had its origin at least as far
back as 1806. So that, even if we could bring ourselves to believe that Joshua Kennedy, whether acting for.Kitchen or himself, had purchased and paid his money without notice of the
title of Collins's heirs, it would not enable him to defeat their
claim. The legal title first became vested in W. B. Keinedy
in 1822, and passed by his deed of 1824 to Joshua Kennedy,
with full knowledge of the trust. His attempt to defeat it, by
covering the land with the vagrant and probably fraudulent
claim under Price, after he had obtained the legal title from
the United States, was as unsuccessful as the first, and wholly
inoperative, except to show the shifts and contrivances resorted
to, in order "to defeat Inerarity's claim."
5.We come now to the consideration of the valihty of the
deeds of release obtained from George and Sfdney E. Collins,
in 1829 and 1830.
At this time the property had risen in value, with a prospect
of a much greater increase; and the frailty of the title was
but too transparent to a man of the judgment and shrewdness
of Joshua Kennedy, notwithstanding the means used to obscure it. The heirs had just come of age. They were ignorant of the nature or value of their title. Kennedy is not only
16 *

ISO

SUPREME COURT.
Hallett et al. v. Collins.

in possession of their land!, but of the legal title. He persuades
them to release their title to William Kitchen for the sum of
one thousand dollars each; a sum which, to young men just
out of their apprenticeship, poor, and ignorant of their rights,
would appear large and attractive. Kennedy is well acquainted with the nature and value of their claim; they are wholly
ignorant of it. He informs them that their claim is worthless,
but that Kitchen was willing to give them this sum for the sake
of-peace and quieting his title. Besides, he had so complicated
and covered up the title, that it was impossible that they could
comprehend it, or know the value of their claim, if the documents had been laid before them. Under such circumstances
should a chancellor hesitate in setting aside the releases, if it
appeared that the title thus obtained was for a consideration
much below the value of the property? It needs no citation of
authorities 'to show that deeds Qbtained under such circumstances would be held void.
6. The transfer by Inerarity of the equitable trust title held
by him, can add nothing to the validity of Kennedy's title.
Whether transferred by him voluntarily, or through the medium
of a decree in chancery, can make no difference in this case.
Nor is Inerarity liable to any imputations of collusion or improper conduct in the matter. He was bound to transfer his
title to the heirs on payment of his debt. And when their releases to Kitchen were produced, by which he appeared to be
substituted to their rights, Inerarity, who was ignorant of the
means used to obtain them, might justly believe that he was
bound to convey to him. He did so, after consulting counsel,
and after a decree in equity. Such a decree would be made as
a matter of course. But its effect would only be to substitute
Kitchen or Kennedy to the rights of Inerarity. The title would
be still subject to the trust for Collins's heirs, and unless their
title was vested in Kennedy by these releases, he held the land
still subject to their rights. But when the releases to the heirs
are setaside, Kennedy is entitled to recover the money paid to
Inerarity, as there is no allegation that the debt claimed by
Forbes & Co. against Collins's estate was not justly due.
But before leaving this part of the case, it will be proper to
notice an objection urged with so_ . plausibility in the -. gnment. The record exhibits much contradictory testimony as to
the value of this property at the time the releases were executed, and it-has been contended that Kennedy paid the full value
for it, being altogether over $ 4,000.- After such a length of
time, it may be expected that the estimates of witnesses from
recollection will, differ widely. But when we look at the public assessments, and the sales of contiguous property ibout the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

187

Sears v. Eastburn.

same time, which are the best tests, it would seem that the
boast of Joshua Kennedy himself, that '"le had bought for
$ 4,000 property worth $ 40,000," was not an exaggeration of
the truth. But assuming the true value to have been one half
that sum, and taking into consideration the facts and circumstances already stated, we think the Circuit Cort was fully justified in setting aside these conveyances, and decreeing that
the defendants should account.
7. The absence of the complainant from the State, and the
late discovery of the fraud, fully account for the delay and
apparent laches in prosecuting his claim, which have been objected to, on the argument.
The decree of the court below is therefore affirmed, but with
this addition: "that the master, in taking the account of
rents, profits, sales, &q., shall allow to the defendants the sum
paid to James .Inerarity for his claim against the estate of
Joseph Collins."
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now'here ordered, adjudged
and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
costs, and with this addition: "that the master, in taking the
account of rnts, profits, sales, &c., shall allow to the defendants the sum paid to James Inerarity for his claim against the
estate of Joseph Collins" ; and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, tR be proceeded
with in conformity to the opinion of this court.

SHERBURNr SEARS, PLAINTIrF IN ERROR, v.

JOSEPH R.

EASTBURN.

The act bf Congress passed in May, 1828 (4 Stat. at Large, 278), -directs that the
forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of the United States, in suits at
common law in the States, admitted into the Union since 1789, shall be the same
with those of the highest court of original jurisdiction in the State.

Therefore, where the State of Alabama passed an act to abolish fictitious proceedings in ejectments, and to substitute in their place the action of trespass for the
purpose of trying the title to lands and recovering their possession, the Circuit

Court of the United States should have conformed, in its mode of proceeding, to
the law bf the State.
And the judgment of the Circuit Court, dismissing an action of trespass so brought,
upon the ground that the law of the State was not in force in the Circuit Court,
was erroneous.

