DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

187

Sears v. Eastburn.

same time, which are the best tests, it would seem that the
boast of Joshua Kennedy himself, that '"le had bought for
$ 4,000 property worth $ 40,000," was not an exaggeration of
the truth. But assuming the true value to have been one half
that sum, and taking into consideration the facts and circumstances already stated, we think the Circuit Cort was fully justified in setting aside these conveyances, and decreeing that
the defendants should account.
7. The absence of the complainant from the State, and the
late discovery of the fraud, fully account for the delay and
apparent laches in prosecuting his claim, which have been objected to, on the argument.
The decree of the court below is therefore affirmed, but with
this addition: "that the master, in taking the account of
rents, profits, sales, &q., shall allow to the defendants the sum
paid to James .Inerarity for his claim against the estate of
Joseph Collins."
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now'here ordered, adjudged
and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
costs, and with this addition: "that the master, in taking the
account of rnts, profits, sales, &c., shall allow to the defendants the sum paid to James Inerarity for his claim against the
estate of Joseph Collins" ; and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, tR be proceeded
with in conformity to the opinion of this court.

SHERBURNr SEARS, PLAINTIrF IN ERROR, v.

JOSEPH R.

EASTBURN.

The act bf Congress passed in May, 1828 (4 Stat. at Large, 278), -directs that the
forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of the United States, in suits at
common law in the States, admitted into the Union since 1789, shall be the same
with those of the highest court of original jurisdiction in the State.

Therefore, where the State of Alabama passed an act to abolish fictitious proceedings in ejectments, and to substitute in their place the action of trespass for the
purpose of trying the title to lands and recovering their possession, the Circuit

Court of the United States should have conformed, in its mode of proceeding, to
the law bf the State.
And the judgment of the Circuit Court, dismissing an action of trespass so brought,
upon the ground that the law of the State was not in force in the Circuit Court,
was erroneous.

188

SUPREME COURT.
Sears v. Ekstburn.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama.
In August, 1845, Sherburne Sears brought an action of trespass quare clausum fregit, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama. The short note,
expressive of the cause of action, filed at the time of issuing the
writ, declared it to be "as well to try titles as to recover damages," &c., and the declaration described a particular lot in the
city of Mobile, where the trespass was alleged to have been
committed.
In April, 1846, the counsel for the defendant moved the
court to dismiss the suit, because the statute of Alabama entitled " An Act to abolish fictitious proceedings in ejectment,
and for other purposes therein mentioned," approved December 17, 1821, under which the suit was brought, did not extend
to the Circuit Court; and the court, being of that opinion, dismissed the suit.
The plaintiff sued out a writ of error, and brought the case
up to this court.
It was argued by 31r. Sewall, for the plaintiff in error.
The -plaintiff contends that the action of trespass in this
case wa§ maintainable in the Circuit Court of the United
States in Alabama, and Was therefore improperly dismissed.
1st. By an act of Alabama, approved December 17, 1821, the
action of trespass was substituted for that of ejectment (Clay's
Dig., p. 320, "§§ 43, 44, 45), and has ever since remained a
remedy for trying the title to, and ,recoyering possession, of,
lands. It was in force at .the time of the passage. of the act
of Congress of the 19th May,'1828 (4 Stat. at Large, 278),
and was therefore adopted by that act as a part of the "forms
and modes of proceeding in suits" in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Alabama. Beers v. Haughton, 9 Peters,' 357; Strachen v. Clyburn, 3 McLean,
174. It is a remedy in.constant use in Alabama, and has been
before this court in City of-Mobile v. Eslava, 16 Peters, 235 ;
Same v. Iall'ett, Ibid. 261. The declaration may be in the
usual form of trespass quare clausumfregit. Carwile v. House,
6 Ala. 710.
In -IHagan v. Lucas, 10 Peters, 400, the Circuit Court of
the United States at Mobile entertained a suit for the trial of
the right of property under an act of Alabama of the 24th De:
ceinber, 1812, and its judgment was affirmed by this court.
2d. By the eleventh section of the Judicihry Act of 24th
September, 1789 (1 Stat. at Large, 78), " The Circuit Courts

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

189

Sears v. Eastburn.

have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the
several States, of all suits of a civil nature at common law and
in equity," &c. Common law in this act must be taken in
contradistinction to equity; and may well embrace the action
of "trespass," applied by a State statute'as- a remedy for trying the title to land.
:3d. It is a remedy in respect to real estate, and the general
rule is, that such remedies are to be pursued according to the
law of the place where the estate is situated. Robinson v.
Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212, 219.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of tne court.
The point in this case is a narrow' one, and concerns only
the practice in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
It appears that in 1821 an act was passed by the legislature
of that State to abolish fictitious proceedings in ejectment;
and to substitute in their place the action of trespass, for the
purpose of trying the title to lands and recovering the possession.
In the case before us, an action of trespass was brought by
the plaintiff in error against the defendant, for the purpose of
recovering a certain parcel of land to which he claimed title.
The writ was indorsed in the manner required by the statute
of Alabama; and the declaratiofA was in the usual form of an
action of trespass. There does not appear to have been either
plea or demurrer put in by the defendant, nor any issue of fact
or law joined between the parties. But the defendant by his
counsel moved the court to dismiss the suit, upon the ground
that the law of the State was not in force in the Circuit Court
of the United States; and the district judge then holding the
Circuit Court, being of that opinion, dismissed the suit, and
gave judgment in favot of the defendant for his costs.
This decision is evidently erroneous.
The act of May,
1828 (4 Stat. at Large, 278), in express terms, directs that the
forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of the United
States, in suits at common law in the States admitted into the
Union since 1789, shall be the same with those of the highest
court of original jurisdiction in the State. Alabama is one
of the States admitted since 1789; and the act of Congress,
therefore, makes it obligatory upon the courts of the United
States to conform in their mode of proceeding to the law of the
State. The law of the State of itself, undoubtedly, was not
obligatory upon the courts of the United States. But'it is
made so by the act of Congress.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be reversecr, with costs.

SUPREME COURT.

190

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this
cause b6, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions for further proceedings to be had therein,
in conformity to the opinion of this court, and as to law and
justice shall appertain.

WILLIAI

E.

WOODRU"FF,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
TRAPNALL.

v0. FREDERICK W.

In 1836, the legislature ,of Arkansas chartered A bank, the whole of the capital of
which belonged to the State, and the president and directois of which were appointed by the General Assembly.The twenty-eighth section provided, "that the bills and notes of said institution shall
be received in all payments of debts due to the State of.Arkansas."
In January, 1845, this twenty-eighth section was repealed.
The notes of the bank which were in circulation at the time of this repeal, were not
affected by it.
The undertaking of the State to receive the notes of the bank constituted a contract
between the State and the holders of these notes, which the State was not at liberty to break, although notes issued by the bank after the repeal were not within
the contrac4 and might be refused by the State.
Therefore, a tender, made in 1847, of notes issued by the bank prior to the repealing
law of 1845, was good to satisfy a judgment obtained against the debtor by the
State ; and it makes no difference whether or not the debtor had the notes in his
possession at the time when the repealing act was passed.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas.
On the 2d of November, 1836, the State of Arkansas passed
an act to incorporate the Bank of the State'of Arkansas. The
capital was one million of dollars, which was raised by a sale
of the bonds of the State, or by loans founded upon those
bonds. The president and directors were appointed by a joint
vote of the General Assembly. All dividends upon the capital
stock were declared to belong to the State, subject to the con-

trol and disposal of the legislature.
The twenty-eighth section was as follows, viz. -" That the
bills and notes, of said institution shall be received in all pay-

ments of debts due to the .State of Arkansas."

The other

