SUPREME COURT.

190

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this
cause b6, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions for further proceedings to be had therein,
in conformity to the opinion of this court, and as to law and
justice shall appertain.

WILLIAI

E.

WOODRU"FF,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
TRAPNALL.

v0. FREDERICK W.

In 1836, the legislature ,of Arkansas chartered A bank, the whole of the capital of
which belonged to the State, and the president and directois of which were appointed by the General Assembly.The twenty-eighth section provided, "that the bills and notes of said institution shall
be received in all payments of debts due to the State of.Arkansas."
In January, 1845, this twenty-eighth section was repealed.
The notes of the bank which were in circulation at the time of this repeal, were not
affected by it.
The undertaking of the State to receive the notes of the bank constituted a contract
between the State and the holders of these notes, which the State was not at liberty to break, although notes issued by the bank after the repeal were not within
the contrac4 and might be refused by the State.
Therefore, a tender, made in 1847, of notes issued by the bank prior to the repealing
law of 1845, was good to satisfy a judgment obtained against the debtor by the
State ; and it makes no difference whether or not the debtor had the notes in his
possession at the time when the repealing act was passed.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas.
On the 2d of November, 1836, the State of Arkansas passed
an act to incorporate the Bank of the State'of Arkansas. The
capital was one million of dollars, which was raised by a sale
of the bonds of the State, or by loans founded upon those
bonds. The president and directors were appointed by a joint
vote of the General Assembly. All dividends upon the capital
stock were declared to belong to the State, subject to the con-

trol and disposal of the legislature.
The twenty-eighth section was as follows, viz. -" That the
bills and notes, of said institution shall be received in all pay-

ments of debts due to the .State of Arkansas."

The other

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

191

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

sections of the act were in the usual form of conferring general
banking powers.
In 1836, William E. Woodruff 'was electe t by the General
Assembly of Arkansas Treasurer of the State, and on the 27th
of October, 1836, executed a bond to James S. Conway, Governor of the State, in the penal sum of three hundred thousand
dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as
treasurer. There were seven sureties, whose names it is not
necessary to mention. The time for which Woodruff was to
serve was two years, "and until his successor shall be elected
and qualified." His term of office was thus from the 27th of
October, 1836, to the 25th of December, 1838.
On the 23d of March, 1840, the State of Arkansas brought
a suit upon this official bond against the principal and sureties
in the Pulaski Circuit Court. Thq breach alleged was, that
Woodruff had not paid over to his successor the sum of
. 2,395.18. It is not necessary to trace the history of this suit;
suffice it to say, that it eventuated in a judgment against
Woodruff for $ 3,359.22 and costs.
On the 10th of January, 1845, the legislature passed an act
relating to the revenue of the State, the nineteenth section of
which provided that, "from and after the 4th of March, 1845,
nothing shall be received in payment of taxes or revenuie due
the State, but. par funds.'
In the progress of the- suit, Frederick W. Trapnall had become regularly substituted in place of the Attorney-Qeneral,
to conduct the suit.
In 18-17, Trapnall ordered an execution upon the judgment
which the State had obtained against Woodruff, who, on the
24th of February, 1847, tendered and offered to pay to Trapnall the sum of $ 3,755 in the notes issued by the Bank of the
State of Arkansas, which Trapnall refused to receive.
On the 25th of February, 1847, Woodruff filed a petition in
the Supreme Court of the State, praying for an alternative
writ of mandamus, commanding Trapnall to "receive and accept, in payment of the judgment, the notes of the Bank, or to
show cause why he shall refuse to do so." The writ was issued accordingly.
To this writ the following answer was filed "The answer of Frederick V. Trapnall, attorney for the
State pro tern., to an alternative mandamus hereto annexed,
issued by the Suprem6 Court on the petition of William E.
Woodruffi
" This respondent'admits the judgment and tender as set out
in the said petition, but alleges that he was not authorized to

192

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. 'TrapnalL

receive the said Arkansas State Bank notes; because the twenty-eighth section of the bank charter, under Which alone the
said Woodruff could claim a right so to satisfy the said judgment, was repealed by an act of the legislature of the State of
Arkansas, approved January 10, 1845, and entitled, "An Act
making appropriations for the years 1845, 1846, and part of the
year 1844, and for balances due from the State, and for other
purposes," and by the nineteenth section of the said act.
"And this respondent submits to the court, if the repeal of
the said section does not deprive him of all authority to receive
the said bank-notes from the said Woodruff in satisfaction of
the said judgment in favor of the State of Arkansas against
him and others: Respectfully,
" FREDERICK W.

TRAPNALL."

To this answer Woodruff demurred, and there was a joinder
in demurrer.
Before the argument, the following agreement was filed by
the counsel of the respective parties.
"Be it remembered, that the following matters are agreed
upon by the counsel for the petitioner and respondent in this
cause, to the end that the same may be filed and become a
part of the record herein.
"1st, The record'and proceedings in the case of William E.
Woodruff, and the said .perspns named in said petition as his
securities, against the State of Arkansas, upon the first and
second writs of error remaining in this court, and which are
referred to in said petition, shall form a part thereof by such
reference, as fully as though the same were incorporated therein
at full length.
"2d. That said respondent, as attorney of record for said
State in the suit aforesaid, is the proper officer by law to receive
and acknowledge satisfaction of said judgment.
"3d. That the notes of the Bank of the State of Arkansas,
referred to in said petition and response, and tendered in this
case; were issued by said bank, pursuant to the charter thereof,
prior to the year 1840.
"4th. That after the creation of said bank, down to the
year 1845, the notes of said bank were received- and paid out
by said State in discharge of all public dues to and from said
State.
"5th. That said bank continues to exist, with all its corpo-.
rate functions, and that in the consideration of this case all the
acts of the General Assembly of said State, affecting said bank,
shall be deemed to be public laws, as they have been heretofore
decided by this court to be, and whereof this court will judi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

193

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

cially take notice; but to the end thereof, and for greater certainty, the act of said General Assembly, entitled I An Act to
incorporate the Bank of the State of Arkansas,' approved November 2d, 1836, is here inserted at full length, and made part
of the record in this cause, and which act-of incorporation is in
the words following." (Then followed the charter of the bank
in extenso.)
One of the grounds of the demurrer was the following: "1st. That the nineteenth section of said act, entitled ' An
Act making apropriations for the years 1845,1846, and part of
the year 1844, and for balances due from the State, and for other
purposes,' approved January 10th, 1845, is a law impairing
the obligation of contracts, and is repugnant to the Constitution
of this State and of the United States, and therefore void."
On the 28th of July, 1847, the Supreme Court of Arkansas
overruled the demurrer, and on the 30th of July Woodruff sued
out a writ of error to bring the case up to this court.
It was argued by 111t. Lawrence and Mr. Reverdy Johnson,
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr.Sebastian,for the'defendant in error.
The following extract from the brief filed by Mir. Lawrence
shows the ground upon which he -placed his argument. Of the
argument of 1r. Johnson, the reporter has no notes.
The question presented is an important one. It is whether,
under the Constitution of the United States, a State can violate her solemn pledges, break her plighted word, and annul
her sacred and deliberate contracts and promises. One would
think it not a difficult question; and surely we should have
supposed the mere statement of it enough, without a word of
argument, had not the highest tribunal of a -State decided in
favor of this monstrous power, and announced principles which,
as it seems to us, are at variahce with sound, well-settled, and
universally admitted principles of constitutional and national
morals.
We say the question 'is an important one. It is, whether
-States and *sovereignties are governed by the rules of ordinary
honesty; whether the provision in the Constitution, that the
obligation of contracts shall by\ no law be impaired, is mere
brutum firnien. For there is to doubt that private honesty
cannot long survive when public dishonesty is legalized ; that
private promises and obligations will not long be held sacred,
when the judiciary, the guardian of the public morals, admits
and argues that the State may, at pleasure, violate her pledges
and promises; that public and private morals are intimately
connected; and that a despotic government, that kept her faith
VOL. X.

17

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. Trapnall.

and held her pledge and promise sacred and inviolable, would
be far preferable to a republic whose promises were but ropes
of sand, her public faith a mockery, and her plighted honor the
mere oath of a dicer.
The Supreme Court of Arkansas denies that the twentyeighth section of the charter so incorporated itself into the contract as to become a part of it, and holds such a position fallacious. One would think, on the contrary, it was self-evident.
That court says that the position isa fallacy, because "the ac
by which the State Bank was created was nothing more than
a grant of power for certain purposes therein specified, which
was exclusively under the control of the legislature, and consequently subject to be repealed at any time, whenever, in the
wisdom of that body, it should seem expedient for the good of
the country." That, so far as it means that the legislature
could repeal the charter, and end the existence of the bank, we
admit. But the court proceeds to say that, on such repeal, the
notes of the bank would become valueless, and the debt evidenced by thcm extinguished. And they further assert, that
the provision allowing the debtors of the State to pay in notes
of the bank was a mere gratuity; a privilege, on condition
they should pay before the repeal of the law.
This i, the whole argument, or rather series of assertions,
used by the court. It assumes that a repeal of the act would
repeal, and could constitutionally repeal; the promise and
pledge contained in the twenty-eighth section; that, indeed, it
is no pledge, but a privilege gratuitously conferred, on condition the law was not repealed. Now, is this true? At first
blush, it would seem extraordinary that any such conclusion
could ever have been arrived at. If an individual was about
to issue his notes to serve as currency, would it be a gratuity
if he promised to receive them in payment of debts due him?
It might just as well be said that his promise to pay them was
a gratuity. One would be just as much e gratuity as the
other.
Suppose A wishes to induce me to loan money to B, and
take for it his note, and, in order to do so, tells me that, if I
will loan the money on B's giving me his note for the amount,
he (A) will, at any time, receive it in payment of any debt
I, or any holder of it, may owe him. Suppose he puts this in
writing, and seals it. is this promise a gratuity ? On the contrary, it is a valid promise, for a good and valuable consideration. If it is not, in every case where a man becomes security
for another, it is a gratuity. If we need an apology for quoting authorities to sustain a self-evident proposition, lying on
the very surface of the law, it must be found in the fact that so

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

195

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

trite and common and fundamental a principle is actually denied by the Supreme Court of a State.
That such a promise is not a gratuity, but a valid contract,
for good consideration, was established before cases were reported. It is repeated in a multitude of cases, and denied nowhere. Baily v. Croft, 4 Taunt 611; Suffield v. Bruce, 2 Stark.
175; Brown v. Gdrbrey, Gouldsb. 94; Kirkby v. Coles, Cro.
Eliz. 137; Stadt v. Dill, 9 East, 348; Leonard v. Vredenburgh,
8 Johns. 29; Hunt v. Adams, 5 Mass. 362; Howe v. Ward,
4 Greenl. 195; Minet's Case, 14 Ves. 189 Violett v. Patton,
5 Cranch, 142, 152.
The twenty-eighth section of the charter of this bank is not
a law, in any sense of the word. Municipal law is a rule
of civil conduct prescribed by the supreme power of a state.
(1 Kent, 446.) Statute law is the express written will of the
legislature, rendered authentic by certain prescribed forms and
solemnities. (Ibid.) The word law, in its most general and
comprehensive sense, signifies a rule of actiQn (1 Bl. Com. 38);
a rule of action prescribed by some supreme being. (Ibid.) Municipal law is a rule of civil conduct, prescribed by the supreme
power in a.state (1 Bi. Com. 46), commanding what is right,
and prohibiting what is wrong. (Ibid. 53.) The operation of
a law must be from the supreme power or state, upon the individuals or corporations, or some of them, composing it. It
must be an exercise of the power of government. If I order a;
child to learn a task, that is a law; but if I, at the same time,
promisE. him a reward for doing it, this is no law, but.a promise. It is no exercise of the paternal power.. An act of the
legislature may be in part a law and in part a contract. So
far as it is a contract or promise, founded on a valid Consideration, it binds the state just as it does an individual; and the
former can no more repeal such a contract than an individual
can repeal his bond.
It is perfectly well settled in this court, that a legislative act
may be a contract, and that whenever it is so, and absolute
rights have vested under that contract, a repeal of the law cannot divest these rights; and that, if the act of annulling them
is legitimate, it is rendered so by a power applicable to the
case of every individual in the community. Fletcher v. Peck,
6 Cranch, 135.
It is too well settled, by too many cases in this court and.
elsewhere, that a legislative grant is a contract, to argue that;
why it is a contract, is equally well settled. The indicia of a
contract between a state and individuals are the same as betwe.n man. and man. If a grant, which is a gratuity, is a
contract, because it vests a right, a for iori is the promise in

196

SUPREME

COURT.

Woodruff v. TrapnalL

this case - for it is no gratuity, but a valuable promise - a
good and valuable consideration. By this promise the State
became the surety of the bank, as to all the paper that institution might issue. Certainly a suretyship, based on, and supported by, a consideration good in law, is a contract, and one
of the highest obligation. It is not necessary to argue whether
it is executed or executory. In either case it contains obligations binding on the parties. Fletcher v; Peck, 6 Cranch, 137.
It is far from being true, that every act which a State does,
she does as sovereign. When she takes stock in a banking
corporation, she assumes the character of an individual, and as
such is subject to all the ordinary obligations which could be
incurred by an individual under like circumstances.
Certainly no court will deny the capacity of a State to contract with other States, or with her citizens or citizens of other
States. Sovereignty of course includes that power and capacity. If competent to contract, she may do it by a legislative
enactment, or by a contract executed by her agents in pursuance of a law, or by implication. And if she can contract at
all, the twenty-eighth section of this charter is unquestionably
a contract. The gran t of a franchise to one corporation is an
implied contract that the State will not confer the itlentical
franchise on another corporation, and this implied contract is
rendered irrevocable by the Constitution. Dartmouth College
v. Woodward, 4 Wheaton, 518.
Two parties are necessary to form a perfect contract, but the
assent of both need not be given at the same time. Judge
Story gives, as an instance to prove this, in Dartmouth-College
v. Woodward, an act declaring that all persons, who should
thereafter pay into the public treasury a stipulated sum, should
be tenants in common of certain lands belonging to the State,
and declares that to be clearly a contract with a person afterwards born, who should pay the stipulated sum into the treasury. Would he not have given quite as strong an instance, if
he had said that a promise by a State to receive certain paper,
about to be issued in payment of all debts due her, was a contract with every person who should afterwards take it, that she
would receive it from them? Undeniably, this position would
have needed as little argument as the other. Both are toc
plain to admit of argument.
That agreements .between two Stb4es constitute a contract
within the meaning of the Constitution, was expressly held in
Green: v. Biddle, 8 Wheaton, 1. The definition there given of
a contract is, that it is an agreement to do or not to do certain
acts, and it is said expressly that the Constitution of the United
States embraces all contracts, executed or executory, whether

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

197

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

between individuals or between a State and individuals; and
that a State has no more. power to impair an obligation into
which she herself has entered, than to impair the contracts of
individuals. The same principle was declared in Briscoe v.
Bank of Commonwealth .of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 257; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 514.
In the State of New Jersey -v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 165, it was
held that a legislative act, declaring that land which should be
purchased for certain Ifidians should not thereafter be subject
to any tax, was a contract, and could not be rescinded by a
subsequent legislature. It was held that this privilege was
annexed to the land, and not to the persons of the ludians,
and was a contract in favor of their vendees. It might as well
have been said that that privilege was a gratuity, as the one
which is so called by the Supreme Court of Arkansas in this
case.
The notes in these cases were given in May, 1842. At that
time the twenty-eighth section of the charter stood unrepealed,
an act which attempted to repeal it not being passed until January, 1845. It is certainly neither denied nor deniable, that,
when the notes were given, they were payable, at the option
of the debtor, in notes of the bank. They are expressly made
payable "in specie or its equivalent," to show that they might
be paid otherwise than .inspecie. As the law then stood, at
least, the notes of the State bank were, to our State herself,
equivalent to specie. It is too well settled to need argument or
authority, that a law which authorizes the discharge of a contract by the payment of a smaller sum, or at a different time,
or in a different manner, than the parties have stipulated, impairs the obligation, by substituting for the contract of the
parties one which they never entered into, and to the per-'
formance of which, of course, they have never consented.
Hinkley v. Marean, 3 Mason, 88; Sturges v. Crowninshield,
4 Wheat. 122.
Suely a law which prevents the debtor from discharging a
bond in the manner and with the funds with Which it could
hver been discharged when made,-in which it was agreed,
when it was made, it might be discharged, - is void for pfecisely the same reason. The wit of man can observe no difference.
It seems to fis that this is a case in which it needs only to
apply to the most trite and ordinary principles of law and
honesty. Fides observanda est, is a maxin older than the law.
Upon its observance depend all reverence for government, all
respect for authority, all confidence in mankind, all law, and
the whole system of morals. If the decision of the court be17*

198

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v T'apnall.

low is the law of the land, and a true application of the
national Constitution, let Punicafides cease to be a proverb.
That such a doctrine could be announced anywhere among
us .goes far to prove that America was first discovered and
peopled by the Phcanicians.
The conduct of nations is governed by the same rules of
morality and honesty that govern individuals. The day has
gone by, at least on this continent, when power can sanction
and justify iniquity. Might no longer makes right. Thanks to
our national Constitution, a new code of national morality has
sprung into existence; and it is no longer possible for a State,
even if she be plend fide a sovereignty, to violate her solemn
pledges, and make her firmest faith as cheap as the empty
wind.
One is grieved and ashamed to be compelled to argue a
question like this in the nineteenth century, ana under a free
government. Perhaps it would have been better to say, with
Judge Story, in Thorudike v. The United States, 2 Mason,
1 :-" By the statutes of the United States, under which
treasury-notes have from time to time been issued, it is enacted, that all such notes shall be receivable in payments to the
United States, for duties, taxes, and sales of public lands, to
the full amount of principal and interest accruing, due on such
notes. It follows, of course, that they are a legal tender in
payment of debts of this nature due to the United States, and
by the very tenor of the act public officers are bound to receive
them."

Mr. Sebastian for the defendant in error laid down the following propositions: That the twenty-eighth section of the charter was not a contract within the-meaning of the prohibitory clause of the Constitution of the United States.
That it was simply a law, in its just and legitimate sense,
and as such repealable by the legislature at any time.
The most important question which arises, and at the very
threshold of the case, is whether the stipulation of the twentyeighth section of the charter of the bank was a contract. That
a law in form may in reality be a contract, is admitted; that it
may partake of both features and perform both functions, is
denied. It must be one or the other. Law is a rule, not compact. One is a command of the supreme power, and an exercise of authority; therother is the agreement of the parties, and
the exercise of will. The one is supreme, because it ema.nates from the sovereign power; the other is obligatory, because of the assent of the parties. The contracts of the State

DECEMBER "'ERM, 1850.

199

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

are valid, not because they are .acts of the sovereign power,
in a legislative form, but because they. are its compacts for a
consideration with others, as a corporate person. In this last
respect, the State is not sovereign; not more than she is when
a corporator, partner, stockholder, or trustee. No doubt, if a
State in form of law make a grant, deemed an executed contract, she may not resume it. If she in the same form make
a contract with individuals, when it is accepted it is equally
obligatory, and under the protection of the Constitution. Such
was the doctrine of this court in Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch,
87. And in New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164. These
latter cases, however, quoted by appellants, have no bearing in
this case, as they are instances in which the contract was express, conveyed property rights, and left no doubt from their
nature that they were contracts. It is not believed that this
court has ever in this class of cases gone beyond the protection of vested rights of property from resumption. No case
has ever pushed this doctrine any further. Rights of the character just mentioned never, indeed, needed the protection of
the Constitution, and most probably never, in point of fact, entered into the intention of its framers. They exist not under
the Constitution, but above it, and independent of it. Still,
beyond this class, the courts have not construed laws'to be
contracts, except in the charters of private corporations, which
stand upon a different footing, and of which I shall say more
hereafter. The principle has been extended to its utmost tension, and cannot go further, without an undue and unnecessary
restraint upon the rights of the States in the regulation of their
civil institutions and policy adopted for their internal government. Such was not intended, as is admitted in Dartmouth
College v. Woodward. It would be of most mischievous consequence, if every law which'promised a general benefit or advantage, which indicated -a particular policy, or ventured upon
an untried experiment, should be deemed a'compact with the
citizen to adhere to it for ever. The legislation of a State
would be fettered by so many restraints, that it would become a mere register of its contracts, rather than a code of its
laws. It would only be potent for mischief, and impotent for
good, possessing the strange faculty of perpetuating evil, without the power to arrest or correct it. To give stability to law,
it is not necessary to perpetuate its mischief.
It is admitted that, when a contract is clearly expressed or
necessarily implied, no considerations should induce its violation; but then the opposite extreme should be avoided, by
which too sacred a regard is paid 'to private right, and too little
to public necessity. This prohibition being in derogation and

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. Trapnalb,

restraint of the rights of legislation of the States over subjects
peculiarly within their sphere, should be, if not strictly constried, at least warily watched, lest it go further than any
necessity warrants. Much more so, when in this case the
prohibition is sought to be extended to the almost utter annihilation of State sovereignty. Every State, of necessity, must
be left "andisturbed in the exercise of these powers, essential
to its preservation and safety. Among these, the chief one is
the power over its finances and credit, of laying and collecting
taxes. So essential is this, that it is almost impossible to conceive of a government without a treasury. Upon the full enjoyment of this prerogative depends the faithful performance
of all the functions which devolve upon a State. Without it,
how can government be established or maintained, its credit
preservedy its depts paid, its obligations discharged, its laws
administered, and its trusts performed? How impotent for
self-preservation is the State, when, under the pressure of an
overruling necessity, she resorts to every resource and every
power, calls upon every axm and every purse, if she must stay
the last mighty struggle for existence until she redeems all the
issues of a defunct and insolvent bank. There are periods in
the history of every nation when laws and constitutions are
inadequa~te and Teeble for their task, when resort must be had
to that brief code, " Salus republicce, suprema est lex." It is the
law of necessity. Constitutions are built upon it. They may
suspend, but can never.subvert it. What state has never found
a period when she did not resort to it? What nation that
has not found the preservation of faith inconsistent with its
necessities? In plainer terms, What nation has not suspended or repudiated her obligations? And where are the countless millions of Continental money, which the necessities of the
Revolution forced into circulatibn, and which the poverty of
its exchequer as quietly buried in oblivion? May not a nation
legitimate its own bankruptcy, as well as that of the citizen?
When the prohibition of the Constitution is to be extended
in restraint of a necessary and essential power of State sovereignty,-the control of its revenue and the performance of its
trustk, -it may lie justly expected that it should be to protect
a clear and an undoubted right from violation. Thdse principles were asserted in a most forcible manner by the Chief Justice in an analogous case of Providence Bank v. Billings and
Putnam, 4 Peters, 514. Speaking of the taxing p6wer, he says,
-"
As the whole community is interested in retaining it undiminished, that community has a right to insist that its abandonment ought not to be presumed in a case in. which the deliberate purpose of the State to abandon it does not appear2

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

201

Woodruff v. TrapnalL

The power of collectingtaxes and prescribing the manner in
which they may be paid, is a most essential part of the taxing
power. These principles were again distinctly approved in
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 547. A
useful illustration of the imischief from such provisions being
regarded as contracts, and the highest evidence that it was not
so intended, are afforded in the very case before the court. The
bank was authorized by its charter to issue $ 3,000,000 upon
its $1,000,000 of capital. The State revenue ordinarily amounts
to'less than 8 100,000 per annum. In the event of a total insolvency, of the bank (and it has nearly approached that), The
revenues of the State would have been absorbed for years, besides the utter swallowing up of every trust fund with which the
munificence of Congress had invested her. The Seminary,
Five per Cent., Salt Springs, Common Schools, Distribution,
and Internal Improvement funds, all would have been swept
away; potent evidence that the trst funds were not meant by
"debts due the State:"
It is difficult to conceive how any law, in the administration
of which, the citizens may be interested, may not as well be
considered a contract as the twenty-eighth section of the charter. It certainly possesses the same indicia*of contracts.
We have but to say, that the law prescribing a thing to be
done, is a pledge that it shall be done, and the conversion is
complete. Such is the case with all the laws for the administration of justice, the collection of revenues, and the regulation
of the internal police of the State. In all these, certain duties
are imposed upon the public officers as the agents of the States.
Yet these laws are subject to repeal, and often inflict inconvenience and disappointment. The law in question is but a direction of the State to the treasurer, prescribing the character
of funds which he may receive for her revenues; and it would
be strange, indeed, if any"such law was not, from its very nature, repealable. In one sense, the twenty-eig.hth section was
no part of the charter;- it found a place among the enactments
which constituted the law of the corporation. It formed no
part of the law of its' being; it was a part of the fiscal regulations and revenue laws of the State, and as such might well be
altered, modified, or altogether repealed, whenever the public
good required it. It contained no pledge to the bank; that
was a public corporation in which the State was sole proprietor, aiid alone interested. It was none to the government of
the bank, for they were public officers of a public "civil .institution," employed in the administration of the government,
who might, with the corporation which they governed,, have
been instantly, at any moment, annihilated by a total repeal.

2M2

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. Trapnall.

It conferred no immunity, franchise, or privilege. It contained
no pledge to the bond holders who advanced the capital of the
bank. As to them, the seventeenth section of the charter gave
them only a pledge of +he faith of the State for the principal
and interest of the capital alone. As to the holder of the notes,
it was the pledge which every law contains, that it will be executed while in force, and no longer. That the provision thus
enacted formed a contingent and auxiliary consideration, in
giving currency and value to the notes of the bank, may be
true. That it was the object and aim of the law, is not Lo be
believed. It facilitated the collection and disbursement of the
public revenue, while the bank remained the fiscal agent and
depositary of the State. Had the bank been witheut a cash
capital, it might be presumed that tlfe State by this means
sought to lend credit to its notes, and then they would have been
within the meaning, if not the spirit, of" bills of credit." They
derived their legal and permanent value from their being the
bills of a specie-paying bank, with a cash capital, resources,
and property of its own, amenable in court, and tangible to an
execution. The Constitution only authorized the General Assembly to pledge "-the faith of the State to raise the funds
necessary to carry into operation the bank." This was done.
Nothing beyond this was either done or intended to be done.
It might \vith equal truth be asserted, that other provisions of
the charter, which ga ;e to the n6tes of the bank a contingent
value, were also contracts with the note-holder, such as the deposit of the various trust funds of the State, the revenues of
the State,, the Internal Improvement fund afterwards acquired
by the State, the duration of the charter, the franchises, powers,
and privileges of the bank. These wire all contingent and remote auxiliaries, which lent additional confidence to the public
in the resources of the bank. Yet it is not denied that they
were not contracts. These provisions O.ere all subsequently
repealed without question. But for the act of 1845, ihe revenues of the State would to this day have been collected, and
the whole of the public creditors paid, as for years previously
ithey had been in the depreciated notes of this institution.
Again, this section had all the indiciaz of a' law, none of a
contract. Law, according to the most comprehensive and intelligible definition, "is a rule of civil action, prescribed by the
supreme power of a State, commanding what is right, and
to aand
definition
less
according
is wrong";
prohibiting
whator,shall
be done,
prohibiting
technical," what
commanding
what shall not be done." It is a command froni a superior to
an inferior, to do or not to do. When addressed to the citizens at large, it-orms The civil jurisprudence of a country;

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

203

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

when it is directed to the public officers of the State, it forms
its public and political law. All laws" creating public, mtnicipal, or political corporations, are of this class, over which the
legislative power of a State is not restrained by the Constitution. They,. from their nature, must be repealable, without
any other limitation than that property held by such cdrporations shall be still secured for the use of those for whom, and at
Whose expense, it has been acquired. Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518. " The character of civil institutions does not grow out of their incorporation, but out of the
manner in which they are formed, and the objects for which
they are created. The right to change them is not founded on
their being incorporated, but on their being the instruments of
government, created for its purposes." "The same institutions,
though not incorporated, would be public institutions, and of
course controllable by the legislature." Ibid. 638.
The distinction between public and private corporations was
thus defined:-" If a charter be a mere grant of political power; if it create a civil institution, to be employed in the administration of the government; or if the funds be public property
alone, and the government alone be interested in the management of them, the legislative power over them is not restrained
by the Constitution." It thus possessed all the features of a
law. The whole charter was but law. On the contrary, this
provision contained no portion of a contract. Law only becomes c6mpact when it requires and obtains the assent of the'
other parties to it. It has been shown that the only legal value
of the notes df the bank was as obligations of the bank. The
quality which they possessed from beiag receivable at the
State treasury was incidental, and, like a legal quality or
privilege imparted to any other estate or property, could be
withdrawn at the pleasure of the State. As obligations of the
bank, they could not be reached by a legislative repeal of the
charter.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Arkansas.
An action was brought by the State of Arkansas in the
Pulaski Circuit Court, against the plaintiff in error, and his
sureties, Chester Ashley and others, upon his official bond as
late Treasurer of State, for the recovery of a certain sum of
money alleged to have been received by himr, as treasurer, between the 27th day of October, 1836, and the 26th day of December, 1839. And a judgment was recovered against him
and his gecurities, on the 13th of June, 1845 r for $ 3,359.22

204

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. Trapnall.

and costs. Ani execution having been issued on the judgment,
on the 24th of February, 1847, the plaintiff tendered to the defendant in error, who prosecuted the suit as Attorney-General,
the full amount of the judgment, interest, and costs, in the
notes of the Bank of the State of Arkansas, which were refused.
The above facts being stated in a petition to the Supreme
Court of Arkansas on the 25th of February, 1847, an alternative mandamus was issued to Trapnall, the defendant in error,
to receive- the bank-notes in satisfaction of the judgment, or
show cause why he shall refuse to do so.
On the return of the mandamus; the defendant admitted the
judgment and tender of the notes; but alleged that he was not
authorized to receive them in satisfaction of the judgment, because the twenty-eighth section of the bank charter, under which
alone the plaintiff could clairh a right so to satisfy the judgment,
was, repealed by an act of the legislature, approved January
10th, 1845.
It was agreed by the parties, tlhat the record of the judgment
should be made a part of the proceeding; that the defendant
was the proper officer by law to receive satisfaction of the judgment; that the notes'tendered were issued by the bank prior
to the year 1840, and that down to the year 1845 the notes of
the bank were received and paid out by the State, in discharge
of all public dues; that the bank continues to exist with all
its corporate functions.
The court were of opinion, that the return of the defefidant showed a sufficient cause for a refusal to obey the man-ate of-the writ, and gave judgment accordingly.
The twenty-eighth section of the bank charter, -which was
repealed by the- act of 1845, provided "that the bills and
notes of said institution shall be received in all payments of
debts due to the State of Arkansas." And the question raised
for consideration and, decision is, whether the- repeal of tb's
sectiorr brings the case within the Constitution of the United
States, which prohibits a State from impairing the obligations
of a contract.
The bank charter was passed on the 2d of November, 1836,
"wVith a capital of one million of dollars, to be raised by a sale
of the bonds of the State, loans, or negotiations, together with
such other funds as may now or hereafter belong to, or be
placed under the control and direction -of the State"; the principal bank to be located at the city of Little Rock, and its
concerns to be conducted by a presidert and twelve directors,
to be appointed by a joint vote of the General Assembly.
Branches were required to be established, the presidents and
-directors where'of were to be lected in the same manner.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

205

Woodruff v. Trapuall.

The president and directors were to have a common seal,
were authorized to deal in bullion, gold, silver, &c., purchase real
property, erect buildings, &c., issue notes, make loans at eight
per cent. on indorsed paper, or on mortgages, within the State;
a general board was constituted, who were to make report of
the condition of the bank annually, to the legislature, and perform other duties; and any debtor to the bank, "as maker or
indorser of any note, bill, or bond, expressly made negotiable
and payable at the bank, who delays. payment," should have
a judgment entered against him on a notice of thirty days.
Some doubt has been suggested, whether the notes of this
bank were not bills of credit within the prohibition of the Constitution. We think they cannot be so held, consistently with
the view taken by this court in the case of Briscoe v. The
Bank of th6 Commonwealth of Kentucky, 11 Peters, 311. It
was there said, that, "to constitute a bill of credit within the
Constitution, it must be issued by a State, on the faith of the
State, and be designed to circulate as money. It must be a
paper which circulates on the credit of -the State, and is so
received and used in the ordinary business of life."
The bills of this bank are not made payable by the State.
A capital is provided for their redemption, and the general
management of the bank, under the charter, is committed to
the president and directors, as in ordinary banking associations.
They may in a summary manner obtain judgments against
their debtors. And although the directors are not expressly
made liable to be sued, yet it is not doubted they may be held
legally responsible for an abuse of the trust confided to them.
The entire stoc of the bank is owned by the State. It furnished the capital nd receives the profits. And, in addition to
the credit given to the notes of the bank by the capital provided, the State declares in the charter, they shall be received
in all payments of debts due to it. Is this a contract? A
contract is defined to be an agreement between competent
persons, to do or not to d6 a certain thing. The undertaking
on the part of the State is, to receive the notes of the bank in
payment from its debtors. "This comes within the definition
of a contract. It is a contract founded upon a good and valuable consideration; a consideration beneficial to the State,
as its profits are increased by sustaining the credit, and consequently ixtending the circulation, of the paper of the bank.
With whom was this contract made? We answer, with the
holders of the paper of the bank. The notes are made payable to bearer; consequently every bond fide holder has a right,
under the twenty-eighth section, to pay to the State any debt
he may owe it, in the paper of -he bank. It is a continuing
VOL. X.
18

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. Trapnall.

garanty by the State, that the notes shall be so received.
Such a contract would be binding on an individual, and it is
not less so on a State.
That the State had the right to repeal the above section
may be admitted. And the emissions of the bank subsequently are without the guaranty. But the notes in circulation at
the time of the repeal are not affected by it. The holder may
still claim the right, by the force of the contract, to discharge
any debt he my owe to the State in the notes thus issued.
It is argued that there could have been violated or impaired
no contract with the plaintiff in error, as it does not appear he
had the notes tendered by him in his possession at the time
the twenty-eighth section was repealed.
It is admitted that he had the notes in his possession at the
time he made the tender, and that they were issued by the
bank before the repeal of the section; and nothing more than
this could be required.
The guaranty of the State, that the notes of the bank should
be received in discharge of public dues, embraced all-the bills
issued by it; the repeal of the guaranty was intended, no
doubt, to exclude all the notes of the bank then in circulation.
Until the repeal of the twenty-eighth section, the State continued to receive and pay out these notes. Up to that time,
no one doubted the obligation of the State to receive them.
The law was absolute and imperative on the officers of the
State. The holder of the paper claimed the benefit of this
obligation, and it is supposed his right could never have been
questioned. The notes were payable to bearer, and the bearer
-was the only person who had a right to demand payment of
the bank, or to pay them into the State treasury in discharge
of a debt. The guaranty included all the notes of the bank in
circulation as clearly as if on the face of every note the words
had been engraved, "This note shall be received by the State in
payment of debts." And that the legislature could not withdraw. this obligation from the notes in circulation at the time
the guaranty was repealed, is a position which can require no
argument. Any one had a right to receive them, and to test
the constitutionality of the repeal.
Suppose a State legislature should pass a law authorizing
the drawers of promissory notes, payabld to bearer, to -discharge
the same by the payment of produce. Would such a law
affect the rights of the bearer? The contract would stand,
and the law would be declared void. A standing guaranty by
a ndercantile house, to receive in payment of its debts all notes
drawri by a certain other house, is valid, on the ground that
the notes were taken on the credit of such guaranty. It may

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

207

Woodruff v. Tra]nall.

be terminated by a notice; but when so terminated, are not all
the notes good against the guarantors, which were executed and
circulated prior to the notice? Who could commend the justice
of guarantors, who should endeavorr to avoid responsibility, on
so clear a principle ? Louisville Man. Co. v. Welch, post, 461.
A State can no more impair, by legislation, the obligation
of its own contracts, than- it can impair the obligation of the
contracts of individuals. We naturally look to the action of a
sovereign State, to be characterized by a more scrupulous regard
to justice, and a higher morality, than belong to the ordinary
transactions of individuals. The obligation of the State of Arkansas to receive the notes of the bank, in payment of its debts,
is much stronger than in the above case of individual guaranty.
The bank belonged to the State, and it realized the profits
of its operations. It w~s conducted by the agents of the State,
under the supervision of the legislature. By the guaranty, the
notes of the bank, for the payment of debts to the State, were
equal to gold and silver. This, to, some extent, sustained their
credit, and gave them currency. Loans were made by the
bank on satisfactory security. The debts of the bank, or a
large proportion of them, may fairly be presumed to.have been
collected. But the means of the bank, thus under the control
of the State, became exhausted. Whether this was the result
of withdrawing the capital from the bank, by the State, does
not appear upon the record. We only kmow the fact that its
funds have disappeared, leaving, it is said, a large amount of
its paper, issued before the repeal of the guaranty, worthless, in
the hands of the citizens of the State,
The obligation of the State to receive these notes is denied,
on the grdund that the twenty-eighth section was a general
provision, liable to be repealed, at any time, by the legislature.
And it is compared to a general provision to receive, for public
dues, the paper of banks generally, unconnected with the State.
There is no analogy in the two cases. One is a question of
public policy, influenced by considerations of general convenience, which every one knows may be changed at the discretion
of the legislature. But the other arises out of a contract incorporated into the charter, imposing an obligation on the
State to receive, in payment of all debts due to it, the paper of
a bank owned by the State, and whose notes are circulated for
its benefit. The power of the legislature to repeal the section,
the stock of the bank being owned by the State, is not controverted; but that act cannot affect the notes in circulation at
the time of the repeal.
It is objected, that this view trenches upon the sovereignty
of the State, in the exercise of its taxing powet and in the reg-

208

SUPREME

COURT.

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

ulation of its currency. We are not aware that a State has
power over the currency farther than the right to establish banks,
to regulate or prohibit the circulation, within the State, of foreign
notes, and to deterrhine in what the public dues shall be paid.
It is a principle controverted bypo one, that, on general questions of policy, one legislature cannot bind those which shall
succeed it; but it is equally true and undoubted, that a legislature may make a contract which shall bind those that shall
come after it.
-The notes of the bank in circulation at the repeal of the
twenty-eighth section, if made receivable by the State in'discharge of public dues, may so far resuscitate them, as that, in
the course of time, they will find their way into the treasury of
the State, where in justice and by contract they belong. It is
presumed there will be no complaint, as there will be no
ground for any, by the citizens of the State, if these notes, now
dead and worthless, should be so far revived as to reach their
appropriate destination. And if, as a consequence, some increase of taxation should be required by the State, it will be
nothing more than is common to all other States that perform
their contracts. It would be a niost unwise policy for a State
to improve'its currency through a violation of its contracts.
In such a course, the loss of the State would be incomparably
greater thafa its gain. Any argument in commendation of
such an action by a State cannot be otherwise considered
than as exceedingly infelicitous, and unjust.
If these notes be receivable in payment of public dues by
the State, having been in circulation at the time of the repeal
of the above section, as we think they clearly are, no doubt can
exist as to the sufficiency of the tender. The law of tender
which avoids future interest and costs, has no application in
this case. The right to make payment to the State in this
paper arises out of a continuing contract, which is limited in
time by the circulation of the notes to be received. They may
be offered in payment of debts due to the State, in its own
right, before or after judgment, and without regard to the cause
of indebtment.
Whatever may be the demerits of the plaintiff in error, they
do not affect the nature and extent of the obligation of the
State. And that obligation cannot be withdrawn from this
paper. Into whosesoever hands it shall come, it carries with it
the pledge of thi State to receive it in payment of its debts.
In this case the pyment is made by the securities of Woodruff, and exacted by the State, to whose organization and management of the bank may be attributed its insolvency. In
procuring the notes of the bank, these securities had a right to

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

209

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

rely, and no doubt did rely, upon the guaranty of the State to
receive them in payment of debts.
In sustaining the application for a mandamus, the Supreme
Court of the State exercised jurisdiction in the case. To that
court exclusively belongs the question of its own jurisdiction.
For the reasons stated, the judgment, of the Supreme Court is
reversed, and the cause is remanded for further proceedings to
that court, as it may have jurisdiction, in conformity to the
opinion of this court.
Ar. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice DANIEL, Mr. Justice
NELSON, and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
Mr.,Justice GRIER.
With all respect for*my brethren, I feel constrained to express my entire dissent from the opinion of the majority of the
court, which has just been delivered.
There is no portion of the power and jurisdiction committed to .this court which demands so much caution in its exercise, as that of declaring the legislation of a State to be null and
void, because it comes in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States. And more especially should this be the case
where one of the States of this Union is really (though not
nominally) the true party defendant, and is charged, not merely
'with legislation ipjuriously impairing contracts between her citizens, but with a direct and dishonest repudiation of her own
solemn obligations. Such is the charge on which the State and
people of Arkansas have. been publicly arraigned before this
court.. But it is one I am unwilling to indorse or believe, without other evidence than the record before us contains. When a
State is charged with a repudiation of her contracts, the party
making it is bound to show, beyond dispute, that the State has
made a contract; when, where, how, and with whom; and not
leave it to surmise, strained inferences, or fanciful construction,
as to the lature of the obligation, or the parties to it.
Assuming the State of Arkansas to be, for the purposes of
this case, a private corporation, or an individual, and bound by
{he same principles of law, and equity which affect other persons
in their intercourse with the world, let us examine whether William E. Woodruff, the plaintiff below and in error, has shown a
contract which entitled him to the remedy sought, in the Supreme Court of Arkansas, and which we are now called on to
afford him. The. record shoeds that his bond was given to the
State of Arkansas on the 27th of October, 1836, before the
act was passed Cvhich incorporated the Bank of the State of
Arkansas. His contract, as it appears on the face of his bond, is
18 *

210

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. Trapnall.

to pay $ 300,000, " lawful money of the United States," subject
to a condition which is forfeited. He was treasurer of the State,
and between the date of his bond and the 21st of December,
1838, he received large sums of money, and among others, the
sum of $ 286,757.49, in drafts from the Secretary of the Treasury
of the United States. Of these moneys a balance remained in
his hands, which he refused to pay over, and a suit was brought
on his bond in 1840; and on the 23d of January, 1847, final judgment was recovered for the sum of $ 3,359 and costs; and an
execution having issued for the same, Woodruff, for the first time,
in February, 1847, tendered to the attorney of the State, not
lawful money of the Unlted States, which he had contracted to
pay, and for which judgment was given against him, but notes
of the State Bank of Arkansas, then and now insolvent, and the
notes almost worthless. Woodruff then petitioned the Supreme
Court for a mandamus to compel the attorney of the State to
receive these worthless notes, in place of the money he had contracted to pay, and which he was condemned by the judgment
of the court to pay; and because of the refusal of the Supreme
Court of Arkansas to issue a peremptory mandamus, he has appealed to this court to compel them, on the ground that the law
of the State which forbade its officers to receive payment of
taxes and debts in any thing but specie or par funds, impaired the
obligation of contracts. The twenty-eighth section of the act
of 1836, incorporating the bank, directed that the bills and notes
of the bank should" be received in all payments of debts due to
the State of A-kansas." But another statute, passed in 1845,
enacted, that "from and after the 4th"of March, 1845, nothing
shall be received in payment of taxes or revenue due the State,
but par funds or Treasury warrants of the State/'
Now, for seven years and upwards after the default of the
plaintiff in paying over money which he had received, he was
permitted to pay in notes of this bank, but in all this time he
made no tender of payment in such notes. When sued on his
bond, he makes no tender of notes, pleads no set-off, but, after
judgment of the court that he shall pay money, he claims a right
to satisfy the execution by handing over that which is not
money. If this claim be not just, it has at least the merit of
novelt, as it is certainly without precedent, either in the courts
of England or America.
Let us assume, for argument's sake, that every enactment of
the legislature of Arkansas is in the nature of a contract or
promise with some person, and cannot be repealed, and that the
State had guarantied or indorsed every note issued by the
bank, or, what, will make the case stronger for the plaintiff,
that his bond was made payable in the notes of the State Bank

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

211

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

of Arkansas. Is he entitled to the extraordinary process now
demanded, or had he a right to allege such contract on the part
of the State at this stage of the proceedings? If he had not, and
the court below were right in refusing to issue the mandamus,
whether the act of 1845 was void or valid, he has no right to call
upon this court to reverse their judgment, because they may have
given a wrong reason for it, and unnecessarily passed their
opinion on the validity of an act which did not affect the plaintiff's case, or leprive him of any right.
If a creditor gives public notice to his debtors that he will accept, in payment of his debts, wheat, tobacco, or Arkansas notes,
and his debtor for a course of seven years refuses or neglects to
accept of the offer, and tender payment in such articles, and is
afterwards sued upon his bond or note; and even after suit
brought makes no such tender, or pleads his readiness to pay in
such articles, and judgment is obtained against him on his bond
for money due; can he afterwards ask a court to allow him to
tender payment in any thing else than money, or have a rule on
the plaintiff's attorney or a mandamus, to compel him to accept notes of a broken bank, or other specific articles, in payment of an execution issued on the judgment? Again, if the
obligation sued upon is payable in specific articles, and no tender of them is made before suit brought, or plea that the defendant is ready and willing to pay according to contract, and the
court give judgment against the debtor for a certain sum of
money, as damages for hi- breach of his contract, can he afterwards compel the sheriff or the plaintiff's attorney to accept
specific articles in satisfaction of a judgment and execution for
money? And again, if a defendant hold notes drawn or indorsed or guarantied by the plaintiff, he may plead them as a
set-off, and obtain judgment in his favor. But if he enter no
such plea, or demand no such set-off, and judgment is entered
against him for the money due, can he purchase the plaintiff's
notes after judgment, and ask the court to compel the plaintiff's
attorney to accept them in payment? It does not appear, nor
have the learned counsel asserted, that such is the peculiar law
of Arkansas, and it certainly is not the law anywhere else.
When suit is brought on a contract, it becomes merged in the
judgment; if the defendant claims a right to pay it in afiy thing
else than money, he must plead it and set it up on the trial; for
the court, on an action for money, can give judgment only for
the payment of money. If, after trial, verdict, and judgment,
the plaintiff on motion could raise a new question as to set-off,
tender, or a right to satisfy his debt in some other way than by
payment of money, the judgment of a court, instead of being
the end of controversy, would be but the beginning of litigation.

212

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. Trapnall.

Of this, the present case is a most flagrant instance. The plaintiffs in error were sued oil their bond in 1840, on an obligation to
pay "lawful money of the United States." They contested the
claim in court for seven years, never alleged by plea or otherwise
any contract on the part of the State by which they were entitled to pay in any thing but money, never tendered notes of the
Bank of Arkansas, never alleged that the State was liable as
guarantor of the notes of the bank, tnd bound to accept them
as a set-off or in payment, but after final judgment affirmed
in a court of error, and execution issued, they commence a
new litigation, which has now lasted for four years more.
If a citizen of Arkansas had sued the defendants on their
bond, and thus had claimed the right to tender payment of it
in any thing else than money, owing to some promise or contract of the plaintiff to accept the paper of a particular bank
in payment of his bond, no lawyer can pretend that the defendants were not bound to make their defence on the trial,
or that, after judgment to pay money, any court has the power
to compel the plaintiff to accept any thing else. That a sovereign State has not the same rights in a court of justice that are
granted.to her humblest citizens, is a doctrine that I have not
heard advanced, and do not feel bound to disprove. And yet,
if the Supreme Court of Arkansas bad issued the peremptory
mandamus asked by plaintiff, they would have assumed a
power over the sovereign State which the law would not allow
them to exercise over any of her citizens. The Constitution
of the United States forbids any State "to make any thing but
gold and silver a tender in payment of debts"; yet it is claimed
that this court has the power to compel a State to accept payment of a judgment for $ 3,000 lawful money of the United
States, in worthless paper of a broken bank; or, in other
words, in a collateral proceeding to set a5ide and reverse thq
judgment of the court condemning the defendants to pay money,
and let them into a defence on some alleged contract of the
defendant to guaranty the notes of 'acertain bank, or, to accept payment in something else than money; and thus try the
defence after judgment. If courts of justice have such a power, it would seem that this is the first inptance in which they
have been called upon to exercise it, as ,the books of reports
can furnish no precedent of such a proceeding.
Thus far I have considered this case on the assumption,
that the State of Arkansas, by her direction to her officers to
receive- payment of debts due to her in the notes of the bank,
have become the guarantors and indorsers of such notes, and
have thereby divested themselves of all power to lay and collect taxes payable in any other medium or currency than notes

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

213

Woodruff v. TrapnalL

of the bank, and irrevocably made them a sufficient tender to
her for all dejbts due, and shown, as I think, that the court below were justifiable in refusing to the plaintiff the writ prayed
for in his petition. Let us now inquire whether there is any
such contract between the parties in this case, which has been
impaired by the legislation of the State. For it is well settled,
that the plaintiffs have no right to invoke the aid of this court,
to exercise the high power intrusted to them, of deciding on
the validity of State legislation, unless some rights vested in
them by contract with the State, or some other person, have
been impaired or destroyed thereby. I admit that if the defendant, as treasurer of the State, had received debts or taxes
due the State in the notes. 6f the bank before the repeal
of this law directing him to receive them, it would be a
gross violation of their contract to refuse to receive from him
such currency or specific articles as he had received in pursuance of law. But that is not the case before us. On the contrary, the bond given by the plaintiff was antec'edent to the incorporation of the bank; their contract with the State was to
pay "lawful money of the United States," and the subsequent
act cannot be said to be incorporated in it, or make a part of
their contract. The treasurer received for the use of the State
money, not notes of the bank, as the record shows. They do
not pretend that after the passage of the act, or even after its
repeal up to the time that judgment was obtained against
them, they ever held a dollar of these bank-notes, or ever
tendered a payment of their debt in them. Where, then, is
the contract -with these plaintiffs, or how has it been impaired?
If other persons have received these notes on the faith of their
guaranty by the State, and their value has been diminished or
destroyed by the refusal of the State to receive them in payment of their dues, what right' have the plaintiffs to complain,
or to come to this court for aid? 'Who is attempting to commit a fraud, or deny the obligatioa of their contracts, the State
of Arkansas, or the plaintifT themselves? For seven years
after this balance was due from the treasurer (from 1838 till
1845), he was permitted to pay it in notes of the bank; but he
refused to aceept the offer. The bank becomes insolvent, the
.offer to receive payment in its worthless paper is withdrawn.
And iTo years afterwards, and after the plaintiffs are condemned-to.pay their debt according to their covenant, in lawful
money of 'the United States, after an execution has issued to
compel a compliance with the judgment of the court, they ask
this court to annul their contract and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of .Arkansis, that they may pay their debt in
depreciated paper bought up for the purpose. It seems to me,

214

SUPREME

COURT.

Woodruff v. TrapnalL

that if the charge of fraudulent disregard of their contract
be imputable to either of the parties in the argument, so far
as it affects the contract between fhem, it is not the State
which is justly liable to it, but the plaintiffs. The repeal of the
twenty-eighth section of the act incorporating the bank, if it
impaired the obligation of a contract with any person, certainly
did not add to or change the obligation given by the plaintiffs,
or impair it any respect. If it was a contract at all, it was
:with the corporation. So far as it affected the plaintiffs, it was
a gratuitous offer and direction or permission to the treasurer to
receive, accept, and pay over debts due the State in a specific
article not money, nor a legal tender as such. There is no
complaint that the State ever refused to receive from the treasurer taxes or debts received by him in this currency, under
this permission or direction of the act. For the seven years
that he was permitted to pay his own debt in that medium,
he refused to accept of the offer. If a wealthy creditor, for the
purpose of sustaining the credit of a particular bank, publishes
to the world that, if his debtors will pay him in notes of that
bank, he will accept them, and after the bank fails gives notice
that he will no longer receive them, can a debtor who for
seven years has refused to accept this offer, and pay his debts
in the manner proposed, allege that this is a contract binding
on the creditor for ever? Can he allege that this .offer to receive payment in a specific article, unaccepted by him, has
changed the nature of his bond, and that a demand of payment according to the letter of his obligation impairs any contract between them? Such a doctrine as regards the contracts
of individuals has never been advanced in a court of justice.
And why a different rule should be applied to contracts when
a sovereign State is one of the parties, has certainly not been
explained.
It needs no argument to demonstrate that a contract must
have at least two parties, and that all laws made by a sovereign State are not necessarily contracts, and therefore irrevocable. The act of the legislature of Arkansas under consideration
is entitled, "An Act to incorporate the Bank of the State of
Arkansas." It creates a corporation and confers certain powers and privileges upon it. So far as it does this, as has been
decided by this court, the act may be considered in the nature
of a contract, and that these powers and privileges cann.ot be
annulled or withdrawn, without the consent of the artificial
power thus created, or the individuals for whose benefit the
franchise was granted. It is true, also, that when a law is in
the nature of a contract or grant, and absolute rights have,
vested under that contract, a repeal of the law cannot divest'

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

215

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

those rights. But the plaintiffs in this case are not corporators,
or stockholders in the bank; they hold no franchise, powers, or
privileges, under the act of incorporation; they are no parties
to the contracts, nor have they any vested rights under it, which
have been impaired by the repeal of the twenty-eigbth section.
If the corporation, or those who claim the franchises and
powers granted to it, do not complain of an infringement of
their contract, no other person can. As to them, it is a mere
speculative question, which this court is not bound to decide.
So far as it affected the plaintiffs, the twenty-eighth section
was but a gratuitous offer to accept notes in place of gold and
silver, if they would pay their debt, a mere license at tb p g4easure of the State if not accepted by them. To call it srant,
or vested right under a contract, seems to me a perversroa and
abuse of terms. But admitting that the directions given in
this act to her public officers to deposit the funds of the State
in this bank, and receive its paper in payment of its debts, cons'tituted a part of the contract with the corporatioii, and could
not be repealed, did it bind the State after the corporation
ceased to perform the functions and duties imposed upon-it?
If a State creates a banking corporation with a certain capital,
and requires it to pay its notes in specie on demand, and agrees
to make it a depositary, and use and receive its notes as cash,
is the State bound by its contract to do so, when the corporation fails or refuses to fulfil the duties and purposes of its creation. If such be the case, it is certainly a one-sided contract;
there is no mutuality in it. Does it make any difference in
the case, also, whether the stock of the corporati6n is furnished
by the State or individuals? In neither case are the stockholders individually liable for the mismanagement or defaults
of the corporation, unless previously.'made so by the act of incorporation. The State of Arkansas furnished one million ,of
dollars as the stock upon which this banking corporation was
to issue notes and discount paper. She has nowhere agreed
to guaranty the solvency of the bank, or be liable for its issues.
If individuals had furnished the stock, they would not be personally liable for its debts. If the stockholders had all made
deposits of their money in the bank, and received interest on
long deposits, and received its notes as gold and silver, it
would not have amounted to a contract with the public, or
note-holders, or any body else, that they should continue to
deposit their money or receive its notes in payment of debts
after the bank became insolvent and its notes worthless. The
most refined legal ast'tia has thus far been unable to discover
in such conduct of individuals an implied promise to receive
broken bank notes in payment of debts, or a liability to the

216

SUPREME COURT.
Woodruff v. Trapnall.

note-holders, because their conduct had given credit to the bank.
But it seems there is a more stringent rule of morality with regard to sovereign Sta es and their contracts. In their case,
under some fiction of the law, without regard to the fact or
their actual undertaking, there has been discovered an implied
contract running with the paper, like a covenant running with
land, which renders them liable for all the issues of the bank,.
into whosesoever hands it may come, and for ever disables them
to lay or collect a tax, or pay a debt, till they have lifted and
paid every note of the broken bank in which they were stockholders, although- they never directly pledged the faith of the
State, or agreed to be liable for a single dollar issued by the
bank. If individuals had furnished the one million of dollars
capital under an act of incorporation which did not make the
stockholders personally liable, every person who received the
notes would do it on the credit of the capital paid in. Why it
should not be the same case when a State furnished the capital,
I am unable to perceive. Nor can I comprehend how a direction by a State to its officers to make deposits in a bank, and
receive its notes in payment of debts, amounts per se to a
contract running with the notes, which binds the State to receive them for ever, whether the corporation be solvent or insolvent, dead or alive. But the liability of the State for these
issues is argued and attempted to be proved by another legal
fiction; to wit, that the State is the bank, and the bank is the
Stdte. And why? Because she created the corporation? No;
for that would make-her liable for the paper of every corporation created by the legislature.
It is, then, because she is owner of the stock, receives the
profits, makes the bank her depositary, and gives credit to its
notes by ordering them to be received in payment of her debts.
And it .is from this doctrine of identity, that this contract of
guaranty, running with the paper, has been inferred, or rather
imputed to the State. If the same identity exists when individuals stand in the same relation to a corporation, and the same
contract of guaranty be imputed to them (and I can see no
reason why it should not), it is strange that no traces of the
doctrine cad1 be found in our books of reports.
But there are certain inferences which necessarily follow as
corollaries from this decision in this case, and certain doctrines
for which it may be quoted as a precedent (although not directly
asserted), that confirm me in refusing my assent to it.
1st. That if the same rules of law for the interpretation of contracts, and the rights of the parties to them, affect all persons,
whether natural or artificial, the individual and the sovereign
State, it may fairly be inferred hereafter, that, when a bond or

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

217

Woodruff v. Trapnall.

note, payable in specific articles, is sued upon, the defendant is
not bound either to tender them, or plead a tender, but, after
judgment for a sum of money, he may make payment to
the sheriff of the execution in specific arti.cles, and not in
money.
2d. That, after a court has solemnly adjudged that the defendant shall pay to the plaintiff a certain sum of money, they
can compel him to receive in lieu of it worthless rags.
3d. That a defendant, who has been condemned by the judgment of a court to pay to the plaintiff a sum of money, may
buy up notes drawn or indorsed by the plaintiff, and by mandamus or rule of court compel the plaintiff's attorney to accept
them in payment.
4th. If these consequences are not legitimately to be inferred
from this judgment, then it necessarily follows, that this court
exercise a controlling power over sovereign States, and judgments obtained'by them, which they cannot exercise over the
humblest individual or petty corporation.
5th. That this court has the power to compel any State
of this Union, who repudiates her debts, to pay them, because
such refusal or repudiation impairs the obligation of her contracts.
6th. That so long as any portion of the three millions of dollars of notes issued by this bank before 1845 remains unpaid,
the State of Arkansas cannot collect a dollar of taxes from her
citizens in lawful money.
7th. That the courts have a right to compel a State to pay
bank notes guarantied by them, before and in preference of all
other debts.
8th. That the collectors of taxes, so long as any of this issue
of bank-notes can be found, may buy.them up at the rate of one
dollar for ten or a hundred, and have the assistance of the court
to compel the State to receive them at par, even where the collector has received gold and silver.
9th. That when a State, a corporation, or an individual publish to the world their willingness to accept payment of their
debts in the issues of a bank, it amounts to a contract, by implicatio'n, with the public, and each individual composing it, to
guaranty the notes issued by said bank, and that this contract
runs -with, and is attached to, said notes, in the hands of the
bearer, provided the notes were issued before such offer is with-'
drawn.
As I cannot assent to any one of these propositions, and as I
believe they are legitimate deductions from the decision of the
court, I beg leave to express my dissent from it.
VOL. X.

19

218

SUPREME COURT.
Paup et a.

v. Drew.

Mr. Justice CATRON.
I concur in the dissenting opinion just delivered 'by my
brother Grier.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
I dissent from the decision of the court in this case, and
entirely concur in the arguments and conclusions expressed in
the opinion delivered by my brother Grier.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the-transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the sail Supreme Court for further pro.
ceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

JOHN W. PAUl', JAMES TRIGG, AN D RICHARD PRYoR, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, v. THOMAS S. DREW, AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF A"
KANSAS, AND SUcCCESSOR OF ARCHIBALD YELL, DECEASED.
The decision of the court in the preceding case of Woodruf'v. Trapnall again affirmed.
But although the pledge of the State to receive the notes of the bank in payment of
all debts due to it in its own right was a contract -which it could not violate, yet
where the State sold lands which were held by it in trust for the benefit of a semiary, and the terms of sale were, that the debtor should pay in specie or its equivalent, such debtor was not at liberty to tender the notes of the bank in payment.
And this was true, although the money to be received from the debtor was intended
by the legislature to be put into the bank, and to constitute a part of its capital.
The fund belonged to the State only as a trustee, and therefore was not, within
the meaning of the charter, a debt due to the State.
By the terms of sale, also, to pay "in specie or its equivalent," the notes of the bank
were excluded.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas.
The same question was involved which was raised in the

preceding case of Woodruff v. Trapnall; namely, whether the
State of Arkansas could refuse to receive the notes of the Bank
of the State of Arkansas under the circumstances therein stated;
and also the additional question, whether she could refuse to
receive the notes in her character of trustee under the following
circumstances.

