DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

99

Wilson v. Sandford -et al.

places could be regulated, where the navigation and carryingplaces began and ended in a single State.
For thirty years, the State courts within the territory ceded
by Virginia have held this part of the fourth article to be in
force, and binding on them respectively; and I feel unwilling
to disturb thi wholesome course of decision, which is so conservative to the. rights of others, in a case where the fourth article is in no wise involved, and when our opinion might be
disregarded by the State courts as obiter, and a dictum uncalled
for. When the question arises here on the fourth article, it is
desired by me, that no such embarrassment should be imposed
on this court as necessarily must be by now passing judgment
on the force of the fourth article; and pronouncing that it stand
superseded and annulled.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Court of Appeals for the State of Kentucky, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

SATas G. WnLsox,

APPELLANT, V. GEORGE A. SANDFORD AND ROBERT

G.

MUISGROVE.

The seventeenth section of the act of 1836 gives the right of appeal to this court,
when the sum in dispute is below the value of two thousand dollars, "in all actions,
suits, controversies on cases arising under any law of the United States, granting

or confirming to inventors the exclusive right to their inventions or discoveries,"
provided the court below shall deem it reasonable to allow the appeal.
But a bill filed on the equity side of the Circuit Court to set-aside an assignment
upon the ground that the assignee had not complied with the terms of the contrac
is not one of these enumerated cases; and the value in dispute being less than two

thousand dollars, this court has no jurisdiction over the case.

Tmis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana.
The appellant" bad filed his bill in the court below, setting
forth a patent to William Woodworth, dated December 27th,
1828, for a planing machine; also an extension, in.1842, of
said patent for seven years, granted to William W. Woodworth,
administrator of the patentee; an assignment of all right and
interest in said extended patent throughout the United States
(except Vermont) to complainant, Wilson; and a license from
Wilson to the defendants to use one machine upon payment

100

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Sandford et al.

of $1,400, as follows, viz. $ 250 in cash, and t'e remainder
in nine, twelve, eighteen, and twenty-four months, for which
promissory notes were given, dated 23d April, 1845, one for
$ 150, and four for $ 250 each.
The license was made an exhibit in the case, which, after
setting forth the consideration of $ 1,400 above mentioned,
and the promissory notes for part thereof, contained the followlowing provision: - " And if said notes, or either of them, be
not punctually paid upon the maturity thereof, then all and
singular the rights hereby granted are to revert to the said -Vilson, who shall be reinvested in the same manner as if this
license had not been made."
The first two of said notes were not paid when they fell due,
payment having been demanded and refused before the filing
of the bill. The bill further insisted, that the license was forfeited by the failure to pay the notes, and that the licensor was
fully reinvested at law, and in equity, with all his original
rights. That the defendants, nevertheless, were using the machine, and thus were infringing the patent. Prayer for an
injunction, pendente lite, f6r an account of profits since the forfeiture of the license, for a perpetual injunction, for a reinvestiture of title in complainant, and for other and further relief.
The defendants demurred to the whole bill, and also (saving
their demurrer) answered the whole bill. They admitted all
the facts alleged; and averred, on their part, that the c6ntract
set forth in the bill had been modified and varied by a new
contract, which the complainant had broken, and that the respondent, being in the lawful use of a planing-machine at the
expiration of the patent, had the right to use such machine
without license, ajad consequently that the xhotes were without
consideration.
There was a general' replication, and the cause was heard
first on bill and demurrer, and afterwards (the demurrer having
been ,overruled) on bill, answer, and replication. Whereupon
'the bill was dismissed, with costs, and an appeal to this court
taken.
The cause was argued by Mr. Seward, for the appellant, no
counsel appearing for the appellees. As, however, the appeal
was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the argument of Mr.
Seward, which was wholly upon the merits, is not inserted.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill in this case was filed by the appellant against the
appellees in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

101

Wilson v. Sandford et aL

The object of the bill was to set aside a contract made by
the appellant with the appellees, by -which he had granted
them permission to use, or vend to others to be used, one, of
Woodworth's planing-machines, in the cities of New Orleans
and Lafayette; and also to obtain an injunction against the
further use of the iachine, upon the ground that it was an infringement of his patent rights. The appellant states that he
was the assignee of the monopoly in that district of country,
and that the contract which he had made with the appelleea
had been forfeited by their refusal to comply with its conditions.
The license in question was sold for fourteen hundred 'dollars,
a part of which, the bill admits, had been paid. The contract
is exhibited with the bill, but it is not necessary-n this opinion
to set out more particularly its provisions.
The appellees denurred to the bill, and at the final hearing
the demurrer was sustained, and the bill dismissed. And the
case is brought here by an appeal from that decree.
The matter in cbntroversy between the parties arises upon
this contract, and it does not appear that the sum in dispute
exceeds two thousand dollars. On the contrary, the bill and
contract exhibited With it show that it is below that sum. An
appeal, therefore, cannot be taken from the decree of the Circuit Court, unless it is authorized by the last clause in the seventeenth section of the act of 1826.
The section referred to, after giving the right to a writ of error or appeal in cases arising under that law, in the same manner and under the same circumstances as provided by law in
other cases, adds the following provision -"And in all other
cases in which the court shall deem it reasonable to allow the
sarrie." The words "in all other cases" evidently refer to the
description of cases provided for in that section, and where the,
matter in dispute is below two thousand dollars. In such suits,
no appeal could be allowed but for this provision.
The cases specified in the section in question are, "1all actions, suits, controversies on cases arising under any law bf the
United States, granting or confirming to inventors the exclusive
right to their inventions or discoveries." The right of appeal
to this court is confined to cases of this description, when the
sum indispute is below two thbusald dollars. And the pecu.
liar privilege given to this, class of cases was intended fo secure uniformiy of decision in the construction' of the act of
Congress in relation to patents.
Now the dispute in this case does not arise under any act
of Congress; nor does the decision depend upon the construction of any law in .relation to patents. It arises out of the
contract stated in the bill; and there is no act of Congress pro9*

102

SUPREME COURT.
Downs v. Kissam.

viding for or regulating contracts of this kind. The rights of
the parties depend altogether upon common law and equity
principles. The object of the bill is to have this contract set
aside and declared to be forfeited; and the prayer is, ' that the
appellant's reinvestiture of title, to the license granted to the
appellees, by reason of the forfeiture of the contract, may be
sanctioned by the court," and for an injunction. But the injunction he asks for is to be the consequence of the decree of
the court sanctioning the forfeiture. He alleges no ground for
an injunction unless the contract is set 4ide. And if the case
made in the bill was a fit one for relief in equity, it is very
clear that whether the contract ought to be declared forfeited or
not, in a court of chancery, depended altogether upon the rules
and principles of equity, and in no degree whatever upon any
act of Congress concerning patent rights. And whenever a
contract is made in relation to them, which is not provided for
and regulated by Congress, the parties, if any, dispute a4ses,
stand upon the same ground with other litigants as to the right
of appeal; and the decree of the Circuit Court cannot be revised here, unless the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand
dollars.
This appeal therefore, must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be. heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Louisiana, and vas argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed for
the Vant of jurisdiction.

ALFRED

C. DowNs,

PLAINTIFF iN ERROR, v. JosEP r KissA.

Where the Circuit Court instructed the jury, "that, if any one of the mortgages given in evidence conveyed more property than would be sufficient to secure the debt
provided for in the mortgage, it was a circumstance from which the jury might
presume fraud," this instruction was erroneous.
Any creditor may pay the mortgage debt and proceed against the property; or he
may subject it to the payment of his debt by other modes of proceeding.

Ii error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
A writ of fieri facias issued on the 5th of January, 1842,

