DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

419

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

Mr. Justice McLEAN.
In this case, I think we have no jurisdiction. There was
no contract which could be impaired, within the provision of
the Constitution of the United States. This is clearly shown
in the opinion of the court. In such a case, I suppose the
proper entry would be, to dismiss the. writ of error. By the
affirmance of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, we take jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court an this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

THE WASHINGTON, ALEXANDRIA, AND GEORGETOWN STEAI PACKET
COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. FREDERICK E. SICKLES AND

TEUMAN CooR.
Where the declaration contained two counts; viz. the first upon a special contract that the plaintiffs had placed a machine for saving fuel on board of the
steamboat of the defendants, and were entitled to a certain portion of the savings;
the second upon a quantura rnermit; it was admissible to give in evidence by the
plaintiffs the experiments of practical engineers to show the value of the machine.
Evidence had previously been given, tending to prove the value in the mode
pointed out in the contract, and the evidence in question tended not to contradic
but to corroborate it Tt was therefore admissible under the first count, and clearly
so under the second.
On the Iart of the defendants, the evidence of the president of the steamboat company -'.. then given, denying the special contract alleged by the plaintiffs, and
affirming a totally different one, namely, that, if the owners of the boat could not
agree with the plaintiffs to purchase it, the latter were to take it away. The court
should have instructed the jury, that, if they believed this evidence, they should find
for the defendants.
The court below instructed the jury, that, if the president of the company, acting as
its general agent, made the special contract with the plaintiffs, the company were
bound by it, whether he communicated it to the company or not. This instruction was right. But the court erred in saying that the plaintiffs had a right to recover on their special count, if the machine was useful to the defendants, without
regarding the stipulatioan of that contract as laid and proved, and the determination of the plaintiffs to ,,dhere to it. Because, by the contract, the defendants are
to use the machine during the continuance of the patent right; and as no time is
pointed out for a settlement, a right of action did not accrue until the whole service had been performed.
Whether, if there had been a count in the declaration for the cost of the machine,
and the jury had believed that the defendants had agreed to pay it as soon as it
was earned, the plaintiffs might not recover ) that amount, or whether such a
construction could be put on the contract as proved, are questions not before the
court on this record, and upon which no opinion is expressed.

420

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the County of Washington.
It came up upon a bill of exceptions to the admission of certain evidence, and four bills of exceptions to refusals of the
court below to grant certain prayers, all of which exceptions
were taken by the defendants below (the plaintiffs in error
here). But as two of the last-named bills of exceptions were
not pressed in this court, it is not necessary to state them, or to
state more of the case than is sufficient to show the points argued and decided by this court.
In March, 1846, Sickles and Cook brought arl action against
the Steam Packet Company. The cause of action is thus
stated in the declaration: "Whereupon the said plaintiffs, by Joseph H. Bradley, their
attorney, complain, for that whereas heretofore, to wit, on the
first day of July, 1844, the said defendants, at the county aforesaid, being the owners of a certain steamboat called the Columbia, and running in the Potomac River and Chesapeake Bay,
in consideration that the said plaintiffs, being the proprietors of
a certain machine called ' Sickles's cut-off,' designed to effect a
saving in the consumption of fuel for steam-engines, would
place one of the said machines on the said steamboat Columbia, undertook and promised the said plaintiffs to apply the
whole value of the saving of the fuel on board the said boat,
which sliould be effected by the said machine, in the first place,
to pay the cost and expenses of building the said machine, and
putting the same on the said boat; and thereafter, and after
having paid the said costs and expenses, that they, the said
defendants, would, so long as the said steamboat should continue to be employed by the said'defendants, if the patent-right
for the said machine should continue so long, pay to the said
plaintiffs three fourths of the saving in fuel caused by said
machine. And that the saving caused by the said machine,
called the cut-off, on board the said boat, should be ascertained
at any time the said plaintiffs should desire it, in the following
manner, to wit: by taking equal'quantities of wood, and using
the same first with one and then with the 'other cut-off, (the
defendants then having in use on board their said boat a machine called the throttle,) to show with which the boat would
run the longest under the same circumstances. And thereupon
the said plaintiffs, confiding in the said promises and undertaki.ns of the said defendants, at great cost, to wit, at the cost
of two hundred and fifty dollars, did erect and build, and place
ol the said steamboat Columbia, at the request of the defend-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

421

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

ants, a machine called ' Sickles's cut-off' ; which said machine,
and the same hath ever since, to wit, from the 20th day of August, 1844, continually, to the beginning of this action, been
used by the said defendants in and upon the said boat; and
that, on the 19th day of August, 1845, at the county aforesaid,
the said plaintiffs gave notice to the said defendants that they
would, on the next day, that is to say, on the 20th day of August, 1845W, if they desired, make the said experiment in the
said agreement mentioned, to test the relative value of the said
machine; and, for that purpose, that one of the said plaintiffs
would go from Washington to Baltimore, in the said boat, on
the said 20th of August, 1845, and make the said experiment;
and the said defendants, by their president, did then and there
assent thereto, and did direct the officers of the said boat, 6r
some of them, to aid in conducting the said experiment; and
the said plaintiffs in fact further say, that one of the said
plaintiffs, to wit, the said Truman Cook, did, on the said 20th
day of Aughst, 1845, proceed in the said boat from the said
city of Washington to Baltimore, in the State of Maryland,
and did, on the said voyage, with the assistance of the officers
of the said boat, make the said experiment, and did take two
piles of wood of equal dimensions and under like circumstances; the pile employed in the use of the throttle cut-off was
burned in two hours and seven minutes; and the pile used by
the cut-pff of the plaintiffs lasted three hours and fifteen mimutes, showing a saving in favor of the latter of 34 and If. percent., of all which the said defendants had due notice; whereby
a great amount and value of fuel has been saved by the said
defendants, to wit, the amount of twenty-five hundred dollars;
and the said plaintiffs in fact say, they were and are entitled
to recover of and from the said defendants, out of the said sum
of money, as well the said sum of two hundred and fifty dol-.
lars, as and for the costs and expenses of erecting and building,
the said machine and placing the same on the said steamboat,.
as also the further sum of sixteen hundred and eighty dollars
and fifty cents, being three fourths of !he said savings within.
said period of time after the said machine was put in operation,
on the said boat, and while the same was used by the said defendants to the time of the bringing this suit; and being so entitled, the said plaintiffs, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid,.
and often afterwards, at the county aforesaid, demanded the
whole of the said two sums of money, to wit, the sum of nineteen hundred and thirty-seven dollars and fifty cents, of and
from the said defendants, -and the said defendants utterly neg-lected and refused to pay the same, or any part thereof, to theVOL. X.

36

422

SUPREME

COURT.

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et aL.

said plaintiffs, and still refuse, to the damage of the plaintiffs
four thousand dollars; and therefore they sue.
JOSEPH -1. BRADLEY, fot Plaintiffs.
"Add a count for putting the machine on the boat at the request of the defendants, with a quantum meruit."
JOSEPH H. BMRDLEY,for Plaintiffs."
The defendants pleaded non assumpsit, upon which issue
was joined, and in March, 1847, the cause came on for trial.
The following is the evidence offered by the plaintiffs, which,
being objected to by the defendants but admitted by the court,
formed the subject of the exception to evidence.
" On the trial of this cause, the plaintiffs, to maintain the issue
on their part joined, offered and gave evidence tending to show
that, on or about the 18th day of June, 1844, at the county
aforesaid, the said plaintiffs being the owners of the patent
right to a ce'rtain machine called a cut-off, of which the said
Frederick E. Sickles was the inventor, and the said defendants
being the owners of the steamboat called the Columbia, on
which they had in use a certain machine called the throttle
cut-off, the object of bc th of said machines being to save the
consumption of fuel in the use of steam-engines, the said plaintiffs made and entered into a certain contract with 'William
Gunton, the president of the steamboat company, and the
general agent thereof, whereby it was agreed that the said
plaintiffs should construct and place on board the said steamboat one of their said machines at their own cost and expense;
that the same should be tried, and, if it produced any saving,
that the cost of putting the said machine in operation on board
the said boat, not to exceed two hundred and fifty dollars,
should be first paid out of the savings of fuel effected by the
said machine; that the said machine should be used by the
defendants during the continuance of the patent, if the said
boat should last so long; and, after the payment of the said
costs and expenses of putting the said machine in operation on
board the said boat, the savings caused thereby, in the consumption of fuel, should be divided between the said plaintiffs
and defendants in the proportion of one fourth to the defendants and three fourths to the plaintiffs; and, in order to ascertain the amount bf such savings, an experimental trial should
be made at any time the plaintiffs should direct it, after the
said machine was in successful operation, in the following
mode: Two piles of wood should be taken of equal dirnensions; one pile should be used with one of the cut-offs, and
the other pile with the other cut-off, under like circumstances.
and the length of time required in -the consumption of the said

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

423

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et aL

piles of wood, respectively, should be taken as the evidence of
the difference in the amount of savings in the one over the
other; and if the said machine produced no saving, it was to
be taken off, and the boat restored to its former condition, at
the expense of the plaintiffs.
"That the said contract was wholly in parol,,and, within three
days after it was made, the plaintiffs entered into a contract
in writing with T. W. and R. C. Smith, 6f Alexandria, by the
said plaintiffs, as follows: (copied in record;) and the said defendants caused their said boat to lie at Alexandria to have
the said machine fitted to hec engine; that the said T. W. and
R. C. Smith proceeded with all convenient despatch to make
the said machine, and put the same on board the said boat, at
the cost of $242; that the same was completed and placed
on board the said boqt, and in complete action, on the 9th day
of November, 1844, wi th the knowledge of the defendants, and
that the same was continually thereafter, to the bringing of this
suit, used by the said defendants on board the said boat.
" That, on the 19th day of August, 1844, the said Truman
Cook, one of the said plaintiffs, gave notice, on board the said
boat, to the said defendants, by William Gunton, president as
aforesaid, that they desired on the next day, the same being
the regular day for the passage of the said boat from the city
of NVashington to Baltimore, to go on the said .trip and make
the experiment, provided by their said contract, to ascertain
the saving caused by the said machine; and the said William
Gunton, president as afoiesaid, directed the officefs of the said
boat, or one of them, to take care that the said Cook did not
throw sand in his eyes; and on the said 20th day of August.
1844, the said Cook, one of said plaintiffs, did in fact go
from the city of Washington to Baltimore on board the said
boat, and the said experiment was in fact made, under the
superintendence of the officers of said boat on behalf of said
defendants, and by the said Cook on behalf of said plaintiffs.
and the whole was, at the request of plaintiffs, carefully observed and noted by Captain Job Carson, for many years mate
and captain of a steamboat, and the result of the said experiment was, that the said machine of said plaintiffs caused a
saving of fuel, over and above the said 'throttle cut-off,' of
"-',15 per cent., and full, minute, and accurate minutes of the
said experiment, and of the result thereof, were taken and
made in writing by the officers of the said boat, or one of
them; that the average consumption of wood on her said trip
to Baltimore was
cords, and on her trip from Baltimore
was
cords, and the average price of wood, during the
period she ran, from the 9th of November, 1844, to the bringing

424

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

of this suit, was $
, and, estimating the saving by the said
up to the impetramachine at one third, it amounted to $
tion of the writ in this case.
"The plaintiffs further gave evidence to show, by practical
and scientific engineers and builders of steam-engines, that the
said experiment was the only mode by which the said savings
'could be ascertained with any degree of certainty; that it had
been resorted ,to and tried by them; and one of them further
-proved, that, on the experiment conducted by him.to test the
difference between ' Sickles's cut-off' and the 'throttle cut-off,'
in a large steamboat belonging to Baltimore, and having an
.engine of the same construction as that on board the Columbia, the saving of the former over the latter was 42 per cent.;
and they further proved that they were acquainted with both
of the said machines, both theoretically and practically, and
that no engineer would hesitate to say that I Sickles's cut-off'
was far superior to the throttle, and to any other with which
they were acquainted.
"They further gave evidence to show that the said machine
had been applied by the plaintiffs to four other steamboats belonging to the port of the city of Washington, and the saving
of fuel caused thereby ranged from 18 to 33 per cent. on board
the said boats respectively, and that the saving could not be
ascertained by the. amount of wood actually consumed with:out knowing and estimating the condition of the hull, and
engine, and machinery, the state of the weather, the water, the
freight, and the speed of the boat; and the only test was the
-experiment aforesaid, or one conducted on scientific principles
which would give a proximate result.
"To introduction of which said evidence by practical and
-scientific engineers and others, builders of steam-engines, tending to show the operation of the said cut-off, and the savings
aesulting therefrom on other boats, the defendantU, by their
counsel, objected, because the same was inapplicable to the
issue on the first count in the plaintiffs' declaration, and that
the same could not be offered on the general counts, unless the
plaintiffs abandoned the first.
"Which objection the court overruled, and alowed the said
evidence to go to the jury; to which ruling of the court the
defendants, by their counsel, excepted, and prayed that this
their bill of exceptions may be signed and sealed; which is
done this 25th day of March, 1847.
JAS. S. MORSELL,
JAs. DUNLOP.

[SEAL.]
[SEAL.]"

The defendants then offered evidence which is all incorpo-

DECEMBER TERI, 1850.

425

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

rated into the bill of exceptions; but the following is that pa't
upon which the prayer to the court below rested, involving the
point which was argued in this court.
" The defendants, to support the issue on their part, called
William Gunton, late president of the defendants' company,
who being first sworn on his voire dire, stated that he had resigned the office of president of said company, and sold and
transferred all the stock he held therein, and that he was in no
way interested in the event of this suit between the said plain.
tiffs and the defendants; and the said witness, being sworn in
chief, testified that he did not, as president of said company,
or otherwise, make with the said plaintiffs the contract for the
use of the cut-off called Sickles's cut-off, on board the defendants' steamboat called the Columbia, as the same is set forth
in the first count in the plaintiffs' declaration; that some time
in the spring of the year 1844 he first met with Truman Cook,
one of the plaintiffs, and after having conversed several times
with the said Cook on the subject of the application of the
said cut-off to the engine on board the said boat, the said
Cook stated that he was very desirous to bring the cut-off to
the favorable notice of the officers of the government, with the
view of introducing the same into use on board the national
steamships, and other steam-vessels sailing on the waters of
the River Potomac and the Chesapeake Bay; that he, as president of the defendants' company, agreed with.the said Cook
that he might place, at his own expense, the said cixtfoff on
the engine of the said boat, and that if, on trial of the S Lme
on board the said boat, the said cut-off should be approved
of, and the defendants should wish to purchase the same, the
terms of such purchase should be afterwards determined on
between the said parties; but if the said cut-off should not be
approved of, or the terms proposed by said Cook for the use of
the same by the said defendants on their said boat should be
such that the said defendants could not accede thereto, the said
Cook was to take the said cut-off from the said boat at his own
expense, and restore the engine on the said boat to the same
condition in which it was before the application of the said
cut-off thereto; that the said cut-off was placed on the said
engine pursuant to such lest-mentioned agreement, and not in
pursuance of any such agreement as is mentioned in the first
count of the plaintiffs' declaration; that afterwards, and when
the witness, still being president of defendants' said company,
had had an opportunity to form some idea of the value of the
said cut-off, he conversed with said Cook respecting the terms
on which the same might be purchased for the use of the defendants on board the said" boat, and the said Cook i.formed
36*

426

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et aL

the said witness that the defendants should have the use of the
said machine on as favorable terms as the same had been disposed of to the owners of the steamboat Augusta, or any other
steamboat, but did not then, or at any other time; inform the
witness at what price the same had been sold to the said
steamboat Augusta, or any other steamboat, or make any such
definite proposition for the sale of the said machine to the defendants as would enable him to lay the same before the board
of directors of the said company for their approval; and that
the defendants have at no time refused the said Cook or the
plaintiffs permission to remove the same from the engine on
board the said boat, and restore the said engine to its former
condition."
The prayer to the Circuit Court, founded on this evidence,
was as follows "Whereupon the defendants, by their counsel, prayed the
court to instruct the jury, that if the jury believe, from the evidence, that the defendants agreed with the plaintiffs that they,
the said plaintiffs, might, at their own expense, place the cut-off,
called Sickles's cut-off, on the engine of the defendants' boat,
called the Columbia, that they, the said plaintiffs, might exhibit
the qualities and usefulness of the said machine to the public,
and thereby facilitate the introduction of the same into use on
board the national steam-ships, and other steam-vessels sailing
on the waters of the Potomac River and the Chesapeake Bay;
and that if, on the trial of the same on board the Columbia,
the said cut-off should be approved of, and the defendants
should wish to purchase the same, the terms of said purchase
should be afterwards determined on between the said parties;
but if the said cut-off should not be approved of, or the terms
proposed by the plaintiffs to the defendants, for the use thereof,
should be such that the said defendants could not accede thereto, the said plaintiffs were to take the said cut-off from the
said boat at their own expense, and reinstate the boat and her
engine in the same condition in which she was before the application 'of the said cut-off thereto; and that the said cut-off
was placed on the said boat pursuant to said agreement and
permission as aforesaid, and not pursuant to any such contract
as is set out in the first count in the plaintiffs' declaration; and
that the said plaintiffs have made no definite proposition to the
said defendants for the sale and use of the said cut-off, and
have not been refused permission by the defendants to remove
the same from their said boat, then the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover in this action, although the jury should believe
from the evidence that the said machine was approved of, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

427

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et aL

has been used by, the said defendants; which instruction tire
court refused to give, there being only two judges on the bench,
and they being divided in opinion on said instruction ; tW
which refusal the defendants, by their counsel, excepted, and
prayed the court that this their bill of exceptions may be signed
and sealed, which is done, this 25th day of May, 1847.
JAMES S. MORSELL, [SEAL.]
JAMES DUNLOP.

[sEAL.]"

Amongst the evidence brought forward by the defendants,
were the two following letters, which are inserted here because
they are remarked upon by the court in the decision of the remaining exception.
TV. GCwnton to Sickles 4- Cook.
"As I am, week after week, annoyed by warrants, under a
pretended contract never entered into by me, respecting the
cut-off placed under your direction on the steamer Columbia,
and as I have repeatedly explained in writing, both to Messrs.
T. W. and R. C. Smith, of Alexandria, and Mr. A. T. Smith,
of this city, your agent or attorney, what the. understanding
between Mr. Cook and myself was in relation to the subject,
and have expressed my willingness to comply therewith, I
hereby give you notice, that unless you, within ten days from
this date, remove the aforesaid cut-off from the Columbia, and
replace, agreeably to that understanding, her machinery in the
same condition in which it was immediately before the cut-off
vas applied thereto, I shall promptly thereafter cause the work
to be done at your expense, and hold you liable for the same,
in addition to the amount of expense incurred and loss sustained, by reason of the detentions of the Columbia, mentioned in my letters to your agent, Mr. A. T. Smith, before alluded to.

W.
'

"Vashington City, 14th April, 1841.
MEssRs. SICKLEs & CooK."

GUNTON,

President.

Reply to the above.

"Dn.

WILLIAM, GUNTON,

President:-

"1We have received your note of the 14th instant, and hasten
to reply to it, to avoid any future misapprehension on your
part of the positions we respectively hold. You have chosen
to make terms entirely different from those under which we
contracted with you; have refused to execute your contract
with.us; have driven us to the necessity of a suit; and we
are now resolved to bring the matter to an issue.

428

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et aL

"You complain that you are annoyed by warrants. It is
your own fault. You say that you have repeatedly [stated] to
Messrs. T. W. and R. C. Smith, of Alexandria, and Mr. A. T.
Smith, of this city, what the understanding between Mr. Cook
and yourself was in relation to this subject, and have expressed
yourself willing to comply therewith. We have, as often as
occasion and opportunity offered, stated to you, in the plainest
terms, that your representations thus made were not the terms
of our contract, and have as clearly and diptinctly stated to
you what that contract was. We now repeat it. We undertook to put Sickles's cut-off on the. engine of the steamer Columbia, and offered to receive $ 1,000 for the right to use -it.
You, seeming to doubt the importance of the invention, declined that offer; and we then offered to put the cut-off on,
taking as a compensation for its use the value of three fourths
of the fuel saved by its use, deducting from the first savings
$250 for the construction of the m,-.chine, the savings to be ascertained .byeither of us by experiments with our cut-off and
the old one attached to the engine of the Columbia, and you
were to continue the use of our cut-off, provided we made it
work well, so long as the boat continued to belong to your
company. These terms you accepted inthe most unequivocal
manner. We employed the Messrs. Smith to construct the
machine. This was all they had to do with it. They did
make it, and it was applied, and has operated successfully.
Persons were directed on board the boat to make accurate observafions of the saving. It was found to be far greater than
you had any idea of. We asked for compensation, and you
denied the contract. Your own acts have compelled us to
bring suit; and, in order to bring the matter to a close after
that suit was brought, -we took out a warrant against your
company, so that either party might, by appeal, bring the question at once before the court for judicial decision. These are
resisted on technical grounds, and now you give us notice to
remove the cut-off However much we might be disposed to
avoid litigation, and to terminate all controversy by an amicable adjustment, the course you have taken has determined us,
and we now give you notice that we will not only not interfere with the cut-off on board the Columbia, and hereby protest against your interfering with it, but we will every week
bring an action to recover the amount of saving coming to us
on the terms of our iontract with yoni. Until we can get a
judicial decision in the matter, you must choose for yourself.
"

Waslingtan, 15th April, 1846."

SICKLES & COOx.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

429

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

The remaining prayer to the Circuit Court was as follows

-

"9The defendants, by their counsel, further prayed the court to
instruct the jury, that if the jury believe, from the evidence, that
the contract set out in the first count of the declaration, and
alleged to have been made by the plaintiffs and William Gunton, the president of the defendants' said company, was never
authorized by a board or quorum of the directors of said company, as provided by their charter of incorporation, and was
never sanctioned or approved of by said board or quorum of
the said directors, and that the said William Gunton, in making such contract with the plaintiffs, if the jury believe the
same to have been made by him, did not act within the scope
of his authority as such president, then the said contract is
void as respects the said defendants, and the said plaintiffs
are not entitled to recover under the said first count in their
declaration; which instruction the court refused, but granted
the same, with the following modification: but if, from the
evidence, the jury shall find that William Gunton, the president of the defendants' company, and acting as their general
agent, made with the plaintiffs the contract set out in the first
count of the said declaration, and that the plaintiffs, under
the said contract, put the said machine on the defendants' boat,
and the same was used by the defendants at the time and
times mentioned in the said count, and that the same was
beneficial to the defendants, then the plaintiffs are entitled to
redover on the said first count, notwithstanding the jury shall
find that the terms of the said contract were not communicated
to the defendants, and the said William Gunton reported to
the said defendants a different contract; to which refusal of
the said instruction, and modification thereof, the defendants,
by their counsel, excepted, and prayed that this their bill of exceptions may be signed and sealed, which is done this 25th day
of May, 1847.
JAMES

S. MORSELL, [SEAL.1

JAMES DUNLOP.

[SEAL."

The jury found a verdict for the plaintis, and assessed the
damages at 8 1,800, with interest from the ,9th of November,
1845. A writ of error brought these several rulihg of the Circuit Court before this court for revision.
It was argued by 11r. Lawrence, for the plaintiffs in error,
and by M11r. Lee and 11. Bradley, for the defendants in error.
The argument on beh;!f of the plaintiffs in error, with respect to the admissibility of the evidence, was as follows: -

430

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et aL

1st. The same was inapplicable to the issue on the first
count in the plaintiffs' declaration.
2d. That the same could not be offered on the general co- -'
unless the plaintiffs abandoned the first.
The plaintiffs in error insist that the court erred in allowing
the evidence objected to by them to go to the jury: .1st. Because it was in no way applicable to the issue on the
special count in the plaintiffs' declaration; it did not tend to
prove any one of the allegations contained.in that couint, and
was therefore irrelevant and collateral.
The plaintiffs allege that a special mode of testing the value
of their machine, in contrast with that previously used on board
the defendants' boat, was agreed upon by the parties, and constituted part of their contract; the experiment was, as they
allege, to be made on board the Columbia. It was therefore
wholly immaterial to the point in issue on the first or special
eount what had been the result of experiments made on board
steambgats in Baltimore or Washington; the defendants had
no *notice of such experiments, were not present at them, and
ought not to be affected by them.
Neither was it proper to give in evidence the opinion of engineers or steamboat-builders, however well informed as to the
relative value of the two machines, particularly as the plaintiffs
allege a special mode of ascertaining the difference in value
had been agreed on by the parties in their alleged contract.
It is a familiar rule of evidence, that it must correspond with
the allegations in the pleadings of the party who offers it 1
Greenleaf on Evidence, §§ 51 and 52.
This rule excludes all evidence of collateral facts; the admission of evidence of that character tends to divert the minds
of the jury, to excite prejudice, and mislead them; the adverse
party is taken by suiprise, and, cannot be prepared-to rebut it.
Thus, where the issue between a landlord and his tenrant
was whether rent was payable quarterly or half-yearly, evidence of the mode in which other tenants of the same landlord paid their rent was held by Lord Kenyon inadmissible.
Peake's Cases, 95.
So the opinions of engineers, and the results of experiments
on other boats, ought not to have been allowed.
2dly. This evidence -nw not admissible under the quantun
2neruit count.
Where thereis an express contract, and a stipulated mode
of compensation, the party rendering the services cannot waive
the contract, and resort to an action on a quantunb meruit, or
an implied assumpsit. Champlin v. Butler, 18 Johns. 169.
XWhere the special agreement subsists in full force, the plain-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

431

Steam Packet Co: v. Sickles et al.

tiff cannot recover under the common counts, but the remedy
is on the contract. Buller's N. P. 139; Raymond v. Bearnard,
12 Johns. 274; Jennings v. Camp, 13 Johns. 94; Clarke v.
Smith, 14 Johns. 326; Wood v. Edwards, 19 Johns. 205;
Perkins v. Hart's Executor, 11 Wheat. 237.
In the case before the court, the contract was subsisting and
continuing; it was to last as long as the defendants should
continue to employ the boat Columbia, if the patent for the
machine continue4 so long. The plaintiffs had declared upon
it as a subsisting contract. The quantum reruit count was
for the same subject-matter as the special contract.
In the case of Cooke v. lunstone, 1 Bos. & Pull. N. R. 354,
the declaration contained a count on a special contract, and a
count for money had and received to the use of the plaintiff; the
plaintiff failed to prove the contract laid, but proved another variant from it; he claimed to recover on his common counts; the
court decided that the plaintiff could not proceed on the common counts. The court said, "The cases in which the plaintiff
has been allowed to proceed on these counts are those in which
the special contract is put altogether out of the case; it would
be very strange to allow the plaintiffs to recover on the general
indebitatus assumpsit, and still leave him to his right to recover
for non-performance of his special contract; it is said he has a
right to proceed at the same time ou the special and on thegeneral count, but the cases only warrant a permission to resort to the latter when the former has failed altogether. In
this case, if we were to allow the plaintiff to go into the evidence he offered, it would amount to saying that there was no
evidence of asubsisting special agreement, when in truth there
was such evidence2'
In Clarke v. Smith, 14 Johns. 326, the declaration contained 'a count on a special agreement, and the common
counts relative to the same subject-matter. The plaintiff,
at the trial, proceeded to give evidence under the common
counts; the witness, on cross-examination, said there was a
writteNi contract between the parties, under which the work
was done; objection was then madd to the plaintiffs giving
evidence under the common counts, which was overruled by
the court.
On appeal, this was held to be error, and it was decided,
that whenever the special contract is still subsisting, and no
act done or omitted by the one party which would authorize
the other to consider the contract rescinded, the remedy must
be on the special contract, which principle will be found to run
through all the cases.
While the contract is still subsisting, part performafice will

432

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. SickIes et al.

not entitle the plaintiff to resort to the common counts to recover the value of that which he has done in part fulfilment
of the contract.
If the plaintiffs could not resort to the common count, they
ought not to have been allowed, the defendants objecting, to,
give evidence applicable only to that count. There was conflicting testimony respecting the value of the machine, and the
minds of the jury must have been affected by the testimony
thus improperly offered.
I With respect to the exception founded on the refusal of the
court to grant the first prayer made by the defendants below,
tile error alleged was this.
If the plaintiffs acted under a special agreement with the
defendants in putting the said machine on the defendants'
boat, and there was any failure on the part of the defendants
to comply therewith in any respect, the proper and only remedy
for the plaintiffs was by action on that special agreement.
Whether the agreement was such as the plaintiffs pretended,
or such.as the defendants pretended, while such agreement was
subsisting, there could be no remedy for the plaintiffs on the
common counts.
If the agreement was such as the plaintiffs have set out in
the first count in their declaration, and the jury believed the
evidence introduced to prove the same by the plaintiffs, then
they were entitled to recover on that couxit.
But if the jury gave greater credence and weight to the evidence offered by the defendants to sustain the issue on their
part, and believed the contract to be proved to be such as the
defendants set up, then the plaintiffs were not entitled to re-

cover ;1st. Because of their failure to prove the contract set out by
them.
2d. Because a different contract was proved by the defendants, of which there was no breach on their part alleged or
proved, and which was still subsisting.
It is clear from the terms of the agreement, as shown by the
defendants' evidence, that the machine was not put on the defendanits' boat to be used by them under a con-tract of purchase,
nor was the use thereof to be paid for by the defendants; it
was put on board by permission of the defendan~s at the request of the -plaintiffs, and for their advantage; the plaintiffs
were at liberty to remove it at their pleasure. If the defendants -hould wish to acquire the right to use it permanently, it
was to be made the subject of a future agreement.
If the jury believed this, and certainly the defendants' evidence
tended to prove it, and no subsequent contract was alleged or

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

433

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles ot al.

proved, and no offer by the plaintiffs to remove the machine
from the boat, and refusal by the defendants to allow it, either
alleged or proved, then the plaintiffs made out no case against
the defendants; and, when asked by the defendants, it was the
duty of the court so to tell the jury, and their refusal was an
error.
The court seem to have been of opinion, that, notvithstanding the jury might believe, from the evidence, that the defendants did not contract with the plaintiffs either for the purchase
or use of the machine, and that the same was put on board
the plaintiffs' boat for their own benefit and advantage with
the public; yet, as the same had been used by the defendants,
and they had derived benefit therefrom, they ought to pay for
it; and, if they refused to do so, the plaintiffs had a right to
recover for such use.
Respecting the last prayer, the plaintiffs in error contend that
the court erred in refusing the instruction as originally asked
for, and in giving the same with said modification.
In the third section of defendants' said charter it is provided
that the affairs of the company shall be conducted by four
directors and a president; that two directors and the president
shall form a quorum for transacting all the business of the
company.
In the fifth section it is provided -that the president and directors shall have full power to use, employ, and dispose of the
funds and property of the company for the interest and benefit
of the stockholders, and agreeably to the objects of the said act
of incorporation.
The president of the company has, as such, no power to
bind the company by contract; he may be authorized to act as
the special ag-ent of the company in some particular case, or
generally in the performance of some prescribed duties. His
power as agent of the company cannot be without scope or
limit. An act of the board authorizing the president to act as
universal agent, with unlimited authority to act for, and dis..
pose of, the property of the company, would be a violation of
the charter, and void.
If it be assumed that Mr. Gunton made with the plaintiffs
the contract set out in the declaration, he acted in doing so as
rhe president or agent of the company, and within some supposed limits. If the act done was within the scope of his authority, the company was bound by it. If, howevei, the act
done was not within the scope of his authority, then the company was not bound by it.
It is not contended that third persons are to be affected by
the private restrictions which a principal may impose on his
VOL. x.
37

434

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

agent; it is conceded that, whenever an act is within the scope
of the agent's authority, the principal is bound. Story on the
Law of Agency, § 127.
In the instruction which the court refused, they were asked
to say to the jury that, if they believed, from the evidence, that
Mr. Gunton, in making the said contract, did not act within
A
the scope of his authority as such president, and that the said
contract was never authorized or sanctioned by the board of
directors, then the same was void as respects the defendants.
In refusing this instruction the court left the jury to understand that the contract was binding on the defendants ; notwithstanding it was not within the scope of Mr. Gunton's
authority, as president, and so agent of the company, to make
it; And the same had never been authorized or sanctioned by
the board of directors.
This ruling on the part of the court, as the subsequent modification shows, had its basis in an opinion herd by them that
the defendants, having had the use of the machine, if they
were benefited thereby, were, at all events, bound to pay for it.
The subsequent granting of this instruction, with the modification attached to it by the court, magnified the error of their
first refusal.
The plain and fair construction of the whole is this: That
if the jury believe Mr. Gunton, in making said contract, acted
beyond the scope of his authority, as president of the company,
and that .the contract was never authorized or sanctioned by
the bodrd of directors, the contract was void; yet if he, being
the president of the defendants' company, and acting as their
general agent, did make the said contract, even if he did exceed his authority, and the plaintiffs, undei said contract, put
their machine on the defendants' boat, and it was used by the
defendants, and was beneficial to them, then ihe plaintiffs are
entitled to recover under the special count in the declaration;
that is, they are entitled to recover Tor the beneficial use on the
first or special count in the declaration.
One of the terms of the contract, as set out in the declaration, is, that the whole of the value of the savings which should
be effected by the plaintiffs' machine over the old throttle cutoff should be applied to pay for the cost of the machine, &c.,
and after that three fourths of the savings thus effected should
be paid to the plaintiff, and the amount was to be ascertained
in a certain way.
The instructions given by the court to the jury do not limit
the right of the plaintiffs to recover according to the terms of
their alleged agreement, but they affirm their -ight to recover
if the jury believed the machine was used, and was beneficial

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

435

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

to the plaintiffs. The court say they may recover for the beneficial use, and that under the special contract. The jury are
not told that the beneficial use of the plaintiffs' machine must,
in their judgment, exceed that of the old throttle cut-off. It is
sufficient, in the judgment of the court, that the defendants had
used the machine, and that that use was beneficial, to authorize
the plaintiffs to recover to the extent of the value of such use.
If the ruling of the court had been, that, if the jury believed
that Mr. Gunton in making the contract exceeded his authority, and therefore that the contract was void as against the
defendants, in the aksence of any contract binding the defendants the plaintiffs might recover under the common count,
if they believed the defendants used the plaintiffs' machine,
and it was beneficial to them, there would have been no error
in their instruction;- but such is not the ruling of the court.
They say, that if th6 machine was put on the boat under the
special contract, and was used by the defendants and proved
beneficial, the plaintiffs may recover the value of such use on
the count on that ontract.
The following authorities were relied on: Bank of Columbia v. Pdtterson's Administrator, 7 Cranch,
206; Head and Amory v. Providence Insurance Co., 2 Cranch,
127; Fleckner v. Bank of U. States, 8 Wheat. 338; Rank of
U, States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64.
The counsel for the defendants in error, with respect to the
admissibility of the evidence, conceded that the evidence was
not admissible under the first count in the declaration, and that
it was not offered as applicable to that count, but contended
that it was clearly admissible under the second count. The
propriety of joining a count on the special agreement with a
common count cannot be doubted. It is the usual and proper
course. Arch. Civ. P1. 174.
Where there is a special agreement, the rules are, 1st. So long as the contract is -'esutory, to declare specially; when executed, and the paynent is to be in money, the
general counts may be used. Streeter v. Horlock, 1 Bing. 34,
37; Study v. Sanders, 5 Barn. & Cres. 628; Tuttle v. Mayo,
7 Johns. 132; Robertson v. Lynch, 18 Johns. 451.
2d. Where the contract has been partly performed, and has
been abandoned by mutual consent, or rescinded by some act
of defendant, plaintiff may use the common counts. Robson
v. Godfrey, 1 Stark. 275.
3d. Where work has been done under a special agreement,
but not in the time or manner stipulated, has been accepted
by and is beneficial to defendant, the common counts may be

436

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

resorted to. Keck's case, Bull. N. P. 139; Bur v. Miller, 4
Taunt. 745; Streeter v. Horlock, 1 Bing. 34 ; Jewell v. Sohroeppel, 4 Cow. 564; Taft v. Montague, 14 Mass. 282.
These are general principles now universally admitted..
But it is supposed the plaintiffs were bound to waive or
abandon their first count before they could resort to the conmon count. Is this so ?
It was contested, and they had a right to give evidence as to
both. They were both good counts. It was competent for
them to have the verdict entered on whichever count they
pleased, or the court might have instructed the jury at the instance of either-party. If the contract had been admitted, the
case would have been different. Here the whole matter was in
pais, and the court was right in admitting the evidence.
As to the first prayer.
The rules already presented furnish a conclusive answer to
this. If the machine was placed on the boat under the agreement assumed by this prayer, it is still quite clear the plaintiffs
were entitled to compensation for the time it was used by the
defendants, if it was beneficial to them, although they should
not have agreed on the terms.
It proceeds on the hypothesis, that the plaintiffs would place
the machine on the boat at their own expense, and for their
own "lenefit; and if, on trial, it should be approved of by the
defendants, and they should desire to purchase it, the terms of
such purchase should be afterwards determined on between
the parties; but if it should not be approved, or the terms proposed by said Cook for the use of the sarae should be such
that defendants could not accede thereto, plaintiffs should remove it at their own expense, and replace che boat in as good
condition as before. This is, however, but a partial statement
of the evidence. It was approved of. The defendants conferred with Cook about the price, and he said they should have
the use of the machine on as favorable terms as the same had
been disposed of to the Augusta, or any other steamboat; but
he did not state what those terms were.
The Augusta was a boat running in the same waters; the
Osce6la was another. The means of ascertaining the price
were within the reach of defendants. The defendants understood this to be a distinct and binding offer. They did not
reject it; but continued to use the m--cbine after these terms
were proposed.
It was a contract of sale or use. The plaintiffs had done
their part, executed the contract, and the payment was to be
made in money. They might resort to the common count.
See cases under the first rule above. They gave evidence to

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

437

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

show the terms on which the Osceola had it. This was the
measure of the sum which they could recover on the common
count. It was competent for defendants to have proved that
the terms with the Augusta were more favorable if they had
chosen to do so. But the court was asked to say they could
not recover at all in this action, rejecting the second count altogether.
As to the fourth exception.
The instruction assumes that the defendants' president must
have been authorized by a board or quorum of the directors, or
his act sanctioned and approved by such board or quorum, to
make it binding on the company.
It admits the making of the contract It was a contract
eminently beneficial to the company, saving more than one
third of the fuel. It was made by the general agent of the
company in the ordinary discharge of his duties. They were
bound to know its terms. If they chose to avail themselves of
the benefits without inquiring into those terms, or if they believed, from the report of their said agent, that he had made a
different contract, they are still bound by the contract which he
did make. Bank of Columbia v. -Patterson's Adm., 7 Cranch,
299; lechanics' Bank v. Bank of Columbia, 5 Wheat. 326;
Fleckner v. Bank of UI. States, 8 Vheat. 338; Bank of U.
States v. Dandridge, 15 Wheat. 64; Bank of letropolis v.
Guttschlick, 14 Pet. 27.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Sickles and Cook, plaintiffs below, filed their declaration in
assumpsit, containing two counts.
The first sets forth a parol contract made with William Gunton, president of the steamboat company and general agent
thereof, in which it was agreed that the plaintiffs should construct and place on board the steamboat Columbia a certain
machine invented by Sickles, called a "cat-off," at their own
cost; that the machine should be tried, and, if it was found to
produce any saving of fuel, that the cost of putting it in operation, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, should be
first paid out of the savings of fuel effected by the machine;
that the machine should be used by the defendants during the
continuance of the patent, if the boat should last so long; and
after paying for its erection, the savings caused thereby in the
consumption of fuel should be divided between the plaintiffs
and defendants in the proportion of one fourth to defendants
and three fourths to plaintiffs. The mode of ascertaining the
amount oT saving is specially set forth,-and the plaintiffs
aver that they erected their cut-off, on said steamboat at the
37 *

SUPREME COURI.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles el al,

cost of $ 242, on the 9th of November, 1844, andthat it was
afterwards ascertained in the mode agreed upon, that the saving of fuel caused by using plaintiffs' cut-off exceeded that
of the "throttle cut-off," before used by defendants, by 34--per cent.; and that the amount saved over and above the price
of erection when this suit was brought was $ 2,500. For the
amount of the $ 242, and three fourths of the latter sum, this
suit is brought.
There is a second count, for putting the machine on the boat
at request of defendants, with a quantum meruit.
On the trial of.the cause below, evidence was given tending
to prove the special contract as laid in the first count, and that
the experiment to test the value had been made in the manner
agreed upon, with the result as stated in the declaration.
The plaintiffs then offered to show experiments made by practical engineers on other boats, and the result thereof, with the
opinion of the said engineers as to thec value of their cut-off.
This evidence was objected to, and its admission is the subject
of the first bill of exceptions, sealed at request of defendants.
The objection to this evidence is, that the mode of ascertaining the value of plaintiffs' cut-off is specially stated in the declaration, and no other could be resorted to.' But we think that,
even if there were no other count in the declaration than that
-on the special contract, this objection cannot be sustained.
The plaintiffs had given in evidence the experiment made in
pursuance of their alleged agreement, and as this testimony
tended only to corroborate it, and not to contradict it, or en'large the claim of the plaintiffs beyond that ascertained by the
experiment made by the parties, it cannot be said to be irrel-evant or incompetent; at most, it could only be said to 'be
superfluous. But assuming that it was irrelevant on the first
count, it is clearly not so as regards the common count on a
quantum reruit. The plaintiffs had an undoubted right to give
evidence which might enable them to recover on the latter count,
-in case the defendants should succeed in establishing their plea
of non-assumpsit as to the first. In this view -of the case, the
competency and relevancy of the testimony cannot be doubted.
To support the issue on their part, the defendants then called
William Gunton, the late president of the company,who wholly
denied that he made such a contract as that declared on by
plaintiffs, and stated that plaintiffs expressed to him a desire
to bring their "cut-off" to the favorable notice of the g6vernment, with a view of introducing it on board the national steamships. That he gave them leave to erect their machine on the
boat at their own expense, and agreed that, if, on trial, the
machine should be approved by the defendants, they would

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

439

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

purchase it, on terms to be afterwards agreed upon; but if
not approved, or the terms of purchase offered by plaintiffs
should be such as defendants would not accept, then plaintiffs
should have leave to take off their machine at their own expense. That afterwards, when the plaintiffs' terms were asked,
they said defendants should have the machine on the same
terms as the steamboat Augusta and other boats, but would
not then or at any other time state definitely what those terms
were, or what price the Augusta had given, or the plaintiffs
would be willing to take, so that it could be laid before the
company for their approval. That defendants had never refused permission to plaintiffs to take away the machine from
the boat, if they so desired to do. Certain letters were also
given in evidence, the contents of which it is not necessary to
state in order to understand the instructions given to the jury
which are now the subject of exception.
Four several bills of exception have been taken to the refusal
of the court to give four items of instruction to the jury. Two
of these only are relied on here. The first may be briefly stated
thus: - That if the jury believed the testimony of NVilliar
Gunton, and that the contract between the parties was such as
he stated, defendants were entitled to a verdict. This instruction was refused by a divided court.
We are of opinion that the defendants were clearly entitled
to have this instruction given to the jury, as the testimony, if
believed by theni, fully supported the defendants' plea, and
showed that the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover on either
count in their declaration. They could not recover on the first
count, for this testimony showed that there was no such contract between the parties as that set forth in it; nor on the
count on a quantum raeruil, for the use of the machine, for
that would be a repudiation of the contract as proved. If the
plaintiffs put their machine on board of defendantg' boat for
the purpose of experiment, on an agreement that defendants
should pay for it if on trial they approved it, and-were willing
to give the price asked, otherwise the plaintiffs should have
leave to take it away, - it certainly needs no argument to
show, that, without stating their terms, or offering to fulfil their
contract by a sale of the machine, the plaintiffs cannot repudiate it and sue for the use of the machine. This would be a
palpable fraud on the defendants.
The only other exception urged to the charge of the court
below is in the answer given by the court to the fourth instruction prayed; which is as follows :"If, from the evidence, the jury shall find that William Gunton, the president of the defendants' company, and acting as

440

SUPREME COURT.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

their general agent, made with the plaintiffs the contract set out
in the first count of the said declaration, and that the plaintiffs,
under the said contract, put the said machine on the defendants' boat, and the same was used by the defendants at the
time and times mentioned in the said count, and that the same
was beneficial to the defendants, then the plaintiffs are entitled
to recover on the said first count, notwithstanding the jury shall
find that the terms of the said contract were not communicated
to the defendants, and the said William Gunton reported to
the said defendants a different contract."
We find no fault with this instruction, so far as it states the
liability of defendants for the acts of Gunton as their general
agent whether he reported his agreement to the defendants or
not, If he was their general agent, and had power to make
such contract, his failure to communicate it to his principals
cannot affect the case. But we are of opinion, that the court
erred in stating that the plaintiffs had a right to recover on
their special count, if the machine was useful to the defendants, without regarding the stipulations of said contract as laid
and proved, and the fact that the plaintiffs had refused to rescind it, and had expressed their determination to adhere to it
and "to bring an action every week to recover the amount of
saving on the terms of the contract."
If the plaintiffs had complied with the request of the president of the company, in a letter addressed to them on the 14th
of April, 1841, after the dispute about the nature of the contract had arisen, and taken their cut-off from the boat, and thus
put an end to the contract, the instructions given by the court
would have been undoubtedly correct. But as the record
shbws that the plaintiffs have refused to annul the contract, a
very important question arises, - whether this action and five
hundred others, which the plaintiffs have expressed their determination to continue to institute, can be supported on this one
contract. By the contract as proved and declared on, the defendants, after the machine has been erected 6n their boat, are
to continue to use it "during the continuance of the patent,"
if the boat should last so long. The compensation to be paid
by the defendants is to be measured by the amount of saving
of fuel which the machine shall effect. The mode of ascertaining this saving is pointed out, and the ratio in which it is
to be divided. The first $ 250 saved are all to go to the plaintiffs, and three fourths of all the balance. But the c ntract
is wholly silent as to the time when any account shall be rendered or payments made. The defendants have not agreed to
pay by the trip, or settle their account every day, or weeX, or
year; or at the end of 271 weeks, the time for which this suit is

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

instituted. The agreement on the part of the plaintiffs is, that
the defendants shall use their machine for a certain time, in
consideration of which defendants are to pay a certain sum of
money. It is true, the exact sum is not stated; but the mode
of rendering it certain is fully set forth. It is one entire contiact, which cannot be divided into a thousand, as the plaintiffs
imagine. If the defendants had agreed to pay by instalments
at the end of every week, or twenty-seven weeks, doubtless the
plaintiffs could have sustained an action for the breach of each
promise, as the breaches successively occurred. But it is a wellsettled principle of law, that, "unless there be some express stipulation to the contrary, whenever an entire sum is to be paid
for the entire work, the performance or service is a condition
precedent; being one consideration and one debt, it cannot be
divided." It was error, therefore, to instruct the jury that the
plaintiffs were entitled to recover on the first count, if their machine was used-by the defendants, and was beneficial to them,
without regard to the fact of the rescission, or continuance, or
fulfilment, of the contract on the part of the plaintiffs.
*Whether,if there had been a count in the declaration for the
942, and the jury had believed that the defendants had agreed
to pay it as soon as it was earned, the plaintiffs might not recover to that amount, or whether such a construction could be
put on the contract as proved, are questions not before us, and
on which we therefore give no opinion.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Cnurt, with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

