82

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et al. v. Graham.

below, the defendant in error, in the second; and removed to
the third judicial district of the Territory, to recover possession
of a small piece of land; and was commenced on the 16th
of April, 1845.
Issue being joined between the parties, such proceedings
were had thereon, that judgment was afterwards. rendered
,against the defendants in the June term of said court in the
year 1846.
The case was afterwards removed to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and the judgment of the court below affirmed by
a divided opinion at the July term of that cotrt, to wit on
the 2d of August, 1847.
The judgment was afterwards removed to this court by a
writ of error for review. The citation is signed 22d November, 1847.
The case was, therefore, pending here on the 29th of May,
1848, at the time of the admission of the Tertitory into the
Union as a State. It is one not of a Federal chartcter, but
belonging to the State judicature, and therefore falls within
the decision of the case of 'McNulty v. Batty and others, just
made, and the writ of, error must be abated.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard onthe transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wisconsii,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this writ of
error be, and the same is hereby, abated.

JACOB

AND Joax AnxSTRONG, PLAINTIfS
STRADER, I.ix
JAMES
EnRO,GORMAN,
v. CwHISTOPHER GRAIAM.

Under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, this court has no.Jurisdiction over the
following question, viz. "Whether slaves who had been permitd by their master
to pass occasionally from Kentucky into Ohio acquired thereby a right to fredom
etckalncoddeiepn
atether asr to wetuk 1' Teasof
fte U ied Ste..r
r
ese
sitto
thi"
o
in
upo. th m b tS h
exep
obligations~~impased
There is nothing in the Constitution of the United States that can in tny degree
control the law of Kentucky upon this subject.
The Ordinance of 1787 cannot confer jurisdiction upon this court. It was itself su-perseded by the adoption of the Constitution of The United States, which placed
.a perfect equality, which they would not be if
all the States of the Union
the Ordinance continued to be in force after its adoption.

Such of the provisions of the Ordinance as are yet in farce owed their validity to

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

83

Strader et al. v. Graham.
acts- of Congress passed under the present Constitution, during the Territorial
government of the Northwest Territory, and since to the constitutions, and laws
of the States formed in it.

TN error to the Court of Appeals for the State of Kentucky.
The defendant in error, who was a citizen of Kentucky, filed
his bill in the Louisville Chancery Court, against Jacob Strader and James Gorman, who were citizens of Ohio, and owners of the steamboat Pike, which 'plied -between Louisville,
Kentucky, and Cincinnati, Ohio, and John Armstrong, who'
was the captain of said steamboat.
The bill allege. that the complainant was the owner of three
negro slaves, George, Henry, and Reuben, of the value of about
fifteen hundred dollars each, who had left his residence at
Harrodsburg, Kentucky, and made their way to Louisville,
whence they were taken on board of said steamboat Pike, and
carried to Cincinnati, from which place they" escaped to Canada, and were lost to their owner. Complainant averred that
he had a lien on said boat by reason of the asportation of said
slaves, for the damages he had sustained, and prayed an attachment and sale of said boat, and general relief.
An attachment was ordered and served, but the boat was relieved upon bond being given to perform all orders of the court,
or to have the boat forthcoming.
Two of the defendants in the court below (Strader and Gorman), in their answer, stated that they were not on board the
boat at the tinle of the alleged transportation, had no knowledge of such transportation, and they therefore denied it.
They alleged that the boat was under the command of the defendant Armstrong, her captain, and that the negroes in question had been permitted by the complainant to travel out of
the Commbnwealth as if free; and in an amended answer,
they averred that, long before the alleged transportation, the
said negroes had actually become free. The answer of- Armstrong was substantially to -the same effect. There were various proceedings had in the State c,.rts, the case having been
twice carried to the Court of Appeals, when Graham finally
succeeded in obtaining a decree in the Louisville Chancery
Court for $ 3,000 damages, to be paid before a day named, or
the boat, her furniture, tackle, &c., to be sold if forth'coming,
and.if not forthcoming, the court to make the neees~ary order
against the obligors, in said forthcoming bond; which decxee
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. To revefse the -decree
of affirmance, this writ of error wa sued out.
By the statute of Kentucky approved 7th January, 1824,
any master or commander of a steamboat or other vessel, who
shall hire or employ, or take as passengers on-board of such

84

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et aL v. Graham.

steamboat or other vessel, or suffer it to be done, or otherwise
take out of the limits of the Commonwealth, any slave or slaves,
without permission of the master of suchslave or slaves, shall
be liable to damages to the party aggrieved by such removal;
and the steamboat or other vessel on board of which such offence was committed shall, be liable, and may be proceeded
against in chancery, and may be condemned and sold to .pay
such damages and costs of suit.
The amended act, approved 12th February, 1828, extends the
remedies given by the former act, so as to embrace the owners,
mate, clerk, pilot, and engineer, as well as the master, and they
are declared to be liable to the action of the party aggrieved,
"either jointly with the masters, or severally, and either at law
or in chancery."
It appeared in evidence, that the negroes were the slaves of
Graham, and that they were musicians; that, for their improvement in music, two of them were placed under the care of one
Williams, who was a skilful performer and leader of a band,
and were permitted to go with him to Louisville, and other
places, and play with him at public entertainments. The following permit was filed as an exhibit, and proved.

"1Harrodsburg,Agust 30th, 1837.
"1This is to give liberty to my boys, Henry and Reuben, to
go to Louisville, with Williams, and~to play with him till I
may -wish to call them home. Should Williams find it his
interest to take them to Cincinnati, New Albany, or any part
of the South, even so far as New Orleahs, he is at liberty to do
so. I receive no compensation for their services, except that he
is to board and clothe them.
"My object is to have them well rpined in music. They
are young, -one 17 and the other 19 years of age. They are
both of good disposition and strictly honest, and such is my
confidence in them, that I have no fear that they will ever [act]
knowingly wrong, or put me to trouble. They are slaves for
life, and I paid for them an unusual sum; they have been faithful, hard-working servants, and I have no fear but that they will
always be true to their duty, no matter in what situation they
may be placed.
C. GRAHAM,, M. D.
"P. S. Should they not attend properly to their music, or
disobey Williams, he is not only at liberty, but requested, to
bring them directly home.

C.

AHAX."

Under this permission, Williams, in the year 1837, made several excursions -with his band, including the slaves Reuben and
.Henry, to Cincinnati, Ohio, and New Albany and Madison,

DECEMBER TERM,

1850.

85

Strader et aL v. Graham.

Indiana, for the purpose of playing at balls or publicentertainments; after which he returned to Louisville, his place of residence, said slaves returning with him; from which time to the
time of their escape in 1841, they had remained within the
State of Kentucky.
The case was argued by Mr. Jones, for the plaintiffs in error,
and 11'. Criltenden, Attomey-General, for the defendants in
error.
.Mr. Jones, for the plaintiffs in error.
The owner of the slaves in question placed them under the
care of a person to learn music, who carried them out of the
State of Kentucky into an adjoining free State to play at balls
and parties for hire. 'As soon, then, as they touched the soil of
Indiana or Ohio, with the consent of their master, the quality of
freedom attached to iheir persons, and could never afterwards be
dissociated from them; and it made no difference Whether they
went permanently, or as mere temporary sojourners. Theie
was no distinction, either in reason or in law, to be drawn from
the mere duration of commorancy, if the removal to a free
.State was voluntary on the part of the slave and with the permission of the master. The Ordinance of 1787 declares that
neither slavery nor involuntary servitude shall exist in the
Northwest Territory. The laws of Ohio and Indiana only reiterate the provisions of that Ordinance. The instant, therefore,
the slave came within the boundaries of such States, the laws
of those States took effect upon his condition, and eo instanti
he became clothed with every attribute of freedom.
Mr. Jones concluded the opening argument by reading from
the brief of Mr. Duncan, filed in the case, as follows: . The Ordinance of 1787 was made after Somerset's case, and
after several of 'our States had passed laws, whose object was
to put an end to slavery within their jurisdictions, by.operating
on the post nati. It has been claimed to be a solemn compact,
as well as an ordinance. Its provisions are as-broad and comprehensive as they could be made, inhibiting slavery and involuntary servitude, except for crime, within the Northvest Territory.
That the courts of Kentucky are bound to take notice of this
Ordinance, and to know judicially that slavery is forbidden in
this Northwest Territory, are propositions long since settled by
the Appellate Court of Kentucky. See Rankin v. Lydia, 2 A.
K. Marshall, 467.
When Ohio and Indiana were permitted to make their constitutions, and were admitted into the Union by acts of Congress, the courts of Kentucky were still. bound to know, judiVOL. x.

8

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et aL v. Graham.

cially, that slavery was prohibited there by the fundamental
law of each of those States. It will not be forgotten, that all
this Territory and Kentucky were component parts of Virginia
when the Ordinance was made.
By force of the Ordinance and of the Constitution of the
United States, and the acts of Congress for the admission of
Ohio and Indiana 4as States, those States stand as to the suboject of slavery like England, excepting only the cases provided
for by the Constitution- of the United States, and fairly embraced wit Ihin its provisions.
.For national purposes, all of our States aye governed by the
same laws, and constitute one government ; for other purposes, they are se'p'arate and independent sovereignties, with
laws and insfitutions. altogether different. 2 Peters, 590. And
wifh respect to their municipal regulations the several States
are to each other .foreign. 2 Wash. 298. Slavery has been
decided to be'locl, and to depend upon the local ]aw. Somerset's case, State Trials; 1 Loift, 1 ; 3 A. K. Marshall, 470- 472;
3 Bos. & Pull.-69; 2 Barn. & Cress. 448 ; 2 Martin, N. S. 403.
In the -case last cited,. Lunsford v. Coquillon, the Supreme
Court of Louisiana decided, that by removing a slave to Ohio
that sla've became instantly free by operation of law, and being
once free there, the slave was free everywhere. The case of
Rankin v. Lydia,-above cited, maintains substantially the same
*propositions.
The case of Elizabeth Thomas v. Generis, &c., 16 La. Rep.
presented these facts. The slave was sent from Kentucky to
Illinois, to be put under the charge of an eminent physician,
during, the absence of the owner. But this was done under
circumstances to warrant the inference that the owner consented to the slave residing there. The Supreme Court of
Louisiana on such facts say (p. 488),-1" If the plaintiff resided
in Illinois with the express or implied consent, and with the
knowledge and tacit authorization, of her former master, she
* was under no obligation to serve him there. The bond of
slavery once dissolved cannot be renewed by a subsequent reMoval of a slave so circumstanced into a slaveholding State."
5 Leigh, 615; 10 Leigh, 697; 9 Gill & Johns. 19.
In the case of Louis v, Cabarrus, 7 La. Rep. 172, the converse of the proposition was laid down in these words:-" The
residence of a slave in Ohio contrary to the' wll 'or without
the knowledge of his owner, does not deprive the owner of his,
property."
In Frank v. Powell, 11 La. Rep. 500, the court says, - "The
owner must be presumed to consent to emiancipation of a slave
by his temoval to Ohio."

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

87

Strader et al. v. Graham.

In Smith v. Smith, 13 La. Rep. 444, the court says the fact
of a slave being taken to a country where slavery or involun:tary servitude is not tolerated, operates on the condition of the
slave, and produces immediate emancipation.
In 4 Martin, 385, it said, -" The slave has no will, and cannot give consent to serve in a free State."
In 11 La. Rep. 501, it appeared that the plainatiff was
brought or left in Ohio, by the person claiming to be owner,
for the purpose of serving an innkeeper until $ 150 was received for his hire. It was there -decided that the hiring of a
slave for service in a free State operated on the freedom of the
slave.
In 9 'La. Rep. 474, the court decided, that where a slave was
taken into a free State, even temporarily, for any other purpose
than a mere passage through such country, such slave would
become free, and that freedom once impressed was indelible.
The case of Vinney v. Whitesides, 1 Missouji, 334-336,
formally settled the proposition that the United States had
power to purchase the Northwest Territory. It treats the Or.
dipance as a compact (" assented to the articles of compact"),
and as in full force (p. 335), and says (p. 336), -" The sovereign power of the United States has declared that neither
slavery nor involuntary servitude shall exist there, and this
court 'thinks that the person who takes his slave into said Territory, and by the length of his residence there indicates an intention of making that place his residence, and that of his
slave, does by such residence declare his slave to have become
a free man."
The case of Lagrange v. Choteau, 2 Missouri'Rep., decides
that any sort of residence, continued or permitted by the legal
owner, to defeat or evade the Ordinance, and thereby introduce
slavery de facto, would doubtless entitle a slave to freedom.
This case also says the Ordinance was intended as fundamental law.
The case of Ralph v. Duncan, 3 Missouri, 140, safs, --" The
object of the Ordinance of 1787 was to prohibit tlie introduction of slaves into the Territory, of which the present State of
Illinois constitutes a part, and the master who permits his slave
to go there to hire himself offends against that laW as much as
one who takes his slave along with himself to reside there, and
if we are at liberty to regard the moral effect of the act, it is
much more to permit the slave to go there to hire himself to
labor, than for the master to take him along with himself to
reside," &c. 3 Martin, N. S. 699.
In the case of Julia v. McKinney, 3 Missouri, 196, the court
said,- " Here was a hiring of a person bound to labor in Ken-

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et aL v. Graham.

tucky, Whilst in Kentucky, biought into Illinois (not to reside
there,'say if you will), and hired to labor for one or two days
by the owner. What difference can it make if the hiring had
been for one hundred days? We can see none, except in the
degree or quantity of time."
The court is referred also to Stewart v. Oakes, 5 Harr. &
Johns. 107, note; also to 3 Harr. & Johns. 491, 493; 3 Mon.
104; 5 Littell, 285; 1 Va. Rep. by Gilmer, 143; and many
other cbs3s might be cited from the decisions of the courts of
last resort in the States where slavery exists, to show that the
principle. contained in the cases cited are generally recognized.
In all these cases, it is believed the length of residence was
considered immaterial. The fact that the slave was taken or
permitted to reside, or hired, or sent to labor, where slavery was
forbidden, determined the right to frdedom.
The grafid object and settled policy of the Ordinance would
be evadi.fd and defeated, if citizens of Ohio or Indiana could
hire slaveg in Virginia and Kentucky to cultivate their farms.
If they could thus hire for a day, or a month, or a year, they
could do so for any number of years. It would be no answer
to say the master resided in a slave State, contracted in a slAve
State, and never intended 'to change the permanent residence
of his slave.
The proposition is maintained, that if a master voluntarily
hire his slave t a citizen of a non-slaveholding State, to perform service and labor in such non-slaveholding State, and if
le in fact send the slave there for that purpose, the slave becomnes free.
There is no principle of comity which requires any sover#ignty '1 surrender the interest of its citizens, or its established
laws, or its settled policy, in deference to or respect for any foreign law. If the non-slaveholding States, out of conity, would
allow citizens of slaveholding States t cultivate
their soil with
be converted into slaveholding
would ofsoon
they
heir slayes
ttes.
If the
citizens
non-slaveholding States could themselves introduce slaves under contracts of hire, they would violate the settled policy of their State by bringing slave labor in
competition with their poor. 16 Pet. 539; 2 McLean, 596.
When Connecticut passed her law to provide for the. eradication of slavery, she began it with a preamble which declared
'in concise terms the reason and policy of the law to be, "that
slavery is inconvenient and injurious to the poor."
J The defendant -in error, by express written authority, gave
,Williams authority to take the slaves to Indiana and to Ohio,
to serve him, Williams, in those States. This was done upon
a consideration which the master deemed adequate; Under

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

89

Strader et al. v. Graham.

that express written authority of the master, they were so
taken, again and again, to those -States, to perform service for
pay. Now this either did or did not make them free. If it
did make them free, it was either by virtue of the Ordinancp,
or of the Constitution or laws of the United States admitting
those States under that Ordinance'with constitutions prohibiting slavery. The defence of Strader, &c., turned on the giving,
or refusing to give, validity to the Ordinance or acts of Congress. A State court has .decided against that defence, - and
this is claimed to be one of the very cases in which jurisdiction
is given to this court under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act. Pollard v. Kibbe, 14 Pet. 417.

1Xtr. Crittenden, contra. Much argument has been urged to
show, that, in regard to the operation of the Ordinance of 1787
and the laws of Ohio and Indiana upon the condition of slaves
brought into those States with the consent of their masters,
there is no difference between a temporary and a permanent residence. But in this case there was no residence at all. It was
only a transient visit to Madison for part of one night, and
for a fleeting and temporary purpose. Williams's residence
was in Louisville. There was no change of domicile, nor was
there the most remote intention of such change. The slaves
accompanied Williams in his short visit, Zind voluntarily returned with him to Kentucky; and it was not till some four
years after their return to their master that they made their escape. A distinction is attempted between a temporary residence and a visit in transitu. There is no foundation for such
a distinction. The only legal distinction is that of domicile
and transient residence, or stoppage in itinere.
But the important fact in this case is the voluntary return of
the slave to his master. The question, then, is, What is the condition of the slave on his return, by the laws of Kentucky? not
what was his condition by the laws of Indiana or Ohio, when
within the limits of those States. This is a question purely of
local law, to be decided by the local courts. The laws of Kentucky could alone determine the status or condition of persons
residing within the State, and the couxts of the State were the
This court has, conseappropriate expounders of those laws
quently, no jurisdiction to reverse or review the decision of the
Court of Appeals in this case. It does not arise under any'act
of Congress. It does not arise even under the Ordinance of
1787. If the slaves had sued for their freedom, it might have
been brought under the Ordinance. It is simply a case arising
under the statute law of Kentucky. Owens v. Norwood's Lessee, 5 Cranch, 344.

90

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et al. v. Graham.

*What have the Supreme Court of Kentucky decided? They
have decided that there was no residence, that there was a ternporary visit for a temporary purpose; and that such a visit, followed by a voluntary return to their master, gave no title to
freedom under the Ordinance of 1787. The Ordinance of 1787
declares that there shall be no involuntary servitude northwest of the Ohio. It says nothing of the effect of a mere
temporary sojourn of a slave in that Territory with the consent
of. his master, and a voluntary return to the State from which
lie came, The Ordinanee was founded in wise counsels, for
large purposes, and has been faithfully kept. It was not to
catch upa wandering fiddler, as in this case, upon a mere visit
for playing at a ball, that the Ordinance of 1787 was passed.
It degrades the oharacter of that Ordinance to suppose so. It
would give to it the effect of reating a border warfare, instead
of cultivai ng the courtesies and amenities of life.
If,however, that decree be examinable in this court, it will
be further insisted,
lot That under the circumstances of this case, the transient
excursion of the slaves in question to Cincinnati, for a temporary purpose, with intention to return, and within their actual
obligations to the service of their master, conferred no right to
freedom after such voluntary return, either under the Ordinance,
or under thb 'Constitution or laws of the United States.
Judge Story, in hi Conflict of Laws, § 96, on the question
.ofa voluntary return to slavery, considers the law to.be that
the slave acquires no right to freedom. In the case of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts v. Ayes, 18 Pick. 193, the
court in Massachusetts decide that a slave who has been in a
free State, but returns voluntarily to the State from which he
came, returns to the condition in which he was when he left.
He waives his right to freedom by his voluntary return. And
so did Sir William Scott decide, in 2 Haggard's Admiralty Reports, 94. And the court of 'Kentucky decide the same thing.
2d. That the plain 'ffs in error have no right thus collaterally to make any defent or question as to the claims of those
slaves to their freedom, claims which they themselves had apparently abandoned, and which they certainly never asserted.
Their right, if any, was personal, and cannot be revived and
brought into litigation, as attempted in this case by the plaintiffs in error.
I suppose it is very clear that the only question here is,
whether this decision conflicts -withthe Ordinance of 1787. It
may conflict with the law of Ohio, or Indiana, or the constitution of Ohio or Indiana; but that confers no jurisdiction on
this court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

91

Strader et aL v. Graham.

If the doctrine maintained on the other side De established,
the Ohio will be made like the fabled Styx, the river of death,
which, if once crossed, can never be recrossed. It will destroy
that amenity of intercourse, that interchange of social couirtesies, -which now exist, arid which do so much to preserve those
kindly and fraternal feelings upon which the success of our institutions so much depends. He trusted in the wisdom of the
court to arrive at such a decision as should be acquiesced in
by alL
Xr. Jones, in reply and conclusion.
The defence is, that these slaves having once had the indelible character of freedom stamped on them by a residence, sojourn, or commorancy within the Territory over which the
Ordinalice of 1787 extended, it could never afterwards be obliterated.
The penalty or forfeiture is for transporting slaves, and it ip
a necessary prerequisite that the status of slavery should be
established.
Suppose a slave emancipated, and I am indicted for dealing
with him, a slave, can I not set up a defence that the condition
of slavery did not exist under the Ordinance of 1787? And did
not the court of Kentucky in this case decide upon the effect
of the Ordinance of 1787 ?
It is agreed that this case arises under the laws of Kentucky.
But Kentucky could not pass laws inconsistent with the Ordinance. They cannot make a slave of one whom the Ordinance
makes free. 'All that Kentucky has done has been to apply
the penalty to the asportation of slaves. The question, then, is,
Bond or free?
It is decided as to the condition of slavery in those States
where it is not recognized, that there is no obligation under
common law, in the national law, or the comity of nations, to
recognize it where the slave is brought into' such State voluntarily. Then, as to the permanence of the removal, all the authorities concur, that no matter how temporary the purpose, if
the slave be brought or sent by the master for ever so short a
time, once there, eo instanti he becomes free.
Some State
courts have distinguished between slaves temporarily employed
and slaves in transitu.
This is illustrated by the acts of coterminous slave States.
Maryland and Virginia were obliged to pass laws to prevent
freedom from resulting from a temporary residence.
What is the difference between temporary and permaneat
residence ? Animus morandi and animus revertendi.
The only true distinction is between domicile, on the one

-SUPREME

COURT.

Strader et al. v. Graham.

hand, and mere residence, whether for a short or for a long time,
on the other. Various words have been applied to express the
idea, such as sojourning, commorancy, residence, &c. Many
persons pass their whole lives in a strange land. The Israelites
sojourned in Egypt for four hundred years; yet it was not
their home. It is true that in the case in 2 Martin, the slave
was removed into Indiana for a permanent residence, and the
court seem to indicate a distinction between a permanent and
temporary residence; but it was only incidentally laid down,
and has been overruled in Louisiana since. In the case in
18 Pickering, the slave was a mere attendant in ilinere,and the
decision was, that even that conferred freedom. In fact, the
States of Kentucky, Louisiana, and Missouri concur (with the
exception of persons in itinere) with the courts of the Northern
States as to the effect of residence. And the length of residence was immaterial. There are -two cases in Louisiana
where slaves were taken to France and brought back again,
which entirely abolish all distinction between one sort of residence and another.
The case of the slave Grace has been referred to, where the
right to freedom, which might have been asserted, was considered as waived by a retufn to the place of slavery. But does
that construction of law as existing in England apply here?
It is a monstrosity in morals and in law, that a man who has
been made free by the operation of law can make himself a
slave. On the coming of the slave into the free State, by the
mere force of the prohibition, his shackles fall from him. Are
they ever to be restored? By what law? If he be free in
Ohio and Indiana, how shall he be a slave elsewhere? What
power of man is to redintegrate that condition ? Nor is there
any rea distinction as to right of dominion and right of property. If the slave be made free, there can be no right of property in his service. Where is the law which makes a distinction
-between the right of property quoad the State, and an absolute
divestiture of all right of property by operating on the status
of slavery? It cannot be said that the slave is free, and yet
that my right of property remains intact.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by writ of error directed to the
Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky.
The facts in the case, so far as they are material to the decision of this court, are briefly as follows. The defendant in
error is a citizen of the State of Kentucky, and three negro
men whom he claimed and held as his slaves were received on
board the steamboat Pike, at Louisville, without his knowledge

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

93

Strader et al. v Graham..

or consent, and transported to Cincinnati; and from that p1~ee
escaped to Canada, and were finally lost to. him.
The proceedings before us were instituted under a statute
of Kentucky, in the Louisville Chancery Court, against the
plaintiffs in error, to recover the value of the -slaves which had
thus escaped, and, in default of payment by them, to charge the
boat itself with the damages sustained. Strader and Gorman
were the owners of the boat, and Armstrong the master.
The plaintiffs in error, among other defences, insisted that
the negroes claimed as slaves were free ;, averring that, some
time before they were taken on board the steamboat, they had
been sent, by the permission of the defendant in error, to the
State of Ohio, to perform service as slaves; and that, in consequence thereof, they had acquired their freedom, and were
free when received on board the boat.
It appears by the evidence, that these men were musicians,
and had gone to' Ohio, on one or more occasions, to perform at
public entertainments; that they had been taken there for thiA
purpose, with the permission of the defendant in error,, by a
man by the name of Williams, under whose 6are and direction
he had for a time placed them; that they had always returned
to Kentucky as soon as this brief service was over; and for the
two years preceding their escape, they had not left the State of
Kentucky, and had remained there in the service of the defendant in error, as their lawful owner.
The Louisville Chancery Court finally 'decided, that the negroes in question were his slaves; and that he was entitled to
recover $ 3,000 for his damages. And if that sum was not paid
by a certain day specified in the decree, it directed that the
steamboat should be sold for the purpose of raising it, together
with the costs of suit. This decree was afterwards affirmed in
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and the case is brought
here by writ of error upon that judgment.
Much of the argument on the part of the plaintiffs in error
has been offered for the purpose- of showing that the judgment
of the State court was erroneous in deciding that these negroes
were slaves. And it is insisted that'their previous employment in Ohio had made them free when they returned to Kentucky.
But this question is not before us. Every State has an undoubted right to determine the status, or domestic and social
condition, of the persons domiciled within its territory; except
in so far as the powers of the States in this respect are restrained, or duties and obligations imposed upon them, by the
Constitution of the United States. There is nothing in the
Constitution of the United States that can in any degree con-

94

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et al. v. Graham.

trol the law of Kentucky upon this subject. Arid the condition
of the negroes, therefore, as -to freedom or slavery, after their
return, depended altogether upon the laws of that State, and
could not be influenced by the laws of Ohio. It was exclusively in the power of Kentucky to determine for itself whether
their employment in another State should or should not make
them free on their return. The Court of Appeals have determined, that by the laws of the State they continued to be
slaves, "And-their judgment upon this point is, upon this writ
of error, -conclusive upon this court, and we have no jurisdiction over it.
But it seems to be supposed in the argument, that the law of
Ohio upon this subject has some peculiar force by virtue of the
Ordinance of 1787, for the government of the Northwestern
Territory, Ohio being one of the States-carved out of it.
One of the articles of this Ordinance provides, that "there
shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in the said
Territory, otherwise than in punishment for crimes whereof the
party shall have been duly convicted: Provided always, that
any person escaping into the same, from whom labor or service is lawfully claimed in any one of the original States, such
fugitive may be lawfully reclaimed and conveyed to the person
claiving his or her labor or'service as aforesaid." And this
article is one of the' six which the Ordinance declares shall be
a compact between the original States and the ,people and
States in the said Territory, and for ever remain unalterable
upless
common consent.. The byargument assumes that the six articles which that Ordi-,
nance declares to be perpetual are still in force in the States
since formed within the Territory, and admitted into the Union.
If this proposition could be maintained, it would not alter
the question, For the regulations of Congress, under the old.
Confederation or the present Constitution,,for the government
of a particular territory, could have no force beyond its limits.
It certainly could-not restrict the power of the States within
their respective territories; nor in any manner interfere with
their laws and institutions ; nor give this court any control over
them. The Ordinance in question, if still in force, could have
no more operation than the laws of Ohio in the State of Kentucky, and could not influence the decision upon the rights of
the master or the slaves in that State, nor give this court ju.
risdiction upon the subject,
But it has been settled by judicial decision in this court, that
this Ordinance is not in force.
The case of Permoli v. The First Municipality, 3 How. 589,
depended upon the same principles with the case befoie us. It

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

95

Strader et aL v. Graham.

is true that the question in that case arose in Louisiana. But
the act of Congress of April 7, 1798, chap. 28 (1 Stat. at Large,
549), extended the Ordinance of 1787 to the then Territory of
Mississippi, with the exception of the antislavery clause; and
declared that the people of that Territory should be entitled to
and enjoy all the rights, privileges, and advantages granted to
-bhe people of the Territory Northwest of the Ohio. And by
the act of March 2, 1805, chap. 23 (2 Stat. at Large, 322), it
was enacted that the inhabitants of the then Territory of Orleans should be entitled to and enjoy all the rights, privileges,
and advantages secured by the Ordinance of 1787, and at that
time enjoyed by the people of the Mississippi Territory. .
In the case above mentioned, Permoli claimed the protection
of the clause in one of the six articles'which provides for the
freedom of religion, alleging that it had been violated by the
First Municipality. And he brought the question before this
court, upon the ground that it had jurisdiction under the Ordinance. But the court held that the Ordinance ceased to be in.
force when Louisiana became a State, and dismissed the case
for want of jurisdiction. This opiniou is, indeed, confined to
the Territory in which the case arose. But it is evident that
the Ordinance cannot be in force in the States formed in the
Northwestern Territory, and at the same time not in force inthe States formed in the Southwestern Territory, to which it
was extended by the present government. For the ordinances
and pledges of the Congress of the old Confederation cannot be
more enduring and obligatory than those of the new government; nor can there be any reason for giving a different interpretation to the same words used in similar instruments,
because the one is by the old Confederation and the other by
the present gbvernment. And when it is decided that this Ordinance is not in force in Louisiana, it follows that it cannot
be in force in Ohio.
But the whole question upon the Ordinance of 1787, and
the acts of Congress -extending it to other territory afterwards
acquired, was carefully considered in Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How.
212. The subject is fully examined in the opinion pronounced
in that case, with which we concur; and it is sufficient now to
refer to the reasoning and principles by which that judgment is
maintained, without entering again upon a full examination of
the question.
Indeed, it is impossible to look at the six articles which are
supposed, in the argument, to be still in force, without seeing
at once that many of the provisions contained in them are in-consistent with the presept Constitution. And if they could be
regarded as yet in operation in the States formed within the

96

SUPREME

COURT.

Strader et al. v. Graham.

limits of the Northwestern Territory, it would place them in an
inferior condition as compared with the other States, and subject their domestic institutions and municipal regulations to the
constant supervision and control of this court The Constitution was, in the language of the Ordinance, "adopted by common consent,"°and the people of the Territories must necessarily be regarded as parties to it, and bound by it, and entitled to
its benefits, as well as the people of the then existing States.
It became the supreme law throughout the United States.
And so far as any obligations of good faith had been previously incurred by the Ordinance, they were faithfully carried into
execution by the power and authority of the new government.
In fact, when the Constitution was adopted, the settlement
of that vast territory was hardly begun; and the people who
*filled it, and formed the great and populous States that now
cover it, became inhabitants of the territory after the Constitution was adopted; and migrated upon the faith that its protection and benefits would be extended to them, and that they
would in due time, according to its provisions and spirit, be
admitted into the Union upon an equal footing with the old
States. For the new government secured to them all the public rights of na-vigation and commerce which the Ordinance did
or could provide for; and moreover extended to them when
they should become States much greater power over their
municipal regulations and domestic concerns than the Confederation had agreed to concede. The six articles, said to be
perpetual as .a compact, are, not made a part of the new Constitution. They certainly are not superior and paramount to
the Constitution, and cannot confer power and jurisdiction
upon this court. The whole judicial authority of-the courts of
the United States is derived from the Constitution itself, and
the laws made under it.
It is undoubtedly true, that most of the material provisions
and principles of these six articles, not inconsistent with the
Constitution of-the United States, have been the established
law within this territory ever since the Ordinance was passed;
and hence the Ordinance. itself is sometimes spoken of as still
in force. Bit these provisions owed their legal validity and
force, after the Constitution was adopted and while the territorial government continued, to the act of Congress of August
7, 1789, which adopted and continued the Ordinance of 1787,
and carried its provisions into execution, with some modifications, which were necessary to adapt its form of government to
the new Constitution. And in the States since formed in the
territory, thesd provisions, so far as they have been preserved,
owe their validity and . authority to the Constitution of the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

97

Strader et,al, v. Graham.
United States, and the constitutions and laws of the respective
States, and not to the authority of the Ordinance of the old
Confederation. As we have already said, it ceased to be in
force upon the adoption of the ConstitutiOn, and cannot now
be the source of jurisdiction of any description in this court.
In every view of the subject, therefore, this court has no jurisdiction of the case, and the writ of error must on that ground
be dismissed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I agree that there is no jurisdiction in this case, and that it
must be dismissed.
The plaintiffs obtained this writ of error to reverse a judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, which affirmed the
judgment of the inferior court, in which Graham obtained a
verdict and judgment against the defendants below for three
thousand dollars, on the ground that three of the servants of
the plaintiff had been conveyed from Louisville, Kentucky, to
Cincinnati, in the steamboat of defendants, by which means
they escaped, and the plaintiff lost their services.
The defendants set up in their defence the Ordinance of
1787, for the government of the Northwestern Territory, vhich
prohibited slavery in the sixth article of the compact, and which
was declared "ti be unalterable unless by common consent."
The defendants alleged that, with the permission of Graham,
the slaves had been permitted to visit Ohio and .Indiana as
musicians, by which they were entitled to their freedom; although they had returned voluntarily to their master, in Kentucky. And the right to their freedom was asserted under the
Ordinance, which, it is insisted, brings the case within the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and gives jurisdiction to this court.
The provision of the Ordinance in regard to slavery was incorporated into the constitution of Ohio, which received the
sanction of Congress when the State was admitted into the
Union. The constitution of the State, having thus received
the consent of the original parties to the compact, must be
considered, in regard to the prohibition of slavery, as substituted for the Ordinance, and cofisequently all questions of freedom must arise under the constitution, and not under the Ordinance.
This, in my judgment, decides the question of jurisdiction,
which is the only question before us. And any thing that is
said in the opinion of the court, in relation to the Ordinance,
beyond Ahis, is not in the case, and is, consequently, extrajudicial.
9
VOL. X.

98

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et al. v. Graham.

Mr. Justice CATRON.
The Ordinance of 1787 provides that the six articles contained in it shall be unalterable, and remain a compact between the original States and the people of the Northwestern
Territory, "unless altered by common consent."
1. The sixth article declares, that slavery shall be prohibited.
2. And that absconding slaves there found shall be surrendered
to their owners.
The constitution of Ohio incorporates the first part of the
sixth article, but leaves out the second part. The State constitution having received the sanction'of Congress, the alteration was made by common consent, as this was the mode of
-conseht contemplated by the compact; that is to say, by the
States in Congress assembled, whether under the Confederation
or present Constitution. This being an "engagement entered
into" before the adoption of the Constitution, was equally binding on the on- Congress as the other, according to the sixth
article of the new Constitution; and the new Congress, equally
with the former one, had power to consent to alterations. The
power to alter necessarily involves the power to annul, or to
suspend; and when the State constitution of Ohio was assented to by Congress, the article stood suspended, or abolished, as an engagement among the States, and can now only
be recognized as part of the organic State law. And as this
law is drawn in question -here, no jurisdiction exists to examine the State decision.
But in regard to parts of the other five articles, I am unwilling to express any opinion, as no part of either is in any degree involved in this controversy.
The fourth article secured the free navigation of the waters
leading into the rivers Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the
carrying-places between them, as common highways; and exempted them -from tax, impost, or duty. The mouths of the
two great rivers -were in possession of foreign powers, and
closed to our commerce, at the date of the Ordinance and
Constitution; and therefore it was more necessary that the tributaries should be always open, and the carrying-places free, so
that the Ohio -and St. Lawrence- could be reached from the
great lakes, and back and forth either way. Some of these
tributary rivers and the carrying-places, it was known, would
fall into a-single new State, as contemplated by the Ordinance. This is true of every carrying-place, and is equally true
as respects most of the rivers leading to the carrying-places:
and as Congress had only power given by the new Constitution "to regulate commerce among the States," it is a question now unsettled, Whether such inland rivers and carrying-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

99

Wilson v. Sandford -et al.

places could be regulated, where the navigation and carryingplaces began and ended in a single State.
For thirty years, the State courts within the territory ceded
by Virginia have held this part of the fourth article to be in
force, and binding on them respectively; and I feel unwilling
to disturb thi wholesome course of decision, which is so conservative to the. rights of others, in a case where the fourth article is in no wise involved, and when our opinion might be
disregarded by the State courts as obiter, and a dictum uncalled
for. When the question arises here on the fourth article, it is
desired by me, that no such embarrassment should be imposed
on this court as necessarily must be by now passing judgment
on the force of the fourth article; and pronouncing that it stand
superseded and annulled.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Court of Appeals for the State of Kentucky, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

SATas G. WnLsox,

APPELLANT, V. GEORGE A. SANDFORD AND ROBERT

G.

MUISGROVE.

The seventeenth section of the act of 1836 gives the right of appeal to this court,
when the sum in dispute is below the value of two thousand dollars, "in all actions,
suits, controversies on cases arising under any law of the United States, granting

or confirming to inventors the exclusive right to their inventions or discoveries,"
provided the court below shall deem it reasonable to allow the appeal.
But a bill filed on the equity side of the Circuit Court to set-aside an assignment
upon the ground that the assignee had not complied with the terms of the contrac
is not one of these enumerated cases; and the value in dispute being less than two

thousand dollars, this court has no jurisdiction over the case.

Tmis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana.
The appellant" bad filed his bill in the court below, setting
forth a patent to William Woodworth, dated December 27th,
1828, for a planing machine; also an extension, in.1842, of
said patent for seven years, granted to William W. Woodworth,
administrator of the patentee; an assignment of all right and
interest in said extended patent throughout the United States
(except Vermont) to complainant, Wilson; and a license from
Wilson to the defendants to use one machine upon payment

