DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

627

Robinson et aL v.'Minor et al.

complete grant, wanrant, order of survey, deed of conveyance,
or other written evidence, which shall not be so recorded, shall
ever be considered or admitted as evidence in any court of the
United States, against -any grant derived from the United
States. But for the act of Congress of the 6th of February,
1835, entitled "An Act for the final adjustment of claims to
lands in the State of Louisiana," the fourth section of the
act of 1805 would have operated as a complete bar to the
claim of the appellees from the 1st day of March, 1806. The
act of 1835 removes that bar so far as to permit, within the
space of two years from its date, the prosecution of claims similar to that of the appellees, but this act accomplishes nothing
beyond this permission. It imparts no merit or strength to any
claim which such claim did n6t previously possess. Upon a
view of this case, then, we think that the decision of the District Court should be reversed, and the petition of the appellees
dismissed, and that decree is accordingly hereby reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Cburt of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and wa argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the of iion of this court, that the title of
the petitioners is null and void. 'Whereupoh, it is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of
the said District Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to dismiss
the petition of the claimants in this cause.

MERRITT -M. ROBINSON AND MARGUERITE 'HIs WIFE, AURORE GAYoso, FERNANDO GAYoso, AND FELICITE GAYoso, APPELLANTS, V.
WDI. J. MINOR, JADInS C. WILKINS, AND HENRY CHOTARD, EXECUTORS OF THE LAST WILL AND TESTA-IENT OF KATHARINE MINOR,
DECEASED, FRANCES CHOTARD, KATHARINE L. WILKINS, AND WIM.

J.MINOR.
By the treaty of 1795, between the United States and Spain, Spain admitted that
she had no title
to land north of the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and her
previous grants of land so situated were of course void. The country, thus be1onging to Georgia, was ceded to the United States in 1802, with a reservation
that all persons who were actual settlers on the 27th of October, 1795, should have
their grants confirmed. (See also 3 Howard, 750.)
On the 3d of MAarch, 1803, Congress passed an act (2 Stat. at Large, 229) establish-

628

SUPREME COURT.
Robinson et al. v. Minor et al.

ing a board of commissioners to examine these grants, whose certificate in favor
of the claimant should amount to a relinquishment, for ever, on the part of the
United States.'
Without such confirmation by the United States, a grant of land situated on the
north side of the thirty-first degree of latitude, issued by the Governor-General of
Louisiana in 1794, would have been void. But-it was confirmed by the board of
commissioners, and is therefore valid.
The original grantee indorsed upon the grant that he had conveyed it to a woman,
whom he afterwards married, and referred to another instrument of conveyance;
and in all subsequent transfers there was a reference to that same instrument,
reciting its date, and that it accompanied the deeds executed. The confirmation
of the commissioners followed and adopted this chain of title.
That instrument of conveyance being lost, it may be presumed, under the circumstances, that the original grantee intended to convey to his wife a greater estate
than the law would have endowed her with upon the marriage.
Even supposing that the confirmation of the commissioners was not conclusive, yet
the facts of the case show a superior equity in the title of the wife over that of the
child of the original grantee; viz. the motive which led to the conveyance; the fact
that the widow sold the property for its full value, saw the premises occupied by
persons claiming them in fee for thirty years, and never informed her son that he
had a right to the property after her decease.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the- United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi, sitting as a
court of equity.
The circumstances of the case were these.
On the 1st of Juiy, 1794, Gayoso de Lemos presented the
following petition to the Governor-General of Louisiana: "To the Governor-General: - Col. Manuel Gayoso de Lemos, governor of the town and district of Natchez) to your
honor sayeth, that he owns at half a league from this town a
tract of land which he has bought to build thereupon a house,
and to raise the commodities that will do to his family; but
being also in want of pasture for his horses and other quadrupeds, or animals, petitioner therefore begs of your honor to give
order to the deputy-surveyor of this district to exten the boundaries of the said land to increase it to contain one thousand
arpents; and petitioner will ever pray.
(Signed,)
MANUEL GAYoso DE LEios.
"NAatchez, Tuly 1st, 1794- say 1794-Y"
On.the 8th of August following the governor issued the following order to Carlos Trudeau, the surveyor: "New Orleans, 8th Tuly, 1794.
"Granted. - The surveyor having to designate the limits in
the notes of survey, which shall be exhibited'to me, so that a
title in a due form may be extended to the party.
(Signed,)
EL BARON DE CARONDELET."
A plat was accordingly made out, and returned on the 3d

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Robinson et a.

629

v. Minor et al.

of Sept-mber, upon which a grant was issued. No translation of the grant being in the record, the original is not inserted.
On the 12th of February, 1795, the following indorsement
was made upon the grant.
"Recorded.
Natchez, 12th day of February, 1795. This
grant is transferred to Mrs. Mafrgaretta Watts by a -written
instrument made on this day.
"MANUEL GAYOSO DELms
Soon after this, either in the year 1795 or the early part of
1796, a private marriage took place between Gayoso and Margaret Watts. The reasons for its being private are thus explained in the deposition of Judge King, and in the letters of
Gayoso himself to Mr. Wikoff, the brother of Mrs. Watts.
Judge .KinsTestimony.
"To the first interrogatory he saith, he believes that Fernando Gayoso was born at Natchez, in the year 1796 or 1797,
and that he was the legitimate son of Don Manuel Gayoso
de Lemos and Margaret Watts; and witness vill proceed to
state, as he is requested in the interrogatory, some of the circumstances which induce .his belief. Some time in the year
1797 or 179S, Don Manuel Gayoso was made governor of the
Province of Louisiana, and arrived at New Orleans in one of
those, years to take chnrge of his government, He came to
the city in a barge, and ianded immediately opposite the store
of witness. Witness, being acquainted with the governor,
went on board the barge with others to welcome his arrival.
Mrs. Gayoso (Margaret Watts) was with the governor, and had
her son, the said Fernando Gayoso, then an infant, in her arms;
witness, to the best of his recollection, took the child from his
mother'sarms, and carried him on shore. Witness had known
the said Airs. Gayoso as Miss Margaret Watts, previous to
her first marriage. Having been the bearer of a leter of introduction from General Wilkinson in 1793 to Governor. Gayoso,
then governor of Natchez, witness was invited to' his house,
where he became acquainted with his family, then consisting
of Mrs. Watts, the mother-in-law, and Miss Margaret Watts,
his sister-in-law.
"In the year 1796 or 1797 it was currently reported and believed in the city of New Orleans, where witness then resided,
that Governor Gayoso had been privately married to Margaret
Watts at Natchez, which marriage could not, be publicly acknowledged, because it had been contracted without the permission of the king of Spain, or perhaps the dispensation of the
53 *

M

SUPREME COURT.
Robinson et al. v. Minor et al

Pope was needed, as the former wife of Governor Gayoso had
been a sister of Margaret Watts, or perhaps for both these reasons. Some time after the arrival of Governor Gayoso at New
Orleans, the Bishop of Havana happening to be there, and the
impediments to the marriage, whatever they were, having been
removed, the nuptial ceremony was publicly solemnized by the
bishop. Witness was not present at the marriage, but the fact
that it was celebrated was one of general notoriety, and universally believed in the city of New Orleans. *Witness was
frequently at the house of Governor Gayoso in the city of New
Orleans, where he saw Mrs. Gayoso (Margaret Watts) and
Fernando Gayoso, and on all occasions the former was treated
as the wife of the governor, and the latter as the child of their
marriage. Mrs. Gayoso, as witness always understood, was,
after the death of Governor Gayoso, treated by the Spanish
government as his widow, and as such allowed during her widowhood a pension equal to half the annual salary of her deceased husband. Fernando Gayoso lived with his mother during his minority, except when at school, and was always spoken
of by her as the issue of her marriage with Don Manuel Gayoso de Lemos. Margaret Watts left at her death several other
children, issue of a second marriage. At the settlement of her
succession, Fernando Gayoso was treated as one of her legitimate heirs, and as such received 'his portion. from all these
circumstances, witness, who knew the parties from the dates
already stated to those of their respective deaths, has always
believed that Fernando Gayoso was the legitimate son of Don
Manuel Gayoso de Lemos and Margaret Watts, his wife."
Letters of Gagoso to M r. Wikoff.
(These letters were produced and proved by Eliza Parrott,
the daughter of Mr. Wikoff.)
"N ew Orleans, 21st February,1796.
"My dear friend, - I suppose that by this you and my dear
sister are acquainted with my return from my long campaign,
by a letter'that our mamma wrote, as I arrived at the Natchez.
Now'this is to inform you that by the last packet I received
my promotion as brigadier-general for my former services, and
I still hope that the ensuing packet will bring me some other
good news, in recompense of the successful campaign that I
have finished. The last was a general promotion, in whichi the
Governor-General of this Province was made major-general,
and several others promoted.
"A neighbor of yours is just going away, so this is just to repeat to you my affection, to give my love to my dear sister,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

631

Robinson et al. v. Minor et al.

and to embrace your sweet children. Tell Manuel that he
must come to see his godfather. Indeed, my friend, we must
continue to make ourselves happy with an interview of our
families; our dear mamma will look upon such an event as the
greatest blessing she could experience; therefore you must begin to think how to bring it about.
"As I am assured that you have been puzzled by the news
mamma wrote of our connection being brought to an issue, I
must explain it; that very day our contract was signed before
many witnesses, and likewise an elegant country-house, with
one hundred acres bordering the town that I settle on my dear
Peggy, besides a very considerable allowance of my estate;
however, for the public, I must wait for the king's permission,
which is important to Peggy to secure her the military pension; but this will be had by the latter end of this year, and
perhaps by that time some considerable alteration in my public
station, which I hope may enable me to serve you.
"I repeat my affectionate love to my dear sister and children,
and I remain, sincerely, your truest friend and humble servant.
MIANUEL

GAYOSO DE, LE

os."1

"iNatchez, March 61t, 1797.
"My dear friend, - The American commissioner, Mr. Elicot, arrived here, and in a few days I shall set off with him to
have the first conference with the Baron near Clark's. Perhaps we may fix the first point immediately, but it will be
some time yet before we'proceed any further; therefore, I shaAl
return to this place. In this situation I am overpowered with
business.
" I wait with impatience ror -the necessary permission to
publish my marriage, which, however, is as binding now; but
the public sanction is necessary; I am in hopes that it will
arrive by the first packet. General Former is lately arrived
here with his daughter, married to Dr. Longstreet, whom I
suppose you know, though he is very young- (I mean Mr.
Longstreet). He thinks of paying you a visit; it seems that
he is related to you.
"M9[y kind, affectionate regard to my sister and children;
and I remain, sincerely, your most humble, obedient servant
MANUEL GAYoso I) LEmOS.'
and friend,
".New Orleans, 181h August, 1797.
"My dear friend, - Though as busy as you may suppose
at my arrival here, I do not wish to let this bpportunity pass
without renewing to you nd to my dear sister the sincere
assurances of my affection and attachment for you. I left our

632-

SUPREME COURT.
Robinson et al. v. Minor ot al.

friends well at Concord, with the addition of a fine boy that
four days hence will be one month old. At the beginning of
October I shall send my galiot for your sister, whom I did not
bring down on account of the excessive heat, and because she
would .find the house not conveniently furnished at our first
arrival. The retard of the packet from Europe was the cause
of the delay of the king's permission, as likewise of my promotion to the command of the province, signed by the king
the 20th of October last; however, they both arrived at the
same time, and restored trahquillity to our friends.
"When we are fixed at home, I shall insist on a visit from
my dear sister, &c., &c., one of these days. I shall prepare a
summons, which I shall send up to Concord, to be signed by
Lady Governante, as belonging to her department, to obtain
the desirable end. The new governor of Texas is a friend of
mine. I have already wrote to him an account of your negroes, but it would be necessary to have names and description, which,. if you send to me, I'll have circulated in all the
outposts, &c.
"If I can be of any service to you, I need not add here
complimentary expressions, I shall do it cheerfully. My love
to my dear sister and all the little cohort. I hope she has been
happily delivered, and that you all enjoy good health.
"I am, sincerely, your most humble servant and friend,
MANUEL GAYOSO DE Lntos."
On the 14th of July, 1797, Fernando was born, as appears
from the following certificate:"Manuel Gayoso de Lenros, brigadier of the royal armies,
military and civil governor of the town and district of Natchez,
&c., on this Friday, 14th July, 1797, at seven minutes to one
o'clock in the morning, my wife, Margaret Watts Gayoso, was
delivered of a robust and healthy child, to whom I determined
to give the narae of Fernando.
M NUEL GAYoso

).

Ltos."

On the 10th of December, 1797, the official ceremony of marriage wasperformed, as shown by the following certificate.
"No. 422.- On Sunday, 10th of December, of the year
1797, the most Christian Don Luis Tenalver y Cardenas, most
worthy prime bishop of this diocese of Louisiana and Floridas,
mwa

of

Do of the Council of his Majesty, married and im-

parted the nuptial benediction to Don Manuel
Gayoso de Iemos, brigadier of the royal armies
of his Catholic Majesty, civil and military governor of the
74-ue

ag-atw

-.Joo

.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

63

Robingon et al. v. Minor et a.

aforesaid province, a native of the kingdom of Galicia, and
Margaret Watts, his legitimate wife, native of Baton Rouge,
district of this same government. They performed confession
and communion, dnd to certify the above, I sign.

"FF.

ANTONIO

DE SEDELLA.

" The above is a true copy from the original, kept in the
archives of the above church for reference. New Orleans, 23d
August, 1844.
" ANT. DULUC,

&cretary of the Testry of the St. Louis Ckurch.;
In July, 1799, Gayoso died, and was buried in New Orleans,
being then civil and military governor of the Province of
Louisiana.
On the 10th of August, 1799, Margaret Watts Gayoso conveyed to Daniel Clark, Jr., for the consideration of $ 5,000, a
certain plantation or tract of land, "known by the name of Concordia, situated, lying, and being in the Mississippi Territory, in
the United States of America, about half a league northeast of
the fort of Natchez, containing one thousand acres, or arpents,
be the same more or less, as is fully expressed in the grant and
plan of said land, No. 632, accompanying this bill of sale"s; and
accompanied the sale with a general warranty.
On the 15th of Atigust, 1800, Daniel Clark conveyed the
property to William Lintot for ten thousand dollars. The deed
contained the following recital: " This indenture, made this 15th day of August, in the year
1800, between Daniel Clark, of the Mississippi Territory, of the
ope part, and William IAntot, of the Territory aforesaid, witnesseth: That whereas, on the 10th day of September, in the
y ,r 1794, there was granted by the Baron de Carondele4
Obvernor of Louisiana, unto Don Manuel Gayoso de Lemos,
a tract or parcel of land, called Concord, containing, by estimation, one thousand acres, with the appurtenances, situated
in the district aforesaid, as per plat and grant accompanying
this will more fully appear. And whereas, by an instrument
of writing, which also accompanies this, dated the 12th day of
February, in the year 1795, the said Don Manuel Gayoso de
Lemos did, for certain considerations therein recited, convey
the said land, with all the appurtenances, to Margaret Watts;
and whereas the said Margaret Watts, now the widow of the
said Don Manuel Gayoso de Lemos, by her deed dated the
10th day of August, 1799, which also accompanies this, did
convey the said land with the appurtenances to Daniel Clark,
then junior, for the valuable consideration of five thousand
dollars," &c.

634

SUPREME COURT.
Rebinson et al. v. Minor et aL

On the 15th of November, 1800, Lintot conveyed to Stephen
Minor, the ancestor of the appellees.
In 1802, a contract was made between the United States and
the State of Georgia, by which Georgia, ceded to the United
States all the territory in which the granted land N;as. But it
was stipulated in the deed of cession, that "all persons who,
on the 27th of October, 1795, were actual settlers within the
territory thus ceded, should be confirmed in all the grahits
legally aid fully executed prior to that day, by the former
British government or the.government of Spain." This agreement between the United States and Georgia. -ill be found in
1 Land Laws, 588.
On the 3d of March, 1803, Congress passed an act (2 Stat. at
Large, 229), entitled" An Act for regulating the grants of land
and providing for the disposal of lands of the United States,
south of the State of Tennessee?' This act established a board,
before which all claims were to be brought, and the sixth section provided that, where it shall appear to the board that ihe
claimant is entitled to a tract of land under the articles of
agreement and cession with Georgia aforesaid, in virtue of a
British "or Spanish grant legally and fully executed, they shall
give a certificate thereof, describing the tract of land and the
grant, and stating that the claimant is confirmed in his title
thereto by virtue of the said articles; which certificate, being
recorded by the register of the land-office, shall amount to a
relinquishment for ever on the part of the United States."
In 1804, the following proceedings took place before the
board: 4Monday, the 10th of September, 1804, the board met.
"4'No. 1220. Stephen Minor claims one thousand arpents,
Spanish patent to Manuel. Gayoso, dated the 12th of September, 1794, who assigned and- transferred the same to Margaret
Watts, afterwards Margaret Watts Gayoso, the 12th of February, 1795, who conveyed the same to Daniel -Clark by deed
dated the 10th of August, 1799, who conveyed the same to
William Lintot, the 15th of AUgust, 1800, who conveyed the
same to the present claimant on the 15th .of September, 1800;
the patent to Gayoso, assignment to Margaret Watts, deed
from Margaret to Clark, deed from Clark to Lintot, and deed
from Lintot to Stephen Minor, were produced in evidence,
iled with the ;egister
"Witness William Barland on oath says, that Margaret
Watts Gayoso was an actual settler in the'Mississippi Territory
on the 27th of October, 1795."
And on the 18th of September, 1805, the following certificate
was issued :-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

635

Robinson et aL v. Minor et al.

" A No. 610.

Mississippi Territory.

Register 1220.

"Board of Commissioners west of Pearl River, established
by a law of Congress regulating the grants of land, and pro,viding for the disposal of lands of the United States south of
the State of Tennessee.
" Stephen Minor claims a tract of seven hundred and fiftysix arpents of land, situated in Adams County, near the city of
Natchez, by virtue of a grant under the authority of the Spanish government, to Manuel Gayoso de Lemos, for one thousand arpents, bearing. date the *12th day of September, in the
year 1794, having such shape, form, and marks, both natural
and artificial, as are represented in the plat annexed to said
grant, and legally conveyed to the claimant.
" We do certify, that the said Stephen Minor is confirmed in
his title thereto by virtue of the articles of agreement and cession between the United States and Georgia.
" Given under our hands, at the town of Washington, in the
county of Adams, this 18th day of September, in the year 1805,
and in the thirtieth year of the independence of the United
States.
"RoBERT WILLIAMS,
THoMAs

H. WLIAMS,
Commissioners."

It was admitted that those who claimed under Mtinor had
been in possession since the issuance of the certificate of confirmation.
In December, 1805, Margaret Watts Gayoso married Captain Stelle of the United States army.
Stelle died in 1819, and Margaret in 1829.
On the 9th of May, 1832, Fernando Gayoso de Lemos, a
citizen of Louisiana, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern Districtof Mississippi, against
Job Routh, Katharine Minor, John Minor, executor of Stephen
Minor, and John William Minor, of Mississippi.
The bill charges that the complainant is the lawful son and
only heir of Manuel Gayoso de Lemos, deceased, and that the
said Manuel was, on the 27th of October, 1795, an actual settler
within the Territory, now the State, of Mississippi, ceded by
Georgia to the" United States on the 14th of April, 1802; that
he then held a grant legally and fully executed prior to. the
27th of October, 1795, by the government of Spain, for 1,000
arpents of land, now situated in Adams County, Mississippi;
that he or his legal representatives were entitled to a bonfirmation of that grant by the articles of cession between the United
States and Georgia, and that the said Manuel's wife. Margare4

636

SUPREME COURT.
Robinson et al. v. Minor at aL

the complainant's mother, survived her husband, married James
Sfelle in 1804 or 1805, and died in 1829, and that Stelle died
in 1819.
The bill further states, that Stephen Minor, deceased, late
of Adams County, Mississippi, became possessed of the evidences of the said Manuel's said title, and after the death of
the' said Manuel, and during the infancy of the complainant,
and while he resided in Louisiana, procured from the board of
commissioners, west of Pearl River, the issual to him, in his
own name, of a certificate for 760 arpents of. said land, which
certificate was so unlawfully, falsely, and by imposition procured to the said Minor in fraud of the complainantfs rights,
and of right belonged and ought to have issued to the complainant as sole legal heir of the said Manuel; that Stephen
Minor died in 1815 or 1816, leaving his wife Katharine (one of
the defendants) devisee and trustee of all his estate, and making her and John Minor (also a defendant), his executors; and
that the executors on the 25th of January, 1929, conveyed the
land to the.defendant William J. Minor, the son of Katharine
Minor, who, on the .ame day, reconveyed to his nither, in
whose possession it row is, with the Spanish grant, as it was
before in her husband's possession, and that before these lastmentione r. nveyances the parties to them were aware of the
complainant's claim.
The bill further states, that Job Routh, then and now a citizen of Adams County, Mississippi, procured from the same
board of commissioners, in like manner as Minor, a certificate
for 244 arpents of said tract, under and by virtue of the said
evidence of the said title of the complainant's father, and has
long been in possession, and that said certificate belonged and
ought to have issued to the complainant.
The bill prays that Katharine Minor and Job Routh may be
decreed to convey tbr land to the complainant, and deliver
him the evidence of tie title to it, and to account for the rents
and profits, and for general relief.
After sundry proceedings of demurrers, which were overruled,
and bills of revivor, which it is not necessary to state, the defendants answered, in November, 1845.
The, answer sets out the title at law'of the appellees, beginning With the Spanish grant which lies at its foundation, tracing the assignment of that grant through its several successive
holders to Stephen Minor, showing Minor's application under
it to the board'of commissioners, west of Pearl River, appointed by virtue of" the act of Congress of 3d March, 1803, "for
regulating the grants of land, and providing fot the disposal of
lands of the United States south of the State of Tennessee,"

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

637

Robinson et al. v. Minor et al.

and the certificate of the board in his favor, and thence deducing their title regularly from him. It denies that the certificate
was issued to Stephen Minor unlawfully, falsely, or by imposition or fraud ; and avers that the Concord plantation has been
in the possession of them, and those under whom they claim,
since the 10th of August, 1799.
The answer does not admit Fernando Gayoso to be the
lawful son and heir of Manuel Gayoso, or that said Manuel
married Margaret Watts, or that she left children, or the date
of the death of the said Manuel or Margaret, or the age of the
said Fernando at the time of the death of the said Manuel, and
requires proof of the averment of the bill on these heads.
The answer further denies that the said Manuel Gayoso
was an actual settler, within the meaning of the act of Congress of 27th October, 1795, and that the appellees had any
notice of the claim of the appellants prior to the commencement of the suit; and, in addition, relies on the failure of the
appellants to file their bill within twenty years after the accrual
of the right in virtue of which they claim.
To this a general replication was filed, and a large mass of
evidence was taken.
In November, 1847, the cause was discontinued as to the
heirs of Job Routh, and abated as to Austin Williams, Archibald Williams, and Elias Ogden. It then came up for argument on the bill, answers, exhibits, and proof, when the Circuit
Court dismissed the bill, with costs.
The complainants appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Bullard, for the appellants, and Mr. X

Mason Campbell, for the appellees.
Mr. Bullard for the appellant, said, that, before stating the
points of law in the case, it was proper to say, that the judge
of the District of Mississippi gave as a reason for dismissing
the bill, although no written opinion was delivered, the decision
of this court in the case of the Lessee of Hickey and others v.
Stewart and others, 3 Howard, 761. That case appears to be
totally different from this. Starke claimed under an order of
survey which had never been presented to the board of cornmissioners for confirmation, under the act of 1803, and thiscourt held that the court of chancery, in taking cognizance of
Starke's claim, and establishing it by its own judgment and
decree, transcended its jurisdiction. The Gayoso title, as exhibited in this case, was complete and fully executed, as contemplated by the compact with Georgia in 1802, and was presented to the commissioners and confirmed; but confirmed not
VOL. X.
54

638.

SUPREME COURT.
Robinson et al. v. Minor et al.

in favor of the heir-at-law to whom the fee had descended, but
to Minor, under a pretended right of Margaret Watts Gayoso,
and we charge Minor as the trustee of the infant heir of Don
Manuel Gayoso de Lemos. There is no analogy between the
two cases.
He then stated the following points: The _first, and indeed the principal, question in the case is,
What degree of estate or interest did Clark, Lintot, and Minor
acquire under the conveyance of Mrs. Margaret Gayoso after
the death of her first husband? or, in other words, what was
the extent of her right to or in the land?
I am willing to testthis question either by the Spanish law.,
which was, at least to a certain extent, in force in the district
of Natchez, or by the common lawi supposed to prevail in
Georgia at that time. I say to a certain extent, because I
freely'admit that Spain, not being the sovereign de jure, had
no right to dispose of any of the public domain; but being,
uitil 1798, the sovereign de facto, having its governor, its tribunals of justice, and a body of laws or usages, in reference to
which all contracts and donations were made, and which regulated all the civil .transactions of the people and the mutual
relations and capacities of individuals, the Spanish law was
the living law of tie people; by it were regulated the trans.
ferts of all property once severed'frbm the domain, whether by
contract, or last will, or ab intestato; every question of marriage, of legitimacy, of donations, either mortis causd or inter
vivos, which arose during the sovereignty de facto of Spain,
ought to be tested by the Spanish law.
L What, then, was the Spanish. law applicable to this. case,
as it relates to the degree of estate acquired by Madame Gayoso? And here I assume, what is most favorable to the pretensions of the defendants, and rendered most probable by the
ev lence, that the land in question was settled on Miss Watts
as a donation in consideration of marriage, or a donatio propter
nluptias.
Upon that supposition she acquired the land in full property,
defeasible on her second marriage; in which event her, right
would be reduced at once to a usufruct during her natural
life on a life estate, and on her decease the land would descend to the heir of the donor or first husband exclusively.
I rely on the following authorities. 5 Partida, law 26, title 13;
Commentary of Gregorio Lopes; 15 Law of Toro; Gomez
ad Leges Tauri, (commentary,) nute 1st. Original Roman
Law: -Jnstinian,
Code, lib. 5, tit. 9, ยง 3; 2 Pothier's Trait6
du Mariage, Nos. 605, 613, 614; Fibrero, partr1, chap.'3.
IL But supposing that the common law, or the law of Geor-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

639

Robinson et aL v. Minor et aL

gia, is to govern, as was contended by the defendants, what interest or estate did Madame Gayoso acquire in the tract of
land according to the evidence in the record? It will be conceded that, according to both systems of; law, the only son is
the heir of the father; and leaving out of view the transfer to
M~argaret Watts, Fernando Gayoso would have inherited the
fee simple; and the title was perfect, according to the compact
with the State of Georgia. I contend, then, that, according to
the common law, Margaret Watts acquired at most a life estate, with remainder over in fee to the heir-at-law of Don Manuel Gayoso de Lemos, to wit, Fernando Gayoso, and that her
Vendee acquired no greater interest or estate.
The indorsement of Gayoso on the patent is not a deed conveying the fee simple. It conveyed no interest which would
go to her heirs; it contains no words or expressions to that
effect. Standing alone, it gave her a mere life estate, with remainder over to the heirs of Gayoso.
Nor is it cured by any other part of the evidence. On the
contrary, it being admitted that some conveyance from Gayoso to his future wife accompanied the several mesne conveyances, and it not being produced as the highest evidence, the
presumption is, it conveyed no higher interest than the indorsement itself The recital in those deeds points to higher evidence than this mere indorsement on the patent, and cannot
avail the party until he accounts for the original. Notes to
Phillips on Evidence, Part 2, 1236; 1 Greenleaf on Evid. 93.
III. The compact with Georgia confirms the title of Gayoso,
without the necessity of any act on the part of the United
States, except a mere certificate requiring no patent. See Act
of 1803, ยง 6 (2 Stat. at Large, 231).
This certificate adds nothing to the validity of the original
patent. See Hickie et al. v. Starke et al., 1 Peters, 94.
IV. Fernando Gayoso was the infant heir of Don Manuel
Gayoso at the time Minor, having possessed himself of the
patent, obtained the confirmation to himself, without showing
any cbnveyance from the original grantee, which cut off his
heir at law. He will then be held to be the trustee of the legal title of the infant heir, and condemned to convey the land,
and account for the rents and profits. See Gaines et ux. v.
Chew et al., 2 Howard, 650- 655; Dormer v. Fortescue, 3 Atk.
130; Roberdeau v. Rous, 1 Atk. 543; Hutton v. Simpson,
2 Vern. 724; Townsend v. Ash, 3 Atk. 336; Mundy v. Mundy, 2 Ves. jr. 122.
If it should be contended that Minor was an innocent pur-.
chaser without notice, and to be protected, then we invoke the
principle settled in the case of Biscoe v. the Earl of Banbury,

SUPREME COURT.
Robinson et al. v. Minor et al.

1 Cha. Cas. 287, and in Willis v. Bucher, 2 Binney, 466; to
wit, that it was crassa negligentia in him not to have examined into the extent of interest owned by Madame Gayoso, for
he had at least fair notice that there was some conveyance to
her, and it was in his power to ascertain the extent of her interests. Minor kept the patent safe, and exhibited it to the
commissioners; but he carefully kept back, and yet keeps
back, the deed or instrument of writing which accompanied
the patent, and by which Gayoso is pretended to have divested himself of title in favor of Margaret Watts.
V. Whether this be a proper case for chancery jurisdiction,
or whether the demurrer ought to have been sustained, is a
question which I could wish some other person, more conversant with the doctrines and practice of courts of equity than I
am, could present to the court. But it does appear to me, that,
although the plaintiff exhibits a legal title, on which he might
recover in an action of ejeetment, yet the proceedings of Minor
during the infancy of Fernando were such, in procuring a certificate in his own name, as to raise an implied trust; and that
the show of title thus acquired by him throws such a shade
over the title of the complainant, as on both grounds to au.
thorize his appeal to a court of equity, and that a court of law
could not give him full and complete remedy. I rely on the
principles settled in the case of Gaines et ux. Iv. Chew et al.,
2 Howard, cited above.
Mr, Campbell, for the appellees, relied upon the following
points.
1st That the appellants' claim, as the heirs of Manuel Gayoso through Fernando Gayoso, fails, because Fernando was
not born in wedlock. His birth took place on the 14th of July,
1797, in Natchez, and his parents were not married till the
10th of December following, in another territory.
2d. That even if Fernando be legitimate, his father, Manuel,
was an alien, and could not transmii aught to his son by
descent. Orr v. Hodgson, 4 Wheat. 460; Inglis v. The Trustees, &c., 3 Pet. 121.
3d. That even if legitimate, and capable to take by descent
from his 'father, he is barred by limitations. Statute of Mississippi, 1818; Peyton v. Stith, 5 Pet. 494.
4th. That even conceding all the foregoing points in favor
of the appellants, the certificate of confirmation concludes all
legal and equitable rights existing anterior to its date, and vests
an indefeasible title at law and in equity in the appellees, which
has since been recognized by Congress. Grand Gulf Bank v.
Bryan, 8 Smedes & Marsh. 234; Ross v. Barland, 1 Pet. 667;

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

641

Robinson et al. v. Minor et al.

Hickey v. Stewart, 3 How. 760; United States v. King, 3 How.
787; Act of 1803, ch. 27, ยง 5 (2 Stat. at Large, 229); 9 How.
170.
5th. That even if the certificate be not conclusive, and be
impeachable for fraud, there is no proof of any fraud in obtaining it, or otherwise.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case involves the title to a tract of one thousand arpents
of land adjoining the city of Natchez.
On the 10th of September, 1794, a grant was obtained for
this land from the Baron de Carondelet, Governor-General of
Louisiana, by'Manuel Gayoso de Lemos, who resided in
Natchez. He settled on Margaret Watts, his future wife, the
same tract of land, and indorsed upon the grant that it was
transferred to her. They were afterwards married, and, with the
view to secure to his wife a military pension, the permission
of the king of Spain was subsequently obtained. In 1797,
some time after the marriage, the nuptial benediction was pronounced by the Bishop of Havana, in New Orleans. In 1797
Madame Gayoso had a son, who was named Fernando. -In
1798 Gayoso succeeded the Baron de Carondelet as GovernorGeneral of Louisiana, and removed to New Orleans, where he
died in 1799, his wife and son surviving him.
On the 10th of August, 1799, for the consideration of five
thousand dollars, Madame Gayoso conveyed the premises)
with all the improvements thereon,- to Daniel Clark, junior.
And on the 15th of August, 1800, Daniel Clark, for the consideration of ten thousan d dollars, conveyed the same to Wil.
1iam Lintot. In this deed the original grant is referred to, and
the plat. And it states, "whereas by an instrument of writing.which accompanies this, dated the 12th of February, 1795,
the said Don Manuel Gayoso de Lemos did, for certain considerations therein recited, convey the said land, with all the
appurtenances, to Margaret Watts; and whereas the said
Margaret Watts, now the widow of the said Don Manuel
Gayoso de Lemos, by her deed dated the 10th of August,
1799, which accompanies this, did convey the said land to
Daniel Clark," &c; On the 15th of November, 1800, William'
Lintot, for the consideration of the sum of ten thou and dollars, conveyed the same land, with tke same recitals, to Stephen
Minor., the ancestor of the defendants.
In 1805, this title having been presented to the board of
commissioners west of Pearl River, by Minor, under the act of
Congress of 1803, regulating the grants of land, &c., south'
of the State of Tennessee, was confirmed for seven hundred
54 *

642-

SUPREME COURT.
Robinson et a. v. Minor et aL

and fifty-six arpents. The possession of the land is shown
from the original grant to Gayoso under the titles stated.
The complainant, Fernando Gayoso de Lemos, claims the
land as the son and only heir of Don Manuel Gayoso de Lemos.
In his bill he represents that, after the death of his father, his
mother intermarried with one James Stelle, in 1805, and that she
died in the year 1829. That the defendant Minor, being in posfraud of his rights, he being
session of the evidences of title, int
an infant, procured from the board of commissioners a certificate for the land. That in 1815 Stephen Minor departed this,
life, and left Katharine Minor, his wife, a devisee and trustee
of all his estate, and also executrix, and John Minor executor
of his last will and testament. That conveyances were executed to the defendants, all of whom had notice of the claim
of the complainant. A decree for a conveyance of the land is
prayed for, &c. Fernando Gayoso having died, his heirs were
made parties.
On the part of the complainant, it is contended that, the
original grant for the land under the Spanish government being
unconditional, no confirmation of it was required by the United
States. That the treaty protected such a title, and that Congress by the act of 1803 could not have intended to interfere
with absolute grants, but such claims only aยง required confirmation by the Spanish authority. And if is urged that
Spdin, being in possession of the country, and exercising a
government de facto over it, had the power to grant lands.
That the civil law applies as well to the transfer of the land
alleged to have been made by Don Macnuel Gayoso to Margaret Watts, as to the original grant.
These positions were sustained in the argument by much
research and ability, but we are precluded from taking this
view by the political action of the government, and the decisions heretofore pronounced by this tribunal.
On the 27th of October, 1795, a treaty was made with
Spain, which acknowledged the southern limits of the United
States to extend to the thirty-first degree of north latitude.
The territory belonged to the State of Georgia, but by deed
bearing date the 24th of April, 1802, she ceded it-to the United
States. In the deed of cession it was stipulated " that all persons who, on the 27th of October, 1795,-were actual settlers
within the territory thus ceded, shall be confirmed in all the
rants legally and fully executea prior to that day, by the
former British government, or the government of Spain," &c.
The land was in possession of Gayoso at the time specified,
and the grant having been "legally and fully executed," under
the government of Spain, it was included in the deed of ces-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

643

Robinson et aL v. Minor et aL

sion. By the fifth section of the act of the 3d of March, 1803,
above referred to, it is provided, "that every person claiming
lands by virtue of any British grant," &c., "or of the articles
of. agreement and cession between the United States and the
State of Georgia, shall, before the last day 6f March, 1804,
deliver to the register of the land-office, within whose district
the land may be, a notice in writing, stating the nature and
extent of his claims, together with a plat of the tract or tracts
claimed, and shall also, on or before that day, deliver to the
said register, fQr the purpose of being recorded, every grant,"
&c.; and on failure to do so, "all his right, so far as the same
is derived from the above-mentioned articles of agreement,"
&c., "shall become void, and for ever thereafter be barred ";
and it is declared that such deed, &c., which shall not be
recorded, shall not be evidence in any court of the United
States against any gkant under the same.
The sixth section provides, "that, when it shall appear to the
board that the claimant is entitled to a tract of land under the
articles of agreement and cession with Georgia aforesaid, in
virtue of a British or Spanish grant legally and fully executed,
they shall give a certificate thereof, describing the tract of land
and the grant, and stating that the claimant is confirmed in his
title thereto by virtue of the said articles; which certificate,
being recorded by the register of the land-office," who shall record it, "shall amount to a relinquishment for ever on the part
of the United States." An act supplementary to the above
was passed on the 27th of Mlarch, 1804, providing for the survey of lands claimed by Spanish grants, but it has no direct
bearing on the questions before us.
The treaty with Spain established a disputed boundary;
there was no cession of territory. The jurisdiction exercisd
by Spain over the country north of the thirty-first degree of
north latitude was not claimed or occupied by force of arms,
against an adversary power; but it was a naked possession,
under a misapprehension of right. In such a case, Georgia,
within whose sovereignty the country was situated, was not
bound to recognize the grants or other evidence of title by the
Spanish government.
In the case of Pool v. Fleeger, 11 Peters, 210, where North
Carolina-and Tennessee made grants for lands within the territory of Virginia, through a mistake of the boundary line, the
court say, "It is perfectly clear that the grants under which the
defenlants claim, being beyond the boundary of Tennessee,
were inoperative." The same doctrine has been held in relation
to the Spanish grants north of the thirty-first degree of north
latitude, in Henderson v. Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 530; Lessee

644

SUPREME COURT.
Robinson et al. v. Minor et al.

of Hickey et al. v. Stewart et aL, 3 How. 756; Ll Roche et al.
v. Jones, 9 How. 170.
The title in question belongs to a class which was recognized and made valid hn the cession of the territory by Georgia to the United States. This act of Georgia, though voluntary, was just. It secured to the Spanish claimant a title,
which, so far as he was concerned, had been acquired in good
faith, but which was void for want of authority in the granting
power. In requiring the holders of complete grants to present them and the plats of survey before commissioners, under
the act of 1803, Congress carried out the compact with Georgia. In reference to such titles the words of the cession were,
"they shall be confirmed." And although the forfeiture of the
title, if not presented and recorded, was a rigorous provision,
yet. it was within the pawer of Congress. Until these titles
were examined, and their boundaries ascertained, the government could not make a survey and sale of the lands to which
there were no valid claims. It was therefore important, that
all titles to which validity was given by the cession and by
acts of Congress should be placed upon the public records,
under the sanction or rejection of a .competent board of commissioners.
The ground on which the complainants chiefly rely for a
decree is a presumed defect in the conveyance from the widow
of Gayoso to Clark.
The indorsement upon the original grant by Don Manuel
Gayoso, that he had conveyed the property to Margaret Watts,
referred to an instrument other than that indorsed on the
grant. And we find in the deed from Clark to Lintot, and
also in the deed from Lintot to Minor, there is a reference to
that instrumeAt, reciting its date and that it accompanied: the
deeds executed. And these conveyances were sanctioned by
the solemn act of the commissioners .when they confirmed the
title to Minor. Under this title there has been a continuous
possession of fifty years. The consideration paid by Clark
satisfactorily shows that he supposed himself to have acquired
a complete title to the land. Under these circumstances, if the
decision of the case tirned upon the legal title, such title
might well be presumed, whether the conveyances were executed under the laws of Spain or of Georgia.
It may be presumed that in the.conveyance to Miss Watts,
which has by some means been lost, the forms of the civil law
were pursued, as the common law was not adopted in any
part of the Spanish dominions. But validity was imparted to
such conveyance by _the compact with Georgia, the act of
1803, and the proceedings under that act, the same as to the

DECEMBER TERM,'1850.

645

Robinson et al. v. Minor et al.

original grant. There is no probability that Gayoso by the
conveyance vested no higher interest than might have been
claimed by Miss Watts after her marriage with him under the
civil law. The fact of his having executed to her a conveyance, of which there is proof, may well justify the inference,
that he gave her an absolute title to the land.
But there is ahother and a more conclusive view of the case.
If it be admitted that the complainants may go behind the
confirmation of the title by the commissioners, there is nothing
on which they can rest but a paramount equity. And what is
the nature of that equity as made out in the proof? The
heirship of the complainants may be admitted as proved, but
there is no other proof of equity than a supposition unsustained by facts, and contradicted by strong circumstances, that
a life estate only in the premises was vested in Madame Gayoso. This supposition is xefuted by the only rational motive
which can be presumed to have induced Don Manuel Gayoso
to make the conveyance to his intended wife; by the fact,
that, after his death, the widow'sold the premises for a full
consideration, and saw them occupied by persons claiming
them in fee for fhirty years, until her death, without setting up

any claim thereto in behalf of her son, or informing him that
he had a right to the premises after her decease. Under such
circumstances, equity can give no relief to the complain.
ants. The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is ngw here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

