72

SUPREME COURT.
McNulty v. Batty et al.

the said Circuit Court of jurisdiction of this case; 2d. That
the facts stated in the plea to the amended bill filed by the defendants James Robertson, Richard H. Bayard, James S.Newbold, Herman Cope, and Thomaf S. Taylor, do not deprive
'the - said .Circuit Court of jurisdiction of this case; - and that
this bpinion renders it unnecessary foi this court to answer the
remainder of the -questions certified. Whereupon it is now
here ordered and adjudged by-this court, that it be so certified
to the said Circuit Court.

JoHN McNuLTY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN BATTY, ROnERT SHAw,

DANtIEL

WVANN, A&ND
THonmAs C. LEGA&TE.

Where a case had been brought up to this court from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wiiconsin, and was pending in this court at the time when Wisconsin

was admitted as a State, the jurisdiction of this court over it ceased when such admission took place. •
Provision was made in the act of Congress for the transfer, from the Territorial
courts to the District Court of the United States, of all cases appropriate to the
jurisdiction of the new District Court; but none for cases appropriate
to the juris-

diction of State tribunals.
By the admission of Wisconsin as a State, the Territorial government ceased to exist,
and all th6 authority under it,
including the laws organizing its courts of justice

and providing for a revision.of their judgments in this court.
The act of Congress passed in February, 1848, supplementary to that of February,
1847, applies only'to cases which were pending in the Territorial courts, and do-t
rot include such as were pending in thi court at the time of the admission of Wisconsin as a State.
Even if Congress had directed the transfer, to the District Court of the United States,
of cases appropriate to the 3urisdiction of State courts, this court could not have
carried its judgment into effect by a mandate to the District Court.

THE'facts in this case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by rt. May, for the
plaintiff in error, and Mrit. Carlisle, for the defendants in error.
r.May's argument was as follows.
This case. comes here by writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin Territory.
In the District Court of Iowa County, on the 3d of November,
1845, the plaintiff in error- sued out his writ of attachment, irf
an action of debtr against the defendants in error, founded on
his affidavit (according to the law and practice of that Territory).
I The sherift seized certain goods and chattels of one of the
defendants, to wit, Legate, which, on motion, were ordered by
the court to be sold.
The defendants, at the next term of said court, on the 4th of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

'73

McNulty v. Batty et al.

'March, 1846, appeared by their cQunsel, and moved for a rule
on plaintiff to file his declaration within three days, which
was denied.
At the next term of the cour4 the plaintiff, by leave of the
court, filed his declaration, containing three counts. The first
upon a judgment against the defendants, recovered in the State
of Illinois. The second on a bill of exchange, drawn by one
of the defendants and accepted by the others. The third upon
an account for goods, wares, and merchandise.
The defendants moved the court to strike out all the said
counts except the first, on account of a variance, because the
action was founded on the affidavit, which stated the judgment alone as the cause of action, which motion was granted;
whereupon the defendants pleaded, and after several pleas, replictions, and demurrers, issue was joined by agreement of the
parties, and the cause tried by the court.
The plaintiff read a record of a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Illinois.
The defendants then offered to read the record of the same
case in the Supreme Court of Illinois (which showed a reversal
of the judgment of the Circuit Court). The plaintiff objected,
to the offering of this record, because it'was not properly authenticated, but the court overruled his objection, and he excepted.
Judgment was rendered for the defendants, by the District
Judge.
Plaintiff moved for a new trial, and filed his reasons, which
was denied.
The case was carried by writ qf error to the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin Territoiy, where the judgment of the District
Court was affirmed.
The plaintiff in error will contend here, that.the judgment of
the said Supreme. Court ought to be reversed, becauee, First, the District Court erred in striking out the counts of
the declaration as aforesaid, after defendants had appeared fo
the action. Statutes of Wisconsin .concerning Attachments,
§ 7. Rowen v. Taylor, Wisconsin RepQrts, 'July term, 1842.
He ought to have pleaded in abatement. McKenna'v. Fisk, 1
Howard, 241; 11 Wheaton, 280.
Second, the record of the said Supreme Court of Illinois was'
not duly authenticated, so as to be used as evidence in said
suit, and ought not to have been received.
The certificate of Samuel H. Treat does not certify that the
attestation of the clerk "is in due form," and styles him clerk
of "the State of Illinois."
It appears also, on the face of the certificate. that the judge
VOL. X.

7

74

SUPREME COURT.
McNulty v. Batty et aL

was "an associate justice," while the same record discloses
that there was a "chief justice" of said court. 1 Stat. at Large,
122 (Act of May 26, 1790). 2 Stat. at Large, 298.
Mr. Carlisle'sargument was as follows.
The defendants in error were also defehdants below. The
action was commenced by attachment, in the District Court of
Iowa County, Territory of Wisconsin. The affidavit of- the
plaintiff, dated 3d November, 1845, sets forth a debt "arising
out of, and based and founded- upon, a judgment at law,"
obtained three days before (31st October, 1845), in a county
court of the State of Illinois. Pending the attachment, and
before the plaintiff had declared, to wit, at the December term,
1845, of the Supreme Court of Illinois, the judgment upon
which the attachment was founded was reversed. And this
reversal having been pleaded and given in evidence on the trial
of the attachment, in Wisconsin, the judgmentwas for the defendants.
The plaintiff carried the case, by writ of error, to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wisconsin, where the judgment below was affirmed; and thence the case is brought to
this court by writ of error.
The defendants in error will contend that there is no error in
either of he points assigned.
1. As to the order to strike out the second and third counts
in the plaintiff's declaration, it was addressed to the discretion
of the, court, and is not subject to be assigned for error. 1 Tidd,
559.
It was not excepted to in the court below.
But if the order can bq reviewed here, it was well founded.
The proceeding by attachment is regulated by the act of 183839. (Stat. of Wisconsin, p. 165, § 7.) The affidavit must
specify the cause of action, which must be 04arising out of,
founded 1ipon, or sounding in contract, or upon the judgment
or decree of some court of law or chancery." Accordingly, the
affidavit sets forth the cause of action as "arising out of, and
based and founded- upon, a judgment at law," specifying the
same. The attachment recites the same, specially and alone.
The first count in the delaration is'upon this judgment. But the
judgment having been reversed in January, 1846, and the plaintiff in the attachment not declaring till Octobbr following, two
other counts are added to that. upon the judgment; viz. a
count upon an instrument described as a bill of exchange, being the same which was merged' in and extinguished by the
judgment set forth in the first count, and a count for goods
sold and delivered, which were the consideration for that "bill
of exchange.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

75

McNulty v. Batty et aL

The second and third counts were therefore merely frivolous
and vexatious, and intended to evade the effect of the reversal
of the judgment. And the court properly ordered them to be
stricken out.
The second and third counts, if material, could only be so
because they were variant from the first count, and consequently variant from the affidavit and the attachment.
2. As to the special demurrer to the defendant's second plea,
the plea-itself was immaterial. The first plea was nul tiel record, and put in issue the existence of the record set forth in the
first count; and at the time of that plea pleaded there "was
no such record remaining in full force and effect," &c., but the
same had been reversed and annulled before the plaintiff filed
his declaration. The record of such reversal was admissible in
evidence upon the issue joined on that plea. iJrom the time of
the reversal "it is no such record ab initio." Green v. Watts,
1 Ld. Raym. 274; Knight's case, "1 Salk. 329; S. C. 2 Ld.
Raym. 1014.
It would appear that the demurrer should have been sugtained. But the effect would have been simply an amendment. The plaintiff has not been prejudiced. He could not
have recovered. Under such circumstances judgment will not
be reversed.
But thfe plaintiff obtained leave to 'withdraw his demurrer,
and put in a replication. He thereby waived his demurrer, and
it cannot be revived here.- Craig v. Blow, 3 Stew. 448; 'Peck'
v. Boggis, 1 Scam. 281; U. States v. Boyd, 5. How. 29.' •
3. As to the objection to the admissibility of the record of
the Supreme Court of Illinois, it was not specified at the -trial.
The precise objection was not disclosed till errors were assigned on the writ of error.. This court will not now entertain it;
Cambden v. Doremus, 3 How. 515.
But the objection itself was not well founded. Although
the record was not authenticated according to the act of Congress, so as to have effect independently of the local law, yet it
was authenticated in such manner and form as to be admissible in evidence in the courts of Wisconsin by virtue of the act
of the legislature of 'that Territory. Statutes of Wisconsin, p.
246; Act concerning Testimony, &c., § 51.
If the points assigned as drror shall not have been sufficiently answered above, to the satisfaction of the court, the counsel
for the defendants in error further suggests to the court the following 6bjection to the jurisdiction.
Two acts of Congress were passed for the admission of
Wisconsin into'the Union, viz. Act 3d March. 1847 (9 Sahtat
Large, 178) ; and Act 29th May, 1848 (9 Stat at Large, 233).

76

SUPREME COURT.
McNulty v.Batty et al.

The first act prescribed a condition, upon compliance with
which, and upon the annunciation of such compliance by the
President's proclamation, the admission was to take effect. It
does not appear that this condition was complied with; and it
is supposed that the admission took effect exclusively under
the second act, and that its date is the 29th of May, 1848.
The acts of Congress regulating the appellate jurisdiction of
this court, and supposed to confer jurisdiction in this case, are
1847, ch. 17, and 1848, ch. 12 (9 Stat. at Large,'128 and 211).
It is the second section of the act of 1848, ch. 12, which contains the general provision as to States thereafter to be admitted into the Union. It makes the provisions of the act of
1847, ch. 717, applicable, "so far as may be,"' to cases which
may be pending in the Supreme Court o' any Territory at tile
time of its admission, and to cases in whic h judgments shall
have been rendered in such Supreme Court at the time of admission, and not previously removed by writ of error or appeal.
The date of the admission is 29 th May, 1848. The date of
the judgment in the Supreme Court of the Territ ry is 31st
July, 1847. The citation upon this writ of error was served 4th
December, 1847. The record was filed here 29th February,
1848. This case, therefore, was not "pending in the Supreme
Court of the Territory" at the time of admissidn, nor was it a
case in which judgment had been rendered there,. "and not
previously removed by writ of error."
But if it were in either of these categories, the provisions of
the act of 1847 do not apply, and cannot "bermade applicable."
That act gave jurisdiction only in cases where the proceedings
below were transferred to the Federal court, to which this court
was authorized to send its mandate; and not in cases "legally
transferred to the State courts."
The appellate jurisdiction of this court was not intended tQ
be reserved except in cases of " Federal character and jurisdic.
tion." Act 22d February, 1848, § 3.
. The sixth section of tfie act for the admission of Wisconsin
provides only for the transfer to the Federal court of the records of judgments, &c., "in cases arising under the, Constitution and laws of the United States," which is equivalent language to "cases of Federal character and jurisdiction."
The judgment below is "legally transferred to. the State
court." It is now a judgment in the Supreme Court of the
State of Wisconsin. The record shows that it is not a case of
Federal character and jurisdiction. But in such a case nly
can the mandate of this court go to th6 State court.. (Marin
v. Hunter, 1 Wheaton.) And in such cases only do the act in
question provide for the operation of the mandate by transfer-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

71

me"culty v. B3atty et &I.

zing the records below from the. Territorial to the Distriet
Courts.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the late Ter:.
ritory of Wisconsin. The suit was commenced- by a writ of
attachment-in the first judicial district of that Territory, on the
3d of November, 184, founded upon a judgment for $ 2747.49
previously obtained against'the defendants in a Circuit Court in
the State of Illinois. A large amount of property was attached
belonging to one of the defendants.
All the defendants appeared by attorney, and put in two
special pleas to the declaration, upon which issues were joined;
and such proceedings were afterwards had thereon, that.at the
October term, 1841, judgment was rendered in the said suit for
the defendants. The cause was thdn removed to the Supreme
Court of the Territory on error; and at the July term of that
cpurt, to wit, on the 31st of July, 1847, the judgment below
was in all things affirmed. This judgment has been appealed
from to this court, and is now before us for review. !The citation is signed the 20th of November, f847.
The case has been submitted by counsel on written argue
ments under the fortieth and fifty-sixth rules of the court.
The first question presented is, whether or not this court has
jurisdiction to review the judgment below.
The Territory of Wisconsin was admitted into the Union as
a State, on the 29th of May, 1848. (9.Stat. at Large, 233.)
An act had been previously passed, on the 2d of March,
1847, assenting to the admission on certain terms and conditions to be first complied with; and providing that upon a
compliance with them, and on the proclamation of the President announcing the fact, the admission should be considered
complete. The admission did not take place under this act,
and no proclamation was issued by the President in pursuance
of it.
The people of the Territory again assembled, by a convention of delegates, and formea their, constitution, on the 1st of
February, 1848, as is recited in the preamble of the act of Congress, passed 29th May, 1848, by the first section of which
'the State is declared to be admitted into the Union on an equal
footing with the original States. The date of the admission,
therefore, is the 29th of May, 1848.
The writ of error having been issued on the 20th 6f November, 1847, was, therefore, regularly issued during the existene
of the Territorial government, and the. case was pending in this
court at the time when that government ceased, and with it
7*,

78

SUPREME COURT.
McNulty v. Batty et al

the jurisdiction and power of the Territorial courts. (Benner
v. Porter, 9 Howard,'235.)
The fourth section of the act of Congress admitting the
State into the Union organized a District Court of the United
States for the State (see also § 4 of the Act of. 6th August,
1846, 9 Stat. at Large, 57), and the fifth section provided,
that the clerks of the District Courts of the Territory should
transmit to the clerk of the above District Court "all records
of all unsatisfied judgments, and suits pending in said courts,
respectively, attaching thereto all papers connected therewith,
in all cases arising under the laws or Constitution of the United
States, or to w.hich the United States shall be a party"; and
the said District Court shall enter the same on its docket; and
shall proceed therein to final judgment and execution, dEs if
such suits or proceedings had originally been brought in said
court.
The sixth section provides for the delivery by the clerk of
the Supreme Court of the Territory to the clerk of the District
Court, of all record, -and papers rerating to proceedings in
bankruptcy under the late bankrupt act; and also all records
of judgments, and of proceedings in suits pending, and all papers connected therewith, in cases arising under the Constitqtion and laws of the United States.
These §ections provide for the 'Federal cases pending in the
courts at the termination of the Territorial government, and for
unsatisfied judgments of that.character, by transferring them
to the Federal court, there to be proceeded in and completed, or
executed. But no provision is made for the class of cases
pending, and unfinished, that belong to the State judicature
after the admission of the Terriiory into the Union. That
class seems to have been left to be provided for by the State
authorities. We had occasion to express our views on this
subject in the recent case of Benner v. Porter, and need not repeat them.
The case before us is one of this character; and' is,
therefore, unaffected by the transfer of cases to the District
Court above provided for. And the question is, .whethei,
under these circumstances, this court has jurisdiction to review it.
By the admission of the State of Wisconsin info the Union,
on the 29th of May, 1848,.the Territorial, government ceased
to exist, and all the authority under it, including the laws organizing its courts of justice, and providing for a revision of
their judgments in this court by appeals or writs of error.
This appellate power does not depend upon the Judiciary Act
of 1789; but upon laws regulating the judicial proceedings of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

79

MoNulty v. Batty et al.

the Territory. And these necessarily ceased with the termination of the Territorial government.
In the case of the United States v. Boisdore's heirs, (8 Howard, 121,) it is said, that, as this court dan exercise no appellate
power over cases, unless conferred upon it by act of Congress, if the act conferring the jurisdiction has expired, the jurisdiction ceases, although the appeal or writ of error be actually pending in the court at the time of the expiration of the
act.
The cases on this point are referred to in the brief -inthat
case, and afford full authority for the principle, if any were
needed. (1 Hill, 328; 9 Barn. & Cres. 750; 3 Burr. 1456;
4 Moore & Payne, 341.)
The writ of error, therefore, fell with the abrogation of the
statute upon which it was founded.
Besides, since the termination of the Territorial government,
there is no court in existence to which the mandate of this
court could be sent to carry into effect our judgment. Our
powar, therefore, woul&be incomplete and ineffectual, were we
to consent to a review of the case. (Palao v. Hunt, 4 Howard,
589.) And, had the records been transferred to the District
Court, as in the Federal cases, we do not see but that the result must have been the same: for the case being one not of
Federal jurisdiction, should the judgment be affirmed or reyersed, and sent down to that court, it would possess no power
to carry the mandate into execution, having no power over the
case under the Constitution or laws of Congress conferring jurisdiction upon the Federal courts. (Art. 3, § 2, Const. U. S.;
Judiciary Act of 1789, § 11.)
There is another act of Congress beoring upon this question
which it is material to notice; and .that is, an act oupplementary to the act entitled " An Act to regulate the exercise of the
appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in certain cases,
and for other purposes," passed the 22d of February, .1848,
ch. 12 (9,ttat. at Large, 211).
The second section provides, "that all and singular the provisions of the said act to which this is a supplement, so far as
may be, shall be, and they hereby are, made applicable to all
cases which may be pending in the Supreme or other Superior
Court of and for any Territory of the United States, which may
hereafte be admitted as a State into the Union, at the time of
its admission: and to all cases in which judgments or decrees
shall have been rendered in such Supreme or Superior Court at
the time of such admission, and not previously removed ly
writ of error or appeal."'
The act to which the above is a supplement was passed

SUP REME COURT.
McNulty v. Batty et aL

22d Febiuary, i847, ch. 17, (9 Staf. at Large, 128,) and its
several provisions "related to cases Pending, and unsatisfied
judgments existing in the courts of the Territory of Florida at
the time of its admission into the Union as a State, and which
were the subject of examination in the case of Benner v. Porter, already refered to.
As the Territory of Wisconsin has been admitted into the
Union as a State since the passage of this supplementary act,
the second section applies the provisions of the Florida act 'o
the cases pending in its courts, and to the judgments existing
therein, at the time of its admission.
But it will not b material to refer particularly to those provisions, as this'second section does not bring the case before us
within them. It applies them. to all cases pending in the several courts of the Territory; and to all cases in which judgments or decrees shall have been rendered at the time of the
admission, aid not previously removed by writ of error or appeal to this court. In this case the judgment had been rendered
and removed before the admission, and was pending here at
the time; and is, therefore, unaffected by this supplementary act.
The section was drawn, doubtless, under the supposition,
that, if the suit was pending here, at the time of the admission
of a Territory into the Union as a State, on.appeal or writ of
errorno legislation was necessary to preserve or give effect to
the jurisdiction of the court over it; an opinion, as we have
seen, founded-in error.
In placing the want ofjurisdtction, however, upon this ground,
ve must not be understood as admitting, that, if the provisions
of the Florida act of the 22d of February, 1847, applied to the
case, the jurisdiction could be upheld. For, if we are right in
the conclusion, that, even assuming the record in the case had
been transferred from the Territorial to the District Court of
the Slate, our jurisdiction would still be incomplete and ineffectual, inasmuch as that court possessed no power to carry
the mandate into execution, the case not being one of Federal
jurisdiction, the result would be the same as that at which we
have arrived.
In- every view, therefore, we have been able to take of the
case, we are satisfied, that our jurisdiction over it ceased with
the termination of the Territorial governmentand laws; and
that it has not been revived or preserved, if, indeed, it could
have been, by any act or authority of Congress on the subject
and that the writ of error must be abated.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard-on the transcript of the rec-

81

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Preston et al. v. Bracken.

ord from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wisconsin,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that this writ of error be,
and the same is hereby, abated.

SYLVESTER B. PRESTON, WILLIAM KENDALL, WILLIAM NICHOLS, AND
WILLIAM T. PHILLIPS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. CHARLES BRAcKEx.
This case was decided on the same ground as the preceding case of McNulty v.
Batty and others.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the late
Territory of Wisconsin.
An action of ejectment was commenced at the April term,
184, of the Iowa County Court, by the defendant in error,
against the plaintiffs in error, to recover a lot of land situate in
that county. The venue was afterwards changed to the county
of Milwaukie. Issue having been joined, and a ,jury impanelled and sworn, a verdict was found for the ph.intiff, upon
which a judgment was entered.
On the 19th of July, 1847, the case was carried by writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin Territory, and on
the 2d day of August, the judgment of the County Court. was
affirmed by a divided court.
Whereupon a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wisconsin was sued out of this court, and the citation served on the 24th of November, 1847.
Wisconsin was admitted into the Union as a Sate by the
act of Congress approved 29th May, 1848.
-

The cause was submitted on printed arguments by 1MTr. May,
for the plaintiffs in error, and .Mr. Walker, for-the defendant in
error. As the case was determined upon the point of jurisdiction, and as the argument for the plaintiffs in error was upon.
the merits, and as the argument for the defendant in error on
the question of jurisdiction, assumed substantially the same
ground as was taken by the counsel for the defendant in error
in the case of McNulty v. Batty et al. ante, p. 72, the arguments are not here inserted.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the late Ter-ritory of Wisconsin.
The suit was an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff

