81

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Preston et al. v. Bracken.

ord from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wisconsin,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that this writ of error be,
and the same is hereby, abated.

SYLVESTER B. PRESTON, WILLIAM KENDALL, WILLIAM NICHOLS, AND
WILLIAM T. PHILLIPS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. CHARLES BRAcKEx.
This case was decided on the same ground as the preceding case of McNulty v.
Batty and others.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the late
Territory of Wisconsin.
An action of ejectment was commenced at the April term,
184, of the Iowa County Court, by the defendant in error,
against the plaintiffs in error, to recover a lot of land situate in
that county. The venue was afterwards changed to the county
of Milwaukie. Issue having been joined, and a ,jury impanelled and sworn, a verdict was found for the ph.intiff, upon
which a judgment was entered.
On the 19th of July, 1847, the case was carried by writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin Territory, and on
the 2d day of August, the judgment of the County Court. was
affirmed by a divided court.
Whereupon a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wisconsin was sued out of this court, and the citation served on the 24th of November, 1847.
Wisconsin was admitted into the Union as a Sate by the
act of Congress approved 29th May, 1848.
-

The cause was submitted on printed arguments by 1MTr. May,
for the plaintiffs in error, and .Mr. Walker, for-the defendant in
error. As the case was determined upon the point of jurisdiction, and as the argument for the plaintiffs in error was upon.
the merits, and as the argument for the defendant in error on
the question of jurisdiction, assumed substantially the same
ground as was taken by the counsel for the defendant in error
in the case of McNulty v. Batty et al. ante, p. 72, the arguments are not here inserted.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the late Ter-ritory of Wisconsin.
The suit was an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff

82

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et al. v. Graham.

below, the defendant in error, in the second; and removed to
the third judicial district of the Territory, to recover possession
of a small piece of land; and was commenced on the 16th
of April, 1845.
Issue being joined between the parties, such proceedings
were had thereon, that judgment was afterwards. rendered
,against the defendants in the June term of said court in the
year 1846.
The case was afterwards removed to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, and the judgment of the court below affirmed by
a divided opinion at the July term of that cotrt, to wit on
the 2d of August, 1847.
The judgment was afterwards removed to this court by a
writ of error for review. The citation is signed 22d November, 1847.
The case was, therefore, pending here on the 29th of May,
1848, at the time of the admission of the Tertitory into the
Union as a State. It is one not of a Federal chartcter, but
belonging to the State judicature, and therefore falls within
the decision of the case of 'McNulty v. Batty and others, just
made, and the writ of, error must be abated.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard onthe transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wisconsii,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this writ of
error be, and the same is hereby, abated.

JACOB

AND Joax AnxSTRONG, PLAINTIfS
STRADER, I.ix
JAMES
EnRO,GORMAN,
v. CwHISTOPHER GRAIAM.

Under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, this court has no.Jurisdiction over the
following question, viz. "Whether slaves who had been permitd by their master
to pass occasionally from Kentucky into Ohio acquired thereby a right to fredom
etckalncoddeiepn
atether asr to wetuk 1' Teasof
fte U ied Ste..r
r
ese
sitto
thi"
o
in
upo. th m b tS h
exep
obligations~~impased
There is nothing in the Constitution of the United States that can in tny degree
control the law of Kentucky upon this subject.
The Ordinance of 1787 cannot confer jurisdiction upon this court. It was itself su-perseded by the adoption of the Constitution of The United States, which placed
.a perfect equality, which they would not be if
all the States of the Union
the Ordinance continued to be in force after its adoption.

Such of the provisions of the Ordinance as are yet in farce owed their validity to

