DECEMBER TERII, 1850.

477

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

tion whether it was made with a full knowledge of all the faek
going to discharge him from his obligation.
This question was, therefore, properly submitted to the jury.
But, upon the grounds above stated, and principally the misconstruction of the terms of the letter of credit, which was fatal
to the right of the plaintiffs, and the error in respect to the degree of diligence to be used in giving notice of the transactions
under it, the judgment must be reversed, and the case remitted, and a venire de novo awarded for a new trial.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for 'the District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Couri
with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

CHARLES J. GAYLER AND LEONARD BnowN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
BENJA IIN G. WILDER.
An assignment of a patent right, made and recorded in the Patent-Office before the
patent issued, which purported to convey to the assignee 'all the inchoate right
which the assignor then possessed, as well as the legal title which he was about to
obtain, was sufficient to transfer the right to the assignee, although a patent afterwards was issued to the assignor.
When an assignment is made, under the fourteenth section of the act of 1836, of the
exclusive right within a specified part of the country, the assignee may sue in his
own name, provided the assignment be of the entire and unqualified monopoly.
But any assignment short of this is a mere license, and will not carry with it a right
to the Lsignee to sue in his own name.
Therefore, an agreement that the assignee might make and vend the article within
certain specified limits, upon paying to the assignor a cent per pound, reserving,
however, to the assignor the right to establish a manufactory of the article upon
paying to the assignee a cent per pound.'was only a license; and a suit for an infringement of the patent right must be conducted in the name of the assignor.
Where a person had made and used an article similar to the one which was -afterwards patented, but had not made is distovery public, using it simply for his own
private purpose, and without having tested it so as to discover its usefulness, and
it had then been finally forgotten or.abandoned, such prior invention and use did
not preclude a subsequient inventor from taking out a patent.

This was a writ of error to the, Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York.
The defendant in error (who was plaintiff in the court below)
brought an action against Gayler and Brown (the plaintiffs in

478

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

error), for an alleged infringement of a patent right for tb use
of plaster of-Paris in the construction of fire-proof chests.
In the declaration, it was averred that one Daniel Fitzgerald
was the original and first inventor of a new and useful improvemeht in fire-proof chests or safes, and that letters patent
were granted him therefor, bearing date the 1st day of June,
1843. The patent was in the usual form, and was set out in
the declaration, the specification annexed to which was as follows "" To all whom it may concern:
"Be it known that I, Daniel Fitzgerald, of the city, county,
and State of New York, and a citizen of the United States,
he-vu discovered and made an improvement, new and useful,
in wle construction of iron chests, or safes, intended to resist
the nction of fire, and for the safe-keeping and preserving books
and papers, and other valuables, from destruction by fire, which
I call'a Salamander safe or chest.
"The following is a full and exact description of the safe or
chest, with my improvement combined therewith:
"I make two iron chests, in the common and ordinary way
of making iron chests, which is well known to those engaged
in this branch of business, one smaller than the other, which,
when the safe is put together, forms the inner chest, or inner
part of the safe. *The other chest is made about three inches
larger than the inner one, and so as, when put together, it will
form the outer part or crust of the safe, andleave a space between the inner and outer chests of the safe of about three
inches; which space may vary a little, more or less, when the
chests are put together, but should be the same all round, and
in every direction. The inner and outer doors, where two
doors are used, are prepared in the same way, leaving a space,
as above, between the inner and outer crust of each door, which
space is left for a like purpose with that left between the inner
and outer chest of the safe. Where one door is used, it should
be made in the same manner, leaving a like Space between the
inner and outer crust or face of the door, and for a like purpose,
and should be fitted to the chest or safe with great accuracy.
The edges and openings for the doors are to be neatly finished,
as in other chests. I then take plaster of Paris or gypsum,
and, having boiled it or baked it in -an oven, and calcined it,
and reduced it to a powder, I mix it with water till it is about
the consistency of cream -or thin paste, so fluid as that it may
readily be poured into the space left as above to receive it, and
I then fill all the space \vith the plaster of Paris, putting in
some sheets of mic-a between the inner and outer chest, to aid,
if necessary, in bhecking the progress of the heat.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

479

Gayler et &I. v. Wilder.

"But where pains are taken to have all the space left for the
plirpose properly filled with the plaster of Paris, as above, so
that when set it will expand and adhere firmly to the surroundIg parts, a~d completely fill the whole space, and all the cracks
and joints, ,*emica may be dispensed with, aiid every other
substance, and the plaster may be used alone. It may also be
reduced. to a powder, without being prepared as above, and used
-in that state; but I have not found it as good.
(The inner case or chest may be made of wood instead of
iron, as for a bookcase, and if the space left between that and
the outer chest be filled in the manner and with the materials
above named, it will ma!he a very durable safe, that will effectually resist the fire, as I have found by experience; but the
safe may not be so strong or durable, though somewhat
cheaper.
" The above composition or preparation of gypsum may be
mixed with several other articles not contrary to its nature,
with a view to increase its efficacy in resisting the action of
fire; but from my experience I doubt if they have much effect.
The gypsum alone, -vhen properly prepared, and properly
placed in the space left to receive it, and made to fill it completely, is quite sufficient to resist, for a long space of time, the
most intense heat. The chemical properties of this article are
such, that, by the application of intense heat, it imparts a vapor
or gas, or some other properties, which effectually stay the
progress of the fire, and arres the influence and effects of the
heat; this I have ascertained by various experiments; and I
believe I am the first maii that discovered the utility, and devised the method of applying gypsum, or plaster of Paris, to
increase the safety of an iron chest. I am not aware that this"
article was ever used for the purposes above set forth, until I
used it in the manner above described.
" I therefore claim, as my discovery and invention and improvement, the application and use of plaster of Paris, or gypsum, in its raw state, or prepaied as. above, either alone or
with mica, in the construction of all iron chests or safes, in the
manner above described, or in any other manner substantially
the same.
DANIEL FITZGERALD,

"Witnesses

- G. H. PATTERSON,
BEvERLEY R. HENSON, jr."

It was also averred in -the declaration, that before the date
of said letters patent, to wit, on the 7th day of April, 1839, the
said Daniel Pitzgerald made an assignment, which was duly
recorded in the Patent-Office of the United States, on the 1st
day of June, 18-39, as follows -

480

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v.

Wilder.

" Whereas I, Daniel .Fitzgerald, of the city, county, and
State of New York, have invented certain. improvements in
safes, which invention I call the ' Salamander safe,' for which
I am about to make application for letters patent of the United
States: And whereas E. Wilder, of New York aforesaid, has
agreed to purchase from me all right, and title, and interest
which I have, or may have, in and to the said invention, in
consequence of the grant,of letters patent therefor, and has
paid to me, the said Fitzgerald, the sum of five thousand dollars,the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged:
" Now, this indenture witnesseth, that, for and in consideration of the said sum to me paid, I have assigned and transferred to E. "Wilder aforesaid the full and exclusive right to all
the improvements made by me, as fully set forth and described
in the specification which I have prepared and executed preparatory to obtaining letters patent therefor. And I hereby
authorize and request the Commissioner of Patents to issue
the said letters patent to the said E. Wilder and his legal
representatives.
" In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set, my hand,.and
affixed my seal, this 11th day of April, 1839.
"Witnesses : -

DANIEL FITZGERALD. [SE.EL.]
OWEN G. WARREN,
CHARLES

H.

FosTERP

The declaration then proceeded as follows :"And the said plaintiff further saith, that the said Enos
Wilder, in his lifetime, after the making of the said assignment
by the said Daniel Fitzgerald to the said Enos Wilder, as
afore mentioned, and before the committing of the several grievances hereinafter mentioned, to wit, on the first day of September, in the year of our Lord 1843, and within the Southern
District of New York aforesaid, did execrite a certain instrument or agreement to the said plaintiff, whereby the said Enos
Wilder, in consideration of the agreement made with the said
plaintiff, and of one dollar to him, the said Enos Wilder, in
hand 15aid by the said plaintiff, bargained, sold, conveyed, and
assigned to the said plaintiff all the right, title, and interest of
him, the said Enos Wilder, in and unto the patent granted to
the said Daniel Fitzgerald, for an improvement in fire-proof
safes and chests, by the use of prepared gypsum, dated June
1, 1843; and of which patent he, the said Enos Wilder, was
the sole owner and assignee, as wili appear by the records of
the Patent-Office; and which patent he, the said Enos Wilder,
had good right to sell and convey to the said plaintiff, to be by
,him, the said plaintiff, held as his own property, free from all

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

481

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

claims from the said Enos Wilder, or any one claiming under
him, the said Enos Wilder, as by the said instrument or agreement, sealed with the seal of the said Enos Wilder, ready in
court to be produced, will, reference thereunto being had, fully
and at large appear."
This last-mentioned instrument was averred to have been
recorded in the Patent-Office of the United States on the 10th
day of October, 1843.
It was then averred, that, by virtue of the last-mentioned instrument, plaintiff became, and ever since hath been, sole owner
of said improvement, &c., yet, the defendants well knowing, &c.
The defendants pleaded the general issue, and gave notice"
that they would offer evidence that Daniel Fitzgerald was not
the first and original inventor of the improvement patented.
The bill of exceptions was as follows :BENSATIIN

G.

WILDER V. CHARLES

J.

GAYLER AND LEoNARD

BROWN.

Be it remembered that, on the trial of the aforesaid issue,
the plaintiff, to maintain the same, after having read said patent
in evidence as set forth in the declaration, read the following
conveyance and agreement, which was duly recorded, and a
copy of which was, at the date of said patent, indorsed on the
same, viz.: [Here was inserted the conveyance from Fitzgerald to Enos
Wilder of the 11th of April, 1839, already set out in full in the
declaration.]
And thereupon the defendants insisted that said instrument
did not convey the legal title of said patent to the said Enos
Wilder, and that, upon such conveyance, he could ndt have
brought a suit on the same; but said court decided that said
instrument operated to convey the. interest in- said patent to
said Enos Wilder, so that; during his life, he could have maintained an action at law on the same; to which opinion of said
court the counsel for the defendants then and there excepted.
1st Exception.
And the plaintiff then read the conveyance from said Enos
'Wilder to him, as stated in his said declaration, which he insisted made out a right in him to sustain his aforesaid action;
but the defendants, to show that, after the .date of the conveyance to the plaintiff, and before he commenced this action, he
made, executed, and delivered to Silas C. Herring, Esq., the
following agreement and conveyance, namely: "B njamin G. Wilder agrees with Silas C. Herring to grant
to him the sole and exclusive right to make the safe, called the
voL. X.

41

482

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et aL v. Wilder.

Salamander safe, according to the terms and upon the plan
pointed out and described in the patent and specification of
Daniel Fitzgerald, which potent is dated June 1, 1843, and was
assigned to Enos Wilder, and by him to Benjamin G. Wilder,
who now owns the same; and this license is to be for the city,
county, and State of New York; and said Herring is to have
and enjoy the full and exclusive right to make and vend said
safes in the city,.county, and State of New York, and nowhere
else; the said Herring is to have the same for the residue of
the unexpired term of said patent, with all the improvements
which may be made in the manufacture of said safes which
said B. G. Wilder may have a right to use during said term;
and said Herring agrees-that said Wilder may use all the improvements which he may make, or have a right to use, during
said term. In consideration whereof, said Herring agrees with
said Benjamin G.Wilder to pay to him, for the use of the
right aforesaid, one cent a pound for each and every pound
said safes may weigh when finished and sold; which sum is
to be paid monthly so long as said patent remains in full force,
and until the same has been set aside by the highest coLit of
the United States to which the same may be carried; but said
Herring agrees to pay the one cent a pound for the space of
two years, at all events, and whether said patent shall be
declared good or nbt. If sustained, then said Herring iA to
pay as aforesaid for the full term as aforesaid. All the safes
so made and sold by said Herring are to have said Wilder's
patefit marked thereon. the same as heretofore, in a plate, or
cast in letters, ' Wilder's patent safe.' Said Herring agrees to
keep an accurate account of all the safes by him made, or
caused to be made, under said contract and patent, with the
weight of each when sold, and the names of the persons t6
whom sold, and their places of abode, and to render said account monthlyif so often called on for it, and to pay accordingly. Said Herring is to manufacture all the safes he may sell,
or offer to sell, under nd according to said patent, with such
improvements as he may have a right to use, and be marked
as above with the wdrds, in large, legible letters, ' Wilder's
patent safe.'
Said Wilder reserves to himself the right to
manufacture, in this city and State of New York, or elsewhere,
safes to sell out of this State and city; but if sold within this
State or city, then said Wilder is to pay said Herring one cent
a pound on each safe so made and sold within this city or State.
Said Wilder is not himself to set up 6r establish, nor author;ze
any one else to set up and establish, any manufactory or works
for making Salamander safes, or safes similar to said Salamander safes, at any place within fifty miles of this city. Said

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

483

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

Herring is to make all safes like Wilder's, and not vary in any
substantial part therefrom, with such improvements as may be
added.
"In presence of
S. P. STAPLES,

Witness to both signatures.
"9New York, Tanuary 61h, 1844.
"If said patent should not be decided to be good till the end
of three years, then for the time over the two years, till decided
good, said Herririg pays nothing. It is further understood and
agreed, that all safes made by said Herring, or in the making
of which, or the selling thereof, he shall in any way be directly
or indirectly concerned, consisting of a double case or box with
the intermediate spate filled with plaster or any non-conducting substance, shall be considered within this agreement, and
be paid accordingly.

B. G. WILDER,
SILAS C. HERRING 2"

"(Received and recorded 80th January, 1844.)"
2d Exception.
And thereupon the defendants insisted that the plaintiff bad
parted with all his interest in said patent by virtue of said
agreement, so that he could not sustain his aforesaid action.
But said court decided that the plaintiff had not, in and by
said agreement, so far parted with his interest in said patent as
to deprive him -of the right to sustain his aforesaid action; to
which opinion of said court the defendants did then and there
except.
3d Exception.
And the defendants then and there objected, that the invention and improvement, set forth and claimed in said patent as
the invention of the patentee, was not the subject of a patent;
that it was the mere application of an cd, well-known material
to a new purpose, which they insisted could not be the-subject
of a patent. But said court ovefruled said objection, and instructed the jury as herein set forth ; to which, as well as to
the said instructions to said jury, the defendants excepted.
And the plaintiff, to maintain his aforesaid issue, called
sundry witnesses to prove, and claimed that he had proved,
that he made the discovery which was the foundation of his
invention and improvement as early as some time in the year
1830; that he made experiments in various ways, to test the
utility of his discovery and improvement, at different times, in
the different years from 1830 to 1836, when he applied for his

484

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

patent; and that he pursued with due diligence that application
until he obtained his aforesaid patent; and that the delay
which had arisen in obtaining said patent was not caused by
the fault or negligence of the patentee, or his assignee, Enos
Wilder, nor any one else, but arose from the burning of the
Patent-Office, and other causes not under the control of the applicant3 for the patent; and that the defendants had infringed
said patent, as set forth in said declaration.
And the defendants introduced evidence to prove, and claimed that they had proved, that said Daniel Fitzgerald was not the
first and original inventor of what he claimed in said patent as
his improvement Among other witnesses, James Conner testified, that, between 1829 and 1832, he was engaged in business
as a stereotype founder, and, knowing that plaster of Paris was
a non-conductor of heat, he constructed a safe with a double
chest, and filled the space between the inner and outer one
with plaster of Paris, -the same, substantially, as testified to
and claimed by Fitzgerald, except there was no plaster used
on the top of the safe. It was made for his own private use in
his establishment, and was used by him as a safe from the
time it was made till'L838, when it passed into other hands.
It was kept in his counting-room while he used it, and known
to the persons working in the foundery.
This testimony was confirmed by his brother, John Conner,
except that he fixes the time of constructing the safe in the
year 1831 or 1832. But one safe was made by Conner, and
since it passed out of his hands he has used others of a different construction.
The defendants also claimed that, if said Daniel Fitzgerald
was the first and original inventor of said improvement, as he
claimed, yet that he had made said iron safes, and sold them,
under such circumstances as that he had thereby abandoned
the same, and suffered the same to go into public use in such
manner as to lose all right to said invention and improvement,
if any he ever had.
And the court thereupon, instructed the jury that, if they
found that Daniel Fitzgerald, the patentee, was the first and
original inventor of the said improvement claimed in said
patent, and that The use of plaster of Paris, in combination
with and in the construction of an iron safe, is new and useful,
as in the specification of said patent is set forth and claimed,
then they would find that the patent was valid, and protected
the invention and improvement as claimed, unless the plaintiff, or those under whom he claimed, had abandoned said
improvement to the public, and suffered the same to go into
public use before the application for said patent, of which facts
the jurors were the judges.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

485

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

And said court further instructed said jury, that if they
found that the use made by James Conner of plaster of Paris
was confined to a single iron chest, made for his own private
use after said Fitzgerald's discovery and experiments, then it
was not in the way of Fitzgerald's patent, and the same was
valid; but if the jury found that said James Conner made his
said safe, as claimed, and tebted it by experiments before Fitzgerald's invention and improvement, and before he tested the
sarme, then said Fitzgerald was not the first inventor, as claim.
ed, and was not entitled to said patent.
The court further charged, that, independently of these
considerations, there was another view of the case, as it
respected the Conner safe: that it was a question whether the
use of it by him had been such as would prevent another inventor from taking out a patent; that if Conner had not made
his discovery public, but had used it simply for his own private purpose, and it had been finally forgotten or abandoned
such a discovery and use would be no obstacle to the taking
out of a patent by Fitzgerald, or those claiming under him, if
he be an original, though not the first, inventor or discoverer
of the improvement.
4th Exception.
And said court, in summing up said case to said jury, further
instructed them, that if they found that Daniel Fitzgerald was
the first and original inventor of said improvement, as set forth
in said patent, and had not abandoned or dedicated the same
to the public, but had, with reasonable diligence, pursued his
invention till he had perfected the same, and used due dili.
gence in applying for, and in pursuing his application for a
patent, until he obtained the same, and if they found the defendants had made and sold safes, as charged in the plaintiffis
declaration, then they would find their verdict for the plaintiff
for such actual damages as they judged just and reasonable;
but if they found otherwise, then they "would find for the defendants. To each and all of these instructions given to the
jury, the counsel for the defendants excepted.
And forasmuch as the facts aforesaid, and the decisions of
the court thereon, do not appear of record, the defendants pray
that this their bill of exceptions may be allowed.
Filed 23d Febuary, 1848.
NELsoN.[sA.

S.

The cause was argued by Mr. C(yler, for the plaintiffs hi
error, and by Mr. Staples and Mr. Webster, for.the defendant in
error.

486

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

Mr. Guyler, for plaintiffs in error.
1. The second error assigned is, that the learned judge erred in
ruling that the conveyance of.April 11th, 1839, by Fitzgerald to
Enos Wilder, of the invention for which he was about to seek
a patent, operated to convey said patent to Enos Wilder, so
that in his lifetime he could have maintained thereon an action
in his own name.
This conveyance is dated April 11th, 1839. The patent did
not issue until 1843, and then it issued to Fitzgerald, the inventor, and not to Enos Wilder, the transferree.
It will be readily conceded that the right of an assignee to
sue in his own name must, if it exist, be statutory. But no
section of any patent law in force bestows this right upon the
assignee of an improvement about to be patented, such as
was Enos Wilder.
Thu act of 1793 says, every "invention" shall be assignable. The eleventh section of the act of 1836 provides that
"eveiy patent shall.be assignable in law," etc. It speaks of the
"exclusive right under any patent," and of "the thing patented." Yet here there was no patent. The assignment is of
an improvement intended to be patented. The patent did not
exist until four years afterwards, and then it issued to the inventor, and not to the assignee of the improvement.
The sixth section of the act of 1837 provides for this very
case, by permitting the issuing of the patent in such cases
directly to the assignee of the improvement. Which should
have been, but was not, done in this instance.
As no statute, therefore, creates a right in the assignee of an
unpatented improvement to sue in his own name, it is submitted that Enos Wilder was an equitable, but not a legal,
holder of the title to this patent, and that the learned judge
erred in his ruling on this point.
2. The third error assigned is, "that the learned judge erred
in ruling that the agreement of B. G. Wilder and Silas C.
Herring, dated January 6, 1844, did not divest the said B. G.
Wilder of all his interest in the patent, so far as the State of
New York was concerned, and that the plaintiff could thereafter
maintain his action."
By its terms, it expressly divests the plaintiff, for the remainder of the time of the patent, of all interest in said patent,
so far as the city, county, and State of New York are concerned, and imposes upon the plaintiff a penalty to prevent
the exercise of any rights by him under said patent in that
State.
How, then, can damage be alleged, where the fight said to
be invaded has no existence? Or rather, how can the plaintiff

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

4S7

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

suffer damage by the invasion of a right, the whole property
in which has been passed by him to another?
The hardship of this doctrine will be more apparent when
it is considered that, if the plaintiff recover, the defendants '%ill
not be thereby exonerated from liability to Herring, the local
assignee, but may be held accountable to him, and thus be
compelled to pay these very damages a second time to another
party.
There can be no damage without an injury done to some
right possessed by the plaintiff. But here the plaintiff possesses no right. How, then, can he be damaged?
By this agreement, the advantages and profits of the patent
in the city and State of New York are the property of Herring;
and yet, if the plaintiff recover damages in this action, he will
indirectly take to himself those profits, and thus contravene his
own agreement. Herbert vu Adams, 4 Mason, 15 ; Park v. Little, 3 Wrash. C. C. 196, 197.
3. The fifth and sixth errors assigned have relation to the instruction given by the learned judge with regard to the Conner
safe.
It is submitted that, by the requirements of the patent law,
the patentee must be not only an original inventor, but the
original inventor, and that the patent will in all cases be defeated by proof of a prior invention.
It is especially urged that, even if the doctrine of the learned
judge, in his charge, were correct, it is inapplicable to a caseL
where the invention-had been for eight years in bpen, notorious
public use by the prior inventor at his counting-house, accessible to those in his employ, and then, at the expiration of eight
years, and still before even an application for plaintiff's patent
had been made, had passed into the possession of others.
It is submitted that this is not such a use as leaves it in any
respect "a question whether the use made by Conner of the
safe constructed by him had been such as would prevent another from taking out a patent."
The patent law of 1836, § 6, gives its privileges to an inventor whose invention was "not known or used by others before his discovery."
It exacts an oath from an inventor to this effect.
This safe, if Conner's invention be prior, was both known
and used before, and nowhere in the act can there be found
any qualifying words upon such knowledge or use, or any
reservation of circumstances under which prior knowledge and
use will not, if proven, defeat a patent.
The following authorities are in point, premising that the
language of the patent act of 1793, in relation to the novelty

488

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

of the invention, is the same as that employed in the act of
1836, namely, " not known or used before."
'1 The plaintiff cannot object to the originality or priority
and use of another machine, alleged to have been similar to
his own, on the ground that it had gone into disuse, or was
not notoriously in use; since it is essential to his case to prove
he was the origial inventor of the machine for which he has a:
patent." Evans v. Hettick, 3 Wash. C. C. 408.
Under the sixth section of the patent law, if the thing secured by patent had been in use, or had been described in a
public work anterior to the supposed discovery, the patent is
void, whether the patentee had a knowledge of this previous
use or not. Evans v. Eaton, 3 Wheat. 454.
If the original inventor of a machine abandons the use of it,
and does not take out a patent for it, no other person can entitle himself to a patent for it. Evans v. Eaton, 1 Pet. C. C.
323.
In an action for a violation of a patent granted by the United
States for an alleged original invention, the plaintiff must
satisfy the jury that he was the original inventor in relation to
every part of the world.
Although no proof was made that the patentee knew that
the discovery had been made prior to his, still he could not recover, if, in fact, he was not the original inventor. Dawson v.
Follen, 2 Wash. C. C. 311; Reutgen v. Kanowrs, 1 Wash.
C. C. 168; Whitney v. Emmett, 1 Bald. 303. Also, Curtis on
Patents, § 40, note.
The same construction of the act of Congress is given by
Judge Story, in Reed v. Cutter, 1 Story, 590.
After ruling that the applicant must be not only an original
inventor, but the original inventor, he says: " And it is of no
consequence whether the invention is extensively known and
used, or whether the kngwledge and use thereof is limited to
a few persons, or even to the first inventor himself, or is kept a
secret by him."'
And again: "4The language of the patent act of 1836, p.357,
§ 6, not known or vsed, &c., does not require that the invention
should be known or used by more than one person, but merely
indicates that the use should be by some other person. than the
patentee."
And again: "The decision in Dolland's case may be a correct exposition of the English statute of monopolies (21 James
I.), but is not applicable to the patent law of the United
States."
4. But there is another view of the case from this point,
'which is entitled to oonsideration

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

489

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

It is submitted that, measured by the seventn section of the,
act of 1839, the construction and use of the Conner safe had
been such as necessarily and absolutely to defeat the plaintiff's patent, and that the learned judge erred in not thus instructing the jury (5th, 6th, and 7th exceptions).
That section provides, " That every person or corporation who has, or shall have,
purchased or constructed any newly invented machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, prior to the application by
the inventor or discoverer for a patent, shall be held to possess
the right to use, and vend to others to be used, the specific machine, manufacture, or composition of matter so made or purchased, without liability therefor to the inventor, or to any other
person interested in such invention; and no patent shall be
held to be invalid by reason of such purchase, sale, or use prior
to the application for a patent as aforesaid, except on proof of
abandonment of such invention to the public; or that such
purchase, sale, or prior use has been for more than two years
prior to such application for a patent."
In this section the words "newly invented machine, manufacture, or composition of matter" have been decided by this
court to be synonymous with "invention or thing patented."
MIcClurg v. Kingsland, 1 Howard, 202.
Now it is the distinct and uncontradicted fact, that in this
case the invention or thing patented had been "constructed,"
and was in use by another, at least eight years before the
application for a patent. And yet, by the final clause of the
section just quoted, if there is proved such use, "two years
prior to the application for a patent," such "1patent shall be
held to be invalid."
It is stated by one witness, that between the years 1829 and
1832, and by another, that in the year 1831 or 1832, Conner
made a safe constructed precisely as is the patented safe, - that
it was used as the safe for his establishment, - was kept in his
counting-room, and was known to the persons working in his
foundery, - and so continued to be until 1838, when it passed
from Conner's into other hands.
The plaintiff's application for a patent bears date April 11th,
1839.
JIt is submitted, therefore, that this patent cannot be sustained
without flatly contravening the clear and express language of
the seventh section of the act of 1839, just quoted.
This case is one in which a recovery by the plaintiff below
cannot be sustained without imposing great hardships upon
the defendants. The patent issued in 1843, -more than four
years after application for it was made, and more than thir-

490

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et %]. v. Wilder.

teen years after the applicant had perfected his invention. The
very same invention had been made by a stranger at least thirteen, and perhaps fourteen, years before the date of the patent,
and had been publicly used by him, with the knowledge of
many, for eight years before plaintiff's application for a patent,
and had then passed from him into the hands of others.
Such a use for two years, by the seventh section of the act
of 1839, defeats a patent.
Added to this, it was in evidence that the plaintiff no longer
possessed the right for the invasion of which this action was
brought, and the recovery, if had, must be for an injury done,
not to him, but to another, -hi whom the -ery same cause of
action will continue to -exist.
.Mr. Staples, contra.
1. The first question is, whether the conveyance from Fitzgerald to Enos Wilder, before the issuing of the patent, conveyed the patent itself when issued. The error on the other
side is in considering an invention as a sort of chose in action.
An invention, however, is as much property as a horse or a
house, and when patented becomes the exclusive property of
the patentee. It is consequently assignable as well before as
after the granting of letters patent. The very terms employed
in the 11th and 14th sections of the act of 1836 (5 Stat. at Large,
121, 122), and which are relied on by the other side as showing
that the patent only was assignable, show, on the contrary, that
reference was not had to any thing in the nature of a chose in
action, but that the interest of the inventor in the thing invented
was the subject of assignment. Herbert v. Adams, 4 Mason,
15, is to the effect that a conveyance of an invention operates
as a conveyance of the patent, whether dated before or after
the patent. So also Curtis on Patents, §§ 189, 260.
2. The next assignment of error is, that the court did not decide that the agreement of the plaintiff with Silas C. Herring
did not divest the former of all interest in the patent, so that he
could not thereafter maintain an action thereon. We say not;
because Wilder did not give up all his interest, he reserving one
cent a pound on all safes made under the patent in the city
and State of New York; because he reserved the right to
manufacture in the city of New Ybrk on the terms named;
because the agreement was a mere license; and because it is
obvious, from the face of the agreement itself, that Wilder was
to bring suits to sustain the patent. Brooks v. Byam, 2 Story,
541. The latter part of the agreement with Wilder was equivalent to this, viz.: Wilder sells to Herring the right to manufacture and vend safes within the city, county, and State of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

491

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

New York. But he reserves to himself the right to make wn
the city safes to be sold out of the city. He also reserves the
right to make safes to be sold within the city, upon payment
to Herring of one cent per pound. This shows that Wrilder
had not sold his entire right, and could therefore maintain this
action.
3. As to the Conner safe. The object of the law was to
protect genius and at the same time to invite something useful
to the country. A prior experiment, locked up in L man's own
bosom, not divulged to the public, not rendered useful to the
public, is surely not such an invention as will exclude a bond
fide inventor of the same thing from the benefits of the patent
laws, if he has used diligence in embodying his invention and
reducing it to practice. Such, on the contrary, was the very
person intended to be benefited. It is not correct to say that
an inventor must have been thp first man who-has ever thought
of the subject, or that mere speculations are within the meaning of the act; but he is an inventor under the law who ha.
first put the invention into such a shape as to be useful to the
public.
11r'. Webster, on the same side.
It is agreed that, under the previously existing laws, the invention would have been assignable. But it is supposed that
the act of 1836, which repeals all former laws, only makes
the patent assignable, but says nothing of the invention.
Now two things aie to be considered. 1st. In a country
where the principle of the patent laws is recognized, where an
ivvention is regarded as property which may be set apart for
a person's own exclusive use, is it not assignable, independent
of any statute enactment? If not, why is it not? What is
the reason that an invention which is recognized as property
shall not be transferrible, like other property, there being nothing in the statute to prohibit it? 2d. Does the language of
the eleventh section of the act of 1836 restrict assignability to
the patent? I think not. Every other portion of the act has
'a different aspect.
Wilder has clearly the right to maintain an action, for the
reason that he has not parted with all his interest
He still
has an interest to the value of one cent per pound. But the
agreement itself was a mere license. It uses the term license,
and does not run to the heirs and assignees.
With regard to the Conner safe, it could not be considered
such a prior invention as would take away the right of Fitzgerald to a patent. There are dicta in Judge Story's decision
in the case of Reed z. Cutter, which, if not limited, would be

492

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

of dangerous tendency. Now the instruction objected to supposes an invention to be riade, but kept within the inventor's
own bosom. The question is, whether an original inventor
(that is, one who did not derive his knowledge from another),
who has put his invention. into practice, shall be deprived of
his patent by such a mere thought, gendered in another's brain,
and to which he "gives no tongiue." The object of the patent
law, and of the Constitution under which the law was passed,
was the public benefit. If this be so, how does a man bring
himself within its provisions who locks his secret in his own
breast? And why is he less a benefactor to the public who
invents a machine which had been before invented and afterwards forgotten, than he who invents something never before

known?
Mr. Cyler, in reply and conclusion.
It is said that the invention would be assignable, independ.
ent of the patent law. It is submitted that this is not correct.
Except by statute, the invbntor has no right of property in his
invention. The statute was intended to confer that very right.
N6w the act of 1793 gave the right of assigning an invention,
and .yet, with this before them, Congress, in the act of 1836,
make only the patent assignable. If, then, the patent is
made assignable only by the law, how can it be said that the
invention does not-stand in need of such a provision ?
It is said that the plaintiff has reserved one cent per pound,
and can therefore maintain this action. It will be seen, however, that this part of the agreement is a penalty. If he,
Wilder, makes safes in New York to be sold in New York,
he shall pay &c. A license can maintain an action.
The facts as to the Conner safe should have been left to the
jury. This was not a case where the invention had been lost
or forgotten; but within a few years a man makes for his own
use, and actually uses in his own counting-house, a safe constructed upon the same principles as that which is the foundation of this suit. The law requires that a patented article
should not have been made or used before.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Three objections have been taken to the instructions given
by the Circuit Court at the trial, and neither of them is, perhaps, entirely free from difficulty.
The first question arises upon the assignment of Fitzgerald
to Enos Wilder. The assignment was made and recorded in
the Patent-Office before the patent issued. It afterwards issued to Fitzgerald. And the plaintiffs in error insist that this

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

493

Gayler.et al. v. Wilder.

assignment did not convey to Wilder the legal right to the
monopoly subsequently conferred by the patent, and that the
plaintiff, who claims under him, cannot therefore maintain
this action.
The inventor of a new and useful- improvement certainly
has no exclusive right to it, until he obtains a patent. This
right is created by the patent, and no suit can be maintained
by the inventor against any one for using it before the patent
is issued. But the discoverer of a new and useful improvement is vested by law with an inchoate -right to its exclusive
use, which he may perfect and make absolute by proceeding
in the manner which the law requires. Fitzgerald possessed
this inchoate right at the time of the assignment. The discovery had been made, and the specification prepared to obtain a patent. And it appears'by the language of the assignment, that it was intended to operate upon the perfect legal
title which Fitzgerald then had a lawful right to obtain, as
well as upon the imperfect and inchoate interest which he
actually possessed. The assignment requests that the patent
may issue to the assignee. And there would seem' to be no
sound reason for defeating the intention of the parties by restraining the assignment to the latter interest, and compelling
them to execute another transfer, unless the act of Congress
makes it necessary. The court think it does not. The act
of 1836 declares that every patent shall be assignable in law,
and that the assignment must be in writing, and recorded
within the tiane specified. But the thing to be assigned is
not the mere parchment on which the grant is written. It is
the monopoly which the grant confers: the right of property
which it creates. And when the party has acquired an inchoate right to it, and the power to make that right perfect
and absolute at his pleasure, the assignment of his whole interest, whether executed before or after the patent issued, is
equally within the provisions of the act of Congress.
And we are the less disposed to give it a different construction, because no purpose of justice would be answered by it,
and the one we now give was the received construction of the
act of 1793, in several of the circuits; and there is no material difference in this respect between the two acts. As long
ago as 18295, it was held by Mr. Justice Story, that in a case
of this kind an action could not be maintained in the name
of the patentee, but must be brought by the assignee. 4
Mason, 15. We understand the same rule has prevailed in
other circuits; and if it were now changed, it might produce much injustice to assignees who have relied on such
assignments, and defeat pending suits brought upon the faith
voL. x.
42

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

of long established judicial practice and judicial decision.
Fitzgerald sets up no claim against the assignment, and to
require another to complete the transfer -would be mere form.
We do not think the act of Congress rgquires it; but that,
when the patent issued to him, the legal right to the monopoly and property it created was, by opera~n of the assignment then on record, vested in Enos Wilder.
The next question is upon the agreement between the
defendant in error and Herring. Is this instrument an assignment to Herring for the State or city of New York,
upon which he might have sued in his own aiame? If it
is, then this action cannot be maintained by the defendant in
error.
Now the monopoly granted to the patentee is for one entire
thing; it is the exclusive right of making, using, and vending
to others to be used, the improvement he has invented, and for
-which the patent is granted. The monopoly did not exist at
common law, and the rights, therefore, which may be exercised
under it cannot be regulated by the rules of the-common law.
It is created by the act of Congress; and no rights can be
acquired in it unless authorized by statute, and in the manner
the statute prescribes.
By the eleventh section of the act of 1836, the patentee may
assign his whole interest, or an undivided part of it. But if be
assigns a part under this section it must be an undivided portion of his entire interest under the patent, placing the assignee
upon an equal footing with himself for the part assigned.
"pon such" an assignment, the patentee and his assignees become joint owners of the whole interest secured by the patent,
according to the respective proportions which the assignment
creates.
By the fourteenth section, the patentee may assign his exclusive right within and throughout a specified part of the United
States, and upon such an assignment the assignee may sue in
his own name for an infringement of his rights. But in order
to enable him to sue, the assignment must undoubtedly cohvey
to him the entire and unqualified monopoly which the patentee
held in the territory specified, - excluding the patentee himself,
as well as others. And any assignment short of this is a mere
license. For it was obviously not the intention of the legislaturc to permit several monopolies to be made out of one, and
divided among diflerent persons within the same limits. Such
a division would inevitably lead to fraudulent impositions upon
persons who desired to purchase the use of the improvement,
and would subject a party who, under a mistake as to his
right:;, used the invention without authority, to be harassed

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

495

Gayler et al. 7'. Wilder.

by a multiplicity of suits instead of one, and to successive recoveries of damages by different persons holding different portions of the patent right in the same place. Unquestionably, a
contract for the purchase of any portion of the patent right may
be good as between the parties as a license, and enforced as such
in the courts of justice. But the legal right in the monopoly remains in the patentee, and he alone can maintain an action
against a third party who commits an infringement upon it.
This is the view taken of the subject in the case of Blanchard v.
ildridge, J. W. Wallace, 337, and we think it the true one.
Applying these principles to the case before us, the action
was properly brought by the plaintiff below, and could not
have been maintained by Herring.
The agreement is singularly confused and complicated.' It
purports to grant to Herring the exclusive right, to make and
vend the Salamander safe in the city, county, and State of
New York; and Herring agrees to pay to the defendant in
error a cent a pound for every pound the safes might weigh, to
be paid monthly. But at the same time it reserves to Wilder
the right to set up a manufactory or works for making these
safes in the State of New York, provided it is not within fifty
miles of the city, and to sell them in the State of New York,
paying to Herring a cent a pound on each safe so sold within
the State.
It is evident that this agreement is not an assignment of an
undivided interest in the whole patent, nor the assignment of
an exclusive right to the entire monopoly in the State or city
of New York. It is therefore to be regarded as a license only,
and under the act of Congress does not enable Herring to
maintain an action for an infringement of the patent right.
The defendant in error continues the legal owner of the
monopoly created by the patent.
The remaining question is upon the validity of the patent
on which the suit was brought.
It appears that James Conner, who carried on the business
of a stereotype founder in the city of New York, made a safe
for his own use between the years 1829 and 1832, for the
protection of his papers against fire; and continued to use it
until 1838, when it passed into other hands. It was kept in
his counting-room and known to the.persons engaged in the
foudidery; and after it passed out of his hands, he used others
of a different construction.
It does not appear what became of this safe afterwards.
And there is nothing in the testimony from which it can be
inferred that its mode of construction was known to the person
into whose possession it fell, or that any value was attached

496

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler ot al. v. Wilder.

to it as a place of security for papers against fire; or that it
was ever used for that purpose.
Upon these facts the court instructed the jury, "that if Conner had not made his discovery public, but had used it simply
for his own private purpose, and it had been finally forgotten or abandoned, such a discovery and use would be no
obstacle to the taking out of a patent by Fitzgerald or those
claiming under him, if he be an original, though not the first,
inventor or discoverer."
The instruction assumes that the jury might find from the
evidence that Conner's safe was substantially the same with
that of Fitzgerald, and also prior in time. And if the fact was
so, the question then was whether the patentee was "the original and first inventor or discoverer," within the meaning of the
act of Congress.
The act of 1836, ch. 357, § 6, authorizes a patent where the
party has discovered or invented a new and useful improvement, "not known or used by others before his discovery or invention." And the 15th section provides that, if it appears on
the trial of an action brought for the infringement of a patent
that the patentee "was not the original and first inventor or
discoverer of the thing patented," the verdict shall be for the
defendant.
Upon a literal construction of these particular words, the
patentee in this case certainly was not the original and first
inventor or discoverer, if the Conner safe was the same with
his, and preceded his discovery.
But we do not think that this construction would carry into
effect the intention of the legislature. It is not by detached
words and phrases that a statute ought to be expbunded. The
whole act must be taken together, and a fair interpretation
given to it, neither extending nor restricting it beyond the
legitimate import of its language, and its obvious policy and
object. And in the 15th section, after making the provision
above mentioned, there is a further provision, that, if it shall
appear that the patentee at the time of his application for the
,patent believed himself to be the first inventor, the patent shall
ilot be void on account of the invention or discovery having
been known or used in any foreign country, it not appearing
that it had been before patented or described in any printed
publication.
In the case thus provided for, the party who invents is not
strictly speaking the first and original inventor. The law assumes that the improvement may have been known and used
before his discovery. Yet his patent is valid if he discovered
it by the efforts of his own genius, and believed himself to be

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

497

Gayler et aL v. Wilder.

the original inventor. The clause in question qualifies the
words before used, and shows that by knowledge and use the
legislature meant knowledge and use existing in a manner accessible to the public. If the foreign invention had been printed
or patented, it was already given to the world and open to the
people of this country, as well as of others, upon reasonable
inquiry. They would therefore derive no advantage from the
invention here. It would confer no benefit upon the community, and the inventor therefore is not considered to be entitled to the reward. But if the foreign discovery is not patented,
nor described in any printed publication, it might be known and
used in remote places for ages, and the people of this country
be unable to profit by it. The means of obtaining knowledge
would not be within their reach; and, as far as their interest
is concerned, it would be the same thing as if the improvement
had never been discovered. It is the inventor here that brings
it to them, and places it in their possession. And as he does
this by the effort of his own genius, the law regards him as the
first and original inventor, and protects his patent, although
the improvement had in fact been invented before, and used by
others.
So, too, as to the lost arts. It is well known that centuries
ago discoveries were made in certain arts the fruits of which
have come down to us, but the means by which the work was
accomplished are at this day unknown. The knowledge has
been lost for ages. Yet it would hardly be doubted, if any one
now discovered an art thus lost, and it was a useful improvement, that, upon a fair construction of the act of Congress, he
would be entitled to a patent. Yet he would not literally
be the first and original inventor. But he would be the first
to confer on the public the benefit of the invention. He
would discover what is unknown,* and communicate knowledge which the public had not the means of obtaining without~his invention.
Upon the same principle and upon the same rule of construction, we think that Fitzgerald must be regarded as the first and
briginal inventor of the safe in question. The case as to this
point admits, that, although Conner's safe had been kept and
used for years, yet no test had been applied to it, and its capacity
for resisting heat was not known ; there was no evidence to show
that any particular value was attached to it after it passed from
his possession, or that it was ever afterwards used as a place of
security for papers; and it appeared that he himself did not
attempt to make another like the one he is supposed to have
invented, but used a different one. And upon this state of the
evidence the court put it to the jury to say, whether this safe
42 *

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

had been finally forgotten or abandoned before Fitzgerald's invention, and whether he was the original inventor of the safe
for which he obtained the patenti directing them, if they found
these two facts, that their verdict must be for the plaintiff. Wve
think there is -no error in this instruction. For if the Conner
safe had passed away from the memory of Conner himself, and
of those who had seen it, and the safe itself had disappeared,
the knowledge of the improvement was as completely lost as
if it had never been discovered. The public could derive no
benefit from it until it was discovered by another inventor.
And if Fitzgerald made his discovery by his own efforts, without any knowledge of Conner's, he invented an improvement
that was then new, and at that time unknown; and it was not
the less new and unknown because Conner's safe was recalled
to his memory by the success of Fitzgerald's.
We do not understand the Circuit Court to have said that
the omission of Conner to try the -value of his safe by proper
tests would deprive it of its priority; nor his omission to bring
it into public use. He might have omitted both, and also
abandoned its use, and been ignorant of the extent of its value;
yet, if it was the-same with Fitzgerald's, the latter would not
-upon such grounds be entitled to a patent, provided Conner's
safe and its mode of construction were still in the memory of
Conner before they were recalled by Fitzgerald's patent.
The circumstances above mentioned, referred to in the opinion of the Circuit Court, appear to have been introduced as
evidence tending to prove that the Conner safe might have been
finally forgotten, and upon which this hypothetical 'instruction
was given. Whether'this evidence was sufficient for that purpose or not, was a question for the jury, and the court left it to
them. And if the jury found the fact to be so, and that Fitzgerald again discovered it, we regard him es standing upon the
same ground with the discoverer of a lost art, or an unpatented
and unpublished foreign invention, and like him entitled to a
patent. For there was no existing and living 1knowledge of
this improvement, or of its former use, at the time he made the
discovery. And whatever benefit any individual may derive
from it in the safety of his papers, he owes entirely to the
genius and exertions of Fitzgerald.
Upon the whole, therefore, we think there is no erroi in the
opinion of the Circuit Court, and the judgment is therefore
affirmed.
Mfr. Justice McLEAN.
I dissent from the opinion of a majority of the judges ini
this case. The point of difference, I think, is essential to the
maintenance of the rights of the public and also of inventors.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

499

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

It was proved by James Conner, as appears from the bill of
exceptions, "that between 1829 and 1832 he was engaged in
business as a stereotype founder, and, knowing that plaster
of Paris was a non-conductor of heat, he constructed a safe
with a douoie chest, and filled the space between the inner
and outer one with plaster of Paris; the same, substantially, as
testified to and claimed by Fitzgerald, except there was no
plaster used on the top of the safe. It was made for his own
private use in his establishment, and was used by him as a
safe from the time it was made till 1838, when it passed into
other hands. It was kept in the counting-room while he used
it, and was known to the persons working in the foundery."
This evidence was "confirmed by another witness.
By the sixth section of the patent act of 1836, it is provided, "that any person or persons having discovered or invented any new or useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition 9f matter, or any new or useful improvement on any
art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, not known
oe used by others before his o" their discovery or invention thereof," may apply for a patent, &c. The applicant is required
to "make oath or affirmation that he does verily believe that he
is the original and first inventor," &c., " and that he does not
know or believe that the same was ever before knwwn or used."
The seventh section authorizes and requires the Commissioner of Patents "to make or cause to be made an examination of the alleged new invention or discoveiy; and if on such
examination it shall not appear to the Commissioner that the
same had been invented or discovered by any other person in
this country prior to the alleged invention or discovery thereof
by the applicant, or that it had been,patented or describedin any
printed publication in this or any foreign country," &c., the
Commissioner may grant a patent.
In the fifteenth section it is provided, "that whenever it
shall satisfactorily appear that the patentee, at the time of
making his application for the patent, believed himself to be
the first inventor or discoverer of the thing patented, the same
shall not be held to be void on account of the invention or discovery, or any part thereof, having been before known or used
in any foreign country, it not appearing that the same or any
substantial part thereof had before been patented or described
in any printed publication."
From the above extracts, it is seen that the patentee must
be the inventor of the machine, or the improvement of it, or he
can have no right. If the thing was known or used by others,
he cannot claim a patent. Or if it was patented in a foreign
country, or described in ahy publication at home or in any

500

SUPREME COURT.
Gayker et al. v. Wilder.

foreign country, he has no right to a patent. To this there is
only the exception in the fifteenth section above cited. But
this can have no influence in the present case.
Let these provisions of the statute be compared with the
two last paragraphs of the charge of the court, as stated in the
third exception: "And said court further instructed the jury, that if they
found that the use made by James Conner of plaster of Paris
was confined to a single iron chest, made for his own private
use after said Fitzgerald's discovery and experiments, then it
was not in the way of Fitzgerald's patent, a~nd the same was
valid; but if the jury found that said James Conner made his
said safe, as claimed, and tested it by e:cperiments, before Fitzgerald's invention and improvement, and before he tested the
same, then said Fitzgerald was not the first inventor, as claimed, and was not entitled to said patent"
This charge stands disconnected with any other facts in the
case, except those named, and, in my judgment, it is erroneous. . If Conner's safe were identical with Fitzgerald's, and
though it was of prior invention, yet if it were not tested by
experiments before Fitzgerald's improvement, and before he
tested the same, the jury under the instruction were bound to
find for Fitzgerald. And the case was thus made to turn, not
on the priority of invention only, but upon that and the fact
of its having been tested by experiments. This introduces a
new principle into the patent law. The right under the law
depends upon the time of the invention. An experim3ntal
test may show the value of the thing invented, but it is no
part of the invention.
" The court further charged, that, independently of these
considerations, there was another view of the case, as it respected the Conner safe; that it was a question whether the
use of it by him had been such as would prevent another inventor from taking out a patent; that if Conner had not
made his discovery public, but had used it simply for his own
private purpose, and it had been finally forgotten or abandoned, such a discovery and use would be no obstacle to the
taking out of a patent by Fitzgerald, or those claiming under
him, if he be an original, though not the first, inventor or discoverer of the improvement."
If there be any thing clear in the patent' law, it is that the
original inventor means the first inventor, subject only to the
provision stated in the fifteenth section. This instruction prestipposes that the safes axe the same in principle. Now, if the
invention was patented abroad, or was described in a foreign
publication, both of which were unknown to the inventor in

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

501

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

this country, still his patent is void. So it is void if such invention has been known to any person in this country. The
instruction says, if Conner's invention "had been forgotten or
abandoned," it was no obstacle to Fitzgerald's right. Can a
thing be forgotten or abandoned that was never known? If
known before Fitzgerald's invention, it is fatal to it. By
whom must it have been forgotten? By the inventor, or the
public, or both? And how must it have been abandoned?
When an invention is abandoned, it is said to be given up to
the public, and this is the sense in which the term abandonment is used in the patent law. Such an abandonment would
be fatal to the right of Fitzgerald.
Conner's safe, as appears from the bill of exceptions, was
used in his counting-house, being accessible to every one,
some six or eigLt years. In 1838 it passed into other hands;
but into whose hands it does not appear. In 1843, Fitzgerald
obtained his patent.. How long before that he made experiments to test the inveiftion ib not proved. At most, the time
must have been less than five years. This is a short period on
which to found a presumption of forgetfulness.
The law
authorizes no such presumption. It can never become the
law. It is not founded on probability or reason. The question is, Was Conner's invention prior to that of Fitzgerald ?
That it was of older date by some ten or twelve years is
proved. And the instruction, it must be observed, was founded on the supposition that both inventions were similar.
The instruction seems to attach great importance to the fact
that Conner's safe was used only for his private purpose.
This is of no importance. The invention is the question, and
not the manner in which the inventor used it. The safe was
constructed at the foundery, and must have been known to
the hands there employed. How can it be ascertained that
Fitzgerald was not informed by some of these hands of the
structure of Conner's safe, or by some one of the many hundreds who had seen it in his counting-house in the city of
New York? It was to guard against this, which is rarely if
ever susceptible of proof, that the act is express, -if
the thin,
patented was known before, the patent is void. If the fact of
this knowledge in any one be established, it is immaterial
whether the patentee may have known it or not, it avoids his
patent.
The law, on this subject, is not founded upon any supposed
notions of equity. A foreign patent for the samd thing, or a
description of the thing in a foreign publication, is as effectual
to avoid the patent as if the patentee had seen the prior invention. Notice to him is not important. The law is adopted on.

502

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et aL v. Wilder.

a settled public policy, which, while it ig just to inventors, protects the rights of the public. Any other basis would open the
door for endless frauds, by pretended inventors, without the
probability of detection. And, especially does this new doctrine 6f forgetfulness, or abandonment, used in any other sense
than as recognized in the patent law, leaving such matters to a
jury, overturn what I consider to be the settled law on this
subject. Of the same character is the fact, that the invention
was used for private purposes. A thing may be used in that
way, and at the same time be public, as was the case with the
Conner safe, and yet the jury are necessarily misled by such
an instruction.
Mr. Justice DANIEL, dissenting.
Differing from the majority in the decision just pronounced,
I proceed to state the grounds on which my dissent from that
decision is founded.
On two essential points in this cause, it seems to me that
the learned justice who tried it at the Circuit has erred, and
that the decision here should therefore have been for a reversal
of his judgment. Those points involve, first, the right of the
plaintiff below to maintain his action upon the title or right of
action deduced from Fitzgerald through Enos and Benjamin
Wilder; and secondly, a right to or interest in the subject of the
suit on the part of the .plaintiff below, admitting that subject to
have been originally invented and used by some other person
than Fitzgerald; a right founded upon an assumption that this
subject had been used in private only, or had, in the language
of the learned justice, been "finally forgotten or abandoned"
by such first inventor. These points are presented by the first
and third exceptions of the plaintiffs in error to the rulings at the
trial below. The plaintiff in the Circuit CQurt claimed by assignment from B. G. Wilder, assignee of Enos Wilder, assignee
of Daniel Fitzgerald, alleged to have been the inventor of the
Salamander safe. By the paper deduction of title, it appears
that, on the 11th day of April, 1839, Fitzgerald, alleging that
he had invented an improvement called the Salamander safe,
for Which he was about to apply for letters patent, for the
consideration of five thousand dollars, sold the interest he
then had, or might thereafter have, in this invention, to Enos
Wilder; that Enos Wilder, on the 1st day of September,
1843, for the consideration of one dollar, assigned and transferred to the plaintiff all the right, title, and interest which he
had derived from Fitzgerald, under the agreement of the 11th
of April, 1839; that no patent issued for this Salamander safe
until the year 1843, when a patent was granted to Daniel Filz-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

503

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

gerald, as the original inventor; that no patent for this invention has ever been granted either to Enos or B. G. Wilder,
either as inventor or assignee of this safe; that the title, whatever it may be, rests upon the agreement between Fitzgerald
and Enos Wilder, of the 11th of April, 1839, before the patent
to the former.
It must be recollected, that this is an- action at law; and in
order to maintain it, the plaintiff was bound to set out and to
prove a legal title. Has he done either? 'What was the character of the interest or title transferred from Fitzgerald to Enos
"Vilder? This could not transcend the interest or title possessed by Fitzgerald himself; and what was this ? A title to
any specific machine which he may have constructed, and of
which no person could rightfully deprive him; and a claim
upon the good-will and gratitude of the community, if in truth
he should have conferred upon them a benefit by the discovery
and construction of his machine. I speak now in reference to
rights derivable from the common law; and independently of
the Constitution or of statutory provisions. The mere circumstances of inventing and constructing a machin6 could no
more inhibit its imitation, than would the structure or interior
arrangement of a house of peculiar ingenuity or convenience
prevent the like imitation by any one who could possess himself of its plan. The mere mental process of devising an invention enters not into the nature of property according to the
common law; it forms no class or division in any of its enumerations or definitions of estates or property, and is a matter
quite too shadowy for the practical character of that sturdy
system.
A doctrine contrary to this, though with some discrepancy
amongst the judges as to its extent, seems at one time to
have obtained in the King's Bench, as propounded in the case
of Millar v. Taylor, in 4 Burrow, 2305, in opposition to the
profound and unanswerable reasoning of Mr. Justice Yates;
but upon a review of the same question in.the Lords, in the
case of Donaldsons v. Becket and others, the doctrine of the
King's Bench was repudiated, and that of the common law,
as asserted by Yates, Justice, vindicated and restored. And,
indeed, if, according to the opinions of some of the judges in
the case of Millar v. Taylor, the mere mental process of invention constituted an estate or property at the common law,
and property vested in perpetuo, except so far as it should be
transferred by the owner, it is difficult to perceive the necessity of a cautious and complicated system for the investinent
and security of interests already perfect, and surrounded with
every guard and protection which is inseparable under the

SUPREME

COURT

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

common law from every right it has created or recognized.
But if the mere mental and invisible process of invention,
apart from the specific, sensible, and individual structure, can
be classed at all as property at law, it must partake of the
character of a chose in action, much more so than an obligation or contract, the terms and conditions of which are defined
and assented to by the contracting parties. To choses in
action, it can scarcely be necessary here to remark, assign.
ability is imparted by statutory enactment only, or by commercial usage. To hqld that the single circumstance of invention creates an estate or property at law, and an estate
and legal title transmissible by assignment, appears to me a
doctrine not merely subversive of the common law, but one
which contravenes the origin and course of, legislation in England in relation to patent rights, and renders useless and futile
both the constitutional provision and all the careful enactments of Congress for the security and transmissibility of the
same rights. For why, as has been already remarked, should
provision and these enactments have been made for the
establishment and security of that which was established and
safe independently of both? I hold it, then, to be true, that
the circumstance of invention invests no such perfect estate
or right of property as can be claimed and enforced at law
or in equity against the user of the same invention, either
by subsequent inventors or imitators, and that any estate or
property in the mere mental process of invention must be
traced to and deducible from the Constitution and the acts of
Co'ngress alone. I cannot but regard as mischievous and
alarming an attempt to introduce a quasi and indefinite, indefinable, and invisible estate, independently of the Constitution
and acts of Congress, and unknown to the rules and principles of the common law.
It is the patent alone which creates an estate or interest in
th' invention known to the law, and which can be enforced
either at law or in equity, either by the inventor.or by the person to whom, by virtue-of the statute, he may assign his rights.
Down to the act of Congress of 1837, nothing but the estate,
interest, or property created or inVested'by the patent itself, was
made assignable. The language of the law is, that "1every
patent," " the exclusive right under 'anypatent," " the thin pateited," may be assignable. The fact or existence of a patent
is in every instance inseparable from the right given. It is
this fact and this only which impresses the quality of assigna.
•bility. Of course, under these provisions there could be no
iransfer of the legal title previously to afpatent.
By section -sixth of the, act of Congrekis approved March

-that

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

505

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

3d, 1837, it is provided.that thereafter any patent to be issued
may be made to the assignee of the inventor or discoverer,
upon the conditions set forth in that section. Yet still it is
presumed that, until the issuing of a patent, so far is it from
being-true that a legal estate or title existed in such assignee,
it is clear, on the contrary, that no legal title existed before the
patent in the inventor himself, for it is the patent which constitute$ his title. Of course, then, the assignee can at most
hold nothing but an equity under such an assignment, which
he may insist upon under this assignment against the inventor
or against the government; blt he has no legal title by force
merely of such an assignment, and a fortiori he has no legal
title, if the patent, notwithstanding such an assignment, is in
fact issued to the inventor, but is thereby entirely excluded
from all pretension to a legal title. Thus, in the case before
us, the patent under which the plaintiff claims was, subsequently to the 'agreement between Fitzgerald and Enos Wilder, issued to Fitzgerald, the inventor, and, according to the
proofs in the cause, has never been renewed to Enos Wilder,
nor to any claimant under him, nor been assigned to any such
claimant, but remains still in the alleged inventor, Fitzgerald.
It seems to me, then, indisputable, that the legal title indispensable for the maintenance of this suit at law never was in
the plaintiff, and that he could not maintain the action.
The second instance in which I hold the learned justice who
tried this cause to have erred is that in which he instructed
the jury as follows - ",That if Conner had not made his discovery public, but had used it simply for his own private purpose, and it had been finally forgotten or abandoned, such
discovery and use would be no obstacle to the taking out of a
patent by Fitzgerald, or those claiming under him, if he be
an original, though not the first, inventor or, discoverer of the
improvement." In considering this instruction of the learned
judge, the first vice with which it appears to be affected is
its violation of a rule thought to be universally applicable to
instructionb to juries in trials at law; and that rule is this,
that instructions should always arise out of, and be limited to,
the facts or the evidence in the cause to which the questions
of law propounded from the bench should be strictly applicable; and that instructions which are general, abstract, or not
springing from, and pertinent to, the facts of the case, are calculated to mislead the jury, and are therefore improper. Tried
by thip rule, the instruction of the learned judge, so far as it relates fo Conner's not having made his discovery public, or having finally forgotten or abandoned it, is certainly irrelevant to
and unsustained by, any evidence in the record. So far is the
VOL. X.

43

sm

SUPREME COURT.
Guyler et al. v. Wilder.

existence of such testimony from being shown, the converse is
proved and is justly inferrible throughout; for although it does
not appear that Conner advertised his invention in the public
papers, or claimed a patent for it, it is admitted that he used
this safe in an extensive business establishment, to which it is
certain from the nature of, his business the public had access;
and 'it is not pretended that he made any effort at concealment
of what he had invented, and the record is entirely destitute of
evidence of an abandonment of his invention. As to the assumption of his having forgoten it, there is neither a fact, an
inquiry, nor conjecture in the testimony pointing to such a con'elusion. The instruction appears to me to be wholly gratuitous
and irrelevant. But supposing this instruction to have been
founded upon testimony introduced before the jury, let us consider for a moment its correctness as a rule of law applicable
to this cause. This charge, it must be recollected, admits that
Conner'was, or might have been, the first inventor; and, notwithstanding, asserts that Fitzgerald, though posterior in time,
might, upon the conditions and considerations assumed by the
judge, become the owner of the right. Are these conditions
warranted, either by the rules of public policy, or by the terms
a xd language of legislative provisions on such subjects ? It is
said that patent privileges are allowed as incitements to inventbions and improvements by which the public may be benefited.
This position,' that may be conceded in general, should not
be made a means of preventing the great and public purposes
its legitimate enforcement is calculated to secure. The admission of this principle leaves entirely open the. inquifies,
Whether he is more.the benefactor of the public who makes a
useful improvement which he generously shares with his fellow.ciizens, or he who studies some device whidh he denies to all,
and limits by every means in his power to a lucrative monopoly; and still more, whether the latter shall be permitted to
seize upon that. which had already (as is here admitted) been
given to the public, thereby to levy contributions, not only on
the community at large, but upon him even "who had been its
generous benefactor. It was doubtless to prevent consequences
like those here. presented, that the priority and originality of
inventions are so uniformly and explicitly insisted upon in all
The legislation of Congress, as will presently be shown. The
tendency of the learned judge's charge to mislead the jury, from
its want of precision, and its failure to define any certain predicament upon which the action of the jury should be founded,
is of itself an insuperable objection, to that charge. Thus
it is said, if Conner "had not made his discovery public2
In what mdde? it may be asked, What form of publicity did

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

5M

Gayler et aL v. Wilder.

the learned judge intend the jury should' require? It is shown
that Conner used his safe publicly; that is, he concealed it
from no one; and if any mode or kind of publication or concealment was requisite, either to establish or conclude the right
of Conner, or to conclude common right (a delinquency in the
nature of a forfeiture), surely that mode, if found either in any
statute, or in the rules of the common law, ought to have been
clearly laid down, so as to guard the rights of all. In the next
place, it is said by the learned judge, that, if Conner had abandoned this improvement which the charge admits him to have
invented, this would justify a tpatent to another who had not
known of the improvement, although a subsequent inventor.
I have always understood it to be indisputable law, that
wherever an inventor abandons or surrenders an invention or
improvement which he has certainly made, and neither claims
an exclusive right in himself nor transfers it to another, the invention or improvement is given to the public; bit by the
charge in this case, such an abandonment transfers an exclusiv'e
r4Tght to one who, by the case supposed, is admitted not to be the
first inventor. So, too, with respect to the hypothesis of the
learned judge that the invention had, or might have, been forgotten. To this the same objections of vagueness and uncertointy, and the graver objection of injustice to the real in-ventor
or to the public, are applicable. By whom and for what interval of time must this improvement have beeff forgotten, in
order to transfer it from the originator thereof'? For a term of
years? And if so, for how long a terxn? But suppose he forgets it for his lifetime, shall his executor or his posterity, upon
the exhibition of indisputable proofs of the invention, yea, the
very machine itself, perfect in all its parts and in its operation,
be cut off? This surely cannot be; but, at any rate, the jury
should have been furnished with some rule or measure of obliviousness, if this was to be made the substantive cause of
deprivation as to the original inventor, or the foundation of
right and of exclusive right in one confessedly not the first inventor. An attempt htas been made to compare the doctrine
propounded by the court to what it might be thought is the
law as applicable to the discovery, or rather recovery, of the
processes employed in what have been called the lost arts.
This illustration is in itself somewhat equivocal, and by no
means satisfactory; for if that process could certainly be shown
to be the same with bne claimed by the modern inventor, his
discovery could scarcely have the merit of originality; or be the
foundation of exclusive right. But, in truth, the illustration
attempted to be drawn from a revival of a lost art is not apposite to the present case. The term lost art is applicable pecu-

508

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

liarly to certain monuments of. antiquity still remaining in the
world, the process of whose accomplishment has been lost for
centuries, has been irretrievably swept from the earth, with every
vestige of the archives or records of the nations with whom
those arts existed, and the origin or even the identity of which
process none can certainly establish. And if a means of producing the effect we see and have amongst us be discovered,
and none can either by history or tradition refer to a similar or
to the identical process, the inventor of that means may so far
claim the merit of originality, though the work itself may have
been produced possibly by the same means. But not one principle drawn from such a state of things can be applied to a
recent proceeding, which counts from its origin scarcely a period
of fifteen years. In fine, this ruling of the learned judge is
regarded as being at war not less with the policy and objects
than it is with the express language of all the legislation by
Congress upon the subject of patent rights, which legislation has
uniformly constituted priority of invention to be the foundation
and the test of all such rights. Thus in the act of April 10th,
1790, the first patent law, (1 Stat. at Large, 109,) it is declared by the first section, "That upon the application of any
person or persons,- &c., setting- forth that he, she, or they bath
or have invented or discovered any useful art, &c., not before
known or used," &c.; and the second section of the same statute,
requiring a specification of any invention or discovery, declares
that it shall be so described "as to distinguishit from all other
things known or used.
The act of February 21st, 1793, (1 Stat. at Large, 318,)
provides, that when any citizen or citizens of the United
States shall allege that he or they have invented any "new
and useful art, &c., nwt known or used before the application" &c.
By the act of April 17th, 1800, (2 Stat. at Large, 38,) which
extends the privilege of patents to aliens, proof is required
that the art, invention, or discovery hath not been known or
used in that or any foreign country. It is true that this requisition has been so far relaxed as to admit of the patenting in
this country inventions which had, been invented and used
abroad, but with respect to this country the invention, &c.
must still be original.
In the act of July 4th, 1836, (5 Stat. at Large, 117,) reorganizing the Patent-Office, the language of the sixth section is as
follows: "That any person or persons having discovered or
'invented any new and useful art, &c., not known or used by
others before his or their discovery," &c. The'language and
import of the laws here qited are too plain to require comment,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

509

Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

and I think that the production of a single instance from the
statute-book may safely be challenged by which the requisites
above mentioned have been dispensed with. Every law, on the
contrary, has emphatically demanded originality and priority
as indispensable prerequisites to patent privileges, and eirery
aspirant to such privileges is expressly required to swear to
Athese prerequisites, as well as to establish them. These tests
ordained by the laws are not only founded upon the true reason for the privileges conferred, but they are simple and comprehensible; whereas the innovations permitted by the ruling
of the learned judge not only donflict with the true reason and
foundation of patent privileges, but tend to an uncertainty and
confusion which cannot but invite litigation and mischief. I
think that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be reversed
and the cause remanded for a venire facias de novo.
Mr. Justice GRIER also dissented.
Orde'.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec.
ord from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and
damages at the rate of six per centurn per annum.

CHARLES J. GAvLER AND LEONARD BROWN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
BENjASIN G. WILDER.
After a case has been decided, and judgment pronounced by this court, it is too late
to move to open the judgment for the purpose of amending the bill of exceptions,
upon the ground that material evidence which might have influenced the judgment
of this court was omitted in the bill.
If there was any error or mistake in framing the exception, it might have been corrected by a certiorari,if the application had been made in due time and upon
sufficient cause. But after the parties have argued the case upon the exception,
and judgment has been pronounced, it is too late to reopen it.
AT a subsequent day of the term a petition was filed by the
plaintiffs in error, that the foregoing case might be reopened for
the purpose of amending the bill of exceptions, and reargued
on such amended bill.
The petition recited certain portions of the opinion of this
court in the case relating to the Conner safe, wherein the
court, after recapitulating the evidence applicable thereto, as
43 *

510

SUPREME COURT.
Gayler et al. v. Wilder.

well as the instruction given by the court below, decide that
there was no error in such instruction, which "put it to the jury
to say, whether this safe had been finally forgotten or abandoned
before Fitzgerald's invention, and whether he was the original
inventor of the safe for which he had obtained the patent; directing them, if they found these two facts, that their verdict
must be for the plaintiff." The petition then avers, that the
existence and use of the Conner safe, from the time of its construction to the time of the trial, was proved in the court below, and that it was so stated in a bill of exceptions prepared
by the counsel of the petitioners and submitted to the court.
That the original plaintiff did not make any specific objectiofis
to petitioners' statemefnt of the evidence as to the Conner safe
(as is alleged to be the practice settled by the Supreme Co-art of
New York), but proposed a different bill of exceptions as a substitute therefor, which the court below adopted against the remonstrance of petitioners' counsel. The petition then insists
that if the facts stated in petitioners' bill of exceptions respectingthe Conner safe had been set forth substantially in any bill of
exceptions, this court, upon the principles contained in their opinionmust have determined this cause in favor of plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Coxe moved for a reargument on the grounds stated in
the petition.
Mr. Chief Justice TAIEY delivered the opinion of the courL
This case was argued early in the present term, and the judgment of the Circuit Court affirmed.
A motion is now made to open the judgment for the purpose of amending the bill of exceptions and rehearing the case,
upon the'ground that material evidence offered by the plaintiffs
in error, which might have influenced the judgment of this
court, has been omitted in the bill of exceptions contained in
the record.
If any error or mistake was committed in framing this exception, it might undoubtedly have been corrected by a certiorari,if the application had been made in due time and upon
sufficient cause. But this application is too late, even if the
evidence which the plaintiffs in error propose to introduce would
have influenced the decision. We by'no means intend to say
that it would have done so. But they rested satisfied with
the exception as it stood; made no objection to it here; and
argued the case and awaited the judgment of the court upon
the evidence as stated in the exception. After that judgment
has been pronounced, it is too late to say that the statement
-was imperfect, or erroneous, and to make a new case by the introduction of new evidence, and a new exception.
The motion is therefore overruled.

