376

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

C&h R:.436, per Walwortb, Chancellor. In Kentucky, in Brown
v. Anderson, 4 Littell; 201, and Buck v.,Holloway, 2 J. J. Marshall, 180. Nor are we aware that a contrary doctrine is held
in any State in the Union. We are therefore of opinion, that
the charge given on this point was correct, so far as the plain-tiffin error is allowed to call it in question.
Th6 next inquiry arises on the refusal of the Circuit Court
to charge the jury that the sheriff's sale made by John K.'
Walker (sheriff), in 1836, was void. The executors of Clamorgan were sued, and a recovery had against them, as executors,
-by Rufus Easton'; and the premises in dispute were sold, and
under this sale the defendant also claims title. That the lands
of the deceased debtor could be seized and sold under the judgment according to the then laws of the State of Vlissouri, we
hold to be free from doubt ; so the Supreme Court of that
State held in the. case of Landes v. Perkins (12 Mo. R.) above
referred to, and in which case all the points in controversy on
this branch of the title were discussed, and in our judgment
properly decided; the opinion there given is in conformity to
the instructions given and refused. in the court below, in this
case, and in which we hold there was io error.
There is no other question presented by the record requiring
examination, and it is therefore ordered that the judgment of
the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court 'of the United States for the District
of Missouri,* and was argued by counsel. On consideration
'whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
mosts.

THE PHILADELPHIA AND WILMINGTON RAILROAD COPANY, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company was formed by
the union of several railroad companies'which had been-previously chartered by
Maryland, Delaware, and Pennsylvania, two of which wvere the Balmore and
Port Depsit Railroad Company, whose road extended from Baltimore to the
Susquehanna, lying altogether on the west side of the river, and the Delaware and
Maryland-Railroad Company, whose road extended from the Delaware line to the
Susquehanna,
and
lying on the
side of
the river.
Cmaycnandn
eoi
Por
aira
andeast
Baltimore
charter of the
The
exemption
from taxation.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

377

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.
The charter of the Delaware and Alaryl(nd Railroad Company made the shares of
stock therein personal estate, and exempted them from any tax "except upon
that portion of the permanent and fixed works which might be in the State of
Held, that under the Maryland law of 1841 imposing a tax for State purposes upon
the real and personal property in the SQe, that part of the road of the plaintiff
which belonged originally to the'Baltimore and Fort Deposit Railroad Company,
was liable to be assessed in the hands of the company yith which it became consolidated, just as it would have been in the hands of the original company.
Also, that there is no reason why the property of a corporation should be presumed
to be exempted from its share of necessary public burdens, there being no express
exemption.
This court holds, as it has on several other occasions held, that the taxing power of
a State should never be presumed to be relinquished, unless the intention is declared in clear and unambiguous terms.
ERROR to the Court of Appeals for the Western Shore of
AIaryland.
This was an action of indebitatus assurnpsit,brought by the
defendant in error, in the Baltimore County Court, to recover
certain State taxes assessed upon the real and personal property of the plaintiff in error, being in -arford County in the
State of Iaryland.
The suit was docketed by consent, with an agreement that
a judgment pro forma should be entered for the plaintiff, now
defendant in error, upon a statement of facts. An appeal was
taken from this judgment to the Court of Appeals, where it
was affirmed pr-oforn
ma, and the present writ of error was afterwards sued out. The statement of facts was as follows.
"The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad
Company" w1-as formed by an agreement of union, duly made
and entered into between the following corporations, to wit, the
Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company, the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company, and "the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company," of
Pennsylvania. This agreement of union was made on the day
of its date, under the authority claimed under and in pursuance
of the directions of the several acts of assembly therein recited,
and was entered into after the primary meetings of stockholders,
as required by said several acts. A copy of said agreement is
herewith produced as a part of this statement, marked exabit
A. 11The Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad- Company"
was incorporated by the act of 1831, chap. 288, of the General Assembly of Iaryland; "the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company" (one of the parties to -said agreement marked exhibit A) -vas formed by an agreement of
union duly made and .entered into on the 18th day of April,
1835, between the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company
and the Wilmington and. Susquehanna Railroad Company
(of Delaware), in virtue and in strict pursuance of the several
32

878

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia and Wilmington R~ailroad Co. v. Maryland.

acts in said agreement of union recited, to wit, an act of the
General Assembly of the State of Delaware, passed on the
24th day of July, 1835, and an act of the General Assembly of
the State of Maryland, passed at December session, 1835,
,chap. 93, and was certified and recorded as directed by said
several acts. The said corporation, " the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company," was incorporated by the act of 1831,
cap. 296, of the General Assembly of Maryland;
"fthe
Wilwington and Susquehanna Railroad Company" (of Delaware)
was incorporated by an act of the General Assembly of the
State of Delaware, passed on the 18th day of January, 1832;
the
" Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company" (of Pennsylvania) was originally chartered by an act
of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, approved on the 2d day of April, 1831, by the name of the
(Philadelphia and Delaware County Railroad Company,"
which, by a supplement to said act, passed the 14th day of
March, 1836, was changed to the corporate name of the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltinore Railroad Company. The
agreement of union by which the " Philadelphia, Wilmington,
and Baltimore Railroad Company," the party to this suit, was
formed, (of which said exhibit A is a copy,) was made by authority and in pursuance of the act of the General Assembly
of Maryland, passed at December session, 1837, chap. 30, and
other corresponding acts of the General Assembly of the State
of Delaware and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, recited
in said agreement of union, marked exhibit- A. All which said
acts of assembly of the States of Maryland, Delaware, and
Pennsylvania, above referred to, or referred to in said exhibit
A, relating to the incorporation and charter of the defendant,
are to*be regarded as part of this statement, and, to save the
trouble of transcribing them, either party may read them from
the printed statutes-; to have the same effect as if they were
transcribed into this statement, or regularly certified copies of
the same filed herewith.
The railroad of the defendant extends from the city of Baltimore, in Maryland, to the city of Philadelphia, in Pennsylva.
nia, passing through the counties of Baltimore, Harford, and
Cecil, in Maryland, and thence over a part of the States of
Delaware- and Pennsylvania. That portion of said railroad
which lies wc of the Susquehanna River, that is to say, between the cit, of Baltimore and the said river, lying partly in
Baltimore County and partly in Harford County, was made and
constructed (prior to the agreement.of union of which exhibit
A is a copy), and.owned in severalty by "the Baltimore and
Port D4posit Railroad Company." That portion of said rail-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

379

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

road which lies east of the Susquehanna, and between that
river and the divisional line between the States of Delaware
and Pennsylvania, was made by the Wilmington -and Susquehanna Railroad Company, and (prior to the said agreement of
union, of which exhibit A is a copy) was owned in. severalty
by said last-mentioned company. Previous to the consolidation of" the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company" and
"the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company" (of
Delaware) into one company, the line of the road which the
said corporation, "the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company," was authorized to make, was that part of said road
which lay east of the Susquehanna, and between that river
and the divisional line between the States of Maryland and
Delaware, and that part of said road which the said corporation, "the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company"
(of Delaware), was authorized to make, is that part of said
road which lies between the divisional lines of the States of
Maryland and Delaware and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; each of said last-mentioned corporations, prior to the
consolidation, had commenced the location and construction of
their said several parts; but at the time of their consolidation
under their agreement of union aforesaid, neither part was
completed, but the, whole was completed by the Wilmington
and Susquehanna Railroad Company, after their agreement of
union' aforesaid. The River Susquehanna is passed over by
the use of a steamboat belonging to the defendant, the said
Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad ComlAny,
and used by aid defendant for the sole and exclusive purpose
of transporting persons and property across said river, from
shore to shore, from the terminus of the railroad track on the
other shore; said steamboat is especially constructed for its
use in connection with said railroad, and has rails laid on
its upper deck which are so constructed that the said rails are
placed in juxtaposition with the railroad track of the railroad
when the boat is in place for use, in connection with the terminus of the road on either shore; cars are received upon the
said deck of said steamboat from the railroad track on one
shore, and passed over the river by the said steamboat, and on
to the railroad track on the other shore from off said boat, as
the means of passing cars, &c., across the river; and prior to
the agreement of union, of which exhibit A is a copy, was
owned jointly, but in unequal parts, by the Baltimore and Port
Deposit Railroad Company and the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company, and was managed and kept in repair at the joint expense, in the proportion of their respective
interest therein, by the said last-mentiolhed two companies.

380

SUPREMP1

COURT.

Philadelphia and Wilmingtoi Railroad Co. v. Marylanc.

The said steamboat, before and since the said agreement of
union of which exhibit A is a copy, usually remained, and still
usually remains, in ,a dock constructed in the Susquehanna
River by protecting piers projecting from the Harford shore,
when not actually in use; which dock is on the west shore of
the Susquehanna River, and within the limits of Harford County. That part of said road which lies east of the divisional
line between the States of Delaware and Pennsylvania, and
thence extending to the city of Philadelphia, was, prior to the
said agreement of union of which exhibit A is a copy, constructed and owned in severalty by the said corporation, called
the Philadelphia, Wilmingto'-, and Baltimore Railroad Coinpany (of Pennsylvania). The principal office of the defendant,
(ever since the agreement of union of which exhibit A is a
copy,) for the transaction of the business of said company, has
been established and held in 'le city of Philadelphia, at the
eastern terminus of said railro
The stated meetings of the board of directors, by the terms
of said agreement of union, are to be held alternately at Wilmington and Philadelphia. There are offices at Philadelphia,
Wilmington, and Baltimord, at any one of which transfers of
stock may be made; the stated meetings of the stockholders
were to be held in the city of Wilmington. Prior to said
agreement of union, the principal office of. the Baltimore and
Port Deposit Railroad Company was held in the city of Baltimore, and the principal office of the defendant within the State
of Maryland has been, and is now, in said city, at which place
one of the vice-presidents of the said corporation resides. All
the -corporate funds and capital stock of said defendant have
been expended and contained in the location and construction
of said road, and in the construction of such works and improvements as were necessary and expedient to the proper completion and use of said road, and in the purchase of cars and
machinery of transportation, &c., necessary and indispensable
to .he completion and use of said road; and the said company has noti at any time, since the sai4 ageement of union,
owned or held, and does not now own or hold, any estate, real,
personal, or mixed, other than what forms a part of, or necessarily appertains to, the construction and completion of said
road, and its works and improvements, and in the purchase of
cars and machinery of transportation, &c., necessary and indispensable to its use; and over and beyond its actual capital, it was found necessary to raise by loan a large adaitional
amount for the purposes aforesaid, anid which amount has been
so applied. The defendant was assessed, under the act of the
General Assembly of Maryland of March session, 1841, chap.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

381

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

P3, by the assessors, appointed under said act, for Harfor!
County, with the sum of $ 127,000, as shown by a copy of said
valuation and assessment, filed herewith as a part of this statement, marked exhibit B. The several parcels or tracts of land,
valued for 200 acres at $ 10 per acre, as held and occupied by
said company from the Gunpowder Falls -to the Susquehanna
River, lie within the limits of Harford Counfy, and consist of
the land held and occupied by said company for the bed of its
railroad, water stations, depots, and ticket-offices of said company; portions of which said land were acquired under condemnations for the use of said company, under the provisions
of the said act of the General Assembly of Maryland, of December session, 1831, chap. 233, and other portions of which
were acquired by agreement with the owners thereof. The
title acquired in each case of agreement'with the owner being
consummated by deed of bargain and sale to the president and
directors of said company an heir successors, in the ordinary
terms of a conveyance in fee. The houses and other improvements on the road, and at Havre de Grace, and the depots,
ticket-offices, and water stations of said company, lie within the
limits of Harford County. The railroad track iron, within the
limits of Harford County, valued at $ 95,000 consists of the
rails actually laid down and in use as the track of said railroad
within the lirgit aforesaid. And the steam ferry-boat at Havre
de Grace, valued at $ 15,000, is the steamboat hereinbefore
mentioned, used as aforesaid for the sole and exclusive purpose
of transporting persons and property across the River Susquehanna, from 'the terminus of the railroad track 6n one shore to
the terminus of the railroad track on the other shore, ita, the
manner hereinbefore mentioned;-said steamboat is, and continually since its use as aforesaid has been,-duly enrolled and
licensed at the custom-house in Baltimore, acc6rding to the -act
of Congress. The capital stock of the defendant, under 'he
agreement of union, (of which exhibit A is a copy,) is dirided into 45,000 shares of $ 50 each, which stock is held by
various persons, many of whom reside in the State of Maryland, and others of whom, and a large majority of wh6m, reside
in other States, and in Europe, and was so held at the time of
said union. The stockholders residing in the city of Baltimore,
in Maryland, lad actually been assessed to the extent of the
stock by them respectively held, no objection being taken to
said assessment, nor any appeal prosecuted therefrom; no asgessment has -been made on the stock of any of the stockholders residing in Harford County, or Cecil County, if any reside there, nor on the stock of non-resident stockholders. It is
further admitted, that the taxes' assessed and levied upon the

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and 'Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

said property of the said defendant were for State purposes for
the years 1842, 1843, 1844, and 1845; and that the same were
assessed and levied by the commissioners of Harford County,
under the act of the General Assembly of the State of Maryland, passed at March session, 1841, chap. 23, and that the said
paper, marked exhibit B, filed as a part of this statement, is a
correct statement of the rate and amount of taxes so assessed
and levied, and that said rate of taxation is the same as that
imposed for said years upon all real and personal property (not
expressly exempted by said act of assembly) in said State. It
is further agreed, that if the court shall be oT opinion, on the
aforegoing statement, that the said property of said defendint
is liable to be assessed for taxes for general State purposes,
under the act of assembly aforesaid, that then judgment be rendered for the plaintiff for $ 1,45.5.19 and costs; but if the court
shall be of opinion that the said property of the said defendant
is not liable to be assessed and taxed as aforesaid, but the same
is exempt frbm such assessment and taxation under the charter
of the defendant, or the said act of the General Assembly of
Maryland of March session, 1841, chap. 23, then judgment to
be given for defendant.
GEO. R. RICHAIiDSON, Attorney for Plaint. .
REv.ERDY JOHNSON,

for Defendant.

Exhibit A, referred to in the aforegoing statement, is as follows, to wit: -"Agreement between the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company, the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad
Company, and the Philadelpbi- Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company.
"Copy. - Articles of union made and concluded this 5th
day of February, in the year of our Lord 1838, between the
Wilmington and Susquehanna Rtailroad Company, the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company, and the Philadelphia,
Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, by virtue and
in pursuance of an act of the General Assembly of the State
of Delaware, entitled c-A further supplement ta an Act entitled
an Act to incorporate the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company,' and of an act of the General Assembly of
Maryland, entitled ' An Act to authorize the union of the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company, the Wilmington
and ousquehanna Railroad Company, and the Philadelphia,
Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company,' and of an
act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania,'entitled 'An Act
supplementary to the Act incorporating the Philadelphia, WVilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company.'

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

383

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.
"First. The said three corporations are hereby united, and
from and after the first election of directors hereinafter provided
for in the third article shall be merged into one body corporate,
under the name and style of the Philadelphia, Wimington, and
Baltimore Railroad Company, and the stocks of the said three
corporations so united shall form one common stock, and all
the estate, real, personal, and mixed, and the rights, privileges,

advantages, and immunities belonging to each of the said corporations, become and be vested in the said body corporate,
and the debts and liabilities of each of the said corporations
shall be deemed, and are hereby declared to be, the debts and
liabilities of the said body corporate.
"Second. The stock of the said body corporate is hereby
divided into shares of fifty dollars each, of which the present
stockholders of the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad
Company are hereby declared to be entitled, in all, to sixteen
thousand shares, the present stockholders of the Baltimore and
Port Deposit Railroad Company to nineteen thousand shares,
the present stockholders of the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and
Baltimore Railroad Company to ten thousand shares, including
those forfeited heretofore, which are to be held for the use of
this corporation; and certificates of stock, as may be regulated
by the president and directors of the said body corporate, shall
be granted and issued accordingly to each of the said stockholders so soon as the said stockholders shall have paid up all
instalments due upon the shares of stock held by them respectively, and shall have surrendered the certificates previously
issued to them as stockholders in the respective companies
hereby united; and the capital stock of the said corporation
shall consist of such number of shares as aforesaid, subject to
the right and privilege of increasing the same from time to
time, according to the provisions of the respective charters of
the said companies hereby united.
"1Third. There shall be fifteen directors to manage the affairs
and business of the said body corporate, and a meeting of the
stockholders of the three corporations hereby united for the
election of the first directors shall be held at Wilmington on
Wednesday, the 14th day of February, instant, of the time
and place of which meeting notice shall be given by the present
president of the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company by advertisement in at least three newspapers, at which
meeting fifteen directors shall be elected by the said stockhold.ers, voting in person or by proxy, and each share being entitled
to one vote; and the directors so elected shall hold their offices
until the ensuing annual meeting of the stockholders, and until
their successors are elected.

84

SUPREME COURT.

Philadqlph4a and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

"Fourth. The stated meetings of the stockholders shall be
held in the city of Wilmington, on the second Monday of January in each and every year hereafter, at which time and place
an annual election of directors shall be made by the stockholders, and fifteen days' notice of the time and place of each stated
meeting shall be given by advertisement in at least three newspapers ; the election shall .e by ballot, and each share of the
stock shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote, to be given
either in person or by proxy, provided it has been held for three
calendar months before the time of voting; thie directors shall,
after the first and each subsequent election, choose by ballot
one of their own number to be president of the said body corporate, who shall serve one year, or until the election of a successor; the omission to hold an election for directbrs at the
time prescribed shall in no wise affect the said body corporate, but such election may be had upon due notice from
the said president and directors, published as aforesaid, at
any time within three months after the time so prescribed as
aforesaid.
"The directors shall hold their. offices for one year, and until
a new election shall take place, and the powers of the said
president and directors shall be the same as are now vested in
the president and directors of the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Ccmpany; the president may be removed
from his office by a vote Qf two thirds of all the directors. The
directors may, in each year that they may deem it advisable,
elect a vice-president from their own number, who, in the absence of the president, shall have all the powers of the president, and shall be liable to removal in like manner as the president. Five directors shall constitute a quorum-for the transaction of business. The directors may, if they shall deem it
advisable, appoint an execative committee, consisting of six
members, from the States of Pennsylvania, Delaware, and
Maryland, for such time, and for the performance of such duties, as any resolutions of the directors, or any by-law, may
prescribe and assign; and the president, or vice-president, and
any two members of said committee, shall constitute a quorum
thereof. All-officers and agents of the corporation, other than
directors, shall be appointed by the directors, who may prescribe
and exact such security as they may deem proper for the performance of their duties.
"Fifth. The stated meetings of -the board of directors shall
be held alternately at Wilmington and Philadelphia, and special
meetings may be held either at Wilmington, Philadelphia, or
Baltimore. Trhe corporation shall have offices opened at Wilmington, Philadelphia, and Baltimore, at either of which trans-

385

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

fers of stock may be made, under such regulations as the board
of directors may prescribe.
"Sixth. All by-laws shall be made, altered, or repealed only
by a majority, coasisting of not less than-two thirds of all the
directors; it being understood that no by-law shall contravene
any of these terms or stipulations; and the existing by-laws of
the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company shall,
until altered or repealed as aforesaid, be the by-laws of this
corporation; and all rules and regulations necessary for the
management and conduct of the business of the company, not
provided for in a by-law, may be made by the directors.
"In witness whereof, the said corporations, parties to this
agreement, have caused their respective corporate seals, attested
by the.signatures of their respective presidents, to be hereunto
affixed, the day and year first herein before written.
JAMES PRICE,

[L. S.]

Pres. Wilrn. and Susq'a Railroad Co.
L.s.]
J. I. COHEN, JR.,
Pies. Balto. and Port Deposit Railroad Co.
M. NEwcKI,

[L s.]

Pres.Philod,, Wiln., and Balto. Railroad Co.
"In pursuance of the provisions of an act of the General Assembly of Maryland, entitled ' An Act to authorize the union
of the Baltimore and Port Deposit Rdilroad Company, the Wilinington and Susquehanna Railroad Company, and the Philadelphia, Wilminton, and Baltimore Railroad Company,' said
corporations do hereby certify, under their respective corporate
seals, attested by their respective presidents, that the within and
foregoing instiument of writing is a true copy of an agreement
for the unioii of the said company, made and concluded on the
5th day of February, A. D. 1838.

ICE,

[L.

]

Pres. Wilm. and Susq'a Railroad Co.
J. I. CoHErN, JR.,
[.. S.]
Pres. Balto. and Po f Deposit Railroad Co.
T/L I ,EwKIRK,

[L. s.]

Pres.PMilad., IVilm., t ,zdBalto. Railroad Co.
"Received to be recorded the 12th day of February, 1838, at
5 o'clock, P. AL; same day recorded and examined.
Per THOMAs KELL, Clerk.
"In testimony that the aforego:ng is a true copy, taken from
liber T K, No. 276 folio 392, &c., one of the land records
[L. S.] of Baltimore County, I hereto subscribe my name and
affix the seal of Baltimore County Court, this 3d day of
December, 1846.
A. '%V. BRADFORD, Clerk of Ballo. Co. Court."
voL. X.

33

386

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

Exhibit B, referred to in said statement, is as follows, to
wit: "A list of the real and personal property of the Philadelphia,
Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, as per the assessors' books on file in the- office of the Commissioners of
Harford County, on which taxes are due for the years of 1842,
1843, 1844, and 1846, to wit: Different tracts of land, from the Gunpowder Falls to
the Susquehanna, containing 200 acres, at $ 10 per
$2,000

acre,

Track iron, &c., &c.,

.

.

95,000

...

Houses and other improvements on the'road, and at
Havre de Grace,

.

..

.

Steamboat at Havre de Grace,

.

15,000

.

15,000

.

$127,000
"I hereby certify, that the above is a true transcript of the
property of the Railroad Company from the assessors' books.
"Given under my hand and seal of the Commissioners of
Harford County, this
1842. To State tax on $127,000, at 25 cents per $100, $ 317.60
Commission at 1-,.
Interest for three years,

.
.

.

.
.

19.05
60.57

1843. To State tax on the same, at 25 cents per $100,. 317.60
22.22
Commission at 1 , .
..
40.76
Interest for two yfars,
...
317.60
1844. To State tax on the above, 25 cents per $100,
Commission at 1j,

Interest for one year,

.

.

22.22
20.38

.

317.50

.

1845. State tax on the above, 25 cents in $100,
"JAMES

SPICER,

.

$1,455.19
Collector."

It is agreed that any errors in the foregoing statement may
be corrected by counsel, at the trial of the cause, either in the
County Court, Court of Aopeals," or Supreme Court of the
United.States; and that said statement may be added to-or
amended, by agreement, at any timd.
GEOROE R. RICHARDSON, Attorny for Plaintiff.
REVEruRY JOHNspN, for Defendant.

The following is a summary of the act imposing the tax, as

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

387

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

well as of the acts incorporating the different ctmpanies, so
far as they bear upon the question before the court.
The first section of the act of 1st April, 1841, imposing the
tax sought to be rscovered, after enumerating the several kinds
of property which are to be the subject of taxation, including
"all stocks or shares, owned by residents of this State, in any
bank, institution, or company incorporated in any other State or
Territory," also "all stocks or shares in any bank, institution,
or company incorporated by this State," declares that such
"and all other property of every description whatsoever shall
be valued agreeably to the directions of this act, and shall
be chargeable according to such valuation with the public
assessment: provided," &c.
The ninth section makes it the duty of the assessor to inform himself of all property liable to assessment, and to make
a return thereof under prescribed heads, the fifth of which was,
"Bank stocks and other stocks particularly specified, with their
respective values2
The sixteenth section provided, that, for the valuing of stock
in private corporations held by non-residents, the locality of
such stock should be deemed to be at the place where the
principal' place of business of such corporation should be
situate.
The seventeenth section enacted that the president or proper
officers of corporations should make out and deliver to the
assessors of the proper county an account of 'stock in such
corporation.
The forty-fifth section made it the duty of the levy court or
commissioners cf the several counties to impose a tax of
twenty cents in every $ 100 of assessable property, according
to their valuation.
The fifty-third section provided that the tax imposed "shall
be collectable and payable into the State treasury according
to the provisions of this act, an be in all respects subject
thereto."
The second section of the act of 1831, oh. 288, entitled "An
Act to incorporate the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad
Company,"* enacted that "the subscribers of the said stock,
their successors and assigns, shall be, and they are hereby declared to be, incorporated into a company, by the name of the
Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company, and by that
name shall be capable in law of purchasing, holding, s&lling,
leasing, and conveying estates, real, personal, and mixed, so far
as shall be necessary for the purposes hereinafter mentioned,
and no further, and shall have perpetual succession, and by
said corporate name may sue and be sued."

SUPREME

COURT.

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

The twelfth section gave authority to construct a road one
hundred feet wide rfrom the City of Baltimore to Port Deposit, &c.
The twentieth section declared that "the shares of the capital stock of said company shall be deemed and considered personal estate."
. The act of 1831, ch. 296, entitled "An Act to incorporate
the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company," gave a per.
petual charter, and authorized the construction of a road one
hundred feet wide "from some point on the Delaware and
Maryland line" "to Port Deposit, or any other point on the
Susquehanna River."
.
The nineteenth section, after giving authority to purchase
property, charge tolls, &c., and declaring that the property
specified should be vested in said company and their successors for ever, proceeds: "And the shares of the capital stock of
said company shall be deemed and considered personal estate,
and shall be exempt from the imposition of any tax or burden
by the State's assenting to this law, except upon that portion
of the permanent and fixed works of said company which
may lie within the State of Maryland; and that any tax which
shall hereafter be levied upon said section shall not exceed the
rate of any general tax which may at the same time be imposed upon similar real or personal property of this State for
State purposes."
The act of 14th March, 1836, ratifies and adopts the act
of the General Assembly of Delaware, passed 24th July, 1835,
which provided for the union of the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company (incorporated by the General Assembly of Maryland) into one company, to be styled "the
Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company," and which
also provided that "the holders of the stock of the said railroad companies, so united as aforesaid, shall hold, possess, and
enjoy all the property, rights, and privileges, and exercise all
the power granted to and' vested in the said railroad companies, or either of them, by this or any other law or laws of this
State, or of the State of Maryland."
The act of 1837, ch. 30, authorizes the union of the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company, and the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company, with the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, and provides that said "body corporate so formed shall be entitled within this State to all the powers and privileges and advantages
now belonging to the two first above-named corporations."
The cause was argued by Mr. Veredith, for the defendant

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

389

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

in error, and submitted on printed points by _31r. Reverdy Johzsoni, for the plaintiff in error.
111r. Xleredith, for defendant in error.
It will be contended by the defendants in error, 1st. That the property assessed for the State taxes, for the
recovery of which this suit was brought, was, at the time of
said assessment, liable to State taxation. Laws of Maryland,
larch Session, 1841, oh. 23; McCulloch v. State of Maryland,
4 Wheaton, '436; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters,
663, 564; Passenger Cases, 7 Howard, 402;- Nathan v. State
of Louisiana, 8 Howard, 80; Battle v. Corporation of Mobile,
9 Alabama, 234; Howell v. State of Marylandi, 3 Gill, 14.2dly. That the property so assessed was not exempted from
taxation by any contract or agreement binding on the State
of Maryland. Laws of Maryland, 1831, oh. 288; 1831, oh.
296; 1835, ch. 93; 1837, ch. 80; Providence Bank v. Billings,
4 Peters, 514; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11
Peters, 420; McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Wheaton,
436; Bullw v. City Council, 1 Nott & McCord, 527; Angel
and Am~s on Corporations, 435, 459, 462, 467, and cases referred to; Blatchfoid v. Mayor of Plymouth, 3 Bingham, N. C.
691; Dwarris, on Statutes, 9 Law Library, 50 et seq.; Kirby
v. Potter, 4 Vesey, 751; Wildman v. Wildman, 9 Vesey, 177;
Rtawlins v. Jennings, 13 Vesey, 45; Page v. Leapingwell,
18 Vesey, 467; Reed v. McGrew, 5 Hammond, 380; Pembroke v. Duxbury, 1 Pic.-ering, 199.
There are several questions which might be raised in the
court below, but which would not be properly raised here. The
only question is that which gives this court jurisdiction.
The Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company had
granted to them a perpetual charter, without any bonus to the
State. But the charter contained no exemption from State
taxation.
The act of 1831, ch. 296, gave to the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company a perpetual charter. The nineteenth
section declares that the shares of the capital stock shall be
considered personal estate. There is obscurity in this sectiori.
The object would seem to have been to convert the shares
into personal estate in order to subject them to execution,
Maryland not having passed any law till after this charter subjecting stocks, &c., to execution. The same section also declares, that such shares shall be exempt from the imposition of
any tax, &c. It would seem from this that the legislature
meant to exempt stock in the hands of the stockholders. Then
comes the exception, that thl- legislature reserves the right to
33*

390

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

tax the permanent and fixed works of the company, which
would indic6ate that every thing else was exempted. And yet
that would be a grant of an exemption by implication, there
being no express words.
The plaintiffs claim an exemption which was not originally
granted to them, but was granted to another company, which
was subsequently merged in the present company. How was
this exemption transferred?
The act of 1835, chap. 93, incorporates the legislation of Delaware on the same subject. That act creates a new corporation. In 1837, when the last union was asked for, Maryland
provided that the three corporations should be merged in and
form one body corporate, and that it should have all the powers, privileges, and advantages of the two former companies,
namely, the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company,
and the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company.
Now the only exemption which could be transferred was that
of the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company, (because
the other company had no exemption,) which had been merged
in the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company.
But the exemption of the former was gone necessarily, because
if'was only the stock of that company which was exempted.
The moment, then, the stock was destroyed by the merger of
that company in another, or, the transfusion or intermingling
of it with that of the other companies, its distinctive character was, destroyed. Reed v. McGrew and Pembroke v. Duxbury are full to the point. And in the Charles River Bridge
case- this court held, that, by the charter to the Charles River
Company, the franchise which had originally existed in Harvard
College was extinguished. So .here, by these new charters, the
original exemption was extinguished.
But suppose it to have been transferred, how will it avail
the present company? The property here assessed was not
that which originally belonged to the Delaware and Maryland
Company, but -to the Baltimore and Port Deposit Company,
which latter had, as I have shown, no exemption at all.
The only doubt is as to the steamboat. But it has been decided that a tax of this kind does not interfere with the regulations of commerce. It does not appear that this steamboat
ever belonged to the exempted company. On the contrary,
from .the kinds of property authorized by the charter, it would
seem otherwise. The charter was to construct a road from
the divisional line to the Susquehanna River, and no farther.
The property to be used was such as was required for this
road, not for crossing the river.
on constat, then, that this
steamboat ever belonged to the exempted company.

DECEMBER T.ERM, 1850.

391

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

ri. Johnson, for the plaintiff in error.
The only question is, whether, by contract between the plaintiff in error and the State, the plaintiff was not exempt from
the taxation, the amount of which it was the purpose of the
suit to exact.
The judgment being against the plaintiff in
error, who claimed the exemption under the alleged contract,
and its protection under the Constitution of the Tjnited States,
it must be reversed if their ground can be maintained.
First, Wras there a contract, and second, Is it impaired by,
the tax in question ?
This is to be ascertained by referring to the several acts
of Maryland, vnder which the plaintiff's franchise is held. If
these contain the contract relied upon, the point is made out.
That a State may contract in the form of a legislative act, and
so as to deprive her,-f in a particular instance of the right to
exercise her taxing power, are not now open questions. It is
the settled doctrine. Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4
Wheaton, 518; New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164.
Is there, then,*such a contract in this case ?
Before the present company existed, the right to make the
road from Baltimore to Philadelphia was in various companies,
chartered for certain portions of the road, by Maryland, Delaware, and Pennsylvania. These, by an agreement authorized
by laws of the game States, were united into one on the 5th of
February, 1838, under the name of the plaintiff in error; the
agreement is in the record.
By the terms of this association, and the several acts legalizing it, it will be seen that all the privileges and exemptions
possessed by any one of the companies under its own charter
became vested in the united body, and coextensive with the
entire route of the road.
The act of Maryland of 1831, chap. 288, contains the exemption from taxation upon which reliance is placed. The tax
levied is not on the real or fixed property only, owned by plaintiff in error, and being within the limits of Harford County,
but upon the iron rail, &c., and the steamboat at Havre de
Grace.
The land is taxed, and also three other items; this, it is submitted, is a clear violation of the exemption referred to. That
the exemption, but for its qualification in the section making
it, would have embraced the entire- property, real and personal,
of the company, is perfectly clear. The question then is, Was
it the object of the qualification to take out of the exemption
any thing else than the new land? It is submitted, that the
rail-track, iron and wooden, and the stea'mboat, are the fixed
property, within the meaning of the exemption. To give it

32SUPREME

COURT.

Philadelphia ind Wilmington Rtailroad Co. v. Maryland.

that interpretation, would be to make the exemption annul the
entire section, and render the exemption altogether nugatory.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error is a corporation composed of several
railroad companies- which had been previously chartered by the
States of Maryland, Delaware, and Pennsylvania; and which,
by corresponding laws of the respective States, were united together, and form one corporation under the name and style of
the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company. The road of this corporation extends from Philadelphia to Baltimore.
One of the companies which now forms a part of this corporation was originally the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company, and was chartered by Maryland by an act
passed in 1831, chap. 288. The road constructed by this company extended from Baltimore to the Susquehanna, lying altogether on the west side of the river.
The Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company was another of the original corporations, and was also chartered by
Maryland by the act of 1831, chap. 296. It extended from the
Delaware line to the Susquehanna, and lies on the east side of
the river.' This company was afterwards, by the act of 1835,
chap. 93, and a corresponding law passed by the State of Delaware, united with the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad
Company, .which had been previously chartered by Delaware;
the two companies when united taking the corporate name v:
the latter.
Afterwards, by an act of Assembly of Maryland, of 1837,
chap. 30, and corresponding laivs passed by Delaware and
Pennsylvania, the last-mentioned company, together with the
Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad Company, was authorized to unite witf the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore
Railroad Company, which had been previously chartered in the
States where it was situated; and these united companies were
incorporated into one, under the name and style of the lastmentioned company, and the corporation thus formed is the
*plaintiffin error.
In 1841, since the union of these companies, an act of Assembly of Maryland was passed, imposing a tax for State purposes upon the real and personal property in the State. Under
this law, the portion of the road which belonged to the Baltimore and Port Deposit road, before the union last above
mehfioned, has been assessed as a part of the taxable property
ini the State, in the manner set forth in the schedule contained
in the record. It is admitted that it has been assessed at the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

393

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

same rate with that of individuals, and as prescribed by the
law.
The question submitted to this court is, whether this property
of the plaintiff in error is liable to be so taxed, under the grants
contained in the different charters above referred to.
The charter of the Baltimore and Port Deposit Railroad declared that the property in this road when constructed should
be vested in the company, and that the shares of the company
should be deemed and considered as personal property. But
there is no provision in the law exempting its stocks or its
property, real or personal, from taxation. And certainly there
is no reason why the property of a corporation should be presumed to be exempted, or should not bear its share of the
necessary public burdens, as well as the property of individuals. This court on several occasions has held, that the taxing power of a State is never presumed to be relinquished, unless the intention to relinquish is declared in clear and unambiguous terms. In the act incorporating this company, there
is nothing from which such an inference could possibly be
drawn; and, standing upon this charter alone, the tax was
without doubt lawfully imposed.
Neither can such an inference be drawn from any thing contained in the subsequent law by which this company became
finally consolidated with the plaintiff in error. It remained a
separate corporation, without any alteration in its charter in
this respect, until the union was formed by the act of 1837. It
was situated altogether in the State of Maryland. The Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company was partly. in
Maryland and partly in Delaware, and owed its existence to a
separate charter. And the law which authorizes these two
companies to unite themselves with the plaintiff in error declares that this new corporation, that is, the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, shall be entitled
within this State to all the powers and privileges and advautages at that time belonging to these two companies. It grants
it nothing more.
Now, as these companies held their corporate privileges under different charters, the evident meaning bf this provision is,
that whatever privileges and advantages either of them possessed should in like manner be held and possessed by the
new company, to the extent of the road they had respectively
occupied before the union ; that it should stand in their place,
and possess the power, rights, and privileges they had severally
enjoyed in the portions of the road-which had previously belonged to them. And this intention is made still more evident
by the fourth sbetion of the law, which makes the new corpo-

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

ration responsible for the contracts, debts, obligations, engagements, and liabilities at law or in equity of the several companies, and declares that it shall hold and be entitled to all the
estate, real, personal, and mixed, choses in action, &c., belonging "to or due to the several companies. The plaintiff in error,
therefore, took the property of the Baltimore and Port Deposit
Railroad Company with all the liabilities to which it wa' subjectin the hands of that company.
The act which incorporated the Delaware and Maryland
Railroad provided that the shares in that company should be
deemed and considered personal estate, and should .beexempt
from any tax or burden, "except upon that portion of the permanent and -fixed works which might be in the State of Maryland.'
And the law of 1835, which authorized the union of
this company with the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Companyf secured to the united company the property,
rights, and privileges which that lav or other laws conferred on
them or either of them. The original exemption, therefore, of
the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company, as far as it
went, was extended to the Wilmington and Susquehanna
Railroad Company, and has been continued to the plaintiffs in
error. But as the right of taxation on that part of the road is
not in question in this suit, we forbear to express an opinion
upon it. For if this restriction could be supposed to exempt
from taxation the description of property enumerated in the
schedule, or any part of it, it could not affect the question before us. The provisions of this charter have never been extended to the portion of the road on the west side of the river, which
was constructed under the charter of the Baltimore and Port
Deposit Railroad. As that company held it, so it is now held
by the plaintiff in error, with the same privileges, powers, and
liabilities. And as the prpperty assessed was liable to taxation in the hands of the original corporation, it is equally
liable in the hands of the company with which it is now consolidated.
The judgment must therefore be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the iteord from the Court of Appeals for the We'stem Shore of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
.judgmen' of the said Court of Appeals in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages at the
rate of six p~r centum per annum.

