DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

557

St. John v. Paine et al.

should be surveyed; there is no identity of place, nor a po~sibility to locate the grant by survey. No claim has ever been
before this court that is more vague.
In cases of a vague description, this court has uniformly
held that no particular land was severed from the public domain by the grant, and that no survey could be ordered by the
courts of justice. Buyck v, 13. States, 15 Peters, 224; U.
States v. Delespine, 15 Peters, 333; U. States v. Miranda,
16 Peters, 156, 157.
On all the grounds presented, we are of opinion that the
court below decided correctly in rejecting this claim; and it
is therefore ordered, that the decree of the District Court be
affirmed,
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Superior Court for the District of East Florida,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration -whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said Superior Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed.

EDWARD B. ST. JOHN, CLADIANT OF THE STEAMBOAT NEPTUNE, ApPELLANT, V.' ZEBULON A. PAINE, SARAH NORWOOD, JOHN BucKNAI, ANDREW BRADFORD, AND AUGUSTUs NORTON, LIBELLANTS.

The following are the rules which ought to govern vessels when approaching each
other -

1. Of Sailiny "'Vssds.-A vessel that has the wind free, or sailing before or with
the wind, must get out of the way of the vessel that is close-hauled, or sailing by
or against it i and the vessel on the starboard tack has a right to keep her course,
and the one on the larboard tack must give way, or be answerable for the consequences.
So, when two vessels are approaching each other, both having the wind free, and
consequently the power of readily controlling their movements, the vessel on the
larboard tack must give way, and each pass to the right. The same rule governs
vessels sailing on the wind, and approaching each other, when it is doubtful which
is to windward.
But if the vessel on the larboard tack is so far to windward that, if both persist in
their course, the 'other will strike her on the lee siae, abaft the beam or near the
stern, in that case the vessel on the starboard tack should give way, as she can
do so with greater facility and less loss of time and distance than the other.
When vessels are crossing each other in opposite directions, and there is the least
doubt of their going clear, the vessel on the stay Ioard tack should persevere in her
course, while that on the larboard tack should bear up or keep away before the
wind.
These rules have their exceptions in extreme cases, depending upon the special circumstances of the case, and in respect to Aict no general rule can be laid down

47 *

558

SUPREME COURT.
St. John v. Paine et al.

or applied. Either vessel may find herself in a posen at the time when it would
be impossible to conform to them, without certain peril to herself or a collision
Under such circumstances, the master must neceswith
sarilythe
be approaching
thrown uponvessel.
the resources of his own judgment and skill in extricating
frombethe
impending
his own
vessel,
as be
wellanticipated,
as the vessel
These
cases
cannot
and approaching,
therefore cannot
provided
for byperil.
any
They can only be examined, and the management of the vessel
approved or condemned,
as the case may arise.
fixed regulation.

2. Of Steam- Vessels meeting Sailing Vessels. - Steam-vessels are regarded in the
light of vessels navigating with a fair wind, and are always under obligations to
do whatever a sailing vessel going free or with a fair wind would he required to

do under similar circumstances. Their obligation extends still farther, because
they possess a power to avoid the collision not belonging to sailing vessels, even

the by
master
having
steamerAs
under
his command,
both by
alwith
freehelm
wind,and
teringa the
stopping
the the
engines.
a generavrule,
therefore,
when

meeting a sailing vessel, whether clse-haled or with the wind free, the latterhas
a right to keep her course, and it is the duty of the steamer to adopt such precan-

tions as will avoid her.
3. Of teamaers meetingback. oter.-It is the duty of each vessel to put the helm
a-port.
4. Of/ eeping Watck. - The pilot-house of a steamer is not the proper place at
wnich to station a wath at night. a
competent and vigilant look-out stationed
at the forward part of the vessel, and in a position best adapted to descry vessels
approaching at the earliest moment, is indispensae to
e
te steamboat
from blame, in case of accident in the night-time, while navigating waters on
which it is accustomed to meet other craft.
The owner is responsible for damage resulting not only from want of care and attention on the part of the persons in charge of the vessel, but also from the want of
proper knowledge and skill to enable them to manage her according to established nautical rules-

THIS was an appeal from the

ircuit Court of the United

States for the Southern District of New York.
The circumstances of the case will be best explained by

in.

serting the libel and answer, which were as follows.
"~To the H:onorable Samuel R. Betts, Judge of the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York.
"4The li0el and complaint
of aeu erA. n eof Eastport
e
in the State of Maine, owner of one half partof the schooner
ole, and owner of
of the cargo lately shipped on board
thereof; Sarah Norwood of Eastport, in the State of Maine,

aforesaid, owner ofethe
ithe hprm o he said schooner;
John Bucknam, owneret o r f the cargo lately shipped on
board thereof; Andrew Bradford, owner of part of the cargo
also lately shipped on board
thereof; Joseph Sumner, master
of the said schooner; James
mcCollar, mate thereof; Ambrose
Tucker, James Woorster, seamen, and Henry Cuil cook, all

of said schooner; and Augustus Norton of Eastport, a passenger on board of the said schooner, against the steamboat
Neptune, all parties intervening for their interest in the same,
in a cause of civil and maritime jurisdiction.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

559

St. John v. Paine et al.

"And thereupon the libellants allege and propound respectively upon and according to their -respective best knowledge,
information, and belief, as follows
"1st. That the said schooner Iole, belonging and owned in
Eastport aforesaid, whereof the said Joseph Sumner was
master, on or about the 7th of July, 1846, set sail and departed from the port of Eastport, in the Staie of Maine,
aforesaid, with the said Joseph Sumner as master, having on
board of said schooner a cargo consisting of laths, pickets,
plaster, fish in barrels, thirty empty barrels, and two barrels of
beer, and two packages of money, bound for the port of
New York; and that the said schooner was then tight, stanch,
and strong, and well manned, tackled, apparelled, and appointed, and was, in every respect, fit for the voyage she so
undertook.
"2d. That in the evening of the 14th day of July, aforesaid, the said schooner, with three passengers, and with the said
cargo on board, had successfully proceeded in and upon her
said voyage past and about one mile to the south of the lightboat stationed off the Middle Ground, a shoal nearly opposite
to Stratford Point, and that the said schooner passed the lightboat, being ibout one mile to the southward thereof.
11That the said schooner was then steering about a west
course, the wind being nearly from the north; that the night
was clear, and the said vessel could be easily discerned at a
considerable distance; that whilst sailing upon her course,
about west, with a fresh wind, going at from six to eight knots
per hour, and.a short time after the said schooner had passed
the said light-boat, and between the hours of nine and ten
o'clock at night, on the high seas, and within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction of this court, she was negligently
run against and into, by the said steamboat Neptunef which
steamboat was then and there proceeding down the Sound
from the city of New York; and the said steamboat then 'and
there run and struck against the hull of the said schooner,
between the fore and main rigging, on her larboard side, with
such great force and violence as to break and tear open the hull
of the said schooner, and cut her nearly in two, so that she filled
and sunk almost immediately; and the said vessel and her cargo,
and the clothes, money, and personal effects of the crew and
passengers, were totally lost; and two of the passengers, viz.
a female named MvIurphy, and her child, were drowned.
"3d. That the crew of said schooner and one 6f the passengers, viz. the libellant Augustus Norton, saved their lives by*
jumping from the said schooner on to the deck of the said
steamboat; that they made inquiries for the captain of the

560

SUPREME COURT.
St. John r. Paine et al.

said steamboat, but could find no captain on board; that they
asked those on board of said steamboat to despatch a boat
with assistance, to endeavor to save the lives of the woman
and child aforesaid; but that, no assistance being offered or
given, two of the crew of the said schooner, with two of the
passengers of the steamboat, took the small boat of the said
steamboat, and went in search of the 'said female and child,
but that their efforts were unavailing, the said schooner having
sunk, and the said female and child having disappeared.
"4th. That the said steamboat, was at the time aforesaid
carelessly, improperly, and unskilfully -navigated, and that the
loss of the said schooner, with the cargo on board thereof, and
the clothes, money, and effects of the crew and passengers,
and the lives of the said female and child, was occasioned
solely by the fault, carelessness, and unskilful management of
the said steamboat. That the cro-w, and those .having the
control and management of the said steamboat, as your libellants are informed and believe, were inexperienced in the command of the said steamboat, and Were incompetent, unskilful,
and insufficient, or else were careless and negligent, and by
their want of*skill, or carelessness and negligence, occasioned
the said disaster, without the fault of the said schooner and
her crew. That Long Island Sound, where the disaster occurred, is very wide, and there was ample room for the said
steamboat to have passed and avoided the said schooner without any difficulty whatever.
"5th. That the said schooner or vessel, called the Iole, her
tackle, apparel, and furniture, at the time of the said collision,
was of the value of three thousand dollars or thereabouts, and
was owned and possessed as follows; that is to say, the libellant Zebulon A. Paine was the owner of one equal half part
thereof, and the libellant Sarah Norwood was the owner of the
other half part thereof.
"6th. That the libellant Zebulon A. Paine was at the time
of the said collision the owner of two hundred thousand laths,
4900 pickets, and 1725 S pickets, thirty-five tons of plaster,
and thirty-nine barrels of fish, shipped by him on board of the'
said schooner upon the said voyage, which were of the value
of five hundred and fifty dollars, or thereabouts, and which
cargo so shipped by him was totally lost by the said collision.
"7th. That the libellant John Bucknam was at the time of
the said collision the owner of thirty-six barrels of pickled fish,
which he had shipped at Eastport aforesaid, on board of the
said schooner, and which was totally lost by the said collision,
and which last-mentioned cargo was of the value of one
hundred and seventeen dollars or thereabouts.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

561

St. John v. Paine et aL

"8th. That the libellant Andrew Bradford was at the time of
the said collision owner of thirty empty beer-barrels, and two
barrels containing beer, which he had shipped on board of the
said schooner at Eastport aforesaid, to *be carried to New
York, and which last-mentioned cargo was totally lost by the
said collision.
"9th. That the libellants Zebulon A. Paine and Sarah Norwood have also lost, in consequence of the said collision, the
freight and passage money which the said schooner would
have earned upon the delivery of said cargo in New York,
and have been deprived of the use and employment of the
said schooner, and have been interrupted in. their business and
mercantile pursuits, to their great loss and damage.
"10th. That the libellant Joseph Sumner saith, that he was
the owner of, and had on board of the said schooner at the
time of the collision aforesaid, and totally lost, the articles, property, and effects enumerated and specified in the schedule hereto
annexed, marked A, which he prays may be taken as a part
thereof; which articles, property, and effects are truly valued
in the said schedule.
" That the libellant James McCollar saith, that he had on
board, and was the owner of, at the time of the said collision,
and 'totally lost, the articles, property, and effects specified in
schedule B, hereto annexed, and which he prays may be taken
as a part of this libel, and that the value of said several articles
is truly set forth therein. That the libellant Ambrose Tucker
saith, that he was the owner of, and had on board of the said
schooner at the time aforesaid, and totally lost, the property
and effects specified, and being of the value stated, in schedule
C, hereto annexed, and which he prays may be taken as a part
of this libel. That the libellant James Woorster saith, that he
wap at the time of the said collision the owner of, ani had on
board the said schooner, and totally lost by the said collision,
the property and effects specified and being of the value stated
in the schedule hereto annexed, marked D, and which he prays
may be taken as a part of this libel. That the libellant Henry
Cuff saith, that he was the owner of, and had on board of the
said schooner at the time of the collision aforesaid, and totally
lost, the articles mentioned in the schedule hereto annexed,
marked E, being of the value therein stated, and which schedule he prays may be taken as a part of this libel. That the
libellants Joseph Sumner, James AlcCollar, Ambrose Tucker,
James Woorster, and Henry Cuff, were sailing in and on board
of the said schooner, on monthly wages, and that they have
been thrown out of employ and put to much expense and
loss.

562

SUPREME COURT.
St. John v. Paine et al.

" That the libellant Augustus Norton saith, that he was a
passenger on board of said schooner, and that he was the owner
of, and had on board at the time of the said collision, the property and effects specified in schedule F, hereto annexed, and
which he prays may be taken as a part of this libel; and that
the said property and effects are truly valued in the said schedule, and they were wholly lost to him, and that in consequence
he is now destitute, having saved nothing but one shirt, and
that he has suffered great inconvenience, anxiety, and delay by
reason of the said loss.
"11th. That after information of the loss of the said
schooner and her cargo, as aforesaid, was received in New York,
the libellants' agents in said city caused application to be made
to George Law, who, as they are informed and believe, was at
the time of the said collision the owner of the said steamboat,
to pay the damages which the steamboat had improperly, carelessly, and negligently occasioned as aforesaid, but that he refused to comply with such request.
"12th. That all and singular the matters aforesaid are true,
and within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of this honorable court, and that the said vessel, her tackle, apparel, &c.,
is within the district, and in verification thereof, if denied, the
libellants crave leaveto refer to the depositions and other proofs
to be by them exhibited in this cause.
"Wherefore the libellants pray, that process in due form of
law, according to the course and practice of courts of admiralty, and of this honorable court in causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, may issue against the said steamboat
Neptune, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and that-all persons
having or pretending to have any right, title, or irterest therein
may be cited to appear and answer upon oath all and singulay
the premises. And that this honorable court will be pleased to
pronounce for the damages aforesaid, and to decree such other
relief to the libellants as shall to law and justice appertain.
"Also to condemn the said steamboat, her tackle, apparel,
and furniture, and all persons intervening for their interest
therein, in costs and expenses.
"J OSEPH SUM'NER,

E. L OWEN."
After a stipulation had been entered into for costs by the
libellants, a monition and attachment were issued, under which
the marshal attached the vessel; a stipulation being entered
into on behalf of the vessel in. the sum of five thousand dollars,
she was discharged.
In September, 1846, the following answer was&filed -

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

563

St. John v. Paine et al.

"To the Honorable Samuel R. Betts, Judge of the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York.
" And now Edward B. St. John, of the city of New York,
in the district aforesaid, intervening for his interest in the
steamboat Neptune, appears before the honorable court, and
for answer to the libel 4nd complaint of Zebulon A. Paine of
Eastport, in the State of Maine, Sarah Norwood of same
place, and John Bucknam, Andrew Bradford, Joseph Sumner,
James McCollar, Ambrose Tucker, James Woorster, Henry
Cuff, Augustus Norton, against the steamboat Neptune, and
all parties intervening for their interest in the same, propounds
as follows: "1st. That the respondent, at the time in the said libel set
forth, to wit, on the 34th day of July aforesaid, and before and
afterwards, was the lawful owner of the said steamboat Neptune, a vessel of 720 tons, or thereabouts, now in the service of
the United States, and having sailed for Texas or Mexico.
"2d. And the respondent, -as to the allegations of the said
libellants, and each of them, in the first, fifth, sixth, seventh,
eighth, ninth, and tenth articles of the said libel contained, says
that he is ignorant of and not informed concerning the same
save by the said libel, and cannot therefore admit or deny the
same to be true, but leaves the same to be proved according to
the custom and practice of this court. And the said respondent
further alleges and propounds, that the matters in the second,
third, and fourth articles of the said libel are in great part
falsely alleged, and that the truth is, as this respondent is informed and believes, as is hereinafter particularly propounded.
"3d. That the said steamboat Neptune, being in good order and Well and sufficiently equipped and manned, sailed
from the port of New York, in the State of New York, at five
o'clock in the afternoon of the 14th day of July, 1846, bound
for Newport and Providence, in the State of Rhode Island;
and, in prosecution of her voyage, proceeded on her passage, at
her regular rate, until about one mile from Stratford light-boat,
when, at or about eight or ten o'clock in the evening, a vessel
was seen about half a quarter of a mile ahead, which vessel
the respondent understood to have been the schooner Iole, as
is alleged in said libel.
"4th. That, immediately on seeing the said schooner Iole,
the course of the said Steamboat Neptune was changed to
windward of the said schooner, for the purpose of giving said
schooner the course she was then running. That when the
said steamboat was about ten or twelve lengths from the said
schooner. it was observed that the latter had changed her

564

SUPREME

COURT.

St. Jokn v. Paine et al.

course, and was luffing up so as to cross the bows of the said
steamboat. That, when first seen; said schooner was running
-west by south, from which she changed suddenly to about
northwest. That, on seeing that said schooner had changed
her course, the bell of the steamboat was immediately rung to
stop her, and all efforts made to avoid the collision; but the
said schooner came directly across the bows of the said steamboat, and, the latter having some headway, a collision could not
be avoided. That the said schooner was struck about midships, and her crew at once jumped from the rigging on board
the said steamboat. That the first report was, that no one was
left on board the schooner; the next was, that a female and child
were left on board, upon hearing which a small boat was immediately lowered fiom the Neptune, and sufficiently manned,
and every other possible effort was made for the. purpose. of
saving the persons on board of the said schooner; but that,
before or about the time the boat could be lowered, the said
schooi'er disappeared; but whether any person or persons were
in her at the time she sunk, this respondent is not informed,
save by the said libel, and cannot state. That the captain of
the said steamboat, and the men with him who manned the
said small boat, continued to row about the place of the dis.
appearance of the said schooner for more than half hn hour;
but, finding no person or persons needing their aid, they returned to the Neptune. That, at the urgent request of the said
passengers on board the said steamboat, who feared she might
have become leaky by the collision, the said boat returned to
New York; and, on being examined, was found to be in safe
condition, only injured a little at the bows, and fully able to
have continued her voyage in safety.
"5th. That Thomas J. Davis was, at the time of the occurrence aforesaid, master and captain of said steamboat, and had
been on board of her for a year or more preceding; and that
Nathan Child, former captain of said boat, a pilot acdustomed
to conduct and manage steamboats in the harbor of New York
and on the route said boat was then proceeding, and John
Driver, a wheelsman familiar and experienced in the management'of said boat, and who had been employed on board of
her the preceding seven years, were in the pilot-house, at the
wheRl, at the time. of the said occurrence; and that all and
every of said persons were skilful and sufficient in the management of said boat, and were in no way, nor were the crew
employed in said boat, inexperienced, incompetent, unskilful,
insufficient, careless, or negligent in the management of said
steamboat, as is falsely alleged in the fourth article of the libel
aforesaid; nor was- the said steamboat at the said time care.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

565

St. John v. Painq et aL

lessly, improperly, or unskilfully navigated; nor was the loss
of the said schooner and cargo and other effects in the said
libel named, nor the lives of the said woman and child, if any
such loss took place, occasioned by the fault, carelessness, or
unskilful management of the steamboat, as is also falsely alleged in the said fourth article of the said libel aforesaid.
"6th. That the reason why the said schooner was not seen
earlier than at the distance of one quarter of a mile was, that
a heavy black cloud shut her out from view, and she had no
lights visible on board which could enable the captain, or plot,
or the other wheelsman, or any of the crew of the said steamboat, to discover the said schooner sooner.
"7th. That, as soon as the said schooner was seen, the
course of the said steamboat was immediately changed, according to the rule customary in such ases, so as to give the
schooner the course she was pursuing. That this threw the
broadside of the Neptune to view from the schooner, so that
the man at the wheel on board the schooner saw the head and
stern lights of the steamboat more distinctly, and her course
was plainly seen by him.
"8th. That the wind was blowing fresh, and the luffing
up of the schooner so as to cross the bows of the steamboat,
when the position and course of the latter were so evident to
those on board the schooner, could not have been expected by
any person on board the steamboat, and was contrary to all
proper and lawful rules of navigation.
"9th. That the said captain, pilot, wheelsman, and crew of
the said steamboat Neptune used the greatest skill and care
in the management of the same on the night aforesaid, and
took every possible precaution to prevent the occurrence of any
accident; and that the said steamboat did not in any manner
negligently run against the said schooner, as is falsely alleged
in the second article of the said libel.
1"10th. That, on the occurrence of the said'accident, the captain of the said steamboat, with a sufficient number of his crew,
manned the small boat, and went in her, so as to afford every
possible assistance to the persons or property on board the said
schooner; and the allegations in 'the third article of the said
libel, that no captain could be found on board of said steamboat, and that no assistance was offered or given to save the
lives of those on board of the said schooner, are false.
"11th. That the accident aforesaid was. occasioned by the
great negligence and want of care of the officers and crew of
the schooner Iole, in not providing powerful lights on deck, so
that the said schooner could be discerned at a distance, and in
changing the course of said schooner right across the bows of

voL. x.

48

566

SUPREME COURT.
St. John v. Paine et al.

the said steamboat when the latter was in full view of the said
officers and crew, and that it was not occasioned by the fault,
carelessness, or unskilful management, or by any malice or
evil design on the part of the said captain, pilot, or any of the
crew on -board the said steamboat Neptune, as is falsely
alleged in the fourth article of said libel, and that the owner
of the said steamboat Neptune is not therefore liable to pay
the damages by the libellant sustained.
"12th. That as to the allegations in the said tenth article of
said libel contained, this respondent says, that some person
or persons on behalf or in the name of the libellants, or one
of them, informed the said Law of the occurrence and accident, and stated who was the counsel employed therein; that
said Law immediately called on said counsel of libellants, and
on behalf of the owner of said steamboat offered to leave the
whole matter to the decision of any two disinterested persons,
who might choose a third as umpire; that said counsel of libellants promised to see his clients, and acquaint said Law with
their answer to said proposition; that the only reply or answer
made was the sending of an officer of this court to take possession of said boat by virtue of the said libel in this cause;
"13th. That all and singular the premises are true; in verification whereof, if denied, the respondent craves leave to refer to
the deposition And other proofs by him exhibited in this cause.
"Wherefore, the respondent prays that this honorable court
would please to pronounce against the libel aforesaid, and to
condemn the libellants in costs, and otherwise right and justice
to administer in the premises.
"E. B. ST. JOHN, Respondent.
"WOODRUFF & GOODMAN, Proctors."
To this answer the libellants filed a general replication.
At December term, 1846, the libel was amended, by leave of
the court, by striking out the names of Joseph Sumner, master,
James MeCollar, mate, Andrew Tucker and James Woorster,
seamen, and Henry Cuff, cook, wherever the same occur as
parties to the suit
Mach testimony was taken on both sides, of which it is
impossible to make an abstract; but the evidence of the master
of the Iole and of the 'pilot of the Neptune will show the
representations of the respective parties.
The following is the evidence of the master of the Iole.

"Joseph Sumner, sworn. Objected to by claimant as incompetent; master of brig Olive, trading betvVeen Eastport
and New York; sixteen years mariner; five or six years master

of vessel; been fifteen to twenty times through Sound.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

567

St. John v. Paine et al.

" Master of lole, 14th July last; his watch below at eight,
P. l.; went below half past eight; night was clear, starlight;
could see across the Sound both sides; did not observe any
heavy clouds in any part of horizon; first notice of danger was,
mate came to companion-way and called out that a steamboat
was coming into them; when he went below, wind was north;
steered west, at rate of seven knots; ordered them to keep west;
that course would have taken them to Captain's Island, or near
that, off Sawpits, making allowance for half a point variation of compass; kept up so high in order to be at windward,
if wind hauled westward, which had appearance of doing;
when called, got to gangway as quick as could do so; first
looked ahead and saw schooner was heading up the Sound by
land on northern side-; looked astern, and saw Stratford Point
and light-boat, latter about two points on starboard quarter,
that would make course of schooner about west; then asked
where steamboat was; received no answer; then looked under
main boom, and saw steamboat coming head on to his broadside; she was bearing about south of him, as he judged from
Old Field Point light, which was about two points on starboard quarter of steamboat; steamboat appeared fifteen to
thirty feet from him, but cannot judge distances accurately at
night; her wheels were then going. Could at time see the
land very plain on Long Island side; struck almost immediately, about midships; schooner then had about three points
of sheet off, and sails were full when he came on deck; that
must have been about a west course of schooner; steamer
struck to leeward; was dead to leeward of schooner when he
saw her; cut in twelve feet with bow, and within four feet of
through the schooner; bow pressed through the galley and
stove it to pieces; she remained fastened in to schooner a
minute or two; witness made to bows of steamer as soon as
could, called for a rope from her, received none, and got hold
of bolt-rope of schooner, and got up part way on bows of
steamboat, and then thought of woman passenger on board,
and got down on lumber to try to save the woman; found he
could get no footing, as lumber was afloat, the schooner having sunk under it; then climbed again by rope of sail to bows
of steamer; as soon as he got on bows, asked for captain of
steamer; two or three voices repeated there was no captain
on board; same as to mate.
"Witness then went aft to find small boat; searched four or
five minutes for it, and when be found it she was lowered, and
two of schooner's men and two others in her; it was shoving
off as he got there; went to search for passengers, Airs. Murphy and child.

568

SUPREME COURT.
St John v. Paine et aL

"Witness then returned to bow of steamer, and saw small
boat row up to where schooner sunk; saw no more of her till
her return.
"Did not hear bell of steamboat ring to stop her. Schooner
was in good order; about eighty tons; had cargo on board.
(Proves bill of lading of part; deposition to this fact to put
in.) The sky continued clear; saw several vessels both sides
of schooner, one ahead and one to leeward; before collision,
one to leeward was bearing about southeast; should judge
could see vessels, before and after collision, two miles in all
directions; Pever saw vessels carry lights in Sound such a
night.
"If steamer had been running her true course when he came
on deck, would have cleared schooner, for she was dead to leeward; spoke with some one on board the steamer; don't know
who; heard no one called captain; was told there was none
on board. Witness talked with John Driver (defendant ob.
jects, and ruled out); had conversation with Harris after arrival at New York; he said he had turned in at time of collision ; did not explain cause of accident.
"Witness never said or admitted to Childs or Harris that
he ought to have* carried lights, or that accident was owing
to his not doing so.
"Brought the woman and child from Eastport; child about
three years old; knew her in Eastport; was a very short time
getting from his bertI to deck; did not call for woman and
child, because his whole mind was on saving his vessel, and
did not think of tiem;
after got on deck, had not time +o
think of woman and child; thought of his own life and to
save schooner ; thinks tide was about slack and low water."
The evidence of the pilot of the steamboat was as folCaptain Nathan Chlds, sworn. Resides at
"Defence.
Providence ; is fortyseven years old; mariner thirty-five years,
in all capacities, - principally on the Sound, on all kinds of
craft; been about twenty years pilot or master of steamboats.
as . pilot.
1846, Harris
July,Henry
board
"Was
also
was Left*
Captain
P.M. 14th
five,Neptune,
Yorkonabout
New
pilot on board. Thomas Davis was captain of the boat, and
she had her full complement of men, as he believes ; was not
Witness had watch fore part of the
on board the trip before.
night Weather was clear, except black cloud at east. Between nine and ten the cloud was about~two hours high, or at
height of sun at two hours above horizon, and closed down to
horizon, and spread northeast and southeast. Neptune was
-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

569

St. John v. Paine et aL

running east by north. Witness stood in front part of wheelhouse, midships, on the look-out. Driver had the wheel. Witness was at middle window of wheel-house, about the middle
of the boat. Wheelsman was under his directions. Could
then see ahead from one fourth to three eighths of a mile, so
as to d
ra an object; should not think could see any thing,
except a light, farther off. Neptune was going at about ten
miles the hour. About twenty-five minutes before ten, first
saw schooner (Iole), north; was then about one mile and a half
from light-boat, Stratford shore light bearing east by north
one half north. Schooner was then directly ahead; could just
discern her by side of flag-pole. Wind was about north;
quite a strong breeze. Could not tell what course of schooner
was; could not see her plain enough. She was trimmed close
aft, or nearly so; might have had her sheets a little eased off,
that brought her sails edgewise towards him, and could not
tell whether she was a sloop or schooner.
" Witness ordered the wheel hove hard a-starboard immediately,; and in less than half a minute ordered bell rung to stop
the engine, seeing we were coming very near; and then rang
to back engine, and by that time were close to schooner, and
soon struck.
" The effect of heaving wheel a-starboard was to bring boat
up to northward, and altered course of boat to about northeast.
" Thinks schooner was heading about northwest. She was
square across bow of Neptune when they came together.
Schooner had no lights; customary for sailing vessels on
Sound to show lights when steamboats are iear. Thinks
schooner could have easily fallen off with the wind, if she saw
the steamboat. If she had altered her course a very trifle,
by falling off at any time within a mile, she could have easily
cleared the Neptune. As soon as struck, crew of schooner got
on board Neptune. Boat of Neptune was immediately lowered, and sent out to see if could find any body. It returned
without finding any person; and captain took it himself, with
lantern, and went out again, and was out with it about twenty-five minutes. Came back without finding any person.
She was then hoisted up, and Neptune started, first northward,
and directly across the Sound; from collision three quarters
to one hour Neptune iay by before going on ; found Neptune
leaking some; and, after consultation, it was thought more
pru ent to return to New York. Got back to New York at
half past three to four, A. K.
" Schooner ought to have set a light or altered her course.
Pretty much all vessels set a light, in dark nights) when steam48*

SUPREME COURT.
St. John v. Paine et al.

boats are near. It is impossible to see sail-vessels any distance such nights without.
"Neptune had two large, bright lights, which could easily
have been seen four or five miles off.
"If schooner had altered her course half a point within fifteen or twenty minutes of collision, would easily have avoided it.
" Schooner could very easily have gone to leeward, not so
easily to windward, of Neptune.
"Witness changed his course to about northeast to windward, and considered that the prudent and safe course to take;
changed it only to escape schooner.
" According to his experience in meeting sail vessels in that
way, it is the proper course for steamer to go to windward
of schooner.
"Thinks there were from two hundred to two hundred and
fifty passengers on board the Neptune; not a great many
ladies.
"Collision was caused by schooner not setting a light, and not
altering her course when she saw the Neptune.
"Not aware of any thing that could have been done on Neptune that was omitted to avoid the collision, according to his
judgment and experience; and every thing was afterwards
done in their power to save life and property on schooner.
Schooner sunk in about eight minutes after collision.
"Houghton (clerk of boat) and Davis (a passenger) were
in wheel-house at the time, with witness and man at wheel.
Witness first discovered schooner. Captain Davis had turned
in, at back part of wheel-house, twenty or twenty-five minutes
before collision. Masters usually retire after boat gets well into
the Sound.
"1Witness had sailed the boat before that as master, but came
on board that day as pilot; was appointed by Mr. Law. No
time was specified nor wages. Witness was at that time, employed on board Massachusetts, and it was understood that both
boats belonged to same concern. Witness was transferred to
the Neptune. Both boats had been running to same places.
Does not know that theyhad been in opposition. Does not
know that Harris, second pilot, had been on this boat before.
He was also transferred from Massachusetts. Thinks that was
Captain Davis's first trip at that period. Captain Rollins had
been master before; understood that he and his pilots had
been transferred to the Oregon that day; thinks it was about
first of flood when he left New York, but does not recollect
about it. Did not notice that particularly. Light-boat about
fifty-five miles from New York. Thinks collision was a mile
or a mile and a half. from light-boat.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

57]

St. John v. Paine et al.

"A drunken man fell into dock fifteen or twenty minutes before leaving New York, and was drowned.
"Did not know or hear on board that the Neptune leaked
when she left New York.
"Sound eight or nine miles wide at place of collision. Thinks
the Neptune was a very little nearest south side of Sound, and
on usual course he has been in the habit of taking on board
steamboats. Judges his position from what had observed days
going through the Sound. Did not at time see the shores.
Thinks discerned Connecticut shore, but not plainly. No recollection of looking at Long Tland side. Connecticut shore
about five miles off; could see it plainest above.
"1Could see light-boat, probably three or four miles off, and
Stratford light about five miles. When he first saw schooner,
she bore east by north from the Neptune, directly ahead. Could
not tell how she was steering, or whether going up or down the
Sound. Did not look at her with his night-glass ; had no time;
his whole attention was directed to attempting to clear her;
and took what he thought proper measure, by throwing wheel
starboard. Judged she was going up or down the Sound, and
that was the precaution always taken to clear them; probably
one hundred to one hundred and fifty yards off when discovered
how she was heading, but could not tell distance with any certainty. Put his wheel hard a-starboard, and thinks that altered
his course four to four and a half points, and got his wheel so
before saw how schooner was heading. As wind was, judged
she must be going up or down the Sound; and besides, if running across Sound, sails would have shown differently. Steamer struck stem on, supposes starboard side of her stem, as that
was more indented than the other.
" Thinks schooner would be running six or seven miles
per hour. Hit her on larboard side, nearly between her two
masts.
"Should judge schooner was heading about northwest when
they struck. Her boom was not thrown off much. She would
lie up to about northwest on that wind; and struck her nearly
midships, about at right angles.
" Can't say what would have been the effect if he had not
altered his course, vessels were so near to each other.
"If schooner had not altered her course, steamer would have
cleared her. Saw schooner alter her course a minute or a
minute and a half before striking. Presumes she was previously heading west, or within half a point of that.
"Discovered she was going up the Sound two or three minutes after he saw het; not over three or four minutes, he should
think, from time he saw her till they struck. If he had thrown

SUPREME COURT.
St. John v. Paine et aL

his wheel larboard, should have escaped her; but that would
have been contrary to usage of passing vessels.
"If the schooner had kept her course just as she was struck,
the steamer would probably have cleared her, if she had not
altered her own course; and thinks would have cleared her fifteen feet.
"Thinks rang bell to stop in one minute after saw how schooner was, perhaps one hundred to one hundred and fifty yards off;
rang bell to back as soon as he supposed engineer had time to
stop. Knew by motion of boat that engine had stopped. Can
always fell in wheel-house whether engine is in motion. Had
hot left wheel-house, except to take supper; had not laid down,
or sat down.
"It is usual for sailing vessels to alter their course, or set a
light, when they see a steamer coming.
"Was not requested by passenger, to go into Stratford Point
after accident. Did not tell any of them that he knew little of
the coast. Did not tell any one that he was not a regular
pilot. Had nothing to say to passengers. Did not say lie could
not put into New Haven.
"Watch was set about eight o'clock. Did not notice black
cloud after put back for New York.
"Did not consider collision a severe one. Captain reported
stern leaked some. Weight of steamboat, not going very fast,
would break in an old vessel, without steamer feeling the blow
much.
"It is usual for sailing vessels to set lights in passing steamboats, or coming up to them; commonly set in shrouds or rigging. Considers it duty of vessels to show lights, according to
practice in Sound.
"If he had known the course of schooner, should hdve thrown
his.wheel as he did, because schooner might have hauled off
on wind. Stern of steamboat injured very little; put on a
small'piece to repair her.
"Vessels on wind can keep away quicker than luff.
"With the wind that night, schooner could hold about a west
course; wnuld probably fall off a little south; so would naturally waver a little, as wind was more or less fresh."
In February, 1847, the cause was argued in the District
Court, when the court adju-ged that tl-c libellants recover their
damages sustained by the collision, and that it should be referred to a commissioner to ascertain and report the amount of
damages sustained by the libellants.
In April, 1847, the commissioner made the following report in the case:-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

573

St. John v. Paine et al.

Commissioner's Report.
"In pursuance of & decretal order made in the above-entitled
cause, by which, among other things, it was referred to the undersigned, one of the commissioners of this court, to ascerfain
and report the amount of damages sustained by the libellants
by means of the collision in the pleadings mentioned:
"I, George W. Morton, the commissioner to whom the above
matter was referred, do report, that I have been attended by
the proctors for the libellants and claimant, and have taken and
examined the testimony 6ffered* by the respective parties, and
do find that the damages sustained by the libellants, exclusive
of interest, amount to the sum of $ 3,547.67, which sum is
made up of the following items :The value of the vessel at the time she was lost,
75 barrels of codfish, at $ 3 per barrel,

.

200,000 laths, at $ 1.50 per 1,000,
6,625 pickets, at $ 6.25 per 1,000,
35 tons plaster, at $ 2.25 per ton,
30 empty beer-barrels, at $ 2 each,
2 beer-barrels partly full, at $ 2 each,
Value of the stores on board,
.

.

.
.

225.00

.
.

.

.
.

.

.

.

.

$ 2,500.00

.
.

.

.
.

Freight on 75 barrels codfish, at 2s. per barrel,

.

300.00
41.40
78.75
60.00
4.00
33.00

18.75

$3,260.90
Freight on 200,000 laths, at 40 cents per 1,000,
it
6,625 pickets, at $ 2 per 1000,
cc35
tons plaster, at $ 2.50 per ton,
U
32 beer-barrels, at 25 cents,

$3,260.90
80.00
13.27
52.50
8.00

$3;414.67

Articles on board belonging to Augustus Norton, estimating the quadrant at $16,
.
.
123.00
Cash in his trunk,
.
.
10.00
$3,547.67
$3,547.67
45.57
$3,593.24
"Amounting in the whole, without interest, to $ 3,547.67.
All which is respeetfully submitted.
" GEORGE W. MORTON, U S. Commissioner.
" April 30, 18472

574

SUPREME COURT.
St'John v. Paine et al.

In May, 1847, the District Court confirmed the report of the
commissioner, with interest from the 7th of February, 1847,
and costs.
The claimant appealed to the Circuit Court, which, in November, 1847, affirmed the decree of the District Court.
The claimant then appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mfr. Wood, for the appellant, and -Mr. Gillet, for the appellees.
Mr. Wood contended that, from the evidence (which he exaniined), the following facts were shown to exist in the case.
The schooner Iole was-sailing towards New York, in Long
Island Sound, steering her course west; but her actual course,
by reason of lee-way, &c., west by south. The wind fresh from
the north. Sailing at rate of seven miles an hour.
Under these circumstances, the wind was faiFfor the schoon.
er, that is, she had what is technically called " a free wind," or
"hid the wind free."
The steamboat Neptune, with from 200 to 300 passengers,
was going "down Sound" from New York, on her proper
course, east or east by north. Her speed about ten miles an
hour.
The collision was about ten o'clock. The two vessels were
therefore approaching each other at a combined rate of seventeen miles per hour.
The night was clear towards the west, north, and south, but
dark'towards the east by reason of a "bank" or cloud in that
direction, which, at or about the time of collision, rendered objects invisible.
Libellants' witnesses do not contradict this.
The direction of the wind antd course of the schooner were
such as to present her sails edgewise to- the officers of the
steamboat, so as to increase the difficulty of seeing her.
The position of her sails, however, indicated to the officers
of the steamboat, when they did see her, that the schooner was
sailing nearly towards them, or nearly from them, and not
across the Sound.
The courses of the two vessels were nearly on the same
line (in opposite, directions), that is, on lines which, when the
schooner was first discovered by the officers of the steamboat,
converged very nearly to each other; so that the schooner was
at first seen directly ahead of the steamboat, or a little on her
'starboard bow.
The steamboat was discovered by the crew of the schooner
when several miles distant.
The officers and crew of the steamboat did not and could

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

575

St. John v. Paine et al.

not see the schooner until within a distance not greater than
from one quarter to three eighths of a mile.
At the instant the schooner was discovered, the course of the
steamboat was changed to windward (that is, to northeast), to
avoid the schooner.
Under the circumstances, this was the prudent and proper
course.
The -steamboat did prudently all that was possible to avoid
the collision, and to save life and property after the collision.
The steamboat was properly officered and manned.
The schooner did nothing to avoid the collision; but either
kept her course (notwithstanding she saw the steamboat approaching for nearly half an hour), or she designedly luffed, or
was suffered to luff, so as to cross the steamboat's bows.
The schooner neither carried lights nor showed one, when
she saw the steamboat approaching.
She ought at least to have showed a light, when her crew
vitnessed the approach of the boat for nearly half an hour.
Upon this. state of facts, fr. Wood arranged his argument
under tae following points, viz. I. To enable the owners of the Iole to recover in this, case,
there must have been wilful misconduct on the part of the
Neptune, or negligence on her part, accompanied witli freedom
from blame on the part of the Iole.
There is no pretence for a charge of wilful misconduct.
II. No blame or negligence can be imputed to the Neptune.
1. She was sufficiently manned with skilful and experienced
seamen.
2. She wad well and sufficiently lighted, and in the proper
place.
The court erred in assuming that the atmosphere was thick,
as well as cloudy, ahead.
3. The Neptune had a good look-out. The night not being
fbggy or hazy, a look-out on her deck below was unnecessary.
The look-out in tje pilot-house was proper and sufficient, The
court erred in supposing a closed window intervened on the
said 14th of July.
4. Sh was properly navigated as to speed.
Though she went faster at daylight, and in the early part of
her voyage, at the period in question she was going at the rate
of ten miles the hour; which was not too fgst, taking into view
the general well-known usage in this country, and the character
of the evening, which enabled the Iole or any other, vessel
approaching her to see her at a great distance, and on their'
showing a light would enable her to see them. The Perth, 3
Hagg. Adra. 417.

SUPREME COURT.
St. John v. Paine et al.

5. The Neptune was properly navigated, as to course, which
was east by north, by the compass, and continued so until she
discovered the Iole.
The Iole was approaching her on a west course, by the
compass.
Allowance being made for lee-way of both vessels, which
amounted to about half a point, they were going the same
course reversed, with a variation of about half a point.
III. The Neptune first perceived the Iole at a distance from
her of one quarter to three eighths of a mile, and could not see
her at a greater distance, by reason of the cloud in the east.
IV. At this time the Iole appeared to the Neptune to be approaching or receding in nearly the same line, her sails being
seen edgewise, and the Neptune appeared to be in the act of
crossing her line to the northward, she being seen over the
starboard bow "of the Neptune, which is fully established by
the specific observations of the witnesses.
V. The evidence that the Neptune, at the distance of six
miles from the Iole, was on a line south of that of the Iole,
and so as to pass the Iole to the south of 'her, is too weak to
overcome the clear and decisive evidence on the last point, even
assuming them to be competent witnesses.
These witnesses were interested and incompetent.
To hit the lole as she did, (the Iole keeping her course,)
and to come up directly towards her, the Neptune must have
changed her course to due north, or north by west, which is not
only improbable, but contradicted decidedly by the evidence.
VI. Assuming it to be true, and that the Neptune changed
her course to the northward, some five or six minutes prior to
the collision, it was so changed as to bring her in the position
stated in the fourth point; and she was in that position when
the Iole was first discovered by her, as the evidence decisively
shows.
VII. If the Neptune changed her course five or six minutes
before the collision, so as to bring her in the position stated in
the fourth point, she was not in fault in making the change,
because she did not (and could not) then see the lole.
VIII. And it was the duty of the Neptune, when she first
perceived the Iole, to endeavour to pass her, and not to stop or
slack her speed.
1. By stopping her course, she would have been in danger
of being run into while at rest by a moving body, thereby
endangering the lives of her passengers; it being the duty of
passenger vessels to use every precaution of diligence, industry,
and skill to save the lives of their passengers. 2 Kent's Com.
601, 602; Christie v, Griggs, 2 Camp. N. P. IL 79.

DE.CEMBER TERM, 1850.

577

St. John v. Paine et aL

2. By slackening her course she would have been less able
to avoid collision than by continuing, or even accelerating, her
speed.
IX. The Neptune, when in the positicn stated in the fourth
point, was correct in putting her helm a-starboard.
1. It was highly expedient that both vessels, on account of
the proximity, should be active in endeavoring to avoid collision, and that neither should ke6p her course, and the Neptune
was bound to act on that supposition. The Friends, 1 Win.
Rob. 482.
2. It was proper that the Neptune should go to the windward; the deviation in that direction on her part was easier, as
she was crossing the line of the Iole in that direction, and the
Iole could bear away to the leeward more readily than she could
luff towards the wind. The Shafinon, 1 Win. Rob. 469, 470.
3. This movement was not only more convenient, but
conformable to the general practice of the Sound, which is
a wide sea, and rules are modified by practice in particular
localities.
The Trinity House regulation is applicable only to narrow
channels. 1 Win. Rob. 489.
4. The general rule that a vessel should pass to the right is
not imperative, but a rule of convenience, which yields to circumstances, when both should be -active. Abbott on Ship.
ping, 476; 3 Carr. & Payne, 529; The Friends, 1 Wm. Rob.
482; The Woodrop Sims, 2 Dods. 86; The Cynosure, 7 Law
Rep. 222,
X. The Neptune would have avoided the Iole, if the Iole
had even kept her course; more especially, if she had borne
away to the leeward, when she saw the change of cours&of the
steamboat towards the north, by her lights. And it was her
duty to bear away, as she could easily perceive the change of
the Neptune's course. The Cynosure, 3 Carr. & Payne, 529.
XI. The Iole, according to the preponderating weight of the
evidence, neither kept her course nor bore away from the wind,
but, from the agitation of her -helmsman, or some other cause,
she luffed into the wind, across the course then pursued by the
Neptune. The blow was received by the steamboat on the
starboard side of her bows.
XII. The Iole was in faiit,1. In not keeping a look-out, and discovering the clouds in
the east; and in not forthwith showing a light when she discovered the Neptune, it being her duty, and the practice of
the Sound, in such eircumsta.ces, to show a light. And it
was more important for her to exhibit a light to the steamboat, than for the latter to show a light to her.
49
VOL. x.

578

SUPREME

COURT.

St. John v. Paine et al.

2. In not bearing away when the Neptune changed her
course; which change she perceived, or might have perceived,
with a proper look-out.
3. In neglecting her helm, bringing her to the wind, and
crossing the track of the Neptune. See eleventh point.
XIII. The Iole being in default, cannot recover, even assuming there is fault on the part of the Neptune; it not appearing
there was any wilful design on the part of the Neptune to injure.
Rathbun v. Payne, 19 Wend. 399; Barnes v. Cole, 21 Wend.
188; Simpson v. Hand, 6 Whart. 311; Reeves v. Constitution,
Gilpin, 579; Broadwell v. Swigert, 7 B. Monroe, 39; The Celt,
3 Hagg. Adm. 322, 323; The Cynosure, 7 Law Rep. 222;
Cook v. Champlain Transportation Company, 1 Denio, 99;
Brown v. Maxwell, 6 Hill, 592; Hartfield v. Roper, 21 Wend.
618; Brownell v. Flagler, 5 Hill, 282; Spencer v. Utica and
Schenectady Railroad Co. 5 Barbour, 337.
XIV. If the damage is the resuilt of accident, there can be
no recovery; and accident is to be presumed, till the contrary
is shown.
_IIr. Gillet contended that, according to the evidence, the
following was the state of facts 1. The collision took place in Long Island Sound, on the
.14th of July, 1846," between nine and ten o'clock, P. M., the
Neptune cutting the Iole nearly in two between the fore and
main rigging, and sinking her immediately, with her cargo and
two passengers. The crew saved themselves by climbing upon
the Neptune. This position is not disputed.
2. The Iole, at the time of the collision, had passed about
one mile south of the Middle Ground light-boat,.and was west
of her. The Iole was steering directly west.
3. The wind was blowing fresh from the north, and the Iole
was running close on the wind.
4. The Iole did not change her course or ]uff before the collision, but her sails were full when it took place.
5. The steamboat changed her course to the windward by
putting her wheel hard a-starboard when within a quarter to
three eighths of a mile from the schooner.
6. The steamer would have cleared the schooner, if the former had. not changed her course.
7. There is no custom requiring a schooner in the Sound to
carry lights when sailing.
8. The night was not so dark as to render lights at all
necessary.
9. It is the duty of a steamboat, when a schooner is sailing
on the wind, if necessary to avoid collision, to change her

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

579

St. John v. Paine et al.

course so as to avoid the latter, and it is not the duty of a
schooner to change to the leeward.
10. Claimant's witnesses state, that, when they first saw
the Iole. she was a quarter to three eighths of a mile off, dead
ahead.
If this evidence is true, the steamer ought to have ported her
helm and gone to the south.
Upon this state of facts, 31Ir. Gillet made the following
points:1. The schooner performed her duty in every respect, and
had a right to keep her course to the west. Story on Bailments,
 611; The Thames, 5 Rob. 345; The Jupiter, 3 Hagg. Adm.
320; Handaysyde v. Wilson, 3 Carr. & Payne, 528.
2. It is incumbent on the steamboat to account for her situation, and to satisfy the court that there was no mismanag 'ment, or mistake, or blame that can be reasonably imputed to
her. The Perth, 3 Hagg. Adm. 414, 417.
3. The steamboat did not perform her duty, but was in fault
in not keeping a better look-out, in changing her course to the
windward, and in not turning to the leeward, (that is, to the
south,) and in not earlier stopping her engine and backing
when she saw the danger. The Iron Duke, 9 Jurist, 439"
Abbott on Shipping, 234; Story on Bailments,  611; 3 Kent,
Com. 230, 5th ed.; The Cynosure, 7 Law Rep. 222; The
Jupiter, 3 Hagg. 320; 2 Wend. 452; The Friends, 1 Win.
Rob. 481, 483; The Shannon, 1 Win. Rob. 467; 1 Law
Rep. 313, 318; The Gazelle, 1 Wm. Rob. 475; Lowrey v.
Steamboat Portland, 1 Law Rep. 313, 318; The Gazelle, 1
WIm. Rob. 475; Conkling's Admiralty, 305-311.
4. The witnesses for the steamboat state, that, when they first
discovered the schooner, she was dead ahead, from a quarter to
three eighths of a mile off. If so, it was the steamer's duty to
have ported her helm and gone to t' - larboard of the schooner.
She was bound to take the utmost care. The Gazelle, 1 Wa.
Rob. 475; The Perth, 3 Hagg. Adm. 414.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York.
The suit was commenced in the District Court in admiralty
against the steamboat Neptune by the appellees, who were the
owners of the schooner Jole, for damages done by a collision
on Long Island Sound, off Stratford Point, on the evening of
the 14th of July, 1846.
The lole was laden with a cargo of lumber, plaster, and fish
in barrels, and was of about eighty tons burden

580

SUPREME COURT.
St. John v. Paine et al.

The Neptune had on board from 200 to 250 passengers.
The schooner was struck near midships, on the larboard side,
and immediately sunk, carrying with her a woman and child,
who were lost.
The libel charges that the schooner was on her voyage up
the Sound to New York; and that about a'mile south of the
light-boat stationed off the Middle, Ground, a shoal at that place,
and nearly opposite Stratford Point, some sixty miles from
New York, she was steering about a west course, the wind being from the north, and the night clear, so that a vessel could
be descried at a considerable distance; and that while sailing
upon this course with a fresh wind, going at from six to eight
knots an hour, and a short time after the schooner had passed
the light-boat, between the hours of nine and ten o'clock at
night, she was negligently run down by the Neptune, which
vessel was proceeding down the -Sound from New York, and
struck against her hull, head on, between the fore and main
rigging on the larboard side, with such force and violence as to
break open her hull, and cut her nearly in two, so that she filled
and sunk immediately.
The allegations of the answer are, that the Neptune had
sailed from New York at five o'clock of the afternoon of that
day, bound for Newport and Providence (IL I.), and had proceeded on her voyage until within about a mile from Stratford
light-boat, when, at or about eight or ten o'clock in the evening,
a vessel was descried about a quarter of a mile ahead, which
turned out to be the Iole in question. That immediately on
seeing the vessel, the course of the Neptune was changed to
windward for the purpose of giving her the course she was
running. That when the Neptune was about ten or twelve
lengths from the schooner, it was seen that she had changed
her course, and was luffing up into the wind so as to cross the
bows of the steamboat. That when first seen, the Iole was running west by south, from which she changed suddenly to about
northwest; that, on seeing she had changed her course, the bell
of the Neptune was immediately rung to stop her, and all efforts
made to avoid the collision; but that the schooner came directly across the bows of the steamboat, and, the latter having
still some headway, a collision could not be avoided.
It will be seen from these allegations of the respective parties, that the issue between them, and upon which the case
must turn in favor of the one or the other, is a very simple one,
whether we have regard to the law or to the facts.
The statement of the Iole is, that she was proceeding on a
west course up the Sound, nearly close-hauled to the wind, with
her starboard tacks on board, at the rate of about seven knots

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

581

St. John v. Paine et al.

an hour; and that, while keeping on this course, the Neptune,
in an improper manceuvre to cross her trail, and pass to the
windward, struck her near midships on the larboard side, and
sunk her.
The allegation of the Neptune does not vary substantially
from this statement, except that it charges the collision to the
fault of the Iole in not keeping on her course, but suddenly
changing it by throwing her head into the wind, and thereby
placing her athwart the track of the steamboat as she was in
the act of passing to the windward.
The general question involved in the case is, which of these
vessels has been in fault; and this will depend upon the evidence produced by each in the court below, together with the
application of the rules of navigation to be observed by them
at the time of the collision, and with a view to avoid it, having
regard to their relative position and course; and, more especially, the application of these rules under the facts and circumstances, in a case where the colliding vessel is propelled by
steam, and the other by sails.
Among the nautical rules applicable to the navigation of
sailing vessels are the following, viz.: - A vessel that has the
wind free, or sailing before or with the wind, must get out of
the way of the vessel that is close-hauled, or sailing by or
against it; and the vessel on the starboard tack has a right to
keep her course, and the one on the larboard tack must give
way, or be answerable for the consequences. So, when two
vessels are approachin, each other, both having the wind free,
and consequently the power of readily controlling their movements, the vessel on the larboard tack must give way, and each
pass to the right. The same rule governs vessels sailing on the
wind and approaching each other, when it is doubtful which is
to windward. But if the vessel on the larboard tack is so far
to windward that, if both persist in their course, the other will
strike her on the lee side abaft the beam or near the stern, in
that case the vessel on the starboard tack should give way, as
she can do so with greater facility and less loss of time and
distance than the other. Again, when vessels are crossing
each other in opposite directions, and there is the least doubt
of their going clear, the vessel on the starboard tack should
persevere in her course, while that on the larboard tack should
bear up, or keep away before the wind. The Friends, 1 Win.
Rob. 483; The Traveller, 2 Win. Rob. 197; The Ann and
Mary, Ib. 189; The Chester, 3 Hagg. 316; The Jupiter, Ib.
320; The Celt, lb. 327; The Woodrop Sims, 2 Dodson, 86;
The Thames, 5 Rob. 345; 3 Garr. &. Payne, 528; 9 lb. 601;
12 Moore, 148; 3 Kent, Con. 230.
49*

SUPREME COURT.
St. John v. Paine et aL

These rules have their exceptions in extreme cases, depending'upon the special circumstances of the. case, and in respect
to which no general rule can be laid down or applied. Either
vessel may find herself in a position at the time when it would
be impossible to conform to them without certain peril to herself, or a collision with the approaching vessel. Under such
circumstances, the master must necessarily be thrown upon
the resources of his'own judgment and skill in extricating his
own vessel, as well as the vessel approaching, from .the impending peril. These cases cannot be anticipated, and therefore cannot be provided for by any fixed regulation. They
can only be examined, and the management of the vessel approved or condemned, as the case may arise.
But no one can look through the reports in admiralty in
England without being struck with the steadiness and rigor
with which these general nautical rules have been enforced in
cases of collision, under the advice of the Trinity masters of
that court, or fail to be impressed with the justice and propriety of such application, and the salutary results flowing
from it.
In the case of the Traveller, an exception was set up by the
colliding vessel, on the ground that the other, when.first descried, was about two points on her lee bow. This was denied. But the court declined to enter into a minute examination as to which of the statements was correct, observing that
it had been distinctly laid down, over and over again, that
when two vessels on opposite tacks are approaching each
other, and there is.a probability of collision, it is the duty of
the vessel on the larboard to give way at once, without considering whether the other vessel be one or more points to leeward. And, in the case of the Friends, the court, where an
exception was attempted to be engrafted on the Trinity rules,
in submitting the case to the Trinity masters, recommended
that, for the sake of the safe navigation of the Thames and the
great interests which are daily and hourly there at stake, the
exception, if any were to be made, should be clear, definite, and
intelligible, in order that it might, at the first glance, be known
to the mercantile and maritime world; that unless it were so, it
was obvious that persons in all cases would endeavor to form
exceptions for themselves, and instead of certainty they would
have uncertainty; instead of security, danger. And in the
case of'The Ann and Mary, decided in 1843, the Trinity masters observed to the court, speaking-of the rule that the vessel
on the larboard tack must give way, and where they had applied it with great rigor, that the golden rule so long established must. be sttictly adhered to, which was, that the vessel

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

583

St. John v. Paine et al.

on the larboard tack is to give way and the vessel on the starboard tack to hold on; and that the new rule which had been
lately made for steam-vessels, namely, each to put the helm
a-port, under all doubtful circumstances, assimilated with it.
The vessel on the starboard tack puts her helm a-port to keep
the wind, and the vessel on the larboard tack does the same to
bear away. That the same rule applied to sailing, as well as
steam vessels, and if it should be strictly adhered to, there
would not be one thousandth part of the accidents which
had occurred.
These rules, which are the results of the practical experience
and wisdom of navigators, cannot be too si.ongly impressed
upon the observance-of those engaged in the management of
vessels on our rivers, or other waters where the course of business and trade naturally confines the navigation to a particular tract or route; and it is the obvious duty of the courts to
apply them strictly in all cases of collision, unless where a
clear exception is established by the party seeking to excuse
himself for a departure.
Our examination thus far has been confined to the nautical
rules governing the navigation of sailing vessels. We have
thus confined it, because it will be found that they are generally applicable as rul's regulating the navigation in cases
where one of the vessels As propelled by steam.
The striking difference is, that stear-vessels are regarded in
the light of vessels navigating with a fair wind, and are always
under obligations to do whatever a sailing vessel going free or
with a fair wind would be required to do under similar circumstances. Their obligation extends still further, because they
possess a power to avoid the collision not belonging to sailing
vessels even with a free wind, the master having the steamer
under his command, both by altering the helm and by stopping the engines. They are also of vast power and speed
compared with craft on our rivers and internal seas propelled
by sails, exposing the latter to inevitable destruction in case of
collision, and rendering it at all times difficult, and not unfrequently impossible, to get out of their way. Greater caution
and vigilance are therefore naturally to be exacted of those in.
charge of them, to avoid the dangers of the navigation. This
justly results from the superior power to direct and control the
course and speed of the vessel, and the serious damage consequent upon a failure to avoid the dangers. As a general rule,
therefore, when meeting a sailing vessel, whether close-hauled
or with the wind free, the latter has a right to keep her course,
and it is the duty of the steamer to adopt such precautions as
will avoid her. The Shannon, 2 Hagg. Adm. 173; The Perth,

584

SUPREME COURT,
St. John v. Paine et aL

3 Tb. 414; The Rose, 2 Wm. Rob. 1; Hawkins v. The Duchess and Orange Steamboat Co., 2 Wend. 452; 3 Kent, Com.
230; Abbott on Shipping, p. 228 (Boston ed. 1836).
By an adherence to this rule on the part of the sailing vessel, the steamer with a proper look-out will be enabled, when
approaching in an opposite direction, to adopt the necessary
measures to avoid the danger, as she will have a right to assume that the sailing vessel will keep her course. If the latter
fails to do this, the fault will be attributable to her, and the
master of the steamer will be responsible only for a fair exertion of the power of his vessel to avoid the collision under the
unexpected change of the course of the other vessel, and the
circumstahces of the case.
Recurring now to the facts attending the collision, as disclosed in the court below, and applying the rules of navigation
as above stated, and which should have been observed by the
respective vessels, we shall be enabled to determine without
much difficulty which of them has been in fault.
The Iole had on board her starboard tacks, and was nearly
.close-hauled to the wind, and, as we have seen, had a right,
and indeed was bound, to keep on her course; and it was the
duty of the Neptune to adopt the proper measures to avoid
her. There is some discrepancy in the evidence, but the clear
weight of it is, that she kept het course till the collision occurred. She was not descried by the hands on board the -Neptune till the two vessels were from one fourth to three eighths
of a mile apart, with a combined speed of sixteen or seventeen
miles the hour. She was then, as they supposed, directly
ahead. The wheel of the Neptune was immediately put hard
a-starboard, with a view to pass the schooner to the wirfdward;
and it is supposed by the hands on board that this manceuvre
would have cleared her, had she not at the same time changed
her course by heading more into the wind. As we have already said, this allegation is not borne out by the evidence.
On the'contrary, the strong probability is, according to the testimony, that the hands on board the Neptune at the time they
first descried the schooner mistook her position, and, instead of
being on a line with her, that the Neptune was to the. leeward,
and that, in changing her course and coming up to pass to the
windward, they naturally supposed the schooner had changed
her course also.
Besides, she was in fault in attempting to pass the Iole to
the windward. Even admitting that she was not mistaken in
the position of this vessel, and that she was dead ahead, it
was the duty of the Neptune to bear away; and to pass on
the larboard side. As we have seev, the observance of no

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

585

St. John v. Paine et al.

one of the rules of navigation is more strongly recommended,
or more steadily enforced, in the admiralty, than this one,
where two vessels are approaching in opposite directions, and
there is danger of a collision.
It is observable in this connection, that the pilot in charge of
the Neptune seems not to have been properly instructed in his
duty in the emergency after the schooner had been discovered
ahead, or if he had, that he neglected it; for we find him testifying that, if he had known her course, (which he did not
when he gave the order,) he should have thrown his wheel as
he did, because the schooner might have hauled off on the
wind. And the other pilot on board expressed the opinion,
that there was ho difficulty whatever in her keeping away and
avoiding the Neptune, after seeing her two or three mileg off.
They seem to have entertained the opinion, that, according to
the rules of navigation, it was the duty of the sailing vessel
to give way when meeting a vessel propelled by steam; and
this even when she was on the starboard tack and nearly closehauled to the wind. Nowthe owner is responsible for damage
resulting not only from want of care. and attention on the
part of those in charge of the vessel, but also from the want
of proper knowledge and skill to enable them to manage her
according to established nautical rules. Error of judgment will
be no defence, especially if resulting from incompetency. And
erroneous opinions of duty on the part of those in the immediate management and control of the vessel naturally turn
a doubt, arising from conflicting evidence upon a question
whether or not a proper direction was given in the emergency,
against them.
We are also satisfied, that the steamboat was in fault in not
keeping at the time a proper look-out on the forward part of
the deck; and that the failure to de~cry the schooner at a
greater distance than half a mile ahead is attributable to this
neglect. The pilot-house, in the night, especially if dark, and
the view obscured by clouds in the distance, was not the
proper place, whether the windows were up or down. The
view of a look-out stationed there must necessarily have been
partially obstructed. A competent and vigilant look-out stationed at the forward part of the vessel, and in a position best
adapted to descry vessels approaching at the earliest moment,
is indispensable to exempt the steamboat from blame in case
of accident in the night-time, while navigating waters on
which it is accustomed to meet other water craft.
There is nothing harsh or unreasonable in this rule; and its
strict observance aid enforcement will be found as beneficial
to the interest of the owners as to the uafety of navigation;

586

SUPREME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

a remark equally true in respect to every other nautical rule,
which the results of experience have shown enter so materially into the proper management of the vessel.
It has been insisted, that the schooner was in fault in not
carrying a light, so as to enable the vessels approaching to see
her at a greater distance. But all agree that it was a clear,
starlight night, and hence there could be no difficulty, with a
proper look-out, in seeing to a sufficient distance to enable
the steamer to make the proper movement to avoid her.
It is not usual for sailing vessels to carry lights on such a
night.
It is true, some of the witnesses on the part of the Neptune
speak of a black cloud in the eastern horizon, which obscured
the iiew from vessels going in that direction. But the allegation is not maintained by the evidence to an extent that would
justify us in attributing to it any material importance.
Upon the whole, we are satisfied the decree below is right,
and must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented from the opinion of the
court in this case, and also in that of Newton v. Stebbins.
For his opinion, see the conclusion of the last-mentioned case,
which follows the present.
Order.
This cause came. on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and was* argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs anddamages-at
the rate of six per centum per annuni.

ISAAC NEWTON, CLAIMIANT OF

STEADIBOAT NEW JERSEY,

APPELLANT,

v. JOHN H. STEBBINS.
Where a sailing vessel was descending the Hudson River with but a trifling wind,
and chiefly by the force of the current, and came into collision with a steamer
ascending the river, the question in the case was, whether or not the accident happened, notwithstanding every proper precautionary measure had been taken on
the part of the steamboat to pass the sloop in safety, in consequence of an improper movement of that vessel by the mismanagement and unskilfulness of the
persons in charge of her. If the sailing vessel kept her course, it was the duty of
the steamboat to avoid her. The evidence showing that the steamer did not take

