DECRMKER TERM,1850.

609

The United States v. IVAuteriye et al.

be done, it follows, of course,-that the trial by jury, and the
requisite as to citizenship of parties, 6rdained both by the Constitution and laws, may be abolished by the mere will of -persons interested, or by the fiat of a tribunal by which neither
eitizenship nor trial by jury is held in regard. It would be difficult to adduce a more striking example of the irregularities
here pointed out, than ig furnished by one of the cases now
before us, -that of Newton v. Stebbins. This is a case which
the evidence shows to have occurred between citizens of the
same.State, upon the narrow waters, and far within the interior
of the State; and"necessarily, therefore, within the body of a
county of the State. It presents within that locality an instance of simple tort, the proper subject of trespass or case at
common law; yet this case, without regard to locality or citizenship, is wrested from the tribunals of the State and the
common law modes of trial, and transferred to a tribunal
whose peculiar and appropriate jurisdiction, we are told by the
English authorities, attaches only *here there is no vicinage
from which the pais can be summoned. I am'. compelled,
therefore, to, deny to the admiralty, the constitutional authority
to take cognizance. of these. cases.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard oi the transcript of the rec.
ord from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decreee of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is 'hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages pt, the
rate of six per centum per annum.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, b. JEAN BAPTISTE D'AuTERIVE

AND

OTHERS, HEIRS AND REESENTATIVES OF THE LATE JEAN ANTOINE
BERNARD D'AuTERIvE.
Following out the principles applie& to the construction of treaties in the eases of
United States v. Reynes, and Davis v. The Police Jury of Concordia, in 8 Howard,
this court now decides that a grant of land in Louisiana, issued by the representative of the king of France in 1765, was void; the Province of Louisiana having
been ceded by the king of France to the king of Spain in 1762.
The title to the land described in this void grant was vested, therefore, in the king of
Spain, and remained in him until the treaty of St. Ildefonso. It then passed to
France, and by the treaty of Paris became vested in the United States.
None of the acts of Congress have confirmed this grant.
The act of 1805 (2 Stat. at Large, 324) required three things in order to effect a con-

610

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

firmation. 1st. That the parties should be residents. 2d. That the Indian title
should have been extinguished. 3d. That the land should have been actually inhabited and cultivated by the grantees, or for their use. In the present case these
conditions were not complied with.
The act of May 26, 1824, in part refnacted by the act of June 17, 1844 (5 Stat.
at Large, 676), did not create any new rights, or enlarge those previously existing; but only allowed claims to be presented to the court which would otherwise
have been barred.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana.
It was a petition presented to the District Court under the
act of 1824, relating to land titles in Missouri, as revived and
made applicable to Louisiana by the act of 1844.
The history of the title claimed by the heirs of D'Auterive,
so far as it may be necessary to explain the opinion of the
court, was as follows.
A copy of the following grant, issued in 1765, was certified
by the register of the land-office at New Orleans to be found
upon the records in his possession, and forming part of the archives of the office.
" Charles Philippe Aubry, Chevalier of the Royal and Military
Order of St. Louis, commanding for the King in Louisiana,
and Denis Nicholas Foucault, being the Intendant Commissary of this Province of Louisiana.
44Upon the demand made by Messrs. D'Auterive and Masse,
partners, to grant to them'a parcel of land named La Prairie
du Vermilion, bounded east by the River Des Tortues and the
Lake Du Tasse, north by the Mauvais Bois, west by the River
Vermilion, and south by a muddy prairie, considering their
petition above, and in other part, and for consideration of the
cession made by them to the Acadian families, recently arrived
in this Province, of the land occupied by them during a long
period, in the Attakapas, and in consideration also of the advantages which may result for this capital of the great establishment in vacheries that they propose themselves to do on
the said land named La Prairie du Vermilion, by the quantity of cattle they may bring to market in a short period, we
have conceded, and do concede, to them, by these presents, the
said land, for them and their heirs, to enjoy and dispose of the
same in full ownership and usufruct, as a thing belonging to
them, except against titles or possession anterior to these to
the contrary; provided that said land lies on this side of the
limits which have been established of the French and Spanish
possessions in this part of the country; dnd provided, also, that
they do deliver to us the titles of the land which they have
ceded to the Acadian families, and also under the conditions

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

611

The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

that one year from this date they shall establish the said
vacherie; in default whereof the said land shall become part
of the king's domain, who may dispose of the same as if the
said concession had never been granted, and also with the burden by them to support and pay the seigneurial rights, if any
hereafter be established in this colony. We also reserve for his
Majesty all the timber necessary for the construction of forts,
stores, and other public works that he has ordered to be done,
or may order in the future, even for the refitting and careening
of his men-of-war, whenever the same will be necessary; and
also the necessary ground for the royal highways and fortifications.
"Given in New Orleans, under the seals of our arms and the
countersign of our secretaries, the 2d of March, 1765.
(Signed,)
AUBRY AND FOUCAULT.
"Countersigned, - SOUBIE & DUVERGE."
The decision of the court being that this grant was invalid
when made, it is not necessary to trace out the assignment of
his share from Masse to D'Auterive, by which it was alleged
that the latter became the sole proprietor.
On the 6th of February, 1835, Congress passed an act (4
Stat. at Large, 749), entitled " An Act for the final adjustment
of claims to lands in, the State of Louisiana."
By this act, claims recognized by former laws as valid, but
which had not been confirmed, were to be presented to the register and receiver of the land-office where the lafids lie, with
the evidence in support of the same, who were to report the
same to the Secretary of the Treasury, with their opinion of
the validity of each claim, and which report was to be laid before Congress, with the opinion of the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office touching the validity of tth' respective
claims.
This claim was presented to the register and receiver, together with a great mass of evidence in its support, which it
is not necessary here to state. On account of the voluminous
nature of the papers, the claim Nvas not included in a report
made by the commissioner on the 15th of May, 1840. But
in February, 1842, the then register and receiver took up the
subject, and made a report thereon to the Secretary of the
Treasury, from which the following is an extract: "The peculiar circumstances which seem to involve this
claim, its unwarrantable neglect, firftly by the heirs themselves, and lastly by the former boards of this office, anl the
unsuccessfut efforts of the Honorable Edward Livingston to
obtain any action of Congress upon it, and the very heavy

612

SUPREME CCURT.
The United States v. D'Auterive et aL

charges and expenses which the heirs have been at in the protection and prosecution of their rights, have induced us to examine with the greatest circumspection and attention all the
documents of title filed in this claim. We have given it throughout a mature and deliberate investigation, and, seeing the pacific views of the claimants in their renouncement of their rights
to any part of the said land, to which a title has been obtained,
either by French or Spanish grant, private entry, or otherwise,
that may fall within the limits of their grant, and from the
fact that the patent mentioned in this claim corresponds with
one on the abstract of patents ertified by the register of New
Orleans, for the use of this office, consequently making it a complete title in form i with no act of the sovereign remaining to be
done that the title of the land might be fully vested-in D'Auterive, think that a confirmation of such a title is scarcely necessary, though it may be useful. Congress never asserted the right
to annul, restrict, or question any genuine complete grant which
has been made by the former governments; they were regarded
as sacred documents, and respecte d by.the treaty of cession; it
was not obligatory on the holders -of complete patents to file
them with the registers and the receivers. By the fifth section
of the act of the 2d of March, 1805, the registers and receivers
were requested to make a report on all complete French and
Spanish grants, the evidence of which, though not thus filed,
may be found on record in the public records of such grants;
it was evident the reports on such titles were required for the
purpose of .ascertaining what lands had ceased'to belong to the
public domain.
"If the intention of Congress had been to subject these
claims to their scrutiny, they would have required of the owners to file them; if the board, on finding in the public records
the evidence of a complete grant, would have made any other
than a favorable report on it, Congress would never have permitted such a decision; the boards were only to decide on the
simple recorded proof, that is, the official copy of the grant, and
were to consider it as conclusive evidence; it has accordingly
been decided by the Supreme Court of this State, as well as
the United States court, that a complete grant is complete
evidence of title without any confirmation; and viewing the
grant of the claimants, in this report, as of a similar character,
and perfectly satisfied as regards the sale from Masse to
D'Auterive, the testimony in proof thereof being ample and
complete, we cannot do otherwise than recommend this claim
for confirmation 'to the full extent of land that may be found
comprised within the boundaries laid down in the concession."
S

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

613

The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

These proceedings were referred, in pursuance of the law, to
the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, who gave his
opinion that the claim was not valid. A report was then made
to Congress, but no action was there had upon the subject.
Under the act of Congress passed on the 17th of June, 1844,
entitled "An Act to provide for the adjustment of land claims
in the States of Missouri, Arkansas, and Louisiana," the heirs
of D'Auterive filed a petition in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana, on the 16th of June, 1846.
Attached to the petition was a copy of the report of the commissioners above mentioned. The petition concluded as follows -

"The petitioners show, that it appears from said statement
that the said Bernard D'Auterive occupied said land as a stockfarm, for which purpose it had been granted, up to the time of
his death, which occurred in 1776; that the said D'Auterive
left a widow and four small children; that in 1779 his widow
married Jean Baptiste Degruy; that the said Degruy and his
wife continued to occupy said land as a stock-farm, and to cultivate a s.-all part thereof, until 1784, when they removed to
the Mississippi; that thereafter the said land, and even the
stock kept thereon, were utterly neglected by said Degruy;
that in consequence thereof,- and on account of their ignorance
of said claim, the Spanish authorities in Louisiana granted a
considerable, and the most valuable, part of said land to other
persons; and that the petitioners, considering the good faith
with which said titles were acquired, and to prevent the delays
and expenses of litigation, claimed the confirmation of so much
only of the aforesaid grant as was not held by titles emanating from the Spanish government and confirmed by the United
States, and had not been sold or otherwise disposed of by the
United States.
"And the petitioners show, that they now again claim the
confirmation of said grant with the same restrictions; that as
the petitioners do not intend to interfere with the rights of any
persons holding portions of said grant under confirmed Spanish titles, or under purchases frbra the United States, it is unnecessary to cite said persons; and that, besides them, there
are no other persons in possession of portions of said grant
except certain settlers, who occupy small parts thereof with
the written consent of the petitioners.
"Wherefore the petitioners pray, that the United States of
America, by their District Attorney for the District of Louisiana, be cited; that the aforesaid grant be declared valid and
confirmed to the petitioners; that thereafter the Surveyor-Gen52
VOL. X.

614

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

eral of the United States for the State of Louisiana be ordered
to survey said lands; that he be further ordered to certify, on
the plats and certificates of said survey, what parts of said
grant are held under confirmed Spanish titles, and what part,
if any, of said grant has been sold by the United States, together with the quantity thereof. And the petitioners further
pray, that it may be decreed that they, their heirs and legal
representatives, shall have the right to enter the quantity of
land so certified to have been sold or disposed of by the United
States in any land-office in the State of Louisiana.
(Signed,)
L. JANIN, of Counsel!'
On the 10th of November, 1846, Thomas J.Durant, the District Attorney of the United States, filed an answer, denying
all the allegations of the petition.
In April, 1847, the depositions of sundry witnesses were
taken by the plaintiffs before -N. R. Jennings, Commissioner,
and in December, 1847, the cause came on for trial before the
District Court.
On the 13th of June, 1848, the District Court gave the following judgment: "The court having taken this cause as above entitled under
consideration, and having maturely considered the same, doth
now, for reasons set forth at length and on file, order, adjudge,
and decree, that .he petitioners recover the land claimed in their
petition, and described in the original grant or concession to
them, as exhibited .on pages 180 and 181 of the record of
French grants; the same having been delivered at the cession
of Louisiana to the government of the United States, and
deposited in the United States land-office in the city of New
Orleans.
"And the court doth further order and decree, that the Surveyor-Genera, of the State of Louisiana do survey the land so
decreed to petitioners as aforesaid, and certify on the plats and
certificates of survey all such parts of the said grant as may
have been sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States.
"And the court doth further order and decree, that the petitioners, or their heirs or legal representatives, shall have the
right to enter the quantity of land that may be so certified to
'have been sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States,
in any land-office of the State of Louisiana, according to the
provisions of the eleventh section of the act of the 26th of
May, 1824.
"Judgment rendered June lath, 11848. Judgment signed
June 17th, 1848.
(Signed,)
THEO. H. MCCALEH, [§EAL.]
U S. fud e."

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

615

The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

From this decree the United States appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Crittenden (Attorney-General),.for the
United States, and Mr. Tanin, for the appellees.
Mr. Crittenden made the following points.
I. That the said alleged grant is void, having been made by
the French authorities after the Province of Louisiana had been
ceded by France to Spain.
By the secret treaty of Fontainebleau, of the 3d of November, 1762, the Province of Louisiana was ceded by France to
Spain, and on the 21st of April, 1764, Louis the Fifteenth
communicated what had been done to D'Abadie, the directorgeneral and commandant of the Province, ordering him to deliver it up to his Catholic Majesty. The treaty has never been
published, but the letter to D'Abadie will be found in the Appendix to 1 Clarke's Land Laws, 976. This letter was printed
in New Orleans, in October, 1764, and the intelligence of the
cession of the Province caused great commotion and dissatisfaction among the people. D'Abadie having died, Aubrey,
who had been commandant of the troops and one of the council, assumed the administration of the government and, it is
alleged, made this grant to the ancestor of the petitioners on
the 2d of March, 1765. Ulloa, the first Spanish governor, arrived at a subsequent period, but was compelled to retire from
the country, and was succeeded by O'Rielly, under whose administration Spanish authority was secured. The history of
the events of this period will be -found in the fourteenth chapter of the first volume of Martin's Louisiana.
II. That Spain never acknowledged nor recognized as valid
the alleged grant thus made in derogation of her rights and authority.
This is sufficiently evidenced by the fact, that her authorities
granted the greatest part of the same land to other persons.
That such grants had been made is admitted by the petitioners, but the force of the conclusion thence arising issought to
be evaded by saying that they were made in ignorance of this'
claim. There is, however, no pretence for such a supposition,
for the very book of records on which the petitioners rely to
establish the making of their grant must have been in the
hands of the Spanish authorities, and come frdm them into the
possession of the United States. The making of. so large a
grant could not be concealed. The fact is further corroborated
by D'Auterive having afterwards, in October, 1775, received a
grant of a league of land from Governor Unzaga, in the neighborhood of the alleged grant. Besides, the acts of the parties
show that all claim was abandoned.

616,

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. D'Anterive et al.

III. But if the alleged grant was made by competent authority, itis void for uncertainty in the description of the land
granted.
IV. That there is no sufficient evidence of the making of the
alleged grant, or of the conveyance by Masse to D'Auterive.
V. That the court below had no jurisdiction in this case.
Mr. Janin, for the appellees, made the following points.
L It is contended that the copy of the grant which is in
evidence is not sufficient proof of its genuineness. This copy
was taken from the record of ryench grants in the land-office
at New Orleans, and is attested by the Register of that office.
The appellees could not expect this objection, since this copy
was admitted in evidence by consent of parties, whereby they
were relieved from the necessity either of producing the original or of provilg its loss. But were the point open for discus.
sion, it would be easily met by the evidence. The copy was
taken from the only record of -French grants known to exist in
the land-office. This record was always considered as genuine by the successive registers of the land-office, and referred
to by them in making their reports on claims to Congress.
We have the testimony of an old citizen of New Orleans,
who, under the Spanish government, was the private secretary of Governor Gayoso, and occasionally was employed
in the Spanish land-office, Which was under the control
of the Secretary of the goverhment. He recognizes the signature of Governor Gayoso, at the end of this and the oth.r
French and Spanish records in the land-office, and presumes,
with reason, that they were signed by the Governor when he
delivered the land-office to the Intendant Morales, in obedience to the royal order of October 22, 1798 (2 White's Rec.
497). This is beyond doubt one of the records referred to in
Morales's letters of October 16, 1797, and March 2, 1799
(2 Land Laws, 541, 550); in the letter of the Secretary of the
Treasury of 1805 (2 Laws, Institutions, Opinions, &c. 669);
and in the fifthsection of the act of Congress of MIarch 2, 1805
(1 Land Laws, 520); and the authenticity of this record was
fully recognized by the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the case
of Lavergne's Heirs v. Elkins, 17 La. Rep. 231.
II. It is not objected 'that the description of the land in the
grant is not sufficiently clear and definite. The land is described as follows: - A tract of land called the prairie of the
Vermilion, bounded on the east by the River (now- called
Bayou) Tortue and Lake Tasse; at the north by the "mauvais
bois" (low woodland); on the west by the River (now called
Bayou) Vermilion; and at the south bya soft prairie. These

DECEMBE:'

TERM, 1850.

617

The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

are all natural, well-known boundaries. Bayou Tortue and
Bayou Vermilion are considerable watercourses, and are still
known by the same names; so is Lake Tasse. The land
granted is a prairie; its northern boundary is the first woodland- a low swamp- to the north of the prairie, and its
southern boundary is the soft or salt marsh which skirts the
whole sea-shore of Western Louisiana. The inspection of any
map of Louisiana can leave no doubt that a surveyor would
not experience the least difficulty in locating the grant.
III. The third objection is, that, the grant being complete
and perfect,, it requires no confirmation, and could not be made
the subject of a suit against the United States under the act
of June 17, 1844, and the revived act of May 26, 185 1.
The act of 1824 refers in terms to lands claimed "by virtue
of any French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant, or order
of survey .....
.. which might have been perfected into a complete title, under and in conformity to the laws, usages, and
customs of the government under which the same originated,
had not the sovereignty of the country been transferred to the
United States." This last phrase contemplates evidently incomplete titles only, and refers therefore only to that part of
the first phrase which speaks of incomplete titles, that is, "warrants and orders of survey." It could not refer to the owners
of grants, whose title was already complete. And' yet in the
beginning of the section the holders of grants are permitted to
file their claims for adjudication, though they might not be
compelled to do so. This is not the only instance in the legislation of Congress which hfforded to persons claiming under
complete grants an opportunity of having their titles and possessions quieted by a decision of the officers of the federal government. The fourth section of the act of March 2, 1805 (1
Land Laws, 519), declares that persons claiming under complete grants may,and those claiming under incomplete grants
shall, file them, &c.,,&c. Nor was this a work of supererogation. By the cession, the United States acquired the dominium, all lands not previously granted were considered and
treated as public property, and the grantees were put upon
proof of their titles. It is true, that, by the fifth section of the
same act, the boards of commissioners were directed to "decide in a summary way ..... .on all complete French or
Spanish grants, the evidence of which, tho'igh not thus filed
(by the claimants), may be found of record on the public records of such grants." Had this law been obeyed, the claimants
under complete grants would have been spared infinite losses
and suffering. Bat it remained a dead letter in practice. The
commissioners and their successors acted upon no claim,
52 *

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

though found in these records, if it was not formally filed with
a claim for adjudication, and of claims exceeding a league
square they were expressly prohibited to take cognizance.
Holders of large grants were in reality remediless, until the
later acts of Congress, reopening the land-offices for the adjudication of claims, without restriction as to quantity. And as
the commissioners could only recommend their confirmation,
and as Congress always discarded large claims in Louisiana
in their confirmatory acts, the hopes of the claimants were still
deferred. It is thus that large grants of land in Louisiana
have uniformly proved a fatal inheritance to the descendants
of the old colonists, consuming their lives and fortunes in unceasing and fruitless efforts to obtain a hearing, while the best
portions of their lands fell a prey to the squatter. The only
remedy left to them, a remedy worse than the evil, was to
allow a portion of the land to be sold by the United States,
and then to bring suit for it, a process which had to be repeated in the case of each sale, and which yet d;d not protect the portion of the claim not immediately included in the
decision. The officers of the land department uniformly treated as public land whatever had not been recovered by a judgment. This crying evil could not be unknown to Congress,
and we submit that the acts of 1824 and 1844 were destined
to remedy it, and that it could not be the intention of Congress to treat complete grants less favorably than incomplete
ones.
And again, nay it not be said that this grant requires a
survey to perfect at least the possession of the grantee ? And
the government surveyors

would

not make oi sanction a

survey, unless the claim was recognized by the government.
This grant again required the grantees to abandon the
lands they had previously owned; in compensation of which
they obtained the new grant, and to establish a stock-farm.
Was it then not incumbent upon them to show that they
claimed nothing under the older grants, a negative proof,
which they could only make by asserting the abandonment
and challenging the contrary proof, and that they had established a large stock-farm ?
It is obvious that the object of the appellees would be attained by a decision of this court, disclaiming jurisdiction, on
the ground that the grant is complete, and not embraced in the
act of 1824. A decision of the federal courts, and nothing less,
would be respected by the surveying department.
IV. It is finally contended that this grant is invalid because
it is dated the 2d of March, 1765, when Louisiana had been
ceded to Spain in 1763. It is well known that Spain did not

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

619

The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

desire or attempt to take possession until 1769, up to which
time all the functions of the government were carried on by the
French- authorities. The French was the government de facto.
"Grants made by a government de facto are valid against the
state which had the right." .12 Peters, 748. The validity of
the acts of a government defacto has been acknowledged in
many decisions of this court. Delacroix v. Chamberlain, 12
Wheaton, 600; Pollock's Lessee v. Kibbe, 14 Peters, 364;
Keene v. McDonough, 8 Peters, 310; The Fama, 5 Rob. Adm.
113; 1 Kent's Com., Lect. VIII. To these familiar authorities a! striking instance may be added, drawn from modern
history. We quote from Lieber's Mlanual of Political Ethics,
Vol. I. p. 324: 1" When the Elector of Hesse returned in 1813
to his country, he declared the king of Westphalia, having
been a usurper, to have possessed no right of selling the domains, and therefore took possession of them -without any
restitution of the sums for which they had been purelbased,
Prussia acknowledged the sales which the same kingdom of
Westpbalia bad made of her domains. The Germanic Diet
decided against the Elector and for the purchasers, and when
that prince for years declined to yield to the Diet and all the
endeavors even of Austria were in vain, the Diet ordered the
troops of the neighboring members of the confederacy to
make the Elector comply with its decision."
History affords, probably, no instance of acts of a government de facto less questionable than those of the French
government in Louisiana between 1763 arid 1769. The
French were ready to deliver the colony, the Spaniards were
not ready to receive it; the French were not usurpers, nor the
antagonists of Spain, but depositaries of the power of Spain;
the wheels of government could not be arrested, and it was
one of its ordinary and legitimate functions to promote the
settlement of the Province, to develop her industry and to
secure her peace, by exchanging D'Auterive's lands on the Upper
Teche, where his stock had become troublesome to the new
colonists from Acadia, for pasture lands in a more remote and
still unsettled district. Neither this nor any other grant made
by the French after 1763 resembled the questionable policy of
the Spanish Intendant, -ho after 1803 sold lands in the disputed territory'to replenish a suffering treasury. The history
of the courts and of the land department offers no instance
of a grant made by the French after 1763 that was rejected
for want of authority. The question was discussed by the
Supreme Court in the case of Devall v. Chopin, 15 La. Rep.
575, and decided in favor of the power. Spain, after she took
possession, never questioned any of these grants; France held

620

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. D'Anterive et aL

the sovereignty between 1800 and 1803, and could not, if she
had taken possession, have contested the validity of the grants
of her former governors; the United States succeeded only to
the rights of France, and the United States at an early period,
in the important act of March 2d, 1805, distinctly recognized
the validity of the grants anterior to the 1st of October, 1809,
made by France and Spain, during the time those respective
governments had the actual possession of the colony. Possession, and not the bare right of sovereignty, was made the
test of authority.
We quote from the act of March 2d, 1805, 1 Land Laws, 518.
Sec. 1st. " Any person or persons, or the legal representatives
of any person or persons, who, on the 1st of October, in the
year 1800, were resident within' the territories ceded by the
French Republic to the United States, by the treaty of the
30th of April, 1803, and who had p ior to the said 1st day of
October, 1800, obtained from the Frt rch and Spanish governments, respectively, during the time either of said governments
had the actual possession of said territories, any duly registered
warrant or order of suryey," &c.
See. 4th. "Every pefson claiming lands in the above-mentioned territories, by virtue of any legal French and Spanish
grants, made and completed before the 1st of October, 1800,
and-during the time the government which made such grant
had the actual possession of the territories," &c.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees, as heirs of Jean Antoine Bernard D'Auterive,
claimed in the court below an extensive tract of land in the
county of Attakapas, the quantity of which land is not given,
though certain boundaries thereof are set forth in the instrument upon which these appellees prefer their claim. This instrument purports to be a grant from Charles Philippe Aubry,
Knight of the Rc.yal and M\filitary Order of St. Louis, Commakidant of the King in Louisiana, and Dionysius Nicholas
Foucault, filling the functions of director in that Province, to
Messrs. D'Auierive and Masse, and bearing date at New Orleans on the 2d day of March, 1765.
The proceedings for the establishment of this claim in the
court below were instituted under the authority of an act of
Congress of May 26th, 1824, entitled " An Act to enable
claimants to land within the State of Missouri and Territory
of Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity of their
claims" ; which law Was in part regnacted on the 17th of June,
1844, and extended in its operation to the State of Louisiana.
(Vide .5 Stat. at Large, 676.) The purposes and the effect of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

621

The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

law of 1824, with reference both to the claims and the proceedings embraced within its provisions, have been heretofore
They were especially considered at
examined by this cou.
the last term, in the case of the United States v. Reynes, 9
Howard, 127, and the following conclusions were then distinctly enunciated as implied necessarily in a just interpretation of that statute. Thus (pp. 146, 147), in speaking of the
statute of 1824, revived by the act of 1844, this court explicitly
declare, that, "9with respect to that interpretation of these acts.
of Congress which would expound them as conferring on applicants new riglits not previously existing, we would remark,
that such an interpretation accdrds neither with the language
.nor the obvious spirit of these laws; for if we look to the language of the act of 1824, we find that the grants, surveys, &c.,
which are authorized to be brought before the courts, are those
only which had been legally made, granted, or issued, and
'which were also protected by treaty. The legal integrity of
these 'claims (involving necessarily the competency of the authority which conferred them) Was a qualification inseparably
associated by the law with that of their being protected by
treaty. And as to the spirit and intention of the law, had it
designed to create new rights, or to enlarge others previously
existing, the natural and obvious means of so doing would
have been 'a direct declaration to that effect: certainly not a
provision placing these alleged rights in an adversary position
t6 the government, to be vindicated by mere dint of evidence
not to be resisted. The provision of the second section of the
act of 1824, declaring that petitions presented under that act
shall be conducted according to the rules of a court of equity;
should be understood rather as excluding the technicalities of
proceedings in courts, than as varying in any degree the rights
of parties litigant; as designed to prevent delays in adjudicating upon titles, as, is farther shown in another part of the
same sentence, where it is declared, that these petitions shal
be tried without, continuance, unless for cause shown. The
limitation, too, maintained as to the character of claims, and
that imposed upon the courts in adjudicating upon them, is
farther evinced in that part of the same section which says,
that the court shall hear and determine- all questions relative to
the title of the claimants, the extent, locality, and boundaries
of the claim, and by final decree shall settle and determine the
question of the validity of the title according to the law of
nations, the stipulations of any treaty, and proceedings under
the same, the several acts of Congress, and the laws and ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to have
been derived."

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

By the meaning and directions of the statute of 1824, as thus
expounded, the claim before us must be judged; and the next
step in our investigation leads us to consider it as controlled
by the law of nations, and the force of treaty stipulations construed in conformity with that law.
The land which*is the subject of this controversy was, according to the terms of the instrument adduced by the appellees in the court below as the foundation of their title, granted
to their ancestor on the 2d day of March, in the year 1765.
On the 3d day of November, 1762, by a treaty, or, as it is
termed in the language of the king, by "a special act" done
at Fontainebleau, Louis the Fifteenth ceded to the king of
Spain the entire Provin~e of Louisiana, including the island
and city of New Orleans. The character and extent of this
act of cession, as evihced by the instructions from the French
king, dated at Versailles, April 21st, 1764, should be noted in
this.place, as they are decisive of the relative positions of the
parties to that act, and of the extent of their powers posterior
thereto, over the territories or persons comprised within its
provisions. Nothing surely can be more comprehensive or absolute than the transfer announced by the king of France, or
the declaration of his relinquisnment of all power or rights in
the~subject transferred. The language of the French king to
D'Abadie, Director-General and Commandant of Louisiana, is
as follows :-" Having ceded to my very dear and best beloved cousin, the king of Spain, and to his successors, in full
property, purely and simply and without exceptions, the whole
country known by the name of Louisiana"; he proceeds to
command his Director-General, that, on the receipt of his instructions, "whether they come to your hands by the officers
of his Catholic Majesty, or directly by such French vessels as
may be charged with the same, you are to deliver up to the
governor or officer appointed for that purpose by the king
of Spain, the said country and colony of Louisiana, and iie
posts thereon depending, likewise the city and island of New
Orleans, in such state and condition as they shall be found to
be in on the day of the said cession; being willing in all time
to come that they shall belong to his Catholic Majesty, to be
governed and administered by his governors and officers, and
be possessed by him in full property, and without exceptions."
The cases of the United States v. Reynes, and of Davis v.
The Police Jury of Concordia, decided at the last term of this
court, devolved upon it the necessity for a particular examination of the rules and principles applicable to the construction
of treaties; and in the adjudication of the cases above mentioned, the following rules are either explicitly affirmed or

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

623

The United States v. D' uterive et al.

necessarily implied: - That compacts between governments or
nations, like those between individuals, should be interpreted
according to the natural, fair, and received acceptation of the
terms in which they are expressed. That the obligation of
such compacts, unless suspended by some condition or stipulation therein contained, commences with their execution, by the
authorized agents of the contracting parties; and that their
subsequent ratification by the principals themselves has relation to the period of signature. That any act or proceeding,
therefore, between the signing and the ratification of a treaty,
by either of the contracting parties, in contravention of the
stipulations of the compact, would be a fraud upon the -other
party, and could have no validity consistently with a recognition of the compact itself. As a regular corollary from these
principles, and as deddbible from the law of reason and the
law of nations, it was ruled in the cases just mentioned, that a
nation which has ceded away her sovereignty and dominion
over a territory could with respect to that territory rightfully
exert no power by which the dominion and sovereignty so
ceded would be impaired or diminished. Vide 9 Howard, 148,
149, and 289, 290, 291.
In the cases just cited, and particularly in that of the United
States v. Reynes, it became proper to examine the rights of a
ceding and retiring government as a government de facto over
the territory ceded. This examination was induced by the circumstance, that the claimant against the United States rested
his pretensions in a great degree upon the positioii, that after
the treaty of St. Ildefonso, and anterior to an actual delivery to
the French authorities, the government of Spain as a government de facto retained the rights of sovereignty and dominion
over the Territory of Louisiana, and, as incident thereto, the
power of granting away the public domain. But this court
distinguished between the proceedings of an adversary government, acting in the character and capacity of an independent
perfect sovereignty, unaffected by any stipulation, and acts
cone in fraud or in violation of express concessions or compacts.
It said that the former, as the acts of a government de facto,
might be respected and sanctioned by a succeeding power;
the latter could impose no obligation to respect them, because
they would have been performed in bad faith, and in violation
of acknowledged rights existing in others. Admitting the absolute verity of the document under which the appellees deduce
their title, and about which no serious question appears to
have been raised, can the validity of this title be sustained consistently with the rules and principles propounded above, and
in the cases to which reference has been made? The grant

624

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

from Aubry and Foucault, the commandant and the director
of the Province of Louisiana, to the andestor of the appellees,
bears date on the 2d of March, 1765, between two and three
years posterior in time to the cession of the Province by France
to Spain, and rather more than ten months after. the 6rder
from the French monarch for the actual delivery of the territory
to the Spanish authorities. Under these circumstances, then,
the act of the French officers must be regarded as wholly unauthorized and inoperative to vest any title in the ancestor of
the appellees, those acts being inconsistent with the existing
relations between the kingdoms of France and Spain. It is
true that Spain, during the continuance of her sovereignty and
possession in Louisiana, might have adopted and confirmed
this grant, but no such recognition thereof by Spain is shown
or pretended; so far from there being proof of such recognition,
it appears that a large portion of the lands comprised within
this grant was bestowed by the Spanish government, upon
other grantees. Neither is there in the record proof or allegation, that, during the short reign of the French republic under
the treaty of retrocession, the claim of D'Auterive was sanctioned, or even brought to the notice of that republic.
It follows, then, from the view of this case here taken, that
the claim of the appellees cannot be sustained upon any general and controlling principle of the law of nations, nor upon
any stipulation between -the powers holding the Territory of
Louisiana prior to its-transfer to the United States. The fate
of this claim must depend exclusively upon the authority and
the acts of the government of this country, and we will now
consider how far it is affected by those acts and that authority.
It has been heretofore repeatedly ruled by this court, that the
control and recognition of claims like that now bifore us were
subjects belonging peculiarly to the political power of the government; and that, in the adjudication of tihose claims, the
courts of the United States expound. and enforce the ordinances of the political power. Guided by these rules, and looking
to the acts of the legislature, we find it declared by the act of
Congress. of March 26, 1804, § 14 (2 Stat. at Large, 287),
"that' all grants for lands within the territories ceded by the
French republic to the United States by the treaty of the 30th
of April, 1803, the title whereof was, at the date of the trecty
of St Ildefonso, in the crown or government of Spain,. and
every act and proceeding subsequent thereto, of whatsoevqr nature, towards the obitaining any grant, title, or claim to such
lands, and under whatsoever authority transacted or pretended,
be, and the same are hereby declared to be, and frbm the beginning to have been,.null, void/and of no effect in law or in

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

625

The United States v. D]'Auterive et aL

equity." Within thp comprehensive language of this provision
the case before us necessarily falls; as the inefficiency of the
French concession, after the treaty of Fontainebleau, to convey
any title, left the title in the government of Spain, where it remained up to, and at the date of, the treaty of St. Ildefonso.
The reservation in the proviso to the section just quoted, in
favor of actual settlers under the laws, customs, and usages of
Spain, cannot include the case under consideration, as this is
not an instance of a title asserted upon any such laws or
usages, or founded on mere settlement; but one professing to
be founded upon the grant made by the French commandant,
independently of the authority of Spain, and exceeding in extent the quantity of land awarded to settlers by the proviso
above mentioned. But it has been contended in the argument
filed on behalf of the appellees, that, if any defect could have
been alleged against their title by reason of the absence of
power in either the French or Spanish governments to make.
the grant, such defect has been cured by the legislation of Congress; and in support of this provision we have been referred
to the act of March 2, 1805 (2 Stat. at Large, 324). The
first and fourth sections of that act have not been fully quoted
in the argument of the appellees, and it may be that an omission to examine them throughout has produced the strange
misapprehension of those provision which seems to have existed with those who rely upon their operation. Thus from the
first section of the act of 1805 the following portion is quoted:
"Any person or persons, or the legal representatives of any
person or persons, who, on the 1st of October in the year
1800, were resident within the, territories ceded by the .French
republic to the United States, by the treaty of the 30th of
April, 1803, and who had, prior to the said 1st day of October,
1800, obtained from the French and Spanish governments, respectively, during the time either of said governments had the
actual possession of said territories, any duly registered warrant or order of survey,".&c.; but this quotation omits the following terms, which essentially control every part of the see"tion that precedes them; viz. "for lands lying within the said
territories to which the Indian title had been extinguished, and
which were on that*day actually inhabited and cultivated by
such person or persons, of for his or their use."
The first requisite prescribed by this section of the law as
necessary to give validity to titles resting upon the actual territorial occupation of the French or Spanish authorities is, that
the grantees or their representatives should, on the 1st day of
October, 1800, be residents within the territories ceded by the
French republic to the United States. The next condition im-

VoL. x.

53

626

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. D'Auterive et al.

posed by this statute is, that the Indian title to such lands
should have been extinguished. And thirdly, that the lands
thus granted should have been, on the 1st day of October,
1800, actually inhabited and cultivated by the grantees, or for
their use. *Without inquiring into the fulfilment of the second
of these conditions, or into the necessity for its fulfilment, it
will be seen that the first and the third, made essential by the
9tatute, have been entirely unperformed. Thus it is stated in
the petition of the appellees, that as early as 1784 the family
of D'Auterive removed from the State of Louisiana. It is nowhere proved, or even alleged, that at any subsequent period
they returned to this land, much less that in 1800, or at any
other time posterior to 1784, they resided upon the same, or by
themselves or by their agents, or through any instrumentality
of theirs, cultivated this land. On the contrary, either of these
inferences is irresistibly excluded by -the statement in the petition, that, after the removal of the family of D'Auterive, much
of this land was, by the Spanish government, during its possession of the country, granted to other persons. The alleged
infancy of the children of D'Auterive in the year 1784, even if
there had been a saving for the benefit of infants against the
requisites of the statute, could scarcely authorize a presumption
in their favor, after 4 lapse of more than half a century, viz.
from 1784 to 1837, during which period this claim has been permitted to sleep.
The fourth section of the act of Congress, also quoted in the
argument for the appellees, if applicable in any sense to their
pretensions, certainly adds nothing to their intrinsic force. This
section is a simple requisition, that persons claiming lands
within the Territory of Louisiana, by virtue of any legal French
or Spanish grant made prior to the 1st day of October, 1800,
may, and persons claiming lands in the said territories by virtue of any grant or incomplete title bearing date subsequently
to the 1st day of October, 1800, shall, before the 1st day of
March, 1806, deliver to the register of the land-office or recorder of land-titles Within whose district the land may be, a notice
in writing, stating the nature and extent of his claim., together
with h plat of the tract or tracts so claimed; and shall, also, on
or before that day, deliver ta the register or recorder, for the
purpose of being recorded, every grant, order or survey, deed
of conveyance, or other written evidence of his claim. .This
section then proceeds to declare, as a penalty for noncompliance with its directions, that all the rights of the claimant derived from the first two sections of the act (embracing all grants
,founded upon mere territorial occupation by France or Spain),
shall become void, and for ever after be barred; and that no in-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

627

Robinson et aL v.'Minor et al.

complete grant, wanrant, order of survey, deed of conveyance,
or other written evidence, which shall not be so recorded, shall
ever be considered or admitted as evidence in any court of the
United States, against -any grant derived from the United
States. But for the act of Congress of the 6th of February,
1835, entitled "An Act for the final adjustment of claims to
lands in the State of Louisiana," the fourth section of the
act of 1805 would have operated as a complete bar to the
claim of the appellees from the 1st day of March, 1806. The
act of 1835 removes that bar so far as to permit, within the
space of two years from its date, the prosecution of claims similar to that of the appellees, but this act accomplishes nothing
beyond this permission. It imparts no merit or strength to any
claim which such claim did n6t previously possess. Upon a
view of this case, then, we think that the decision of the District Court should be reversed, and the petition of the appellees
dismissed, and that decree is accordingly hereby reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Cburt of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and wa argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the of iion of this court, that the title of
the petitioners is null and void. 'Whereupoh, it is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of
the said District Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to dismiss
the petition of the claimants in this cause.

MERRITT -M. ROBINSON AND MARGUERITE 'HIs WIFE, AURORE GAYoso, FERNANDO GAYoso, AND FELICITE GAYoso, APPELLANTS, V.
WDI. J. MINOR, JADInS C. WILKINS, AND HENRY CHOTARD, EXECUTORS OF THE LAST WILL AND TESTA-IENT OF KATHARINE MINOR,
DECEASED, FRANCES CHOTARD, KATHARINE L. WILKINS, AND WIM.

J.MINOR.
By the treaty of 1795, between the United States and Spain, Spain admitted that
she had no title
to land north of the thirty-first degree of north latitude, and her
previous grants of land so situated were of course void. The country, thus be1onging to Georgia, was ceded to the United States in 1802, with a reservation
that all persons who were actual settlers on the 27th of October, 1795, should have
their grants confirmed. (See also 3 Howard, 750.)
On the 3d of MAarch, 1803, Congress passed an act (2 Stat. at Large, 229) establish-

