DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

541

Villalobos et al. v. The United States.
THE

Town

OF EAST HARTFORD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v. THE

HART-

FORD BRIDGE CoirA Y.
The decision in the preceding case, between the same paries, affirmed.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Errors for the State of
Connecticut.
The facts in this case are the same as in the preceding. It
was argued by the same counsel and at the same time.
MIr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been settled by the opinion just delivered in
the writ of error on the bill in chancery.
This action was at law, for damages caused by the town of
East Hartford in continuing to use the ferry to the injury of
the bridge company, after it had been twice discontinued by
the legislature. Having no legal right to do this, as has beenx
already decided, East Hartford is liable for those damages on
the ground explained in the other case, and the judgment below must therefore be affirmed.
Crder.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of Errors within and for the State
of Connecticut, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,.
that the judgment of the said Supreme Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

Joii

ARGOTE VILLALOBOS, MARIE ROSE, AND FRAmioIs FELIX, MARQUIS DE FOUGERES, A 'I'ELLANTS, V. THE UNITED STATES.

In October, 1317, Ceppinger, the Governor of Florida, issued a grant giving the
grantee permission to 11build a water saw-mill on the creek of the River St. John's
named Trout Creek, and also to make use of the pine-trees which ae comprehended in a square of.five miles, which is granted to him," &c.
The deputy surveyor surveyed 16,000 acres of land it three different tracts, the
nearest of which to Trout Creek was thirty miles off; and this chafige of location
nevex received the sanction of the Governor.
The decision, of this court have uniformly been, that the survey must be in reasonable conformity to the grant, whereas the one in question is not.
The surveyor-general hl no authority to chlange the location of the grant, and split
up the surveys, as there was no authority in the grant to go elsewhere in casethere should be a deficiency of vacant land at the place indicated by the grant.
The lands on Trout Creek were poor, and those which were surveyed were of the
46
VOL. X.

