DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

51]

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

Tns Towx OF EAST

HARTFORD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. Tmi HART-

FORD BRIDGE CoMuPANY.

From the year 1681 to 1783, a franchise in the ferry ever the Connecticut River belonged to the town of Hartford, situated on the west bank of the river.
In 1783, the legislature incorporated the town of East Hartford, and granted to it
one half of the ferry during the pleasure of the General Assembly.
In 1808, a company was incorporated to build a bridge-across the river, which, being
erected, was injured and rebuilt in 1818, when the legislature resolved that the
ferry should be discontinued.
This act, discontinuing the ferry, is not inconsistent with that part of the Constitu.
tion of the United States which forbids the States from passing any law impairing
the obligation of contracts.
There was no contract between the State and the town of East Hartford, by which
the latter could claim a permanent right to the ferry. The nature of the subjectmatter of the grant, and the character of the parties to it, both show that it is not
such a contract as is beyond the interference of the legislature.
Besides, the town of EasC Hartford only held the ferry right during the pleasure of
the General Assembly, and in 1818 the latter expressed its pleasure that the ferry
should cease.
After the year 1818, the legislature passed several acts contradictory to each other,
alternately restoring and discontinuing the ferry. Those which restored the ferry
were declared to be unconstitutional by the State courts, upon the ground that the
act of 1818 had been passed to encourage the bridge company to rebuild their
bridge, which had been washed away. But these decisions are not properly before
this court in this case for revision.
The town of East Hartford, having no right to exercise the ferry privilege, may have
been correctly restrained, by injunction, from doing so, by the State court.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Errors for
the State of Connecticut.

The defendant in error filed its petition in the Superior
Court, holden at Hartford, for an injunction restraining the
town of East Hartford (plaintiff in error), its servants, agents,
&c., from the'use of a certain ferry over the Connecticut River,
and from receiving tolls, &c. Upon the hearing of the cause
on petition, answer, and the report of a committee appointed
to inquire into the facts, the injunction-was granted; and upon
being carried to the Supreme Court of Errors, the decree of the
court below was affirmed. Whereupon the case was brought

here by writ of error, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The report of the committee was as follows, omitting the
documents referred to therein, and which were appended to the
report.
"To the Honorable Superior Court, to be holden by adjournment at Hartford, in and for the County of Hartford, on

the second Tuesday of June, A. D. 1843:
"At an adjourned term of said court, holden at said Hart-

ford on the 1st day of May, 1843, upon a bill in equity then
and there pending before said court, in which bill the Hartford

512

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

Bridge Company is complainant, and the town of East Hartford and Samuel Brewer, of said town of East Hartford, are
respondents, the subscribers were appointed a committee to
find and report to said court, at an adjourned session thereof,
to be holden at Hartford aforesaid, on the second Tuesday of
June, 1843, the facts in said bill, and the answer thereto. And
having duly notified the parties of the time when, and the place
where, we would meet and hear them in relation to the facts
in said bill and answer contained, we, in conformity with said
notice, met the parties on the 6th day of June instant, at the
city court-room in the said town of Hartford, and, having been
first sworn according to law, fully heard them, from day to
day, by their counsel and with their testimony and witnesses,
and now find and report the facts following, viz. : That in the
month of December, 1681, the town of Hartford passed a vote
regulating the tolls to be taken at the ferry over Connecticut
River, between said town of Hartfbrd and what is now the
town of East Hartford; which appears by a copy of said vote
hereunto attached, and marked A. That on the 31st day of
March, 1682, said ferry was, by said town of Hartford, leased
to Thomas Cadwell for the terrm of seven years; a copy of
which.iease is attached hereunto, marked B. That on the 13th
day of December, 1687, said lease was renewed to the same
Thomas Cadwell for the further ferm of seven years; a copy
of which renewal is attached -hereunto, and marked C. That
on the 27th day of December, 1694, said town of Hartford
chose a committee to contract with some person to take the
ferry upon the best terms in their power; of which vote a copy
is attached hereunto, marked D. That on the 15th day of
January, 1695-6, said committee engaged the'said Thorfmas
"Cadwell to take the ferry aforesaid for seven years; of which
lease a copy is hereunto attached, marked E. That at the
session of the legislature in October, 1695, the tolls to be taken,
both at the Hartford and Windsor ferries, were regulated by
law, as will appear by an act in the edition of statutes, 1695
That the tolls or fares to be taken at the Hartford ferry were
regulated by legislative enactments, as appears in the edition
of statutes, 1808. That from the year 1681 until October,
1783, said ferry continued to be the franchise of said town of
Hartford, and during that period was used and enjoyed as such
by the town of Hartford alone; but that the legislature, at their
session in October, 1783, incorporated the town of East Hartford, granting to said town of East Hartford one half of said
ferry during the pleasure of the General Assembly; a copy of
which act is hereunto attached, marked F. That said town of
Hartford, on the 1st day of February, 1810, for the considera-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

513

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

tion of an annual rent of forty-five dollars, leased its moiety of
said ferry to Daniel Buck and Elisha Williams for the term of
five years, and that the payment of the rent reserved in said
lease was duly made by said lessees up to the year 1814, when,
in consequence of the reduced travel across said ferry, said
town of Hartford exacted of said Buck and Williams no rent
thereafter; but that certain individuals interested in the business and real estate on Ferry Street, in said town of Hartford,
and others, at their own expense, procured a ferry-boat, which
was run across said ferry, and from which they received no toll
whatever, and no compensation, other than an allowance made
by the ferryman for the use of the boat, the town of Hartford
making no opposition to this use of their right, which continued until the year 1818. That at the session of the General
Assembly in October, 1808, upon the petition of John Watson
and others, an act or resolve was passed incorporating the
said John Watson and others by the name of the Hartford
Bridge Company, and granting them liberty to erect a bridge
across Connecticut River, and to raise and build a causeway
through the meadows of East Hartford; which act or resolve is
made a part of this report, and is contained in the volume of
Private Acts of the State of Connecticut, at the 254th page.
That the petitioners, in pursuance of said' charter or act of incorporation, erected a bridge across said Connecticut River,
and built said causeway through the meadows of East Hartford, and in all things pursued the provisions contained in said
act of incorporation, except that said bridge was not so erected
that the travel was on a horizontal line in the chord of the arch,
nor were the piers as high as contemplated by the act of.incorporation; but said bridge and causeway, after the same were
completed, were accepted by John Cadwell, Jonathan Brace,
and Andrew Kingsbury, Esquires, a: standing committee by the
General Assembly appointed in said act of incorporation, for all
the purposes mentioned in said act, whose certificate, marked
G, is hereunto attached ; and that no objection to the mode or
manne- of the erection of said bridge in not having the travel
thereon on a horizontal line in the chord of the arch, nor to the
height of said piers, has been made known until after the petition which the petitioners preferred to the October session of
the General Assembly in the year 1817; but that the General
Assembly has once and again acted upon the subject of the
tolls of said bridge, and other interests appertaining thereto,
and granted the petitioners a new charter in the year 1818,
without claiming that the charter of 1808 was forfeited by a
noncompliance with any of the conditions thereof. That the
petitioners, on the 3d day of October, 1817, made application

514

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

to the General Assembly for a discontinuance of said ferry bE
tween the towns of Hartford and East Hartford; which petition is hereunto attached, marked H; upon which petition the
General Assembly passed a resolve or act; which resolve or act
is copied, and is hereunto attached, marked I. That under
said resolve the petitioners expended large sums in the repairs
of said bridge and causeway, under the inspection of the said
John Cadwell, Jonathan Brace, and Anthony Kingsbury, Esquires, who, by said act or resolve, were by said General Assembly constituted a committee or commissioners to superintend
the repairs on said bridge and causeway. That in erecting or
repairing said bridge, the petitioners, from time to time, received
directions from said committee or commissioners, which directions were followed and obeyed, and said causeway and bridge
were repaired c 'ready for the accommodation of the public on
the 1st day of December, 1818, as appears by the certificate of
said committee or commissioners hereunto attached, marked K;
but in the erection of said bridge by the petitioners, that part of
the wood-work or floor of said bridge which is opened or unfolded for the passage of vesseli, was constructed only 24 feet 7 inches wide, while the space underneath, between the abutment and
pier of said bridge on the west side, through which the hull of'
vessels must pass, is more than 30 feei wide. Thakno delay has
ever been occasioned to any vessel-in passing through said bridge
for want of space or-room through which to pass; nor does it
appear that any objection against the width of the passage
through said -bridge was ever raised by the public, or by those
who are in the habit of passing with their vessels through said
bridge, until after the year 1]36. And this committee are of
opinion, and do find, that, notwithstanding the opening in the
wood-work of said bridge, through which vessels are to pass,
does not exceed 24 feet 7 inches in width, yet there is ade.
quate room for the acopmmodation of all'who have occasion
to pass through said bridge with their vessels, and no inconvenience is suffered by the public in consequence of the narrowness of the passage through the wood-work of said bridge.
And although the rights of the petitioners in relation to said
bridge, and their compliance with or violation of the terms
and provisions of their several charters, have been frequently,
both incidentally and directly, the subjects of discussion and
debate before the General Assembly, and their decision upon
said points been had, yet has no real or apparent noncompliance on the part of the petitioners with the terms or provisions of the charter of 1818, in neglecting to make the opening in the wood-work of said bridge for the passage of vessels
wider than 24 feet 7 inches, ever been deemed or adjudged by

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

515

East Hartford v. Hartford. Bridge Co.

said General Assembly a violation of said charter, or a forfeiture
thereof, notwithstanding they have once and again been urged
to come to such a conclusion. That on the 21st day of April,
1837, S. W. Mills and others preferred their petition to the
General Assembly of said State, to be holden at Hartford on
the first Wednesday of May of the same year, complaining,
among other things, of the width of the draw of said bridge;
a copy of which petition is hereunto attached, marked L;
upon which petition, at the same session of the General Assembly, a yeport of the joint standing committee on roads and
bridges was made and accepted; a copy of which is hereunto
attached, marked M. That when the town of Manchester, by
an act of the General Assembly, passed at their session in May,
1823, was incorporated into a town, and set off from said town
of East Hartford no notice was taken in said act of the interest of said town of East Hartford in said ferry; which act incorporating said town of Manchester may be found on the"
1155th page of the private acts or laws of the State of Connecticut, and i? made a part of this report. That after the
passageof the act of the year 1818 by the General Assembly,
and the discontinuance of the ferry between the towns of
Hartford and East Hartford, the town of Hartford, at an adjourned town-meeting holden in said town on the first Monday of Pecember, 1835, passed several votes; copies of which
votes are hereunto attached, marked N; and that prior to the
year 1818, and the passage of the act of the General Assembly
granting to the petitioners permission to erect a new bridge;
the inhabitants of said town of Hartford, at an adjourned
town-meeting by them holden on the 2.9th day of December,
1817, passed a vote, a copy of which, marked 0, is hereunto
attached. That at the session of the General Assembly in
May, 186, an act was passed, repealing so much of the act
of 1818 as abolished or discontinued the ferry between the
towns of Hartford and East Hartford; which act is made a
part of this report, and is on the 566th page of the private acs
or laws of the State of Connecticut; which act or resolve was
passed upon the petition of Caleb Stockbridge and others; to
which petition the towns of Hartford and East Hartford were
made respondents. That said General Assembly, at their session in May, 1842, pas§ed a resolve, which is made a part of
this report, and is found on the 21st page of the resolutions
of the General Assembly, passed May session, 1842. That on
the 14th day of May, 1842, application was made by the
agent and attorney of the petitioners to several of the selectmen of said town of Hartford, for the purchase of the right of
said town of Hartford in and to said ferry. That several. of
.

516

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge C"

said selectmen, to whom said application was made, did not
suppose that said town of Hartford had an interest in more
than a moiety of said ferry, although they had been from time
to time conversant with all the facts in relation to said ferry,
and the various claims concerning the same, made before the
legislature when the -rights of the petitioners and of said
town of East Hartford were discussed, and the petitioners
claimed that neither the town of Hartford nor East Hartford
had any right to said ferry, but tliat said selectmen subscribed
an instrument or indenture, a copy of which, marked R, is
hereunto attached, subject, however, to the approval of the inhabitants of said town of Hartford, to be expressed at a townmeeting to be subsequently held; and that on the 18th day
of May, 1842, said town of Hartford, at a special town-meeting on that day held, by virtue of warning which is hereunto
attached, marked S, approved of said indenture or instrument
thus executed previously by said selectmen of said town of
Hartford; and we find that the agent and attorney of the pe.
titioners, when negotiating with said selectmen in relation to
the purchase by the petitioners of the right of said town of
Hartford in and to said ferry, distinctly stated to said selectmen that the object of the petitioners, in purchasing the right
of the said town of Hartford in and to said ferry, was to enable the petitioners to commence some process before a court
of law or equity, by which the questions at issue between the
petitioners and the town of East Hartford might be finally
decided. That the whole negotiation between the agent and
attorney of the petitioners, and said selectmen 'and town of
Hartford, was fairly and honestly conducted. That the petitioners paid to said town of Hartford the first annual payment
due on said instrument, in the month of September, 1842.
That from time immemorial, until the year 1818, no boats,
other than flat-bottomed scow-boats, moved by oars, had been
used on said ferry, b it that, from the year 1836 until this time,
said town of East Hartford, when using said ferry, has run a
horse-boat at said ferry. That with the exception of the'time_
when the bridge of the petitioners has been impassable, and
said town of Hartford has by law been compelled to keep
up said ferry, the said town of Hartford has not made any use
of said ferry as a franchise, or derived any benefit or emolument therefrom, since the year 1814. That from the-time
when the bridge of the petitioners was completed, in the year
1818, until after the passage of the resolve. of the General Assembly in May, 1836, said ferry between the towns of Hartford and East Hartford was not used as a public ferry, and no
boats during said time were kept thereat by said towns of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

517

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

Hartford and East Hartford, or either of them, to transport
and convey passengers, freight, &c. That from the time when
said ferry between the towns of Hartford and East Hartford
was restored by the General Assembly, in 1836, until it was discontinued, in 1841, the town of East Hartford 'has received for
ferriages and tolls collected at said ferry, which during said
time has been carried on solely by said town of East Hartford,
a large sum of money, viz. more than ten thousand dollais.
That, after the year 1814, the ferry between said towns of
Hartford and East Hartford was not kept up by both or
either of said towns, but that individuals, upon their own
responsibility and at their own cost and charges, managed
said ferry, and collected toll thereon, until the bridge first
erected by the petitioners was partially or wholly destroyed,
in the year 1818, when by law said towns of Hartford
and East Hartford were compelled to keep boats at said
ferry for the accommodation of the public travel, which the
said town of Hartford relinquished and abandoned as soon as
the petitioners rebuilt or repaired their said bridge, the erection of which relieved the said towns of Hartford and East
Hartford from the necessity and expense of maintaining boats.
suitable for crossing the meadows in time of flood. That since
the completion of the first bridge of the petitioners, in 1811, the
petitioners have ever been accustomed to take toll according to>
law of all who have made use of their said bridge, nor has any
person disputed or resisted their right upon the pretence that
either the first or the second bridge was not constructed according to the provisions of their several charters or grants. That
the petitioners, since the purchase by them of the right of the
town of Hartford in and to said ferry, have not run any boat
across said ferry, nor made any provision for the accommodation of the public travel at said ferry, nor commenced, until the
date of this petition, any suit at law or bill in equity against
the resp9ndents, or either of them. The committee -further
find, that the petitioners have invested in said bridge and
causeway a large sum of money; that the bridge and causeway erected by them under the grant or charter of 1808, and
which was accepted and approved by- the commissioners or
standing committee appointed by the General Assembly, cost
more than ninety-six thousand dollars; that to reconstruct said
bridge under the grant or charter of 1818, and to rebuild said
causeway, and make therein and in said bridge such alterations
and improvements as were directed by the act of the legislature, the petitioners expended about thirty thousand dollars;
and that, for various other repairs and expenditures on said
bridge and causeway, the petitioners have disbursed a further
VOL. X.

44

518

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

sum of forty-seven thousand dollars and upwards; so that the
standing committee or commissioners on said bridge, when
settling the accounts of said Hartford Bridge Company, on
the 12th day of April, 1842, found and reported to the General
Assembly, that on said 12th day of April, 1842, there was due
to the petitioners, for arrears of interest on the capital by them
invested, at the rate of twelve per cent. per annum, the sum of
$227,270.89; that the annual receipts for toll, so far as the
same can be ascertained from the treasury-office, are contained
in a schedule hereunto attached, marked T. The committee
find that Samuel Brewer, one of the respondents, at the time
of commencing this petition, was one of the selectmen of said
town of East Hartford, and, as agent of said town of East
Hartford, had charge of said ferry and of the ferry-boat. And
we further find, that although some of the inhabitants of East
Ha'tford, Glastenbury, and, other towns, are personally accommodated by a continuance of the ferry, especially when their
business in the town of Hartford calls them into State Street,
or parts of the town of Hartford lying south of State Street,
inasmuch as the distance which they are under the necessity
of travelling is considerably diminished, and the toll or fare
which they are compelled to pay is less at the ferry than at the
bridge, still it is only when the river is low in the summer season, and the weather not windy and boisterous, that the ferry
is preferable to the bridge, even to these individuals. But the
committee are of opinion, and do find, that said ferry is not of
public convenience and necessity, nor do the interests of the
The committee further
communty require its continuance.
find, that the bridge of the Hartford Bridge Company, over
Connecticut :Uiver, is not only highly advantageous to the prosperity and increasing growth of both the towns of Hartford and
East Hartford, but is of great public convenience to all who
have occasion to cross Connecticut River at this place. That
the value of real estate, both in the towns of Hartford and
East Hartford, has been greatly enhanced since the erection of
said bridge, and in consequence of the facilities of intercourse
with the city of Hartford and places contiguous, thereby furnished; and that said bridge is of great public convenience and
necessity, and is abundantly adequate to accommodate all who
may w ish to come to or depart from Hartford across Connecticut River, between the towns of Hartford and East Hartford;
neither can the inhabitants of Hartford or East Hartford, nor
the commnunity at large, dispense with said bridge. The committee is of opinion, that the real estate in the towns of Hartford and East Hartford, since the erection of said bridge, and
by reason of the facilities thereby furnished to travellers and

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

519

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

others, has been increased in value to an amount greater than
all that has been expended by the petitioners in the erection
and support of said bridge and causeway since the year 1808,
and that, ,were said ferry of public convenience and necessity, it
could not be made at all seasons of the year, both by night
and by day, so safe and so commodious as the bridge of the
petitioners now is and has ever been. That at the time of the
passage of the act of 1818, the tolls which the petitioners were
before that time authorized to receive were much reduced.
That the legislature have from time to time taken into consideration said bridge and ferry, and the interests and rights of
the public in relation thereto will appear by several resolves
and acts of said legislature, all of which -are part of this report,
two of which acts are found on the 260th and two on the 261st
page of the private laws of the State of Connecticut, and one
on the 55th page of the resolves passed by the General Assembly in the year 1839, and two of said resolves are to be
found on the 564th and 565th pages of the private acts of the
State of Connecticut. That- the resolve or act passed by the.
General Assembly, at their session in May, 1842, restoring to
the towns of Hartford hnd East Hartford the ferry between said
towns, was founddd upon a report of the joint select committee
of the legislature, a copy of which report, marked X, is hereunto attached; to the admission of which report as evidence
on the part of the respondents the petitioners objected, and the
same was admitted, subject to such objection. That, at a
session of the General Assembly in May, 1841, a resolve was
passed discontinuing or suppressing said ferry, which act or
resolve is hereunto attached, marked Y; which act or resolve
was passed upon the report of a committee of said Assembly, i
copy of which report is hereunto attached, mrked Z; to the
admission of which report on the part of the petitioners an
objection was made by the-respondents, and the same was admitted, subject to said objection. That, at the time When said
instrument or indenture between the town of Hartford and the
petitioners was executed, a petition in favor of the town of East
Hartford was pending before the legislature, to which petition
the said town of Hartford and the petitioners in this bill were
respondents.
"All which is respectfully submitted by
EB. LEARNED,

Committee.

10, 1843."
" Hartford, Tune
The following summary of the legislation of Connecticut on
the subject-matter of- this controversy will be sufficient to indicate the constitutional question growing out of it.

50

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

The act of 1783 divided the ancient town of Hartford
(which lay on both sides of the river) into the towns of Hartford and East Hartford, and at the same time !he property of
the ancient town was also divided; "and the privilege of keeping one half of the ferry," &c., was declared to "belong to
East Hartford during the pleasure of this Assembly."
The act of 1806 established the boundaries of the two
ferries between the towns of Hartford and East Hartford, and
provided "that the occupiers of such ferry, south of said
boundaries, shall have the exclusive privilege of taking passengers south of said boundaries, and the occupiers of said
ferry north of such boundary shall have the exclusive privilege of taking passengers north of said boundaries."
The act of 1808, which incorporated the Hartford Bridge
Company, contained the following proviso, viz.: " Provided,
that nothing in this grant shall now, or at any future time, in
any way lessen, impair, injure, or obstruct the right to keep up
and maintain the ferries established'by law between the towns
of Hartford and East Hartford," &c.
The act of 1818 provided that, whenever the bridge company should have repaired their bridge, &c., "the ferries by law
established between the towns of Hartford and East Hartford
shall be discontinued, and said towns shall thereafter never
be permitted to transport passengers across said river, unless
on the happening of the contingency hereinafter mentioned."
The contingency was the non-repair of the bridge, in which
case the towns of Hartford and East Hartford were to resun'
their rights "to occupy and improve said ferries9'The act of 1836 repealed the act of 1818 so far as it interdicted the ferry.
The act of 1841 repealed that of 1836, and the act of
1842 repealed that of 1841, and in the second section provided,
that the right of the town of East Hartford to keep and use
the ferry, "as possessed by said town of East Hartford prior to
said act of 1841, is hereby restored and confirmed," &c.
The cause was argued by Mr. Chapman and Mr. Toucey, for
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr.-arsons and Milr. Baldwin, for
the defendant in error.
Mr. Chapman, for the plaintiff in error.
1. The right to the ferry was an absolute title by legislative
grant. It is expressly recognized as such in the act of incorporation, and has been held as such ever since 1680. It is
averred 'in the complainant's bill, admitted in the answer, and
was found by the committee appointed to inquire into the
facts. It must therefore stand as a fact in the case which
admits of no question.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

521

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

2. The act of 1818 was passed for the purpose of suspending the ferry. It is entirely unconstitutional. It was the
suspension of the exercise or enjoyment of a franchise in one
corporation for the benefit of another.
3. A moiety of the ferry title, after 1783, has always been
in the plaintiff in error, and it has therefore the right to
interpose this constitutional objection. The ancient ferry title
was in the corporators of the ancient town of Hartford; when
the town was divided, their corporate property was divided.
The legislature had the mere power of partition. And the
act of 1818, even if it was the exercise of a reserved power
of partition, could not give the title to the ferry to the bridge
company. But the act of 1818 does not purport any such
intention; nor did it transfer any title to the corporators of
Hartford. It expressly provides for the continuance of the
title in the corporators of East Hartford. The right of ferry
was admitted in the court below, and that it could not be
taken away without compensatioih. The principle, then, is
admitted, though its application is denied.
The act of 1836 reestablishes the ferry right in both towns.
This act repeals that of 1818, and the town of Hartford itself,
by its vote, aided in procuring this very act. Even, then, if by
any legerdemain the title had been entirely in the town of
Hartford, here by their own concurrence an act is passed which
gives a moiety to East Hartford.
But the consent of Hartford was not necessary to the repeal
of the act of 1818. The .act of 1836 was constitutional. It
sustained the original grant, and stood upon the same footing
as the original grant, and could no more be repealed than the
original grant.
The act of 1842 establishes the title of East Hartford.
The lease of 1842 makes no difference, because it only conveyed that which belonged to East Hartford, which was a
moiety. The act of 1806 was an absolute and unqualified
grant. Nothing could be stronger or more direct.
The bridge company were incorporated as a bridge company, and could not exercise the ferry franchise. But it is said
that there was non-user of this franchise for eighteen years, and
that this amounted to an abandonment. If, however, the ferry
title was abandoned, it was abandoned by both towns. If it
was forfeited, it was forfeited to the State. But there was an
express proh'bition by the State to use this franchise. This
would justify the non-user.
113. Parsons,for defendait in error, maintained,1. That the ferry franchise, being acquired by user, is only
44*

f22

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

commensurate with the use which has always been enjoyed,
subject to the control, and dependent upon the will, of the
General Assembly.
That from 1695 the General Assembly had prescribed and
regulated the tolls to be taken at the ferry, and, in common
with the other ferries in the State, had prescribed the size and
strength of boats, how they should be manned, the hours of
attendance, and every thing connected with the public accommodatioh.
2. That the ferry had been voluntarily relinquished by the
plaintiff from the time the first bridge was opened for travel,
in 1811, and by the town of Hartford from 1814, and when so
relinquished was purchased by the bridge company by the
acceptance of their amended charter in 1818, and being once
relinquished, the right was gone for ever. Corning v. Gould,
16 Wend. 531, and cases there cited.
3. That if not voluntarily relinquished, the ferry was abandoned by non-user, previous to 1836, when it was revived by
the General Assembly. A non-user merely for fifteen years, in
analogy to the statute limiting the right of entry on lands in
Connecticut, creates a perfect presumption of abandonment.
Taylor v. Hampton, 4 McCord, 96; Lakwrence v. Obee, 3
Campb. 514; and the above case in 16 Wendell.
4. It is an inherent right of every State government, subject
only to the limitations of its own constitution, to appropriate
the private property of its citizens for public use at its discretion; and whether it be land, a franchise, or an easement, is
wholly immaterial. A contract or grant is subject to the right
of eminent domain, and in resuming a grant the Skate only
claims of the grantee the fulfilment of the implied condition
on which it was made; and whether compensation is or is not
made, it is not within the tenth section of the first article of the
Constitution. West River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 Howard, 507;
Mills v. St. Clair County, 8 Howard, 569; Enfield Bridge Co.
v. Hartford and New Haven Railroad Co., 17 Conn. 60.
5. But the charter of 1818 was previous to the adoption of
the constitution of Connecticut, and the powers of the State
in the premises, under.the charter of Charles the Second, were
unlimited. Gov., &c., of Cast Plate Manufacturing Co. v.
Meredith, 4 T. R. 794.
The right of eminent domain belongs to all countries and all
States, and is either limited or unrestricted, according to the
fundamental rules by which the people have chosen to bind
themselves by their State constitution.
6. The town of East Hartford had no right in the ferry except what it derived from its act of incorporation, which might

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

5W

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

be determined at the will of the Assembly, and, being determined in 1818, is not a subject-matter of complaint by the
plaintiff in error.
On the division of towns, all the corporate property belongs
to the old town, unless expressly granted to the new one.
Hartford Bridge Co. v. East Hartford, 16 Conn. 172, and cases
cited.
That the legislature regarded the rights of the plaintiff in
error as temporary, is clear from the facts, 1st. That the ferry is never spoken of as the East Hartford
ferry, but in the regulation of tolls, and in all acts from 1783 to
1818, it is called the Hartford ferry.
2d. In an act passed in 1805, it is enacted that the town of
East Hartford, so long as it shall receive any profit from the
Hartfordferries, shall keep boats to transport passengers across
East Hartford meadows, &c.
That both towns regarded the right of the ferry as depending upon the wvill of the General Assembly is evident ; 1st. Because no one ever attempted to exercise a ferry right
between the towns after 1818, except by first obtaining liberty
of the General Assembly to exercise such right, which was first
granted in 1818.
2d. Neither of said towns ever commenced any process before a judicial tribunal to test its rights during the eighteen
years the ferry was suppressed.
3d. The town of Manchester was incorporated in 1823, being taken from said town of East Hartford, but no notice was
taken in the act of incorporation of any interest in the ferry.
This would not have escaped the attention of the new town,
had they supposed that the legislature had exceeded its powers
in suppressing the ferry.
M1r. Baldwi2, on the same side.
What were the rights of the town of Hartford, as against
the State?
The town of Hartford was a local and public corporation,
established for public purposes pertaining to the internal police
and government of the State. Its functions are entirely of a
public and municipal character, and are such as from time to
time the legislture deem it proper to impose. Its property'
is holden, not for the private interest of the members of the
community, but for the public purposes for which the corporation itself is established.
Towns in Connecticut are charged with the duty of making
and maintaining all necessary highways and bridges within
their limits, which it is not the special duty of some other cor-

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

poration or person to support; with the maintenance of the
poor, and with certain specified duties of' local legislation.
They are also represented in General Assembly, -a corporate
representation.
They'act in the performance of all their public duties as the
agents of the government by whom these duties are imposed,
upon such terms as the sovereign power deems just and reasonable; as, for instance, in maintaining the town and State poor.
They are necessarily, *as parts of the machinery of government, subject from time to time to the regulation of the sovereign power, which is charged with the promotion of the general weal.
Ferries over navigable waters can only be established by
authority of the sovereign power. Being established, when
necessary, for the general convenience, the charge of maintaining them may be imposed upon the local communities, in
the same manner as the support o- the highways and bridges,
which are deemed properly to devolve on towns whose inhabitants have most occasion for their use, and whose general
interests are promoted by the facilities they afford, equal to the
burden of their-support.
Or, if deemed reasonable by the State, these charges may be
shared by all who participate in the benefits, by the authorized
imposition of reasonable tolls. If this latter mode be preferred,
the government has the option either to impose the duty with
the privilege of such regulated rates of toll as from time to
time justice may seem to require; or to contract with individuals or private corporations to perform the duty for such stipulated mode of compensation as shall be agreed upon by the
parties. Or it may divide the burden between such public and
private corporations, as is frequently done when towns are required to purchase the right of way, and a private corporation
is established to' 6onstruct a road for the stipulated tolls.
The ferry across Connecticut River appears, from the finding of the committee, to have been maintained by the town
of Hartford from its commencement, subject to the regulation
of its tolls at the pleasure of the General Assembly.
It was obviously in its origin regarded as a public establishment, the charge of which was imposed as a duty on the town
within whose limits it was included, but-the expenses of which
were to be borne by a tax levied in the shape of tolls by those
who had occasion for its use, - like a public office for the fees
not as a privilege for the pecuniary advantage of the town.
It was not the case of a risk voluntarily assumed by the investment of capital in a bridge or road, in consideration of expected reimbursement from specified and permanent rates of
toll.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

525

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

As the town extended across the river, it was competent for
the legislature to impose the duty of maintaining the ferry without other remuneration than the local benefit, ab in the case
of roads and bridges; or from time to time to regulate the tolls
so as barely to defray the expense. It rested in the discretion
and judgment of the legislature; just as it rests in their judgrment, in the progress of population, intercourse, and wealth, to
determine whether the public necessity requires a bridge or a
ferry, and which shall be suppressed or abandoned, if both cannot exist together.
A ferry may not only be suppressed for the purpose of securing a mode of passage more convenient to the public; but its
suppression may be ordered from a regard solely to its insecurity as compared to a bridge.
At the time of the suppression of the ferry, in 1818, it was,
and had been for years, practically abandoned by the town, and
was conducted at their own charge, by individhals who paid no
rent. The bridge having been carried away, there was a public
necessity that it should be rebuilt, and none for the continuance
of the ferry, which yet was an obstacle to the rebuilding of
the bridge.
What rights, then, had the town of Hartford to its continuance, or to demand compensation for its suppression-?
It was established because required by public convenience.
It was now a nuisance, depriving the public 6f the greater
benefit of a bridge.
Is the original grant to the town of Hartford to be presumed
from the user, by which alone it is proved, to have been made
for any longer period than the public corvenience might require?
Is it to be presumed that a public corporation, itself created
for the promotion of the public interest, subject to be divided
or dissolved- at the pleasure of the General Assembly, was
vested with a power of perpetuating a ferry dter it had become prejudicial to the public, and against the will of the
supreme power of the State?
Towns are not established by contract with the inhabitants.
They are public institutions, -political organizations performing functions ancillary to, and in lieu of, the government of the
State. Hence, being created without regard to private emolument, whatever functions they are permitted to exercise are
necessarily subject to the control of the sovereign power. 4
Wheaton, 518 ; 4 Pet. Cond. 540; 9 Cranch, 43; 4 Pet. Cond.
562; 6 How. 548.
To apply these principles to"the facts in this case.
The public necessity required a bridge. The bridge corporation had expended $ 96,000, and their bridge was carried

526

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

away. It could not in the opinion of the legislature be rebuilt
if the ferry was continued. The inhabitants of the town of
Hartford would derive a benefit from the erection of the bridge
in the enhanced value of their land, to an amount exceeding
its cost.
It was the duty of the sovereign power to cause a bridge tO
be erected, because the public convenience and necessity required it. And it was desirable that the tolls allowed by the
old charter should be reduced.
The State might cause it to be erected at its own expense, by
a general tax; or make it the duty of the county, or the town
of Hartford, or the two towns, to build it at their own expende,
wholly or in part (in the case of New York canals, people taxed
twenty-five miles each side); or charter a private corporation to
build it wholly at its own charge for the specified tolls; or partly
at the charge of the towns most benefited, so that the tolls on
the people of the State generally might be diminished. That
would seem to be equitable.
This is almost always done in the laying out of turnpike
roads. It was done in the case in 6 Howard; the to~vn of
Brattleboro being required to pay for the West River Bridge
$4,000 in order to make it a free bridge.
Upon what principle is this required ? The property of the
inhabitants of the town is taken for public use to the amount
of $ 4,000. Why? Because the improvement is one from
which the inhabitants of the local community derive a special
benefit. It takes so much of their lroperty for public use, without other compensation than the benefits it supposes they will
derive from the improvement. The legislature judges in regard
to the sufficiency of the compensation, as it always does when
it taxes or authorizes a local community to tax its inhabitants
for a local improvement.
The sovereign power may levy its tax on the inhabitants of
the town, or it may require the town to pay it from its treasury,
leaving them to replenish their treasury by taxation as they
may think fit.
If, instead of requiring the payment of money from the
town treasury, the legislature deems it better to take other
property of the town, the continued use of which would be
incompatible with the enjoyment by the inhabitants of the
benefit of the improverment, what is the objection ? The principle is the same: the mode of payment only ditfbrs.
Suppose the legislature had said, If the bridge company
will rebuild the bridge in the manner we prescribe, and will
consent to a reduction of the tolls, the towns of Hartford'and
East Hartford shall pay towards the cost $ 10,000; will any

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

5'27

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

body pretend that that would be any violation of the Constitution of the United States?
Is it not a matter about which
the State legislature are the proper and exclusive judges?
Surely, if they could require a payment in money, they can,
if important for the accomplishment of the object, require the
abandonment of a public franchise which interferes with the
bridge.
It would seem to be very clear, that it could never have
been the intention of the framers of the Constitution, to interpose the power of this government between the sovereign power
of a State and one of its public corporations. All questions
relating to the local corporations of a State are questions
which are exclusively addressed to the power of the State
which establishes, them, and which caii alone judge intelligently, in view of all its domestic policy and interests, of the
propriety of the regulations it may adopt.
Even as to the property of individuals, the legislature of
Connecticut, prior to the adoption of the constitution of September, 1818, - much more as to that of its public corporations, -was
governed only by its own sense of justice. The
people of the State had confided the sovereign power without
limit to the legislature. (See Charter.)
But I apprehend, that, when there is a constitutional provision that private property shall not be taken for public use
without compensation, it is to the State tribunals, and to them
alone, that an individual, whose property has been taken in the
exercise of the power of eminent domain, must look for redress.
The constitution of the State, and not that of the United
States, is violated.
This, I take it, has been explicitly decided by this court, in
6 Howard, 507, and in 8 Howard, 584. In the last case, the
complainants exhibited a grant to land, vesting the fee-simple
title. The State authorized three hundred feet of their land
to be taken, when only one hundred were necessary.
The
bill charges it as oppressively taken.
The demurrer admits it. The Supreme Court say it was illegal, and void.
if so.
But that does not give this court jurisdiction. "It is not an
invasion and illegal seizure of private property, on pretence of
exercising the right of eminent domain, that gives this court
jurisdiction. Such a law, &c., is not a violation of a contract
in the sense of the Constitution." It rests with the State
legislature and State courts to protect their citizens from
injustice of this description. "The framers of the Constitution
never intended that the legislative and judicial powers of the
general government should extend to municipal regulations

528

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

necessary to the well-being and existence of the States." 8
Howard, 584.
The.right of eminent domain is the right of civil government over all the territory and persons within the limits of a
State, notwithstanding its grant of the property to individuals.
It is a right paramount to, and unaffected by, the grant. It
forms no part of the contract. It is a right inherent in the
sovereignty of the State, to be exercised in cases of necessity.
Until the necessity arises, the grantee's right of property is absolute. It is a power of government, -not an interest in the
property, - a latent power called into activity by reason of the
necessity that exists for its exercise, and not of aniy preexisting
contract. It exists to the same extent over property derived
from another, as from the State itself. Thus, for example,
when a State is admitted to be formed out of a territory, the
property in the land is in the United States and its grantees,
.the eminent domain is in the State; or, in other words, the
right of civil government. The right is as absolute as the necessity which calls for its exercise. The duty to make compensation is to be regulated by the sense of justice of the sovereign power, or by the constitution of the State.
It is no part of the gontract or grant of the title, that the
government will make compensation, if a public necessity
should require the faking of the land for public use. It is to
be presumed it will do so in all cases proper for compensation,
where there is no constitutional requirement; and where there
is, the party wronged has recourse to the judicial tribunals of
the State for redress for a violation of the constitution of the
State, not of the United States.
There is no necessity to presume a contract to entitle the
party to redress. But it is necessary that there should be a
contract violated to give this court jurisdiction.
If it has been shown that the town of Hartford would have
no right to complain of the act of 1818 as unconstitutional, a
fortiori East Hartford has none.
But suppose the town of Hartford might complain, no rights
of East Hartford were violated. That corporation had no
rights, except such as were granted during the pleasure of the
General Assembly.
Why were they so granted? For some purpose,-what?
It could be only for one of two purposes;-lst To enable
the General Assembly to do justice to the town of Hartford by
restoring it after a reasonable time; or 2a. To manifest its
own power to regulate and control it. East Hartford, taking
the grant with a reservation, cannot repudiate the limitation
of her right, and claim the grant as absolute.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

529

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

But it is said by the plaintiff in error, that the people of East
Hartford always had an undivided interest as corporators,
which the legislature could only assert. Not so. The inhabitants had no private interests in this ferry. - The town as a corporation held it, and the nse was wholly public.
The legislature, on dividing the two towns in 1783, if they
had deemed it best, might have left the ferry wivholly to the
management of the old town, as better qualified to serve the
public. If they had made no direction, it would have remained in Hartford.
East Hartford had, then, just what interest the legisiature
thought proper to grant it.
What was the nature and extent of that grant? Who shall
interpret it? Who but the courts of the State? They have
interpreted it to be simply a grant determinable at the pleasure
of the General Assembly. How can this court say that a just
apportionment of the property and burdens of the old town required any thing more?
If not, no matter whether the charter of 1818 was a suspension or an abrogation of the right. So long as the use of it
is inhibited, it becomes an illegal disturbance of our right.
The act of the legislature for the suppression of the ferry, in
the day and time of it, was acquiesced in by both towns, for a
period long enough to warrant a presumption of abandonment.
The Supreme Court say that it was so acquiesced in and
abandoned. It would not be necessary, therefore, for the court
in Connecticut to have decided any thing else. They might
have admitted the invalidity of the act of 1818 as to both
towns, and yet held the decision of the court below right, on
the ground of waiver and abandonment.
31r. Toucey, in reply.
1. The first question is, whether there is a contract under
which the plaintiff may claim.
2. Whether that contract has been impaired iii its obligation
by legislative act, as enforced by the judgment or decree.
The ancient ferry title was an absolute title by legislative
grant, alleged in the bill, admitted in the answer, found by the
committee, upheld by all the legislation of the Colony and the
State (except the suspension) by the acts of 1680, 1783, 1806,
1808, 1818, 1836, 1842, admitted by the bridge company's lease
from Hartford, and admitted by the Supreme Cowt of Connecticut as to Hartford. 17 Conn. 91; Baldwin v. Norton,
2 Conn. 161 ; Gaylord v. Couch, 5 Day, 223.
It has been urged and relied on by the other side, being what
the committee have found, though not put in issue, I-that the
VOL. X.

45

580

SUPREME

COURT.

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

tolls or fares to be taken at the Hartford ferry were regulated
by legislative enactments, as appears in the Ed. of Stat. 1808."
Now the only instance shown in the Statutes of 1808 is where
the fares are enlarged. And has it ever been doubted that the
legislature may enlarge the liberties of a franchise? How, then,
could acts of the legislature enlarging the ferry rights be construed as exercises of the restraiwing power of the legislature
contended for in this case ?
The acts of May and October, 1806, permanently and finally
fixed the boundaries between Hartford and East Hartford.
Before that time the boundaries had been settled only during
the pleasure of the Assembly, by giving for the present an undivided moiety to each. But the acts of 1808 purport to fix
and establish the boundaries as they shall remain. The only
power of the legislature was to makea partition of the property, upon a division of the town. They divide it for the time
being by giving a moiety to each. But the acts of 1808 fixed
the boundaries for ever. The very act incorporating the bridge
company recognized the rights of the ferry-owners, by enacting that nothing in that grant should lessen, impair, &c., the
ferries established by law. And even the act of 1818, of which
we complain, recognizes the same title, so that, if the bridge
were destroyed, the ferry rights would be reserved. Then
comes the act of 1836, which sets the ferries up again, and the
act of 1842 further establishes and confirms the ferry rights.
Next as to the interest of the plaintiff in error. The corporators of East Hartford were part owners from 1630 to the
present time, not excepting the suspension. They were joint tenants to 1783,- 103 years; owners of an undivided moiety from
1783 to 1806; and owners of one ferry in severally from 1806
to 1841. The legislature had the power of division, and the
power of division only. If that was exercised, it was 6xhausted. If it was divided, it was divided for ever. That which was
given to each, was given to it for ever. No power of partition
remained after the act of 1806. The act of 1818 does not purport to divide the ferry right. There was no intent to terminate the title of East Hartford, or transfer it to Hartford, in that
act. Its transfer was effectually interdicted. Then there is an
express provision for continuance of title in East Hartford.
The act itself is not a termination of title, but a partial, conditional suspension only.
But we are told that the act of 1836 has been decided by the
State court to be unconstitutional, and that therefore it cannot
be brought here for revision. Well, it is true that, where the
State court has decided one of the State laws to be unconstitutional, that decision cannot be brought here for reversal. But

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

531

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

in a collateral way this court may determine the same law to
be constitutional. For if this court should be of opinion that
the act of 1818 was unconstitutional, they could hardly be
bound by the decision of the State court upon the unconstitutionality of the act of 1836, founded entirely upon its interference with the right growing out of the act of 1818. Williamson v. Berry, 8 Howard, 495.
The act of 1836 was constitutional, for the reason that the
act of 1818, with which it conflicts, was unconstitutional; and
this confirmation is as irrepealable as the original grant. The
act of 1841 purports to repeal that of 1836 and reEstablish
that of 1818. Certainly -nonew right could be acquired under
this act.
Was the suspension of the ferry right constitutional? The
act of 1818 was not a grant of the old ferries to the bridge
company. It was nbt a grant of an exclusive franchise within
certain limits, including the old ferries. The legislature might
cover the river with bridges or ferries without infringing the
act of 1818. It was not the grant of a line of travel. Warren
and Charles River Bridge case, 11 Pet. 420. It was not an express grant of the ferry tolls, or any part of them. It was a mere
naked suspension of two existing franchises. It was direct
legislative action on the contract. It was the interpolation
of a new and most important exception into the contract. As
interpreted and enforced, it is a transfer of the ferry tolls by implication from the ferry owners to the bridge owners. And this
by inference from the assumed legal existence of the suspension.
Suppose two competing railroads. Can one be suspended?
It is not done in the exercise of the right of eminent domain.
The ferry franchises are not taken. The ferry-wfays and ferryboats are not taken, but remain idle and untouched. No bridge
is granted within the exclusive limits of the ferry franchises.
Nothing is taken for public use. The bridge franchise and
the ferry franchises had existed side by side for ten years. The
bridge coinpany were bound to maintain their bridge under a
pledge not to interfere with the ferry.
The avowed object was, not to open a new way by land or
by water, but to increase the dividend of the bridge company
by the suspension of its rival.
It was a mere act of party legislation, which was in effect an
act of plhnder, repented of and afterwards repealed as inhibited.
by the Constitution of the United States.
There was no intention to exercise the right of eminent do-main. Not only were neither the franchises nor the visible
property taken, nor any thing else for public use, but no com-.
pensation was provided. Provision for compensation makes

532

SUPREME

COURT.

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

the difference between public plunder and the exercise of the
right of eminent domain. One is rapine, the other is justice.
In every case of i. franchise (which is necessarily founded in
contract) the one is inhibited, the other excepted in the Constitution. No government in the civilized world uan make the
exercise of this right equivalent to public plunder, without
shaking it, to its foundations. This was the doctrine of this
court in the Warren Bridge case, 11 Peters, 420, and in the West
River Bridge case, 6 Howa,-d, 507. In the latter case, the road,
abutments, bridge, and franchise were taken for public use withit
compensation. But here the legislature suspends the ferries
for the benefit of the bridge company. If I enter into a contract with a man, can the legislature take away that contract?
If it be an executed contract, can the sovereign take away the
fruits of it? Here, however, the legislature does not pretend to
take away the grant, but to alter its provisions, and to alter them
not for its own benefit but for that of another.
Mr. Justice WO ODB URY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, under the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act, brought to reverse a judgment rendered by the
Supreme Court of the State of Connecticut.
It is claimed by the plaintiff, that the clause in the Constitution of the United States agtinst impairing the obligation of
contracts was set up there Li defence to certain proceedings
which had been instituted against that corporation by virtue
of rights derived from legislative acts of that State, which acts
the plaintiff insisted had impaired the obligation of a contract
existing in behalf -of East Hartford.
It being manifest from the record that such a defence was
set up, and that the court overruled the objection, so that jurisdiction exists here to revise the case, we proceed to examine
whether, on -the facts of the case, any such contract appears'to
have existed, and to have been violated by the State legislation,
which was drawn in question.
It will be seen that the point before us is one of naked constitutional law, depending on no equities between the parties,
but od the broad principle in our jurisprudence, whether power
existed in the legislature of Connecticut to pass the acts in
1818 and 1841, which are complained of in this writ of error.
The supposed contract claimed to have been impaired related to certain rights in a ferry, whieti were alleged to have
been granted by the State, across the Connecticut River. This
grant is believed to have been made to Hartford as early as the
year 1680, and half of it transferred to East Hartford in 1783.
But no copy of the first grant being produced, nor any original

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

533

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.
referred to or found, it is difficult to fix the terms or character
of it, except from the nature of the subject and the subsequent
conduct of the parties, including the various acts of the legislature afterwards passed regula ing this matter.
From these it is manifest, that two leading considerations
arise in deciding, in the first place, whether by this grant a contract like that contemplated in the Constitution can be deemed
to exist. They are, first, the*nature of the subject-matter of
the grant, and next, the character of the parties to it,
As to the former, it is certain that Connecticut passed laws
regulating ferries in 1695; and Massachusetts began to grant
ferries as early as 1644 (Col. Charter, p. 110*, and to, exercise
jurisdiction over some even in 1630 (Charles River Bridge v.
Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 430). In 1691 s'ie provided that
no one should keep a ferry without license frim the Quarter
Sessions, and under bonds to comply with the liuties and regulations imposed (p. 280).
In the rest of New England, it is probable that a similar
course was pursued by the legislatures, making, as a general
rule, the tolls and exercise of the franchise entirely dependent
on their discretion. But in some instances the owners of the
lands on the banks of small rivers opened fer ies upon them,
and claimed private interests therein. And in still other cases
of public grants to private corporations or ind: viduals, a similar interest has been claimed.
It is highly probable, too, that in some instances public corporations, like the plaintd in this case, may have set up a like
interest, claiming that the subject-matter granted was one
proper for a contract, or incident to some other rights like private interests owned on the bank of a river.
Supposing, then, that a ferry may in some cases be private
property, and be held by individuals or corporations under
grants in the nature of contracts, it is still insisted here, that
the ferry across a large navigable river, and whose use and control were entirely within the regulation of the colonial legisla-

ture, and came, from it, would be a niere public privilege or
public license, and a -grant of it not within the protection
of the Constitution of the United States as a matter of contract.

But it is not found necessary for us to decide finally on this
first and more doubtful question, as our opinion is clearly in
favor of the defendant in error on the other questioh; viz. that
the parties to this grant did not by their charter stand in the
attitude towards each other of making a contract by it, such
as is contemplated in the Constitution, and as could not be
modified by subsequent legislation. The legislature was act45 *

534

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

ing here on the one part, and public municipal and political
corporations on the other. They were acting, too, in relation
to a public object, being virtually a highway across the river,
over another highway up and down the river. From this
standing and relation of these parties, and from the subjectmatter of their action, we think that the doings of the legislature as to this ferry must be considered rather as public laws
than as contracts. They related to public interests. They
changed as those interests demanded. The grantees likewise,
the towns being mere organizations for public purposes, were
liable to have their public powers, rights, and duties modified
or abolished at any moment by the legislature.
They are incorporated for public, and not private objects.
They are allowed to hold privileges or property only for public
purposes. The members are not shareholders, nor joint partners in any corporate estate, which they can sell or devise to
others, or which can be attached and levied on for their debts.
Hence, generally, the doings between them and the legislature are in the nature of legislation rather than compact, and
subject to all the legislative conditions just named, and therefore to be considered as not violated by subsequent legislative
changes.
It is hardly possible to conceive the grounds on which a different result could be vindicated, without destroying all legislative sovereignty, and checking most legislative improvements
-and amendments, as well as supervision over its subordinate
,public bodies.
Thus, to go a little into details, one of the highest attributeE
and duties of a legislature is to regulate public matters with
all public bodies, no less than the community, from time to
time, in the manner which the public welfare may appear to
demand.
It can neither devolve these duties permanently on other
public bodies, nor permanently suspend or abandon them
itself, without being usually regarded as unfaithful, and, indeed, attempting what is wholly beyond its constitutional competency.
It is bound, also, to continue to regulate such public matters
and bodies, as much as to organize them at first. Where not
restrained by some constitutional provision, this power is inherent in its nature, design, and attitude; and the community
possess as deep and permanent an interest in such power remaining in and being exercised by the legislature, when the
public progress and welfare demand it, as individuals or corporations can, in any instance, possess in restraining it. (See
Taney, C. J., in 11 Peters, 647. -548.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

535

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

In Goszler v. The Corporation of Georgetown, 6 Wheaton,
596-599, it was held that a city with some legislative power
as to by-laws, streets, &c., could, after establishing a graduation for its streets, and after individuals had built in conformity
to it, change materially its height. This case appears to settle
the principle that a legislative body cannot part with its powers by any proceeding, so as not to be able to continue the
exercise of them. It can and should exercise them, again and
again, as often as the public interests require. And though
private interests may intervene, and then should not be injured
except on terms allowed by the Constitution; yet public interests
in one place or corporation may be affected injuriously by laws,
without any redress, as legislation on public matters looks to
the whole and not a part, and may, for the benefit of the whole
to the injury of a part, change what is held under it by public
bodies for public purposes. The legislature, therefore, could
not properly divest itself of such control, nor devolve it on
towns or counties, nor cease from any cause to exercise it on
all suitable occasions. (Clark v. Corporation of 'Washington,
12 Wheat. 54.)
Its members are made by the people agents or trustees for
them on this subject, and can possess no authority to sell or
grant their power over the trust to others. Presbyterian Church
v. City of New York, 5 Cowen, 542; Fairtitle v. Gilbert, 2 D.
& E. 169.
Nor can the public be estopped by such attempts, since the
acts of their agents are to be for the public, and for its benefit,
and not for themselves individually, and are under a limited
authority or jurisdiction, so as to be void if exceeding it.
Looking to the subject, when, as here, the grantees as well
as the grantors are public bodies, and created solely for municipal and political objects, the continued right of the legislature
to make regulations and changes is still clearer. Perhaps a
stronger illustration of.this principle than any yet cited exists
in another of our own decisions.
In the State of Maryland v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad,
3 Howard, 551, this court held, that a grant by the legislature
to a county of a sum forfeited could be dispensed with by the
legislature afterwards, as it was made for public, not private
purposes, and to a public body.
There is no private interest or property affected by this
course, but only public corporations and public privileges.
It may be otherwise in case of private bodies, or individuals,
or of private property granted or acquired. The legislature
might not be justified to revoke, transfer, or abolish them on
account of the private character of the party or the subject.

536

SUPREME, COURT.
East Hartford v. lHartford Bridge Co.

(Pawlet v. Clark, 9 Cranch, 292; Terrett v. Taylor, Tb. 48-50.)
But every thing here is public.
While maintaining the exemption of private.corporations
from legislative interference, Justice Washington, irr 4 Wheat.
659, in the Dartmouth 'College case, still admits that corporaf
tions for "public government," such as a "towi or city," are
under the control of legislation; whereas private corporations are
governed by the statutes of their founders, or by their charters
(pp. 660, 661). He remarks further, that the members of such
the charter for the public ben"accepted
a public
efit
alone,corporation
and there would
seem to be no reason why the govor modify
ernment,
under
limitations,
such
a grant
at proper
pleasure"
(pp. 661, should
663). not
Andalter
Justice
Story
concurs with him by saying: "It may also be admitted, that
corporations for mere public government, such as towns, cities,
and counties, may, in many respects, be subject to legislative
contract." .4 Wheat. 694.
When they are wished to be in some respects not so subject,
but to act exclusively, it should be so expressed in the constitutions of their States. fhat
is'exclusive in them vould
there appear expressly, and when it is not, a legislative provision, if made for the purpose of rendering it exclusive, is, for
the reasons before stated, doubtful in its validitd.
The public character of all the parties to this grant, no less
than its subject-matter, seems, therefore, to show, that nothing
in the nature of a contract, with terms to be fulfilled or impaired like private stipulations, existed in this case so as to
prevent subsequent interference with the matter by the legislature, as the public interests should appear to require.
But in order to justify the plaintiff in what it set up below,
there must not only have been a contract, or quasi contract, but
a violation of its obligation. It will therefore be uful to follow out farther the nature and conditions of this supposed contact in order to tshrow more light on both the questions
whether this grant was such a contract as the Constitution contemplatesand whether it has been at all impaired. The authority of a legislature may probably supersede such a ferry as
is' public, and across a great public highway of a navigable
river, by allowing a bridge over the same place, as has before
been virtually held by this court (11 Peters, 422 ; 6 Howard,
607). It could also alter or abolish wholly the public political
corporation to which the grant was made, as this is yearly
done in dividing towns and counties, and discontinuing old
ones. It is therefore clear, that, whatever in the nature of a
contract could be considered to ehsst in such a case, by a grant
ta
twn of some pubic privilege, there must be implied in it

DECEMBER

TERM,

1850.

537

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

a condition, that the power still remained or was reserved in
the legislature to modify or discontinue the privilege in future,
as the public interests might from time to time appear to require. Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 421;
West River Bridge v. Dix et al., 6 Howard, 507.
Accordingly, it is admitted in this case, that the legislature;
as early as 1695, in fact regulated the tolls of this ferry, and
continued to do it until 1783, when it granted to East Hartford one half of the privilege, and that only " during the pleasure of the Assembly." All con,,erned in the privilege, therefore,
became thus estopped to deny-that this ferry was to be used
by the town as a mere public license, and to be used in conformity with the views of the legislature as to what in future
might be deemed most useful to the community at large.
Because the old tbwn of Hartford acquiesced in this regulation of tolls, and in this transfer of half to East Hartford in
this limited or conditional manner, and the latter acquiesced
in the a(ceptance of it on the terms expressed, to hold it during
"the pleasure of the Assembly."
Such being, then, the public character of the subject and
parties of the gant, and such the terms and conditions of it,rather than being one of private property, for private purposes,
to private corporations or individuals, and absolutely rather
than conditionally, -ii
what respect has it been violated by
the legislature?
No pretence is made that it has been, unless by the discontinuance of the ferry in 1818 and in 1841. The former act of
the legislature was passed under the following circumstances:
a bridge had been authorized over the river near the ferry as
early as 1808, and no provision was then made as to the ferry,
probably from a belief that it would, after the bridge was finished, fall into disuse, and be of no importance to any body.
No objection was made or could be sustained to the constitutionality of this incorporation in this way (11 Peters, 420;
4 Pick. 463). But when the bridge became damaged greatly

in 1818, and the company was subjected to large expenses in
rebuilding, the legislature deemed it proper to provide, in its
behalf, that the ferry should not be kept up afterwards, except
when the bridge became impassable.
The words were, that, "after the company shall have repaired
the bridge, &c., the ferries by law established between the
towns of Hartford and East Hartford shall be discontinued,
and said towns shall never thereafter be permitted to transport
passengers across said river," &c.
This bridge corporation, being the present defendant in error, pro zeeded therefore to rebuild ard keep up their bridge in

5SUPREME

COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

a more costly manner, and beneficially and safely to the community. They were a private, Pecuniary body, and were aided
much by the suspension or discontinuance of the ferry in their
additional charter.
The legislature, in making the discontinuance, did only what
it supposed was advantageous to the public, by securing a better, quicker, and surer method of passing the river on the bridge;
and it thus appears to have violated no condition or terms of
any contract or quasi contract, if it had made any with the
plaintiff. 11 Peters, 542.
On the contrary, as before suggested, the legislature merely
acted within its reserved rights, and only passed a new law on
a public subject, and affecting only a public body. But beside
the implied powers continuing in the legislature, as heretofore
explained, and which warrant all it did in 1818, and the exercise of which cannot be regarded as impairing any contract,
we have seen that there was an express provision in the grant
to East Hartford, limiting the half of the ferry transferred to it
"during the pleasure of the Assembly."
The legislative pleasure expressed in 1818, that the ferry
should cease, came then directly within this condition; and
the permission to exercise that pleasure in this way was not
only acquiesced 'n from 1818 to 1836, but was treated as the
deliberate understanding on both sides from 1783 to 1836.
The statute-books of Connecticut are full of acts regulating
ferries, including this, and modifying their tolls from 1783
downwards, and in many instances imposing new and onerous
duties. See 1 Stat. of Conn. 314 to 327.
And to show how closely the power of the legislature was
exercised to regulate this Matter, without being regarded as
impairing in that way any contract or obligation, it appears
that when Hartford was incorporated into a city, about 1820
(Rev. Stat 110), it was expressly provided: " But said city
shall have no power to regulate or affect the fisheries in, or the
ferry upon, said river" (Connecticut).
Well, too, might East Hartford, in 1783, be not unwilling to
take her charter and half the ferry, subject to this suspension;
as her own existence at all, then and thereafter, depended on
legislative pleasure; and as all the property or privileges of the
old town would remain with the old one, when a new was
carved out of it, unless otherwise expressly provided. 4 Mass.
384; 2 N. Hamp. 20.
Our inquiries would terminate here, as this legislation, in
1818, is the supposed violation of a contract that was chiefly
relied on below, had there not been several other acts of legislation as to this ferry in 1836, 1841, and 1842, yome of which

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

539

East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

are claimed to have impaired contracts made with the plaintiff, either then or in 1783.
But the act of. 1836, about which much has been said in the
argument here, and much was very properly urged in the court
below, simply repealed that part of the act of 1818 discontinuing the ferry. It thus affected the bridge company deeply
and injIuriously, but did not impair any supposed contract with
East Hartford, was not hostile to its rights, and is not, therefore,
complained of by that town, nor open to be considered as a
ground for revising the judgment below under this writ of
error.
On this see Satterlee v. latthewson, 2 Peters, 413 ; Jackson
v. Lamphire, 3 Peters, 289; 7 Peters, 243; 11 Peters, 540;
Strader v. Graham, ante, 82.
The State court, however, pronounced it unconstitutional,
and had jurisdiction to do it, and if they had not arrived at
such a result, they could not have .sustained some of their
other conclusions.
This decision of theirs being founded on their own constitution and statutes, must be respected by us, and in this inquiry
must be considered prinid facie final. Luther v. Borden, 7
Howard, 1, and cases there collected.
We shall, therefore, not revise the legal correctness of that
decision, but refer only to a few of the facts connected with
the repeal of 1836, and with the decision on it b~low, so far as
is necessary to explain the legislation subsequent to it, and
which is yet to be examined.
The legislature does not appear to have proceeded at that
time on any allegation of wrong or neglect on the part of the
bridge company; nor did .they make any compensation to
the latter for thus taking from it the benefits of a discontinuance of the ferry, and attempting to revive half the privileges
again in East Hartford. The State court appears to have
6onsidered such a repeal, under all the circumstances, as contrary at least to the vested rights of the bridge company, and
to certain provisions in the State constitution.
See, also,
The Enfield Bridge v. The Hartford and New Haven Railroad Co., 17 Conn. 464.
But, without going farther into the history of this proceedin- in 1836, ahd the decision on it by the State court, it is
manifest that the dissatisfaction and complaints growing out
of it, or some other important reason, induced the legislature
in 1841 to repeal the repealing act of 1836, and thus to leave
the bridge company once more in the 'full enjoyment of its
former privileges after the fe'ry had been discontinued in
1818.

540

SUPREME COURT.
East Hartford v. Hartford Bridge Co.

To this conduct of the legislature the plaintiff in error objected, and under this writ asks our decision, whether it does
not impair contracts which had before been made with it
by the legislature. In reply, it need only be stated that we
think it does not, and this for the reasons already assigned
why it was competent for the legislature to pass the discontinning part of the act of 1818, if it thought proper, and in
this did not violate the Constitution of the United States, as
to contracts.
But matters were not permitted to.remain long in this position. In 1842 the legislature proceeded to repeal the act of
1841, and thus sought virtually to restore the ferry to Hartfoid
and East Hartford, as it stood before 1818. It appears to
have done this on the complaint of East Hartford, that half
of the ferry had been taken away from her without making
"any compensation."
It is unnecessary, in relation to tb s last repeal, to say more
than that, like the repeal of 1836, and for like reasons, the
State court pronounced it void; and, on the ground before
explained, we are not called on by this writ to reconsider or
reverse that decision. ,
It follows, then, finally, that East Hartford, in proceeding to
exercise the ferry privilege again since 1842, and to the special
injury of the bridge company, has done it without legal auth -'ritV, and should therefore be restrained by injunction from
exercising it longer.
The judgmert below must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of Errors within and for the
State 6f Connecticut, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Supreme Court of
Errors in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
costs.

