DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

395

Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Co. v. Nesbit et al.

THE BALTIMORE AND SUSQUEHANNA RAILROAD COMPANY, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR, V. ALEXANDER NESBIT AND PENELOPE D. GOODWIN.
The State of Maryland granted a charter to* railroad company, in which provision
was made for the condemnation of land to the following effect; namely, that a jury
should be summoned to assess the damages, which award should be confirmed by
the County Court, unless cause to the contrary was shown.
The charter further provided, that the paynent, or tender of payment, of such valuation should entitI the company to the estate as fully as if it had been conveyed.
In 1836, there was an inquisition by a jury, condemning certain lands, which was
ratified and confirmed by the County Court.
In 1841, the legislature passed an act directing the County Court tozet asiae the
inquisition and order a new one.
On the 18th of April, 1844, the railroad company tendered the amount of the damages, with interest, to the owner of the land, which offer was refused; and on the
26th of April, 1844, the owner applied to the County Court to set aside the inquisition, and order a new one, which the court directed to be done.
The law'of 1841 was not a law impairing the obligation of a contract. It neither
changed the contract between the company and the State, nor did it divest the
I
company of a vested title to the land.
The charter provided, that, upon tendering the damages to the owner, the title to the
land should become vested in the company. There having been no such tender
when the act of 1841 was passed, five years after the inquisition, that act only left
the parties in the situation where the charter placed them, and no titl was divested out of the company, because they had acquired none.
The States have a right to direct a re-hearing of cases decided in their own courts.
The only limit upon their power to pass retrospective laws is, that the Constitution of the United States forbids their passing ex past facto laws, which are retrospective penal laws. But a law merely divesting antecedent vested rights of
property, where there is no contract, is not inconsistent with the Constitution of
the United States.

THIS case was broughot up from Baltimore County Court by
a writ of errbr issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case are stated in -the opinion of the court,
to which the reader is referred.

It was argued by .Mir. Campbell and l1lr. Yellot, for the plain.
tiff in error, and lr. ohnson, for the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the following
points :1st. That the charter was a contract between the State of
Maryland and the railroad company, and that the act of
1841, which varies the terms of that contract without the compaany's assent, -is a law impairing the obligation of the contract,
and therefore unconstitutional and void. Green v. Biddle, 8
Wheat. 84; Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat.
647, 663, 668, 669, 699, 710, 711, 712.
2d. That the title to the land condemned having vested by
the confirmation of the inquisition, and the tender of the money

anterior to the action by the Baltimore County Court, under the

996

SUPREME COURT.

Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Co. v. Nesbit et al.

act of 1841, that act is unconstitutional, because it divests
vested rights, and in this way impairs the obligation of contracts.
Mr. Johnson contended, That there is nothing of the character of a contract in
the charter, that, by the Constitution of the United States,
deprives the legislature of the State of the power to order a
re-hearing of the case. Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 380;
Livingston's Lessee v. Moore et al., 7 Pet. 469; Wilkinson
v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627; S. C., 10 Pet. 294; Watson v. Mercer,
8 Pet. 88; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 40.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us from the District of Maryland,
upon a writ of error to the court of Baltimore County, prose.
cuted under the twenty-fifth sectio i of the Judiciary Act.
The facts from which the questions to be adjudged arise are
the following.
The legislature of Maryland, by a law of the 18th of Febmary, 1828, incorporated the plaintiff in error by the name
and style of the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company, for the purpose of constructing a railroad from the city
of Baltimore to some point or points on the Susquehanna
River. To enable this company to acquire such land, earth,
timber, or other materials as might be necessary for the construction and repairing of the road, the law above mentioned,
by its fifteenth section, authorized the company to agree with
the owners of the land and other materials wanted, for the
urchase or use thereof; and in the event that the company
could not agree with the owners, or that the owners were
femes covert under age, insane, or out of the county, this section provided that a justice of the peace of the county, upon
application, should thereupon issue his warrant to the sheriff
to summon a jury, who, in accordance with the directions contained in the same section of the statute, should value the
damages which the owner or owners would sustain, and that
the inquisition, signed and sealed by the jury, should .be returned by the sheriff to the clerk or prothonotary of his county,
to be filed in court, and that the same should be confirmed by
said court at its next session, if no sufficient cause to the contrary be shown.
The section further provides, that "such valuation, when
paid or tendered to the owner or owners of- said property, or
to his, her, or their legal representatives, shalf entitle the company to the estate and interest in the same thus valued, as

DECEMBER TE:RM, 1850.

397

-Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Co. v. Nesbit et al

fully as if it had been conveyed by the owner or owners of the
same; and the valuation, if not received when tendered, may
at any time thereafter be recovered from the company without
costs by the sal owner or owners, his, her, or their legal representatives."
It appears that, under the authority of the statute above
cited, an inquisition was (upon the application of the plaintiff
in error) held by the sheriff of Baltimore County, on the 13th
of December, 1836, upon the lands of the defendants in error
as possessed by Alexander Nesbit in the character" of trustee,
and by Penelope D. Goodwin as cestui que trust, and the
damages assessed by the jury upon that inquisition, for the
land to be appropriated to the- use of the plaintiff in error,
were to the said Alexander Nesbit nothing, and to the said Penelope D. Goodwin five hundred dollars;that this inquisition
having been returned to the court of'Baltimore County, the
following order in relation thereto was made on the 24th.of
April, 1837: " Ordered, That this inquisition be ratified and
confirmed, no cause to the contrary having been ahown." Subsequently to this order of cdnfirmation, it appears that payment of the money assessed foi damages to the lands of the
defendants was not tendered by the plaintfiff nor any measure
whatever in relation to this inquisition adopted by them, prior
to the 18th day of April, 1844, on which last day the plaintiff
by its agent tendered to the defendant Penelope D. Goodwjn the sum of $ 500, the principal of the damages assessed,
with $ 22Q.47 as interest for seven years four months and fivedays on the amount of that assessment, making an aggregae
of'$ 720.42. In the mean time, between the date of the inquisition and the tender just mentioned, viz. at their December
session of 1841; the legislature of Maryland passed a statute, bywhich they directed, "that the Baltimore County Court should
set aside the inquisition found for the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company condemning the lands of Penelope
D. Goodwin of said county, and that the said court direct an
inquisition de novo to be taken, and -that such proceedings be
had as in cases where inquisitions in similar cases are set
aside." In obedience to the statute last cited, the court of
Baltimore County, upon the petition of the defendants in
error, presented to them on the 26th of April, 1844, entered
a rule upon the plaintiff in error to show cause, on the 11th
day of May succeeding, why the inquisition should not be set
aside, and an inquisition de novo directed as prayed for, and,.
after hearing counsel for and against the application, did, on.
the 13th of May, 1847, order and adjudge, that the inquisition
returned in that case be set aside, and that hereafter the
VOL. X.

34

398

SUPREME COURT.

Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Co. v. Nesbit et aL

court will upon application of the petitioners provide for the
taking of an inquisition de novo, according to law.
The court of Baltimore County is admitted to be the highest in the State in which a decision upon this matter could be
had, there being no appeal allowed from its judgment.
The plaintiff in error insists, 1st. That, its charter being a contract between itself and
the State, the act 'of 1841, having varied that contract without the assent of .the company, was a law impairing the
obligation of a contract, and therefore unconstitutional and
void.
2d. That, the title to the land condemned having vested by
the confirmation of the inquisition, and the tender of the
money anterior to the judgment of the Baltimore County Court
under the act of 1841, this act of the legislature is unconstitutional, because it divests vested rights, and in this way impairs
the obligation of contracts.
In considering the two propositions here laid down by the
plaintiff in error, the first criticism to which they would seem
t6 be obnoxious is this, that they assume as the groundwork
for the conclusions they present, that which remains to be demonstrated by a fair interpretation of the legislative action
which it is sought to impugn. For instance, with respect to
the first proposition, admitting the. charter of the plaintiff to
be a contract, the reality and character of any variation thereof by the legislature must he shown, before it can be brought
within the inhibition of the Constitution. So, too, with respect
to the second charge, it must, certainly be shownd'that there
was a perfect investment of property in the plaintiff in error
by contract with the legislature, and a subsequent arbitrary
divestiture of that property by the latter body, in order to constitute their proceeding an act impairing the obligation of a
contract.
The mode of proceeding prescribed by the fifteenth section
of the charter of incorporation, for the acquiring of land and
other materials for constructing the road, has been already
stated. Let us now inquire by what acts to be performed by
the company, and at what p'eriod of time, the investiture of
such land and other property in them was to become complete, - what conditions or stipulations were imposed on the
plaintiff in error as necessary to the completion of their contract. This will be indispensable in order to ascertain whether
any variation of these conditions, amounting to an infraction
of the contract, has been made by the Maryland legislature.
After declaring that -the inquisition, when returned, if no objection be made, shall be recorded, the fifteenth section pro-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

399

Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Co. v. Nesbit et al.

vides that the payment or tender of the valuation to the owner
of the land, &e., shall entitle the company to the estate and interest in the same as fully as if it had been conveyed by the
owner or owners thereof. Thus it appears that it is the payment or tender of the value assessed by the inquisition which
gives title to the company, and consequently, -without such
paythent or tenider, no title could, by the very terms of the law,
have passed to them. Have the legislature by any subsequent
arrangement abrogated or altered this condition, or the consequences which were to flow from its performance? From
the period of the assessment to the 18th of April, 1844, this
record discloses no evidence of any acceptance by the company
of the proceedings under the inquisition, or such at least as
could bind them. It can hardly be questioned, that, without
acceptance by the acts and in the mode prescribed, the company were not bound; that if they had been dissatisfied with
the estimate placed upon the land, or could have procured a
more eligible site for the location of their road, they would
have been at liberty befure sucb acceptance wholly to renounce
the inquisition. The proprietors of the land could have no authority to coerce the company into its adoption. This being
the case, there could up to this point be no mutuality, and
hence no contract, even in the constrained and compulsory
character in which it was created and imposed upon the proprietors by the authority of the statute. This view of the
matter seems to accord with the opinion of the Chancellor of
Maryland in his construction of this very charter, in the case
of Compton v. The Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad
Company, where he uses this language: "In the taking of an
inquisition under this and similar statutory provisions, it must
appear that the authority given has been pursued; and as under a writ of ad quod damnumi there should be no unreasonable
delay, much less could any fraudulerft practice be allowed to
pass without check or rebuke." 3 Bland's Chancery Reports,
391. Five years after this inquisition, during all which interval this company neglects or omits the fultilment of the essential condition on performance of which its title depended, the
legislature again interposes; and it may be asked in what respects this interposition amounted to an abrogation or variation of any contract which the legislative body itself, rather
than the proprietors of the land, had been instrumental in
making. We think this interposition in no respect impaired
or contravened the contract alleged to have been previously
existing; that it is perfectly conbistent with all its conditions,
and leaves the parties precisely as they stood from the passage
of the charter, and at full liberty to insist upon whatever rights

406

SUPREME COURT.

Baltimore -nd Susquehanna Railroad Co. v. Nesbit et al.

or interests that law had granted. It divested no rights of
property, because, as we have shown,, none had been vested.
This- intervention was simply the award of a new trial of the
proceedings under the inquisition, which proceedings were of
no avail as a judgment, after such new trial was allowed.
This intervention, too, was the exercise of power by the legislature supposed by that body to belong legitimately to itself;
whether this authority was strictly legislative or judicial, according to the distribution of power in the State government,
was - question rather for that government than for this court
to determine.
What exact partition of powers, legislative, executive, or
judicial, the people of the several States in thair domestic
organization may or should apportion to the different departments of their respective governments, is an inquiry into which
this courI would enter with very great reluctance.
It mighi seem advantageous to some of the States that the
judicial and legislative authorities or functions of the government should be blended in the samebody; and that the legislature should in all cases exercise powers similar to those now
vested in one branch of the British Parliament, and as in some
specified instances in one of the houses of our own national
legislature. Should- such an organization be adopted by a
State, whatever, might be thought of its wisdom, where beyond the body politic of the State would exist any power to
impuga its legitimacy? But in truth no such inquiry regularly ases upon this record. The only questions presented
for our consideration, the only questions we have authority to
,consider here, are, - 1st, Whether under their charter of incorporation and the proceedings therein directed, and which have
been had in pursuance of that charter, the plaintiff in error
has, by contract with the State, been invested with certain
perfect absolute rights of property? And 2dly, Whether such
contract, if any such existed, has been impaired by subsequent
legislation of the State, by a divestiture of those rights? To
each of these questions we reply in the negative; because, as
has already been shown, the conditions of the charter, - condition7s indispensable tQ the vesting of a title in the plaintiff
in errbr,- never were in due time and in good faith fulfillejd;
nor, until after the new trial had been ordered by, he legis aturej pretended to be complied with.
If it were necessary to sustain by precedent the authority or
practice of the State legislature in awarding a new trial, or in
ordering a proceeding in the nature'of an appeal, after litigation actually commenced, or even after judgment, and as to
which provision for ,new trial or appeal had not been pre-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

401

Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Co. v. Nesbit et al.

viously made, a very striking example from this court might
be adduced in the case of Calder and wife v. Bull and wife,
decided as long since as 1798, and reported, in the 3d of Dallas,
p. 386. The facts of that case are thus stated by Chase, Justice,
in delivering his opnion: -" The legislature'of Connecticut,
on the 2d of May, 1795, passed a resolution or law, which, for
the reasons assigned, set aside a decree of the Court of Probate
for Hartford on the 21st of. March, 1794, which decree disapproved of the will of Norman Morrison, made the 21st of August, 1779, and refused to record said will; and granted a new
hearing by the said Court of Probate, with liberty of appeal
therefrom within six mcnths. A new hearing was had in virtue of this resolution or law, before the said Court of Probate,
who, on the 27th of July, 1795, approved the will, and ordered
it to be recorded. In August, 1795, appeal was had to the
Superior Court of Hartford, who, at February term, 1796, affirmed the decree of the Court of Probate. Appeal was had
to the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut, who, in June,
1796, adjudged that there were no errors."
" The effect," says this same judge, "of the resolution or
law of Connecticut above stated is to revise a decision of one
of its inferior courts, and to direct a new hearing of the case
by the same Court of Probate that passed the decree against
the will of Norman Morrison. By the existing law of Connecticut, a right to recover certain property had vested in Calder
and wife in consequence of a decision of a court of justice, but
in virtue of a subsequent resolution or law, and the new hearing thereof, and the decision in consequence, this right to
recover certain property was divested, and the right to the
property declared to be in Bull and wife, the appellees." Upon
a full examination of this case, the court being of the opinion
that the resolution or law of Connecticut awarding the new
trial, with right of appeal, did nbt fall within the technical definition of an ex post facto law, and there being no contract impaired or affected by that resolution, they by a unanimous
decision sustained the judgment founded upon that resolution.
That there exists a general power in the State governments
to enact retrospective or retroactive laws, is a point, too well
settled to admit of question at this day. The only limit upon
this power in the States by the Federal Constitution, and
therefore the only source of cognizance or control with respect
to that power existing in this court, is the provision that these
retrospective laws shall not be such as are technically ex post
facto, or such as impair the obligation of contracts. Thus, in
the case of Watson et al. v. Mercer, 8 Peters, 110, the court
say: "It is clear, that this court has no right to pronounce an
34 *

402

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

act of the* State legislature void, as contrary to the Constitution of the- United States, from the mere fact that it divests
antecedent vested rights of property. 'The Constitution of the
United States does not prohibit the States from passing retrospective laws generally, but only ex post facto laws. Now it
has been solemnly settled by this court, that the phrase ex post
facto is not applicable to civil laws, but to penal and criminal
laws." For this position is cited the case of Calder v. Bull,
already mentioned; of Fletcher v. Peck, 5 Cranch, 138; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 266; and Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 380. Now it must be .apparent that the act of
the Maryland legislature of December, 1841, simply ordering a
new trial of the inquisition, does rot fall within any definition
given of an ex postfacto law, and is not therefore assailable on
that account. We have already shown that this law impaired
the obligation of no contract, because at the time of its passage, and in virtue of any proceeding had under the charter of
the company, no contract between the company on the one
hand, and the State or the proprietors of the land on the other,
in reality existed. We therefore adjudge the act of the legisature of Maryland of December, 1841, and the proceedings
If the court of Baltimore County had in pursuance thereof, to
be constitutional and valid, and order that the judgment of the
said court be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Baltimore County Court, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Baltimore County Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

JOHN B.

BUTLER, LEVI REYNOLDS, JUNIOR, AND WILLIAM OVERFIELD,

LATE BOARD OF CANAL COMMISSIONERS OF PENNSYLVANIA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE C6DxIONWEALTir OF PENNSYLVANIA.

In 1836, the State of Pennsylvania passed a law directing Canal Commissioners to
be appointed, annually, by the Governor, and that their term of office should commence on the 1st of February in every year.

The pay was four dollars per diem.

In April, 1843, certain persons being then in office as Commissioners, the legislature
passed another law, providing amongst other things that the per diem should be
,only three dollars, the reduction to take effect upon the passage of the law; and
that, in the following October, Commissioners should be elected by the people.

The Commissioners claimed the fall allowance during their entire year, upon the

