SUPteEME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.
CHARLES BARNARD, ABEL ADADIS, GEORGE Al. BARNARD, AND CHARLES
LARKIN, ?LAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH ADAHIS, ANDREW H. BENNET, AND JOSEPH FLETCHER.

It was a proper case for contribution in general average for the loss of a vessel where
there was an imminent peril of being driven on a rocky and dangerous part of the
coast,when the vessel would have been inevitably wreKked, with loss of ship, cargo,
and crew, and this immediate peril was avoided by voluntarily stranding the vessel on a less rocky and dangerous part of the coast, whereby the cargo and crew
were saved uninjured.
The cases upon this subject examined.
Where the cargo -yas taken out of the stranded vessel, placed in another one, and
the voyage thus continued to the home port, the contribution should be assessed
on the value of the cargo at the home port.
The crew were entitled to wages after the ship was stranded, while they were employed in the saving of the cargo.
A commission of- two and one half per cent. was properly allowed for collecting the
general average. It rests upon the usage and ustom of merchants and average
brokers.

THIs was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the Southern District of New York.
The defendants in error brought an action in the court below
to recover contributidn in general average, on account of the
alleged voluntary stranding of the ship Brutus owned by them,
from the plaintiffs in error, as owners of twenty bales of nutria
skins, which formed a part of her cargo at the time of the
stranding.
The facts are minutely stated in the opinion of the court.
The cause was argued orally by 3rf. Boardman,for the plaintiffs in error, and printed argumenta were submitted by 31Tr.
Webster, for the plaintiffs in error, and M1Jr. Lord,for the defendants in error.
11fr. Boardnian,for tlie plaintiffs in error.
First Point. When the stranding of a vessel is inevitable,
and her master, in the ordinary exercise of his duty as a navigator, directs her course to that part of the shore which he supposes to' be the safest for the vessel, such act of the master does
not render the stranding a voluntary sacrifice, or entitle the
ship-owner to contribution from the owners of the cargo in
general, average.
I. The following authorities may be cited in support of the
judgment below, but they do not sustain it. Columbian Ins.
Go, v. Ashby, 13 Peters, 337; Sims v. Gurney, 4 Binney,
513; Reynolds v. Ocean Ins. Co., 22 Pick. 191.
II. The following authorities fully sustain the plaintiffs in
error on this uoint. Taylor v. Cirtis, 1 Holt's Nisi Prius

DECEMBER TER'M, 1850.

271

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

Cases, 192, note; 3 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 69; Walker v.
U. States Ins. Co., 11 Serg. & Rawle, 61; Meech et al. v.
Robinson,.4 Wharton, 360 ; Scudder v. Bradford, 14 Pick. 14;
Abbott on Shipping, Perkins's ed., 490 wd notes; Ib. 480;
2 Phillips on Insurance, 98.
III. The only voluntary sacrifice made was in the slipping
of the ends of the chains. Walker v. U. States Ins. Co., 11
Serg. & Rawle, 66; Nickerson v..Tyson, 8 Mass. 467.
Second Point. The cargo, if chargeable at all, should have
contributed according to its value at Buenos Ayres. Spafford
v. Dodge, 14 Mass. 79; M1utual Safety Co. v. Cargo of the
George, 3 N. Y. Legal Observer, 262, and 8 Law Reporter,
361; Tudor v. Macomber, 14 Pick. 38; 3 Kent's Com. 242;
Abbott on Shipping, Perkins's ed., 504, notes.
I. The enterprise was terminated, and the affreightment dissolved, by the loss of the Brutus, before commencing the intended voyage. Dunnet v. Tomhagen, 3 Johns. 156; The
Saratoga, 2 Gallison, 178, note 23, cases cited; Scott v. Libby,
2 Johns. 340; Purvis v. Tumo, 2 Bay, 492.
IL The power of the master to reship the cargo, and thus
to continue the enterprise, extends only to cases where the ship
is lost or disabled 'in the course of the voyage. Shipton v.
Thornton, 9 .Adolph. & Ellis, 337; Jordan v. Warren Ins. Co., 1
Story, 342; 3 Kent's Com. 210; Searle v. Scovell, 4 Johns. Ch.
223; Treadwell v. Union Ins. Co., 6 Cowen, 274; Saltus v.
Ocean Ins. Co., 12 Johns. 112.
III. Buenos Ayres being the place of valuation, the jerked
beef should have been it.cluded among the paying articles, according to its value at that place.
Third Point The owners of the Brutus were not entitled
to the wages and expenses of their master and crew for
any time after it was ascertained that she could not be got
afloat.
Fourth Point. The charge of two and one half per cent.
as commissions or compensation to the plaintiffs, for collecting
the contributions due to themselves, ought not to have been
allowed.
First Point. The first question in this case is of the highest importance in point of principle. The error of the judgment under review seems self-evident. It is indeed a paTadQx.
It amounts to this: that if a navigator, whose ship is inevitably doomed to loss by stranding, should consult his own judgment, and select, for his compulsory voyage to the shore, the
route least perilous for himself and his vessel, such preference
for the safer course is the incurring of a voluntary sacrifice,
which entitles him to compensation.'

272

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

Or it may be stated in this way: a mariner, whose ship is
thus inevitably doomed, cannot avoid becoming entitled to
contribution in general average, unless he blindly forbears all
action whatever, or navigates with an express view and purpose to effect the destruction of the adventure. Neither reason
nor authority affords support to thi extraordinary doctrine.
"General average is founded on the simple principle of natural justice, that where two 'or more parties are concerned in a
common sea risk, and one of them makes a sacrifice for the
common safety, the loss shall be assessed upon all, in proportion to the share of each in the adventure; and the greater
sacrifice of the first shall be compensated by the contribution
of the. others." Taylor v. Curtis, 1 Holt's N. P. Cas. 192, note.
3 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 69. Its origin is commonly traced
to the Rhodian Iaw de jactu, which named only the case of a
jettison; and, although the rule is not to b6 considered as thus
limited, yet the case there put is an apt illustration, and no
case essentially different from this illustration can fairly be considered within the rule. Goods cast overboard in a storm to
lighten the vessel, masts, spars, or rigging cut away to prcvent
her being driven ashore, or carried away in an effort to avoid,
by some unusual means, an impending calamity, running a
ship on shore to avoid capture, slipping a cable or an anchor
for general safety, are the usual instances found in adjudged
cases. Perkins's Abbott on Shipping, 480,'notes. They are all
within the illustration given in the Rhodian law; and, upon
principles of natural justice, are proper cases for contribution.
But when a ship does no more than pursue that course of
navigation which, independently of th good or evil thence resulting tb cargo, is most safe for herself, how can-she be said to
encounter a peril or incur a loss for the benefit of her cargo ?
This is not answered by the precedents of allowance for parts
of the ship or her tackle jettisoned for common benefit; because,
although it might be proper to make such sacrifice for the benefit of the ship alone, were she empty, yet the act is the separation
and destruction. of a part for the benefit 9 f the community of
interests which still remain as such contending against the common danger. 'Not so, when the ship is run ashore as the safest
direction which can be given to her; then the whole community
goes together, taking the same direction and encountering the
same peril. It is a mere accidental result, that the ship suffers
more than the cargo.
The Brutus was not voluntarily sacrificed. On the contrary,
she was lost by the direct and unavoidable operation of a vis
major,unaided by any volltion of mind or agency of man. The
gale commenced on the 8th of October, at 4 A. M., and contin-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

273

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

ued through that day and until the evening of the next, when it
blew a hurricane. At 9 o'clock the best bower chain broke,
and at 10 the small bower gave way. The vessel was then at
the mercy of the elements. There was np.possibiity of avoiding a stranding. The mate who had the command of the vessel says especially that it was impossible to avoid going ashore,
and that all he did was to make sail for and reach a place where
she could be stranded with the chance of the least damage. To
say that there was a voluntary stranding is an absurdity; as
well might it be said that a man who jumps overboard from a
burning vessel, and is drowned in the attempt to reach the shore,
voluntarily drowns himself. The case admitted of no alternative.It is a rule, that the mind of man must concur in producing
the injury which shall entitle a party to compensation in general average. Here the mind operated only to diminish the
sacrifice as much as practicable, and not to produce it.
It is well remarked in the note to Holt's Nisi Prius Reports
before referred to, that" there are some cases on the subje.ct of
general average in the reports, but there is not much to be collected from them. The safest guide is principle, well studied
and understood." 3 Com. Law Rep. 70.
Some of the cases, however, may be looked into with advantage. The Supreme Court of New York, by Kent, Ch. J.,
in Bradhurst v. The Columbian Ins. Co., 9 Johns. 14, decided,
that, if the ship be wholly lost by the act of running her
ashore, compensation in general average can never be due to the
owners, or, as it has been technically expressed, that in all cases
of stranding, the salva nai'i is indispensable to a recovery. 13
Peters, 334. .This decision-was made in 1812. It gave rise to
much discussion. Mr. Justice Story, in his note to page 349 of
the fourth American edition of A.bbott on Shipping, took ground
against the doctrine of Kent.
This questio vexata, with the great name of Kent upon one
side and the equally great or greater authority of Story on the
other, was not brought to ;. final test until the case of the Hope
was decided in 1839. Columbian Ins. Co. v. Ashby, 13 Peters,
3,42. On that occasion Mr. Justice Story, in a very able and
convincing judgment, definitively overruled the opinion of the
great commentator upon American law. That judgment will
be much relied upon as an authorityfor the plaintiff. Yet nothing was decided, except that neither the salva navi, nor a prior
consultation by the master with his officers and crew, was
necessary. Nothing else was discussed by counsel, or ad-judged in the opinion. The Hope, though in imminent peril,
and not securely moored, was still afloat, and held by her

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et aL

anchors, when the master, for the preservation of vessel and
cargo, slipped his cables, and ran her on shore (p. 332). The
court (p. 337) treat the voluntary stranding as expressly found
by the special verdict, as indeed it was. Nor could it be
doubted from the facts found; i. e. that she was still held by her
anchors, and might possibly have survived the storm, when he
voluntarily slipped her cables (thereby relinquishing her existing means of keeping afloaf), and ran her on shore.
The case of the Hope being clearly irrelevant, there is to be
found in the books but a single case which affords any support
to the judgment below. That one case is Sims v. Gurney, 4
1inney, 513. It was as follows.
The ship Woodrop Sims encountered a storm in Delaware
Bay, and when she was driving before the storm toward Egg
Island flats, where she would have soon stranded, her pilot
changed her course, and ran her ashore on Cape May,,as the
most convenient place to save the ship, crew, and property
(p. 514).
It will be seen that these facts were very similar to the facts
proved in the present case. The suit was by the ship-owners
for general average. Judge Yeates tried the case. His charge
is rather loosely stated. " He inclined to think it a case of
general average throughout." (p. 516.)
The plaintiff had a verdict, hnd a motion was made for a
new trial, upon the ground, among others, "that the verdict
was against law, as the vessel's going ashore was not a voluntary act by the captain, pilot, or officers, but the inevitable
consequence of the gale then blowing." And this point was
most ably argued.
Chief Justice Tilghman said (p. 526),-" It seems, at first
view, not very reasonable that contribution should be asked
for damage occasioned by an act which, in fact, was for the
benefit of the ship. But the laW is" certainly so, provided the
act which occasioned the damage was conducive to the common safety."
For this "certainly" no authority is cited; and the remark
is a little like Dr. Sangrado's candid acknowledgment, that
the dtath of all who took his remedy would have raised in his
mind a doubt of its efficacy, but that he knew it to be beneficial. "lUpon the whole," says the learned judge, after a rambling and protracted argument, "it appears to me that it was
a nice point on which the jury had to decide, but there is no
sufficient cause for setting aside the verdict." (p. 527.)
Yeates, J. stated to the jury. "that, upon the facts as they
were affectcd by the rule of law, his mind had been in a painfiil, dissatisfied state, during the trial "; and in reporting the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

275

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

case to the court, he stated that "he could not say he was satisfied or dissatisfied with the verdict." (p. 516.)
A Mr. Tilghman, who argued the case for the plaintiff, put
it that it was a question of fact for the jury (p. 524), and his
namesake, the judge, seems to have adopted the argumenL
(p. 527).
Yeates, J. (p. 527) puts it strongly on the same.ground, Ynd
Brackenridge, J. -,imply concurs.
The facts were certainly more complicated in that case than
in the present; and it may be, under all the circumstances, that it
was a question of fact proper for the decision of a jury. There
was, indeed, no exception or complaint of any error in the
charge. (p. 516.)
1. In this view of the case, it may well be doubted whether
any law point was decided in it, and it is certain Justices Yeates
and Brackenridge so regarded it.
2. The singular opinion of Tilghman, Ch. J. is but slenderly
sustained by its own reasoning, and is completely overruled by
two cases in the same court, to which we will pow refer.
In Walker v. U. States Ins. Co., 11 Serg. & lRawle, 61, A. D.
1824, the vessel was laboring in a storm, and wholly ungovernable, when'the master put her helm hard up, and ran her ashore,
in order to get her into the best place for the preservation of
the lives of the crew, the vessel, and the cargo. (pp. 62, 65.)
The court, per Gibson, J., says, -" It is not enough that
there be a deliberate irtent to do an act which may or may not
lead to a loss; there must be a deliberate purpose to sacrifice
the thing at all events, or, at the very least, to put it in a situation in which the dangdr of eventual destruction would be increased." Again, "Nor do I deem it of any importance that
the master and crew thought their situation would, in any
event, be bettered by the measures that were afterwards taken.
Both are equally'remote from a deliberate intention to sacrifice
the ship, or tp increase the rlsk of if; and without that there
can be no claim to general average."
True it is that in this case the court say that they leave
Sims v. Gurney untouched. But they certainly overrule Tilghman's opinion.
In Meech v. Robinson, 4 Wharton, 361, A. D. 1839, the
court, per Kennedy, J., ater explaining Gurney v. Sims in a
way which would divest it of all applicability to tht *present
case, stating it to be a very questionable case, at best, and
shaken, if not overruled, by Walker v. United States Ins.
Co., lA Serg. & Rawle, 61, just referred to, says, -" The
running of the vessel ashore cannot with propriety be said
to have been voluntary, nor can it, indeed, be well said that

276

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. ?,. Adams ot al.

the loss of the vessel was occasioned thereby. For, according to the evidence of the master, which is all that we have,
and all that the plaintiffs rely on to establish their claim, the
vessel being on a lee shore where she could not carry sail, they
found it necessary for the preservation of the lives of the crew,
as the loss of the vessel was then certain beyond a doubt, being in four fathoms water and the land within a mile of her, to
run her ashore, and accordingly they slipped the best bower
anchor, put the vessel before the wind, and in a short time
struck the land. In his cross-examination he further states that
her situation was most desperate, that she would have gone to
the shore at all events, but the mode in which the witness ran
her ashore saved the lives of the crew, and tended to save a
great proportion of the cargo. From this it is perfectly mani.
fest, that the loss of the vessel had become inevitable as the
consequence of a per then present. And in such a case, says
Mr. Phillips, in his Treatise on Insurance, Vol. IL p. 98, when
the acts of the crew are intended to alleviate, instead of avoiding, such consequence, it seems hardly to be voluntarily incurring a loss."
Mr. Benecke, in his work on Insurance (eb. 5, p. 219), in
which, says'Chief Justice Abbott, in his work (p. 343), "there
is so much learning combined with practical experience meets
the present case in so many words, and declares, that if the
situation of the vessel were such as to admit of no alternative,
so that, without running her ashore, she would have been unavoidably lost,, and that nieasure was resorted to for the purpose of saving the lives or liberty of the crew, no contribution
can take place, because nothiog was in fact sacrificed."
"So
here the plain'tiffs suffered nothing; their vessel was doomed
to inevitable destruction by the peril of the sea which surrounded her." After some further observations and citations of like
import, he adds, "The -loss of the ship in question, appearing
to have been inevitable, must therefore be borne by the plaintiffs, who were owners of her."
"This," says Mr. Stevens,
"the Digest and all authors are agreed on; for you cannot in
equity convert a loss which is inevitable into a claim for the
preservation of property." Stevens and Benecke on Averap,
by Phillips, p. 84.
These cases not only overrule Sims v. Gurney, if it can be
considered an authority against the defendants, but are directly
adverse to the judgment now under review. See also Scudder
v. Bradford, 14 Pick. 14; Perkins's ed. of Abbott on Shipping,
490 and notes.
If" the Brutus had beeni held by her anchors, and the mate
had slipped, his cables and run her on shore for the common

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

277

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

safety, a case of voluntary sacrifice might have been presented.
There are several instances of such acts being held a ground
for contribution. 13 Peters, 842; 22 Pick. 197.
But the Brutus, a6 the time of the alleged sacrifice, had been
forced from her anchors by the elements, and was being driven
towards the shore by an irresistible force. The pilot, it is true,
remained at the helm; and, being there, he used his judgment
in giving her the direction which not only was best for the
whole adventure, but best for herself, which would have been
best if she was empty. If this entitles the plaintiffs to recover,
then, in every case of stranding, the owners of the vessel may
be compensated in general average. Whenever the master is
not asleep, insane, or, from some cause, grossly negligent of his
duty, he will use his judgment, and control the helm, so as, in
some degree, to modify the disaster which he cannot avert;
and it will be strange if he cannot swear, as the mate did in
the present case, that he did thus modify it for the common
benefit. Under such a rule, the presence of the master and
crew will be absolutely detrimental to the cargo in most cases
of stranding. Their being on board will only serve to lessen
the injury of the ship, and to create in her favor a claim against
the cargo.
The case of Cutler v. Rae, reported as dismissed for want
of jurisdiction, in 7 Howard, 729, was very ably argued on the
merits by counsel. We copy a part of the argument. "In
Sims v. Gurney, 4 Binney, Ch. J. Tilghman lost sight of the
fact that the subject benefited, i. e. the ship, was the very subject calling for compensation on the pretence that it was sacrificed. When a master finds that his vessel must go on shore,
and merely exerts himself to go in a safe place rather than in a
dangerous one, he no more makes a sacrifice than when, in
navigating his vessel on the sea, he chooses a safe channel
rather than a hazardous one, or chanoes his course to avoid a
rock or a shoal; he does his plain d-ty for the benefit of the
ship as well as of the cargo, and to avoid loss and sacrifice of
the ship, and not to produce them."
If, at the moment of giving the vessel her direction to the
shore, the mate had been asked whether he intended to sacrifice
the vessel for the benefit of the cargo, he certainly would have
replied in the negative, and assured the querist that he wasdoing with the ship the best that could be done for the shii7.
herself.
The only thing like a voluntary sacrifice, in the case, iothe
slipping of the ends of the chains. They impeded the management of the vessel, and were voluntarily jettisoned for the
purpose of relieving her. 11 Serg. & Rawle, 66; 8 Mass. 467.
voL. x.
24

278

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

Second Point. The defendants' nutria skins and the jerked
beef should have been estimated, for the purpose of contribution, at their value at Buenos Ayre's.
1. The value of the nutria skins at Buenos Ayres was only
$ 6,317.27. At New York it was $ 11,000.
2. The value of the jerked beef at Buenos Ayres was
$1,125.18. At New York it was nothing.
It is admitted that, in ordinary cases of average, the rule of
contributory value is the value at the port of destination.
This must necessarily be so; because it is there that the
adventure is terminated, and the deliverance, which forms the
ground-work of the claim for contribution, is consummated.
Besides, it'is rarely possible to refer to any other market for a
rule of estimation. But if the vessel be wholly lost, and the
adventure consequently teriinated at a different place from
the port of destination, the value of the goods at such different
place is to be taken as the contributory value. Perkins's
Abbott on Shipping, 504, note 2. The Supreme Court of
Massachusetts uses the following language, per Jackson, J.,
in Spafford v. Dodge, 14 Mass. 79: -" The contribution must
be adjusted according to the value of the respective articles
saved, at the time when the expenses were incurred, in like
manner as if all parties had been present and each had originally paid his own proportion."
"If the contrilution had been claimed for goods thrown over:
board, or for a mast cut away, the adjustment of it would
necessarily be postponed until the termination of the voyage;
because, until that event, it could not be known whether any
thing would be saved from which to claim a contribution, and
also because each party would be held to contribute according
to the value of what should come to his hands, at the termination of the voyage."
See also Mutual Safety Co. v. Cargo of the George, 3 N. Y.
-Legal Observer, 262; Ibid., 8 Law Reporter, 361.
Tudor v. Macomber, 14 Pick. 38, was a case of average contribution for cargo jettisoned. The vessel was driven ashore
near her port of departure. Curia per Putnam, J.: - " We
think that, if the vessel arrives at the port of destination, the
value should be the net price for which the cargo might have
been sold there," citing Benecke and Abbott. "That is undoubtedly the rule in Great Britain, France, Spain, and Prussia.
Benecke,288. But, says the same auther, should a jettison take
place so near the port of departure that the vessel returns to
the same or to a neighboring port, the actual price of replacing
the goods thrown overboard should be allowed;, or, ifthat could
not be done, the cost price, including shipping charges and

DECEMBER

f ERM, 1850.

279

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

premium of insurance." The question in this case arose upon
the rule as to the goods jettisoned; but all the law writers put
the goods lost and the goods saved on the same footing; and
strenuously maintain that the valuation of each should be
made upon the same principles. See Kent and Abbott at the
pages cited. Kent (Vol. III. p. 242) says, " The contributory
value, if the vessel arrives at the port of destination, is the value
of the goods there." Abbott (Perkins's ed., p. 504) lays down
the rule of value at the port of destination with precisely the
same qualification.
We do not mean to contend, that, in ascertaining the value of
the goods, the arrival of the vessel at the place of valuation is the
essential point. But we sayi that these authorities point to the
place where the adventure terminates, as being the port of
deliverance, and the place where the compensation for effecting
that deliverance first becomes due, and where, of course, it is to
be measured. When goods saved from shipwreck and chargeable for contribution first reach an intermediate port, and are
there accepted by an agent of the shipper, as they may be, they
must be valued at that place.
If they are not so accepted, the owner first becomes chargeable whenever, and, it may be safely affirmed, wherever, they so
reach his hands. But when the voyage is strangled in its inception, there is no. port referable to but. the home port of the
shipper. Destruction of the vessel there necessarily leads to a
xeturn of the cargo into the hands of the shipper. If, permissive
ly, or by express retainer, the master of the disabled ship hires
another vessel, transships the cargo, and carries it to the port
of original destination, this is a new adventure, voyage, and
agency. There is no pretence that an insurance upon these
goods on board the Brutus, "at and from Buenos Ayres to New
York," would have covered them during their voyage on board
the Serene.
The voyage being prevented by the loss of the vessel, before
her departure, the insurer would be responsible, under the first
word, for the damage incurred byithe wreck of the Brutus, but
there his risk would end.
In the present case, the vessel was wholly lost. This terminated the enterprise, dissolved the contract between the
freighters and the ship-owners, deprived the latter of all claim
for freight, and entitled the former to receive their goods. All
this occurred at Buenos Ayres. Dunnett v. Tomhagen, 3 Johns.
156; The Saratoga, 2 Gallison, 178, note 23, and cases cited;
Scott v. Libby and others, 2 Johns. 340.
The claim to average was consequently perfect at Buenos
Ayres. It.was then and there recoverable. It was of course

280

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

then and there ascertainable. A libel in rem in*the Admiralty
Court of that country would have been an appropriate means
of enforcing the claim.
Upon what ground, then, is it that the settlement is transferred to New York, and the goods made to contribute according
to their value there ? It is said that, if a vessel by rrisadventure is disabled from prosecuting her voyage, it is the duty of
the master to transship the goods, and cause them to be carried
to the port of destination.
That may be proper where the disaster occurs in the course
of the voyage. But if it occurs before the sailing, and at the
-very port where the goods were received, the contract of affreightment is at once dissolved. Purvis v. Tunno, 2 Bay,
492.
In this latter case, which is the case before the court, there is
no necessity of vesting the master with the extraordinary powers
which, by the maritime law, he becomes clothed with, when,
at a distant intermediate port, in the absence of all concerned,
he becomes, ex necessitate rei, agent for whomsoever it may
concern, ship-owner, freighter, insurer, &c. Shipton v. Thornton, 9 Adolph. & Ellis, 337; Jordan v. Warren Ins. Co., 1 Story,
342.
At the home port of the freighter, the choice of another vessel
properly devolves upon the freighter. After the freighter has
bargained for the carriage of his goods in _. chosen vessel, the
Ihip-owner cannotinsist upon forwarding the goods by another
vessel, merely because the first has become incapable of commencing the carriage. In that event, the freighter has the right
of making a new choice for himself.
The cases on the authority of the master to transship all, expressly or implfedly, confine it to a port of necessity, after the
ship, in the course of the voyage, has become disabled. 3 Kent's
Com. 210; Searle v. Scovell, 4 Johns. Ch. 223; Saltus v.
Ocean Ins. Co., 12 Johns. 112; Treadwell v. Union Ins. Co.,
6 Cowen, 274.
The rule of cdntributory value adopted below assumes New
York to be the port of deliverance from the peril; it supposes
that, if the goods had been lost in the Serene, the defendants
would have been exonerated from all claim for contribution;
yet most clearly that is not so.
'When, at the port of reception, before the receiving ship has
weighed anchor, or commenced her voyage, she is lost, we insist
that the adventure, and all relations between the parties thereto,
must, then and there, close. All accounts between them touching the intended voyage-attempted) but never even'begunmust, then and there, be adjusted.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

281

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

The rule for which we contend has a twofold operation for
the relief of the defendants in the present case; the rule adopted
below had a twofold operation against them. Their nutria
skins have been made to contribute on a value increased 70 per
cent. by the carriage to New York, in the Serene; the jerked
beef, which was worth nearly $ 1200 at Buenos Ayres, is relieved from all claim for contribution.
This last proposition is clearly not maintainable. The jerked
beef belonged to one of the plaintiffs. He received it from
the Brutus in good order, at Buenos Ayres. We say in
good order, because the judge in his charge assumes that there
was no adequate proof of its having sustained any injury by
the stranding of the vessel.
When the beef was thus returned to the shipper after the
stranding, the judge assumes that it was uninjured, and of
course worth about . 1200. Still it is to contribute nothing,
merely because the shipper was pleased to send it to New York,
and it was lost on that voyage. He might 'have sold it or consumed it at Buenos Ayres, sent it to China, or disposed of it as
he saw fit. In his hands, when delivered from danger by the socalled sacrifice of the Brutus, it was worth $ 1200, yet it shall
contribute nothing, because the voyage on which the owner was
pleased to ship it turned out unfortunately!
It is impossible to sustain this branch of the charge upon any
principle. The common law of rustic arbitrators .alone furnishes a precedent for the rule adopted in relation to the jerked
beef. The court below "split the difference."
The acceptance of the nutria skins at New York by the defendants can have no effect. They had a right to receive their
own property whenever it was tendered to them. By receiving
it, they perhaps adopted and ratified the whole agency of accepting it in their behalf at Buenos Ayres, and shipping it in the
Serene for New York. This probably made themlliable for
freight by the Serene. This they have paid, or are willing to
pay, on demand. The mere acceptance of their own property
cannot change their relations to the owners of, and other shippers by, the Brutus.
To conclude, we insist that the nutria skins should have contributed at the Buenos Ayrean value, and that the jerked beef
should have been included among the subjects of contribution.
Third Point. The owners of the ship Brutus claim contribution for the loss of their vessel. It will not be denied, that
the contracts between them and their master and crew were dissolved and terminated by the destruction of the vessel. The
whole doch'ine of abandonment to underwriters would fall to
the ground, if this were not so. The moment the vessel was
24 *

282

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

wrecked and found innavigable, the crew were at liberty to
leave her. The master could neither detain them, nor profitably empl6y-Uiem. Charges are made for the wages and expenses of both master and crew, long "after it was ascertained that the vessel could not be got afloat, and her sale
was .determined upon." But the court refused to instruct the
jury that these charges were not recoverable. The error was
manifest.
Fourth Point. - The allowance of two and a half per cent.
to the plaintiffs, for collecting the contribution allesrpd to be due
to them in general average, was erroneous.
The case assumes that the plaintiffs sacrificed their vessel for
the common benefit. To ascertain the amount of their claim,
and the proportions in which it is chargeable upon the freighters,
an adjustment is made out at the cost of the contributors. Here
it is supposed all expenses must cease, unless the taxable costs
of a legal tribunal should become recoverable. There is no such
thing known in the lawas a fee or commission to a party for
receiving his own demand.
This action of collection or reception is not done for the
common benefit, nor for the benefit of the defendants. Surely
the defencants, as owners of the nutria skins, are not interested
in the collection, though they were in the adjustment. If the
plaintiffs choose to omit the collection, no one will suffer but
themselves. Upon general principles, it is perfectly absurd and
unjust to demand from one not ihterested in the collecting,
compensation for collecting a demand. Governments, by positive enactment, charge their debtors and tax-payeTs with the
cost of collection. Positive law sometimes imposes costs Vpon
a delinquent debtor, but no such penalty is imposed by the common law. There was no evidence at the trial of any usage of
trade, general or local, sanctioning this exaction. We submit
that it cannot be sustained.
Mr. Lord, for defendants in error.
The questioi on which this judgment rests is, whether, when
a ship is in a peril so imminent that her total loss is inevitable,
to all appearance, a voluntary' stranding, made with a view of
saving the ship and her cargo from total destruction, is to be
contributed for, in the event of any thing being thereby saved?
The plaintiffs in error treat this as an open question. They
also insist, that, as the destruction was inevitable, the stranding
could not be voluntary, in the sense of the rule; that the ship
claimed for, instead of being sacrificed by exposure to the
greater peril, was in fact silbmitted to the less; and that this
'was done in the course of ordinary duty, and so not. an act of

DECErBER TERM, 1850.

283

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

sacrificing at all. These are the views *presented in their first
point, amplified by the considerations in their written argument
They are in opposition to the first point of-the defendants' brief,
and will now be more fully considered.
The subject naturally divides itself into the inquiry, first,
What is the nature of the peril, the avoiding of which by a
voluntary damage gives rise to a contribution ? and secondly,
*What is the character of the act of the master, whidh is to be
deemed voluntary ?
No question is made, and there is no difference pretended
as to the right to contribution, whether the master's act has
caused an absolute physical destruction of the ship, or a partial
injury.
Then what is the nature of the- general average peril? On
the part of the plaintiffs in error, it is said that it must not be of
an inevitable kind. All their argument depends directly or indirectly on the loss in the present case being apparently inevitable
when the stranding was determined on; and from that they argde
that the voyage to the shore was compulsory; that all tfiat man
could do Was to navigate the ship to a safer spot; that it is like
jumping over from a burning ship; that the act of stranding
saved the ship, rather than sacrificed her; and, from the loss
being thus inevitable, he argues that in fact nothing was voluntarily lost, nothing is to be contributed for.
Let us then see what is a general average peril ifi the conceled instances of it. If the danger is not so great that loss
is otherwise inevitable, where is the right of the master to anticipate or hasten the destruction of any part of the adventure? .Does a master ever rightly make a jettison, cut away
a mast, or run his ship ashore, unless the loss, at the time he
resolves on the measure, is inevitable unless he resorts to it?
Is the master to throw over cargo or mutilate his ship out of
mere apprehension? Does he ever do it, unless all reasonable
hope of otherwise saving the adventure is gone? He is not to
be justified in a fear from slight causes, nor in anticipating that
total destruction to a part which awaits the whole adventure,
unless to all human judgment safety from any other measure
is hopeless. When the ship has been overcome in her struggle with ocean and -tempest, and is in danger of foundering,
and when lightening her is the only measure to avert this
otherwise certain peril, then first arises the right to throw over
cargo. It is a right only born at the last degree of distress in
his ship. If it can be shown that the vessel was not in such
danger that she would in all human iudgment sink unless relieved, the jettison would be unwa- ated. So, too, in any
case of voluntary stranding, if it could be shown that, by any

284

SUPREME

COURT.

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

means -in the master's power, by holding on to anchors, by
making or pressing sail, he could avoid the danger, he is not
warranted in beaching his ship. And so in fact is the practice
of mariners. None of the cases of voluntary stranding which
have occurred have been without inevitable danger.
The peril, therefore, being in its nature inevitable, so far from
being a reason to prevent a contribution, is, on the contrary,
essential to it. And the argnment for the cargo here goes to
the extent, that, when a slighter danger exists, the contribution
shall be made, but not when a greater. And in this uncertainty, what becomes of the rule as a rule of law? Is it to be
left to a jury to say, in this case the danger was a little lelss,
that?case the danger
and there shall be a contribution; andbeinnone
left no hope, and therefore there shall
The greater the danger, and the more inevitable, by any
other means than by measures to anticipate its action, the
more justifiable is the act of courage thus anticipating it, and
the more rightful the demand of contribution.
It will appear, by reference to the cases of the Woodrop
Sims, 4 Binney, 513; the Apollo, 2 Serg. & Raawle, 229;
the Julia, 2 Serg. & Rawle, 237, n.; 3 Wash. C. C. R. 298;
the Gem, 22 Pick. 197; and the Hope, 13 Peters, 331, that in
every case the loss was, to all human appearance, inevitable; and this is au which the strongest language of any witness can ever be rightly understood to mean.
As to this character of the peril, the acknowledged instances
of general average contribution and the maritime authors alike
unite. Thus, to save a ship from foundering, the jettison is
contributed for; the loss was inevitable. To avoid capture,
after flight or resistance has become desperate, a stranding is
warranted and contributed for; the loss was inevitable. The
ship is on her beam-ends and filling with water; her masts
are cut away and contributed for; her loss was inevitable.
The language of Emerigon (Vol. I.p. 408) is very appositb
to the case at bar:-" It sometimes happens that, to escape an
enemy, or to avoid absolute wreck, the ship is stranded in the
place which seems the least dangerous; the damage sustained
on such occasion is general average, because it had for its
object the co'mmon safety." And he adds: "The Acts of
the Apostles (xxvii. 39) furnish a memorable example of a
voluntary stranding." Showing, very clearly, his understanding That the loss to be averted was otherwise an inevitable
loss. So, also, the ransom from pirates is to be contributed for;
the loss is inevitable, and indeed actual.
Boulay Paty presents the same view: -" If,to avoid a total
loss, by wreck or capture, the captain adopts the measure of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

285

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

stranding his ship, the expenses to get her afloat are general
average." (4 Boulay Paty, Droit. MkIarit. 454.)' Again: "So
that to constitute general average there must be a forced will
(ilfaut qu'il y ait volontJ forcg); that the act of man should
concur with the accident (cas fortvit) ......
.There must, in
the next place, be the avoiding of an imminent peril (periculuwt inaii atis evitandi causo). A panic fear would not excuse
the captain; the danger must be real." Ibid. 257, 258.
It would seem, that, in the face of these considerations, the
inevitable character of the danger should not take away the
right to the contribution.
There is, however, another view of this subject worthy of
consideration. What is the peril to be avoided? Take, for an
instance, the case at bar. It was a total destruction of ship,
cargo, and crew. Was this particular peril, the danger of this
particular loss, inevitable? The result shows that it was not;
for the ship, cargo, and crew did not thus perish. This fatal
aspect of peril was capable of being averted, for it was in fact
averted.
W hat was the new peril into which the disaster was shaped?
It was a stranding on an easy beach, a saving of all the cargo
undamaged, and the preservation of every life on board. Why,
then, should the saved cargo insist that the peril was inevitable,
-the peril from which, in fact, it has been delivered? What
caused the substitution of the saving in place of thd destroying peril? The coolness and deliberate courage of the officer
in charge, advancing to attack the danger on the field chosen
by himself, instead of awaiting its attack where it would have
been irresistible.
It is proper to notice a result of this character of general
average peril. Without the relief, the whole adventure must
be looked upon as lost. It would be lost in case of the danger
of foundering, of capture, of actual possession by pirates. All
being thus viewed as lost, all is equally valueless; that is,
the value of all the parts of the adventure is to be viewed
as a value6 subject to the degree of danger, and diminished
as that degree is great. And when a contribution is refused
because the thing, whose loss is anticipated by the master's
act, is already in danger of destruction, it is to be remembered
that the things saved were in equal danger; that the contribution is not to be unfavorably viewed because of the value, in
a place of safety, of what is not lost. ThE time of view for
justice to take iswhen all was equally in danger. It therefore calls for a liberal construction in favor of the contribution.
In this manner salvage awards are liberal, in proportion as the
property saved was, previously to the saving, reduced in value

286

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al

by the peril from which it was relieved. The contribution is
said to be "the common law and justice of partnership." (1
Holt's N. P. Rep. 192, note.) It is a partnership of peril
merely, a partnership of danger, from which every thing which
escapes, by any anticipation of the danger, is a part of a stock
'treated as a common stock, and to be ratably divided.
What, then, is the character of the master's act which is
to be deemed voluntary?
The expression of Boulay Paty above quoted is peculiarly
accurate to describe it; it is "volonti force," a forced choice;
that or none, to use a homely phrase. Again, he says, "the
will of man must concur with the disaster," not be alone the
cause, but only a cotiperating cause. The idea that any of the
sacrifices at sea, in times of peril, are voluntary in any ordinary sense of the word is quite erroneous. It is an act of the
will, under the sternest pressure cf necessity; the alternatives
are, total loss if nothing is done, a lighter loss if the danger
is hastened. This is all the choice. It is the only choice presented. It is to aid in making this determination that consultatioit is to be had. It is in this that the degree of peril becomes.important to be considered. The greatness of the danger
makes the task of adopting some measure of escape more
imperative; to relieve the whole adventure from the danger
of vacillating resolves, arising from hesitation to sacrifice ship
to another, the
of cargo, in preference
or parts
or cargo,
policy
of the
law interposes~the
indemnity one
of a general contried on policy
and equity;
on policy,
because
is foundaverage men
who
law oftherare
"The
C. J., says:
Tilghman,
bution.
would risk the loss of life and fortune, rather than sacrifice
their property without compensation. On equity, because
nothing
can be more reasonable
thatwJhich
the property saved
should contribute
a good than
e loss
was the cause
of The
safety."
Gray v.
& Rawle,
255.
voluntary
act,Waln,
then, 2is Serg.
not to
determine
whether any
thing shall be destroyed. Destruction is upon them already;
all will be destroyed, as the circumstances stand, before the
master
avertvolition
perilt. to
Something
mustis,beShall
destroyed
at all
events. acts
Thetoonly
be exercised
the destruction be anticipated as to part, to procure the rescue of the rest ?
andndr
a how shall i be done? It is a mere election of
time and selection of sbject. There is no other volition, no
other voluntary act. Refining criticism~ may waste itself in
calling
a compulsory
a complsory
voyage
shore, a this
selecting
of a saferchoice,
exposure,
in denying
it totobethea
sacrifice. It is, nevertheless, nfl the voluntary act which remains to the master tr perform. On its being performed with

DECEMBER TER-M,

1850.

287

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

coolness, courage, and discretion, the whole property and the
lives of all depend; that this small amount of volition may bf
exercised freely and without hesitation, the policy of the law
tenders to the officer the indemnity of a-general contribution.
It puts him at ease as to the result of his decision. This
selection of time and place of stranding was made in this case
at bar; the time was anticipated, the place varied. The two
important items of choice were acted on, and the result was
a saving of the life of every one, the saving of the cargo almost entirely, and greatly lessening the injury to the ship,
The criticism made on this part of the argument by the
plaintiffs in error is more striking than just. They say, that it is
a paradox to call placing the ship in a safer place of stranding
a sacrifice. The putting of a cargo into lighters fo relieve a
stranded ship does the *ame; but it is a case of 'average contribution. And moreover, the sacrifice, so called by a figure
of speech, in general average, is merely the anticipation of the
time of probable injury, and the selection of the subject. Suppose the loss to which the ship was exposed had not been inevitable, so that, upon the principles of the plaintiff's argument,
it was a case of contribution; would it be less so in any degree, if the act done for general benefit at the same time rendered the invited and anticipated damage more inconsiderable?
Nor is the remark just, that there "'always will be a general
contribution, unless the master blindly forbears all action."
There will never be a contribution unless the master does fake
action to select time and place of avoiding a general impending destruction; but whenever he does, there ought to be contribution upon the principles of the law, however nufiherous be
the instances. It is not always that the selection of time and
place can be made; but whenever it can, it is policy that it
should be, and that under a judgment freed from hesitancy
by the indemnity of a contribution. The apparent force of
this consideration of the plahitiffs is overbalanced by that of
there never being any contribution at all, if the principle be
adopted that, if the loss be otherwise inevitable, there can be
no contribution. That tears out the whole of this branch of
the law.
It is therefore respectfully submitted, that a deliberate selection of the time and place of stranding was a voluntary act
within the rule of law.
That the act of the master only diminished the danger to
the ship has already been considered. The whole apparent
force of this argument grows out of the figurative use of the
term sacrifice. Its meaning, in this branch of the law, we submit, has reference only to doing an act intentionnly damaging;

289

SUPREME

COURT.

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

it has no reference to the danger that was impending being
greater than is willingly, and at an earlier period, incurred.
Again, to the argument that the ship, the subject benefited,
was the very subject calling for compensation on the pretence
that it was sacrificed, we answer, that it is no objection to a
contribution that the ship is benefited as well as cargo. The
contribution rests on the master's judgment in anticipating the
effect of the danger by an earlier exposure to it.
It is said, too, that, in a case like the present, the master no
more makes a sacrifice than when, in navigating his vessel on
the seat he chooses a safe channel rather than a hazardous one;
the answer is, that the case of general average is not in the
course of common navigation, but arises on conduct in circumstances of great danger, fear, and trial, calling for other considerations than the ordinary safe navigation; and that, in the
case supposed of choosing a safer channel, no act of present
and anticipated injury is incurred. Nothing but the strongest
fancy can make an analogy between the cases.
A distinction is attempted between acts of jettison, cutting
away parts, &c., on the ground that a separation of parts of a
ship or cargo differs from an injury to the ship going as a whole
community into a peril. This is not very easily to be understood; but if it means that there is any lifference between a
jettison and a volufitary stranding damaging the whole ship,
on this ground.alone, that an injury to a part differs from an
injury to the whole, such difference is entirely denied, and is
not supported by any authority nor acknowledged principle.
In case of a voluptary stranding, it is not an accidental result
that the ship suffers more than the cargo; but it is the very
intent of the stranding.
One other view will be presented, on the principle of the
judgment below. It has been suggested in a single case, that
where the loss was inevitable, the thing sacrificed must be
deemed of no value, and so there should be no contribution.
The answer would be, the things saved at the time of the master's decision were equally of no value when the loss was inevitable. And when, having been xedeemed from their peril by
intentionally injuring that which was in the same and no more
peril, an equal value should be r.estored to that. Under the peril
impending, all were of no value; after the peril is removed, all
stand of full value. The case referred to is Crockett v. Dodge,
3 Fairfield, 190. The schooner Rambler was taking in a
cargo of lime at the wharf; it took fire; the hatches were
closed, and thereby a part of the lime was saved; afterwards,
the vessel was scuttled with a remnant of the lime on board,
-which was thus lost. For the loss of this remnant, a claim for

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et aL

general contribution was made against the ship. The judge,
bifore whom the trial was had, held that the lime in its endangered and damaged condition was of no value, and so no contribution should be recovered. The court above placed it more
on the impossibility of its being saved. But, although decided
in 1835, no reference was made to any of the cases on this question but 9 Johnson, and the very case is put by the court, in
13 Peters, 340, as one of general average.
Besides, it is not true that property greatly endangered is to
be deemed valueless. If, in the apparently instant wreck, ih
which every thing is likely to be lost, a mariner should embezzle
a box of jewels, would he be treated as appropriating a thing
of no value? If the convict doomed to execution to-morrow on
the gallows be stabbed to-night, will it cease to be murder,
because he has but a short remnant of a doomed life ?
Referring to the defendant's printed brief, as to the decision
under review being supported by principle, this part of the
argument will be closed by two quotations. Ch.J. Tilghman
says, in his judgment in Sims v. Gurney, 4 Binney, 524:" Nothing can be more equitable than that all should contribute
towards the reparation of a loss which has been the cause of
their safety; and nothing more politic, because it encourages
the owner to throw away his property without hesitation in
time of need." Judge Sewall, in Whitteridge v. Norris, 6 Mass.
131: "General average is a contract by which distinct
properties of several persons become exposed to a common peril,
and a relief from that peril at the expense of one or more of the
concerned, who are, therefore, entitled to contribution from the
rest, provided the benefit was intended as well as obtained by
the destruction, or at the peculiar hazard, of the property lost."
But is this question an open question in this court? The
elaborate argument for the plaintiffs in error forbade passing by
a discussion of the principle; but it seems impossible now to
treat this case as not covered by authority.
In the Columbian Insurance Co. v. Ashby and Stribling, 13
Peters, 331, the brig Hope, sailing on a voyage to the West
Indies from Baltimore, was overtaken by a gale in the Chesapeake; she anchored, drifted from her moorings by force
of the gale, broke her windlass, parted her chain cables, and
about midnight brought up near Crany Island; "she thumped
or struck on the shoals on a bank, and her head, swinging
around to the westward, br6ught her broadside to the wind
and heavy sea; the captain, in this situation, finding no possible means of saving the vessel or cargo, and preserving the*
crew, slipped his cables and ran her ashore for the safety of the
crew and preservation of the vessel and cargo"; it was found
VOL. X.

25

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

impracticable to get her off. All this was found by special verdict. The cause was heard in this court in January, 1839;
and after an elaborate argument and very learned opinion, this
stranding was adjudged to be a ground of general average contribution.
The above description of the imminency of the peril and
means of relief is copied literally from the special verdict. The
jury found no other peril, and no other stranding. They applied not to the peril the term inevitable, nor to the stranding
the word voluntary. But what could be more inevitable than
the loss here described ? The special verdict says, "the captain,
finding no possible means of saving the vessel or cargo and
preserving the crew," &c.; if this be not the description of a
peril of inevitable loss, words cannot describe it. It is suggested in the plaintiff' argument, that she slipped her cables,
and therefore must have been still held by her anchors, and
might have survived the storm. But the jury had found "that
there was no possible means of saving the vessel," &c.; they
therefore -found that the anchors and cables were not such
means; and by reference to the previous parts of the special
verdict, it appears that the anchors and cables, while all sound,
had not held the ship; that she had ripped up the windlass, had
parted the chain eble, had struck on a shoal, and lay broadside
to the wind and heavy sea. It cannot be contended that the
case of the brig Hope was not utterly hopeless. The act of the
master was a voluntary stranding, only because he selected an
easier bed for the ship to die on.
These facts found in the special verdict amounted, in the
opinion of the court, to ".a voluntary running on shore of the
brig Hope; that there was no other possible means of preserving the crew, the ship, and the cargo; that the running ashore
was for this express object." Facts thus found, and a special
verdict thus expounded, admit of no explanation, for they are
already toQ plain. They admit of no distinction from any ease
of inevitable loss and voluntary stranding, where the ship must
go ashore, and the captain merely selects the spot and varies
the time. Both by the facts as found by the jury, and- the exposition of them by the court, the question now argued was
there presented. Why is it not to be deemed decided?
It is said that the points principally argued were, whether the
doctrine salva nave applied to the mere saving of die ship, or to
the successful result of the stranding. But that being decided
for the ship, the question of inevitable danger still lay between
the ship and her claim to contribution; nay, it was preliminary
to it. Unless a contribution might be due for a voluntary
stranding to avoid inevitable loss, the question of salon nave did

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

not arise. There wap, according to the present plaintiffs' argument, no ship to be saved; her ruin was inevitable, and so she
was really lost before the stranding.
Will it be said that the court did not argue the point?
The counsel for the cargo there did, indeed, take the point,
in opposition to the counselfor the cargo here, that there must
be shown an inevitable necessity for the stranding. The counsel for the ship there distinctly presented the fact, that the
danger wa inevitable. " There was no hope if he remained at
anchor; certainly none, if he attempted to breast the fury of the
storm." The judge who delivered the opinion quotes from
Ernerigon the passage above translated, as to running ashore
in the less dangerous place; he examines the opinions in the
cases, Caze v. Reilly, 3TWash. C. C. R. 298; Sims v. Gurney, 4
Binney, 513; and Gray v. Waln, 2 Serg. & Rawle, 229, and
says, " We have examined the reasoning in these opinions, and
are bound to say, it has our unqualified assent."
It is to be observed, in addition, that Judge Story puts the
very case which occurred in Maine (3 Fairfield4190), and considers it a general average. The case of WTalker v. United States
Ins. Co., 11 Serg. & Rawle, 69, was also cited by the counsel;
the very case which Judge Kennedy, in 4 Wharton, deems to
overrule Sims v. Gurney, in 4 Binney. Judge Story also remarks
upon the opinions of Stevens'; and with all these cases before
the court, they adjudged this a case of voluntary stranding to
avoid inevitable loss, and one e.alling for general average contribution. If this does not, as a decision, cover a case upon
identically the same facts, certainly upon facts presenting the
very same question, what decision can do it?
It adds to the weight of this decision, that in the case of Sims
v. Garney this very point was made, argued fully by counsel,
and distinctly passed on by the court. Tilghman, C. J. says (p.
256), "It is said that the ship must have gone ashore somewhere, and it made no difference where that shore was. It is
not necessary that the ship should be exposed to greater danger than she otherwise would have been, to.make a case'of
general average." With this before them, the point then so
clearly raised, so fully argued, so expressly decided, and the
reasoning of Sims v. Gurney so fully adopted, there was no
call for discussing it again in the opinion pronounced in the
case of the Hope (13 Peters).
The decision of this court in the case of the Hope has ever
since been considered as settling the law on this point. It was
decided in 1839. In the spring of the same year, the very same
point of a voluntary stranding to avoid an inevitable loss arose
in Massachusetts, in the case of th6 Gem, precisely like that

292

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al

of the Hope, and this very point was made by Curtis, counsel;
upon which Shaw, Ch. J. laid down, "that if the cable was
voluntarily cut, and the vessel run on shore as the best expedient for saving life and property, although the vessel was in
imminent peril, and although there was every probability that
she would sink at her an6h6rs, or part her cables and drive
ashore if not cut, still the loss is to be considered as coming
within the principle of general average," and cites the case in
13 Peters. (Reynolds v. Ocean Ins. Co., 22 Pick. 197.)
Again, in, 1845, in the case of the ship George, the District
Court of New York considered this point covered by the decision in 13 Peters (8 Law Reporter, 361), and in the case now
under review, the judges of the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York considered the decision in 13 Peters
applicable and decisive. And although the decision appealed
from is to be held open for consideration and suspended in
effect, yet in a question, of commercial law, to be carried out
in the important, although rapid, operations of merchants, adjusters of losses, &c., the manner in which a decision is received by persons competent to understand it, and has been
acted on for ten years, well deserves consideration as showing
its plain meaning and extent. This decision has entered
largely into the business of the country as thus understood, and
should not, even if its original correctness had been dubious,
be either disturbed or made useless by nice and refined distinctions. So far as the argument of the plaintiffs on authority is understood, it rests on the two cases 11 Serg. &
Rawle, and 4 Wharton, cited on their points. The former was
directly before this court, cited by Ir. Semmes arguendo in the
case of the Hope, p. 337, and, if opposed to that decision, was
silently rejected by this court. This court adopted the oppo.
site conclusions given in the case of the Woodrop Sims, 4
Binney. The latter case, Meech v. Robinson, 4 Wharton, 360,
decided in 1839, is remarkable for its disregard of the decision in
4 Binney, and its opposition to 13 Peters (the Hope), decided
in the previous part of the same year, and not noticed by the
judge. However the courts of Pennsylvania may make free
with their own decisions, they cannot be permitted to unsettle
the law decided in this court,and recognized and adopted in
this extensively commercial country. The decision in 4 Binney was after arguments the most creditable to the abilities
and research of the eminent counsel engaged, and upon a discussion of the whole subject by Ch. 3. Tilghman of unsurpassed
learning and ability. It was distinctly approved and adopted
by this court, and, with the judgment of this cburt, has stood
too long and is too firm to be now shaken.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

293

Barnard et al. v. Adamc et al.

The second point of the plaintiffs in error, being in opposition to the third point of the defendants, relates to the values
of the parts of the cargo on which contribution is to be assessed; and this depends upon the place where the contribution is to be made. It is not necessary to examine or criticize the cases cited upon this point by the plaintiffs in error.
It is supposed. that the case rests on general principles, of a
practical character, well settled. It will.not and cannot be denied, that, by the reception of cargo on shipboard, the adventure was begun, nor that it was to terminate in New York.
The shippers of the nutria skins at Buenos Ayres made no
claims to them there after the disaster, but allowed their transshipment to New York, by the master of the stranded ship,
without any new contract of .affreightment. Now, where was
the master, whose duty it was to collect the general contribution, entitled to demand the payment, and where the owner of
the goods bound to pay it? The ship lost had been destined
to New York with this cargo, there to be sold. Had the
master a right to exact payment of the average in the place
of shipment? Was the shipper, who had already advanced
the price of purchasing the goods, bound to advance in addition the general average? He looks to the sales of the goods,
or th3 consignee, in New York, to pay their freight and expenses. He is not even to,be presumed the owner, but may
as probably be a shipping agent merelyrwho has fully executed
all his authority by making the shipment. He has no funds
for the purpose of these charges. He does not demand back
the goods, but lets them go forward to their original destination on the old freight contract; they arrive in safety at New
York. There is the place oflestination, reached by the cargo.
There is the proper place, and only proper place, of valuing
the vessel, an American registered ship. The freight being
lost, is a freight to the home port of destination. Free, then,
from all technical objections, the -lace of destination was the
place proper for payment of the charge.
This becordes still more apparent if the rule of valuation for
cargo lost .be considered; and the rule of valuing cargo lost
and cargo saved is always the same. By a general average
sacrifice the owner is not me"y indemnified in the cost of his
goods. The freight on lost goods is paid in contribution, and
is assessed in contribution. The goods are paid for at their
value at the place of destination. The merchant recovers, not
only first cost, but profits. The merchant and ship-owner,
therefore, are both entitled to compensation as of the place of
destination. It follows, that they must be assessed on the
values at that place. (See Abbott on Shipping, 1 Perkins's ed.,
25*

294

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard Et al. v. Adams et al.

607, [504,] ch. x. pl. 4, s. 13, 14.) The lading port spoken
of in Abbott is to be understood as the home lading port, and
not the lading port abroad.
The adjustment in the case of the George (8 Law Rep.,
361) will be foiund to be -a case where the value of the cargo
was agreed; it was not a valuation at the home or foreign
ports of the voyage, but at the port of distress; and as a large
part of the cargo was sold there. and the proceeds of the wreck
sold were received there, that rule was, by a sort of forced concession, adopted.
As to the jerked beef, although not injured in the stranding
itself, yet it was in the transportation for reshipment. This
was a direct consequence of the stranding, resulting from the
necessity, thereby occasioned, of transshipment by boats. Tile
beef was bound for New York, and liable to pay on its increased value there, if it arrived safely. Consequently, if the
value was diminished on arrival at New York, the same rule
operated to diminish the value for .assessment to the contribution.
The whole argument on this point, by the plaintiffs in error,
procepds on the supposition of the voyage being wholly broken
up at Buenos Ayres. But in fact this was not so. None of
the shippers claimed, or appeared willing t6 claim, or receive
back, their goods. They were immediately and continuously
forwarded in another vessel, then at Buenos Ayres, with the
master of the Brutus as master. There was, therefore, an
agreed continuance of the adventure until all the. property
reached the place of its destination. Theiship could not have
been properly valued at Buenos Ayres' being an America] ship,
not sent there for sale, but to be employed and returned to
New York, her home port. There her .only correct value, for
assessment, could be ascertained. The place where the average shall be stated is always dependent, more or less, on accidental circumstances, affecting, not the technical termination
of the voyage, but the actual and practicable closing up of the
adventure. It admits of no very certain rule of law. And it
is humbly submitted, that in this point there was no error in
the court below.
The third point of the plaintiffs respects the precise time at
wfich the wa'es and provisions of the ship's company cease
to be a genera charge. It does not raise any question that
the wages and provisions are not a geeefal charge for some
time alter the stranding. They are in the nature of salvage
charges, and therefore general. The point of time at which
the plaintiffs in error insist they shall cease, is that of its being
certain that the ship could not be got off, and of her sale being

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

295

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

determined. It is obvious that this may have been done long
before the cargo was discharged, long before it was transshipped
by the boats and crew of the ship. But these wages and provisions ought to be paid by the adventure, as long as the services of the crew, as mariners, laborers, or quasi-salvors, were
bestowed upon the adventure. Immediately on the stranding,
it could be determined that she could not be again floated;
and the determination, of course, would be to sell the wreck.
But until the entire saving of the cargo and of what could be
saved from the ship, the services of the crew were essential to
both.
There is no ground in law to say that the duties of the
mariners ceased when the stranding became fatal They still
owed duties as mariners both to ship and cargo, and had a lien
on the ship for wages, or salvage as a substitute for wages,
until the cargo was fully and properly disposed of from the
wreck. Being properly employed upon the ship and cargo,
even if it were true, as it is not, that their obligation to the
hip had ceased, still their services to vessel and cargo entitled
them to wages and to their support as a general charge.
The fourth point respects the comamissions for collecting the
average.
The plaintiffs' argument rests on this not being a service
ever allowed to a clainmant or creditor, and on the allegation
that it is not a service to the common adventure. The argument is the more plausible, because, in this instance, the shipowners who collect the contribution are the parties to whom
it is all payable. But this is not generally so, there being
usually contributions to be paid out as well as received; and
if among recipients the ship-owners were only one among a
number, there would be no discrimination or deduction on that
amount; and the rule must be a general one, arplicable generally to the office of being the accounting party in the general
average.
Taking this to be the true relation of the ship-owner, he is
evidently an official agent and trustee, involved by the disaster
causing the average in new and responsible duties, often very
difficult and embarrassing.
They are duties not embraced in his obligation as a mere
carrier. They are duties arising out of unforeseen disaster.
They are duties which directly result from the disaster, as
much so as the damage to cargo by water getting in when a
jettison is made. On the general principles of law, therefore,
the trouble of this compulsory agency and the compensation
for it arise from the disaster, irm part ot it, and ought to accompany it in the contribution. In the present case, the ser-

296

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

vices were those of commission merchants, transacting the business for the owners. This, while it may not vary the principle, relieves its present application from the ostensible objection that the owners are themselves receiving a commission on
collecting their own claim.
MTtr. Webster, in conclusion, for the plaintiffs in error.
In considering the nathre of "a general average peril in the
conceded instances of it," the counsel for the defendants in
error, for the purpose of identifying this case with those conceded cases, maintains the proposition that a master is never
justified in making a jettison or other sacrifice, "unless the
loss, at the time he resolves on the measure, is inevitable unless he resorts to it."
This proposition cannot be maintained either by reasoning
or on authority. When the community of interest of which
the master has charge is placed in circumstances of peril, it is
not necessary that loss should be inevitable, in order to justify
his deliberately sacrificing one interest to insure the safety of
the rest; or putting one interest to greater risk in order that
the risk of the remaining interests may be diminished. It is
enough that therisk be real, but it may be mote or less imminent. A slight risk would justify a trifling sacrifice. A more
imminent risk a greater sacrifice. The terms risk, hazard, peril,
and, indeed, the whole class of words used in describing general average cases, always include both the idea of danger and
the possibility of escape. The only questions in judging of
the propriety of the course of a master., in apuy given case of
voluntary sacrifice, are, Was the peril real? and was his act
the result of deliberate judgment, and not the consequence of
mere panic? This answers the assertion of the defendants'
counsel, that our principle "tears out the whole law of general average." So far is it from this, that it accompanies every
voluntary sacrifibe made in time of peril for the common benefit,
and awards
"The
counsel contribution.
for the defendants in error, throughout his
points; brief, and argument, seeks to confound and confuse
words and phrases which have distinct and well understood
differences of meaning. Thus, on one page only of his printed
argument, he uses the phrases "certain peril," "inevitable
danger," "peril inevitable," and "loss inevitable," as though
these were equivalent and convertible terms. A peril may be
inevitable, and yet no loss accrue; but to say that loss is inevitable, and yet may not happen, is to do violence to language. We should not notice this, if it were an inadvertent
misapplication of a term; but there is 'an evident design to

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

297

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

dwarf the meaning of the term inevitable. Thus, on the same
page, it is said, "The greater the danger and the more inevitable," as though inevitability admitted of degrees, and as if the
word inevitable were a merely equivalent term to the word
peril. Indeed, in the points, it is insisted that the term "inevitable loss" ought to be construed to mean merely "the highest
degree of conjecture of loss "; in short, that the term "inevitable
loss" is to be tortured from its meaning, and pronounced by this
court to mean merely imminent risk; and it is only by thus
conjuring with words that the judgment in this case can be
sustained.
To constitute a case for general average contribution, two
things must concur 1st. The existence Df danger not inevitable, but capable of
being avoided by the means resorted to.
2d. The evidence of a "deliberate purpose to sacrifice the
thing claiming contribution at all events ; -or, at the very least,
to put it into a situation in which the danger of eventual destruction would be increased." Gibson, J., in Walker v. United
States Ins. Co., 11 Serg. & Rawle, 61.
In this case both these elements were wanting.
This is substantially conceded by the defendants. They
say,- " The voluntary act, then, is not to determine whether
any thing shall be destroyed. Destruction is upon them already; all will be destroyed (by stranding) as the circumstances stand." "Refining criticism may waste itself in calling
this a compulsory choice, a compulsory voyage to the shore, a
selecting a safer exposure, -In denying it to bea sacrifice. It
is nevertheless all the voluntary act which remains to the master
to perform." So much for the certainty of loss, according to
the defendants' own showing. As to the fact that no sacrifice
was made, no increased risk of loss to the ship run, they are
equally explicit. The result of the mate's act was, it is conceded, the "greatly lessening the injury to the ship."
The defendants' counsel dwells on the seeming equity of the
cargo saved by the act of the mate contributing to the loss of
the ship. The answer to that is twofold.
1st. The ship was not lost, sacrificed, or injured by the act
of the mute, but saved by that act, so far as it was saved at all.
That this act was less beneficial to the owners of the ship than
to the owners of the cargo, was a mere accident. Just such a
case might happen near New York, and the ship be got off the
beach with little injury; while a valuable cargo, consisting of
teas or other articles readily destructible by sea-water, might
have been destroyed. The act of the mate was one done in
the exercise of ordinary care and diligence, for the b~nefit of

298

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

each and every thing and being under his care. Each and
every thing and being- under his charge was benefited, more
or less. The degree of benefit varied, but not as the result of
any design or attempt to sacrifice one thing to save another,
but as a mere fortuitous, unintentional result.
2d. The several persons engaged' in a sea risk are not mutual
insurers; each runs the risk of his own adventure. A ship is
struck by a squall, and the masts carried away ; a wave carries
the boats overboard, or breaks in the bulwarks; the loss must
be borne by the ship-owner. So in repulsing ai assault by an
enemy, "neither the damage to the ship, nor the ammunition
expended, nor the expense of healing the mariners wounded in
an action against an assailing enemy, is a subject of average
contribution." (Perkins's Abbott on Shipping, 501.) A heavy
sea sweeps away deck freight, or finds its way into the hold
and injures the cargo. Then the owner bears the loss. A
wreck occurs, one man's property is saved slightly damaged,
another's greatly damaged, the value of another's is entirely destroyed., Each man must bear his own loss. Out of this very
equality and independence of the several owners arises the
doctrine of general* average. No man has the right to ask, in
a case-of common danger, that another's property shall be singled out and sacrificed, or put in greater jeopardy, for his benefit; and so the law gives to the owner of property thus selected
for sacrifice a right of contribution against those whose property, with no greater right to protection than his, has been
saved or less imperilled at his expense or risk; but it is this
selection, this dedication of the thing to sacrifice or speci.0
hazard, which is the. very foundation of the right to general
average.

The cases cited by the counsel for the defendants are, when
carefully examined, confirmations of this view.
The reasoning of Ch. J. Tilghman, quoted in the defendants' argument, is in exact accordance with our views of the
law. The equity on which the right to coritribufion in general
average is founded is the reasonableness "that the property
saved should contribute to make good the loss which was the
cause of safety." So the language of Judge Sewall: -" General ayerage is a contract by which distinct properties of several
persons become exposed to a common peril, and a relief from
that peril at the expense of one or more of the concerned, who
are therefore entitled to contribution from the rest: provided,
the benefit was intended, as well as obtained, by the destruction or at the peculiar hazard of the property lost."
The judgment of the court below being unsupported' by principle, the case of the Hope, in 13 Peters, is urged upon the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

299

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

court, with desperate pertinacity, as decisive of this case; bat
we have shown, in our opening argument, that that was a case
in which the vessel was still held by her anchors, and in which,
by the deliberate act of the master, the vessel was deprived of
all the means that then held her; a case in which the court
treats the voluntary stranding as expressly found by the special
verdict, as indeed it was. The language of Mr. Justice Story
is, "The special verdict finds that there was a voluntary running
on shore of the brig Hope."
He at once pr6ceeds to discuss the question which he deemed
open for discussion, and decides that, in case of voluntary
stranding, the salva nave is not necessary to constitute a claim
for contribution. He neither discusses nor decides what facts
constitute a case of voluntary stranding; and it cannot be supposed that that learned and most painstaking jurist, and this
learned court, would decide so important and delicate a question by mere silence, and. that against such a weight of reasorning and against the whole current of authority. We say by
mere silence, for, notwithstanding what is said, an inspection
of the case will show that the cases cited by the court are cited
in relation to the necessity of the salva nave to entitle the party
to contribution, and not in relation to the question of what constitutes voluntary stranding. It is clear that the case is still an
open question inthis court, and we emphatically dissent from,
and deny the assertion of, the counsel for the defendant, that
"the decision of this court in the case of the Hope has ever
since been considered as settling the law on this point." On
the contrary, it is; doubtless, well known to the learned judge
who tried this cause, that the bar of New York do not consider
the main point in this case as settled by the case of the Hope,
and that they do consider this as the very case in which that
question is to be settled, and that for the first time.
Driven by the difficulties of the case to avail themselves of
every aspect of the case which even has a remote plausibility,
the defendants urge that an anticipation of the time of destruction is a ground for considering the stranding voluntary; but
there is no evidence that the time of stranding was hastened
by the mate ; but if it were, that surely cannot alter the character of the act done. Surely a moment sooner or later cannot determine such important interests. De nzzimis non curat
lex.
We rest the other points in this case on the argumcnts already presented.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs below, Joseph Adams and others, brought this

3O"

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

action against Charles Barnard and others, in the Circuit Court
of New York, to recover contribution in general average for
the loss of their vessel called the Brutus, on board of which
certain goods were shipped, and consigned to the plaintiffs in
error, and delivered to them on their promise to pay, provided
contribution were justly due.
On the trial, the Circuit Court gave certain instructions to
the jury, which were tne subjects of exceptions, on the correctness of which this court is-now called upon to decide.
As the facts of the case were not disputed, it will be proper
to state them, in connection with the instructions given by the
court, in order to avoid any mistake or misconception which
might arise in construing the terms of mere abstract propositions without relation to the facts on which they were based.
On the 8th of October, 1843, the ship Brutus was lying at
anchor, at the usual place of mooring vessels in the outer roads
at Buenos Ayres, about seven miles from the shore. The width
of the river at that place, between Buenos Ayres and Colonia
on the opposite shore, is about fifteen miles. The Brutus had
taken hr cargo on board for New York, consisting of nutria
skins, dry hides, horns, and jerked beef. The master was on
shore, and she was in charge of the first mate, with a crew
consisting of twelve persons in all. On the 7th, a gale
had commenced, which on the 8th had become dangerous.
About four o'clock next morning the ship began to drag her
anchors, and the small bower anchor was let go. About nine
o'clock in the evening, the gale increasing, the best bower an
chor parted with a loud report. About ten o'clock, the small
bower parted, and the ship commenced drifting broadside with
the wind and waves. Endeavors were then made to get the
ship before the wind, which failed, on account of the chains
lkeeping her broadside to the sea, which was making a breach
over her fore and aft. The chains were then slipped, and the
vessel got before the wind, ;vo men were put to the wheel,
and one to the lead, and it was determined "to run the ship
ashore for the preservation of the cargo and the lives of the
crew." It was now about eleven o'clock at night when the
ship was got before the wind and under command of the helm.
The shore next to Buenos Ay.es, towards which the ship had
been drifting, had banks and shallows extending out some
three or four miles. If the vessel had been driven on these by
the tempest, she would have been wrecked and lost, together
with the cargo and crew. On the Colonia. side of the river
were sunken rocks several miles from the shore. "For the purpose of saving the cargo and crew any how, and possibly the
ship)" she was steered up the river, inclining a little towards

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

301

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

the Buenos Ayres side, with the intention of running her on
shore at a convenient place. After they had proceeded up the
river about ten miles, the mate discovered from the flashes of
lightning that the vessel was approaching a point called St. Isidro, off which he perceived something black which he supposed
to be rocks, and" being afraid," or "thinking it impossible to get
by" this point without being wrecked and lost, he directed the
course of the vessel to be changed towards the shore, where he
had seen what he supposed to be a house, but which turned
out to be a large tree. About midnight the vessel struck the
beach and the rudder was knocked awz.y. The foresail was
then hauled up, but the staysail was let remain to keep her
head straight, and she continued to work herself up until daylight. The place where she was stranded was a level beach
about two hundred yards above ordinary low-water-mark.
The ship was not wrecked, or broken up, though somewhat
damaged, and the cargo was not injured. The master chartered the bark Serene, and transferred the cargo to her. But it
was found that, with the means to be obtained in that vicinity,
it would have cost more than the ship was worth to get her off
the beach. She was therefore sold. The Serene afterwards
arrived safely at New York, under command of Captain Adams, former master of the Brutus. In transshipping the jerked
beef from the Brutus to the Serene, a portion of it got wet, and
when it arrived at the port of New York it was all found to be
worthless.
On these facts, the court instructed the jury as follows 1. "The evidence on the subject of the stranding consists
in the uncontradicted and unimpeached testimony of a single
Ie was the acting master of the vessel at the time
witnes.
of the loss in question. He states that when the vessel was
without any means of resisting the storm, and her going ashore
upon a rocky and more dangerous part of the shore was, in his
opinion, inevitable, he did intentionally and for the better security of the property and persons engaged in the adventure, give
her a direction to what he supposed to be, and what proved to
be, a part of the shore where she could lie more safely. These
facts, if credited by you, constitute in judgment of law a voluntary sacrifice of the vessel, and for such sacrifice the plaintiffs are entitled to recover in general average."
This instructicn forms the subject of the first exception, and
raises the most important question in the case.
The apparent contradiction in the terms of this instruction
has evidently arisen from -a desire of the court to give the
plaintiffs in error, on the argument here, the benefit of the negation of their own proposition, viz. that if the loss of the vessel
26
VOL. X.

302

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard ct al. v. Adams et al.

by the storm was inevitable, the stranding could not be a voluntary "sacrifice entitling the plaintiffs to contribution." It is
because the form in which this proposition is stated is equivocal and vague, when applied to the case before us, that the
negation of it appears to be -contradictory in its terms. The
court should, therefore, not be understood as saying, that, if the
jury believed the peril which was avoided was " inevitable," or
that if the jury believed that the imminent peril was not avoided, they should find for the plaintiffs. But rather, that if they
believed there xwas an imminent peril of being driven "on a
rocky and dangerous part of the coast," when the v6ssel would
have been inevitably wrecked, with loss of ship, cargo, and
crew, and that this immediate peril was avoided-by voluntarily
stranding the vessel on a less rocky and dangerous part of the
coast, whereby the cargo and crew were saved uninjured, then
they should find for the plaintiffs. Looking at the admitted
facts of this caselin connection with the instruction given, it is
plain that the jury could not have understood the court to
mean any thing else. And we may add, moreover, that, in the
argument here, the learned counsel have not relied upon any
verbal criticism of the instruction, but have encountered fairly
the proposition which we now consider as maintained by the
court below.
It cannot be denied by any one-who will carefully compare
this case with that of The Hope, 13 Peters, 331, unanimously
decided by this court, and the cases of Caze v. Reilly, 3 Wash.
C. C. 298, Sims v. Gurney, 4 Binney, 513, and Gray v. Waln,
2 Serg. & Rawle, 229, which have received the "unqualified
assent" of this court, that, whatever distinctions may be taken
as to the accidents and circumstances of these cases, they do
not materially or substantially differ from the present, so far as
the point now under consideration is concerned; and that we
are now called upon to reconsider and o~errule the doctrine
established by those cases. But however they may appear to
be contrary to certain abstract propositions stated by some textwriters on this subject in England, and a case or two in this
country, the policy and propriety of overruling our own and
the three other decisions which have received our "unanimous
approval," even if we were not now satisfied with their correctness, may well be doubted: There are few cases to be found
in the books which have been more thoroughly, laboriously,
and ably investigated by the most learned counsel and eminent
judges. In questions involving so much doubt and difficulty,
it is of more importance to the mercantile community that the
law be settled, and litigation ended, than how it is settled.
No decision of a question depending on such nice and subtile

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

303

Barnard et aL v. Adams et aL

reasoning will meet the approbation of every mind; and if the
cases we have mentioned have failed of this effect, it may well
be doubted if any reasons which could be given fvr overruling
them would prove more successful.
It is not necessary, in the examination of this case, again to
repeat the history of this doctrine of general average, from the
early date of the " Lex Rhodia de jactu," through the civil or
Roman law, and the various ordinances and maritime codes of
European states and cities, down to the present day. The
learned opinions dhlivered in the cases to which we have alluded leave nothing further to be said on that portion of the
subject. Wre shall therefore content ourselveswith stating the
leading and established principles of law bearing on the point
in question, in order that we may have some precise data with
which to compare the facts of the present case, and test the
value of the arguments with which the instructions of the Circuit Court have been assailed.
The law of general average has its foundation in equity.
The principle, that "what is given for the general benefit of
all shall be made good by the contribution of all," is recommended, not only by its equity, but also by its policy, because
it encourages the owner to throw away his property without
hesitation, in time of need.
In order to constitute a case for general average, three things
must concur :1st. A common danger; a danger in which ship, cargo, and
crew all participate; a danger imminent and apparently "inevitable," except by voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion
of the whole to save the remainder.
2d. There must be a voluntary jettison, jactus, or casting
away, of some portion of the joint concern for the purpose of
avoiding this imminent peril, periculi in ninentis evitandi causa,
or, in other words, a transfer of the peril, from the whole to a
paricular portion of the whole.
3d. This attempt to avoid the imminent common peril must
be successful.
It is evident from these propositions, that the assertion so
much relied on in the argument, namely, "that if the peril be
inevitable there can be no contribution," is a mere truism, as
the hypothesis of the case requires that the common peril,
though imniinenti shall be successfully aV]oided. Those who
urge it must therefore mean something else. And it seems,
when more carefully stated, to be this, "that if the common
peril was of such a nature, that the 'jactus,' or thing cast.
away to save the rest, would have perished anyhow, or
perished ' inevitably,' even if it had not been selected to suffer

304

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

in place of the whole, there can be no contribution." If
this be the meaning of this proposition, and we can discover
no other, it is a denial of the whole doctrine upon which the
claim for general average has its foundation. For the master
of the ship would not be justified in casting a part of the cargo
into the sea, or slipping his anchor, or cutting away his masts,
or stranding his vessel, unless compelled to it by the necessity
of the case, in order to save both ship and cargo or one of them,
from an imminent peril which threatened. their common destruction. The necessity of the case must compel him to
choose between the loss of the whole and part; but, however
metaphysicians may stumble at the assertion, it is this forced
choice which is necessary to justify the master in making a
sacrifice (as it is called) of any part for the.whole. Hence the
answer of every master of a vessel, when examined, will be, " I
considered the destruction of both ship and cargo I inevitable,
unless I had thrown away what I did." " The goods thrown
away would have gone to the bottom anyhow." If the case
does not show that the jettison was "indispensable," in order
to escape the common peril, the master would himself be liable
for the loss consequent therefrom. It is for this reason, that
the ordinances of Marseilles require that the master should
have a consultation with the supercargo and crew as to the absolute necessity of the measure, and as evidence that it was not
done through the vain fears, cowardice, or imprudence of the
master. But the right to contribution is not made to depend
on any real or presumed intention to destroy the thing cast
away, but on the fact that it has been selected to suffer the
peril in place of the whole, that the remainder may be saved,
The anchor lost by voluntarily slipping the cable may be recovered, the goods jettisoned may float to the shore and be
saved, and yet, if the anchor or goods had not been cast away,
they would have been "inevitably" lost, and there would have
been a total loss of both ship and cargo. Take the case of
Caze v. Reilly. A vessel is completely surroanded by the
enemy's cruisers. It is impossible to save both ship and cargo
from capture and a total loss. A part or the whole of the cargo
is thrown overboard, and thus the vessel escapes. This is an
admitted case for contribution. And it is no answer to the
claim of the owners to say, " Your cargo was ' inevitably ' lost;
as it was situated it was worthless, and consequently you sacrificed nothing for the common benefit. Besides, a portion of it
floated on shore and was saved from capture, or was fished
from the bottom without sustaining much injury; the throw-,
ig it overboard was the best thing that could be done for it
under the circumstances, as without that it would have been

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

305

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

' inevitably' lost." But suppose, as in the case referred to, the
ship cannot be saved by casting the cargo info the sea, but the
cargo, which is of far greater value, can be saved by casting the
vessel on the land, or stranding her. Is it any answer to her claim
for contribution to say, that "her loss was I inevitable,' she was
in a better situation on the beach than in the hands of the enemy,
or at the bottom of the sea, or wrecked upon rocks, and therefore there was no such sacrifice as would entitle her to contribution" ? We cannot comprehend why this argument should
have no weight in the first case (which is an admitted case of
contribution in all the books), and yet that it should be held as
a conclusive obstacle to the recovery in the latter. The replication to this objection in the first instance, and the conclusive
one, is, "the vessel and cargo were in a common peril, where
both or all could not be saved; the yessel alone, or the vessel
and part of the cargo, have been saved, by casting the loss upon
the cargo, and this constitutes the very hypothesis on which
the doctrine of general average rests." Why, then, should there
be a difference in principle, where the cargo is damaged or lost
by being cast into the sea, and the ship saved, and the case
where the ship is damaged or lost by a voluntary stranding, or by being cast on the land, -hnd the cargo saved, is
a question which has never yet been satisfactorily answered.
In fact, we do not understand the counsel to contend for the
doctrine of salva vavi, or that the Brutus was not entitled to
contribution because she could not be got afloat at a less cost
than her value. The principle on which the counsel relied is
that enunciated in the opinion of the court in Walker v. United
States Ins. Co., 11 Serg. & Rawle, 61. "9It is not enough," says
the learned judge, "5that there be a deliberate intent to do an
act which may or may not lead to a loss; there must-be a deliberate purpose to sacrifice the thing at all events, or at the
very least to put it in a situation in which the danger of eventual destruction would be increased."
But, as we have already seen, the intention to destroy the
jactus, or thing exposed to loss or damage for the benefit of the
whole, makes no part of the hypothesis upon which the right
of contribution is founded. Indeed, the speciousness of this
assertion seems to have its force from the use of the word
"sacrifice" in its popula' and tropical, instead of its strict or
technical meaning. The offering of sacrifices was founded on
the idea of vicarious suffering. And when it is said of the
jactis,that it is sacrificed for the benefit of the whole, it means
no more than that it is selected to unaergo the peril, in place
of the whole, and for the benefit of the whole. It is made (if
we may use another theological phrase) the "scape-goat" for
26*

306

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

the remainder of the joint property exposed to common destruction. The "jactus"is said to be sacrificed, not because its chance
of escape was separate, but because of its selection to suffer, be
it more or less, instead of the whole, whose chances of safety,
as awhole, had become desperate. The imminent destruction
of the whole has been evaded as a whole, and part saved, by
transferring the whole peril to another part.
If a cargo of cotton, abodt to be captured or sunk, be throwna
overboard in part or in whole, and the ship thus saved, the fact
that the cotton floated to the shore and was saved, and therefore was in a better condition by being cast away than if it
had remained to be captured or sunk, cannot affect its right to
contribution, though it may diminish its amount. The loss or
damage arising from its assuming the peril, that the ship may
escape, may be truly said to be the real "sacrifice," in the popular use of the phrpise. Its value is not measured by its hopes
of safety, for by the hypothesis it had none; but its right to
contribution is founded on its voluntary assumption to run all
the risk, or bear the brunt, that the remainder may be saved
from the common peril. The fact that goods thrown overboard are in no worse, or even in a better, condition as to
chances of safety, than if they had remained on board, or that
the stranded vessel is in a better condition than if she had been
wrecked or sunk, cahnof affect the right to contribution of that
part which was selected to suffer in place of the whole.
Having made these remarks, by way of vindicating the cases
referred to, and noticing the arguments by which they have
been assailed, let us briefly compare the facts of this case with
the principles we have stated, and inquire, first, What was the
common peril? and'second, Was any portion of the joint adventure saved from it by the transfer of the risk or loss to
another ?
The common peril, which in this case was sought to be
avoided, was shipwreck, or the destruction of vessel, cargo, and
crew. The ship lay at anchor; she was assailed by a violent
tempest, her cables broken, her anchors gone, and she was
being driven by the force of the gale broadside upon the shallows 'extending three miles'out from the shore at Buenos Ayres.
In order to save the cargo and crew, it is determined to put on
sail, and run up the river to find a safe place to strand the vessel. They proceed ten miles up the river, when they encounter another peril at Point St. Isidro. To avoid being wrecked
on the rocks, the course of the vessel is immediately changed,
and she is steered directly for the shore, and run upon a sandy
beach, where she is left high and dry by the tide. The cargo
is saved without injury, but the ship is on the land, where she

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

307

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

is comparatively valueless, on. account of the expense which
must be incurred to replace her in her element. By the will
and directions of the master, she has become the victim, and
borne the loss, that the cargo might escape from the common
peril. It is true she has not been wrecked or lost, as she inevitably would, had she been driven on the flats at Buenos
Ayres by the tempest, or been foundered on the rocks off Point
St. Isidro, but she has voluntarily gone on shore, which was
death to her, while it brought safety to the cargo. And we
are of opinion she has the same right to demand contribution that the owners of the cargo would have had against her,
had it been cast into the sea to insure her safety.
There is therefore no error in the instruction given by the
court below on this point.
2. The second and third instructions excepted to have reference to the place at which the goods are to be valued for the
purpose of adjusting the general average.
The reasons given by the learned judge in these instructions
are amply sufficient to show their propriety. The adventure
was continued, notwithstanding the disaster, and terminated
at New York. The goods were not returned to the shippers,
and consequently no contribution could be collected at Buenos
Ayres. The fact that the Brutus was left on the strand, and
the adventure continued till the cargo reached its destination
in another vessel, cannot affect the case. The place where
average shall be stated is always dependent, more or less. on
accidental circumstance affecting not the technical termination of the voyage, but the actual and practical closing of the
adventure. We see nothing in the circumstances to take this
case out of the general rule, that contribution should be assessed
on the value at the home port.
3. The third exception relates to the allowance of the wages
of the crew after the ship was stranded.
But as they were employed as mariners and quasi-salvors
of the cargo, laboring for the joint bdnefit- of the adventure,
we think the exception is not supported. Their services were
essential to the entire saving of the cargo. Their duties did
not cease with the stranding, and they were entitled to wages
while their services were required for that purpose. If the same
services had been rendered by strangers, the expense would
have been properly charged as a result of th6 disaster, in
stating the average. That the same services were rendered
by the crew after the Brutus was stranded, and the voyage as
to them technically broken up, cannot affect the case. Even
if their obligation to the ship had ceased, still their services to
vessel and cargo entitled them to their wages and support as
a general charge.

308

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

4. The two and a half per cent. allowed for collecting the
general average rests upon the usage and custom of merchants
and average brokers. It is a duty arising out of the unforeseen disaster, and resulting directly from it. Usually there are
contributions to be paid out, as well as received, by the shipowner. It is a troublesome duty, not embraced in their obligation as mere carriers. The usage is therefore not unreasonable. The objection, that it is paying the owners for merely
collecting their own debt, is founded on the accidents or peculiar circumstances of this case, and does not affect the general
principle on which this usage is based.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
The decision just pronounced, so far as it goes, must of
course be regarded as settling the law of this court upon the
subject of general average, that decision being in complete accordance with the decision of The Columbian Assurance Co.v.
Ashby and Stribling, 4 Peters, 139; the single case from
this court previously maintaining the doctrine announced by
the court in the case before us. But, however the decision now
made may control the question of general average in the courts
of the United States, as it must do, being the revised and
reaffirmed doctrine of this tribunal, still, with the sincerest respect entertained for the opinions of my brethren, and with
unaffected diffidence as to the conclusions of my own mind, I
have.been unable to yield to this doctrine my assent. I cannot
but regard the doctrine 'here affirmed as opposed to the course
of opinion (the settled and undisputed opinion) in the greatest maritime and commercial nation in the world, and as subversive of the fundamental principle in which the law of average has its origin. That principle, which is traced by all writers and courts to the Rhodian law, is thus propounded by Lord
Tenterden, in his work on Shipping (p. 342): "Namely, the
general contribution that is to be made by all parties towards
a loss sustained by some for the benefit of all." The same
writer (p. 344) says that goods must be thrown overboard; the
mind and agency of man must be employed. If the goods are
forced out of the ship by the violence of the waves, or are destroyed in the ship by lightning or tempest, the merchant alone
must bear the loss. The goods must be thrown overboard for
the sake of all. The same writer remarks (p. 348), that, though
the rule mentions goods only, its principle extends also to the
ship and its furniture.
Mr. Benecke, in his Treatise on Average (p. 96), tells us that
general average has been described in the English courts to

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

309

Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

comprise "all loss which arises in consequence of extraordinary
sacrifices or expenses incurred for the preservation of the ship
and cargo." Aftcr speaking of the enumeration of instances
of general average in some of the Continental nations of Europe, he continues: "Although these laws and the corresponding ones of other states do not make use of the term sacrice,
yet their definitions imply that nothing short of a sacrifice
shall be deemed a general average. All these laws may therefore be said to establish the same general principle; namely,
that a sacrifice made for the preservation of the ship and cargo
is general average." Again he says (p. 97): "As to the term
sacfrice, it is clear and generally admitted, that a damage, to
deserve the appellation of a sacrifice, must have been purposely undergone, and by the agency of man, for the benefit
of the whole, and that every damage not purposely undergone,
although the ship and cargo may be benefited by it, gives no
claim to restitution." Again, it is said with great force and
propriety, that the special sacrifice must be something done
and not suffered; there must be the will and agency of the
party making it. That it should be for the purpose, and with
the intent, causa et mzente, of the preservation of the common
concern. Although the examples of this sacrifice put are usually instances of jactus, the principle embraced applies equally
to the ship as to the cargo; thus Benecke (p. 144) says: " The
case of voluntary stranding being implied in the general rules,
most of the foreign ordinances omit to mention it expressly.
The Prussiaa law is in this respect more explicit than the
others. If the captain, say sections 1820 and 1821, in order to
preserve the cargo, run the vessel intentionally ashore, the
damage thereby occasioned to the ship and cargo, as well as
all incidental charges, belong to the general average. But if it
appear clearly from the circumstances, that the stranding was
resorted to merely for the purpose u. saving the lives or liberty
of the crew, the damage, even if the whole cargo be saved, is
held to be particular average. The ancient laws, says Benecke,
as well as the opinions of the English and foreign lawyers,
are also in favor of this distinction. And it is, as far as I have
been able to learn, the practice of all countries." The same will,
the same positive action, the same purpose, and, it may be added,
the same predicament or position of the actors, must exist in
each class of cases. There must be intent and act, prompted
by, and tending to, a practicable, or at least a probable result,
and not mere endurance or submission to uncontrollable necessity in either case.
Thus, says Benecke, "when a vessel is purposely run ashore
(p. 143), and afterwards got off with darhage; the question

310

SUPREME COURT.
Barnard et al. v. Adams et al.

whether repairs of such damage belong to general or particular
average depends entirely upon the circumstances of the case.
If the situation of the vessel were such as to admit of no alternative; so that, without running her ashore she would have
been unavoidably lost, and that measure were resorted to for
the purpose of saving the lives or liberty of the crew, no contribution can take place, because nothing, in fact, was sacrificed. But if the vessel and cargo were in a perilous, but not
a desperate situation, and the measure of running her ashore
deliberately adopted, as best calculated to save the ship and
cargo ; in that case the damage sustained, according to the fundarental rules, constitutes a claim for restitution." And Mr.
Phillips, in his work on Insurance (Vol. I. p. 338), and in a note
to Stevens on Average (p. 81), lays down the law, both in Eng.
land and in the United States, to be this; that "the voluntary
strafiding of the ship is general average; but not the mere
steering her to a less dangerous place for stranding, when she
is inevitably drifting to the shore." I am wholly unable to perceive how, in conformity with the rules and principles above
cited as constituting the foundation of general average, contribution could justly be claimed in this instance for the loss of
the ship. For there is not a scintilla of proof in this cause
tending to show a design to sacrifice the ship, or any thing else,
nor tending to prove that the course pursued was one which,
under any circumstances, could possibly have been avoided.
On the contrary, the testimony establishes, as far as it is possible to establish any facts, that the stranding was the effect of
the vis major, of an inevitable necessity, - that every effort was
made to avoid this necessity,'and that the only act of the mind
apparent in the case was the determination, to repeat the language of 111r. Phillips, already quoted, "merely to steer her to
a less dangerous place for stranding, when she was inevitably
drifting to the shore" ; - a determination not less for the benefit
of the ship than for that of the cargo, and one falling within
the general scope of the duty and discretion of every master
or seaman.

There is no contrariety in the testimony in this case. The
single witness,' the mate, who was examined, states most explicitly the hopeless and desperate condition of the vessel; she had lost all her anchors, was in the midst of a hurrieane,
and drifting to the shore under a force which the witness explicitly says nothing could resist. He therefore did not elect
to run her ashore, or to make her a sucrifice for the general
good; he only sought to save her as far as possible from danger or injury. It appears to me to be no slight parado:< to
assert, that a man is the positive and controlling agent ia the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

311

Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

accomplishment of an effect which he merely suffers, and which
is forced upon him by a power that he is wholly unable to resist or influence, and that it is equally paradoxical to declare,
that we elect and seek a sacrifice or a peril from which we are
most anxiously fleeing. The cases at nisi prius in the federal
courts, and in the courts of the States referred to, leave this
matter pretty much in equipoise, if indeed they do not incline
to the side of the question here maintained. We have Story
and Washington and Tilghman opposed to Kent and Gibson
and Kennedy; with this consideration attending the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, that they are the most
recent, and have been made upon an examination and review
of the cases which they have overruled. Repeating the assurance of entire deference entertained for the opinions of my
brethren, and of the sincerest diffidence of the conclusions of
my own mind, yet being unable to concur in those opinions, I
have no claim to share in their merits if they are right, and if
they are incorrect, my position with respect to them should be
equally understood.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southem District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordere& and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

THoziAs HENDERSON AND THOMIAS CALLOWAY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, ,C.

THE STATE OF TENNESS.E.
If the defendant in an ejeetment suit ciaims a right to the possession of land derived

under a title which springs from a reservation in a treaty between the United

States and an Indian tribe, and a State court decides against the validity of such

title, this court has jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act,
o0 review that de.idion.

But if such defendant merely sets up the title of the reservee as an outstanding title,
and thus prevents a recovery by the plaintiff, without showing in himself a connection with the title of the reservee, and then a State court decides against the de-

fendant in the ejectment, this court has no jurisdiction to review that decision.

In order to give jurisdiction to this rourt, the party must claim the right for himself,

and not for a third person, in whose title he has no interest.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
An action of ejectment was brought in the Circuit Court for

