348

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

IsAAc LAwDEs, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSHUA

B.

BRAT.

Where the Commissioners who acted under the act of Congress passed on the 3d of
March, 1807, for the adjustment of land titles in Missouri, decided in favor of a
claim, and issued a certificate accordingly, this decision settled two points i namely,
first, that the claimant was the proper person to receive the certificate, and second,
that the title so confirmed was better than any other Spanish title.
But between the presentdtion and confirmation of the claim, the claimant had a
property which was subject to seizure and sale under execution according to the
then laws of Missouri; and the subsequent confirmation by the Commissioners
will not destroy the title held under the sheriff's deed.
Neither will a patent subsequently taken out under the title of the original claimant
avoid the sheriff's deed:
The claim was. founded on a settlement for ten years prior to the 20th of December,
1803; and in such cases the decision of the Commissioners was final against the
United States, and entitled the party to a patent, which gave a perfect legal title,
and went back, by relation, to the original presentation of the petition. It con.sequently enured to the benefit of the alienee.
A patent was required in cases of final confirmations, founded on settlenent righds;
before its issuance the title was still equitable.
The original claimant being dead, a patent was afterwards issued to his representatives. But an act of Congress, passed on the 20th of May, 1836, declared that, in
such cases, the title should enure to the benefit of the assignee. Upon this ground,
also, the sheriff's deed conveyed a valid title in preference to an heir or devisee.
The patent, when issued, conveyed, by virtue of this law, the legal title to the
person who held the equitable title.
The circumstance, that the sheriff's deed was not recorded, was of no consequence
as between a party claiming under that deed and the devisees of the original
claimant; nor was it of any consequence as between the party claiming under
that deed and an assignee of those devisees, provided such assignee had notice of
the existence of the dedd from the sheriff. And an open and notorious possession
under that deed was a circumstance from which the jury might prestime that the
assignee had notice, not only of the fact of possession, but of the title under which
it was held.
So, also, where the lands of the deceased debtor (the original claimant) were afterwards sold under a judgment against his executors (conformably to the laws of
Missouri), and afterwards acquired by the same party who had purchased under
the first sheriff's sale, a refusal of the court below to instruct the jury that this
sale was void, was correct

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Missouri.
Isaac Landes, a citizen of Kentucky, brought an action of
ejectment in the court below, at the October term of 1845,
agaist Joshua -B. Brant, a citizen of Missouri, to recover a lot
of ground in the city of St. Louis. Plea, general issue.
At the trial of the cause, the plaintiff gave in evidence the
following patent: -

Patent to Clamorgan.
The United States of America, to all to whom these presents
shall come, greeting:
"Know ye, that there has been deposited in the General
Land Office a certificate numbered one thousand one hundred
and ninety-three, of the recorder of land titles at St. Louis,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

349

Landes v. Brant

Missouri, whereby it appears that, in pursuance of the severl
acts of Congress for the adjustment of titles and claims to lands,
Jacques Clamorgan, under Gabriel Dodier, was confirmed in his
claim to a tract of land, containing thirty-four acres and sixtyeight hundredths of an acre, bounded and described in a survey
dated October 4th, 1826, as follows, to wit: beginning at a
stone, the northeast corner of survey number one thousand
four hundred and seventy-three, of forty arpents, for Francis
Bissonet; thence north twenty-five degrees and forty-five
minutes east, two chains and ninety-two links, to an old stone
in a ravine on the east side of Third Street, which stone, lying
flat in said ravine, was reinserted by the deputy surveyor, and
from which stone the southwest corner of a three-story brick
house (in block number sixty-six) bears north eighty-seven degrees east; the northwest corner of a brick house (in block
number sixty-five, Barbee's tavern) bears south; the northwest corner of -a stone house (in block number twenty-six,
Eph. Town's 'Missouri hotel) bears north sixty-nine degrees
thirty' minutes east ; and a black locust, eight inches in diameter, bears north seventy-three degrees west, distant forty-one
links; thence north seventy-five degrees twenty minutes west
at eighty-three chains an old stone; at one hundred chains an
old stone; one hundred and twenty chains to an old stone, the
northwest corner of the present survey, from which a white
oak, four inches in diameter, bears north twentjy-four degrees
west, distant sixteen links; a white oak, three inches in
diameter, bears north seventy-five degrees east, distant eleven
links; and a red oak, five inches in diameter, bears south fortytwo degrees east, distant twenty-two links; thence south
twenty-five degrees forty-five minutes west, two chains and
ninety-seven links, to a stone, the northwest corner of survey
number one thousand four hundred and seventy-three, of
Francis Bissonet; thence south seventy-five degrees twenty'
minutes east, one hundred and twenty chains, to the place of
beginning, being in township forty-five north of range seven
east of the fifth principal meridian, and being designated as
survey number one thousand two hundred and seventy-eight
in the State of Missouri. There is, therefore, granted by the
United States unto the said Jacques Clamorgan, under Gabriel
Dodier, and to- his heirs, the tract of land above described. To
have and to hold the said tract, with the appurtenances, unto
the said'Jacques Clamorgan, under Gabriel Dodier, and to his
heirs and assigns for ever.
"In testimony whereof, I, James K. Polk, President of tle
United States, have caused these letters to be made patent,
and the seal of the -General Land Office to be hereunto affixed.
30
VOL. x

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

"Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the 18th
L.
day"of June, in the year of our Lord 1845, and of the
[I independence of the United States the sixty-ninth.
"By the President,

JAMES K. POLK.
By J. KNox WALKER, ,ecretary.
"Recorded Vol. X. pages 36, 37, 38.
"S. H. LAuGHLIN,

Recorder of the General Land Office."
Also an extract from the minutes of- the Commissioners to
decide land claims, &c., and a record of a confirmation to
Jacques Clamorgan, as follows: "Wednesday, November 13th, 1811. Board met; present,
John B. C. Lucas, Clement B. Penrose, and Frederic Bates,
Commissioners. - Cer. 1278.
"Jacques Clamorgan, assignee of Esther, mulattr~ss, assignee
of Joseph Brazeau, assignee of Gabriel Dodier, claiming one
by 40 arpents of land, situate [oni Little Prairie, adjoining the
town of St. Louis, produces a concession from St. Ange and
Piernas, L. G., dated 23d May, 1772; a fr.ansfer from Gabriel
Dodier and Joseph Brazeau to Esther, dated 4th November,
1793; from Esther to claimant, dated 2d September, 1794.
"The Board grant to Jacques Clamorgan forty arpents of
land, under the provisions of the second section of the act of
Congress) entitled 'An Act respecting claims to land,' and
,passed 3d March, 1807, and order that the same be surveyed
conformably to the metes and bounds contained in the report
of a survey made for said Dodier, and found in Livre Terrien,
No. 2, folio 15. Survey at expense of the United States.
"Board adjourned till to-morrow, nine o'clock, A. Al. John
B. C. Lucas, Clement B. Penrose, Frederic Bates.
"Recorder's Office; St. Louis, Missouri, December 1st, 1846.
I do certfy the above to have been truly transcribed from book
No. 5, of the Commissioners' minutes, pages 398,406, and 407,
as the sameremains of record in this office.
" LOREN

SPENCER,

U. S. Recorder of Land Titles in the .tate of Missouri."
"Louisiazna. - Commissioners' Certificate, No. 1278.
"We, the undersigned, Commissioners for adjusting the titles
and claims to land in the Territory of Louisiana, have decided
that Jacques Clamorgan, claiming under Gabriel Dodier, origi.
nal claimant, is entitled to a patent under the provisions of the
second section of the act of Congress, entitled ' An Act respecting claims to land in the Territories of Orleans and Louisiana,'

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

351

Landes v. Brant.

passed the 3d of March, 1807, for forty arpents of land, situate
in the District of St. Louis, Little Prairie, adjoining the town
of St. Louis, by virtue of ten consecutive years' possession, prior
to the 20th December, 1803, and order thaf the same be surveyed conformably to the metes and bounds established in the
report of a survey made for said Gabriel Dodier, and found in
Livre Terrien, No. 2, folio 16. John B. C. Lucas, Clement B.
Penrose, Frederic Bates.
"Recorder's Office, St. Louis, 24th February, 1847. The
above is a correct copy of original certificate No. 1278, on file
in this office, issued by the board of United States Commissioners therein designated, for ascertaining and adjusting the
titles and claims to land in the Territory of Louisiana.
"LOREN

SPENCER,

U. S. Recorder of Land Titles in the State of Missouri."
Also a certified extract from the registry of patent certificates,
containing the date (February 10th, 1846) and the number
(1193) of the certificate issued to Clamorgan, together with a
copy of survey made in October, 1826.
The plaintiff also gave in evidence the last will and testament of Jacques Clamorgan, dated 31st October, 1814, and admitted to probate on the 7th of November, 1814, in which, after
the payment of his debts and the distribution of 150 piastres
to the poor, he devised all his estate to his natural children, St.
Eutrope, Apoline, Cyprien Martial, and Maximin, to be divided
into five equal parts, of which MNaximin was to have two parts
and each of the others one part.
Also the last will and testament of Cyprien Martial Clamorgan, dated 27th Febr.uary, 1827, and admitted to probate on
the 27th of May, 1827, in which he devises two lots of ground,
situate in block No. 25 in the city of St. Louis, to Henry Clamorgan, second natural son of his natural sister, Apoline Clamorgan, and a lot in the same block to Louis and Louisa,
infant children of said Apoline, jointly; also all the interest or
estate which he might be entitled to in any lands in the State
of Missouri to his sister Apoline and her children, Louis, Henry, and Louisa, and the survivor of them.
Also the last will and testament of Apoline Clamorgan, dated
the 11th day of April, 1830, and admitted to probate on the 12th
day of May, 1830, wherein she devises to Louis and Louisa,
and such other children as might be born to her, all her interest
and estate in a lot one hundred and twenty feet front by three
hundred feet in depth (conveyed to St. Eutrope, Cyprien Martial, and the testatrix, by Joseph Brazeau for Jacques Clamorgan), being in block No. 2.5 in the city of St. Louis; likewise

352

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

any interest or estate she might have in any other lands in the
State of Missouri to her children.
The plaintiff also gave in evidence a deed bearing date the
28th day of April, 1845, from Louis and Henry Clamorgan to
the plaintiff and one Fidelio C. Sharp, conveying all the interest (except an undivided fourth) which they might have under
any patent to be issued by the United States upon the certificate of confirmation dated November 13th, 1811, to Jacques
Clamorgan.
It-was admitted, on behalf of the defendant, that, at the time
of the institution of this suit, he was inpossession of a part of
the premises described and embraced in the plaintiff's declaration, to wit, a lot in the city of St. Louis, fronting one hundred
and eleven feet six inches on Washington Avenue, and ruaning
back north one hundred and fifty-two feet in depth, bot nded
on the south by Washington Avenue and on the west by
Fourth Street; and that the said lot is embraced in the confirmation, survey, and patent read in evidence by the plaintiff,
being part of that forty arpent tract, which tract is bounded
south by the centre of Washington Avenue.
It was proven, on the part of the plaintiff, that it was reported
and beheved by the near relatives and friends of St. Eutrope
and Maximin, that they died many years ago, the former leaving a wife, but no children, the latter having never been married, and both having died intestate.
That Cyprien Martial died in the year 1826 or 1827, and
that Apoline died in 1829 or 1830; that Apoline left four children at her death, to wit, Louis, Henry, Louisa, and Cyprien;
that Louisa died in 1833 or 1834, being then only seven or
eig'ht years old; that Louis, Henry, and Cyprien, her remaining children, are yet living; that Apoline died a few days before the birth of her son Cyprian; that Apoline was never
married, and her children were illegitimate ; that Cyprien,
Martial, and Apoline were mulattoes.
It was admitted on the part of plaintiff and defendant, that
Jacques Clamorgan died between the date and probate of his
will, as read in evidence by the plaintiff.
The defendant gave in evidence a transcript of a record of
the General Court of the Territory of Louisiana, in the case of
Gregoire Sarpy, Executor of Antoine Reihl, v. Jacques Ctoiorgan. In this transcript no return appeared upon the summons.
The judgment was rendered 16th Mlay, 1808, and commenced
with the usual form, " And now at this day come the parties
aforesaid, by their attorneys," &c. Execution was taken out
and levied on the interest of Clamorgan in a certain lot of land
one arpent front by forty arpents in depth (being that now in

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

353

Landes v. Brant.

controversy), and the same was sold at public auction by Jeremiah Connor, the sheriff, to Alexander McNair, and a sheriff's
deed given therefor, bearing date the 8th day of July, 1808.
Also a transcript of a record of the Circuit Court of St.
Louis County, in the case of Rufus Easton v. Jacques Clamorgan's Executors, setting out a judgment against the defendants,
and an execution thereon, and a sale and deed by John K.
Walker, sheriff, to John O'Fallon and Jesse G. Lindell, after
the following advertisement :" Advertisement. - Sheriff's Sale.
"By virtue of a writ of execution issued from the clerk's
office of the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, and to me directed, in favor of Rufus Easton, against Jacques Clamorgan's
executors, I have levied upon, and will sell for cash to the
highest bidder, at the court-house door in St. Louis, on Thursday the 27th day of July instant, between the hours of nine
and five, all the right, title, claim, interest, estate, and property,
that was of said Clamorgan at the time of his death, in and to
a piece or parcel of land, containing one arpent in front by forty
arpents in depth, and bounded on the eastern end by a fence
formerly made to defend the crops of the inhabitants of St.
Louis against the animals or beasts; on the north by land of
Tayon (P.re) ; on the western end by the king's domain or vacant land; and on the south by the highway which leads to
the village of St. Charles; it being the same lot of forty arpents
acquired by said Clamorgan of Gabriel Dodier, by deed bearing date November 4th, 1793. The boundaries, as above set
forth, are the dame as given in said deed. Sold to satisfy said
execution and costs. St. Louis, July 1st, 1826.
"JOHN K. WALKER,

Sheriff."

To the admission of both these recdrds the plaintiff objected,
and, upon the objection being overruled, excepted.
Defendant then read in evidence the following documents,
to wit:-1st. A deed from Alexander McNair and wife to
Jeremiah Connor. 2d. A copy made by the Spanish Lieutenant-Governor of a deed from Dodier to Esther, with a deed
from Esther to 'William C. Carr indorsed thereon; and 3d.
A deed from William C. Carr and wife to Jeremiah Connor,
also indorsed on such Spanish copy. 4th. A deed from Jeremiah Connor to George F. Strother. 5th. A deed from George
F. Strother to James D. Earl. 6th. A mortgage from James
D. Earl to Sullivan Blood. 7th. A deed of release from James
D. Earl to Sullivan Blood. 8th. A deed from George F. Strother and wife to Thomas H. Benton and Thomas Biddle, in
30 *

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

trust, &c. 9th. A deed from Thomas H. Benton and Thomas
Biddle, and Luke E. Lawless and wife, to Sullivan Blood.
10th. A deed from Sullivan Blood and wife to the defendant.
It was in evidence that Jeremiah Connor had inclosed the
Dodier lot soon after the change of government. That Clamorgan went to. Mexico in 1806, and returned in 1808 or 1809.
There were also in evidence three deeds of emancipation from
Jacques Clamorgan to his four children, St. Eutrope, Cyprien
Martial, Apoline, and Maximin, all dated 16th September,
1809, in which it was recited that St. Eutrope was born in
April, 1799; Apoline on the 7th of February, 1803; Cyprien
Martial on the 10th of June, 1803; and Maximin in the beginning of the year 1807.
The following instructions were asked for by the plaintiff:1. That the legal effect of the patent and confirmation read
in evidence by tle plaintiff was to vest the legal title to the
premises therein mentioned in Jacques Clamorgan, the patentee, if living at the date of the patent, and if not living, then
in his heirs, devisees, or assignees, in the same manner as if
the patent had issued in the lifetime of said Clamorgan. Giver1.
2. That, prior to the confirmation read in evidence by the
plaintiff, the legal title to the premises embraced in said confirmation was in the government of the United 'States,- and
that the confirmation, survey, and patent read in evidence by
the plaintiff were effectual to vest the legal title to said premises in Jacques Clamorgan, his heirs, devisees, or assignees.
Given.
1 3. That the judgment read in evidence by the defendant
in favor of Gregoire Sarpy, executor of Antoine Reihle, to
the use of Mildrum and Parks, against Jacques Clamorgan,
was null and void, and the sale made by the sheriff by virtue
of the execution issued thereon, and the deed from said sheriff
to Alexander McNair, are also null and void. Refused.
4. That the deed from Sheriff Connor to Alexander McNair,
dated 8th July, 1808, and read in evidence by the defendant,
is void for uncertainty, and should be disregarded by the jury.
Refused.
5. That the deed from Sheriff Connor to Alexander McNair,
read in evidence by the defendant, is void as to the plaintiff,
unless he had notice of said deed at the date of the deed from
Louis and Henry Clamorgan to him, as read in evidence by
said plaintiff. Refused, and No. 5 (post, p. 357) given.
6. That the sale made by John K. Walker, sheriff, to O'Fallon and Lindell, on 27th July, 1826, and the deed made in pursuance of said salc, dated 10th August, 1826, as read in evidence by defendant, are fraudulent and void Rejected.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

355

Landes v. Brant.

7. That if, at the date of the levy and sale by Sheriff Walker
to O'Fallon and Lindell, the premises levied upon, or a considerable portion thereof, then constituted a part of the city of
St. Louis, and had before then been laid off into blocks and
squares, separated by streets and alleys, and distinctly marked
out by stones set up at the corners, or other visible boundaries, and if some of said lots or blocks had before then been
'sold and conveyed by Jeremiah Connor, claiming to be the
proprietor thereof, and if upon the said lots or blocks, so
sold, buildings and other improvements had before-then been
erected, then the said levy and sale were null and void. Rejected.
S. That if the premises levied upon by Sheriff Walker, by
virtue of' the execution in favor of Rufus Easton, and sold by
said sheriff to O'Fallon and Lindell for thirty-three dollars,
were at the time of said levy and sale susceptible of division
without injury to the property, and were at the date of said
levy and sale worth five thousand. dollars or more, then the
said sale is fraudulent and void in law. Refused.,
9. That the sale made by. Sheriff Walker to O'Falon and
Lindell is void, unless the said sheriff in his levy or advertisement, or in the deed to said O'Fallon and Lindell, described
the premises sold with reasonable certainty, so that the same
could have been identified by the said description. Given.
10. That if the premises in controversy are embraced by the
confirmation and patent read in evidence by the plaintiff, the
sale and conveyance from Sheriff Connor to Alexander McNair,
read in evidence by defendant, w re not operative to convey
the legal title to said MeNair, and the said sale and conveyance cannot prevail as against the patent and confirmation in
this action.
This instruction as asked for is refused, for the reason that
it involves confusion; we are of opinion that the legal title
to the premises embraced by the sheriff's deed was in the
United States until the patent issued, provided the deed covers
the land in dispute; but that the imperfect title owned by Clamorgan did -pass by the sheriff's deed made by Connor to
McNair, 8th July, 1808; and that neither the act of confirmation by the Board of Commissioners in 1811, nor the issuance
of the patent in 1845, defeated the title made by Sheriff Connor in 1808; and so the jury are instructed.
11. That the deed from Gabriel Dodier to Esther, and the
deed from Esther to William C. Carr, and the deed from William C. Carr to Jeremiah Connor, read in evidence by defendant, did not at the date of the said last-mentioned deed vest
ia the said Connor any title to the premises in dispute which.

856

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

can prevail in this action; provided the same premises had before then been confirmed to Jacques. Clamorgan, and have since
been patented to him-by the government of the United States.
Given.
12. That the possession by the defendant, or those under
whom he claims, of the premises in controversy, in order under
any circumstances to constitute a valid bar to the plaintiff's
recovery, must have been an actual, adverse, and uninterrupted
possession for the space of twenty years next preceding the institution of this suit.
This instruction is given, although not strictly as asked.
13. That if, at the dates of the sale and conveyance from
Sheriff Connor to Alexander McNair, read in evidence by defendant, the premises conveyed in said deed were susceptible
of a description by which the same might have been identified
with reasonable certainty, and if the same were not so described either in the levy or sheriff's deed, then the said deed
is void, and vested no title in McNair.
This instruction involves one matter of law, appertaining to
the decision of the court on a motion heretofore made to reject
the sheriff's deed, and overruled; and therefore the instruction
is refused; but the jury are instructed that it is their duty to
find whether the land described in the sheriff's deed is the land
in dispute in this action, and the same land that was confirmed
to Jacques Clamorgan; and if the land in dispute is not the
same land conveyed by the sheriff's deed and confirmed as
aforesaid, then said deed cannot furnish a defence to this defendant.
14. That if, at the date of the levy and sale by Sheriff Connor to Alexander McNair, read in evidence by defendant, Jacques Clamorgan owned two tracts of land, each of them containing one arpent in front by forty in depth, both situated in
the Little Prairie and adjoining the then town of St. Louis,
then the deed from Sheriff Connor to Alexander McNait, read
in evidence by defendant, is void for uncertainty.
This instruction is refused, because there was no legal evidence given to the jury, either proving, or tending to prove,
that on the 8th of July, 1808, Jacques Clamorgan was the
owner of two such tracts of land.
15. That the execution in favor of Rufus Easton against
the executors of Jacques Clamorgan, dated the 3d day of April,
1826, and read in evidence by the defendant, and all the proceedings of the sheriff under and by virtue of that execution,
are null and void. Refused.
16. If the jury find from the evidence that the boundaries
described in the deed from John K. Walker, sheriff, to John

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Landes v. Brant.

O'Fallon and Jesse G. Lindell, given in evidefnce by the defendant were not, at the time of the sale by the said sheriff,
the true boundaries of the tract of one by forty arpents that
had been confirmed to Jacques Clamorgan, as mentioned in
the certificate and record of confirmation given in evidence by
the plaintiff, and that the same has not been bounded in ie
manner stated in said deed for a period of more than twenty
years, and that the deed referred to in the said description contained in said sheriff's deed, as the one from which it was
taken, had no existence in fact, then the said description is insufficient, and said sheriff's deed from "Walker is void; unless
the jury shall find from the evidence, that the said tract of one
by forty arpents was generally known in the community at the
date of said sale by the description given in said deed.
This instruction is refused, and the jury instructed instead
thereof, that they must find the land in dispute was covered by
Sheriff Walker's deed to O'Fallon and Lindell, before that deed
can avail the defendant as an outstanding title.
17. That the deed, given in evidence by the defendant, from
Jeremiah Connor, sheriff, to Alexander McNair, conveyed no
title to said McNair to the tract of one by forty arpents mentioned in the confirmation of the Board of Commissioners of
date November 13th, 1811, given in evidence by the plaintiff. Refused.
And thereupon the court gave. the 1st, 2d, 9th, lth, and 12th
instructions, and refused to give the remainder, but in place of
the 5th gave the following: 5. The unregistered deed made by Sheriff -Connor to McNair
on the 8th of July, 1808, was valid, as between Clamorgan, the
execution debtor, and McNair, the purchaser; and equally so as
against the devisees of Clamorgan, without being recorded.
But it was not valid as against a purchaser of the same premises from Clamorgan's devisees, who purchased for a valuable
consideration, and without notice of the existence of the deed
of 1808.
The deed on which the plaintiff relies was made in April,
1845, and if the plaintiff then had actual notice of the deed. of
1808, it was valid also as to him, whitout having been recorded.
And if the jury find that the defendant Brant was in the open
and notorious possession and occupation of the premises when
the deed of 1845 was made, and had been so for years before
that time, continuously holding under the deed of 1808, then
this is evidence from which, connected with other circumstances, the jury may find that the plaintiff had actual notice
of the existence of the deed -of 1808, when he took his deed in
1845. And so the jury are instructed.

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

And in place of the 10th, gave the following:10. This instruction, as asked for, is refused, for the reason
that it involves confusion; we are of opinion that the legal
title to the premises embraced by the sheriff's deed was in the
United States until the patent issued, provided the deed covers
the land, in dispute; but that the imperfect title owned by
Clamorgan did pass by the sheriff's deed made by Connor to
McNair, 8th July, 1808; and that neither the act of confirmation by the Board of Commissioners in 1811, nor the issuance
of the patent in 1845, defeated the title made by Sheriff Connor in 1808, and so the jury are instructed.
And in place of the 13th, gave the following :13. This instruction involves one matter of law appertaining
to the decision of the court, on a motion heretofore made to reject the sheriff's deed, and overruled, 4nd therefore the instruction is refused; but the jury are instructed that it is their duty to
find whether the land described in the sheriff's deed is the land
in dispute in this action, and the same land that was confirmed
to Jacques Clamorgan; and if the land in dispute is not the
same land conveyed b T the sheriff's deed, and confirmed as
aforesaid, then said deed cannot furnish a defence to this defendant.
And in place of the 16th, gave the following: 16. This instruction is refused, and the jury instructed instead thereof, that they must find the land in dispute was
covered by Sheriff Walker's deed to O'Fallon and Lindell, and
before that deed can avail the defendant as an outstanding
title.
To the refusal of which several-instructions as asked for, the
plaintiff at the time excepted.
The defendant then moved the court for the following instructions : 1. If the jury find from the evidence that the tract of land
sold and conveyed by Jeremiah Connor, sheriff, to Alexander
McNair, in 1808, as the property of Jacques Clamorgan, is the
same tract of land which was claimed by said Clamorgan before the Board of Commissioners, and confirmed to him, then
the confirmation to said Clamorgan enures to said Alexander
McNair and those claiming under him. Given.
2. If the jury find from the evidence that the lot in dispute
is embraced in the tract of land sold and conveyed by John K.
Walker, sheriff, to Jesse G. Lindell and John O'Fallon, in
1826, by virtue of the judgment and execution in favor of
Rufus Easton against the executors of Jacques Clamorgan,
then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. Given.
3. If the jury find from the evidence thatthe defendant, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

359

Landes v. Brant.

those under whom he claims, have been in possession of the lot
in controversy for twenty years consecutively, prior to the commencement of this suit, and since Apoline Clamorgan and
Cyprien Martial Clamorgan, under whom the plaintiff claims,
arrived at the age of twenty-one years, that such possession
was under a claim of title adverse to the plaintiff and those
under whom he claims, then the issue ought to be found for
the defendant. Given.
To the giving of which the plaintiff objected, but the court
overruled the objection, and gave each of said instructions, to
which the plaintiff excepted at the time.
Verdict ibr plaintiff, and judgment thereon, upon which this
writ of error was sued out.
The cause was argued by. 111. Bradley, for the plaintiff in
error, and by 31r. Gamble, for the defendant in error.
JM1r. Bradley, for the plaintiff in error.
First Point. The legal title being clearly in the plaintiff, the
first question arises under the tenth instruction, in which it is
submitted there is errec
1st. An exception was reserved to the admissibility of this
deed in evidence; because the record of the cause is either imperfect, or, if perfect, it shows the judgment is void.
It is not an erroneous judgment. There could be no jurisdiction without an appearance. The recital in the judgment,
"And now at this day come the parties aforesaid, by their attorney," &c., is simply surplusage. That could not give life to
a void act. There was no service of process, no plea filed, no
appearance in person or by attorney, no issue, no evidence.
Smith v. Ross, 7 Miss. 463; Hollingsworth v. Barbour and
others, 4 Peters, 466, 472; Anderson v. Miller, 4 Blackf. 417;
Shaefer v. Gates, 2 B. Monroe, 4-53; Englehead v. Sutton,
7 How. (Miss.) 99.
If the judgment is void, it may be objected to in a collateral
proceeding. Campbell v. Brown, 6 How. (Miss.) 230.
It was not a judgment by confession, nor want of a plea.
Again, there is evidence to show that Jacques Clamorgan
was not at St. Louis at the time the writ issued, or between
that time and the time at which the judgment purports to have
been entered. He left there in 1806, and returned in the winter of 1808, or spring of 1809. The writ issued 6th April; 1808;
judgment, 16th May, 1808; execution, 6th June, sale, 8th July,
1808.
2d. If the judgment was valid, yet the deed was inoperative
and void as to subsequent bond fide creditors and purchasers,

360

SUPREME

COURT.

Landes v. Brant.

without actual notice, if it was not recorded within the time
prescribed by law. This is admitted in the instruction. "Where
there is no record, there must be -actual notice. 1 Territorial
Laws (Edwards's Comp.), p. 47, § 8; Frothingharn v. Stocker,
11 Mo. R. 3.
3d. But the court below say further, if the jury find the defendant Brant was in open and notorious possession and occupation of the premises, &c., "then this is evidence from
which, connected with other circumstances, the jury may find
the plaintiff had actual notice."
It is submitted that there is error in this last clause of the
instruction. Undoubtedly there might be other circumstances
which, taken in connection with the possession, would justify
such finding, but it was an abstract proposition eminently
fitted to'mislead the jury.
Second Point. In the plaintiff's fifth and defendant's first
instructions, there is error.
1st. The proposition there is, that the imperfect title held by
Clamorgan before the confirmation was transferred by the
sheriff's deed to MeNair, and the subsequent confirmation and
patent to Clamorgan enured to the benefit of McNair.
1. If the imperfect title passed by that deed, the purchaser
could and ought to have perfected it before the Commissioners.
12 Peters, 454,458.
2. It was property. Soulard et al. v. U. States, 4 Peters,
511.
3. The decision of the Commissioners, confirming the rcla2ir,
is conclusive as to all parties having antecedent rights. U.
States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 86; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters,
458; Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 Howard, 357; U. States v. King,
3 Howard, 787; Hickey v. Stewart, 3 Howard, 759, 760;
Newman v. Lawless, 6 Mo. R. 290; Mackay v. Dillon, 7 Mo. R.
13.
4. The deed is as to Clamorgan in invitz'm. It is without
covenant of any kind, and but a conveyance, against his will,
of such title as he then had. He was not bound to perfect it.
5. A deed operates by relation, or enures to the benefit of
another, only where he who receives the deed has led the other
into an interest in the property, and to avoid injury to that
interest from events happening between the creation of that
interest and the execution of the deed, or the first and second
delivery of the deed. 4 Kent's Com. 454, 455; 4 J6hns. 230;
15 Johns. 316 ; 1 Cow. 613.
6. If McNair had, under the sheriff's deed, an irperfect
title, and was bound to have perfected it, and Clamorgan was
under no obligation to have it confirmed, and afterwards pro-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

361

Landes v. Brant.

cured a confirmation to himself in his individual right, it vested
in him the legal title and equitable interest, paramount to any
intermediate equities created against his will.
But 2d. The court refused to instruct the jury that the deed
from the sheriff was void for uncertainty in the description of
the property. It is a sale under execution. Hart v. Rector, 7
Mo. R. 534, and cases there cited; Evans v. Ashley, 8 Mo. R.
177 ; 1 J. J.MNarshall, 33. See the cases cited.
Third Point. The plaintiff's ninth and defendant's second
instructions relate to the second record, judgment, execution,
and sheriff's sale. The plaintiff submits there is error in these
instructions, as also in the refusal to give the instructions refused. An exception was reserved to this deed.
1st. It was a suit and judgment against an executor, "and
that 1Y_ have lAib execution against the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements, which were of said Jacques Clamorgan,"
&c.
The execution follows the judgment.
Although the judgment may be simply erroneous, and therefore not now to be called in question, it cannot justify the .execution. The Revised Code of Missouri, 1825, p. 112, §§ 49,50,
provides for the classification of debts, and, p. 563, for the classification or marshalling of the assets.
-The personal estate should have been first subjected. Gant]y's Lessee v. Ewing, 3 Howard, 707; 1 Blackf. 210.
2d. If the execution was properly issued, the deed did not
describe the property with reasonable, certainty. No deed from
Gabriel Dodier to Clamorgan is shown to help out the defective
description, nor was there in fact any such deed. See cases
above. Besides, the land had then been, laid off, divided into
blocks and squares, and lots, and -streets and alleys, and the description was wholly delusive.
3d. The property sold for $33 to satisfy $ 27.88, leaving a
surplus of $ 5.12. The property was worth $ 10,000, if free
from encumbrance. It was capable of division, and was, in
fact, divided. It was evidently, taken in connection with the
previous sale under another execution, intended to get up all
the interests of all Clamorgan's heirs in all his property within
the jurisdiction of the court. Taking all the circumstances together, it was strong evidence of fraud, and ought to have been
left to the jury on that ground. Tiernan v. Wilson, 6 Johns.
Ch. 417; 4 Cranch, 403; 18 Johns. R. 362; 6 Wend. 522; 3
Black. 376.
Fourth Point. The instruction granted by the court, as to
adverse possession, left to the jury a mixed question of law and
fact. The plaintiff submits that it is erroneous.
VOL. x.

31

362

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

1st. Because it submitted to the jury to find whether the possession was adverse, without qualification.
The defendant claimed under the two sheriff's deeds. If
those deeds were void, no length of time would create an adverse possession.
A sheriff's deed which is void for want of jurisdiction in the
court under whose judgment the sale took place, is not such a
conveyance as that a possession under it will be protected by
the statute of limitations. Walker v. Turner, 9 Wheat. 541
-551; Powell's Lessee v. Harman, 2 Peters, 241; Hoskins v.
Helm, 4 Litt. 310; Brooks v. Marbury, 11 Wheat. 90; 9
Johns. 167"; 1 Johns. 157.
2d. The deed from Sheriff Walker to O'Fallon and Lindell
is -within twenty years of the bringing of the suit. By claiming under that deed, the defendant is estopped to deny that the
title was then in the heirs of Clamorgan. 14 Johns. 225, and
note.
The court had previously ruled these deeds to be good. If
they were void, no adverse possession could arise. Yet the
whole question of adverse possession was left to the jury.
Adverse possession is a legal idea, admits of a legal definition, of legal distinctions, and is therefore correctly laid down
to be a question of law. Bradstead v. Huntington, 5 Peters,
402, 438.
The judge did not define the legal properties necessary to
constitute an adverse possession, and the facts stated in his instruction do not of themsel - es constitute such adverse possession.
3d. The statute of limitations of Missouri cannot avail the
defendant.
1. The deed of 10th August, 1826, admits the title of plaintiff's ancestor, and there is no proof of actual adverse possession for twenty years before, and continuously down to suit
brought.
2. Louis and Henry Clamorgan, under whom the plaintiff
claims, are within the saving of the statute of 1818. Territorial Laws, 598.
Finally. The plaintiff maintains, that, although .there may
have been an equitable title in the defendant, and under the
statutes of Missouri an action of ejectment may be maintained
on an equitable title in that State, yet such title cannot prevail
against the legal title. It is conceded that the legal title is in
the plaintiff, and it is insisted by defendant that it is held in
trust for him. This is an implied trust. If it exists at all, it
arises from some wrongful act of the plaintiff, or those under
whom he claims. But it is begging the question to say the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

63

Landes v. Brant.
act was wrongful, and must enure to the, benefit nf Afendant. It was the object of the commission to settle the
rights of conflicting claimants. It was entirely within the
power of McNair or Connor to have brought this question before them. The transactions were then fresh, and no difficulty
would have occurred in adjusting any controversy between
them. On these grounds, effect is given to the confirmation to
pass the legal title. A conclusive effect is necessarily given to
such confirmation, unless it be in cases of fraud and wrong.
If there be an equity in those claiming under the said
judgments, it cannot prevail in a court of law as against the
legal title'; and the substance of the instructions given by the
court is, it is respectfully submitted, wrong in that particular.
Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 Howard, 375; Hickey v. Stewart, 3
Howard, 750; U. States v. King, 3 Howard, 787; Les Bois
v. Bramell, 4 Howard, 449.
31r. Gamble, contra.
Clamorgan had filed his claim with the Recorder of Land
Titles, and the same was pending before the Board of Commissioners, prior to the year 1808. The fifth section of the act
of Congress of the 3d of March, 1807 (2 Stat. at Large, 440),
had limited the time for the exhibition of claims to the 1st of
July, 1808. There was no mode provided by law for substituting for the claimant an heir, devisee, or assignee, who had
acquired the right of the claimant after his claim was filed.
Clamorgan claimed to be the legal representative of Gabriel
Dodier, by ptirchase from Esther, who purchased from Brazeau,
who purchased from Dodier, the original grantee. In July,
1808, the sheriff, under execution, sold the interest of Clamorgan in the land, and executed his deed to McNair, the purchaser. The thing itself, so filed, in which Clamorgan claimed
an interest, whilst it was sub judice, was sold; and his interest,
as it then existed, was sold, namely, a Spanish claim which
had been filed. The sheriff's deed is declared by the law under which it was made to be effectual "to pass to the purchaser all the estate and interest which the debtor had, or
might lawfully part with, in the land, at the time the judgment
was obtained." Edwards's Territorial Laws, p. 121, §45. The
purchaser at sheriff's sale held a conveyance which was as
operative to pass Clamorgani's interest in the land, as any instrument which Clamorgan himself could have made. He was
by that deed constituted the sole representative of Gabriel Dodier, the original grantee of the land.
As to the objection of want of an appearance, the Supreme
Court of Missouri have decided that hardly any state of cir-

364

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

cumstances would justify them to set aside a sheriff's sale,
where possession had followed the deed. Tindell v. Bank, 4
Mo. R. 228; Landis v. Perkins, 12 2Io. R. 254; Day v. Kerr,
7 Mo. R. 426. It is then the settled law of Missouri, that, under the recital contained in this judgment, the defendant will
be held to have appeared. No matter whether Clamorgan was
in Mexico or not.
If we look to the practice under the Spanish authorities, and
since, we shall find that these claims were not a contingent interest separate from the estate, (as was the case in Blanchard
v. Brooks, 12 Pick. 52,) but were a present existing interest
in the land, and were susceptible of transfer and every form of
conveyance. And in whatever form the claimant's interest was
conveyed, his claim to the confirmation was conveyed.
It is said that the purchaser should have filed his sheriff's
deed with the Board, and claimed the confirmation to himself.
But this could not be done. The law limited the time within
which claims could be filed. That time had passed before this
sale was made.
The patent which conveyed the legal title, being issued
in the name of Clamorgan, who was then dead, passed the
legal title to the person who was then the holder of the equitable title previously in Clamorgan, and the purchaser of that
equitable title would take the legal title, under the patent, in
preference to a devisee of Clamorgan. 5 Stat at Large, 31;
Act of 3d March, 1807 (2 Stat. at Large, 440).
The language of the Commissioners has probably induced
misapprehension. They "grant," &c., although they had no
power to grant. The acts of Congress make the grant, and
the Commissioners were only to ascertain, by rules of evidence,
whether the claim was a valid one, according to the laws of
Congress.
The language, then, which may be employed by.the Board,
does not, in any manner, affect the operation of the confirmation: If the words in this case had been, "the claim filed by
Jacques Clamorgan is confirmed," or, "the Board are of opinion that the claim filed by Jacques Clamorgan is a valid claim,"
the effect would have been precisely the same as is produced
by the language actually employed, "the Board grant to Jacques Clamorgan," &c.
The doctrine of relation applies here with all its force., The
Commissioners act upon the claim as filed. They act upon it
as it was when filed. The Commissioners in this case having
to decide upon claims throughout what is now Missouri, Iowa,
and Wisconsin, the adjudication would necessarily be long delayed, and would present just such a case as would make the
doctrine of relation applicable.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

365

Landes v. Brant.

A judgment relates to the first day of the term at which it is
rendered. A deed executed in pursuance of an agreement to
convey may relate back to the time of the contract. Jackson v.
Bard, 4 Johns. 230. A sheriff's deed relates back to the day
of sale. Jackson v. Dickinson, 15 Johns. 309; Boyd v. Longworth, 11 Ohio, 235. An acknowledgment of a deed relates
back to the time of its execution. 8 Ham. 87. So the confirmation relate- Lack to the filing of the claim.
As to the objection that the lands ought not to have been
sold before the goods and chattels. How can that be inquired
into collaterally in the case of a sheriff's sale? What has the
purchaser to do with the question wkether the sheriff has made
proper search for goods and chattels before he sells the land ?
There is no evidence here that there was any personalty at all.
The objection is raised merely from the form of the precept.
It was objected to the instruction as to possession, that the
court ruled, that from open and notorious possession, "connected with other circumstances," the jury might, infer that the
plaintiff had notice, &c. in TMlissouri, circumstances are considered sufficient to prove actual notice. Before a jury it
would be competent to contend that circumstances made out a
case of notice. Possession is one circumstance. A list made
out in Clarnorgan's handwvriting (this lot being omitted) is
another. And so on. The gist of the instruction was, that the
jury might find from circumstances that the plaintiff had actual notice; not that the circumstances detailed were proof of
notice.
A questioii was made in the court below in relation to the
sufficiency of the description contained in the sheriff's deed to
Meoair. The plaintiff contended that the deed was void for
uncertainty, and objected to its being admitted in evidence,
and afterwards moved for instructions to the jury to the same
effect. In the fourth instruction, the court was asked to declare,
as a matter of law, that the deed was void. This instruction the
court very properly refused, as it required the court to pass upon
all the facts in evidence before the jury, relating to the description contained in the deed. The thirteenth instruction, which
applies to the same subject, was refused by the court in the
f6rm in which it was asked, but in lieu of it the court instructed the jury, "that it was their duty to find whether the land
described in the sheriff's deed is the land in dispute in this
action, and the same land that was confirmed to Clamorgan,
and if the land in dispute is not the same land conveyed by
the sheriff's deed, and confirmed as aforesaid, then said deed
cannot furnish a defence to this defendant"
This instructiod refers the question to the jury, whether the

31*

366

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

description in the sheriff's deed covers the land in dispute.
They are to take the deed with'its description, and all the evidence describing the land in dispute, and to determinewhether
the description in the deed embraces the land in controversy.
The Supreme Court of Missouri, in the case of Landis v. Perkins, 12 Mo. Rep. 260, say: " Whether the description of the
premises sold was sufficient, would depend upon extrinsic circumstances. If the lot was known by the description given,
the sale would be valid, according to the principles settled in
the case of Hart v. Rector, 7 Mo. Rep., and parol evidence was
admissible to establish that fact."
The Circuit Court, undoubtedly, gave the proper instructi6n,
to direct the attention of the jury to the question of fact upon
'which the validity of the deed depended, and very properly
refused to instruct the jury that this deed was void for uncertainti.
'Ifit were necessary to cite authorities to show that descriptions, as general as that used in this deed, have been held to
be sufficient, I would refer the court to 4 Dev. & Bat. 414; 1
Humphreys, 80; 3 Yerger, 171; 7 Ycrger, 490; 8 Gill & Johns.
349; 2 N. Hamp. 284.

Ir. Bradleyl, in reply and conclusion.
There is a wide difference, as to adverse possession, between
a claim of title from the same7 stock under a defective deed,
and a claim of title from another stock. In the former case, if
the deed under which the claim is set up is void, it nevertheless admits the title of the other. That is the case here. If
we show that the deeds of the sheriff are void, they purporting
to convey Clamorgan's title, do we not thereby confirm as
against them the title under which they claim? Is it not an
admission that our title is good, unless it has been divested by
the machinery on which they rely? The cases cited show that
possession under' a void deed is a possession consistent with,
and subordinate to, the title of the true owner, and can never
give rise to an adverse title.
Now as to what passed by the sheriff's deeds, I maintain
that nothing passed but the naked possessory title; --" All the
estate and interest which the debtor had, or might lawfully part
with, in the land, at the time the judgment was obtained." See
Edwards's Ter. Laws, p. 121, §45. Now what had Clamorgan
at that time which he "might lawfully part with" in this land ?
I do not ask to what he might by proper covenants bind himself. But what had he which could have passed by a mere
quitclaim deed?
He had then an equitable interest in the land, which is said

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

367

Landes v. Brant.

to hae been the subject of seizure and sale. He had, also, a
claim pending before the Board of Commissioners, for a confirmation of that interest, so as to create in him a legal estate.
Was that, also, the subject of seizure and sale ? Would that
pass by a quitclaim deed? The claim was before the Board.
It is said the time for filing claims had passed. Was there
alay thing to prevent the assignee, if he were such, from filing
his assignment made subsequent to the filing of that claim?
Clearly he might have done so. Clamorgan was there. His
was a mere possessory title, with an inchoate right to the legal
estate. His possessory right was the subject of seizure and
sale. It was a valuable thing, and, unless some one else procured the legal estate, it might be perfected.. The means of
perfecting it were within his reach. The law of this court is,
that however strong the possessory right, however clear the
equity, a grant or confirmation to a stranger claiming the land
would have passed the legal estate to such stranger. There
was, then, every motive to induce him to present his claim to
a confirmation, if he had one, and it might then have been
decided, when every thing was fresh, and the parties on the
spot. Th6 law provided for legal representatives, and embraced
as well those who were assignees before, as after, the claim filed.
It was confirmed to Clamorgan.
It is supposed the legal title enured to the benefit of the intermediate assignee of Clamorgan, that is, to the forced assignee, after the claim filed. Upon what principle? Was
Clamorgan bound by any legal or moral obligation to perfect
the title? The sheriff had sold his possession; no more. Illustrations ar6 drawn from the law of relation, which is supposed to be clearly expounded in the books, and cases are put
forth to show. its operation; a deed executed in performance
of an agreement, a judgment, a sheriff's deed, the acknowledgment of a deed, are put; to which may be added the case of
Graham v. Graham, I Yes. jr. 275, and Garnons v. Knight, 8
Dowl. & Ryl. 348. In these and like cases, where a man, by
his own voluntary act, has passed an imperfect title to another
for a full consideration, and afterwards seeks to transfer the
property to another, or that interest is sought to be subjected
by process to his debts, or he has, after a full consideration received, or under covenant, received a good title, in such case,
the law, to prevent injustice, interposes, and by relation secures
the title to the first vendee. But there is a wide distinction
between voluntary and compulsory acts, between a naked quitclaim and a covenant for title, between a mere right to present
possession and enjoyment and an absolute estate in fee. In
the case of a naked quitclaim, an after-acquired title will never

368

SUPREME COURT.
Landes v. Brant.

relate back, so as to vest in the vendee of the quitclaim. 1
Cow. 613. Nor would any court tolerate for a moment, that a
squatter who has the bare possession, and sells that, should be
debarred from acquiring for himself the absolute estate in fee.
And there is a substantial reason for this distinction. He who
buys an imperfect title pays a proportionate price for it. He
has no right to look to his vendor to complete it. He takes it
for what it is worth ; no more. I admit that the same rule of
relatiori applies to sheriff's deeds, and to others acting in a fiduciary or executive capacity, where the title to the property has
passed by the sale, and the deed is a mere formal execution of
the power. In some States, Maryland for instance, the deed
from the sheriff is not necessary, nor is it in cases of chancery
sales; and when executed, it relates back to the time of the
sale. But what does it convey? Has it ever been supposed
to carry with it any thing more than the actual title or interest
which the party had at the time of such sale ? If this rule
prevails as betwveen vendor and vendee, where they deal together, and treat of the actual right or possession, the thing in esse
not in posse, it should apply with still greater force to a case
where the sale is wholly in invitum. The policy of the law
and the rules of courts are much more stringent in such cases
than in those where the parties act voluntarily.
Here the whole proceeding against Clamorgan was compulsory. He had an interest which could be taken in execution.
The confirmation was most uncertain, at best. The claim was
not appraised. It was not in any manner referred to. The
purchaser was bound to know that he was buying but a naked
possession, and he must, of course, have regulated his price by
that. There was, then, no foundation even for equity to interpose to compel a deed from Clamorgan. And will it be pretended, that courts of law will make a deed enure by relation,
when equity woild not interpose to compel the party to make
it ?
The great questions in this case are as to the effect of the
confirmation and patent; whether or not the confirmation and
patent enure to the purchasers at the sheriff's sale, oi, the deeds
of the sheriff being void, whether the title does not subsist in the
heirs and devisees .of Clamorgan.
The cases cited from the fourth and sixth volumes of the Alissouri Reports differ from this. In the first there was process
served and an appearance by attorney. In the last there was
service of process on one of the defendants. Here there was
no service of process, no appearance.
But it is thought the defects are cured by the entry, that
"cthe parties come by their attorneys," &c., and the record is.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

369

Landes v. Brant.

not to be contradicted; it binds parties and privies, is a
solemn judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, final
and conclusive until reversed.
If it is a record, it must stand
or fall by itself. It does not require the aid of the maxim
cited for its support. But is it a record, and as such entitled
to conclusive force? The judgment begins with "Therefore
it is considered," &c. The rest is recital. No court can have
jurisdiction except under, certain statutes, unless the defendant is before it. On the return of process, an attorney may
appear if the' defendant is in court, hut I know no case in
which an attorney has been allowed to appear suo rlnotu, unless the party was in court. There must be an authority, clear
and explicit, naming the attorney, or there must be a party in
court under process. Here there is neither. It is a mockery
of justice, not error, but absolutely void, to allow a voluntary
appearance by attorney without any authority of record, or the
presence of the party in court. There is nothing in the whole
proceedings from which it can be inferred that the defendant
had notice, actual or constructive, of this proceeding, and
without this the judgment is a nullity. See the cases on
the brief, and also Buckmaster v. Carlin, 3 Scam. 104, and
Crane v. French, 1 Wend. 312. A case in 6 Miss. 50, and
one in 7 Miss, 426, arc relied on to show that such a recital
binds the parties. But these cases, if they are in conflict with,
are clearly overruled by, 7 Miss. 465. If the rule is so inflexible, it would never be in the power of the defendant to show
that he had no notice.
Nor does the maxim, " Ex diurnitate temporis omnia presuvzuntur, rite et solernniter esse acta," apply to such a case. That
can avail only where there is a defect in the proof, and to supply the imperfect record. But when the proof is itself a matter of record, and no suggestion is made of a defect in it, not
evanescent, but fixed and public, courts must deal with it alone,
and not with presumptions.
Nor is the ruling of the court sustained by the passage in
Greenleaf, nor the case in Wendell, on which the defendant relies. It is not a case of an erroneous judgment; but of a judgment utterly void for want of jurisdiction over the person of the
defendant, for want of an appearance under process, or by any
voluntary authority. It is not sought to reverse or vacate it,
but to treat it as a nullity; and this may be done in a collateral proceeding as well as in any other mode.
AIr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The first title paper offered in evidence by the plaintiff was
a patent from the United States to Jacques Clamorgan, dated

SUPREME COURT.

370

Landes v. Brant.

June 18, 1845, which purports to grant "to said Clamorgan
(under Gabriel Dbdier), and to his heirs," the land in dispute.
The patent is founded on a certificate made by the first board
of commissioners established at St. Louis, which declares, that
Clamorgan, claiming under Dodier, original claimant, was entitled to a patent under the provisons of the second section of
the act of Congress of 3d March, 1807; and it was ordered
that the same should be surveyed conformably to the metes
and bounds established in the report of a survey made for said
Gabriel Dodier, "and fonnd in Livre Terrien, No. 2, folio 15;
by virtue of ten consecutive years' possession, prior to the 20th
December, 1803." The confirmation and certificate bear date
November 13th, 1811.
According to the former decisions of this court, all controversy was concluded by the confirmation as regarded two quesFirst, it settled that Clamorgan was the true and
tions
proper assignee under Dodier, through the various mesne conveyances by which Clamorgan claimed. Bissell v. Penrose,
8 How. 330. Secondly, that Clamorgan had the oldest and
best claim to the land, as against every other claimant under
the Spanish government. In explanation of our former decisions, it is proper.to remark, it is held, that, as between two
claimants under that government, setting up independent imperfect claims, the courts of justice had no jurisdiction; that in
such cases it appertained to the political power to decide to
whom the perfect title should issue; and when this was done,
no controversy could be raised before the courts of justice impeaching the first confirmation.
The only question decided in Chouteau v. Eckhart, 2 Howard, 345, and in Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 Howard, 449, was,
that when Congress confirmed and completed an imperfect"
qlaim, and then confirmed another and differefit claim for
the same land, the older confirmation defeated the younger
one; nor could a court of justice go behind the first confirmation, and ascertain from facts and title papers which claimant
had the better original equity. That if this was allowed, then
the first confirmation could be overthrown by the courts; and
the a6tion of the political department (in all cases of double
confirmation) would have no conclusive force when the courts
were resorted to.
In the present case, the plaintiff's right of recovery cannot
be questioned on the face of his title; and the controversy
depends on the defendant's claim of title. In 1808, Sarpy recovered a judgment against Clamorgan in the District Court
at St. Louis, for $ 2,393. The objection to the judgment
is, that no process seems to have been served on Clamorgan,
-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

371

Landes v. Brant.

and it is proved that he was absent in Mexico at the time; but
the record of the judgment states, that "now at this day came
the parties by their attorneys, and neither of said parties requiring a jury, but this case with all things relating to the same
being submitted to the court, for that it appears to the court
that said Sarpy has sustained damages," &c. And then a
judgment follows.,
A defendant's being beyond the jurisdiction of a court is not
conclusive evidence that the judgment was'void; he may have
left behind counsel to defend suits brought against him in his
absence, by which means his property could be reached by attaching it; and the proof shows it to be probable enough that
such was Clamorgan's condition when the judgment was rendered. But the validity of the judgment does not depend on
this consideration. If it was voidable for want of notice, and
a false statement on its face, "that the parties appeared by
their attorneys and dispensed with a jury, and submitted the
facts to the court," then it should have been set aside by an
audita~quierela, or on petition and motion; such being the famiiar practice in similar cases.
Furthermore: This suit in ejectment is collateral to the
judgment; and it cannot be impeached collaterally. So the
Supreme Court of Missouri held in 1848, in the case of Landes
v. Perkins (12 Mo. R.,254), on the same title, and a similar record in all respects to that before us, and with the views on this
point there expressed we ent" ly concur.
In the same case it is held that Clamorgan's interest in the
land by virtue of his imperfect Spanish claim was subject to
seizure and sale under execution, according to the then laws
of Missouri; that the proceeding was not void, but passed to
the purchaser at execution sale all the title that would have
passed from Clamorgan, had he made a quitclaim deed to
McNair, the purchaser.
That such was the force and effect of a regular sheriffs deed
under the local laws of the then Missoilri Territory is not open
to question; nor is it controverted. And the only remaining
consideration on this branch of the case is, whether the sheriff's
deed can be set up as a defence at law, notwithstanding the
confirmation and patent, both of which are of subsequent date
to the sheriff's sale and deed.
The court below held, that the title set up in defence under
the sheriff's sale was Q. valid, legal title; and so charged the
jury; which instruction was excepted to; and this presents
the principal matter of controversy now before us.
Clamorgan's claim to the land sold had existed for many
years before the United States acquired Louisiana. It had

372

SUPREME

COURT.

Landes v. Brant.

been regularly surveyed, by order of the Spanish government,
and the survey was filed with the recorder, according to the
act of 1805; Clamorgan had held possession under the claim
of Dodier, to the extent of his survey, for more than ten consecutive years, before the 20th of December, 1803; he was on
that day in possession, and then a resident of Louisiana.
The second section of the act of March 3, 1807, declares,
that any person thus claiming and holding land shall be confirmed in his title to the tract thus held. The confirmation
was to be made by the commissioners; and by section fourth
their decision was to be final against the United States in
cases within the foregoing description. And section sixth provides that a patent shall issue on a certificate of the Board.
In the case of Landes v. Perkins, the Supreme Court of
Missouri held that the conclusive legal title vested in Clamorgan by the confirmation of 1811; and that, being the date
of the legal title, a court of law could not go behind it; nor
did the confirmation, or patent, relate to any previous step
taken to acquire title; and the sheriff's deed, being a mere quitclaim, did not estop Clamorgan or his devisees from setting
Up the legal title against such a deed. And it is intimated
that a court of equity could be resorted to, and through its aid
the sheriff's sale might be set up by decree.
How far a court of equity would interfere in such a case we
are not disposed to inquire, as it is apprehended that the Supreme Court of Missouri was mistaken in the effect it attributed to the confirmation of 1811, and the patent founded on
it. Clamorgan's petition asking a confirriation (under the act
of 1805) was filed with his title papers with the recorder;
and they were recorded (December 10, 1805).
The imperfect title as then filed was subject to seizure and
sale by execution; the ultimate perfect title demanded and
granted was a confirmation and sanction by the political power of the imperfect title, and gave it complete legal validity;
and to protect purchasers, the rule applies) "that where there
are divers acts concurrent to make a conveyance estate, or
other thing, the original act shall be preferred; and to this
the other acts shall have relation," -as stated in Viner's Abr.,
tit. Relation, 290. The doctrine of relation is well illustrated in Jackson v. M'Michael, by the Supreme Court of New
York, 3 Cowen, 75, and recognized by the Supreme Court
of Missouri in the case of Crowley v. Wallace, 12 TNo R.
145.
Cruise on Real Property (Vol. V. pp. 510, 511) lays down the
doctrine with great distinethess. He says: "There is no rule
better founded inlaw, reason, and convenience than this, that

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

373

Landes v. Brant.

all the several parts and ceremonies necessary to complete a
conveyance shall be taken together as one act, and operate
from the substantial part by relation."
For the purposes of this case, (without proposing to apply
the rule to every other,) we may assume that the first act of
Clamorgan was that of filing his title papers and claim with
the recorder of land titles, according to the fourth section of
the act of March 2, 1805; this was regularly done, and the
papers recorded. He claimed under the second section of the
act of 1805, which was amended by the act of April 21, 1806,
and again by the act of March 3, 1807. As already stated, by
the fourth section of this last act, the decision of the board of
commissioners appointed to investigate such claims is made
final against the United States, and he was entitled to a patent.
His claim was fully within the provisions of the acts of 1805
and 1807.
Applying the doctrine of relation, and taking all the several
parts and ceremonies necessary to complete the title together,
"as one act," then the confirmation of 1811 and the patent of
1845 must be taken to relate to the first act; that of filing the
claim in 1805. On this assumption, intermediate conveyances
made by the confirmee, of"by the sheriff on his behalf, of a date
after the first substantial act, are covered by the legal title, and,
pass that title to the alienee. And on this ground the deed
made by the sheriff to McNair is valid.
But there is another considerbtion equally conclusive in favor
of the sheriff's deed in the present instance. Clamorgan died
in 1814; and by his will devised his lands to his illegitimate
children, under whom the plaintiff Landes claims title. In
1845, a patent issued purporting to convey to Clamorgan, in
fee simple, the land in dispute; according to comm9n law
rules, the patent was void for want of a grantee; and to supply this defect, Congress passed a general law (May 20, 1836),
declaring, "That, in all cases where patents for public lands
have been,. or may hereafter be, issued, in pursuance of any
law of the United States, to a person who had died, or who
shall hereafter die, before the date of such patent, the title to
the land designated therein shall enure to, and become vested
in, the heirs, devisees, or assignees of such deceased patentee,
as if the patent had issued to the deceased person during life."
Of course the assignee by a bonh fide conveyance would
come in before a volunteer, such as an heir or devisee. Here
the assignee of the devisee is suing the alienee of the devisor.
The patent issued in 1845 is the ultimate and conclusive evidence of title in this instance, as the board of commissioners
had no power to grant and communicate the fee held by the
VOL. X.

32

374

SUPREME COURT.
L'andes v. Brant.

United States. Their decision was final, to this extent; the
officers of government were bound to award the patent to
Clamorgan, without any further action on the part of Congress.
But this adjudication does not stand on the footing of cases
where the commissioners were ordered to report, and Congress
reserved the power to confirm the report, and thus to grant the
fee by act of Congress; in such cases, this court has held that
Congress had granted the fee, and that no patent was required
as a further assurance of title. To what description of assignee,
then, did the title enure according to the act of 1836? Necessarily to one claiming, not the legal, but the equitable title, existing when the patent issued; and in him the legal title is
vested by the patent. The same rule was applied in the
case of Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 316. In 1800 a
concession was made to Mordecai Bell; in 1804, Bell conveyqd
to James Mackay; and in 1805, Mackay conveyed to Amos
-Stoddard, whose heirs were the plaintiffs. The claim was filed
with the board in 1808, and in 1836 it was confirmed to Mordecai Bell "and'his legal representatives." This court held, on
the foregoing state of facts, "that when, under the act of 1836,
the report of the commissioners was confirmed to- Bell and his
legal representatives, the legal title vested in him, and enured
by way of estoppel to his grantee, and those who claim by deed
under him2 There was no covenant for title in either the assignment from Bell to Mackay, or in that from Mackay to
Stoddard, each being quitclaim assignments.
So, again, in the case of Bissell v. Penrose, 8 Howard,
317, the same principle was maintained. In August, 1800,
Tillier filed'his claim with the board, and asked a confirmation for 800 arpents; and it continued before the different
boards sitting at St. Louis until 1836, when it was confirmed
by Congress. In 1818, Tillier assigned his claim to Clement
B. Penrose; and' in 1820, Penrose assigned his claim, acquired
from Tillier, to' Mary 13. 'and Anna Penrose, who were the
plaintiffs in the ejectment suit, and who recovered the land,
under their deed of 1820.
In every case when this court has been called on to investigate titles, where conveyances of lands- had been made during
the time that a claim was pending before a board of commissioners, and where the claim was' ultimately confirmed in- the
name of the original claimant, the intermediate assignments
have been upheld agairist the confirmee, and his heirs or devisees, in the same- manner as if he had been vested with the
legal title at the date of conveyance. We are -therefore of
opinion, that the sheriff's deed made to McNair in 1808 must
be supported on this ground also.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

375

Landes v. Brant.

The second objection to the sheriff's deed is, that it was not
recorded when Lanaes purchased from Clamorgan's devisees.
The Circuit Court instructed the jury, that, as between the
devisees and those claiming under McNair, the deed was valid
without recording, but that itwas not valid to defeat a subsequent bondfide purchaser without notice of its existence; and
further instructed the jury, that " the deed on which the plaintiff relies was made in April, 1845, and if the plaintiff then had
actual notice of the deed of 1808, it was valid also as to him,
without having been recorded. And if the jury find that the
defendant Brant was in the open and notorious possession and
occupation of the premises when the deed of 1845 was made,
and had been so for years before that time, continuously holding under the deed of 1808, then this is evidence from which,
connected with other 'ircumstances, the jury may fiild that the
plaintiff had actual notice of the existence of the deed of 1808,
when he took his deed in 1845."
The material objection to the charge is, that other circumstances taken in connection with the adverse holding were required to exist, in the opinion of the court, and. that these circumstances are not enumerated. And our opinion is, that if
more had been required thaut the open and notorious adverse
possession and occupation of the premises, and the court had
given an instruction in general terms as abovs set .forth, it
would be erroneous. If, hdwever, the possession alone was
sufficient, then the general -terms "connected with other circumstances ' were prejudicial to the defendant, and fall within
the general rule "that a man cannot reverse a judgment for
error, unless he can show that the error was to his disadvantage." 3 Bac. Abr., Error,K. 105.
And this brings us to the question, whether open and notorious occupation and adverse holding by the first purchaser,
when the second deed is taken, is in itself sufficient to warrant
a jury or court in finding that a purchaser had evidence before
him of a character to put him on inquiry as to what title the
possession was held under; and that he, the subsequent purchaser, was bound by that title, aside from all other evidence
than such possession and holding. It'is conclusively settled in
England, that open and notorious adverse possession is evidence of notice; not of the adverse holding only, but of thc
title under which the possession is held. Hiern v. Mill, 1 ,
Yes. 120; Daniels v. Davison, 16 Ves. 253; per Eldon, Lord
Chancellor.
And in the United States we deem it to be equally settled.
The cases in New York will be found in Gouverneur v. Lynch,
2 Paige, Ch. R. 300, and in Grimstone v. Carter, 3 Paige,

376

SUPREME COURT.

Philadelphia and Wilmington Railroad Co. v. Maryland.

C&h R:.436, per Walwortb, Chancellor. In Kentucky, in Brown
v. Anderson, 4 Littell; 201, and Buck v.,Holloway, 2 J. J. Marshall, 180. Nor are we aware that a contrary doctrine is held
in any State in the Union. We are therefore of opinion, that
the charge given on this point was correct, so far as the plain-tiffin error is allowed to call it in question.
Th6 next inquiry arises on the refusal of the Circuit Court
to charge the jury that the sheriff's sale made by John K.'
Walker (sheriff), in 1836, was void. The executors of Clamorgan were sued, and a recovery had against them, as executors,
-by Rufus Easton'; and the premises in dispute were sold, and
under this sale the defendant also claims title. That the lands
of the deceased debtor could be seized and sold under the judgment according to the then laws of the State of Vlissouri, we
hold to be free from doubt ; so the Supreme Court of that
State held in the. case of Landes v. Perkins (12 Mo. R.) above
referred to, and in which case all the points in controversy on
this branch of the title were discussed, and in our judgment
properly decided; the opinion there given is in conformity to
the instructions given and refused. in the court below, in this
case, and in which we hold there was io error.
There is no other question presented by the record requiring
examination, and it is therefore ordered that the judgment of
the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court 'of the United States for the District
of Missouri,* and was argued by counsel. On consideration
'whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with
mosts.

THE PHILADELPHIA AND WILMINGTON RAILROAD COPANY, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company was formed by
the union of several railroad companies'which had been-previously chartered by
Maryland, Delaware, and Pennsylvania, two of which wvere the Balmore and
Port Depsit Railroad Company, whose road extended from Baltimore to the
Susquehanna, lying altogether on the west side of the river, and the Delaware and
Maryland-Railroad Company, whose road extended from the Delaware line to the
Susquehanna,
and
lying on the
side of
the river.
Cmaycnandn
eoi
Por
aira
andeast
Baltimore
charter of the
The
exemption
from taxation.

