DECEMBER

TERM, 1860.

109

Hoyt v. The United States.

JESSE

lOYT,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, -.. THE UNITED STATES.

When Treasury transcripts are offered in evidence under the act of March 3, 1797
(1 Stat. at Large, 512), although they are not evidence of the indebtedness of the
defendalt, as to money which comes into his hands out of the -regular course of
official duty, yet they are so when'they arise out of the official transactions of a collector with the Treasury, and are substantial copies of his quarterly returns, rendered in pursuance of law and the instructions of the Secretary.
These transcripts need not contain the particular items in each quarterly return; it
is sufficient if 4hey state the aggregate amount of bonds and duties accruing within the quarter, and refer to an abstract containing the particular items.
This rule can work no surprise upon the defendant, because every item which is liti.
gated must have been previously presented to the accounting officers of the Troas
ury, and been by them rejected. The items must be known, therefore, to the defendant.
The acts of 1802 (2 Star. at Large, 172, § 3) and March, 1822 (3 Stat. at Large, 694,
695, § 3, 7), limit the annual compensation of the collector to a certain sum.
This limitation includes the fees as well as commission. The act of 1838 (5 Stat. at Large, 264) provides that the collector shall return an ac.
count unader oath of these fees to the Treasury, and the act also limits the compensation. The fees, therefore, cannot be claimed in addition to the compensation. In
the case in question, the time of service of the collector was whilst this act was in
force, as it was extended by the acts of 1839, 1340, and 1841, and to 2dMarch-of
that year.
The acts above mentioned do not deprive the collector of his share in flues, penalties,
and forfeitures. He is allowed to claim this share in addition to his annual compensation.
But this share does not include a claim to a part of the duties upon merchandise
- which has been seized, and in order to regain the possession of which the owner has
given a bond for the payment or securities of the duties, as well as for the appraised
value of the merchandise itself. In case (,f condemnation, the collector is entitled
to a share of the proceeds of the merchandise, the thing'forfeited, but not'to a share
of the duties also. These are secured for the exclusive bpnefit of the government.
Nor is a collector entitled to a commission for accepting and paying drafts drawn
upon him by the Treasury Department. The act of 1799 made it his duty to~re-.'
ceive all money paid for duties and pay it over upon the order of the officer anthorized to direct the payment; and the eighteenth section of the act of 1822, and
the act of 1839 (5 Stat. at Large, 349), contain limitations which forbid an allowance beyond the compensation preserbed by law.
The collector does not appear, by the evidence, to have been charged twice with the
amount of unascertained duties at the Treasury Department, and, therefore, the
court properly refused to bubmit the point to the jury.

THIS was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United

States for the Southern District of New York.
The United States brought an action of assumpsit in the
court below against the plaintiff in error. .The declaration
contained four counts; viz. for money lent and advanced; for
money laid out and expended; for money had and received;
and upon an account stated.

The general issue was pleaded

and joined. The cause came on for' trial at the April term,
14-,
before Mr. Justice Thompson and'Judge Betts, when a
,verdict was found for the United States, and a judgment entered upon the verdict on the 7th of lay, 1843, for $ 221,083.39,,
including damages, costs, and charges. A bill of exceptions
was taken during the progress of the trial, which was signed
VOL. x.

10

110

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

by Judge Betts on the 9th of October, 1847, Mr. Justice
Thompson having died in the interval between the trial of the
cause and the time when the bill of exceptions was signed.
The writ of error was sued out on the 3d of February, 1847,
several months before the signing of the bill of exceptions.
Upon the trial, the plaintiffs below introduced evidence to
prove that the defendant was appointed collector of the port
and district of New York, on the 29th day of March, 1838, and
that he ceased to be such collector and went out of office at the
close of the 2d day of March, 1841; and then gave in evidence
certain transcripts under the seal of the Department of the
Treasury of the United States, and thereupon rested the cise
on their part. These transcripts are intended to be statements
made up by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department from the quarterly accounts rendered by the officer with
whom the account is kept, after an examination and adjustment of such quarterly accounts, and the allowance or disallowance of the several items contained therein.
After the counsel for the plaintiffs below had rested their
case, it was objected on the part of the defendant below, that
the said plaintiffs had not shown enough to entitle them to rest
their case, without producing other evidence in support of said
transcripts, because, 1. The law relating to Treasury transcripts, which, under
some circumstances, gives them the effect of evidence, does not
apply to accounts of the description contained in the transcripts
offered.
2. That, in order to constitute the transcripts legal evidence,
they must specify the particular items which are made the
ground of claim, and not aggregated items; a balance, which,
in the present case, makes up the principal part of the claim
contained in the transcripts offered.
3. That the ptatute does not apply to collections made on
account of the government, but to money advanced by it to
public agents.
4. When the ground of claim on the part of the government
arises, not out of payments or advances by it, but out of accounts rendered by a public agent of money collected for the
government, the accounts themselves must be introduced as the
highest evidence.
The court decided that the transcripts were in conformity to
the statute, and were legal evidehce, to which decision the
counsel for the defendant excepted.
The counsel for the defendant then called upon the counsel
for the plaintiffs for the original letters from the defendant to
the First Auditor and Comptroller of the Treasury, under date

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

111

Hoyt v. The United States.

of the 30th June, 1841, which accompanied the defendant's last
quarterly account, and the same not being produced, the defendant, among other matters to maintain the issue on his part,
introduced and read in evidence copies of said letters, in the
words and figures following:" Custom-Hoztse, .vw York, Tane 30th, 1841.
" SIR, - Herewith you will receive, in thirteen packages, the
accounts of the customs of this district from the 1st of January to the 2d of March, in the first quarter of 1841, as per ccount current and memorandum of papers-inclosed, said period
being the termination of my accounts as collector of the district of New York. The account current is prepared by the
auditor of the custom-house, with the exception of the item
of commission for accepting and paying Treasury drafts, which
I have directed to be inserted; this account, as well as other
accounts heretofore transmitted to te Department, has been
drepared in the auditor's office, none of -which have undergone
my personal examination, they having been signed by me when
presented.
"This account, or those which have preceded it, contains
some radical error or errors to a large amount. Where the
errors are to be found, or the best probable mode of undertaking to detect them, I am unable at this moment to determine,
but request that a thorough examination may be made at the
Department, with the view of testing the accuracy of piesent
and past accounts, and I shall direct my efforts to discover
them here.
"At the timd of the passage of the law requiring all money
received on deposit for unascertained duties to be immediately
paid into the Treasury, I received a circular from the Depart.
ment, containing instructions relative to the accounts to be
kept under that law. ' The circular bears date the 13th March,
1839, and, alluding to an account for excesses of deposits, contains this clause: This account has no connection, immediate or remote, with your account of: the customs.'
"The amount I have paid to the merchants for such excesses, and have also credited in the accounts of the customs
to the United States, is. over $ 109,000. I early objected to
this credit, as will be seen by my letter to the comptroller, under date of the 14th of February, 1840, and my mind has never
been satisfied with the reasons assigned by the comptroller in
his letter of April 11th, 1840, for the change in the direction
originally given by the circular referred to. I most earnestly
request that the principle involved in this question may be
carefully examined.

SUPREME

112

COURT.

Hoyt v. The United States.

" The balance of the money which was paid to me under
The suits brought for the
protest amounts to $189,871.17.
for which
as an individual, execution,
same are againstofme
recovery of the
judgments under
upon the recovery
I am liable,

and am compelled to rely upon and wait for the justice of the
government for protection in indemnification.
Coector.
Lteservant,
"J. HOYT,
obeient
"Very respectfully, your
To

JESSE MILLEn ,

Esq.,

First Auditor,

tc."

"Gutstom.Jouse, _New, York, June 30th, 1841.
"S - It was not'untl yesterday, at near three o'clock, that
I procured the signature of Mr. Morgan, my successor in"office,
without
delivered by me to him,
of. bondscould
to t'he abstracts
not be forwarded. I send them
final accounts

which my
to-day to the First Auditor of the Treasury, with a letter, a
copy of which'I now inclose to you as the head of the accounthave to request that you
ing department of the government. heI receipt
of this letter with

will be so good as to acknowledge
its inclosure. I hope by the time the First Auditor shall have

examined" the accounts now sent him, that you will have had

leisure to look at my account of fines, penalties, and forfeitures,
about which I wrote you some months since.
"With reat respect, your obedient servant,
'J. HOYT, Late Collector.
" To WLTE FoawAD, ESQ., Comptroller."
The counsel for the defendant here called upon the counsel

Ior the plaintiffs, in pursuance of notice for that purpose given,
tor the respective quarterly accounts of defendant, rendered to
the Treasury Departmen for his whole term.of office, andthe
same were produced and read in evidence by the defendant.
The acounts introduced are the following, placed in the following order::i. The third quarter accou.rt of 1838.
i. The first quarter account of 1839.
3, The second quarter accouet of 1839.4. The fit quarter account of 1840, including expenditures
yobbin's Reef.
for lighthouse on
5. Statement of fees of office and disbursement, for the year
1839.
6.

hedule of weekly balances to credit of Treasurer.
7. Shedule of Treasury drafts taken up by defendant.
8. Weekly return of collector, Nonember 4th, 1838.
9J.
Hoyt's account with Treasurer, Noveiber 24th, 1838.
10. Weekly return, June.16th, 1838.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Hoyt v. The United States.

These accounts are too voluminous to be inserted, and would
rather perplex than lead to an understanding of the points discussed by the counsel and decided by the court. It is proper,
however, to state, that some-'of the items, credited by the defendant to the United States were for unascertained duties;
and also, that in the schedule of Treasury drafts taken up at
the custom-house, New York, and returned to the Treasurer,
there were many on war and navy warrants.
The counsel for the defendant then put in evidence certain
documents referred to in the quarterly account current of defendant, bearing date *the31st day of March, 1838, and particularly the abstract of bonds, or bond-books, purporting to represent the number and amount of bonds transferred to the
defendant by Samuel Swarhvout, the former collector.
Witnesses were called by the defendant, who testified to certain errors in the amount of bonds purporting to have been
receiyed by Mr. Hoyt of his predecessor in office. These witnesses stated the. circumstances under which the errors were
discovered, and that no examination was made, for want of
time, of any of the bonds, except those received from Mr. Swartwout. That about one hundred thousand bonds were taken
for duties by Mr. Hoyt, while in office, and the time it would
take to test the accuracy of these bonds would be very great.
That the bonds transferred to Mr. .Hoyt by Mr. Swartwout
fdrmed about one tenth part of the subject of bonds.
In the furthei progress of the trial, a witness, Wrn. Moore,
was called for the defendant, for the purpose of showing that
bonds had been abstracted from the custom-house, without
the knowledge of the collector, and that some of them had
found their way to Switzerland, and that the witness, as one
of a commercial house, had paid at the custom-house three
several bonds of the firm of E. & G. Fehre & Co., then in Europe, to the amount of $ 3,290, who had become possessed
of the same without having paid them, and that, long after
such possession, the said firm directed the payment to be
made; and it was made by the house to which witness be.longed.
The counsel for the plaintiff objected to the testimony of this
witness, and the court sustained the objection, and the'counsel
for the defendant excepted.
Testimony was introduced on the part of the defendant, to
the effect that the duties of the collector were such that he
could not make a personal examination of the quarterly accounts, but signed them as made up by his subordinates; that
the defendant had no personal agency in the receipt or disbursement of the money at the custom-house; that it is the
10*

114

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

duty of the naval officer to examine the accounts, and that
this is intended as a check upon the collector's accounts; that
the amotnt of duties on each entry is ascertained.from calculation, for which the cashier must receive either the cash or a
bond; that the entries are scattered through the impost-book
and cash-books, and that it would take a long time to examine
all the entries; that the quarterly accounts are but results, derived from a mass of particulars.
The record contained a series of letters from Mr. Hoyt to the
Treasurer of the United States and different officers of the
Treasury Department, in which he frequently complained of the
rejectioh of particular items of credit in his quarterly accounts,
sometimes maintaining a different view of the law from that
adopted by the Department; particularly in a ]etter dated 14th
November, 1839 to I. N. Barker, wherein he contends that he
is entitled by law to charge fees and emoluments for the whole
year 1838, thohgh hedid not enter upon the duties of his office
till the 29th day of March of that year, and sometimes complaining of the manner in which his accounts were stated at
the Department. These letters were read in evidence for the
defendant.
After which, letters from Mir. Hoyt to the First Comptroller,
dated the 12th and 22d of December, 1842, and the 17th, 26th,
and 28th of January, 1843, were offered in evidence for the defendant. Upon the counsel for the plaintiffs asking the object
in offering said letters, and upon being informed by the counsel
for the defendant that all of said letters related to the naval office
returns under the circular of 15th March, 1839 (except that of
the 25th of Ja nuary), and that the object was to show that
there were no copies of such returns on file in the naval office,
and that the defendant had sought explanation from the comptroller, in the letters referred to, regarding such returns, and
,had received no answers to such letters; and that said letter
of the 25th of January relatied to items in the last transcript,
in regard to which the defendant had also sought information
from the comptroller, and had received no reply: the iounsel
for the plaifitifih objected to the reading of said letters, and the
.couir decided the objection to be well taken, as the defendant
was not bound to go to trial without getting, the explanation,
and the court would not have compelled him so to do, and it
was therefore a waiver of his right. Whereupon fie counsel
for the defendant excepted to such decision.
. It was admitted that the defendant had received as profit on
a storage account, while he was in office, the' sum of 330,000,
for his share of forfeitures.
like amount
and
It the
appeared
by the accounts connected with the Treasury

115

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Hoyt v The United States.

transcripts, that the defendant had given three bonds to the
United States, one dated Mlarch 22d, 1838, one dated 30th November, 1838, and one dated 14th Decembei, 1839.
The court below requested that it might be furnished with a
statement in writing of the claims of both parties, and the
counsel for the respective parties introduced and laid before the
court and jury the follcwing statements.
The plaintiffs' counsel furnished to the court and -jury a
statement of the amount of balance as struck by the comptroller, and the items of the'account rejected by the comptroller,
as follows: -

$

.
226,295.60
Balance of account as certified,
1. Duties claimed as forfeiture for fourth quarter,
1838, and first and third quarters of 1839. Allow
.
5,749.15
.
..
two thirds the amount distributed,
2. Revenue-cutter disbursements, Lieutenants
7.50
.
Brushvood and Shattuck,

3. Overcharge for commissions,

.

4. Revenue-cutter

Lieutenant

Frazier, .

.

disbursements,
.

.

.

.

.

0.5.5

.

62.62

..

254.97

5. Amount overcharged for marker's expenses,
6. Paid Lieutenant Shattuck,
7. George A. Wasson and others,
.
8. Another for same person,

6.06
1,516.33
251.00

.

.
.
.

.

.

9. Expenses paid measurers and gaugers not legal, but allowed because paid under order of Secre9;543.43

tary of Treasury,
.
.
10. Costs paid B. F. Butler,
11. Costs in case of David Haddeq and others,

12. Four cases v. Hoyt suspended,

.

5,229.98

213.03
175.00

.

13. Overcharged for bonds in suit cancelled by
..
.
.
warrant from Secretary of Treasury,
14. Charged in first quartet, 1841. expenses of fire
commissioners,

.

1,203.45
180.50

.

15. Emolument claimed for 1838. The claim
is for whole compensation for part of the year ensuing,'

.

.

..

1,063.84

..

16. Charged by him for fees, ,

-

.

..

36,212.71

17. Amount overcharged for lighthouse disburse;
ments,

.

..

..

70.48

...

18. Commissions for accepting and paying drafts
of Treasurer,

.

.

.

.

..

.

201,580.00

19. Duty on goods seized fok underyaluation, not
credited or accounted for,

14,035.29

The defendant introduced the following statement:-

116

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United. States.

Amount claimed by the United States for official
transcripts,
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
$ 226,295.60
Deduct difference in commission consequent on
¢
n

o fl
32.U0

Apparent claim of United States, .
• $
$ 225,3 32.60
Against which the defendant has shown errors, viz.: Smith, Thurgar, & Co., twice charged, $ 1,703.83
Specific errors in books,
.
3,853.87
Specific errors in quarterly accounts
current, .
.
.in
109,469.05
Amount actually expended in public
business now disputed by the U. States, 17,594.03
Duties part of forfeiture,

.

.

19,784.45

Fees in controversy, $ 1,063.84,
$ 36,212.71, .3..
.
. 37,276.55
Balance exclusive of claim for commission,

.

"

.

5,651.32

225,332.60
Against Vie apparent balance of $ 5,651.32, Ar. Hoyt claims
commissions, $ 201,580.00.
The counsel of the defendant prayed the court to instruct
the jury, among other things, as matters 6f law, as follows: 1. The official transcript and accounts current on which it is
founded are only yrimd facie evidence against the defendant,
and do not preclude him from proving that they do not exhibit
the true state of his liability to the United States.
2. The defendant's letter of 30th June, 1841, is to be read
with, and as a part of, the account current by which it was accompanied,. and he is entitled to the benefit of its contents as
contemporaneous qualifications of the admissions and statemients
contained in'the accounts.
3. The
defendant is at liberty to show that the accounts
were
prepared upon the plan of the instructions of the Treasury Department, communicated to collector under the act of Congress
authorizing .the.Department to regulate the form and manner
'of keeping them.
4. He is at liberty to show how far, and in what particulars,
accounts thus kept and rendered exhibit the character and extent of his liability, and to what extent they answer, and were
intended to answer, collateral purposes.
5. Hc is at liberty to show errors, omissions, or overcharges
in the accounts rende,'ed, or that entries have been suppressed
or iintruly made, or that he is charged with money which has
been wrongfully withheld by subordinates in the custom-house,
or by other persons.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

117

Hoyt v. The United States.

,6. He is not legally responsible to the United States for the
consequence of acts or omissions of other persons, which he
could not by ordinary vigilance have detected and prevented.
7. In defning the degree of vigilance which is to be deemed
ordinary vigilance within this rule, the jury are at liberty to
take into consideration the testimony as to the extent and variety of the details of. the duties of his office, and the difficulty
or impossibility of personal attention on his part to the details
of the accounting department of the custom-houge.
8. To the proof of errors in detail, the defendant is at liberty
to superadd evidence of errors in gross, so far as such proof
-may tend to show that the defendant is charged with a greater
amount of cash than he wad properly accountable for.
9. If the defendant, has proved, to the satisfaction of the jury,
what amount of money came to his own custody or possession
during his whole term of office, and has discharged himself of
this amount, by proving its faithful and appropriate disbursement for account of the United States, this testimony may be
taken into consideration by the jury, as tending to prove that
he is charged with more money than he is properly accountable
for.
10. The defendant is, in this respect, entitled to indulgent
and favorable consideration, as to the character of the proof of
errors in the accounts, if the jury believe that, by the acts or
omissions of others, he was deprived of the intended checks
and means of testing th6 accuracy of the accounts in the cash
returns, and the accounts in the naval office.
11. It is not necessary for the defendant to prove that credit
was claimed at the Treasury Department for errors now shown
in the accounts, where the defence operates by way of traverse
denial, or impeachment of the case in chief of the plaintiffs.
12. By the instructions of the Treasury Pepartment, and
course of business under them, as to the retention and disbursement of the surplus amounts of public money remaining with
the defendant as the banker or fiscal agent of the government,
the duties performed and responsibilities assumed by him are
extra-official, for which the jury may allow him such reasonable compelisation and indemnity as they may find him entitled
to therefor.
•13. The fees of office, under the act of 1799, see. 2, payable by persons concerned in trade and navigation to the collector for defined services, and not forming a deduction from
invoices of the United States in his hands, are not embraced
in the term "emolument," as used in the limitation clauses of
the acts of 1802, ch. 37, and 1822, ch. 107; and consequently
the defendant is entitled to credit for the items in controversy
under this head.

StJPREME

COURT.

Hoyt v. The United States.

14. If the jury believe that the forfeited goods, as to which
one half of the amount of duties is in controversy, were restored
to the claimants upon a stipulation or bond for their value,
estimated as at the place of export, and that this mode of estimating was adopted by the court, on the ground that the
amount of duties constituted a part of their entire value, and
distribution after condemnation ought, in law and in equity, to
be made accordingly, and the defendant should receive credit
for the amounts in controversy under this head.
15. There has been no legal evidence in support of the
claims of the United States, as to the items under this head,
mentioned in the additional or supplemental .adjustment of
28th December, 1842.
16. After the unconditional allowance at the Treasury Department of credits to the defendant in official adjustments of
his accounts, the disallowance and rejection of the same credits
by the accounting officers of the Department in subsequent
adjustments was unofficial, unauthorized, and irregular, and
did-not constitute legal rescission of the credit.
17. Similar payments afterwards made by the defendant, on
the credit of these allowances, and before the receipt of notice
of any change in the views of the Department, should be credited to him, independently of any decision. of the abstract question of their regularity on original grounds.
18. If the defendant, in good faith, paid accounts presented
in due form by officers of the government authorized to present
them, and to receive the amounts, he is not to be held responsible as a guarantor that such amounts were in every instance
strictly chargeable as between such officers and the government, in the abgence of evidence of culpable inattention or remissness on his part.
And the counsel for the plaintiffs insisted to the contrary,
and prayed the court to charge the jury in conformity with the
following propositions of law: I. The collector is the officer who ieceives all the duties; is
consequently chargeable with the whole amount, and can discharge himself from that liability only by showing duty bonds
unpaid, and cash paid to, or legally for, the government.
II. The certified accounts from the Treasiry Department
being made up from the collector's quarterly returns, and
agreeing with the quarterly accounts, except in the items specifically disallowed by the comptroller, are primd facie evidence that the amount stated as the balance is due from the
collector to the government.
III. The items disallowed by the comptroller are the only
items of account in issue, being the only items on which the

DECEMBER TERM,

1850.

119

Hoyt v. The United States.

collector's statement of the amount differs from the comptroller's statement of them.
IV. The collector can discharge himself from the balance
stated by the comptroller, only, 1. By maintaining, by facts or law, the validity of the itemsrejected by the comptroller; or,
2. Proving, by the clearest evidence, error in some other item
in the account with which he charged fiimself in iis quarterly
accounts.
V. There is no evidence given in the cause that impeaches
the accounts, so as to authorize a jury in their verdict to diminish the balance stated by the comptroller, except so far as the
defendant has given clear proof of specific errors.
VI. Items of diitrence not allowable :1. \Vasson's bill, neing rejected items Nos. 7 and 8.
2. Fees paid B. F. Butler, being rejected items Nos. 10, 11,
and 12.
3. Measurers and gaugers' expenses, being rejected item
No. 9.
(The several items rejected by the comptroller, and numbered, in the foregoing statement on the part of the plaintiffs, Nos.
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, being allowed to the defendant by the
jury, under the charge of the court, do not form any part of the
exceptions, and this part of the prayer of the plaintiff's counsel is therefore omitted.)
4. Collector's fees. They are subject to the limitation in the
act of 7th May, 1822, as emoluments of office.
5. Duties on forfeited goods. They are rfot penalty, and
collector is entitled to no part of" them.
6. Commissions for paying drafts: Ist. Paying drafts of the Treasury is a legal. duty, incident
to the office of the collector, and is a service for which the fees
and percentage specified in this act is the only compensation
allowed by law.
2d. The limitation to the emoluments of office precludes any
claim for commission for paying the drafts of government.
Whereupon the court then charged the jury in conformity
with the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth propositions of
law, as above submitted on the part of the plaintifl&, and respecting the items of account contained in the above statement, also submitted by the plaintiffs, the courL charged the
jury that items numbered 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 13, 17, involved no question of law, and the jury would upon the facts determine
whether all or any of them had been properly rejected by the
comptroller; that, as to item 1 in said statement, being a
claim for half the duties upon goods forfeited for undervalua-

120

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

tion, though not a legal claim, the jury should allow it to the
defendant, .inasmuch as it had been distributed, and such distribution sanctioned by the Treasury Department; that they
should also allow to the defendant the items numbered 7, 8,
and .9, as they had been paid by defendant, and as such payments had been sanctioned by the Treasury Department, and
items humbered 10, 11, 12, and 14, as properly chargeable to
the government.
The court further charged the jury, that the item number 15,
ift said statement, was an illegal charge, being a claim to retain
a whole .year's compensation -for a part of a year; that item
.number 16, in said statement, was an illegal charge, being a
charge for fees as something distinct from, and independent of,
the emoluments allowed and limited by law; that item number 18 was an illegal charge, being a claim for commissions
for acceptirig and paying the drafts of the Treasury; and that
item number 19 wis an illegal charge, being a claim for half
th& duties for goods -seized and forfeited for undervaluation;
and that none of said items* numbered 15, 16, 18, and 19,
should be allowed to the defendant in account by the jury.
The court further chrged the jury, that there was one item
in the account of the defendant with the plaintiffs of great imporance, respecting which the defendant contended that he
was charged twice with the amount, and that was an item of
ibout $ 109,000, for the excess of deposits for unascertained
duties. It is the practice of the merchants, when they want
their goods immediately, to deposit with the collector a sum
sufficient by estimate to cover the duties, andwhen the duties
are ascertained, the merchant calls for repayment of any excess
of the deposit over the ascertained duties, which excess is
thereupon paid over by the collector to the claimants. The
whole amount of the -estimated duties deposited having at the
time of the deposit been paid by the collector, under requirement of law, into the Treasury, is creditdd to the collector by
the government in his account, but in that account he is only
charged with the actual duties. The collector repays the excess to the merchant out of his own money, and the go.vernment afte'rwards returns it to him by a warrant from the Treasury, and charges him with that warrant. If the government
had retained the whole sum deposited, and at the same time
had required the collector to pay back to the merchant the excess, there would be some ground to sustain the allegation of
the defendant; but as it is, there is no ground for the allegation of the defendant of a. double charge or error in this sum,
and the jury are wholly to disregard this clairm, and make nb
allowance for it whatever.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Hoyt v. The United States.

The court further charged the jury, that the book of general
accounts, and the cash-book of the custom-house, introdficed
before the jury as evidence by the defendant, were the books
of the defendant, with the keeping of which the plaintiffs had
no connection, and over which they had no control; and that,
if there was any discrepancy between them, it was for the defendant and not the government to explain such discrepancy.
And the court further refused to charge the jury in conformity wxith the points above submitted on the part of the defendant, and in conformity with which the said defendant prayed
the said court to charge the jury, except so far as in the foregoing charge is contained.
And thereupon the said defendant then and there excepted
to so much of the said charge of the said court, wherein the
said court charged the jury in conformity with said 1st, 2d, 3d,
4th, and 5th propositions of law, so as above submitted on the
part of the plaintiffs, and to so much of the said charge of the
said court, wherein the said court charged the jury that the
items numbered 15, 16, 18, and 19, in said statement, so as
above submitted on the part of the plaintiffs, were illegal
charges, and not to be allowed to the defendant in account
with the government; and also to so much of the said charge
of the said court as related to the claim of the defendant to
have the item of $ 109,000, or thereabouts, for excess of deposits for duties over ascertlined duties, allowed him in account,
and as directed the jury to disallow such claim; and also to so
much of the said charge of the said court as related to the book
of general accounts, and the cash-book of the custom-house.
And the said defendant thereupon then and there further excepted to the refusal of the said court (in so far as the said
court did so refuse) to charge the jury in conformity with the
points so as above submitted by the said defendant, and in
conformity with which the said defendant so as above prayed
the said court to charge the jury.
And the said defendant thereupon then and there further excepted to the decision of the said court, in admitting as evidence against the defendant the Treasury transcripts introduced
by the said plaintiffs, and also to the decision of said court in
excluding the testimony of William Moore, a witness introduced by said defendant, and also to the decision of said court
in excluding the letters of defendant dated the 12th and 22d
December, 1842, and 17th, 25th, and 28th January, 1843.
The record contained numerous circulars from the Treasury Department to collectors and receivers of public money.
That of the 9th June, 1837, and extracts from those of 13th
l arch, 1839, and 9th July, 1840, only are inserted, these
11
VOL. x.

122

S UPREMt COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States;

haling been more particularly referred to in the argument of
the case.
arcularinstructians to Collectors of the Customs and Receivers
of the Public Money.
" Treasury Department,June 9th, 1837.
"SIR, - Should all the banks in your vicinity, selected as depositorids of the public money, have suspended specie payments
at any time, so that you can no longer legally deposit in them,
as usual, to the credit of the Treasurer, all public moneys received by you, except .such sums as may bf required to ineet
the current expenses -of your office, the payment of debenture
certificates by collectors, &c., in other words, the sums you
would formerly have placed in bank to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States, will, under the present arrangements,
be placed to his credit, in a separate account, on the books of
your office. They will bd drawn for by him in the following
manner, and no other.
"1st. By the Treasurer's draft on the officer having funds to
his credit, directing the payment, which draft will be recorded
by the Register of the Treasury, who will authenticate the record by his sighature. A private letter of advice will be trans.
ruitted by the Treasurer in each case.
"2d. *By a transfer draft signed as above, and approved b the
signature of the Secretary of the Treasury, for the purpose of
transferring funds to some'-other point where they may be required for the service of the 'government.
"No- deduction whatever is to be made from the moneys
placed by you to the credit of the Treasurer, except in one of
these two modes, until they can be lodged by you with some
legal depositary.
"On payment of any draft, the party to whom, it is paid will
receipt it. You will note, on it the diy of payment ; will
charge it on the same day to the Treasurer, and will transmit
it to him with the return of his account in which it is charged.
In charging these payments, it will be proper to enter each draft
separately, and to state the number and kind of draft, whether
. ransfer, or on Treasury, War, or Navy warrants, and the
amount
"It is also necessary that the Treasurer's accounts be closed
weekly with the conclusion of Saturday's business, and transcripts thereof forwarded in duplicate; one copy to the Secretary of the Treasury, and one to the Treasurer. When the quarter 'of the year terminate$ oft any other day of the week, the
account should be closed on the last day of the quarter, leav-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

123

Hoyt v. The United States.

ing for an additional return the transactions from that time Cb
the close of the week, so that neither the receipts nor payments
of different quarters be included in one return. Punctuality in
transmitting the returns is indispensable.
"To produce uniformity in the manner of making the returns of the Treasurer's account, a form is herewith transmitted. For the purpose of binding, it is requested that they be
made on paper of nearly the same size. Your monthly xeturns
must be rendered to the Department as heietofore.
"When the public money shall have accumulated in your
dollars, you can make a
hands to an amount exceeding special deposit of the same in your name, for safe keeping, in
the nearest bank in which you have heretofore deposited the
public money, and which will receive the same, to be held by"
it specially, subject to the payment of checks or drafts drawn
by the Treasurer of the United States on the officer by whom
the same has been deposited.
" LEVI WOODBURY,

Secretary of the Treasry.1"
Extract from Circilariothe Collectors of the Customs, or per,sons acting as such.
" Treasury Department,
First Comptroller's Offlce, March 13th, 1839.
..... In this spirit I have to inform you that it is deemed
indispensably requisite that you should open an account special
with the Treasurer of the United States, agreeably to the form
annexed, A. Having been required heretofore to keep a separate account of this nature, it will not materially increase 'your
labors. In this account you will pass the moneys referred to,.
as soon as received, to the credit of the Treasurer; and in order
that it may be kept in as simple and clear a form as is consistent with your business operations, I have especially to request
that, in making the debit and credit entries, you will distinguish
the deposits for duties unascertained from duties 'paid under
protest, and both from other moneys, to be denominated cash
received, or placed opposite to the distinctive heads of receipts;
and also designate the kind, number, and amount of each paid
draft issued upon you by the Treasurer.
"But as you will not be able readily to observe this distinclion of moneys in the special account with the Treasurer, or
without great inconvenience and diffliculty, in some cases, adjust the excess of the deposits over the ascertained duties, or
the duties to be refunded as haring been paid under protest,
Which are to be so refunded, if at all, in pursuance of a Treas-

124

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

ury warrant, and upon the order of the Department, according
to the usage that has so long prevailed, I deem it also equally
indispensable that you should keep separate and distinct accounts of them. - the one to be called 'the unascertained duty
account,' and the other ' the protested duty account,' agreeably
-to the forms annexed, B and C. In these accounts, according
as the case -may need, you will enter upon the debit side the
deposit made by the importer, which will be balanced by the
ascertained duty, and the excess paid back to the importer; or
enter on -the debit side the amount of duty paid under protest,
and balance it by the draft of the Treasury in favor of the im1porter ......
There .are other reasons that might be given,
but these are in themselves sufficient. It has, therefore, upon
full deliberation, been decided upon as the more proper course,
and as a substantial compliance with the section, that you
should make exhibit§ of the. sum necessary for the purpose of
refunding excess in deposits to importers to the Secretary of
the Treasury, monthly, to be examined and countersigned by
the na-ial officer, agreeably to form annexed, D, on which the
Secretary will issue his warrant for the same in your favor, as
assignee in fact of the respective importers. You will thus be
put in funds to meet this class of repayments, and you will
-take of each importer duplicate Teceipts, and account quarterly
for the pame at the department.. The form of the account you
are'to render to the First Ai ditor of thie Treasury is annexedi
E. In this account you.will Iharge yourself with the Treasury
-Warrant, and claim credit fol the vouchers produced.
This ac-count has no connection, immediate or rem6te, with your ac-eounts at the customs. In the latter account, you are charged
with the true ascertained amount of duties, but the formei
-arises from the government, out of -abundant caution, taking
under its control for a time the money of individuals, mingled
*withthat of the public, for the better security of its own just
and legal portion ......
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
II.

N. BARKER, Comptroller"

Extract from Circular.
"Treasury Department,JAly 9th, 1840.
c .....
As a depositary of the public money standing to
the credit of the Treasurer of the United States, you will keep
an account current with him, in which you will debit yourself
with all sums received on his account, and credit yourself with
all payments made by his order, and no other ......
"Be pleased to understand thoroughly this principle, that all

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

125

Hoyt v. The United States.

money in your hands to the credit of the Treasurer, is, in fact,
money in the Treasury of tbe United States, and cannot be
used ior any other purpose than the payment of warrants. (or
the drafts thereon) issued in pursuance of appropriations by
CongTess; but these moneys may be transferred from one depositary to any other'depositary, by direction of the Secretary
of the Treasury, under the authority of the tenth section of the
act ......
Respectfully,
"€LEVI WOODBURY,

Secretary of the Treasury.."
The cause was argued by .31r.Evans-and .I&. Walker, for the
plaintiff in error, and by Xr.l Crittenden, Attorney-General, for
the defendants in error
_41r. Evans, for the plaintiff in error.
1. Mr. Hoyt went into office at a peculiar juncture, when great
embarrassment was felt in the business community. He was
made the depositary of the public money, and had many new
duties to perform. Many of the duties of his office he could
neither personally perform nor personally supervise.
This is an action of assumpsit for money had and received
against plain Jesse Hoyt. I. is not upon his official bonds.
The action is founded on an implied contract; whilst that upon
the bond is an express one. This action can only be sustained,
for so much as the plaintiff in error had actually received - and.
if he had failed to collect, the action should have been upon his
bond. It is questionable whether an acion of assumpsit can
be maintained at all against a iublic officer who has given
bonds for his official conduct. 'Trafton et al. v. United States,
3 Story, 646; Perkins v. Hart, 11 Wheaton, 237; 8 Barn. &
Ores. 324 ; 5 Mees. & Wels. 83; Toussaint v. Martinnantp
2 T. R. 105.
But how do the United'Stat.-3 prove their action? Why, by
Treasury transcripts made up in the Treasury Department.
The act of 3d Mareh, 1797 (1 Stat. at Large, 512), makes the
Treasury transcripts evidence in certain cases, arising in the
ordinary transactions of the Treasury, against public officers
for official delinquency. But it does. not apply to accounts like
these. These transcripts arq made up from a variety of other
papers. Those papers should have been produced.- So with
the quarterly accounts. They are made up from a variety of
papers which should have been produced. The aggregated accounts are not evidence, but the items should have been offered
in order that the court might test the accuracy of the government officers. The particulars, and not the results, should have
11*

SUPREME COun mi'.
Hoyt v. The United States.

been before the court. United States v. Jones, 8 Peters, 383;
United States v. Edwards, 1 McLean, 447.
In short, all the evidence that was before the accounting officers should have been before the court.
-2. The judge erred in refusing the first ten instructions requested by the defendant below, and in giving the first five
prayed for by the plaintiffs.
The instructioijs given and refused were upon the ground
that the defendant was responsible in this action for bonds or
money fraudulently abstracted from the custom-house without
his fault or knowledge. The instructions should have left it to
the jury to find how much money of the United States had
been received by the defendant; and whether the same had
been accounted for. Sthreshley v. United States, 4 Craneh, 169.
It was never contemplated by any law tbt the colleptor
should personally perform all the duties, of his office. Thqlaw
provides for other officers, and provides for their eompensation,
and defines their duties. Such persons are, therefore, officers
of the governrment, and the .collector is~not responsible for the
fidelity of these subordinates, beyond what may grow out of
his own neglect in not properly superintending the discharge
of their duties. Dunlop v. Monroe, 7 Cranch, 242-263.
Briscoe et al. v; Lawrence is'direct to the point. Wherever
it is otherwise it is by express enactment, and is so set forth in
the bond. Thus the condition of the Treasurer's bond (1 Stat.
at Large, 66, § 4) is for the faithful performance of the duties
of his office, and for the fidelity of the persons to be by him
,employed. So, by the act of 21st July, 1789 (1 Stat. at Large,
37), the collector is made answerable for the neE-.ee of his dep.uty. So also naval officers and surveyors "vere empowered
to appoint deputies for whom they were to oe held responsible
(1 Stat. at Large, 55). Su
-ervis6rs
of Albany v. Dorr et al.,
25'Wend. 440.
Mr. Evans read the letter of 30th June, 1841, and said that
the quarterly accounts accompanied by that letter were not to
be considered as evidence of indebtedness to the amount therein stated. In that letter Mr. Hoyt states that this account, as
well as others, were prepared in the auditor's office and signed
by him without personal examination. It was therefore nor
admission at all.
The 4th and' 5th instructidns prayed for by the plaintiff, and
given by the judge, were erroneous, in requiring the defendant to
prove by the "clearest evidence" certain parts -of his claim. It
was beyond the province of the court to determine for the jury
what degTee of evidence should satisfy them. Carver v. Astor,
6 Peters, 588 ; Rex v. King, 5 Car, & P. 124. The expressions

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

127

Hoyt v. The United States.

"cleareAt evidence," "clear proof," were calculated to mislead
the jury. 1 Serg. & Rawle, 72; 11 Wend. 83; 7 Wend. 408;
1 Peters, 182 ; 14 Peters, 431 ; 9 Conn. 247 ; 1 Hawks, 190.
The judge erred in the instruction as to the $ 109,000, twice
charged as excess of deposits for unascertained duties. The
question involved was one of fact merely. An excess for duties
is paid into the Treasury. The merchant calls for the excess,
and the collector pays it out of funds in his hands; and the
amount is refunded to him by warrant. The warrant is charged
to him, but he is not credited for the amount which he has
paid. Was it not a matter of fact for the jury to determine
whether the errors of which the defendant complained did not
exist? Cheval v. Bu iham, 2 Peters, 623 ; McLanahan v.
Universal Ins. Co., 1 Peters, 170, 182; United States v. Jones,
8 Peters, 415 ; Greenleaf v. Birth, 9 Peters, 299 ; Scott v. Lloyd,
Ibid. 445; United States v. Tillotson, 12 Wheat. 181, 183;
Corning v. Call, 5 Wend. 253, 257; Long v. Ramsey, 1 Serg.
& Rawle, 72; Reid v. Hurd, 7 Wend. 408, 411.
[MI1 '. Emans also maintained that the defendant was entitled
to one moiety of certain goods seized and forfeited for undervaluation, and cited 1 Stat. at Large, 697; McLane v. Uriited
States, 6 Peters, 404; Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 264; Jones
v. Shore, 1 Wheat. 462; Van Ness v. Buel, 4 Wheat. 74; Opinions of Attorneys-General, 853, 862.]
The judge erred in charging the jury that the claim for commissions for paying the drafts of the Treasurer was an illegal charge. The service which was rendered did not belong to
the duties of his office as collector, but was imposed upon him
by the Treasury Circular of 9th June, 1837, on account of the
embarrassments into which the financial affairs of the government were thrown by the suspension of specie payments by
the banks. And he was not precluded from receiving compensation, therefore, by the law limiting the amount he should receive as collector. The act of 7th May, 1822 (3 Stat, at Large,
695), refers to offices then existing and then known to the law.
The duty of collecting and the duty of disbursing were separate and distinct, and wlere regarded so by the whole spirit of
our legislation.
2L&. Crittenden, Attorney-General, contra.
The first question raised by the other side is whether this
action for money had-and received can be maintained. As
early as 9 Wheaton, 651, a case occurred like this. It was an
action of assumpsit against a defaulting officer. The same
objection was taken there as here, that the suit shbuld have
been on the bond; and the court decided that the official bond

128

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

did not extinguish the simple contract debt arising from a balance of account due to the United States. In that case the
same objection to the Treasury transcripts was made, but the
court decided that they were admissible in evidence. The second section of the act of 3d March, 1797 (1 Stat. at Large, 512),
expressly makes the Treasury transcripts evidence in case of the
is contended on the other side,
delinquency of a public officer. Itthat this only applies to cases where money is paid out of the
Treasury. The case of United States v. Buford, 3 Peters, 12,
is directly against this position. There the money was received
by Buford from Morrison, and it was held to have been received to the use of the United States; and what can be better
evidence against an officer, than a transcript made up at the
Treasury upon his own reports? The transcripts in this case
are founded upon the quarterly official reports of the collector.
But it is said, Why not produce them ? I can only answer,
that the object of the law was to get rid of the necessity of
producing all those voluminous original evidences. It was
intended to simplify the matter. United States v. Eckford's
Executors, 1 How. 251.
But even if this were not so, these very quarterly accounts
were handed over to the defendant, and were given in evidence
by him. But it is complained of, that the judge decided the
fact that the transcripts from the Treasury and the quarterly
accounts agreed. This was a mere matter of eyesight. The
testimony of Moore was properly ruled out. That testimony
was to the effect that one of his correspondents had seen a bond
somewhere in Switzerland, and that therefore bonds had been
abstracted. Well, give his testimony all its weight, and how
is it known that the bonds ought to have been in the Treasury ?
They might have been paid. If such loose evidence is admissible, the Treasury of the United States would be at the mercy
of public officers. There would be no security. So, too, the
letter of Hoyt, dated 30th June, 1841, was properly ruled out.
Thab letter was -written after he had retired from his office and
had become a private citizen, and could no more be made an
available protest against his official admissions in h§ quarterly
accounts, than a letter written at or after the execution of a
bond could be adduced to show the invalidity of the bond.
The same may be said of the letters from Hoyt to the First
Comptroller in 1842 and 1843.
As to the first five instructions granted, the prayer was that
the judge would instruct the jury in conformity with those
propositions. It does not appear that the judge used the particular language of those propositions. But if he did, it
amounts to the same thing. For "clear proof," "satisfactory

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

129

Hoyt v. The United States.

proof," and "the clearest proof," all mean that the thing must
be proved.
The claim for goods forfeited was clearly illegal. Mr. Hoyt,
having received his portion of the proceeds of the bond, now
claims also a portion of the duties. The goods are the things
to which the collector is primarily to look for his compensation.
But the law has provided that, until the suit is decided, the importer may give his bond, and take the goods into possession,
paying the duties as though the goods had been legally entered.
The claim for half duties is only arrived t by argument, not
from the words of the law. There is only one case similar to
this;, that of McLane v. United States, 6 Peters, 404. But that
was a case of prohibited goods, and the court say that duties,
as such, do not accrue upon goods which are prohibited. But
it does not support the proposition that duties do not accrue
upon goods which are foifeited. -Whatever the government
took in that case was in the nature of a penalty.
Next as to the item of $ 109,000, alleged to be twice charged.
It has not been shown where it is twice charged. It is
assumed, not proved. I say that it does not appear to have
been twice charged; and until it is pointed out, it is needless
to discuss it. The practice of the Department is easily understood. The collectors, prior to 1829, retained in their hands
duties paid under protest, or for unascertained duties, under
the idea that they were personally responsible. After 1829 this
practice was changed. Since then, the collector credits the
United States with the amount of unascertained duties, and
pays to the importer (out of moneys in his hands) the excess
when ascertained. For this amount-he receives a warrant from
the Treasury, with which he is charged. And it is contended
that, being charged with the money paid back to the importer, and also with the Treasury warrant, he is thus twice
charged. He receives the money twice, once from -the importer
and once from the Treasury in the shape of a warrant. And
he credits the United States with the money when received from
the importer, and he also credits the Treasury warrant. And
this balances the account. There was consequently no error
in the stating of .the account, and no double charge. But if
there had been, it should have bden presented to the accounting
officers under the act of 3d March, 1797, before a credit could
be claimed for it in this suit.
The charge of commissions for paying drafts has never been
allowed, from the first. The services were not extra-official,
but were properly imposed on him as collector, and for which
the fees and emoluments embraced in the act of 1822 were
the compensation allowed by law. The decision of Mr. Jus-

SUPREME COURT,
Hoyt v. The United States.

tice Story in 6 Peters, which is relied on, is not in point. That
was the case of a man appointed to two offices, and for which
he was to receive two distinct salaries. It was not a commission claimed for the discharge of the duties of a single office.
11r. TValker, in reply and conclusion, referring to the statements of accounts and to the testimony in the record, argued
that Mr. Hoyt never, in fact, received or disbursed personally a
dollar of the public money. The duties were performed by
subordinate officers, and the statements which were signed by
him were prepared by those officers. He could not possibly
verify the accuracy of those accounts. It was physically impossible. If there was any defalcation it was not his.
As to the item of $ 109,000, it is said that it nowhere appears to have been twice charged. Now this was not a single
error, but an aggregate of many errors running through the
quartbrly accounts current. Some were in one account, some
in others. Now these quarterly accounts are considered as admissions by virtue of the letter of 10th Jime, 1841; and yet
we are asked to throw out the letter, and take the account of
which it forms a part. The accounts must stand or fall by the
letter as an admission. 'The excess of deposits for unascertained duties was paid to the merchant by the cashier for the
collector; and was not charged on the cash-book. And by the
circular from the comptroller's office he was directed to enter
upon the debit side of his accounts the whole deposit made by
the importer, which would be balanced by the ascertained duty,
and the excess paid back to the importer. But the excess having been paid by the cashier for the collector, aiid the collector
being charged with the warrant which was to replace the money
thus paid back to the importer, the account would not stand
balanced. He has in fact paid these duties to the importer, and
not received-any thing in return.
I The Attorney-General has insisted thatthe Treasury transcripts were evidence, by virtue of the act of 3d March, 1797.
The authorities show that they are only evidence between the
government and its disbursing officers.
Until 1839, the collector paid moneys on the order, not the
draft, of the Secretary of the.Treasury. By what law has the
collector been shown jo be a disbursing officer of moneys in
the Treasury? Can he be made a disbursing officer for the
War and Navy Departments? If so, then he could be made
the-general disbursifig officer for all the expenditures of the
government. [Mr. Walker. referred to the financial history of
the times, the message of the President, the rep 6 rts of the Secretary of the Treasury, &c.]

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

131

Hoyt v. The United States.

Different auditors had the oversight of different officers; one.
for the Navy, one for the War Department, &c. And they could
only officially certify the accounts which were within their supervision. Now, by making the collector disbursing officer for
these different classes' of duties, can you give the First Auditorpower to certify all these different accounts?
Next as to commissions. [3ir. Walker referred to several acts
of Congress to show that the spirit of the whole legislation on
this subject was to separate the duties of collecting from those
of disbursing the public moneys.] The responsibility of thecollector was increased by a change in the mode of drawing
money by the Treasurer's draft and by a transfer draft. It was
increased by his being obliged to pay drafts of which he had
no previous notice. These services did not appertain to the
office of collector, and were of that description for which compensation has been repeatedly allowed. Gratiot v. United
States, 15 Peters, 336 ; Milner v. Gratz, 16 Peters, 221.
Suppose these duties had been devolved on some bank,
would not that bank be entitled to commissions? Was it not
so before the Independent Treasury A.ct, either that they should
receive commissions, or, what was better, interest on the money
deposited? Now what is the difference whether you select a
person who holds no office, or one who holds an office with
particularly defined duties and a defined salary for those duties ?
The act of 1822 limits the emoluments of an office. What is
an emolument? It is a compensation for the performance of
an official duty. Is a commission for performing duties not
belonging to an office an emolument of that office? The act
of 7th May, 1822 (3 Stat. at Large, 684)-, gave to the collectors
in Florida compensation in addition to fees and emoluments.
The act of 1839 does not apply to this case, first, because
Hoyt was not a djsbursing officbr "in any branch of the public
service, known and recognized b '-tw, or who had given bond
for the performance of such duties." Second, because he was
neither an " offi cer " nor a "person "' whose pay or emoluments
are fixed by law. His compensation as collector was contingent, depending upon the business done at the custom-house.
As to the form of fhe action.. This. claim can only be sustained under that count iithe declaration which is money had
and received. It must have been money. Suppose goods had
been received, could this action be maintained? If not, could
it be maintained for bonds or any thing else than money?
The account is for bonds some of which are not yet due. Nor
do the transcripts alter the case in this respect. They only
stand in place of the voluminous accounts. They do not.
change the form of action. The instrudtion of the judge, which

132

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

required that the defendant should show an error in the quarterly accounts by the clearest evidence, is not defensible. It is
a superlative, and rejects two inferior kinds of evidence, viz.
clear evidence and clearer evidence. Now by what rule of law
is a jury bound to reject clear testimony? Would the same
rule apply to a note of hand in which error should be alleged.?
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court held in and for
the Southern District of New York, in a suit brought by the
United States against the late collector of the port of New
York, to recover a balance claimed in the settlement of his
accounts.
The defendant had been collector from the 29th of March,
1838, to the 2d of March, 1841, and on a final adjustment of
his accounts, at the close of his official term, a balance against
him was found due by the accounting officers of the Treasury
of $ 216,048.07.
The counsel for the plaintiff produced on the trial four
Treasury transcripts containing a statement of his accounts
with the government for the whole period of his term, and
which resulted in the balance above stated.
These transcripts were objected to, as not competent evidence against the defendant of the balance therein found due,
within the meaning of the act of Congress providing for this
species of proof. Act of 3d March, 1797 (1 Stat. at Large, 512).
The secoad section of the act provides, that in every case
of delinquency, where a suit has been brought, a transcript
from the books and proceedings of the Treasury, certified by
the Register, and authenticated under the seal of the Department, shall be admitted as evidence, upon which the court is
authorized to give judgment.
It has been already determined, under this act, that an account stated at the Treasury, which does not arise in the
ordinary mode of doing business in that Department, can derive no additional validity from being certifiecr according to its
provisions; and that the statement can only be regarded as
establishing items for moneys disbursed through the ordinary
channels of the Department, where the transactions are shown
by its books; in such cases the officers have official knowledge
of the facts stated. .(United States v. Buford, 3 Peters, 29.)
That when moneys come into the hands of an individual, not
through the officers of the Treasury, or in the regular course
of official duty; the books of the'Treasury do not exhibit the
facts, nor can they be known to the Department. (Ibid.)
It was held in the United States v. Buford, that a Treasury

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

133

Hoyt v. The United States.
transcript was not competent proof against the defendant in
respect to moneys coming into his hands from a third person
not in the regular course of official business; and that the evidence on which the statement of the account was founded
should have been produced. (See also United States v. Jones,
8 Peters, 375.)
In the case before us, the several items of account in the
transcripts arise out of the official transactions of the defendant, as collector, with the Treasury Department, and were
founded upon his quarterly and other accounts, rendered in
pursuance of law and the instructions of the Secretary. They
were substantial copies of these quarterjy returns, revised and
corrected by the accounting officers as they were received, and
with copies of which the defendant had been furnished in the
usual course of the Department; they present a mutual account of debit and credit, arising out of his official dealings
with the government in the collection of the public revenue.
We can hardly conceive of a case, therefore, coming more
directly within the act of Congress as expounded by the cases
referred to.

In the case of the United States v. Eckford's Executors
(1 How. 2.50), a transcript corresponding with the one in question was held to be competent evidence of the balance of the
account. The point was presented in a certificate of a: division of opinion of the judges.
It has also been objected to these transcripts, that some of
the items included conta,_ a charge against the defendant in
gross; such as the aggregate amount of the duty bonds. and
of duties accruing within the quarter, referenice being mad to
the abstracts for the particular items composing each amount.
This objection was not specially pointed out at the trial, as
the one made then was to the admissibility of the transcripts
generally. If made then, it might have been removed by the
production of copies of the abstracts. , They were called for,
in the course of the trial, in respect to the item of bonds in the

quarterly account of the 31st March, 1838 and produced.

This

affords a full answer to the objection.
But we do not intend to admit that it .would have been
available, if made at the proper time. We agree, that a tran-.
script of a gross balance against the officer would be objectionu
able, as the act of 1797 obviously contemplates, to some extent, a .detailed statement of the accounts -between him and
the government. It must be "a transcript from the books and
proceedings of the Treasury," which doubtless will usually
present such a statement. The amount of the detail, or degree to which the particulars of the account should be carried,
VOL. X.
12

134

SUPREME

COURT.

Hoyt v. The United States.

must necessarily be left open to the exercise of some discretion, as there can be no fixed rule by which to determine it.
The necessity of greater particularity than exhibited here
in the several transcripts, to guard the officers against surprise,
and afford an opportunity for explanation, is not very apparent; for they contain the several items making up the quarterly returns of the party himself, with the addition of such errors
as the accounting officers may have detected in their examination; and with all of which he had been furnished.
If the accounting officers, therefore, have fallen into error,
the officer has had ample time and means for inquiry and
correction. This is true as it respects each quarterly account
rendered.
Besides, by the fourth section of the act of 1797, no claim for
an equitable credit can be admitted, upon the trial, but such as
shall appear to have been presented to the accounting officers
for examination, and by them disallowed, except in case of
vouchers, which the officer was not before able *to procure, or
was prevented from exhibiting, by absence or unavoidable accident.
As a general rule, therefore, every item of the account that
can be the subject of litigation at the trial, on the production
of a transcript, must have been a matter of dispute at the
Treasury Department, and, of course, presenting nothing new
or unexpected to either of the parties.
If the transcript contains the accounts, debits, and credits,
as acted upon at the Department by the accounting officers,
it would seem to be sufficient as it respects the particulars of
the acco .mtrequired by the abt.
The court, is of opinion, therefore, that the several Treasury
transcripts given in evidence were properly admitted.
The comptroller, in the adjustment of the accounts, rejected
nineteen items, that were claimed by the defendant as legal or
equitable credits, which, in the aggregate, exceeded the amount
of the balance reported against him. All of them except four
were either allowed by the court, or submitted to the jury as
a matter of fact involving no principle of law, and, of course,
require no further notice.
Among the items rejected- is a charge of $ 36,712.71, for
fees payable by persons engaged in trade and navigation for
certain services, performed by the collector at each port, such
as giving permits to land goods, clearances, -bills of health,
&c., and which were chai.eable under the compensation act
of 2d March, 1799 (1 Stat. at Large, 705, § 2). These fees
were divided between the collector, naval officer, and surveyor,
in districts in which these several officers are appointed. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

135

Hoyt v. The United States.

collector in the district of New :York was also entitled to a
commission of one quarter of one per cent. on all moneys received on account of duties on goods, or tonnage of vessels.
By an amendment of this act, April 30, 1802 (2 Stat. at
Large, 172, § 3), it was provided, that whenever the anmal
emoluments of any collector, after deducting the expenses incident to the office, shall amount to more than five thousand
dollars, the excess shall be accounted for, and paid into the
Treasury. The act was not to extend to fines, forfeitures, and
penalties, a share of which the collector was entitled to, under
the twentieth section of the act of 2d March, 1799 (1 Stat. at
Large, 697).
The act of 7th March, 1822, reduced this maximum to four
thousand dollars per annum, and the commission to one sixth
of one per cent. on the moneys received. (3 Stat. at Large,
694, 695, §§ 7, 9.)
It is insisted by the defendant, that the limitation in the
aforesaid acts does not refer to or embrate the fees allowed to
him under the act of 1799; and that the collector was still
entitled to apply them to his own use.
At the date of the act of 1802, the compensation of the
fees allowed for
collector was derived from three sources; -1.
the services already referred to; 2. commissions on the duties
received; and 3. a share of the fines, penalties, and forfeitures.
The emoluments of the office were dependent upon the receipts from these sources; and the officer was entitled to apply to his own use the whole amount derived from them.
The provision in this act, therefore, that whenever the
annual emoluments, after deducting the expenses, exceeded
the amount of five thousand dollars, the excess should be accounted for, necessarily embraces in the limitation the fees as
well as commissions belonging to the office, and would have
embraced also the fines and forfeitures, had it not been for
the proviso to the act taking them out of the limitation.
The argument would be quite as strong in favor of excluding the commissions as in the case of fees, as the one can in
no more appropriate sense be regarded as emoluments of office
than the other, and thus the limitation would become a nullity.
These terms denote a compensation for a particular kind
of service to be performed by the officer, ond are distinguishable from each other, and are so used and understood by Congress in the several compensation acts; they are also distinguishable from the term emoluments, that being more comprehensive, and embracing every species of compensation or
pecuniary profit derived fro.n a discharge of the duties of the
office; and such is the obvious import of it in these acts.

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

The act of 1822, so far as respects this question, was imply
a regnactment of that of 1802, with the exception of fixing
the limit of compensation to foutr instead of five thousand
dollars.
But it is unnecessary to pursue 'this argument further, as
there is another view of the question, founded upon subsequent acts of Congress, that is entirely decisive.
The third section of" An Act to provide for the support of the
Military Academy of the United. States for the year 1838, and
for other purposes," passed 7 July, 1838 (5 Stat. at Large, 264),
provides, that the Secretary of the Treasury shall be authorized to pay collectors, out of any money in the treasury not
-otherwise appropriated, such sums as will give to them the
same compensation in the year 1838, according to the impor-tations of that year, as they would have been entitled to re,ceive, if the act of 14th July, 1832, had not gone into effect;
provided, that they shall not receive a greater annual salary or
ompensation than was paid for the year 1832; and provided,
also, that the collectors shall render to the Secretary, under oath,
a quarterly account of all fees and 'emoliiments whatever, by
them received, together with the expenses of their office; and
provided further, that no collector 'shall receive more than
four thousand dollars per annum.
This provision was continued in force for the years 1839,
1840, and down to the 3d of March, 1841, when the mode of
nompensation was materially- changed. (5 Stat. at Large, p.
431, § 2; p. 432, § 7. 6 .Stat. at Large, 815.)
The provision relating to the year 1840 is not to be found
in the public statutes at large, as it is embraced fn the seventh
section of "An Aq4 for the relief of Chastelain" and Ponvert,
and for other purposes," passed 21st. July, 1840. Being a private act, it was not incorporated in the public statutes in
Tittle & Brown's edition of 1846.
It will be seen by the act of 1838, that the collector is bound
to account -to the Secretary of the Treasury for all the fees
and emoluments received by him in the execution of the
duties of his office, and that his annual compensation was
limited, as in the act of 1822, to an amount not exceeding the
sum of four thousand dollars. The same act required that the
naval officers and surveyors should make a return of their fees
and emoluments, and limited the annual amount of their compensation.
During the period, therefore, of the term of office of the defendant as collector of the port of New York, which extended
from the 29th of March, 1838, to the 2d of March, 1841, there
can be no pretence for claiming that the limitation, as re-

DECEMBER TERM. 1850.

137

Hoyt v. The United States.

spected his annual compensation, did not apply as well to the
fees received under the act of 1799, as to commissions or emolurnents of office derived fiom any other source. He was required in express terms to account for them to the Treasury,
the same as in the case of other empluments.
Another item claimed, and which was rejected by the court,
is a charge of $ 14,035.29 for a moiety of the duties received
on goods that were seized, and afterwards condemned for a
violation of the revenue laws.
This question turns upon a construction of sections 89 and
91 of the revenue act of 2d Mlarch, 1799 (1 Stat. at Large,
695, 696).
Section 89 provides, among other things, that the claimant,
after the seizure of the vessel and merchandise, may procure
the same to be redelivered to him on the execution of a bond
with sureties for the payment of the appraised value, together
with the payment or security of the duties, the same as if the
vessel and goods had been legally entered at the customs. If
judgment shall after%%ards pass in favor of the claimant in the
proceedings instituted, the bond shall be cancelled; if against
him, then, unlesF he pays into the court the amount of the appraised value of the ship and goods, together with the costs,
within twenty days, judgment shall be entered on the bond by
a motion in open court, without further delay.
In case no bond is given by the claimant, and the vessel and
goods have been condemned, the same are to be sold at publi6
auction, by the marshal to the highest bidder, and the proceeds paid over "tothe collector. (§ 90.)
Section 91 provides, that all fines, penalties, and forfeitures,
recovered by virtue of the act, after deducting costs and expenses, shall be disposed of as follows: one moiety shall be
paid by the collector into the treasury for the use of the United
States; and the other equally divided between him, the naval
officer, and the surveyor of the port.
It will be seen, tlerefore, by these provisions, in cases of
seizure, where the claimant elects to give a bond, and pay or
secure the payment of the duties, with a view to a redellvery
of the vessel and goods, that, if the same be condemned, he
loses as well the duties paid or secured, as the property seized
and condemned. It is a moiety of these duties which accrued
during the term of the defendant, ai collector, that he claims
as a portion of the forfeitures belonging to him under the'ninety-firsb section of the act.
A conclusive answer to this claim, in the judgment of the
court, is, that the duties thus paid constitute no part of the
proceeds of the goods forfeited, in which only the collector
12*

138

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

has an interest. The proceeds are the appraised value secured
by the bond, or, in case no bond be given, the amount derived
from the sale by the marshal, after the deduction of all proper
charges. The payment of the duties is a condition to the acceptance of the bond, and redelivery of the goods, and is the
voluntary act of the claimant. They- do not enter into the
question of condemnation, nor constitute any part of the forfeiture declared by the act, or the judgment of the court.
It is true, the collector acquires by the seizure an inchoate
right to the goods, which, when followed by condemnation,
becomes absolute to the extent of his share of the forfeiture
(1 Wheat, 462; 4 ib. 74) ; but it is a right only In the good,
themselves, which have been seized and forfeited, - the rem, U
moiety of which, it is admitted, has already been allowed ta
him.
This view is in conformity with the language of the act (§ 91),
which is, that all fines, penalties, and forfeitures, recovered 1y
virtue of this act, shall be disposed of, one moiety to the
government, the other to the collector, to be divided as therein
declared.
The case is not like that of McLane v. The United States,
6 Peters, 405. There the sum in controversy was reserved out
of the fo-feiture by the act for the relief of the owners; and
was regarded by the court as part and parcel of it.
The only doubt that existed was, whether or not the amount
thus reserved should be considered as the lemal duties belongingto the government, or a portion of the forfeiture, the residue
of which had been remitted. The amount r~served was to be
equal to the double duties imposed upon goods imported, under
certain circumstances, by an act which had been passed since
the forfeiture accrued; and the court was of opinion, that duties
mentioned in that act were referred to simply as a measure to
determine the sum to be reserved, and not as duties in the
common acceptation of the term. The amount reserved, therefore, was so much excepted out of the forfeiture remitted, a
moiety of which properly.belonged to the collector.
Another item rejected by the court is a charge by the defendant of $ 201,500 commissions, for accepting and paying
drafts of the Treasury during his term in office.
These commissions are claimed on the ground that tle services required and performed were extra services, not incident
-to the proper legal duties belonging to the office of collector,
and that he is eititled, therefore, to :i reasonable remuneration for the same, beyond the compensation annexed to the
office.
By the act of 2d March, 1799, § 21 (1 Stat. at Large, 642), it

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

109

Hoyt v. The United States.

is provided that the collector shall receive all moneys paid for
duties, and take all bonds for securing. the payment thereof;
and shall, at all times, pay to the order of the officers, who shall
be authorized to direct the payment thereof, the whole of the
moneys which he may receive by virtue of the act, and shall
once in every three months, or oftener, if required, transmit his
accounts to the Treasury Department for settlement.
The Secretary of the Treasury is the head of that Depart.
ment; and- has devolved on him the superintendence and collection of the public revenue; and is the officer properly authorized to direct the safe-keeping and payment or disbursement
of the same. (1 Stat. at Large, 65, 66.)
Under the authotity thus given, and which has been exercised
since the foundation of the government, the Secretary, by a
circular dated 9th June, 1837, in consequence of the suspension
of specie payments by the banks in which the public moneys
had been deposited, directed that all public moneys received
by the collectors, except such as were required for current expenses of the office, &c., should be placed to the credit of the
Treasurer of the United States, in a separate account, on the
books of the customs, and that the same would be drawn for
by the Treasurer's drafts on the collector, from time to time, as
the necessities or the convenience of the goyernment required.
This mode of keeping and paying out the public moneys
received by the, collectors in the different collection districts
continued during a considerable part of the term of office of the
defendant; and, doubtless, very much increased the duties of
the office, its' labors and responsibilities, for which he maywell
be equitably entitled, at the hands of the proper authorities, to
a corresponding compensation; and it is not at all improbable,
that to the necessity of keeping on hand such large sums of the
public moneys as are daily and weekly collected at the port of
New York, and the disbirsement in comparatively small sums,
upon, the drafts of the Treasurer, may be attributed, in part, at
least, the great deficiency in the accounts. It must have required extraordinary diligence and accuracy, and very competent and faithful subordinates, to have prevented it.
But be this as it may, we are unable to perceive that the
duties thus imposed, onerous and responsible as they undoubtedly were, exceeded those legally incident to the. office; or
such as the Secretary was authorized to require as the head of
the Treasury.
The depositaries of the public revenue, as provided by the
act of 23d June, 1836, having failed to comply with the conditions required of them, the duty of regulating the safe-keeping
and disbursement devolved upon the sound discretion of this

140

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt v. The United States.

officer; and indeed, on looking into the provisions of that act,
and the numerous and complicated conditions and restrictions
annexed to the employment of the banks as depositaries, it is
difficult to say, that the authority there conferred to use them
formed any exception to this discretion. If they refused to become depositaries, or failed to comply with the conditions, or,
in the judgment of the Secretary, were unsafe, it was his duty
to provide some other mode for the safe-keeping and disbursement, and until some other was provided, those officers immediately concerned in the receipt and collection of the revenue
must necessarily become the depositaries, and disbursing officers of whatever amount they may have received.
If other depositories be provided by law, or by the regulations
of the Secretary, the money is then deposited there by the collector, in sums large or small, as received, according to the instructions of the Secretary; if not, it remains in their hands
until drawn out, from time to time, as the necessities of the government may require, upon drafts by the same authority In
either case, the collector is but performing the duties enjoined
by the act of 1799, which provides, that he shall receive all
moneys paid for duties, and shall, at all times, pay them over
upon the order of the officer authorized to direct the payment.
The duty is the same in both cases, the nature of the service
the same; and the obligation to perform the service dependent
upon the same authority.
This mode of keeping and disbursing the public revenue has
existed since the foundation of the government. Even when
the banks have been used as depositories, either by act of Congress, or by the regulations of the. head of the Treasury, it was
not, at all times and places, practicable for the different collectors and receivers to make the deposit, and in such cases the
moneys were kept until drawn for by the proper authority.
The Bank of the United States, and the State banks, under
the act of 1836, with some slight exceptions, are the only instances, I believe, in which Congress have undertaken to control the discretion of the Secretary, as to the place in which the
public moneys shall be kept, down to the act of 1840, when a
new system was established, usually known as the sub-treasury.
(5 Stat. at Large, 385.)
With these exceptions, the place of deposit, if any was designated, or the- mode of making payments by the collectors,
depended upon the regulations of the Treasury. And it is not
to be doubted but that it was as much their duty to conform
to the orders of that Department, under such circumstances,
whether for deposit or payment, as in the cases in which the
depositories had been designated by act of Congress. In the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

141

Hoyt v. The United States.

one case, the orders rested upon the general power vested in t&e
Department by the act of 1789; in the others, upon the same
power, modified by the subsequent acts prescribing the particular depositories.
But there is another view of this branch of the cse, which
must not, be overlooked, and that is, wheiher, assuming that
the services of the defendant were extra and beyond those incident to the office, the court erred in rejecting the claim.
The act of 1822, already referred to, as we have seen, limited
the fees and emoluments of the office- to an amount not exceeding the sum of $ 4,000. The act of 1838, and which was
continued through the term of office of the defendant, contained a like restriction, and the eighteenth section of the act
of 1822 further provided, that no collector should ever receive
more than four hundred dollars, exclusive of his compensation
as collector, and the fines and forfeitures allowed by law, for
any services he may perform for the United States in any other
office or capacity.
It would be extremely difficult to say, even if the defendant
is right as to the nature-of the service performed, in the face of
this provision, that a court of law could sanction the compensation claimed, or any other compensation for such service.
The very ground of claim here is that the service was rendered
in a capacity other than that of collector.
The two limitatiois, the one upon his compensation as col
lector, and the other upon compensation for service in any other
office or capacity, while acting as collector, would seem to
close up every "loophole" through which any additional remuneration could be claimed in a court of justice. But this is
not all.
By the eighth section of the act of 3d March, 1839 (5 Stat. at
Large, 349), it is provided, "that no officer in any branch of
the public service, or any other person whose salaries, or whose
pay or emoluments, is or are fixed by law and regulations, shall
receive any extra allowance, or compensation, in any form
whatever, for the disbursement of public money, or the performance of any other service, unless the said extra allowance
or compensation be authorized by law."
It is impossible to misunderstand this language, or the purpose and intent of the enactment. It cuts up by the roots
these claims by public officers for extra compensation, on the
ground of extra services. There is no discretion left in any
officer or tribunl to make the allowance, unless it is authorized by some law of Congress. The prohibition is general,
and applies to all public officers, or quasi public officers, who
have a fixed compensation.

142

SUPREME COURT.
HEoyt v. The United States.

This act, together With the act of 13th August, 1841, Inaking
it penal for any officer charged with the safe-keeping oi disbursement of the public money to convert it to his owp use,
or to neglect or refuse to pay it over upon the authority of the
Secretary of the Treasury, present a system of legislation
against these claims for extra compensation by public officers,
that, if fairly carried into effect, must, for aught we see, effectually extinguish them, except when allowed by the authority
of Congress; and which, it must be admitted, is the proper
constitutional tribunal to decide upon the matter.
Another item in the account rejected by the court is a claim
of $ 109,000, for excess of deposits for unascertained duties,
which it is supposed has been twice charged by the accounting officers against the defendant in the adjustment of his accounts.
The item does not appear among those presented to the
comptroller, and to have been rejected by him, but it is claimed
that the error ig shown upon the face of the account, and,
therefore, available to the defence.
This sum was the subject of comment by the defendant in
his correspondence with the Department at the time of closing
the settlement of his accounts, in June, 1841, but he seems to
have been unable to satisfy himself at that time that the
amount had been twice charged against him.
By the second section of the act of 3d March, 1839 (5 Stat.
at Large, 348), all moneys paid to the collector for unascertained duties were directed to be placed to the credit of the
Treasurer, and to be kept and disposed of as other moneys paid
for duties; and should not be held by him to await the ascertainment of the duties; and, whenever it was shown to the
Secretary of the Treasury that more money had been paid than
covered the actual duties when ascertained, it should be his
duty to draw a warrant upon the Treasurer to refund the
amount

The regulation, under this act, at the Treasury, was, to permit the collector to refund the excess of duties, as they were
acertained, to the importer, keeping a separate account of the
same, and at the end of each month to make a return to the
Department of the amount, accompanied with the vouchers,
when a warrant was drawn in his favor, refunding the amount.
The aggregate amount of this excess thus paid by the collector
during his term, and for which warrants were drawn in his fayor,
constitutes the sum in question, The defendant supposes it
has been twice charged in his accounts, once in the credit given
to the government for theamount of unascerfained duties, and
again by charging him with these warrants. If this were true,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

-143

Hoyt v. The United States.

the error would be obvious, and being so obvious, it is difficult
to believe it could have occurred; or, if it had, that either the
Department or the defendant could not have readily detect.
ed it.
It is, however, sufficient for the purposes of this case to say,
we are unable to perceive any evidence upon the face of the
accounts, or indeed in the record, tending to establish it, and
that the court were right, therefore, in the instructions given to
the jury.
If the whole of the unascertained duties were credited to the
government, then the warrants drawn to reimburse the collector
for the payment of the excess should not be charged in his
customs account. If the credit was for the net or actual duties
only, then it would be proper to charge them. How this may
be, it is impossible to say from any thing. in the record. An
examination at the Treasury Department would, doubtless,
have removed any difficulty in the account.
Another item claimed by the defendant, and rejected by the
court, is a charge of.$ 1,063.8-1 deducted from the maximum
compensation for the year 1838, the service having commenced
on the 29th'day of March in that year, when he entered upon
the duties of his office. The defendant claimed compensation
for the entire year.
The act of 183S, already referred to in another branch of this
case, which provided for the compensation of the collector for
the year, made it virtually a salary office, with the addition of
his share of the fines, penalties, and forfeitures, and the pro rata
allowance, therefore, for the portion'of the year the defendant
held an office was all that could be legally claimed. The case
is distinguishable from that of The United States v. Dickens,
15 Peters, 141.
The question is of no importance now, as it has since been
settled by an express act of Congress. (9 Stat. at Large, 3.)
There were some other questions of minor importance presented in the argument, but which, in our judgment, cannot
materially affect the result, and need not, therefore, be particularly noticed.
After the best colisideration we have been able to give to the
case, we are of opinion that the several" rulings of the court
below were correct, and that the judgment should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On

SUPREME COURT.
Rhodes v. The Steamship Galveston.

consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with damages at
the rate of six per centum per annum.

EX

PARTE : IN THE MATTER OF HENRY NV. RHODES V. THE STEAMsHip GALVESTON, &c.- In Admiralty.

In order to sustain a motion to docket and dismiss a case under the forty-third rule
of this court, it is necessary to show, by the certificate of the clerk of the court
below, that the judgment or decree of that court was rendered thirty days before
the commencement of the tdrm of this court.
Hence, where the certificate of the clerk stated that a final judgment was pronounced at April term, 1850, it was not sufficient, because non constat that the
April term"might not have been prolonged until December, 1850.

MR. CoxE filed the following motion and certificate.

"A certificate being produced from the District Court of
Texas, by which it appears that at the April term, 1850, of
said court a final decree was rendered by said court in fallor
of the defendants "and respondents, and that an appeal from
said'decree was prayed and obtained by the libellants to the
Supreme Court of the United Stiites, - and it appearing that
the record in-said case has not been filed,, Mr. Coxe for said
respondants and defendants moves the court that the said
cause be docketed and dismissed with costs.
1"CoxE for Defendants and Respondents."
" United ,States District Court. - District of Texas.
"Henry W. Rhodes, Libellant, v. The Steamship Galreston,
her Tackle, Apparel, and Furniture, John R. Crane, MAaster.
Charles Morgan, Israel C. Harris, and Henry R. Morgan,
Claimants and Respondents. -In
Admiralty.
"I, James Love, Clerk of the United States District Court for
the District of Texas, do hereby certify, that at the April term,
1850, of said court, a final judgment or decree was rendered
by the court here in the above-entitled cause, in favor of the
defendants and respondents, and that the libellant prayed and
obtained an appeal from the said final decree of the said District Court to the Supreme Court of the United States.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand
[sEAL.] and affixed the seal of said court, this 27th day of
December, A.-D. 1850.
"JAMEs LovE, Clerk."

