Oct. 1878.]

NEWCOmB V. WOOD.

arise. The inference is, that the proviso must be applied to
other land which the act mentions. The object of the act was
to withdraw land continuously possessed and improved by a
purchaser under a 'Mexican grant from the general operation
of the pre-emption laws, and to give to him, to the exclusion of
all other claimants, the right to obtain the title. That it was
competent for Congress to deal with the land as it chose does
not admit *of question. No vested rights in the land could be
acquired by any one until it was open to settlement; nor afterwards, unless the pre-emptor made his entry and obtained a
patent certificate before the passage of the act. Prisbie v.
Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; The Yosemite Valley Case, 15 id. 77.
The term bonafide, as applied to the pre-emption claimant,
does not change the qualifications of such claimant, nor the
conditions upon which, under the general law, a settlement
with a view to pre-emption is permitted. It was intended to
designate one who had settled upon land subject to pre-emption, with the intention to acquire its title, and had complied,
or was proceeding to comply, in good faith, -with the requirements of the law to perfect his right to it. The plaintiff does
not come within this class.
Judgment affirmed.

NEwcOmrB v.

WOOD.

1. The power, with the consent of the parties, to appoint referees, and refer to
them a pending cause, is incident to all judicial administration, where the
right e-xists to ascertain the facts as well as to pronounce the law.
2. Any issues in an action, whether they be of fact or of law, may be so referred
by sect. 281 of the Code of Ohio.
8. A party who goes to trial before referees, without requiring an oath to be
administered to them, waives any objection to the omission of such oath.
4. The fact that an award was signed by only two of three referees was not
called to the attention of the court when their report was confirmed and
judgment rendered thereon. Hedd, that it furnishes no ground for reversing
the judgment.
5. The fifth section of the act of Congress of June 1, 1872 (17 Stat. 197), was not
intended to abrogate the established law of- the courts of the United States,
that to grant or refuse a new trial rests in the sound discretion of the court
to which the motion is addressed, and that the result cannot be made the
subject of review by writ of error.

NEWCOIB V. WOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
Nov. 1, 1872, John Wood, assignee in bankruptcy of Philip
E. Robertson, filed his petition in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio, against
Stephen L. Newcomb, to recover the value of certain goods
sold to the defendant by Robertson, May 6, 1872, within four
months before the latter filed his petition in bankruptcy. An
issue of fact having been made by the pleadings, the case
was, Nov. 18, 1873, by consent of the parties, referred by the
court to Henry C. Hedges, Joseph C. Devin, and A. K. Dunn,
as referees, with power to hear and determine all questions of
law and fact, and report thereon to the court. Neither of the
referees was sworn or affirmed, although the customary oath
or affirmation was not expressly waived or insisted upon.
Both parties were represented by counsel. Jan. 10, 1874, a
report signed by Devin and Hedges was duly filed, awarding
the plaintiff $6,356 and costs. Newcomb filed exceptions to
the report, on the ground that the referees were not sworn or
affirmed well and faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and
to make a just and true report therein, according to the best
of their understanding, as is required by law. The exceptions
were overruled, and the report was confirmed by the court. A
new trial having been refused, a judgment was rendered against
him, which was affirmed by the Circuit Court. He then sued
out this writ, and assigns the following errors :
That the District Court erred, 1. In appointing referees in said cause.
2. In overruling the exceptions to their report.
3. In rendering judgment upon said report, it having only
been signed by two of the persons named as referees, none of
whom were sworn.
4. In refusing to grant a second trial of said action.

Mr. Jeremiah I1. Wilson for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Walter Hf. Smith, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwAY-E delivered the opinion of the court.

A few remarks will be sufficient to dispose of the several
assignments of error in this case.

Oct. 1878.]

NEWCoMB

V. WOOD.

The power of a court of justice, with the consent of the parties, to appoint arbitrators and refer a case pending before it,
is incident to all judicial administration, where the right exists
to ascertain the facts as well as to pronounce the law. Conventio facit legem. In such an agreement there is nothing contrary to law or public policy. The Code of Ohio provides
(sect. 281) expressly "that all or any of the issues in the action,
whether of fact or law, may be referred upon the written consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in court, entered
upon the journal." 2 Swan & 0. 1027. The reference here
in question was made in the latter mode and by virtue of this
authority.
The objection that the arbitrators were not sworn was waived
by the plaintiff in error by appearing and going to trial without requiring an oath to be administered. If the witnesses had
not been sworn, the waiver of that defect under the same circumstances would have been equally conclusive. Edwards,
Referees, 107; Morse, Arbitration and Award, 172; 3l1a 1 nard
v. Frederick, 7 Cush. (Mass.) 247.
Two of the three referees only signed the award, but the
attention of the court was not called to the fact when the report was confirmed and the judgment was entered. The omission was amendable, and non constat but that the amendment
could and would have been made if the objection had been
suggested.. It would be fair neither to the court nor the other
party to permit the objection to be raised here for the first
time. Under the circumstances, it must be held to have been
conclusively waived, and the plaintiff in error cannot be heard
now to insist upon it. Bell v. Bruen, 1 How. 169; Marine
Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252; Klein v. Russell, 19 id.
433; Edwards v. Elliott, 21 id. 532; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92
U. S. 90; Wheeler v. Sedgwiek, 94 id. 1.
The plaintiff in error was not, by reason of the State law,
entitled to a second trial. The agreement to submit the controversy to referees selected or approved by the parties implied
clearly that they intended the award should be final and conclusive. The District Court held this view, and ruled accordingly. It has long been the established law in the courts of
the United States that to grant or refuse a new trial rests in

GAUSSEN V. UNITED 'STATES.

[Sup. ot.

the sound discretion of the court to which the motion is addressed, and that the result cannot be made the subject of review upon a writ of error. We cannot think that Congress
intended by the act of June 1, 1872 (17 Stat. 197, sect. 5), to
abrogate this salutary rule. Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426;
Indianapolis, &c. Railroad Co. v. Horst, 93 id. 291.
Judgment affirmed.

GAUSSEN v. UNITED STATES.
1. The United States, in asserting its rights, is not barred by the laches of its
officers or agents.
2. Duties imposed upon an officer, different in their nature from those which he
was required to perform at the time his official bond was executed, do not
render it void as an undertaking for the faithful performance of those which
lie at first assumed. It will still remain a binding obligation for what it was
originally given to secure.
o. The twenty-first section of the act of Congress of March 2, 1799 (1 Stat. 644),
makes it the duty of collectors of customs "to pay to the order of the officer, who shall be authorized to direct the payment thereof, the whole of the
moneys which they may respectively receive" by virtue of that act. Hdd,
that payments and disbursements of moneys received in his official capacity,
if made by direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, are within the range
of the duty of a collector of customs.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This is an action by the United States against Bessie Elgee
Gaussen, executrix of John K. Elgee, deceased, who was one of
the sureties on the official bond of Thomas Barrett, collector
of the customs for the district of New Orleans, in the State of
Louisiana. It was before this court at its October Term, 1873,
when the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed and the
case remanded for a new trial. United States v. Gaussen, 19
Wall. 198. The mandate was filed in the court below, Jan. 27,
1875. The bond sued on bears date July 6, 1844, and is conditioned as follows: "Now, therefore, if the said Thomas Barrett has truly and faithfully executed and discharged, and shall
continue truly and faithfully to execute and discharge, all the
duties of the said office, according to law, then the above obliga-

