FouR PACKAGES V. UNITED STATES.

Foix

[Sup. Ot.

PACKAGES V. UNITED STATES.

1. On the arrival of the steamship "Hansa" at her pier or dock at Hoboken,
N. J., certain packages were, without a permit or the knowledge of the
customs inspectors, unladen by her officers as the baggage of steerage passengers. The customs officers having there examined the packages, and
found them to contain articles subject to duty, so marked them for identification, and sent them to Castle Garden, New York City, for further examination. Upon such further examination at that place, and the failure to
pay the duties, the packages were sent to the seizure-room at the customhouse. Held, that the seizure was made at Castle Garden, and not on the
pier or dock at Hoboken.
2. It being fully proved that the packages were so unladen, the court below did
not err in directing a verdict condemning them for a violation of the fiftieth
section of the act of March 2, 1799 (1 Stat. 665).

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was an information filed by the United States in the
District Court, May 8, 1873, for the condemnation and forfeiture of four packages, seized by the collector of customs for
the port of New York as the property of Hugo Seitz and Carl
Breidbach, composing the firm of Hugo Seitz & Co., for a
violation of sects. 24, 46, and 50 of the act of Congress approved March 2, 1799 (1 Stat. 627), entitled "An Act to
regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage,"
and sect. 4 of the act of July 18, 1866 (14 id. 178), entitled
"An Act further to prevent smuggling, and for other purposes." The first count of the information alleges that on
April 25, 1873, the collector of the port of New York "seized
on land the property described as four packages containing
human hair and other articles, which he now has within said
Southerm District of New York, as forfeited to the United
States," having been unladen and delivered from the steamship
"Hansa," "within said port and collection district, without a
permit from the collector and naval officer for such unlading
or delivery," contrary to the fiftieth section of the act of March
2, 1799.
To maintain the issue on its part, the United States introduced evidence to show that the" Hansa" arrived at New York
from Bremen, April 23, 1873, and that the claimants came in

Oct. 1878.]

FOUR PACKAGES V.UNITED STATES.

her as steerage passengers, and brought with them the said
packages; that on her arrival she proceeded to her dock or pier
at Hoboken, N. J., and commenced landing her passengers and
their baggage on the dock; that two inspectors, specially detailed by the collector of customs for the port of New York
for the examination of the baggage of steerage passengers, found
said packages on the dock, they having been there unladen
and delivered from said vessel, and claimed by the claimants as
their property; that Seitz and Breidbach went to Germany
in March, 1873, having in contemplation the establishment, on
their return, of a partnership in the business of hair-dressing
and the manufacture and sale of switches; that the human hair
found in said packages was purchased in Germany for use in
the manufacture of said switches, and that the other articles
were fancy goods bought for and at the request of the father of
Briedbach, who was a dealer therein in New York, and were
intended to be delivered to him for sale. It was also proved
that said packages were produced to the officers of the
"Hansa" by the claimants, on engaging passage, as their
baggage, and that they, with the baggage of other steerage
passengers in said vessel, were put upon the dock at Hoboken
by her officers, without any knowledge on their part of the
contents thereof; that said packages having been subsequently
examined on the pier by the inspectors, and found to contain
dutiable articles, were so marked, in order to identify them at
Castle Garden, where the proper officers were detailed for the
purpose of collecting the duty, the baggage of steerage passengers being landed or delivered at that place, and the duties
never being paid or collected on the pier at Hoboken; it was
also proved that neither of said packages nor its contents was
entered upon the manifest of the " H ansa," and that no permit or document in the nature of a permit, either in terms or
legal effect, for the unlading or delivery of said packages
or their contents had been granted by the collector of the port
of New York; and that said packages having been sent to
Castle Garden, were there seized and sent to the seizure-room
at the custom-house in the city of New York. There was
also evidence tending to show that the claimants imported
said merchandise with the intent to secure its landing and

FOUR PACKAGES V. UNITED

[Sup. Ct.

STATES.

delivery without paying the lawful duties thereon. The
claimants thereupon offered in evidence the following papers
as and for permits for the unlading and delivery of their
goods

"CUSTOm

HOUSE,

"NEw YoRK, April 19, 1873.

"The inspector on board the steamer ' Hansa,' from Bremen, will
examine the baggage of all the passengers, and if nothing be found
but personal baggage, permit the same to be landed, and send all
other articles not permitted, in due time, to the public store, 119
Greenwich Street and 24 Trinity Place.
Tno's G. BAKR,
"E. MANN NG, Naval Officer."

-Dep. Collector.

" General Order.
"CUSTOm HOUSE, PORT OF NEW YORK,
" COLLCTOR7'S OFFI E, April 24, 1873.

"The inspector on board the German steamship 'Hansa,' Brickenshime, master, from Bremen via Southampton, will send to
the
public store, No.
Hoboken,
all packages,
when landed, and for which no permit or order shall have been
received by him contrary to this direction, except perishable articles, gunpowder, new hides, explosive substances not permitted for
consumption, which you will retain on board, and send notice of
to this office. The usual weighing, gauging, and measuring to be
done before sending goods under this order.
"J. Nq. P., Hoboken."

"R. WYNKooP, -Dep. Collector.

The plaintiff admitted that said papers came from the official records of the office of the collector of the port of New
York, but claiming that they were issued in connection with
the landing of passengers and their baggage on the arrival of
the "Hansa," and not as the permits required by law fox
unlading or delivering the goods, wares, and merchandise in
suit, objected to their admission in evidence.
The court
sustained the objection and excluded the papers, whereupon
the claimants excepted. The claimants also gave evidence
tending to show their innocence of any intent to secure the
unlading or delivery of the goods without paying the duties
thereon. They thereupon requested the court to charge the

Oct. 1878.]

FoUR PACKAGES V. UNITED STATES.

jury to find for them on the ground that no seizure of the
goods in question had been proved within the jurisdiction of
the court; but the court declined so to charge, and the claimants
excepted. The court thereupon directed the jury to return a
verdict of condemnation of the goods, wares, and merchandise,
in that the same were unladen and delivered from the "Hansa"
without a permit, contrary to the fiftieth section of the act of
March 2, 1799. The claimants requested the court to charge
the jury that the plaintiff could not recover under the fiftieth
section of the act of 1799; that no law of the United States forbids steerage passengers from bringing dutiable articles to this
country with their personal effects as baggage, and that there is
no law for forfeiting goods so brought; that the goods in question were not landed without a permit; that, having been landed
under the direction and supervision of the officers of the customs, or under a baggage or general order permit, they were
not forfeited under the fiftieth section of the act of 1799; that
upon the facts in the case the claimants did not land the goods;
and that in the absence of fraudulent intent on their part in
the importation of the goods the government could not recover.
The court refused so to charge, and also to submit to the
jury as questions of fact whether the goods had been landed
without a permit in violation of said fiftieth section, or whether
they were imported contrary to law.
The jury thereupon returned a verdict condemning the goods,
and judgment of forfeiture was entered thereon; and that judgment having been affirmed by the. Circuit Court, the claimants
then brought the case here.
211r. S. G. Clarke for the claimants.
The information is defective in not alleging a seizure on land
within the Southern District of New York, and is not cured
by the allegation that the collector "now has them within the
district."
Non eonstat, but that the seizure was in New Jersey, and the,
goods then brought within the district.
This is a jurisdictional fact, and necessary to be averred and
proved. Act of 1789, sect. 9, 1 Stat. 77; Keene v. United
States, 5 Cranch, 304; Act of March 2, 1799, sect. 89; The
Tfashington, 4 Blatchf. 101; The _Fideleter, 1 Abb. (U. S.) 577.

FOUR

PACKAGES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Where the jurisdiction does not appear on the face of the
record, it may be taken advantage of in arrest of judgment
or on error. Donaldson v. JHogen, Hemp. 423 ; lhe Washington,
supra.
The evidence shows that, in point of fact, the seizure was
made in the district of New Jersey. It was there that the
customs officers took charge of the goods, and deprived the
claimants of their possession. It is said, however, that having
given a stipulation for the value of the goods proceeded against,
we have admitted the jurisdiction of the court.
But consent cannot give jurisdiction to the Federal courts.
Boby/shall v. Oppenheimer, 4 Wash. 482; Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393. Or to any court of limited jurisdiction,
proceeding in rem. The Mfontague, 4 Blatchf. 461; United
States v. Shares of Stock, 5 id. 231; United States v. Ninetytwo Barrels, 8 id. 480.
The proceedings being in rem, they are void, if it appears that
the court is without jurisdiction.
The taking of the stipulation was as much a void act as any
thing else, unless the seizure was made in the district; the
court had no jurisdiction to do any thing.
As soon as the want of jurisdiction appeared, proceedings
should have been stayed. Fisk v. Union Pacific Railroad,
6 Blatchf. 362; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657.
The evidence offered and excluded was competent to show
a sufficient permit for placing the packages upon the dock.
United States v. Ninety-five Boxes, 19 Int. Rev. Rec. 101.
The goods were not unladen and delivered from the steamship without a permit. United States v. Ninety-five Boxes,
supra; Caldwell v. United States, 8 How. 366.
If the placing of the packages on the dock with all the other
baggage on board the steamship for examination did not forfeit
them, then it is clear that they are not forfeited under the first
.count of the information. Six Hfundred and Fifty-one Chests of
Tea v. United States, 1 Paine, 499; Peisch v. Ware, 4 Cranch,
347.
The fact that the goods were merchandise and not personal
effects can have no bearing upon this question of landing without permit. The penalty of forfeiture is imposed upon goods

Oct. 1878.]

FouR

PACKAGES V. UNITED STATES.

as well as merchandise, and the personal effects are certainly
goods; the fact that they might not be dutiable makes no difference. The Elizabeth, 2 Mason, 407.
Therefore, if these packages were forfeited by being put over
the side of the vessel, so were all the trunks which came over
in the same manner, and likewise the vessel herself.
21r. Assistant-Attorney- General Smith, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Goods imported in any ship or vessel from any foreign port
or place are required by the act of Congress to be landed in
open day, and the express provision is, that none such shall be
landed or delivered from such ship or vessel without a permit
from the collector and naval officer, if any, for such unlading
and delivery. 1 Stat. 665; Gen. Reg. (1857), 145.
Persons violating that regulation are subjected to penalties;
and the further provision is, that all goods, wares, and merchandise so unladen or delivered shall become forfeited, and may be
seized by any of the officers of the customs.
Four imported packages containing human hair and other
dutiable articles were seized on land by the collector; and the
information alleges that the goods were brought into the port
of New York in the steamer therein named, from a foreign
port, and that the four packages were unladen and delivered
from the steamer in which they were imported into the port
without a permit from the collector and naval officer for such
unlading and delivery. Seasonable appearance was entered by
the claimants, and they pleaded the general issue, that the
goods did not become forfeited as alleged, which was duly
joined.
Pursuant to the issue between the parties, they went to trial
before the district judge and a jury. Evidence to prove the
allegations of the information was introduced by the district
attorney, showing that the steamer arrived at the port from a
foreign port at the time alleged, and that the claimants then
and there came in the vessel as steerage passengers, and that
they brought with them the said four packages containing the
described goods; that on the arrival of the steamer within the
port she proceeded to the dock or pier at Hoboken, N. J.,
AMR. JUSTIOE CLiFF ROD

FOUR PACKAGES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

owned by the Bremen line of steamships, to which she belonged, and commenced the landing of her passengers and their
baggage on the dock; that two inspectors of customs, especially
detailed by the collector of the port for the examination of the
baggage of the steerage passengers, in the execution of their
duty found the said four packages upon the said dock, the same
having, without the knowledge of the inspectors, been there
unladen and delivered on said dock from the vessel by the
officers of the vessel or their employ6s, and having been then
and there claimed by the claimants as their property; that the
said four packages were each in a wooden box or case similar
to boxes or cases used for the package of merchandise, with a
cover connected therewith by hinges; that in each box were
some articles of wearing-apparel and other personal effects not
dutiable, but there was besides such articles a large quantity
of dutiable merchandise.
Testimony was also introduced which showed that the claimants, being residents and in business in New York City, went
together from there to Germany the month previous that they
then had in contemplation, on their return, the establishment of
a partnership with each other to carry on the business of hairdressing and the manufacturing of switches, and that the father
of the junior partner is a dealer in fancy goods in New York
City; that the human hair found in the packages was purchased in Germany to be used in the manufacture of switches
for sale; and that the residue of the merchandise contained in
the packages was fancy goods bought for and at the request of
the father of the said junior partner, to be brought and delivered to him for sale in his said business.
Proof was also introduced by the district attorney showing
that the packages were produced to the officers of the steamer
by the claimants when they engaged their passage, as their
baggage, and that the packages were unladen by the officers of
the steamer and put upon the dock at the place of landing as
such, without knowledge of their contents by the officers, with
other baggage of the steerage passengers.
Two of the packages were opened and examined at the place
where they were unladen; and it being found that each contained dutiable goods not on the manifest, the inspectors placed

Oct. 1878.]

Four PACKAGES

V. UNITED STATES.

upon each of the four packages the usual marks to show that
they had not been passed, but were to be sent to Castle Garden
for further inspection and for the collection of the duties to
which the same were subject; that no permit or document in
the nature of a permit, either in terms or legal effect, for the
unlading or delivery of the goods had been granted by the collector and naval officer of the port, otherwise than as set forth
in the two exhibits offered in evidence by the claimants.
Those two exhibits-were offered in evidence by the claimants
as the permits required by law for the unlading and delivery
of the four packages in question; but the district attorney objected to the admission of the same as not being the permits
which the act of Congress requires in such a case; and the court
sustained the objection and excluded the same, to which ruling
the claimants excepted. Exceptions were also taken to the
charge of the court. The verdict and judgment were for the
plaintiffs; and the defendants sued out a writ of error and removed the cause into the Circuit Court, where the judgment of
the District Court was affirmed. Though defeated in both of
the subordinate courts, the respondents removed the cause into
this court by the present writ of error.
Three principal errors were assigned, which will be separately considered: 1. That the seizure of the goods in question
was not made at a port within the jurisdiction of the District
Court. 2. That the court erred in refusing to admit in evidence the exhibits offered by the claimants as permits for the
unlading and delivery of the goods. 3. That the court erred
in directing the jury to find a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs.
Much discussion of the first assignment of error is unnecessary, as it is clear that the seizure of the four packages was
made at Castle Garden, where the goods were sent by the inspectors present on the wharf, for final examination. Sufficient
appears to show that the duties in such cases are never collected
on the wharf; that the examination made is only for the purpose of passing the baggage which does not contain any dutiable
articles, and that the baggage which does contain dutiable
goods is uniformly sent to Castle Garden for the collection of
the duties, or to be dealt with as the law directs. Suffice it to
say that no seizure was made on the wharf where the goods

FouR PACKAGES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

were landed, and that the proceeding in sending the goods to
the place where the seizure was made was in all respects correct
and in accordance with the usage of the port. The Propeller
Commerce, 1 Black, 574; 3 Greenl. Evid. (8th ed.), sect. 395;
The Slavers (Kate), 2 Wall. 350.
Due seizure was made in this case at Castle Garden, and consequently the first assignment of errors must be overruled.
Nor does the second assignment of error require any considerable examination, as it is too clear for argument that neither
of the exhibits offered in evidence was a permit for landing and
delivering any package which contained dutiable merchandise.
Opposed to that is the suggestion of the respondents, that two
of the inspectors were present on the wharf when the officers
of the steamer unloaded the packages and placed them with the
other baggage for examination; but it is wholly immaterial
whether the inspectors were present or absent at the moment
the packages were landed from the steamer, as it clearly appears that as soon as the inspectors discovered that the packages
contained dutiable merchandise, they ordered the same to be
sent to the proper place for further inspection.
Taken as a whole, the evidence fully proved that the packages were unladen and delivered without the permit required
by the act of Congress; and inasmuch as there was no opposing
testimony, the direction of the court to the jury to return a
verdict for the plaintiffs was entirely correct. Improvement
Company v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442; Byder v. Wombwell, Law
Rep. 4 Ex. 39; Law Rep. 2 P. C. 235.
Repeated requests for instruction were presented by the
respondents, all of which were refused. Some of the rulings
of the court in refusing these requests are also assigned for
error, but it is wholly unnecessary to examine those assignments, as the instructions given disposed of the case.
Judgment affirmed.

