BARNEY v. DOLPH.

[Sup. t

BARNEY V. DOLPH.
After the passage of the act of July 17, 1854 (10 Stat. 806), amendatory of the
act of Sept. 27, 1850 (9 id. 496), commonly known as the Donation Act, a
husband and wife, who, by reason of their residence and cultivation, were,
under the latter act, entitled to a patent from the United States for land in
Oregon, could, before receiving such patent, sell and convey the land, so as
to cut off the rights of his or of her children or heirs, in case of his or her
death before the patent was actually issued.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Oregon.

Ejectment by Dolph against Barney, for certain land in Polk
County, Oregon, on which John Waymire, a married man, settled, under sect. 4 of the Donation Act of Sept. 27,1850 (9 Stat.
496), and which he and Clarissa his wife, after they had made
and filed in the proper office the requisite final proof of settlement, continued residence, and cultivation, conveyed in fee by
a quitclaim deed, bearing date Dec. 9, 1867, to one Riggs, under
whom Dolph proved title.
Said Clarissa died before the issue of the patent. After its
issue, said John executed a deed for the land to Barney, to
whom, on the same day, Mary, a daughter of said John and
Clarissa, also conveyed her interest in the land.
After Dolph had closed his case, Barney offered in evidence
the deeds so executed to him; but upon Dolph's objection,
the court excluded them, upon the ground that, by the deed to
Riggs, said John and wife, then having full power of alienation, transferred the whole title to the land, and that no interest therein passed on her death to said John or said Mary. To
this ruling Barney excepted. There was a verdict for Dolph;
and the judgment rendered thereon by the Circuit Court for
that county having been affirmed by the Supreme Court, Barney
removed the case here, and assigns for error that the latter court
erred in sustaining the ruling of the Circuit Court.

.Ar. George .H. Williams for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. H. Mitchell, contra.
MR. CmEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The only question within our jurisdiction presented by this

Oct. 1878.]

BARNEY V. DOLPH.

record is, whether after a husband and wife had perfected
their right to a patent for lands in Oregon, under the Donation Act of Sept. 27, 1850 (9 Stat. 496), and after the amendment of July 17, 1854 (10 id. 306), they could, before receiving
the patent, sell and convey the lands so as to cut off the rights
of the children or heirs of the husband or wife, in case of his
or her death before the patent was actually issued.
This depends upon the effect to be given the original act,
when construed in connection with the amendment. The
original act, after providing for a grant to the husband and
wife of six hundred and forty acres of land, one-half to the
husband and one-half to the wife in her own right, declared
that, "in all cases where such married persons have complied
with the provisions of this (the) act, so as to entitle them
to the grant as above provided, whether under the late provisional government of Oregon, or since, and either shall have
died before patent issues, the survivor and children or heirs
of the deceased shall be entitled to the share or interest of the
deceased in equal proportions, except where the deceased shall
otherwise dispose of it by testament, duly and properly executed according to the laws of Oregon;" and then "that all
future contracts by any person or persons entitled to the benefit of this act, for the sale of the land to which he or they may
be entitled under this act before he or they shall have received
patent therefor, shall be void." The amendment of 1854 repealed this prohibition of sales.
The point to be decided is not whether, before the amendment, such a conveyance could have been made, or whether,
if the conveyance had not been made, the children or heirs of
a deceased husband or wife would take by descent or purchase,
or whether the grant from the United States was one which
took effect from the time of the passage of the act, or a subsequent entry and settlement, but whether, after the amendment, the husband and wife held by such a title that, before
patent, but after their right to one had become absolute, they
could sell and convey so as to vest in the purchaser either
a legal or an equitable estate in fee-simple, -legal, if the title
had already passed out of the United States by virtue of the
act of Congress, and a full compliance with its provisions;

BARNEY

v.

DOLPH.

[Sup. Ct.

equitable, if the patent was needed to perfect the grant. The
question is one of legislative intent, to be ascertained by examining the language which Congress has used, and applying it to
the subject-matter of the legislation.
The reason of the exceptional policy of the United States
in respect to the public lands in Oregon is to be found in the
anomalous condition of the inhabitants of that Territory when
the government of the United States exerted positively its
jurisdiction over them. For more than thirty years, under
the operation of treaty stipulations between the two countries
(8 Stat. 249 and 360), the citizens of the United States and
the subjects of Great Britain had been permitted to occupy
jointly the territory afterwards included in that State. They
had no government except such as they had organized "for
the purposes of mutual protection and to secure peace and
prosperity among" themselves.
The actual condition of
affairs is graphically described in Lownsdale v. City of Portland (Deady, 11), by the able and experienced judge of the
district of Oregon, who has been connected with the administration of justice there for more than a quarter of a century,
and was considered by this court in Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall.
402, Lamb v. -Davenport,18 id. 307, and Stark v. Starr, 94
U. S.477. As part of their plan of government, they established a "Ind law," by which free males over the age of
eighteen years were permitted to occupy and hold six hundred
and forty acres of land; and regulations were adopted for designating claims and protecting the occupants in their possession.
While not denying to the United States the ownership of the
soil, the occupants, to all intents and purposes, used and dealt
with the lands they severally claimed as their own.
Finding this to be the condition of affairs, and recognizing
the equitable claims of the inhabitants, Congress, within two
years from the time of the organization of the territorial government, passed the Donation Act, which was framed so as to
conform in a large degree to the regulations of the old system,
and to grant to the original settlers holding under that system
the whole, or a considerable portion, of the lands they had been
occupying and cultivating. Sect. 4 was evidently intended for
the special benefit of this class, and, stripped of details, in

Oct. 1878.]

BARNEY

v. DOLPH.

effect granted to the white settlers then residing in the Territory, over eighteen years of age and citizens of the United
States, or intending to become such, a half-section of land if
single, or a whole section if married, - one-half to the husband
and one-half to the wife, - provided they had resided upon ald
cultivated the land, or should do so, for four consecutive years,
and otherwise conformed to the provisions of the act. Then
follows, in this section, the provision which has already been
cited in respect to the disposition of the property in case of the
death of one of two married persons after they had complied
with the provisions of the act and become entitled to a patent,
but before the patent was actually received by them. The
language used evidently confines this limitation in its effect to
the married persons mentioned in this section.
Sect. 5 made provision for those coming into the Territory
and settling after Dec. 1, 1850, and above the age of twentyone years. It granted them, if single, one hundred and sixty
acres, and if married, three hundred and twenty, - one-half to
the husband and one-half to the wife, - upon the same conditions of residence, cultivation, and conformity to the act specified in sect. 4. Other sections required the settler, within
three months after the survey of the lands had been made,
or, if the survey had been made when the settlement commenced, within three months after the commencement of the
settlement, to notify the surveyor-general of the precise tract
he claimed, and within twelve months to prove to the satisfaction of the same officer that the settlement and cultivation
required by the act had been commenced, specifying the time
of the commencement. At any time after the expiration of
four years from the date of the settlement, whether made
under the laws of the late provisional government or not, the
settler might prove to the surveyor-general the fact of the continued residence and cultivation required; and that being done,
it became the duty of the surveyor-general to issue certificates,
setting forth the facts of the case and specifying the land to
which the parties were entitled, and to return the proofs taken
to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, when, if no
valid objections were found, patents were to issue according to
the certificate, upon the surrender thereof.

BARNEY V. DOLPH.

[Sup. Ot.

Sect. 8 provided that, upon the death of any settler before
the expiration of the required four years' continued possession,
all his rights should descend to his heirs, including the widow,
where one was left, in equal parts, and that proof of compliance with the conditions of the act up to the time of the death
should be sufficient to entitle them to a patent.
The prohibition of sales, although contained in sect. 4, applied to all persons entitled to the benefit of the act, and its
repeal was, under the circumstances, equivalent to an express
grant of power to sell. The prohibition was of the sale, before
patent, of the land to which the settler was entitled under the
act. The repeal, therefore, operated under the circumstances
the same as a grant of power to sell the land even though a
patent had not issued. This, in the absence of any thing to
the contrary, implied the power to convey all the government
had parted with.
When the right to a patent once became vested in a settler
under the law, it was equivalent, so far as the government was
concerned, to a patent actually issued. We so decided in Stark
v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402. The execution and delivery of the
patent after the right to it is complete are the mere ministerial acts of the officer charged with that duty. An authorized sale by a settler, therefore, after his right to a patent had
been fully secured, was, as to the government, a transfer of the
ownership of the land.
We are thus brought to the consideration of the question,
whether such a sale by narried persons, entitled to the benefit
of the fourth section of the act, would transfer to the purchaser
the interest of the children, heirs, or devisees of a husband
or wife, who died after the sale, but before the patent was
actually received. This depends upon whether the repeal of
the prohibition of sales was, in effect, the repeal of the provision in respect to the child, heir, or devisee, in cases where
sales were made.
Repeals by implication are not favored; but if there is a
positive and irreconcilable repugnancy between the old law
and the new, the new must stand and the old fall, even
though the result is reached by implication alone. After
all, the question is one of legislative intent, to be ascertained

Oct. 1878.]

BARNEY

v.

DOLPH.

by an examination of both statutes, the rule being that the
two are to stand, unless the contrary is manifested beyond a
doubt.
As has been seen, the limitation is confined to such married
persons as took under the fourth section of the act, where provision is made for those who, in the language of Judge Deady
(Deady, 11), "had built towns, opened and improved farms,
established churches and schools, and laid out highways," and
who, when the United States assumed exclusive governmental
control of the Territory, were found "engaged in agriculture,
trade, commerce, and the mechanical arts." These, it may
fairly be presumed, were special objects of the bounty of the
government. The prohibition of sales was undoubtedly intended to protect the United States to some extent against
fraudulent claims, and at. the same time to place an obstacle in the way of an improvident disposition of their property by the settlers, under the influence of the new order of
things; but at all times the husband or wife taking under
sect. 4 could cut off a child or heir by will. The prohibition
was in respect to sales, and the power to devise was expressly
given this class of beneficiaries. It is clear, therefore, that the
limitation was not intended altogether for the benefit of children oi heirs.
The delay which necessarily attended the delivery of the
patents, after settlers had become entitled to them under the
law, oftentimes operated with great hardship upon those whom
Congress intended to assist. In view of this, after the expiration of nearly four years from its enactment, when the government needed no more time for the detection of frauds, and the
people had become accustomed to their change of circumstances,
the prohibition of sales was removed, evidently in the interest
of the settlers. After this, confessedly, all who had perfected
their right to a patent for the lands they had occupied and cultivated for the requisite length of time, other than the married
beneficiaries under sect. 4, could sell and convey to the purchaser an indefeasible estate; and there certainly does not seem
to be any good reason why these special objects of regard
should be made an exception to this general rule. It was a
part of the original donation system to keep all the donated
VOL. V1I.

42

BARNEY v. DOLPH.

[Sup. Ct

lands from sale until the patents issued, but as soon as the
patents were delivered all conditions were withdrawn and all
restraints removed. When the settler, whether married or
single, became an actual patentee, he could sell and convey in
fee. The land was his own, to dispose of as he chose. All
that prevented his doing so before, after his right to the patent
had been perfected, was the prohibition of sale.
After this prohibition was taken away the system was radically changed, and a perfected right to a patent was made as
good as the patent itself for all purposes except the mere convenience of proving title. A grant by Congress, under these
circumstances, of the right to sell the land must have been
intended to authorize those entitled to patents to convey in
the same manner they could if the patent had been actually
delivered. Any provision in the act transferring the title of
the settler, in case of his death before receiving the patent, to
his child, heir, or devisee, is palpably inconsistent with an unlimited power to sell and convey the land. The two cannot
stand together, and consequently the power of sale, which was
the latest enactment, must prevail. In this connection, it is
worthy of remark that the devisee of the settler dying before
patent is as much entitled to take under the law as a child
or heir. Certainly it could never have been the intention of
Congress to allow a settler to defeat a conveyance by a subsequent will. But if the child or heir could take, so must the
devisee.
But there is still another argument in favor of the repeal,
which is equally cogent. There cannot be a doubt that the
great object of the law was to invest the early settlers of that
territory with complete ownership of the land they had resided
upon and cultivated, while the ownership of the soil was in
controversy between the two sovereign claimants. The authority to sell before patent was an additional boon granted by
the government. The retention of the original limitation in
favor of the children, heirs, and devisees must necessarily affect
materially the value of the title which could be conveyed. It
operated against no one except married settlers residing in the
country on or before Dec. 1, 1850. This would necessarily
include those making their claims by reason of possession

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING

Co. v. HYDE

PARK.

taken under the provisional government, and it will not for a
moment be presumed that this specially deserving class of settlers were alone to be incumbered by such a restriction on
their title.
In conclusion, we hold that the conveyance by Waymire and
wife, after they had secured the right to a patent, but before
the patent had issued, pass6d the fee, or an equitable right to
the fee, to their grantee, and consequently that there was no
error in the court below.
Judgment affirmed.

FERTILaznG COMTANY v. HYD

PARK.

An act of the General Assembly of Illinois, approved March 8, 1867, incorporating the Northwestern Fertilizing Company, with continued succession
and existence for the term of fifty years, authorized and empowered it to
establish and maintain in Cook County, Illinois, at any point south of the
dividing line between townships 37 and 38, chemical and other works, "for
the purpose of manufacturing and converting dead animals and other animal matter into an agricultural fertilizer, and into other chemical products,.
by means of chemical, mechanical, and other processes," and to establish and
maintain depots in the city of Chicago, in said county, "for the purpose of
receiving and carrying off from and out of said city any and all offal, dead
animals, and other animal matter which it might buy or own, or which might
be delivered to it by the city authorities and other persons." The works,
owned by the proprietors thereof before they were incorporated, were located
within the designated territory, at a place then swampy and nearly uninhabited, but now forming a part of the village of Hyde Park; and the company
established and maintained depots in Chicago. In March, 1869, the legislature passed an act revising the charter of that village, and granting to it the
largest powers of police and local government; among them, to "define or
abate nuisances which are, or may be, injurious to the public health," provided that the sanitary and police powers thereby conferred should not be
exercised against the Northwestern Fertilizing Company in said village until,
the full expiration of two years from and after the passage of said act.
l
Nov. 29, 1872, the village authorities adopted the following ordinance: "N o
person shall transfer, carry, haul, or convey any offal, dead animals, or other
offensive or unwholesome matter or material, into or through the village of
Hyde Park. Any person who shall be in charge of or employed upon any
train or team car-ying or conveying such matter or material into or through
the village of Hyde Park shall be subject to a fine of not less than five nor
more than fifty dollars for each offence;" and Jan. 8,1873, caused the engineer
and other employds of a railway company, which was engaged in carrying the
offal fn)m the city through the village to the chemical works, to be arrested

