20 4

MCMICKEN V. UNITED STATES.

M6MIoKEN

[Sup. Ct.

V. UNITED STATES.

1. On Dec. 17, 1708, A. applied to the Spanish governor-general for a grant of
six hundred and ten arpents of land, for a plantation and settlement, in the
district of Baton Rouge, three miles from the Mississippi. To the application was annexed a certificate of the local surveyor that in the district of
St. Helena, on the west bank of the Tangipahoa River, beginning at the
thirty-first parallel of latitude, the boundary line of the United States, and
about fifty miles east of the M ississippi, there were vacant lands in which
could be found the arpents front which the petitioner asked for, excluding
whatever might be in the possession of actual settlers. To this application
the surveyor of the district added a further certificate, dated Dec. 22, 1798,
and addressed to the governor, by which he stated that four hundred
and ten arpents might be conceded in the place indicated by the local
surveyor. Thereupon De Lemos, then governor, issued a warrant or order
of survey, as follows: "NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 2, 1799.
"The surveyor of this province. Don Carlos Trudeau, shall locate this interested
party on four hundred and ten arpents of land, front, in the place indicated in the
foregoing certificate, they being vacant, and thereby not causing injury to any one,
with the express condition to make the high-road and do the usual clearing of timber in the absolutely fixed limit in one year; and that this concession is to remain
null and void if at the expiration of the precise space of three years the land shall
not be found settled upon, and to not be able to alienate it within the same three
years, under which supposition there shall be carried out uninterruptedly the proceedings of the survey, which he (the sureyor) shall transmit to me, so as to
provide the interested party with the corresponding title-papers in due form."
Neither survey, settlement, nor improvement of any kind was ever made
by A., or by any one claiming under him. On Feb. 26, 1806, after the cession of Louisiana to the United States, but before this part of it was surrendered by Spain, he procured from the local Spanish surveyor at Baton
Rouge an authority to a deputy surveyor, to survey the tract according to
-ertain general instructions which do not appear, specifying, however, that
it was understood that the warrant was for a certain number of arpents in
front, and that the depth ought to be forty arpents, or four hundred perches
of Paris. Nothing was ever done by the deputy surveyor, and the prosecution of the grant was abandoned by A. and his assigns until long afterwards. Grandprd having, in 1806, become governor, issued a warrant for
a thousand arpents, on a portion of the tract, to one Yarr, whose title was
subsequently confirmed by the United States. Before the country was occupied by the United States, actual settlers had become possessed of the whole
tract, and they were, upon the report of the commission appointed to investigate the titles to land in that region, subsequently confirmed in their holdings by the act of March 3, 1819. A., Sept. 16, 1814, assigned his right
to the land to B., who, Dec. 26, 1824, presented his claim to the lands to
the commissioners, under the act passed May 26, 1824 (4 Stat. 59), by whom
it was rejected. B. having died, C., claiming as his devisee, brought this
suit under the act of June 22, 1860, entitled "An Act for the final adjust.

Oct.

1877.]

MOMICKEN V.UNITED STATES.

ment of land-claims in the States of Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri, and
for other purposes" (12 id. 85), but showed no derivation of title to him
self. Held, 1. That the lands, by reason of the non-performance within the
specified time of the conditions mentioned in the warrant of survey, were
forfeited and became subject to the disposing power of the United States.
2. That, if the legal representatives of B. had a valid claim, C., being a
stranger thereto, and showing no interest therein, would not be entitled to
a decree confirming it in their favor.
2. The said act of June 22, 1860 (supra), although it contains sundry remedial
provisions, and removes the objection arising from the want of title in the
government which was in possession of the territory at the time of making
the grants, if they were otherwise sustainable on the principles of justice
and equity, does not aid claims which from intrinsic defects were invalid in
1815 or 1825.
3. The laws and the proceedings thereunder, touching French and Spanish
grants, mentioned, and the decisions as to the effect thereon of a breach of
the conditions annexed thereto cited and examined.
APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

1r. Willis Drummond and .Hr.Robert H. Bradford for tie
appellant.
The Solicitor- General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The claim to lands in this case origindted as follows: On the
17th of December, 1798, William Coleman, an inhabitant of
New Feliciana, within the bounds of the present State of Louisiana, east of the Mississippi River, applied to the Spanish
governor-general for a grant of six hundred and ten arpents of
land, for a plantation and settlement, in the district of Baton
Rouge, three miles from the Mississippi. A certificate of the
local surveyor was annexed to the application, certifying that
there were vacant lands in the district of St. Helena, on the
west bank of the Tangipahoa River, beginning at the thirty-first
parallel of latitude (the boundary line of the United States), in
which could be found the arpents front which the petitioner
asked for, excluding whatever might be in the possession of
actual settlers. The place thus indicated was about fifty miles
east of the Mississippi. To this application Grandpr6, the
surveyor of the district, added a further certificate, dated Dec.

MCMICKEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

22, 1798, and addressed to the governor, by which he stated
that four hundred and ten arpents might be conceded in the
place indicated by the local surveyor. Thereupon the governor, De Lemos, on the 2d of January, 1799, issued a warrant
or order of survey, in the following terms (as translated) :"NEw ORLEAwS, Jan. 2, 1799.

"The surveyor of this province, Don Carlos Trudeau, shall locate
tLis interested party on four hundred and ten arpents of land, front,
in the place indicated in the foregoing certificate, they being vacant,
and thereby not causing injury to any one, with the express condition to make the high-road and do the usual clearing of timber in
the absolutely fixed limit in one year; and that this concession is to
remain null and void if at the expiration of the precise space of
three years the land shall not be found settled upon, and to not be
able to alienate it within the same three years, under which supposition there shall be carried out uninterruptedly the proceedings of
the survey, which he (the surveyor) shall transmit to me, so as to
provide the interested party with the corresponding title-papers in
due form.
"MANuEL GAYoso DE L mos2'
(Signed)
This is the only title presented, and neither survey nor settlement, nor improvement of any kind, appears ever to have
been made on the pait of the petitioner or any one claiming
under him. The only thing done by him in that direction was
to procure from Pintado, the local Spanish surveyor at Baton
Rouge, on the 26th of February, 1806, after the country had
been ceded to the United States, but before this part had been
surrendered by Spain, an authority to one Ira C. Kneeland, a
deputy surveyor, to survey the tract according to certain general instructions (which do not appear), specifying, however,
that it was understood that the warrant was for a certain number of arpents in front, and that the depth ought to be forty
arpents, or foui humdred perches of Paris; which would make
the tract contain sixteen thousand four hundred arpents, the
quantity now sought to be recovered of the United States. But
nothing was ever done by Kneeland, and the prosecution of
the grant seems to have been abandoned by Coleman and his
assigns until long afterwards. Grandpr6 himself, in 1806 (hay-

Oct. 1877.]

8MOMICKEN V. UNITED STATES.

ing become governor), issued a warrant for a thousand arpents,
on a portion of the tract, to one Robert Yarr, who entered
upon and settled the same; and his title was subsequently
confirmed by the United States. And before the country was
occupied by our government, actual settlers had become possessed of the whole. tract, who were subsequently confirmed in
their holdings by the act of March 3, 1819, upon the report of
the commissioners who had been appointed to investigate the
title to lands in that region. Most of the claims of these
settlers were presented to Commissioner Cosby in 1812, 1813,
and 1814, he being then engaged in ascertaining all claims to
lands in the district west of Pearl River. His report was made
in the early part of 1815 (Amer. State Papers, Public Lands,
vol. iii. pp. 39-76) ; but no claim seems to have been presented
by Coleman for the lands in question.
On the 16th of September, 1814, he assigned his right to the
land to one Charles McMicken, under whom the appellant
claims as devisee. But neither did McMicken present any
claim to the commissioner.
Under the various laws extending the time for presenting
claims several other reports were subsequently made by the
commissioners for the St. Helena district west of Pearl River;
and finally, under an act passed May 26, 1824 (4 Stat. 59),
additional claims were received in that year, and a report was
made in the January following, in which the claim in question
first comes to notice. The petition in this case states that it
was presented to the commissioners on the 26th of December,
1824. With various others, it was rejected by them on the
ground that "the claimants had not complied with the requisitions of the law as regards either habitation or cultivation."
Amer. State Papers, Public Lands, vol. iv. pp. 438, 443. This
report was confirmed by Congress by the act of May 4, 1826.
4 Stat. 159. In 1846, McMicken instituted suit in the United
States District Court of Louisiana, against the United States,
under the provisions of the act of June 17, 1844, for the confirmation of the grant; but this suit was not prosecuted when
called up for trial, and was dismissed, and judgment entered for
the United States. In March, 1873, the present suit was brought
under the act of June 22, 1860, entitled "An Act for the final

INOCMICKEN v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

adjustment of private land-claims in the States of Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri, and for other purposes." 12 id. 85. A
decree was rendered in favor of the United States. McMicken
thereupon appealed to this court.
Two questions arise in the case: first, whether the petitioner
has shown any derivation of title to himself; and, secondly,
whether the claim is a valid one.
The petitioner claims as devisee of Charles MeMicken, under
his will, bearing date in 1855, which is set out in full in the
record. An inspection of this will shows that the tract in question was not named in it, nor devised in any way. It mentions
various other tracts in Louisiana belonging to the testator, but
not this one. It would seem that McMicken had abandoned all
idea of establishing the validity of the claim. As the appellant
does not pretend to have any other title than that of devisee
under this will, it is difficult to see how his petition can be sustained. If this were an action of ejectment, there could be no
question on the subject. But it is contended on the part of the
petitioner that whether his own title be properly deraigned or
not, the court, if satisfied of the validity of McMicken's title,
might make a decree in favor of his legal representatives, for
the benefit of whom it might concern. A decree in this form
is often made against the government in these land cases, wheni
a title is satisfactorily established, and the parties prosecuting
it connect themselves in some way with it, so as to show some
real interest to be protected. Castro v. Hendricks, 23 How.
438; Brown v. Brackett, 21 Wall. 387. But a mere stranger
to the title can hardly ask the court to go that length. It is
not for every one who chooses to take up the prosecution of
such claims, without any connection whatever with the title
sought to be established.
But the more important question in this case is that relating
to the validity of McMicken's title to the land.
We do not understand that the act of 1860 was intended to
make any claims valid which would not have been so before, if
the government making the grant had had the right to make it.
The objection of want of title in the granting power was removed by the act, as to all grants made by a government in possession which were otherwise sustainable on the principles of

Oct. 1877.]

.
V. UNITED STATES.
O MICKEN'

justice and equity; the time for presenting claims was opened
and extended; and actual surveys were dispensed with where
the land could be otherwise identified. These were the principal remedial provisions of the act so far as relates to the
validity of titles. Claims invalid from intrinsic defects in 1815
or 1825 are not helped by the act of 1860. The utmost that
our treaty stipulations ever required was, that we should
sustain titles which would have been sustained by the government from which our title to ih6 territory -was derived.
Nothing more could be fairly asked, and we think that nothing more was intended by Congress to be given, except to
make provision (as it did from time to time) in favor of actual
settlers.
The question then arises, whether the decision of the commissioners in 1824, with regard to this claim, was not correct.
The title was nothing but a warrant or permit to survey, occupy, and improve the land, with a view to a grant when this
should be done, and with an express condition to be void if not
done within three years. Such warrants or permits have invariably been respected by our government, whenever there has
appeared any bona fide attempt to perform the conditions, or
any plausible excuse for their non-performance. But where no
such attempt has been made, and no excuse is offered for not
making it, the claim has been disallowed. Under such circumstances it would be simply asking the government for a gratuity,
a donation without the slightest consideration, to seek a grant
of the land. The government does not stand upon formal conditions. It does not demand that there should have been an
actual survey, if the land can be otherwise identified. The act
of 1860 expressly gives relief not only in case of "orders of
survey duly executed," but where there has been "any other
mode of investiture of title, by separation of the land from the
mass of the public domain, either by actual survey, or definition
of fixed natural and ascertainable boundaries, or initial points,
courses, and distances, by the competent authority prior to the
cession to the United States." The present case may perhaps
come within this category. The description in the warrant,
aided by the usages of the Spanish government with regard to
surveys in Louisiana, may admit of definitd identification on
VO.

VIL.

14

MCMICKEN

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

the ground both as to location and quantity. But the main
defect still remains,- the absence of any attempt at settlement
and cultivation. These conditions have always been regarded
as material by the various commissioners appointed to investigate these titles, and their decisions on the subject have been
uniformly confirmed by Congress. They seem to be in accord
with the laws and usages of the Spanish government; which
laws and usages, from the first, were adopted as the proper criterion for determining the validity of titles emanating from that
government.
These propositions will be corroborated by a reference to
the laws which have been passed and the proceedings which
have been taken in relation to French and Spanish titles in
Louisiana.
That province was acquired by the treaty with France of
April 80, 1803. Spain had ceded it to France by the treaty of
St. Ildefonso, on the 1st of October, 1800; but did not deliver
possession of it until after it was ceded to the United States.
That portion of the territory west of the Mississippi, including
New Orleans, was surrendered to our government on the 20th
of December, 1803; but Spain retained possession of the remainder, east of the Mississippi, for several years longer, under
the pretence that it belonged to West Florida, and made many
grants of land in that time. The United States did not acquire
entire possession of the country till 1813, though portions of it
were occupied in 1810. Amer. State Papers, For. Relations,
vol. ii. pp. 582, 575; vol. iii. p. 397; and Act of Congress, Feb.
12, 1813, 3 Stat. 472. The treaty with France required that
the inhabitants should be protected in their liberty, property,
and religion. In carrying out this stipulation the United
States repudiated the grants of land made by the Spanish
government subsequent to the treaty of St. Ildefonso, except
when made in accordance with the known laws, usages, and
customs of that government; which laws, usages, and customs
had special reference to the colonization and settlement of the
lands, and not to a sale of them for the purposes of revenue or
speculation. Whilst repudiating the grants referred to, as of
no binding obligation upon the United States, a liberal policy was
adopted towards the grantees wherever they had actually set,

Oct. 1877.]

MICMICKEN V. UNJTED STATES.

tled upon and cultivated their lands, and had thus in good faith
complied, or attempted to comply, with the conditions upon
which they were made. In carrying out this policy, it will be
seen that all imperfect titles, such as orders of survey, permissions to settle, and the like, which had annexed to them the
condition of settlement and cultivation of the lands as a prerequisite to a complete title, were rejected, if no attempt was
made by the claimants to perform those conditions.
By the act of March 26, 1804, by which the ceded territory
was organized into the territories of Orleans and Louisiana,
whilst it was expressly declared that all grants made by the
Spanish government, and all proceedings looking to a grant,
made or taken after Oct. 1, 1800, should be deemed absolutely
void, a provision was inserted for the confirmation, to the extent
of one square mile, of all regular grants made to actual settlers,
and of all bonafide acts and proceedings done by them to obtain
grants, if the settlements were actually made prior to Dec. 20,
1803.
By the act of March 2, 1805, actual'settlers who had only
incomplete titles from the French and Spanish governmentsissued prior to Oct. 1, 1800, and who actually inhabited and
cultivated their lands on that day, were confirmed in their titles
thereto, provided that they were heads of families or of age, and
had fulfilled the conditions and terms on which the completion
of the grants was made to depend. The act went further, and
declared that all who, prior to Dec. 20, 1803, with the permission of the proper Spanish officers, and in conformity with the
laws and usages of the Spanish government, had made an actual
settlement of any tract, and did then actually inhabit and cultivate the same, should have such lands to the extent of one
mile square to each person, with the customary addition for
a wife and family. By the act of April 21, 1806, permission
to settle was to be presumed, if the party had commenced an
actual settlement prior to Oct. 1, 1800, and had continued actually to inhabit and cultivate the land for three years prior to
Dec. 20, 1803.
The act of March 23, 1807, further provided that any person
who, on the 20th of December, 1803, had for ten consecutive
years been in possession of a tract of land not exceeding two

MICMICKEN

v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

thousand acres, and not claimed by others, and was on that day
resident in the territory, and had still possession, should be confirmed in his title thereto. The fourth section of this act gave
the commissioners appointed, or to be appointed, for the purpose
of ascertaining the rights of persons claiming land in the territory full power to decide, according to the laws and established
usages and customs of the French and Spanish governments,
upon all claims to lands in their respective districts, when made
by those who were inhabitants of Louisiana on the 20th of
December, 1803, and for a tract not exceeding one league square.
By the eighth section they were to arrange the claims presented
to them in three classes, showing: first, claims which, in their
opinion, ought to be confirmed in conformity with the provisions
of previous acts; secondly, claims which, though not embraced
by those provisions, ought nevertheless, in the opinion of the
commissioners, to be confirmed in conformity with the laws,
usages, and customs of the Spanish government; thirdly, claims
which neither were embraced in the provisions of previous
acts, nor ought, in the bpinion of the commissioners, to be confirmed in conformity with the laws, usages, and customs of the
Spanish government.
By the act of April 25, 1812, that part of the ceded territory
lying between the Mississippi and Perdido Rivers was divided
into two land districts, one on the east, the other on the west
side of Pearl River; and all persons claiming lands by virtue of
grant, order of survey, or other evidence of claim derived from
the French, British, or Spanish governments were required to
deliver the same to the commissioner of the proper district, to
be examined and recorded. By the fifth section of this act the
said commissioners were empowered to inquire into the justice
and validity of the claims presented, and to this end to ascertain in each case whether the lands claimed had been inhabited and cultivated; when surveyed, and by whom and what
authority; and into every other matter respecting the claims
which might affect the justice and validity thereof: and all
evidence thus obtained was to be recorded. These claims they
were to arrange into classes, and report them to the Secretary of
the Treasury; and they were also to report a list of all actual
settlers on the lands not having any claims derived from

Oct. 1877.]

MCMIOKEN V. UNITED STATES.

prior governments, and the time when the settlements were
made.
In pursuance of this act, and others in continuation of it,
reports were made from time to time by commissioners appointed for the purpose. The first report from the St. Helena
district, on the west of the Pearl' River (where the lands in
question are situated), was made in 1815. Amer. State Papers,
Public Lands, vol. iii. pp. 39-76. Others were made Dec. 24,
1819, Nov. 18, 1820, July 24, 1821, Jan. 19, 1825, and Dec. 8,
1825. Id., vol. iii. pp. 436, 465, 505; vol. iv. pp. 538, 473.
These reports presented classified lists or registers of the claims
presented, as required by the act. In the report for 1815, for
example, Register A exhibited a list of claims founded on complete grants derived from either the French, British, or Spanish governments, which, in the opinion of the commissioner,
were valid agreeably to the laws, usages, or customs of such
governments. This list embraced not only grants made before
Oct. 1, 1800, but also grants made after that date whilst Spain
continued in possession of the country. But the latter were
either based on an order of survey made prior to Oct. 1, 1800,
or were followed up by inhabitation and cultivation according
to the laws and usages of the Spanish government. Register B
exhibited a list of claims founded on incomplete titles only,
such as orders of survey, permits to settle, &c., derived, from
either the French, British, or Spanish authorities, which, in the
opinion of the commissioner, ought to be confirmed. The majority of these claims, the commissioner says, were originated
by the Spanish authorities prior to the purchase of Louisiana by
the United States, and, agreeably to the laws, usages, and customs
of the then existing government, would have been completed by
the same power which granted them. Some were issued subsequently to the purchase. In relation to these, the decision in
their favor was not predicated upon the validity of the orders of
survey, but simply upon the fact that the parties had occupied
"and cultivated their lands, and had complied with all the requisitions of the government which at that time exercised ownership over the soil. Amer. State Papers, Public Lands, vol. iii.
p. 66. Registers C and D contained a list of grants and orders
of survey made aftex the cession to the United States, and not

MOM1ICKEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

in the regular way, according to the laws and usages of the
Spanish government, and, generally, not followed by any habitancy or cultivation of the lands. These grants and orders of
survey were mostly of a speculative character, many of them
being for large tracts, obtained at a few cents per acre, and
evidently made for the purpose of getting as much as possible
out of the precarious and disputed title by which the Spanish
government still held possession of the country. The reports
also contained a list of actual settlers upon the lands, who had
no written title to show.
This report, with some qualifications, was confirmed by the
act of March 3, 1819. 3 Stat. 528. The claims founded on
complete grants, and contained in Register A, were all confirmed. As to those founded on orders of survey, permission
to settle, &c., which the commissioners reported in favor of, the
act confirmed such of them as were derived from the Spanish
government prior to the 20th of December, 1803, and when the
land was claimed to have been cultivated and inhabited on or
before that day; and as to the remainder, declared that the
claimants should be entitled to grants by way of donation, not
to exceed twelve hundred and eighty acres to any one person.
The act also made a donation of six hundred and forty acres to
each actual settler who had no written title. This provision
included most of the persons who had settled on the tract in
question in this case.
Subsequent reports and confirmations were made; but the
above is a fair sample of all, and evinces the principles upon
which the government proceeded in confirming titles derived
from the French and Spanish governments. They are cited
for the purpose of showing, and we think they conclusively
show, the fact that the government of the United States has
always regarded the condition of inhabitancy and cultivation,
annexed to imperfect titles derived from the Spanish government in the Louisiana territory, as material and essential, and
as having this character by the laws and usages of that government.
We might have rested for the conclusion thus reached upon
a line of cases decided by this court, and concisely summed up
by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in the able opinion delivered by

Oct. 1877.]

MOMICKEN V. UNITED STATES.

him in the case of Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 558-556.
But as it seems to be thought that every semblance of title or
concession, however stale, and without regard to conditions of
whatever kind, has been revived and validated by the act of
1860, we have preferred to review the original grounds upon
which the policy of the United States government, with regard
to these Spanish and other grants, -was based, and to show what
that policy really was. Mr. Chief Justice Taney, speaking of
these incomplete titles in Louisiana and Florida, with very
accurate knowledge of the subject, says: "These grants were
almost uniformly made upon condition of settlement, or some
other improvement, by which the interest of the colony, it was
supposed, would be promoted. But until the survey was made
no interest, legal or 6quitable, passed in the land. The colonial concession granted on his petition was a naked authority
or permission, and nothing more. But when he had incurred
the expense and trouble of the survey, under the assurances
contained in the concession, he had a just and equitable claim
to the land thus marked out by lines, subject to the conditions
upon which he had originally asked for the grant. But the
examination of the surveyor, the actual survey, and the return
of the plat were conditions precedent, and he had no equity
against the government, and no just claim to a grant until they
were performed; for he had paid nothing, and done nothing,
which gave him a claim upon the conscience and good faith of
the government."
We have been referred to some cases decided by this court
which are supposed to treat the conditions contained in these
titles as of no importance, and as not necessary to be performed. But it will be found that these cases relate to
perfected grants, or that they are otherwise distinguishable
from cases like that now under consideration.
The first is Chouteau's Heirs v. United States, 9 Pet. 147.
The condition in that case related to the number of cattle
which the grantee ought to have, according to Governor
O'Reilly's regulations, in order to be entitled to the lands
claimed by him. The grant had, in fact, been made; and the
court rightly held that this was a preliminary condition, and
that the fact that the applicant possessed the requisite amount

?TCMICKEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sul). Ct.

of property to entitle him to the land he solicited was submitted to the officer who decided on the application, and that
he was not bound to prove it to the court which passed on the
validity of the grant.
The next case is United States v. Aredondo and Others (6 id.
691), in which there was a complete grant of title, with a
condition subsequent that the grantee should establish on
the lands granted two hundred Spanish families, and begin
the establishment within three years, no time being fixed
for its completion. It was begun in the prescribed time,
but its completion was prevented by the change of government. The court held that, in equity, the doctrine of ay pres
would be applied to relieve the grantees from that strict performance which a court of law would rdquire. The performance was held to have become impossible by the act of the
grantor.
The next case is United States v. Sibbald, 10 id. 318. A concession had been made by the governor of East Florida of a
right to build a saw-mill, and of sixteen thousand acres of
land to supply the same with timber, with a condition that
the grant for the land should not take effect until the mill
was erected. The land was duly surveyed, and various
attempts were made to complete the mill, which were frustrated by floods and other accidents. It was not completed
until 1827, some time after the United States had acquired
possession of the country. The court sustained the grant, holding that there was no time limited for erecting the mill, that it
was completed in sufficient time, and that, in equity, it would
have been sufficient to show a performance &ypres. Doubts
were, indeed, expressed whether the court was authorized to
give effect to a condition of forfeiture where the land had been
legally granted; but that point was not necessarily involved in
the case.
Hornsby v. United States, a California case (10 Wall. 224),
is also referred to. There a decree for a concession had been
duly made, with direction for a grant to issue, and the formal
grant had issued accordingly, containing the usual conditions,
that the grant should be approved by the departmental assembly, and that the grantees should solicit the proper judge to

Oct. 1877.]

MfCMICKEN V.UNITED STATES.

give them judicial possession, marking the boundaries with
proper land-marks, &c. The quantity granted was nine square
leagues of the surplus of a certain ranche, after satisfying two
former grants. Judicial possession had not been obtained
when the United States took possession of the territory, which
happened about sixty days after the grant had been made.
This was held a sufficient excuse for not complying with that
condition. The opinion says: "The court cannot inquire into
any acts or omissions by them [the grantees] since those authorities [the Mexican authorities] were displaced. It is not
authorized to pronounce a forfeiture for any thing done or any
thing omitted by them since that period." p. 239. As to the
condition of obtaining the confirmation of the departmental
assembly, it was held that this was the duty of the governor,
and not of the grantee; and that as the conditions were all
conditions subsequent, the estate could not be defeated by the
governor's neglect. It was further held that the grant, in that
case, being a full and perfect grant for so many leagues in a
certain locality, to be surveyed by the officers of the government, could not fail for want of the survey being actually
made: that mere neglect to comply with the conditions did
not work a forfeiture, which could only be set up after a denouncement, or some other formal act indicating an intention on the part of the sovereign to resume proprietorship of
the land.
There is nothing in any of these cases inconsistent with the
assertion of the forfeiture in the case before us. Here no title
was granted: nothing but a permit to inhabit and cultivate as
preliminary to a grant. It might have ripened into an equitable title had the conditions been fulfilled, or even if a fair effort
had been made to fulfil them, or if any plausible excuse could
be offered for their non-fulfilment. But no Attempt even appears ever to have been made to fulfil them; and the government proceeded to make other dispositions of the land. There
is no need of any more formal assertion by the government of
its right to resume the proprietorship. This court has in several cases maintained the doctrine that an actual entry or
office found is not necessary to enable the government to take
advantage of a condition broken, and to resume the possession

MCMICKEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of lands which have become forfeited. It was so held in
United States v. Repentigny's Heirs, 5 Wall. 211; Schulenberg
v. Harriman,21 id. 44; and Farnsworthv. Minnesota & Pacific
Bailroad Co., 92 U. S. 49. In Bepentigny's Case the court
says: "The mode of asserting or assuming the forfeited grant
is subject to the legislative authority of the government. It
may be after judicial investigation, or by taking possession
directly, under the authority of the government, without these
preliminary proceedings. In the present instance, we have
seen the laws have been extended over this tract, the lands
surveyed and put on sale, and confirmed to the occupants or
purchasers, and, in the mean time, an opportunity given to all
settlers and claimants to come in before a board of commissioners and exhibit their claims. This is a legislative equivalent for the reunion by office found." The same doctrine was
applied, in the case of Farnsworth, in relation to a grant of
lands and privileges for the construction of a railroad.
In the case before us, if any act of the government was
necessary to indicate a resumption of the grant for a non-compliance with its essential conditions, nearly all the volumes of
the Statutes at Large, and of the State Papers relating to
public lands for a period of twenty years, could be cited to
show it.
We think that the claim was properly rejected, both by the
commissioners in 1825, and by the court below, and that there
is nothing in the act of 1860 which can be justly relied on for
sustaining it.
Deeree affirmed.

