DAVIE V. BRIGGS.

[Sup. Ot.

The same is true of the agreement alleged to have been made
by the defendants, Blake and Elliott. Its existence is denied
by each of them, and it is not sufficiently proved for the purpose of this action.
This is not, however, so important. Unless the equity of
redemption of Howland was kept alive by the alleged agreement with Taylor, he had no interest which could sustain a
parol agreement by the defendants to buy the property for his
benefit, and to convey to him when required. Such an agreement is one creating by parol a trust or interest in lands, which
cannot be sustained under the Statute of Frauds. It is a naked
promise by one to buy lands in his own name, pay for them
with his own money, and hold them for the benefit of another.
It cannot be enforced in equity, and is void. Levy v. Brush,
45 N. Y. 589; Bichardson v. Johnsen, 41 Wis. 100; Payne
v. Patterson, 77 Pa. St. 134; Bander v. Snyder, 5 Barb.
(N. Y.) 63; Lathrop v. Hoyt, 7 id. 59; Story, Eq. Jur., sect.
1201 a (11th ed.).
Decree affirmed.

DAviE v. BRIGGS.
1 A person who for seven years has not been heard of by those who, had he
been alive, would naturally have heard of him, is presumed to be dead; but
the law raises no presumption as to the precise time of his death.
2. The triers of the facts may infer that he died before the expiration of the
seven years, if it appears that within that period he encountered some specific peril, or came within the range of some impending or imminent danger
which might reasonably be expected to destroy life.
3. This court adopts the construction of the Supreme Court of North Carolina
that the term "beyond the seas," where it occurs in the Statute of Limitations of that State, means "without the United States."

APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of North Carolina.
The history of this litigation is substantially as follows: The land, containing about two hundred acres, the proceeds
of which are involved in this suit was conveyed in the yeai
1829, for the consideration of $6,000, by John Teague, its then

Oct. 1878.]

DAVIE Ov. BRIGGS.

owner, to F. W. Davie, of South Carolina, a brother of Allen
Jones Davie. In the succeeding year, F. W. Davie leased it,
upon certain terms and conditions, to one McCulloch, for the
term of twenty years, and in 1831, for the consideration of
$5,000, he conveyed to the latter an undivided one-third of the
whole tract, with the exclusive right to direct and manage the
working of the mines thereon and to receive one-third of
the profits arising therefrom, and a few months thereafter he,
for the consideration of $3,000, conveyed an undivided third
of the same tract, with all the emoluments and profits arising
therefrom, to his brother, Hyder A. Davie.
The complainants claim that subsequently, on the 15th of
January, 1833, F. W. Davie, in accordance with an agreement,
which at the time of his purchase from Teague he made with
Allen Jones Davie, conveyed the remaining undivided third of
the tract to Cadwalader Jones, Sen., with all the rights and
privileges thereunto belonging, in trust, to permit said Allen,
his wife, and their children then living or thereafter resulting
from their marriage, to have and receive the rents, profits, and
issues of the said premises, and of all mines thereon found, for
the joint use of said Allen, his wife and children, during the
lifetime of the said Allen, and after his death to permit his
wife and children to receive the said rents, profits, and issues,
and after the death of the wife to convey the premises, &c., to
such children and their issue, free and discharged from all trusts
whatsoever; the conveyance, however, being upon the condition that the land and mines should be liable for one-third of
such amount as upon settlement should be found to have been
expended by F. W. Davie in working the mines. Upon that
conveyance, which was never registered, and is alleged to have
been lost, the complainants, heirs-at-law of said Allen, rest as
the foundation of their right to the relief asked. The defendants deny that any such conveyance was ever executed and delivered by F. W. Davie as his act and deed. Said Allen, at the
time of its alleged execution and delivery, was residing upon
the land with his family, and had some connection with the
working or management of the mines, the precise nature of
which does not appear. Difficulties occurred between him and
McCulloch, which gave rise to a suit in 1833 in the'equity

DAVIE

v.

BRIGGS.

[Sup. ot.

court of Guilford County, in the name of "Allen Jones Davie
and others," against McCulloch. The papers in that suit had
all disappeared when this was commenced, and nothing remained to indicate the nature of the issues but a few scattered
minutes upon the trial docket. From them it appears that an
injunction of some kind was granted against McCulloch which
interfered with his mining operations. By an order made in
1836, the master was directed to ascertain the damages which
McCulloch sustained by reason of the injunction. The final
order in that case seems to have been made in 1840, in the Supreme Court, to which it was transferred for trial. That order
is in these words: "The deeds mentioned in the rules made at
the last term in this cause not having been exhibited and filed
in the office of this court by the time therein directed, it is ordered that the plaintiffs' bill be dismissed out of this court,
with costs to be taxed by the proper officers, but without prejudice to the plaintiffs' right to file another bill."
No other bill appears to have been filed. These minutes do
not show who were complainants in that suit with Allen Jones
Davie, or to what deeds the order of 1840 referred. Not long
after that litigation, Allen Jones Davie removed from the
vicinity of the mines to Hillsboro', N. C., and subsequently to
South Carolina.
In 1848, MeCulloch, for the consideration of $2,000, made a
quitclaim deed to John Gluyas for the undivided third of the
land conveyed to him by F. W. Davie in the year 1831. In
the same year, Hyder A. Davie died, having by his last will devised and bequeathed to F. W. Davie, L. A. Beckham, and W. F.
Desarre his whole estate, real and personal, in trust for the sole
and separate use of his daughter, Mrs. Bedon. On the 2d of
March, 1850, F. W. Davie made two deeds (which were duly
recorded on the same day) to Beckham, one to him individually,
for an undivided third of the land for the expressed consideration of $2,000, and the other to him for an undivided third of
the same land, in trust for Mrs. Bedon, the consideration therefor, as recited, being $3,000, previously paid to the grantor by
Hyder A. Davie. Within a few weeks after the making of these
two last deeds, F. W. Davie died at his home in South Carlina. -On 9th April, 1-850 (whether F. W. Davie was then alive

Ot. 1878.]

DAVIE v. BRIGGS.

does not appear), Beckham leased an undivided two-thirds of
the tract to Briggs for the term of five years, and the latter, on
June 12, 1850, assigned that lease to John Peters and M. L.
Holmes. During the succeeding year, Allen Jones Davie started
for California by the overland route, and was never heard from
after he had reached in his journey the hostile Indian Territory.
In 1852, John Gluyas conveyed, by quitclaim deed, to John
Peters and M. L. Holmes the undivided one-third which he had
previously acquired from McCulloch; and in 1853 M. L. Holmes
conveyed to R. J. Holmes one-eighteenth of the part purchased
from Gluyas and a one-sixth interest in the lease taken by
Holmes and Peters from Briggs. Under the foregoing deeds
and leases, Peters, Sloan, & Co., for a time, worked the mines;
and in June, 1853, they joined with Beckham in selling and
conveying the property by separate deeds to the Belmont Mining Company, at the price of $125,000, which was paid to Peters,
Sloan, & Co. Of that sum, it was agreed between the parties
selling that Peters, Sloan, & Co. were entitled to $81,666.66,
while Beckham, in his individual right and as trustee for Mrs.
Bedon, was entitled to receive $43,333.33. Before this transaction, however, was consummated by a division of the funds
among the respective parties, a written notice, dated July 23,
1853, signed by the' attorney of "Cadwalader Jones and the
heirs of Allen Jones Davie, deceased," was served upon Peters,
Sloan, & Co., to the effect that "one-third of the purchase-money
for which the MeCulloch mine in the county of Guilford has
lately been sold is claimed by Colonel Cadwalader Jones, as
trustee, for the use and benefit of the children and heirs-at-law
of Allen J. Davie, by a deed from F. W. Davie, bearing date
the 15th January, 1833." They were, by that notice,," requested
and notified to retain one-third of said money" in their hands
"for the use of said heirs, and not to pay out said third to
any person or persons without the consent of Col. C. Jones."
This notice induced Peters, Sloan, & Co. to suspend any final
settlement and division with Beckham. In the fall of 1853,
it seems that Cadwalader Jones, Jr., a son of the trustee
named in the deed of Jan. 15, 1833, was employed by the latter, and by William R. Davie, to establish the claim of the
heirs of Allen Jones Davie to said land and mines. After his

DAVIE' v. BRIGGS.

[Sup. (it.

employment, Cadwalader Jones, Jr., appears to have had some
negotiations with Beckham, which resulted in the latter's executing, in the presence of Sloan, of Peters, Sloan, & Co., and
Cadwalader Jones, Jr., a paper, of which the following is a
copy: OF NORTH CAROLINA,
auilford County:
"Whereas Peters, Sloan, & Co. held one-third of the McCulloch
gold-mine in Guilford County, under John Gluyas, Charles McCulloch, and William F. Davie, and whereas they had a lease from
Lewis A. Beckham in his own right, and as trustee of Mrs. Julia
Bedon, for two-thirds of said mine for a period the lease will show;
"Whereas said Peters, Sloan, & Co. worked the said mine for
some year or two, and paid one-seventh of the two-thirds of all
the gold extracted whilst they worked the mine to said Lewis A.
Beckham for himself, and as trustee aforesaid;
"Whereas Peters, Sloan, & Co. sold their interest in said mine
for 882,333.33;
"Whereas Lewis A. Beckham sold his interest in said mine for
821,333.33, and his interest as trustee aforesaid for the same sum;
"Whereas Col. Cad. Jones, of Hillsboro', as trustee, claiming the
one-third of said mine as trustee for Allen J. Davie, wife and children, as he alleges under a deed from William F. Davie;
"Whereas James Sloan, one of the firm of Peters, Sloan, & Co.,
collected for Lewis A. Beckham his part and the part of Julia
Bedon, to wit, 841,666.66;
"Whereas it is the wish of all the parties for the said several
parties to receive the said several purchases without prejudice to
the legal or equitable claim of Col. Cad. Jones;
"It is agreed that whatever claim the said Cad. Jones had in
said gold-mine he shall have against the several parties who have
sold and received the purchase-money instead of the land itself.
And the said Lewis A. Beckham hereby agrees to acknowledge
service of any bill in equity which the said Cad. Jones and his
cestui que trust may in equity file against himself or against himself and others in Guilford County, North Carolina, waiving all
questions as to jurisdiction, to settle any and all questions of title
and right the said Cad. Jones, trustee, or his cestui que trust, have
or may have for the said purchase-money, or the rents and profits
received whilst he had any thing to do with the said mines.
"L. A. BEcxa&H
"(Signed)
"Actor. 28, 1854."
(ind
"STATE

Oct. 1878.]

DAVIE

v.

BRIGGS.

Beckham died in 1860 or 1861. His estate was insolvent.
In July, 1874, this suit was instituted for the purpose of either
obtaining a partition of the land or a portion of the proceeds of
the sale. In the progress of the suit the complainants elected
to claim an interest in the proceeds of the sale. Among the
defendants are the Belmont Mining Company, James Sloan,
M. L. Holmes, and R. J. Holmes, whom the complainants seek
to hold liable for their alleged interest in the proceeds of sale.
Upon final hearing the bill was dismissed, and the complainants
appealed.
James Lowndes and Mr.EdThe cause was argued by .Mr.
ward McCradyj, Jr., for the appellants, and by H. Samuel F.
P1illipsfor the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The appellants, as the heirs-at-law of Allen Jones Davie,
deceased, assert an interest in the proceeds of a sale which took
place in June, 1853, of a tract of land in Guilford County,
North Carolina, known many years ago as the McCulloch goldmine.
Whether the defence, so far as it rests upon the Statute of
Limitations of North Carolina, can be sustained, depends upon
the evidence as to the time when Allen Jones Davie died.
The learned counsel for appellants insist that, consistently
with the legal presumption of death after the expiration of
seven years, without Allen Jones Davie being heard from by
his family and neighbors, the date of such death should not be
fixed earlier than the year 1858. In that view, - excluding
from the computatibn of time the war and reconstruction period
between Sept. 1, 1861, and Jan. 1, 1870, as required by the
statutes of North Carolina (.7ohnson v. Winslow, 68 N. C. 552),
- the suit, it is contended, would not be barred by limitation.
The general rule undoubtedly is, that "a person shown not to
have been heard of for seven years by those (if any) who, if
he had been alive, would naiurally have heard of him, is presumed to be dead, unless the circumstances of the case are such
as to account for his not being heard of without assuming his
death." Stephen, Law of Evid., c. 14, art. 99; 1 Greenl. Evid.,

DAVIE

v. BRIGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

sect. 41; 1 Taylor, Evid., sect. 157, and authorities cited by
each author. But that presumption is not conclusive, nor is
it to be rigidly observed without regard to accompanying circumstances which may show that death in fact occurred within
the seven years. If it appears in evidence that the absent person, within the seven years, encountered some specific peril, or
within that period came within the range of some impending
or immediate danger, which might reasonably be expected to
destroy life, the court or jury may infer that life ceased before
the expiration of the seven years. Mr. Taylor, in the first
volume of his Treatise on the Law of Evidence (sect. 157), says,
that "although a person who has not been heard of for seven
years is presumed to be dead, the law raises no presumption as
to the time of his death; and, therefore, if any one has to establish the precise period during those seven years at which such
person died, he must do so by evidence, and can neither rely,
on the one hand, on the presumption of death, nor, on the other,
upon the presumption of the continuance of life." These views
are in harmony with the settled law of the English courts. In
Re Phene's Trust, Law Rep. 5 Ch. 139; Hopewell v. De Pinna,
2 Camp. N. P. 118; Beg. v. Lumley, Law Rep. 1 C. C. 196; Be
Lewes's Trusts, Law Rep. 11 Eq. 236; 32 Law J. Ch. 104; 40
id. 507; 29 id. 286; 87 id. 265. In the leading case in the
Court of Exchequer of Nepean v. Doe dem. Knight (2 Mee. &
W. 894), in error from the Court of King's Bench, Lord Denman, C. J., said: "We adopt the doctrine of the Court of
King's Bench, that the presumption of law relates only to the
fact of death, and that the time of death, whenever it is material, must be a subject of distinct proof." To the same effect
are Mr. Greenleaf and the preponderance of authority in this
country. 1 Greenl. Evid., sect. 41; Montgomery v. Bevans,
1 Sawyer, 653; Stevens v. McNamara, 36 Me. 176; Smith v.
Knowlton, 11 N. H. 191; Flynn v. Coffee, 12 Allen (Mass.), 183;
Luing v. Steinman, 1 Mete. (Mass.) 204; McDowell v. Simpson,
1 Houst. (Del.) 467; Whiting v. Nicholl, 46 Ill. 230; Spurr v.
Trumble, 1 A. K. Mar. (Ky.) 278; Doe ex dem. Cofer v. Planagan, 1 Ga. 538; Smith v. Smith, 49 Ala. 156; Prim v. Stewart,
7 Tex. 178; Gibbes v. Vincent, 11 Rich. (S. C.) 323; Hancock
v. American Life Insurance Co., 62 Mo. 26, 121; Stouvenal v.

Oct. 1878.]

DAVIE v. BRIGGS.

Sephins, 2 Daly (N. Y.), 319; H.efCartee v. Camee, 1 Barb.
(N. Y.) Ch. 456. And such seems to be the settled doctrine in
North-Carolina. In Spencer v. Moore (11 Ired. 160), the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of that State said: "The rule as
to the presumption of death is, that it arises from the absence of
the person from his domicile without being heard from for seven
years. But it seems rather to be the current of the authorities
that the presumption is only that the person is then dead,
namely, at the end of seven years; but that the presumption
does not extend to the death having occurred at the end, or any
other particular time within that period, and leaves it to be
judged of as a matter of fact according to the circumstances,
which may tend to satisfy the mind, that ii was at an earlier
or later day." The question again arose in the subsequent case
of 3peneer v. Roper (13 id. 333, 334), when that court reaffirmed
Spencer v. 3loore, and, referring with approval to the doctrine
announced by the Court of King's Bench in Doe dem. KYnight
v. Nepean (5 Barn. & Adol. 86, same case as 2 Mees. & W.
894, supra), said: "Where a party has been absent seven years
without having been heard of, the only presumption arising
is that he is then dead, -there is none as to the time of his
death."
We therefore follow the established law when we inquire
whether, according to the evidence, Allen Jones Davie died at
an earlier date than at the end or expiration of the seven years
when the legal presumption of his death arose. It seems to us
that, upon the showing made by the complainants themselves,
the conclusion is inevitable that he died some time during the
year 1851. As early as July 23, 1853, a written notice was
given to Peters, Sloan, & Co., in which they were advised that
Colonel Cadwalader Jones and the children of Allen Jones
Davie claimed an interest in the proceeds of the sale made
by them and Beckham in June, 1853, to the Belmont Mrlining
Company. That notice was signed by "Ralph Gorrill, sol'r
of C. Jones and the heirs of A. J. Davie dee'd." The notice
is produced and relied upon by the complainants in support of
their claim.
Further, in the seventh paragraph of the complainants' bill
they say, "That the said Allen Jones Davie departed this life,

DAVIE v. BRIGGS.

[Sup. Ot.

as it is believed, some time in the year 1851, but the precise
date of his death is not known, nor can any direct proof be
obtained, nothing having been heard from him since the
day of November, 1851, when some of a party with whom he
had undertaken a journey by land to California, through the
country of hostile Indians, returned, saying that the party had
been some time fighting the Indians when they left, but that
said Allen Jones Davie, with the rest of the party, resolved to
press on and fight their way across the country, in which struggle it is believed that he, with the rest of the party, perished,
as none of them have ever been heard of since." Again, in the
deposition of Cadwalader Jones, Jr., we find this language:
"As to Allen Jones Davie, the precise time of his death has
never been ascertained, but he perished (it is supposed) in the
Indian Territory, April or January, in the year 1851, and has
never been heard of since." But this is not all the evidence
in the record upon this point. In a statement of "admitted
facts," filed in the cause, we find the following: "That the
time of the death of Allen Jones Davie is not known, but his
death is supposed to have happened late in the fall of 1851, say
1st December, since which time he has not been heard from."
In view of this evidence, we cannot accept as absolutely
controlling the legal presumption which, in regard to Allen J.
Davie's death, arose at the expiration of seven years from the
time when he was last heard from. We cannot determine the
rights of the parties upon the hypothesis that his death occurred
in the year 1858, when the appellants themselves and their
chief witnesses not only unite in declaring their belief that
he died in 1851, but state facts which fully justify that belief.
Concluding then, as we must, that he died in the year 1851,
it seems clear that the claim set up in the bill to an interest
in the proceeds of the sale of June, 1853, is barred by the limitation of three years prescribed by the North Carolina statute; and it does not appear that any of the complainants are
protected by the savings made in the statute for the benefit of
infants and femes covert.
But it is contended that, in view of the absence of the appellants from North Carolina for many years prior to the
sale of 1853, and their continuous absence since that date,

Oct. 1878.]

DAVIE

v.

BRIGGS.

their rights are protected by the saving in the North Carolina
statute in favor of persons who, having causes of action, were
"beyond the seas" when they accrued.
We are not unaware of the construction which this court
has in several decisions placed upon the phrase "beyond the
seas," as used in statutes of limitation. In Taw v. Roberdeau
(3 Cranch, 173), this court, in considering the meaning of the
words "out of this Commonwealth," as employed in a Virginia
statute of limitations, said: "Beyond sea and out of the State
are analogous expressions, and are to have the same con.
struction." In 2i1urray's Lessee v. Baker et al. (3 Wheat.
511), involving the construction of a Georgia statute of limitation, this court held that the words "beyond the seas" must
be held to be equivalent to "without the limits of the State."
In Bank of Alexandria v. Dyer (14 Pet. 141), the same views
were expressed as to a Maryland statute of limitations. While
the court in that case approved the interpretation of the words
"beyond the seas" as given in previous decisions, it said that
its construction was in harmony with the uniform decisions of
the courts of Maryland. In Shelby v. Guy (11 Pet. 366), the
court was required to interpret the same words in a statute of
limitation which was in force in Tennessee before its separation from North Carolina. Mr. Justice Johnson, in his opinion,
remarked that it was neither sensible nor reasonable to construe
these words according to their literal signification. Upon the
suggestion, however, that a contrary decision had then recently
been made in Tennessee, the court withheld any positive declaration upon the point, in the hope that the courts of the State
would, in due time, furnish such lights upon its settled law as
would enable this court to come to a satisfactory conclusion
upon the question. The court. at the same time decided, as
they had previously done in Green v. Lessee of Neal (6 Pet.
291), and as they subsequently did in ifarpending v. The
-Dutch Cqtureh (16 Pet. 455), and Leftlngwell v. Warren (2
Black, 599), that the fixed and received construction by the
State courts of local statutes of limitation furnishes rules of
decision for this court, so far as such construction and statutes
do not conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
Guided by the doctrines of these cases, let us inquire

DAVIE v. BRIGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

-whether the phrase "beyond the seas," used in the statutes
of North Carolina, has received a fixed construction in the
courts of that State. As early as 1811, in the case of Whitloek
v. Walton (2 Murph. 23, 24), the Supreme Court of North
Carolina construed the words "beyond the seas," which were
used in the Statute of Limitations of 1715. It was there
claimed that a citizen of Virginia, who had a cause of action
against a citizen of North Carolina, but who failed to sue
within the period fixed by the statutes, was within the saving
made for the benefit of those "beyond the seas." But the
Supreme Court of that State said: "The plaintiff is certainly
not within the words of the proviso, and it does not appear to
the court that he falls within the true meaning and spirit of
it. Great is the intercourse between the citizens of this State
and the citizens of other States, particularly adjoining States;
and if suits were permitted to be brought on that account
against our own citizens, at any distance of time, by citizens
of other States, the mischief would be great." That -case was
approved in -Earlev. -Dickson (1 Dev. 16), decided in 1826.
We have been referred to no later case in that court which,
in any respect, modifies these decisions. Consequently, our
duty is, without reference to our former decisions, to adopt,
in this case, the construction which the Supreme Court of
North Carolina has given to the limitation statute of that
State. In so doing, we pursue the precise course marked out
in the case of Green v. Lessee of Neal (supra), where this court
said: "In the case of Iurray's Lessee v. Baker, &c. (3 Wheat.
541), this court decided that the expressions 'beyond seas' and
' out of the State' are analogous, and are to have the same construction. But suppose the same question should be brought
befoie this court from a State where the construction of the
same words had been long settled to mean literally 'beyond
seas,' would not this court conform to it?" The question was
answered by saying that "an adherence by the Federal courts
to the exposition of the local law, as given by the courts of the
State, will greatly tend to preserve harmony 'in the exercise
of the judicial power in the State and Federal tribunals."
Supervisors v. United States, 18 Wall. 82; Suydam v. Williamson, 24 How. 427.

Oct. 1878.]

DAVIE

v.

BRIGGS.

It results that the absence of the complainants from the
State of North Carolina, but within the United States, does
not bring them within the saving made for persons "beyond
the seas."
But upon this branch of the case we are met with the additional argument against the application of the Statute of Limitations, that this is a case of an express trust, and therefote it
is not embraced by the statute. This trust is alleged to have
been created by the writing which Beckham executed on the
23d of July, 1854. But we do not assent to any such construction of that writing, nor do, we perceive any thing in the
conduct of the parties which raises a trust even by implication.
As was well said by the district judge, "No trust can arise by
implication from the circumstances of the transaction, as the
defendants assumed no new obligation, or in any way recognized the rights of the plaintiffs to the fund derived from the
sale of the land. The defendants held these funds adversely,
as they formerly held the lands. They only agreed that if the
plaintiffs could show, in a court of equity, that they were entitled
to any relief against the defendants as the former holders of the
land, the same relief should be had against them as the holders
of the proceeds of the land." It is clear, from all the evidence,
that no such relations were created between the parties, by the
transactions of 1853 and 1854, as suspended or stopped the
running of the Statute of Limitations, and the suit seems to be
barred.
But independently of the conclusion reached upon the question of limitation, there is another view which, in our opinion,
equally precludes all relief to the complainants. It is not
at all satisfactorily shown that F. W. Davie ever delivered as
his act and deed the conveyance of Jan. 15, 1833. The pre3umption is very strong that he did not. It may be inferred
that the original purchase from Teague was made in deference
to the wishes, or upon the suggestion, of Allen Jones Davie,
whose estimate of the value of the gold under Teague's land
was so extravagant that he expressed his belief of its sufficiency
to pay the debt of England. The intention of F. W. Davie,
perhaps, was at some future time, and when his judgment ap.
proved that course, to give his brother, who was of a restless,

DAVIE v. BRIGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

speculative disposition, an interest in the land. It was, doubtless, in preparation for the execution of that purpose that an
original deed was prepared and signed by him, containing the
terms, conditions, and trusts described in the bill, and of which
the paper produced is satisfactorily shown to be a correct copy.
But no witness proves that he ever delivered the original to
Allen Jones Davie, or to any member of his immediate family,
or to Colonel Jones, the designated trustee. If the deed which
C. Jones, Jr., refers to is the same original, certainly his testimony falls far short of proving that it was ever in the possession
of Allen Jones Davie. That witness states nothing more than
his "impression" that he saw the deed in the possession of
Allen Jones Davie while the latter lived in Hillsboro', N. C.
But he cannot remember its contents. Nor does he state in
what year he saw it, or that he recognized the genuine signature of F. W. Davie to the deed. The original, of which the
one filed is a copy,'was certainly in the possession of William
R. Davie, a son of Allen Jones Davie, some time after the death
of F. W. Davie. But where, from whom, or when he obtained
it does not appear. It is not proven that he obtained it in the
lifetime of F. W. Davie. It is consistent with the proof, and is
not a violent presumption, that it was found among the papers
of F. W. Davie after his death. There is no competent evidence that any one ever saw it in the hands of Allen Jones
Davie, or that F. W. Davie, in his lifetime, in any form,
recognized the right of his brother, or of the trustee, Jones,
to its possession. Nor is it shown that the alleged trustee
was aware, until after the death of F. W. Davie, of the trust
intended to be conferred upon him, when the deed should be
delivered.
The loose minutes on the trial docket of the case of Allen J.
Davie and others against McCulloch furnish no evidence that
Allen Jones Davie, during that litigation, had any such deed,
or claimed any right under it. The reasonable construction of
the order made, in that case, in the year 1840, is that the suit
was dismissed because he could not produce any such deed; and
if he could not produce it, it must have been because F. W.
Davie still had it in his possession, and had not delivered it to
his brother. From 1840, down to his leaving for California,

Oct. 1878.]

DAVIE v. BRIGGS.

Allen Jones Davie did not seem to have any connection with
the mines, and no one proves any act or assumption of owner
ship, upon his part, during that period. In view of the great
value which, at one time, he placed upon this property, we
cannot suppose, had the deed been in his custody or under his
control at any time before starting on a perilous overland journey to California, that he would have left without either putting
it upon record, or asserting his claim to the land in some distinct form, or protesting against the absolute sale to Beckham
by F. W. Davie. More than a year before be departed for
California, his brother had sold and conveyed to Beckham, by
deed, promptly placed upon record, the identical interest in the
land which the. appellants claim had been, in 1833, effectively
conveyed to their ancestor. If, when the conveyance to Beckham was made, F. W. Davie had not delivered the signed deed
of 1833, his determination in 1850 not to make such delivery,
but to sell the land to Beckham, cannot be questioned by plaintiffs in error. Allen Jones Davie had not, so far as the record
shows, paid any thing for an interest in the land, either in
money or services. The copy of the original deed which is
produced recites no consideration except one dollar in hand
paid; and while the record does not furnish an explanation of
his change of purpose, it is clear that F. W. Davie was under no
legal obligation which prevented him, in 1850, from selling the
land, and withholding from his brother the delivery of the deed of
1833. So far as the record speaks, it appears to be a case of an
unexecuted gift by F. W. Davie to his brother. His whole conduct for many years prior to his death is altogether inconsistent
with the hypothesis that he bad at any time, prior to his sale to
Beckham, consummated the gift by delivering the deed to his
brother. The conclusions we have expressed are much strengthened by what occurred after the sale to the Belmont Mining
Company in June, 1853. In the fall of that year, C. Jones, Sen.,
in conjunction with William R. Davie, a son of Allen Jones
Davie, employed C. Jones, Jr., an attorney and a kinsman of
the latter, to establish the claim of the trustee and the children
of Allen Jones Davie to the land, or to an interest in the proceeds of its sale. C. Jones, Jr., admits that he entered diligently
upon the discharge of this duty. He was cognizant, because
vol. Vi l.

41

STACEY V. EMERY.

[Sup. ot.

he was present at the execution, of Beckham's agreement of
April 2S, 1854, whereby it was stipulated that the trustee and
cestui que trust might assert, through legal proceedings, any
claim they had in the proceeds of the sale of the land, and
wherein Beekham agreed to appear to any suit in equity instituted for such purpose, waiving all question of jurisdiction.
Although Cadwalader Jones, Sen., lived within about sixty
miles of the land for many years after the sale of June, 1853,
no such proceedings were instituted until this suit was commenced in 1874, twenty-four years after the death of F. NV.
Davie, and twenty-one years after the sale to the Belmont
Mining Company by his grantees, whose deeds were duly recorded. This great lapse of time since the sale of 1853, without
an assertion, in some form of legal procedure, of the rights now
claimed, is persuasive evidence that the persons who examined
into the facts, when they were fresh in the minds of living witnesses, reached the conclusion that the deed of January, 1833,
had never been delivered by F. W. Davie, and that therefore
neither the trustee nor the children and heirs of Allen Jones
Davie acquired any rights thereunder.
Upon the whole case we are satisfied that the decree dismissing the bill was right, and should be affirmed. It is
So ordered.

STACEY V. EMERY.

A., a collector of internal revenue, seized certain whiskey belonging to B., for
the condemnation and forfeiture whereof proceedings were afterwards, at the
suit of the United States, brought in the proper court. The court rendered
a judgment dismissing them; and, "it appearing that the seizure, though improperly made, was made by his superior officer, the supervisor," ordered that
a certificate of probable cause be issued to A. B. brought trespass against
the supervisor. Held, 1. That the certificate was a bar to the suit. 2. That
the motive of the court for granting it makes no part of the record, and should
not have been recited therein.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

