Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. WATKINS.

UNITED STATES V. WATKINS.
BRINGIER v. UNITED STATES.
1. Where a grant of lands, made pursuant to a sale of them, and describing them
by metes and bounds, according to a previous regular survey, was made by
the Spanish Intendant, March 5, 1804, when, according to the views of the
government of the United States, the title to Spain had terminated, but
while she was in actual possession, and claimed the sovereignty of that part
of Louisiana where the lands are situate, - Held, that the grant is subject
to confirmation, under the act of June 22, 1860, entitled "An Act for the
final adjustment of private land-claims in the States of Florida, Louisiana,
and Missouri, and for other purposes." 12 Stat. 85.
2. Where the original documents to support a claim under said act are not produced, and there is no just ground to suspect their genuineness, the record
of them, made by the proper commissioner, to whom the claim was originally
presented, is sufficient prima facie evidence of their contents.
3. A. and B., assignees of the party to whom the grant was made in 1804, filed,
under said act, a petition in the District Court praying for the confirmation
of their claim covering lands, portions of which had been donated by the
United States to settlers. Due proof was made of the grant and assignment; but it appeared that B. had conveyed his interest thereunder to C.
A decree was passed dismissing the petition as to B., confirming the right
of A. to one undivided half of so much of said lands whereto the title
remained in the United States, and awarding him certificates of location
equal in extent to one undivided half of the residue of said lands. Held,
1. That the decree was proper. 2. That "sold," where it occurs in the
sixth section of said act, is of equivalent import with "sold or otherwise
disposed of."

APPEALS from the District Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General, for the United States.
Mfr. Willis 1Drummond and Mr. Robert H. Bradford, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is very different from the preceding, being based
upon a complete and perfect title, bearing date the 5th of March,
1804. This title consists of a Spanish grant, made by the Intendant Morales to one Charles Ramos, for twenty thousand
arpents of land, situated in the St. Helena portion of Baton
Rouge district, on the Amite River, and described by certain

UNITED STATES V. WATKINS,

[Sup. Ct.

metes and bounds, according to a survey thereof which had
been previously regularly made. The grant was made in pursuance of a sale of the land; and, although made according to
the views of our government after the title of Spain had ceased
to exist, yet it was made whilst that government had actual
possession of the country and claimed the sovereignty thereof;
and, therefore, it is within the purview of the act of 1860, and
comes clearly within the case of United States v. Lynde, 11
Wall. 682.
The government, however, questions the evidence by which
the grant and other documents of title were proved before the
District Court. The originals were not pyoduced; but only
certified copies of the record thereof, made and preserved by
the commissioner for examining land titles for the district
where the lands are situated. The claim and the evidence
connected therewith were presented to said commissioner in
1814; and this evidence, including the grant, was recorded by
him as required by law. He reported against the confirmation
of the grant, on account of its being based on a sale, and not
competent for the Spanish government to make. Amer. State
Papers, Public Lands, vol. iii. pp,. 58, 66. His records, however, have been preserved, and turned over to his successors, in
vhose possession they now are. We think that these records
are competent evidence. The fourth section of the act of April
25, 1812 (2 Stat. 715), required every claimant of land in the
district in question to deliver to the commissioner a notice of
his claim in writing, together with a plat (in case a survey had
been made) of the tracts claimed; and to deliver also, for the
purpose of being recorded, every grant, or order of survey,
deed, conveyance, or other written evidence of his claim; and
it was directed that the same should be recorded by the clerk,
in books kept for that purpose, on receiving the prescribed fees
therefor. The fifth section required the commissioner to record, in like manner, the evidence adduced before him in reference to the justice and validity of each claim. Abstracts of
this evidence, and the decision of the commissioner thereon,
were to be transmitted to the Secretary of the Treasury. By
the seventh section of the act of 1860, under which the present
proceedings are had, it is proiided, "That whenever any claim

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. WATKINS.

is presented for confirmation, under the provisions of this act,
which has heretofore been presented, before any board of commissioners under authority of Congress, the facts reported as
proven by the former board shall be taken as true primafacie;
and the evidence offered before such former board, and remaining of record, shall be admitted on the examination of the claims
made under the provisions of this act."
This seens to be conclusive on the point. If the non-production of the original documents is, in any case, accompanied
by such circumstances as to raise a suspicion of their genuineness, the question of the sufficiency of the record may be
properly raised. But in the absence of any such suspicion, the
record is sufficient evidence, primafacie, of the documents it
contains. We think the objection cannot be sustained.
Other questions raised in the case depend upon the disposition
of the property subsequent to the original grant. On the 8th of
March, 1804, three days after the date of the grant, Ramos conveyed the property to William Simpson and John Watkins. The
petitioners in the case are, - 1st, the heirs of Watkins; 2d, Melanie Bringier, formerly the widow of Simpson, and who, in the
original petition, claimed his half of the lands as his sole legal
heir. The claim of Watkins's heirs to represent him seems to
be sufficiently substantiated. The case also shows a duly certified copy of the will of William Simpson, dated Jan. 16, 1813,
which was duly executed and proved in New Orleans, and by
which he gave and devised to his wife, Melanie Bringier Simpson, all his estate and property, with the exception of a few
trifling legacies. But a supplemental and amended petition
was filed in the case, by which Melanie Bringier admits that it
had come to her memory and notice that, on or about the year
1813, she sold to James Innerarity, for a valuable consideration,
all her right and interest in the succession of her then recently
deceased husband, William Simpson; which conveyance, she
acknowledges, seems to estop her from claiming the undivided
moiety of the lands, unless for the use and benefit of the said
Innerarity, his heirs or legal representatives. She claims, however, that Innerarity was the testamentary executor of her
husband, and was then engaged in settling his estate, which
consisted mostly of the shares held by him in the extensive

UNITED STATFS V. WATKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

house of John Forbes & Co., of which John Forbes, Innerarity,
and Simpson were the partners. [The report of Commissioner
Cosby shows (Amer. State Papers, Public Lands, vol. iii. p. 58)
that the claim under the Ramos grant was presented to him in
1814, by the heirs of Innerarity.] The supplemental petition
proceeds to say, "that it was an old-established maxim of said
house that no partner could hold real estate purchased by him
as separate property, but that it should belong to the house
jointly; that, in the year 1814, it appears that the said Innerarity in presenting the land claim now sued on to the United
States commissioner for land claims west of Pearl River, only
claimed for himself, or the estate of William Simpson, 4,750
arpents, and stated in his notice of claim that 1,000 arpents
belonged to the widow of Carlos Ramos, and 4,750 other
arpents to John Lynde; that the transactions of those early
days are involved in doubt and perplexity, and that the memory
of your petitioner, after the lapse of more than half a century,
fails to recall them clearly.
"Wherefore, if said title to said moiety of said lands sold by
Charles Ramos to said Simpson, and devised to Melanie Bringier
in his said will, has in fact been conveyed from her to said
James Innerarity, either in his individual capacity or as a partner in the house of Forbes & Co., and whether the same is now
vested in the legal representatives of said house, or the legal
representatives of James Innerarity, or in them jointly with
those of Ramos and Lynde, or in whomsoever the same may be
vested in law or equity, if not in your petitioner, that then and
in such case your petitioner acknowledges that she prosecutes
this suit for the sole use and benefit of the said legal representatives of said Innerarity, or of them jointly with those of the
house of Forbes & Co., the widow Ramos, and John Lynde, or
for the sole use and benefit of whoever may hereafter be decreed
to be the true, legal, and equitable owner of said lands."
Wherefore the petitioners prayed that the petitioner Melanie
Bringier might be allowed to prosecute the suit to final decree,
for the sole use of those who in a proper legal proceeding might
establish their rights contradictory to her under the sale from
her to said Innerarity, in case said sale should be held valid.
and to embrace said land.

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. WATKINS.

To this supplementary petition a demurrer was interposed,
which was sustained by the court below, and judgment was
given for one half of the grant in favor of the heirs of Watkins,
and for the United States as to the other half. The United
States appealed from the first part of the decree, and Melanie
Bringier appealed from the latter part.
We see no reason for sustaining the appeal of the government. The fact that Simpson and Watkins were tenants in
common of undivided moieties in the land, can produce no
inconvenience in making a decree in favor of Watkins's heirs
for one-half of the amount of land in controversy. All, or
nearly all of it, has been disposed of by the government, and
the requisite amount of certificates of location can be awarded
to them for their share therein. This they ask, and it is equitable and just that they should have it.
As to the share of Simpson, there is greater difficulty. By
the admission of Melanie Bringier, she has parted with all title
to the lands. It is evident that no decree can be made in her
favor. The heirs of Inuerarity have already been before the
court, and their claims have been rejected. United States v.
Innerarity,19 Wall. 595. On the whole, we think that the
decree of the District Court ought to stand.
As to the point made by the government, that the lands in
question were not sold by the United States to third parties,
but were donated to settlers thereon ; and that, therefore, the
case does not come within the words of the act of 1860, granting to successful claimants other public lands in lieu of those
claimed, we do not think that this objection is tenable. If the
government has disposed of the lands in any manner, we think
the fair interpretation of the act is, that the claimant should
have other lands in lieu thereof. As we have so held in
several other cases, we do not deem it necessary to discuss the
subject further. The act may well be construed alongside of
other acts in pari materia, where the words "sold or otherwise
disposed of" are expressly used. They are all within the same
mischief and the same reason.
-Decree affirmed.

