Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES v. GAINES.

Raliroad Co., 26 N. J. L. 13; Rector, &c. of Eing's Chapel
v. Pelham, 9 Mass. 501; Parkerv. Nichols, 7 Pick. (Mass.)
111; Nicholl v. New York & Erie Railroad Co., 12 Barb.
(N. Y.) 460; Bank v. Kent, 4 N. H. 221; Cross v. Carson,
8 Blackf. (Ind.) 138; Hfooper v. Cummings, 45 Me. 359; Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, 2 Paine, 545; Underhill v. Saratoga & Washington Railroad Co., 20 Barb. (N. Y.)
455; Shannon, Adm'r, v. Fuller, 20 Ga. 566; Thompson v.

Bright, 1 Cush. (Mass.) 428.
Bringing suit for the premises by the proper party is sufficient to authorize a recovery, without actual entry or a previous
demand of possession. Corneliusv. Ivins, 2 Dutch. (N. J.) 376.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

RAILROAD ComZPANiES v. GAmTEs.
1 A provision in the charter of a railroad company that "the capital stock of
said company shall be for ever exempt from taxation, and the road, with all
its fixtures and appurtenances, including workshops, machinery, and vehicles
of transportation, shall be exempt from taxation for the period of twenty
years from the completion of the road, and no longer," does not, after the
expiration of that period, exempt from taxation the road, with its fixtures,
&c., although the same were purchased with or represented by capital.
2. In 1875, the State of Tennessee enacted a railroad tax law, the eleventh section of which provided that a railroad company accepting that section as
a special amendment to its charter, and paying annually to the State one
and one-half per cent on its gross receipts, should be exempt from other
provisions of the act, and that such payment should be in full of all taxation. A company, whose charter, granted in 1846, exempted from taxation
its capital stock for ever, and its road, fixtures, &c., for a specific period,
which expired March 28, 1877, accepted the provisions of that section, and
paid, for 1875 and 1876, the required percentage. That section having been
declared by the Supreme Court of the State to be unconstitutional, it was
repealed by an amendment, passed in 1877, which required such companies
as had accepted and complied with its provisions to be assessed anew under
the other sections of the act of 1875, credit to be given for sums paid by
them, and any excess to be refunded. In a suit by the company to restrain
the asseeiment and collection of the tax, -Held, that the Constitution of
1870, as construed by the highest judicial authority in the State, r~quired
all property to be uniformly taxed; and hence the legislature could not,
in 1875, bind the State not to tax the company otherwise than as that

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ut.

section provides, upon the surrender by the company of its charter ex
emptions. Said amendment, so far as it subjected the property to taxation after March 28, 1877, did not, therefore, impair the obligation of a
contract.
A., a railroad company, was by its charter invested, "for the purpose of
makig and using said road, with all the powers, rights, and privileges, and
subject to all the disabilities and restrictions, that have been conferred
and imposed upon" company B. The latter was by its charter exempt
from taxation upon its capital stock for ever, and upon its road, fixtures,
&c., for a term of years. Hdd, that the grant to A. did not include immunity
from taxation.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
This was a suit in equity commenced in the Chancery Court
f Davidson County, Tennessee, by three railroad companies,
he Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company, the Mobile
nd Ohio Railroad Company, and the Knoxville and Charleston
tailroad Company, plaintiffs in error, to restrain the defendants,
Pho are officers of the State, from assessing and collecting taxes
pon the property of the several corporations, under the proisions of "An Act declaring the mode and manner of valuing
he property of a railroad company for taxation," passed March
0, 1875 (Acts 1875, p. 3100), as amended by "An Act to
mend ' An Act entitled an act . . .' passed March 20, 1875,
,nd to adjust the rights of the State and railroads in Tennesee under the decision of the Supreme Court, holding that the
leventh section of said act is unconstitutional," passed in
Iarch, 1877. Acts 1877, p. 383.
The section of the act of 1875, important to the consideraion of this case, is, 11. That each and every railroad company which will
ccept as a special amendment to its charter for a period of ten years
rom the first day of January, 1875, and that will pay annually to
he treasurer of the State one and one-half per cent on the gross
eceipts from all sources of such company, shall be exempt from the
rovisions of the foregoing sections of this act, and the payment of
aid one and one-half per cent upon all gross earnings of such road
"SECT.

hall be in full of all taxation. .

.

. Such railroads as do not accept

he provisions of this section shall be taxed as provided for in the
Dregoing sections of this act: Provided,that the charters of all raiload companies accepting the provisions of this section shall be hereiyso amended that after the expiration of said ten years no exemp-

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. GAINES.

tions of any property of said railroad company shall exist, but be
placed upon the same footing as the property of other corporations
or individuals. The charters of all railroad companies accepting the
provisions of this section are hereby so amended that, after the lapse
of the ten years aforesaid, every provision contained in the provisions
of the charter of said companies exempting their property from taxation is hereby declared null and void, in as full and ample a manner
as if the same was especially set forth in their respective charters."
Art. 2, sect. 28, of the Constitution of Tennessee, which took
effect in 1870, is as follows "All property, real, personal, or mixed, shall be taxed; but the
legislature may except such as may be held by the State, by counties, cities, or towns, and used exclusively for public or corporation
purposes, and such as may be held and used for ,purposes purely
religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational; and shall
except 61,000 worth of personal property in the hands of each taxpayer, and the direct products of the soil in the hands of the producer and his immediate vendee. All property shall be taxed
according to its value, that value to be ascertained in such manner
as the legislature shall direct, so that taxes shall be equal and uniform throughout the State. No one species of property from which
a tax may be collected shall be taxed higher than any other species
of property of the same value. But the legislature shall have power
to tax merchants, pedlers, and privileges in such manner as they
may from time to time direct. . .'
"SECT. 29. The General Assembly shall have power to authorize

the several counties and incorporated towns in this State to impose
taxes for county and corporation purposes respectively, in such
manner as shall be prescribed by law; and all property shall be
taxed according to its value upon the principles established in regard
to State taxation.'
Art. 11, sect. 8, is as follows:"The legislature shall have no power to suspend any general law
for the benefit of any particular individual, nor to pass any law for
the benefit of individuals inconsistent with the general laws of the
land; nor to pass any law granting to any individual or individuals,
rights, privileges, immunities, or exemptions other than such as may
be by the same law extended to any member of the community who
may be able to bring himself within the provisions of such law. No
corporation shall be created, or its powers increased or diminished,

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

y special laws; but the General Assembly shall provide by general
tws for the organization of all corporatidns hereafter created, which
tws may, at any time, be altered or repealed; and no such altera.on or repeal shall interfere with or divest rights which have become
ested."
On the 3d of February, 1877, the Supreme Court of Tennes-e decided, in the case of -Ellisv. The Louisville & Nashville
Zailroad Co., not yet reported in the current series of reports,
liat the eleventh section of the Railroad Taxation Act of 1875
,as unconstitutional and void, except perhaps as to corpora.ons exempt from taxation by the terms of their charters and
ccepting the section, because it did not impose a tax upon the
roperty of railroad companies equal and uniform with that
nposed upon the property of individuals.
After this decision the amendment of 1877 was passed, by
rhich sect. 11 of the act of 1875 was repealed, and the railroad
ix assessors were required to assess all railroads in the State
)r the years 1877 and 1878, under the first ten sections of the
ot of 1875; and where any railroads had not been assessed
nder such sections "by reason of having accepted and cornlied with the provisions of the eleventh section of said act,
r for any other cause," they were to be assessed for the years
875 and 1876, as well as 1877 and 1878. Sect. 8. All railoads which had accepted and complied with the provisions of
Le eleventh section of the act of 1875 were allowed a credit
)r the sums paid under that section on the amounts assessed
)r the years 1875, 1876, 1877, and 1878, and if the sums paid
xceeded the assessments for those years the excess was to be
efunded with interest. Sect. 9.
Sect. 38 of the charter of the Memphis and Charleston Raiload Company is as follows "The capital stock of said company shall be for ever exempt from
ixation, and the road, with all its fixtures and appurtenances, inluding workshops, machinery, and vehicles of transportation, shall
e exempt from taxation for the period of twenty years from the
ompletion of the road, and no longer."
This company completed its road March 28, 1857. It also
ccepted the provisions of the eleventh section of the act of

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COIPANIES V. GAINES.

1875, and paid the treasurer of State, Jan. 10, 1876, the one
and one-half per cent of its gross earnings for the year 1875,
amounting to .5,691, and, Jan. 10, 1877, $5,581, the percentage
for 1876.
After the passage of the act of 1877, the State officers pro
ceeded to make a valuation of the property of the company,
and were taking the necessary steps to provide for the levy and
collection of taxes. This suit was commenced to restrain sucl,
action, and'the grounds for relief as alleged were, 1. That the exemption of the capital stock of the company
was an exemption of all the property of the company which
had been procured with the capital.
2. That even if this were not so, the property of the company was exempt under its charter until March 28, 1877.
8. That by its acceptance of the eleventh section of the act of
1875 as an amendment to its charter, the company was exempt
from any other taxation than that prescribed by that section,
from January, 1875, until January, 1885.
The Supreme Court of the State decided, upon appeal, in
respect to this company, that the acceptance of sect. 11 of the
act of 1875 did not relieve the company from taxation under
the first ten sections of the act of 1875, as amended in 1877,
because that section was unconstitutional and void; that both
the capital stock and the property of the company were, by
the charter, exempt from all taxation until March 28, 1877;
that after that date the property of the company was taxable
under the act of 1875, as amended; and that, in settlement of
the taxes to be levied for the years 1877 and 1878, the company
was entitled to an allowance for the sums paid in 1876 and
1877, under that section.
Sect. 11 of the charter of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
Company provides as follows:"That the capital stock of said company shall be for ever exempt
from taxation, and the road, with all its fixtures and appurtenances,
including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation,
shall be exempt from taxation for the period of twenty-five years
from the completion of the road, and no tax shall ever be laid on
said road cr fixtures which will reduce dividends below eight per
cent."

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

The road of this company was not completed until April 22,
861, and the court below.decided that both its capital stock
nd its tangible property were exempt from taxation until April
2, 1886, and as that relieved the company from taxation under
he act of 1875, as amended, until after the year 1886, and the
efendants in the suit were only proceeding to make an assessient for the years 1875, 1876, 1877, and 1878, an injunction
ras granted restraining the assessments until 1886, and leaving
11 questions after that time open.
The Knoxville and Charleston Railroad Company was incor'orated Feb. 18, 1858. Sect. 58 of its charter is as follows: "The said company is hereby invested, for the purpose of making
nd using said road, with all the powers, rights, and privileges, and
abject to all the disabilities and restrictions, that have been conerred and imposed upon the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad
Jompany in its original charter."
The charter of the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Com)any contained all the usual and ordinary provisions found in
ailroad charters, authorizing the construction and use of railoads, and also contained an exemption from taxation like that,
a sect. 88 of the charter of the Memphis and Charleston
lailroad Company. The Knoxville and Charleston Company
laimed exemption from taxation under the amended law of
.875, on account of the exemption clause in the charter of the
qashville and Chattanooga Company; but the court below
ield otherwise, on the ground that the exemption of the Nash'il1e and Chattanooga Company was not one of the " rights
md privileges" granted to the Knoxville and Charleston Corn)any.
To reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee,
h6 companies sued out this writ, and assign for error that the
upreme Court of Tennessee erred, 1. In adjudging that the eleventh section of the act of
llarch 20, 1875, the provisions of which had been accepted,
md by its terms had become a part of the charter of the Mem)his and Charleston Railroad, was unconstitutional and void, as
)eing violative of the rule of equality and uniformity of taxa;ion prescribed and required by par. 28, art. 2, of the Consti-

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. GAINES.

tution of 1870. It furthermore erred in holding that the
repealing act of March 20, 1877, was constitutional and valid,
and not violative of the chartered rights of these several
companies.
2. In decreeing that the roads of the companies, with their
fixtures and appurtenances, including shops, warehouses, and
vehicles of transportation, whether built and purchased by the
capital stock or not, were, under said act of 1877, liable to taxation after the expiration of twenty years, and twenty-five years
from the completion of the respective roads.
3. In decreeing that the Knoxville and Charleston Railroad
Company was liable to taxation under the acts of 1875 and
1877, and was not entitled to any exemption.
4. In not decreeing that the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company should never be subjected to any taxation which would
reduce its dividends below eight per cent.
111r. TV. Y. C. Hfumes for the plaintiff in error.
According to the settled judicial construction as well as the
popular import of "capital stock," the term, where it occurs in
the charters of these companies, must be held to signify the
property purchased therewith and represented thereby. Such
stock exists only nominally. The property it represents is the
tangible reality. Burrough, Taxation, 142. If the charters
were silent on the subject, and the general laws of the State
controlled, a tax could not be assessed upon the stock and upon
such property, whether the latter consisted of real estate, rolling-stock, the road-bed, or the fixtures therewith connected,
as double taxation would be thereby imposed. It therefore
necessarily follows that the perpetual exemption of the stock
from taxation extends to such property. Gordon v. Baltimore,
5 Gill (Md.), 236 ; Baltimore v. Baltimore &' Ohio Railroad Co.,
6 id. 294; State v. Cumberland & Pennsylvania Railroad, 40
Md. 51; Bedford v. Zrlayor of .Nashville, 7 Heisk. (Tenn.)
413 ; Iron City Bank v. Pittsburg,37 Pa. St. 340 ; Connersville
v. Bank of Indiana,16 Ind. 105; Sebring v. City of Charleston,
5 Rich. (S. C.) Eq. 561; State v. Hood, 15 Rich. (S. C.) 178;
Ordinary of Bibb County v. Central Railroad et al., 40 Ga.
646; -Douglassv. State, &e., 34 N. J. L. 485; State, &c. v. Haight,
id. 128; Richmond v. Richmond & -Danville Railroad Co., 21

RAILROAD COMPANIES

v.

GAINES.

[Sup. Ot.

Gratt. (Va.) 604; Union Bank v. State, 9 Yerg. (Tenn.)
189; ew Haven v. City Bank, 31 Conn. 108; Hannibal & St.
Josep7 Railroad Co. v. Shacklett, 30 Mo. 550; Wilmington
Railroadv. Reid, 13 Wall. 264.
To give full effect to the entire charter, the specifically enumerited property which is exempt but for a limited period must
be confined to such as was purchased or constructed with
money, not constituting a part of the fund, subscribed by the
-orporators, but borrowed pursuant to the power which the
,harter conferred upon the companies. Otherwise, we must
ignore the cardinal rule of construction, which requires that
fhe different provisions of a statute should, if possible, be recon-iled, so as to make the whole consistent and harmonious. The
-ourt below rendered nugatory and unmeaning the positive and
anequivocal provision in regard to the capital stock, by holding that the property which it represents was rightfully subject
bo taxation after the expiration of that period.
The capital stock of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad
Company and of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company is
B10,633,325. The bonded debt, secured by mortgages, which
was incurred in procuring the means to complete the construcbion of their roads and to purchase other property appurtenant
bhereto, is $16,295,677.05. By giving to each clause its full
meaning, the works and property of the respective companies
Lo the latter amount would be taxable after that period; but
3o much of them as was paid for out of the capital stock
would be perpetually exempt. Any other interpretation pracically nullifies the first clause of the section, by depriving the
apital stock of the immunity thereby conferred.
The Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company has also a further
provision, relieving it from any taxation which "would reduce
dividends below eight per cent." It has not for years declared
dividends, and its condition will not justify it in doing so.
The State claims the right, nevertheless, to subject the property to taxation. The cases in this court are conclusive against
the right. Raleigh & Gaston Railroad Co. v. Reid, 13 Wall.
269; Pacific Railroad Co. v. Maguire, 20 id. 36.
The act of 1877 is a palpable violation of the contract contained in these charters, and no question is made by the

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. GAINES.

defendants as to the power of the legislature to grant them
under the Constitution of 1834.
It remains to consider the effect of the eleventh section of
the act of March 20, 1875. The Memphis and Charleston
Railroad Company, by accepting it, entered with the State
into a contract, which is binding, unless it infringes some constitutional limitation upon the legislative power.
It is submitted 1. That the charter of the company, with all the exemptions
thereby conferred, was in full force when the Constitution of
1870 took effect.
2. By the section, the State purchased from the company
its surrender of the exemptions, and thus secured an immediate
annual revenue of one and one-half per cent upon its gross earnings, by stipulating that that percentage should be the measure
of taxation for the ensuing ten years.
3. An adequate consideration having been thus paid, the
case falls within the rule announced in State Bank of Ohio v.
Rnoop, 16 How. 169.
4. The constitutional provision respecting equality and uniformity of taxation does not apply to property wholly exempt
from taxation, as this confessedly was, then and for years
afterward. Even if no such exemption existed, the legislature could, under the existing Constitution, make a valid contract with the company for a fixed percentage on its gross
earnings, in commutation for all taxes on its property for a
specific period. Burrough, Taxation, 137; llinois Central
Railroad Co. v. lMeLean County, 17 Ill. 291; Hansacker v.
Wright, 30 id. 148; State Bank v. People, 5 id. 303; People
v. Berger, 62 id. 452; Supervisors v. Campbell, 42 id. 490;
Louisiana State Lottery v. City of New Orleans, 24 La. Ann.
86 ; Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v. Tennessee, 8 Heisk.
(Tenn.) 798.
5. The Supreme Court declared the section to be unconstitutional, after the company had in good faith accepted its terms,
and paid for two years the stipulated consideration. The company claims that its acceptance created a contract, the obligation of which was impaired by subsequent legislation. A
Federal question thus arises; and, in determining the points
VOL. VIL.

45

06

RAILROAD CON1PANIES V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

rhich it involves, this court is not, in regard to any of them,
ound by the decision of the State court.
If, however, the section is held to be not authorized by the
'onstitution of 1870, the question as to the exemption under
he original charters will remain.
The Knoxville and Charleston Railroad Company had, for
he purpose of making and using her road, all the rights and
rivileges granted to the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad
)ompany by its original charter, which provided for an exmption of its capital stock for ever, and of its road and
,roperty for twenty years from the completion of the road.
.he road is not yet completed. Humphrey v. Pegues (16
Vall. 244) is almost identical with this case. It was there
teld that the grant of the rights and privileges to one com,any which were possessed by another carried with it the
.xemption from taxation which the latter enjoyed.
So in
Vorgan v. Louisiana (93 U. S. 217), Mr. Justice Field says,
Immunity of particular property from taxation is a privilege
vhich may sometimes be transferred under that designation, as
icld in Humpthrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244. All that we now
lecide is, that such immunity is not itself a franchise of a
.ailroad corporation, which passes as such, without other deicription, to a purchaser of its property." p. 224. The only
luestion then under consideration was, whether by a sale of
he property and franchises of a railroad company under a
lecree of foreclosure, or under an execution sued out upon
money judgment rendered against it, an immunity from
,axation conferred by the charter would accompany the prop,rty when transferred to the purchaser. The court decided
;hat it would not, as it was a ' personal privilege of the com?any, and not transferable." The soundness of the rule in
limphrey v. Pegues, as to what passes when the "rights and
privileges " which one company possesses are granted to an3ther by a legislative enactment, was not doubted, nor has it
been in any subsequent case.
Lexicographers define "privilege" to be an exemption or
immunity from some general burden; a peculiar advantage
or benefit. The right and privilege to "make and use" a
railroad free from taxation, vested in the Nashville and Chatta.

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES v. GAINES.

nooga Company, -were granted to the Knoxville and Charleston
Company.
AIr. J. B. Heiskell, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The claims of the several corporations will be considered
separately, and in the order they are presented by the record.
I. THE MEMPHIS AND CHARLESTON RAILROA)
COMPANY.

1. As to the extent of the exemption contained in the original charter.
Under this branch of the case the company claims that the
exemption of the capital stock from taxation is equivalent to
an exemption of the property purchased with or represented
by the capital, and there are undoubtedly many cases to be
found in this and other courts where it has been held that an
exemption of the capital stock of a corporation from taxation
was equivalent to an exemption of the property into which the
capital had been converted. But in all these cases we think
it will be found that the question turned upon the effect to be
given the term "capital," or "capital stock," as used in the
particular charter under consideration, and that when the
property has been exempted by reason of the exemption of
the capital, it has been because, taking the whole charter
together, it was apparent that the legislature so intended.
Thus the capital stock of a bank usually consists of money
paid in to be used in banking, and an exemption of such
capital stock from taxation must almost necessarily mean an
exemption of the securities into which the money has been
converted in the regular course of a banking business. And
in general, an exemption of capital stock, without more, may,
with great propriety, be considered, under ordinary circumstances, as exempting that which, in the legitimate operations
of the corporation, comes to represent the capital.
But in this case, while the capital stock is for ever exempt,
the "road, with all its fixtures and appurtenances, including
workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation," is

RAILROAD COMPANIES v. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

3xempt for only twenty years after the completion of the road.
learly, under such circumstances, it could not have been
inderstood that the enumerated property was to represent
;he capital for the purposes of taxation. Exemptions are
aever to be presumed. On the contrary, the presumptions
ire always against them. The exemption of the property fox
;wenty years only is equivalent to an express power to tax
ifter that time.
It is said, however, that both provisions of the statute can
tand, - that which exempts the capital and that which taxes
;he tangible property, - if the part of the property which
:epresents the capital is exempted, and that which represents
;he bonded debt is taxed; but we certainly have no clear man:estation of any such intention by the legislature. It is as
listinctly stated that the road and all its fixtures, &c., are to
)e taxed as that the capital is to be exempt. While the com?any had power to borrow money on mortgage, it is very clear
!rom the provisions of the charter it was expected the road
night be completed with capital alone. Sect. 17, in which
he power to mortgage is given, is as follows: "The said
ompany may at any time increase its capital stock to a sum
kufficient to complete the road and stock it with every thing
iecessary to give it full operation and effect, either by opening
)ooks for new stock, or by selling such new stock, or by bor*owingmoney on the credit of the company and on mortgage
)f its charter and works; and the manner in which the same
hall be done, in either case, shall be prescribed by the stockiolders at a general meeting. . . ." Under these circumstances,
t cannot for a moment be doubted that if the legislature had
lupposed a different rule of taxation was to be applied if the
oad was built with borrowed money, from what should be if
t was built from stock, some mention would have been made
)f it, and some means provided for determining what was exewxpt
z representing stock, and what taxable as representing debt.
rhen again, suppose the debt paid off, either by the issue of
iew stock or the earnings of the road, would the property then
)e exempt as capital, or taxable because originally built with
)orrowed money?
Without pursuing this subject further, it is sufficient to say

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD

ComPLNnIS

V. GAINES.

that we are clearly of the opinion that the road, with all its
fixtures, &c., was taxable under the original charter after
March 28, 1877, and that, whatever else was exempted as capital stock, this was not.
2. As to the effect of the acceptance of the eleventh section
of the act of 1875, and the payment of taxes thereunder for
the years 1875 and 1876.
The claim on the part of the company is, that by the acceptance of this section as an amendment to its charter, a valid
contract was entered into between the State and the corporation, regulating the taxation of the company -until the year
1885. It is said that the release by the company of the perpetual exemption of its capital stock, and of the exemption of
its property until 1877, which were granted by the original
charter, was a sufficient consideration for an agreement, on
the part of the State, not to tax the company otherwise than
according to the accepted eleventh section for ten years, and
that a law which provides for taxation in a different manner
impairs the obligation of that contract.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the State declaring
this section to be invalid, so far as it relates to companies not
claiming to be exempt from taxation under their charters, because it does not conform to the constitutional requirement of
uniformity, is binding upon us as a construction of a State
statute by the highest court of the State. While we are not
bound by the decision in the present case, that the section is
also invalid as to this company after the expiration of the time
to which the exemption of its property was limited by its
charter (Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; Bridge
Proprietors v. Hoboken Company, 1 Wall. 116), the decision
ought not to be overruled, unless it is clearly wrong. The delicate power which we have, under the Constitution of the
United States, over the judgments of the State courts, ought
always to be used with the greatest caution. There should be
no reversal of such judgments, unless the error is manifest.
The Constitution of Tennessee adopted in 1870 requires that
all property shall be taxed. After that Constitution went into
effect, no valid contract could be made with a corporation for
an exemption from taxation. So the emurts of Tennessee have

RAILROAD

COIPANIES V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Leld, and in so doing have established a rule of decision for us.
.he property of this company was only exempt by its charter
.ntil March 28, 1877. The Constitution did not and could
ot interfere with this exemption so long as it lasted. This
he Supreme Court of the State decided. To that extent the
laim of the company was sustained.
If nothing had been done until the charter exemption exired, it is clear that, under the construction which the courts
f the State have given the Constitution, no contract for the
axation of the company according to the provisions of the
leventh section of the act of 1875 could have been sustained.
he only question, therefore, which remains, is, whether in
.875 the legislature could contract for the surrender of the
emaining charter exemptions by binding the State not to tax
he company for ten years in any other manner than that proided for in sect. 11.
The Constitution has subjected all property in the State to
he burden of uniform taxation according to its value. So the
ourts of the State have decided. The legislature has no
iower to contract for relief from this burden. It could not do
1 for a money consideration, and if not for that, clearly not
or any other. This is one of the disabilities under which the
ieople of the State have placed their government. But for it
axes might have been commuted or they might have been
vithheld.
There is no doubt of the power of the legislature to contract
vith the company for a surrender of its charter exemptions in
way that did not involve a release from the constitutional
node of taxation after the charter exemption had expired.
5uch a release is, however, as we think, prohibited by the Contitution, as construed by the highest judicial authority in the
'tate.
This disposes of the case so far as the Memphis and Charleson company is concerned. It is not contended that the act of
.875, as amended in 1877, transcends the power of taxation
,llowed by the charter after the exemption of the road and its
,ppurtenances has expired, unless they are protected by the ex;mption of the capital stock. The Supreme Court of the State
;njoined all taxation prior to March 28, 1877, and decreed

Oct. 1878.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. (xAINES.

that the money paid under the provisions of the eleventh
section of the act of 1875 should be allowed as a credit upon
the taxes of 1877 and 1878, and the excess, if any, refunded
with interest. This, as we think, is all the company can require.
II. THE MOBILE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.

As to this company, the court decided that it was exempt
from taxation under its charter until April 22, 1886, and enjoined the assessment and collection of taxes under the laws of
1875 and 1877 until that date. The further provision of the
charter in respect to taxation so as to reduce dividends below
eight per cent was not passed upon below, and was not involved
in the decision as made. For this reason it cannot be considered by us.
IM. THE KNOXVILLE AND CHARLESTON RAILROAD
COIPANY.

The court below decided that this company did not by its
charter become entitled to the privilege of exemption from taxation, which was granted to the Nashville and Chattanooga
Company. If this be so, then the judgment was clearly right,
and no other question need be considered.
The Knoxville and Charleston Company, for the purpose of
making and using its road, was invested with all the powers,
rights, and privileges of the Nashville and Chattanooga Company.
In Humphrey v. Pegues (16 Wall. 244), we held that the
grant to one company of "all the powers, rights, and privileges"
of another, carried with it an exemption from taxation; but in
.Morgan v. Louisiana (93 U. S. 217), that such an exemption
did not pass by sale of the franchises of a railroad company.
In the last case, Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said,
"The franchises of a railroad corporation are rights or privileges which are essential to the operations of the corporation,
and without which its road and works would be of little value;
such as the franchise to run cars, to take tolls, to appropriate
earth and gravel for the bed of its road, or water for its engines,
and the like. They are positive rights and privileges, without

r12

RAMROAD COMPANIES v. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

,he possession of which the road of the company could not be
uccessfully worked. Immunity from taxation is not one of
fhem."
This seems to us conclusive of the present case. The grant
iere was not of all the rights and privileges of the Nashville
md Chattanooga Company, but of such as were necessary for
,he purpose of making and using the road, or, in other words,
he franchises of the company which do not include immunity
rom taxation.
On the whole, we find no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

