MACHINE CO. V. MURPHY.

[Sup. Or.

These considerations, we think, show that the contract in
question is very different from those which have been the subject of decision in the numerous cases cited. The Supreme
Court of Massachusetts so considered it in the case of lDittmar
v. Norman (118 Mass. 319), where this same agreement came
under consideration. That was an action brought by Dittmar
to recover the price of certain dualin manufactured by him
under the agreement of Jilly, 1871, and before the time when
it was alleged by Dittmar that the contract had been violated
by the Powder Company. The Powder Company claimed to
be the owner of the dualin, and forbade payment by the debtor
to Dittmar. The court held that the delivery of the materials to Dittmar did not create a bailment, that the title was
in him, and adjudged that he was entitled to recover.
We think the ruling at the trial was correct.
Judgment affirmed.

MACHE COMPANY v. MUiP11Y.
1. The substantial equivalent of a thing is, in the sense of the patent law, the
same as the thing itself. Two devices which perform the same function in
substantially the same way, and accomplish substantially the same result,
are therefore the same, though they may differ in name or form.
2. The combinaLtion, consisting of a fxed knife with a striker and the other
means employed to raise the striker and let it fall to perform the cutting
function, embraced by letters-patent No. 146,774, issued Jan. 27,1874, to Merrick Murphy, for an improvement in paper-bag machines, is substantially
the same thing as the ascending and descending cutting device embraced by
letters-patent No. 24,734, issued July 12, 1859, to William Goodale.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Missouri.
The Union Paper-Bag Machine Company, assignee of William Goodale, to whom letters-patent No. 24,734, for an improvement in machines for making paper-bags, were issued July
12, 1859, and subsequently extended, brought this suit to restrain Merrick Murphy and R. W. Murphy from infringing
said letters. The respondents justified under letters-patent
No. 146,774, issued Jan. 27, 1874, to Merrick Murphy.

Oct. 1877.]

MACHINE CO. V. MURPHY.

The court below dismissed the bill, whereupon the complainants appealed here.
The remaining facts are stated, and the respective machines
described, in the opinion of the court.
31r. George Harding for the appellants.
31r. Samzuel S. Boyd, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Rights secured to an inventor by letters-patent are property
which consists in the exclusive privilege of making and using
the invention, and of vending the same to others to be used, for
the period prescribed by the Patent Act; and the provision is,
that every patent and any interest therein shall be assignable
in law by an instrument in writing. Rev. Stat., sects. 4884,
4898.
Letters-patent No. 24,734, bearing date July 12, 1859, were
granted to William Goodale, for new and useful improvements
in machinery for making paper-bags, as more fully described
in the specification. Patents at that date were granted for the
period only of fourteen years; but the record shows that the
same was duly extended for the further term of seven years
from the expiration of the original term, and that the patentee,
on the 14th of July, two days subsequent to the extension of
the patent, by an instrument in writing, sold and assigned all
his right, title, and interest in the patent to the complainants,
who instituted the present suit. What they charge is that the
respondents are making and using the patented improvement,
the title to which they acquired by virtue of the aforesaid
written assignment.
Service was made; and the respondents appeared and filed an
answer, setting up several defences, all of which are abandoned
except the one denying the charge of infringement. Proofs
were taken; and the Circuit Court, having heard the parties,
entered a decree dismissing the bill of complaint. Prompt
appeal to this court was taken by the complainants; and they
now assign for error the decree of the Circuit Court in dismissing
the bill of complaint, it being conceded that it was dismissed
upon the ground that the charge of infringement was not
proved.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

MACHINE CO. V. MURPHY.

[Sup. Ct.

Machines for making paper-bags are old, as both sides admit;
and the evidence in this case shows that they have been constructed by many persons and in various forms for more than
twenty years, and with more or less utility. Neither party, in
this case, claims to be the original and first inventor of an entire machine of the kind; nor could such a claim, if made, be
sustained, in view of the admitted state of the art. Improvements in various parts of such a machine are claimed by the
assignor of the complainants; but, inasmuch as the charge of
infringement is confined to the first claim of the patent, it will
be sufficient to describe the nature and operation of the principal device embodied in that claim, without attempting to give
any minute description of the other parts of the machine.
Seven claims are annexed to the specification, the one in
question being described in substance and effect as follows:
Making the cutter which cuts the paper from the roll in such
form that in cutting off the paper it cuts it in the required form
to fold into a bag without further cutting out.
Such a machine, of course, has a frame which supports all its
parts, and it also has a table to support the paper as it is
unwound from the roll and moved forward under the cutter.
Prior to the operation, the roll is prepared, being of the proper
width to fold lengthwise and form the bag. Feed-rollers are
arranged in the machine, for moving the paper under the cutter
as it is unwound from the roll, the cutter being attached to a
horizontal bar, and working within vertical guides erected on
opposite sides of the machine. Operating vertically, as the
cutter does, it will be sufficient to state that it derives its upward movement from two cams on a constantly rotating horizontal shaft, and that it descends by its own weight, which is
sufficient to cause the cutting of the paper by the cutter, the
descent taking place during the intermissions between the
feeding movements of the paper.
Devices and means for forming the bag of the desired length
and width are also shown in the specification and drawings, together with the devices and means for effecting the side-lapping
over the device called the former, and the devices and means
for pasting one edge of the same by passing it over a pasteroller, which causes it to adhere so as to form the seam when

Oct. 1877.]

MACHINE

0.

V. MURPHY.

the edges of the blank are folded over by the lappers. Both
the sides of the blank, so called, and the lap at the bottom are
pasted by the means described in the specification; but it is
unnecessary to enter into these details in this investigation, as
the charge of infringement is limited to the first claim.
Evidence of a satisfactory character is exhibited to show that
the assignor of the complainants was the first person to organize an operative machine to make paper-bags from a roll of
paper in the flat sheet by a transverse cut across the same with
a knife having five planes, so that the blanks, so called, when
cut and folded, will present a paper-bag of the form and description given in the specification and drawings of the patent.
Wide differences exist in the arrangement of the devices
composing the operative parts of the respondents' machine in
question, from those exhibited in the machine of the complainants; but the frames are not substantially different, and the
machine of the respondents has two uprights which afford bearings for the shaft and for the roller on which the paper is
wound, and for two sets of feed-rollers which perform the same
function as the feed-rollers in the complainants' patent. Instead of the cutter arranged to ascend and descend, as described
in the complainants' specification, the respondents have a knife
with a serrated edge, which is attached to the bed beneath the
shaft on a line with the feed-rollers, lying on its side, so that
the paper, when moved by the rollers, will pass freely over it,
as it extends slightly beyond the edge of the bed. Being
attached to the bed, the knife, though it is substantially in the
form of the cutter employed in the complainants' machine,
neither rises nor falls, nor would it perform any function whatever in the machine were it not for the striker, which is a
straight piece of metal with a blunt edge made to revolve with
the shaft, which, by the aid of certain other devices, first
causes it to rise, and then throws it sharply down in such a
manner that it makes a vertical blow upon the paper, causing
the knife to sever it as effectually as the cutter does in the complainants' machine, showing that the two devices, to wit, the
knife and the striker, operating together, perform the exact
same function as that performed in the complainants' machine
by the ascent and descent of the cutter.

MACkINE CO. V. MURPHY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument to show that the form of the knife and the cutter
are substantially the same is quite unnecessary, as that is proved
to a demonstration by a comparison of the two devices. Nor
can it make any difference that the cutter is made to cut the
paper by its own gravity, while the knife is made to cut by the
fall of a device which performs no other function than to fall
upon the paper at the proper moment, and cause the stationary
knife to cut for the same purpose.
Decided support to that proposition is found in the testimony
of the expert witness examined for the complainants. He testifies that he finds in the patent of the respondents the representation of a cutter for forming paper-bags, so shaped that, in
the operation of separating the blanks from the roll of paper in
the formation of bags, it will perform the same function as the
cutter in the complainants' machine; giving as his reason for
the conclusion, that the serrated edge of the knife, as it is there
called, is so shaped as to form a blank for the bags, so that the
seam may be made in the middle of the bag, and that the bottom is provided with a lap so that both parts may be firmly
pasted together, and the top provided with a lip for the convenience of opening the bag when it is used.
Explanations of a valuable character are also made by the
same witness in respect to the particular form of the knife employed by the respondents in their machine when used to form
the lip at the top or bottom of the bag. Speaking of the fact
that the knife used by the respondents has serrations or teeth
of different degrees of depth, he says that their outer points all
coincide with the same straight line across the paper, and that
the operation of cutting, when it has progressed to the depth
of the small teeth in the knife, becomes substantially the same
as that performed by the cutter in the complainants' machine,
for the reason that the rest of the cutting is continued by a
series of cutting edges that have a lap at the bottom and a lip
at the top, or, in other words, the cutting that is commenced in
a straight line ceases as soon as the small teeth cease to cut, and
then the coarser teeth continue the cutting operation down to
their full extent, and constitute a cutter substantially like the
one employed in the complainants' machine.
Suppose the explanation last given is too theoretical for prac-

Oct. 1877.]*

MACHINE Co. V. MURPHY.

tical application, still we are all of the opinion that the knife
and the striker employed by the respondents perform substantially the same function as the cutter in the complainants'
machine, with the devices for raising it up and letting it drop
upon the paper as it is moved forward by the rollers.
Except where form is of the essence of the invention, it has
but little weight in the decision of such an issue, the correct
rule being that, in determining the question of infringement,
the court or jury, as the case may be, are not to judge about
similarities or differences by the names of things, but are to
look at the machines or their several devices or elements in the
light of what ihey do, or what office or function they perform,
and how they perform it, and to find that one thing is substantially the same as another, if it performs substantially the same
function in substantially the same way to obtain the same result, always bearing in mind that devices in a patented machine
are different in the sense of the patent law when they perform
different functions or in a different way, or produce a substantially different result.
Nor is it safe to give much heed to the fact that the corresponding device in two machines organized to accomplish
the same result is different in shape or form the one from
the other, as it is necessary in every such investigation to
look at the mode of operation or the way the device works, and
at the result, as well as at the means by which the result is
attained.
Inquiries of this kind are often attended with difficulty; but
if special attentioii is given to such portions" of a given device
as really does the work, so as not to give undue importance
to other parts of the same which are only used as a convenient
mode of constructing the entire device, the difficulty attending
the investigation will be greatly diminished, if not entirely overcome. Cahoon v. Ring, 1 Cliff. 620.
Authorities concur that the substantial equivalent of a thing,
in the sense of the patent law, is the same as the thing itself; so
that if two devices do the same work in substantially the same
way, and accomplish substantially the same result, they are the
same, even though they differ in name, form, or shape. Curtis,
Patents (4th ed.), sect. 310.

ELIZABETH V. PAVEMENT

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Apply that principle to the case before court, and it is clear
that the knife in the respondents' machine, when considered
in connection with the striker, is substantially the same thing
as the cutter in the machine of the complainants when put in
operation by the means employed to raise it and let it fall to
perform the cutting function, without which the machine would
be of no value.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that the decree of
the Circuit Court is erroneous, even if the construction of the
patent is that which the respondents assume it to be, as they
do not contend that the claim for the cutter used by the complainants, as embodied in the first claim of their patent, is
invalid.
The decree will be reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to enter a decree in favor of the complainants, and
for further proceedings in conformity -with the opinion of this
court; and it is
So ordered.

ELIZABETH v. PAVEMENT COMPANY.
1. A foreign patent or publication describing an invention, unless published anterior to the making of the invention or discovery secured by letters-patent
issued by the United States, is no defence to a suit upon them.
2. The presumption arising from the oath of the applicant that he believes himself to be the first inventor or discoverer of the thing for which he seeks
letters-patent remains until the contrary is proved.
3 The use of an invention by the inventor, or by persons under his direction, if made in good faith, solely in order to test its qualities, remedy
its defects, and bring it to perfection, is not, although others thereby
derive a knowledge of it, a public use of it, within the meaning of
the patent law, and does not preclude him from obtaining letters-patent
therefor.
4 Samuel Nicholson having, in 1847, invented a new and useful improvement
in wooden pavements, and fied in the Patent Office a caveat of his invention, put down in 1854, as an experiment, his wooden pavement on a street
in Boston, where it was exposed to public view and travelled over for
several years, and it proving successful, he, Aug. 7, 1854, obtained letterspatent therefor. Held, 1. That there having been no public use or sale
of the invention, he was entitled to such letters-patent. 2. That they
were not avoided by English letters-patent for the same invention, enrolled
in 1850.

