INSURANCE

O. v. LEWIS.

[Sup. Ct.

pany's case has no applicability to the one we have now in
hand.
I have said enough to indicate the reasons for my dissent.
To me they appear very grave. In my judgment, the decision
of the court denies the power of a State legislature to legalize,
during a limited period, that which without its action would
be a nuisance. It enables a subsequent legislature to take
away, without compensation, rights which a former one has
accorded, in the most positive terms, and for which a valuable
consideration has been paid. And, in its application to the
present case, it renders it impossible to remove from Chicago
the vast bodies of animal offal there accumulated; for if the
ordinance of Hyde Park can stand, every other municipality
around the city can enforce similar ordinances.

INSURANCE CoirPAzY v. LEWIS.
The statute of mssouri of 1868 (1 Wagner's Stat., ed. 1872, p. 122, sect. 8) does
not authorize a suit by a public administrator in that State against a foreign
insurance company doing business there, to enforce the payment of a policy
of insurance, not made or to be executed in that State, upon the life of a citizen of Wisconsin, who neither resided, died, nor left any estate in Missouri.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. Everett TV. Pattisonfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. D. S. JDryden, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAff delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced in the Circuit Court of St. Louis
County, Missouri, by Lewis, the defendant in error, as public
administrator of that county, upon a policy of insurance dated
July 30, 1873, whereby the Union Mutual Life Insurance
Company of Maine agreed to insure the life of William S.
Berton, "of Milwaukee, County of Milwaukee, State of Wisconsin," in the sum of $5,000, payable three months after due

Oct. 1878.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. LEWIS.

proof of death, to his executors, administrators, or assigns.
The case was removed for trial into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, where a
verdict and judgment were rendered against the company.
A new trial and motion in arrest of judgment having both
been denied, the present writ of error is prosecuted by the
company.
A preliminary question is pres ented as to the right of the
defendant in error, as public administrator of St. Louis County,
Missouri, to maintain any action whatever upon the policy
sued on. His authority in the premises is claimed to exist
under a Missouri statute of 1868, which was in force when
this action was instituted. That statute makes it "the duty
of the public administrator to take into his charge and custody
the estates of all deceased persons in his county, in the following instances: First, When a stranger dies intestate in the
county, without relatives, or dies leaving a will, and the executor named is absent, or fails to qualify; second, when persons
die intEstate, without any known heirs; third, when persons
unknown die, or are found dead, in the county; fourth, when
money, property, papers, or other estate are left in a situation
exposed to loss or damage, and no other person administers on
the same; fifth, when any estate of any person who dies intestate therein or elsewhere is left in the county liable to be
injured, wasted, or lost, when said intestate does not leave a
known husband, widow, or heir in this State; sixth, when from
any good cause said court shall order him to take possession
of any estate to prevent its being injured, wasted, purloined, or
lost." 1 Wagner's Stat., ed. 1872, p. 122. The same statute requires the public administrator, immediately upon taking charge
of any estate, for the purpose of administering the same (except
that of which he shall take charge under the order of the proper
court), to file a notice of such fact in the clerk's office of the
court having probate jurisdiction. Id. p. 123.
On 17th September, 1875, the defendant in error, as public
administrator, filed in the clerk's office of the Probate Court
of St. Louis County a notice, addressed to the judge of that
court, informing creditors and all other persons interested in
the estate of William S. Berton, "late of the county of St.

INSURANCE

Co. V. LEWIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Louis," that he had, on that day, taken charge of such estate,
for the purpose of administering the same; and immediately
thereafter, on the same day, commenced this action in the
Circuit Court of that county, without making and presenting
proofs of loss, or giving the company previous notice of his
administration, or that he, as such administrator, asserted any
claim under the policy. These steps were taken, as was conceded on the trial below, "for the sole purpose of administering upon and collecting the policy in suit." It also appears
that Berton, at the date of the policy, and at his death, which
occurred on 81st March, 1874, was a resident of Milwaukee
and a citizen of Wisconsin; that he died in that city, and had
not at any time resided in the State of Missouri; that he left
no money, property, papers, or other estate in Missouri; that
the policy sued on was found among his papers after his death ;
that on 5th June, 1874, administration upon his estate was
granted by the County Court of Milwaukee County, Wisconsin,
to Benjamin K. Miller; that the defendant in error was never
ordered by the Probate Court of St. Louis County, or any other
court, to take charge of Berton's estate.
The bare statement of these facts, which are admitted or
are clearly proven, is enough to show an absolute want of
authority in Lewis to take charge of or administer the estate
of Berton. His collection, by suit, of the amount, if any, due
from the company upon the policy sued on, or any administration by him, in his capacity as public administrator, of Berton's
estate, would be acts of palpable usurpation. Tne notice filed
by him in the clerk's office of the Probate Court was ineffective
for any purpose, although it contained the false recital that
Berton was "late of the county of St. Louis." Such a notice
was required only when he took charge of an estate upon which
he could legally administer. No judgment rendered in this
action, upon the merits, could protect the company against a
future suit by the proper representatives of Berton's estate.
This would not be the case if Lewis's claim to administer that
estate had any sound foundation upon which to rest. It was
not the purpose of the statute to authorize a suit by a public
administrator in Missouri against a foreign corporation doing
business there, upon a contract, not made or to be executed in

)ct. 1878.]

INSURANCE

CO. v. LEWIS.

;hat State, with a citizen of another State who neither resided
2or died, nor left any estate, in Missouri. Without discussing
;he validity of any local statute framed for such purposes as
ire imputed, by this action, to the Missouri statute of 1868, it
Ls sufficient to say that the present case is not within that
3tatute, according to any reasonable interpretation of its provisions.
It is claimed, however, that this view cannot be sustained
without questioning the authority of the public administrator
in a collateral proceeding. In support of that position we are
referred to Wetzell v. Waters, 18 Mo. 396; Biley's Adm'r v. HeCord'sAdm'r, 24 id. 266 ; Lancaster,Adm'r, v. WVashington Life
Insurance Co. of New York, 62 id. 121; and Johnson v. Beazley,
55 id. 250. We have not access, at this time, to the volume of
reports last cited, but upon examining the other cases we find
nothing which, in any degree, militates against the views we
have expressed. In the case in 18 Mo. a judgment, by default,
had been taken, and the question was presented, upon appeal,
whether it was incumbent upon the public administrator, in
whose favor the judgment was rendered, to state in his pleadings, or to prove, as a condition precedent to recovery, the facts
which authorized him to take upon himself the burden of administration. It was held that it was not, and that no one but
an executor, or legally appointed administrator, could dispute
his authority, except in cases in which the same thing might
be done in relation to private administrations. In the case in
24 Mo. it was decided that illegality in the grant of the letters of
administration could not be taken advantage of in a collateral
proceeding, and that they must be regarded as valid until regularly revoked.
In the case of 62 Mo. the issue was as to the fact of the death
of a citizen of Missouri, whose life had been insured, and upon
whose estate administration had been granted by the Probate
Court of St. Louis County, which was the county of his residence. The answer admitted the appointment of the adminisbrator, but denied the fact of death, and, upon that ground,
questioned the legality of such appointment. The court held
that the admissions in the pleadings and the testimony of the
defendant established the fact of letters of administration having

INSURANCE Co. v. LEWIS.

[Sup. Or.

been granted, and that such letters constituting prima facie
evidence of the death of the person on whose estate they were
issued, the burden of proof was upon the defendant to show
that the assured was not dead, and consequently that administration had been illegally granted. These decisions, it is
obvious, have no application to the subject under consideration.
They announce no principles in conflict with those here declared.
The company does not ask the revocation of Lewis's letters of
administration. Its answer does not dispute the validity of his
appointment as public administrator of St. Louis County. Recognizing his right to perform all the functions which, by the
laws of Missouri, pertain to that office, the company, in view
of the facts we have stated, simply denies that Lewis had any
authority, under the statutes of that State or by virtue of his
appointment as such administrator, to take charge of the particular estate in question, or assert any claim arising out of the
alleged contract of insurance. If the mere assumption by Lewis
of authority to that extent was sufficient prima facie to maintain this action,-a proposition which it is unnecessary to
discuss,- the conceded and established facts show an entire
absence of any such authority, and prove that the company was
not bound to litigate with him, in any court whatever, its liability upon the policy sued on. The company only sought to
restrict him to the discharge of his legitimate duties, and prevent him from intermeddling in matters which did not concern
him as public administrator.
But it is further contended that the answer, which relied
upon these objections to the action, was in the nature of a plea
in abatement, and that such objections were, according to established rules of practice in the Federal courts, waived when the
company answered to the merits without first having the court
dispose of the issue as to Lewis's right to maintain the action.
This position is, however, wholly untenable. The defence, so
far as it impeached the authority of Lewis, by virtue of his
appointment as public administrator, to collect the amount, if
any, due on the policy, was in bar, not in abatement,.of the
action. The defence, if true, did not question his capacity
as such administrator to perform any of the duties imposed
upon him by law. It only insisted that he, as such lawfully

Oct. 1878.]

MATTINGLY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

appointed administrator, had no cause of action against the
company upon the alleged contract of insurance.
What we have said is decisive of the case, and we are consequently relieved from the necessity of inquiring whether the
policy sued on was ever delivered to or accepted by Berton,
so as to be binding upon the insurance company. That question can only arise in an action against the company by one
who is entitled by law to represent his estate.
The judgment will be reversed, with directions to dismiss
the action without prejudice to any suit upon the policy by
the proper parties in the proper forum; and it is
So ordered.

MATTINGLY

v.

DISTRICT OF COLU3EBIA.

1. Congress, in exercising legislation over property and persons within the District of Columbia, may, provided no intervening rights are thereby impaired,
confirm the proceedings of an officer in the District, or of a subordinate
municipality, or other authority therein, which, without such confirmation,
would be void.
2. An act of Congress, approved June 19, 1878 (20 Stat. 166), entitled "An Act
to provide for the revision and correction of assessments for special improvements in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes," considered, with
reference to the preceding legislation of Congress and of the legislative
assembly of said District. Held, 1. That said act was practically a confirmation of the doings of the board of public works of the District, touching
the improvement of streets and roads, and a ratification of the assessments
prepared under an act of said assembly of Aug. 10, 1871, as charges upon
the adjoining property, and that it conferred authority upon the commissioners to revise and correct such assessments within thirty days after the
passage of the act. 2. That such confirmation was as binding and effectual
as if authority had been originally conferred by law to direct the improvements and make the assessments.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

31r. .Richard T. llerrick and Mr. T. A. Lambert for the
appellant.
Mr. A. G. Biddle, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts of this case appear in the bill, the answer, and the

