GRAY

v.

BLANCHARD.

[Sup. Ot.

other inventions made prior to such alteration, or to appropriate that which has, in the mean time, gone into public use.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to enter a decree dismissing
the bill of complaint; and it is
So ordered.

GRAY v. BLANCHAID.
A writ of error sued out upon a judgment on a money demand will be dismissed
where it affirmatively appears from the record, taken as a whole, that the
amount actually in dispute is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.

MoTIoN to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Michigan.
Mr. . J. Smiley, for the defendants in error, in support of
the motion.
Hr. J. W. Stone, contra.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MR. ClmF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error sued out by the defendant below,
when the judgment against him upon a money demand was for
only $1,118.71. Primafacie this is the measure of our jurisdiction in favor of the present plaintiff in error; but he still
thinks we must retain the cause, as the record shows that,
having pleaded the general issue, he gave notice of set-off,
claiming $10,000. It is true that such notice was given, but
it is shown affirmatively by the record that the only dispute
upon the trial under the notice was as to a single item, of the
amount of $446. In short, the bill of exceptions shows distinctly that the only controversy between the parties was in
respect to a claim by the plaintiff below of about $2,000, and
by the defendant (plaintiff in error) as to this item of set-off.
In his application for the removal of the cause from the State
court to the Circuit Court, the plaintiff in error made this
statement, to wit: "The matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive

Oct. 1878.]

GRAY v. BLANCHARD.

of costs, the sum of $500, and is of the value of $2,000;" and
the judge, in his charge to the jury, alluded to the fact that
the amount in controversy was not sufficient to entitle the parties to a review in this court.
In Lee v. Matson (1 Wall. 837), it was held that "in an
action upon a money demand, where the general issue is pleaded,
the matter in dispute is the debt claimed; and its amount, as
stated in the body of the declaration, and not merely the damages alleged, or the prayer for judgment, at its conclusion,
must be considered in determining whether this court can take
jurisdiction." To the same effect is S'chacker v. Rartford Fire
Insuranee Co. (93 U. S. 241), where we dismissed a case in
which it appeared that the action was upon a policy of insurance for $1,400, because, although damages to our jurisdictional amount were claimed, it was apparent from the whole
record that there could not be a recovery for more than the
amount of the policy, and a small sum in addition for interest.
The principles upon which those cases rest are decisive of
this. While in the absence of any thing to the contrary the
prayer for judgment by the plaintiff, in his declaration or complaint, upon a demand for money only, or by the defendant in
his counter-claim or set-off, will be taken as indicating the
amount in dispute, yet if the actual amount in dispute does
otherwise appear in the record, reference may be had to that
for the purpose of determining our jurisdiction. Ordinarily
this will be found in the pleadings, but we need not necessarily
confine ourselves to them. We hear the case upon the record
which is sent up, and if, taking the whole record together, it
appears that we have no jurisdiction, the case must be dismissed. Here it is affirmatively shown that the value of the
"matter in dispute" is less than our jurisdictional amount.
The motion to dismiss will therefore be granted, and it is
So ordered.

