HYNDMAN

V. RoOmS.

[Sup. Ct

HnYNDnhAf v. ROOTS.
This case involves merely questions of fact; and the court finds that letterspatent No. 106,165, granted Aug. 9, 1870, to William G. Hyndman, f ,r an
"improvement in rotary blowers," infringe the first, second, third, and fourth
claims of reissued letters-patent No. 3570, granted July 27, 1869, to P. H.
Roots and F. A. Roots, for an "improvement in cases for rotary blowers,"
upon the surrender of original letters No. 80,010, dated Aug. 11, 1868.

APPnAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The drawings of the machines of the respective parties
therein referred to are as follows: P. H. & F. Al. ROOTs.
ROTARY

BLOWER

Reissued July 27, 1869.
No. 3570.

CASE.

Oct. 1877.]

HYNDM NI V. ROOTS.

W. G.

HYNDmAN.

ROTARY

BLOWER.

Patented Aug. 9, 1870.
No. 106,165.

10'i
VOL, VII.

-----------------------------L

HYNDBIAN

V. ROOTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Xr. B. B. Wood for the appellant.
Mr. James Moore, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a case in equity. The bill is founded upon two patents. One of them is reissue No. 3570. It bears date on the
27th of July, 1869. The original of this reissue-No. 81,010bore date on the 11th of August, 1868. The other patent is
dated June 21, 1870. It is numbered 104,585, and was issued
to the appellees as the assignees of Hardy and Wood, the
alleged inventors.
The bill was dismissed, as to this latter patent, at the hearing,
and no appeal was taken. It may, therefore, be laid out of view,
and will not be again adverted to. The other original patent and
the reissue are for improvements in cases for rotary blowers.
The bill charges infringement, and prays for an injunction
and a decree for profits and damages. The answer denies the
novelty of the alleged invention; denies that the reissue is for
the same thing as the original patent; denies that the complainants were joint inventors, if inventors at all; and denies
infringement.
Such were the issues made by the appellant in the court
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE

Oct. 1877.]

O

.YNDMANV.

ROOTS.

below. 'That court found all of them in favor of the appellees,:
and decreed accordingly.
Here the same points have been insisted upon.
In relation to all of them, except the one last mentioned, we
deem it sufficient to say that we concur with the court below.
We think the evidence leaves no room for a reasonable doubt
as to either of them. The questions are questions of fact. No
legal proposition is involved. To analyze the testimony in,
order to vindicate our conclusions would serve no useful purpose. Our further remarks will be confined to the subject of
infringement. That is the hinge of the controversy between
the parties.
It is difficult to convey clear ideas of complex machinery by
any description that can be given. Drawings are more effectual,
and models are still more so. If the model be full and accurate,
it is, indeed, the thing itself in miniature.
The appellees, as the case is before us, confine their claims to
improvements in the shell or case of blowers. The internal
mechanism is in no wise in question. They say the objects of
their invention were to avoid the necessity of boring out the
interior concave surfaces of the case, and of facing off or planing
the head-plates, and to render it practicable to cast the entire
outside casing in one piece. They describe two modes of making the blower-heads true. One is to form them into planes at
right angles to the shafts of the abutments, parallel with each
other, equidistant from each other in all their parts, by giving
to the inner surface of each plate a coating of plaster of Paris,
hydraulic cement, or other material, having like plastic properties. This is suited to blowers of the smaller sizes. When
this method is used, the plaster of Paris may be put on while in
a plastic condition, by means of a sweep made to turn in the
boxes of the blower-shafts, so that it will shape the linings of
the ends as may be desired.
The second method is to use inside or secondary metal plates
made in their outlines to conform to the interior of the case, and
to face or plane them off so as to make them perfectly true.
A space is left between these secondary plates and the ends
of the case, which is filled with plaster of Paris of the proper
consistency. After the plaster has set, the plates are secured

IIYNDMAN

V. ROOTS.

[S-31p. Ct.

in their places in any suitable manner. In making the inner
surface of the arcs of the case true, the usual way of the
patentees is to work from -the centre of the shaft-journals as
fixed points.
They give the inner part of the concaves a coating of plaster
of Paris, and work it into the proper shape and proportions
while it is setting, by means of a sweep attached to a shaft
turning in the journal-boxes of the blower, as in the case of the
head-plates when plaster is applied to them. While the plaster or other sinilat material is becoming set, they slowly move
the sweep, so as to give the coating exactly the required shape
and thickness. Sometimes, instead of using the sweep, they
use a cylinder of a diameter corresponding with the sweep or
the circles to be described by the pistons. The cylinder is
hung on a central shaft resting in the journal-boxes. The
plaster is then poured into the intervening space between
the cylinder and the case and the "metal guards,"-which
are small projections on the inner surface of the case, intended to support the coating. When the plaster is set
the cylinder is removed, and leaves the required arcs of a
circle.
They do not cast very large blowers in a single piece. Those
ordinarily used by blacksmiths and medium-sized foundry
blowers are so cast.
If the case of a rotary blower be cast in one piece, it is
necessary that the concave arcs of the case should be of such
dimensions, and so placed on one side of the plane of the axis of
the shafts, as to allow the removal of enough of the head-plates
of the case to afford a sufficient opening for the introduction or
removal of the abutments without interfering with any part of
the case otherwise than to remove or replace the boxing which
holds the shafts. By making the concave arcs a little more
than a quarter of a circle, and placing them chiefly on one side
of the plane of the shafts, the opening on the opposite side of
the plane is correspondingly increased, allowing ample room
for putting in and taking out the abutments, and also allowing
the reduction of the end-plates on the open side of the plane,
where they would otherwise interfere. If the concave arcs
were materially increased and divided near equally on the

Oct. 1877.]

HYNDMAN V. ROOTS.

two sides of the plane of the shafts, the abutments of a
case so made could not be taken out or replaced without
taking the case apart, and the case would need to be made
accordingly.
The claims are, 1. A rotary blower-case, the interior of which is made true
by means of plaster of Paris, or its equivalent, applied as
described.
2. Such a blower-case, the ends of which are made true by
the application of plaster, or a like material, as described.
3. Such a blower-case, the concaves of which are made true
by the use of such material, applied as described.
4. Such a blower-case, having the concave arcs in combination with the end-plates, so arranged as to admit of the abutments being introduced or removed without requiring the case
to be taken apart, as described.
5. A rotary blower-case, the ends of vhich are made true by
the use of secondary inside metal plates, as and for the purposes
described.
6. The metal guards in the inside of the concaves, as described.
The specification sets forth in strong terms the great value of
the invention claimed.
There is a marked difference between a fan blower and a
rotary blower. They operate on different principles. The
former makes from one hundred to three hundred revolutions
per minute; the latter, from three thousand to six thousand in
the same time. The appellees are the original inventors of the
rotary blower. Such is their proof, and there is none to the
contrary. Its value in the useful arts is evinced by its tested
capabilities, and the ardor of this litigation. No patent of the
appellees is in any wise involved in this controversy but the one
we have .analyzed.
The appellant has a patent also. It bears date on the 9th of
August, 1870, and is No. 106,165. It covers both the shell or
case and the inner machinery. The claims are for, "1. The blower-case A, made to support the abutting pistons, the circle or sweep of which in the surrounding case is
lined with a cement of beeswax and resin or brimstone, retained

HYNDMAN v. ROOTS.

[Sup. Ct.

without the use of guards or ledges; all substantially as herein
set forth.
"2. The pistons B B, composed of the blades C C, guards E E,
concavities D D, with the lining applied in a liquid condition,
while heated, to form a continuous contact of the blade surfaces; all substantially as herein set forth."
The specification refers three times to the invention of the
appellees. It says, with respect to the shell, "the upper section is cast in one piece, without the ordinary guards or ridges
used to hold a lining, such as is set forth in the patent of P. H.
and F. M. Roots, dated Aug. 11, 1868. . . . I am aware blowercases have been made, all cast in one piece, such as are shown
in the patents of P. H. and F. M. Roots. I do not, therefore,
claim a blower-case broadly. I am also aware that plaster of
Paris has been used in lining blower-cases, as described in the
patents of P. H. and F. M. Roots of Aug. 11, 1868. I do not,
therefore, claim the lining of blower-cases broadly. What I do
claim is," &c. He then sets forth his claims as we have quoted
them.
It is difficult to read the specifications of the parties in the
presence of the models, and resist the conviction that the appellant has carefully studied the invention of the appellees as
described in their reissue, not with any view to its improvement, but solely for the purpose of evasion. It is not, however,
what the appellant has said in his specification with which we
have to do in this controversy. What he has done affecting the
rights of the appellees is the material point, and we pass to the
consideration of that subject. His patent is not without value
as an auxiliary in that process.
The appellees' first, second, and third claims, with respect to
the alleged infringement, may'be considered together. They
are for truing the interior of the case by means of plaster of
Paris, or its equivalent, applied as described; for truing the
end-plates in the same way, and for truing the concaves or arcs
of. the circles by the same means. The material to be used is
"plaster of Paris, hydraulic cement, or other material having
the properties referred to." These properties are plasticity
when the material is applied, and firmness and brittleness
afterwards. The reducing or truing process is also included

Oct. 1877.]

HYNDMAN

V. ROOTS.

in these claims. The appellant did all that is embraced in
these claims. What was done differs in nothing from the process and other means employed by the appellees, except that he
used a compound of glycerine and litharge instead of plaster of
Paris. The former is a mere equivalent for the latter. Both
are plastic when applied. Both become indurated afterwards.
No chemical change takes place in either, and time alone is
necessary to produce the desired hardness of the substance.
The compound used by the appellant is clearly within the
alternative terms of the specification of the appellees in this
respect. The proofs in the record on all these points are so
conclusive, that it would be a waste of time to pursue the
subject further. The appellant is guilty of infringing these
claims.
The essence of the fourth claim is a combination of the
arcs with the end-plates, so arranged as to permit the abutments to be put in or taken out without taking the case
apart. The peculiar features and advantages of what is embraced in this claim are clearly set forth in the testimony in
the record.
The end-plates have no contraction at the opening for the
admission of air. They therefore permit, without further
change, so far as they are concerned, the removal of the
pistons. The concave arcs are reduced to less than half a
circle, and so provide at the air entrance a space sufficient to
permit the introduction or withdrawal of the pistons without
disturbing the case. The introduction of the sweep, and its
necessary operation upon the plastic material, are, also, thus
provided for. The air entrance, which is bounded by the ends
of the arcs and the end-plates, permits the lining to be renewed
at pleasure. The case, by reason of the contraction of the arcs
and the configuration of the end-plates, permits the requisite
shaping of the plastic material by sweeps or otherwise, so as
to make the arcs perfectly true, and the end linings exactly
at right angles with them. All the difficulties previously
experienced in the c6nstruction of double-cylinder rotary
blowers are thus obviated. This is regarded as an important
result.
Turning now to the appellant's shell or case, the evidence

HYNDMIAN V. ROOTS.

[Sup. Ct.

shows that the concaves or arcs are less than half a circle in
extent. The revolving pistons act against them in combination
with the end-plates, which have no interior projections. The
entire case is such as to admit of its being cast in one piece,
and to admit also of the introduction and removal of the pistons,
without the .case being taken apart. It is of such a chhracter
as to permit in its complete state the introduction of the sweep,
and its full operation upon the plastic material intended to be
applied to the arcs and the end-plates. This is regarded as
one of the most valuable features of the appellees' invention.
The appellant's case is cast in two parts. There is a joint or
division on the axial plane through the journal-boxes. It is in
proof that this is neither reasonable nor necessary. Where the
case is large, and too heavy for convenient handling, it may be
useful, and for such cases it is suggested in the patent of the
appellees. The patent of the appellant prescribes it for all his
cases, and he so makes them. Why is this, and what are his
object and purpose? We can imagine none but to gather
where another had sown, and escape by simulation and subterfuge the consequences which the act of Congress has prescribed for the unlawful appropriation of such property.
There, is scarcely a thought expressed in the work of the
appellees, so to speak, that is not found substantially transferred or closely copied in that of the appellant.
The points of identity are palpable and conclusive, The
proofs leave no doubt in our minds that the appellant is guilty
of the infringement of this claim, as well as of the first, second,
and third. This controversy does not concern the appellees'
fifth and sixth claims.

Decree qifrmed.

