Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING

Co. v. HYDE

PARK.

taken under the provisional government, and it will not for a
moment be presumed that this specially deserving class of settlers were alone to be incumbered by such a restriction on
their title.
In conclusion, we hold that the conveyance by Waymire and
wife, after they had secured the right to a patent, but before
the patent had issued, pass6d the fee, or an equitable right to
the fee, to their grantee, and consequently that there was no
error in the court below.
Judgment affirmed.

FERTILaznG COMTANY v. HYD

PARK.

An act of the General Assembly of Illinois, approved March 8, 1867, incorporating the Northwestern Fertilizing Company, with continued succession
and existence for the term of fifty years, authorized and empowered it to
establish and maintain in Cook County, Illinois, at any point south of the
dividing line between townships 37 and 38, chemical and other works, "for
the purpose of manufacturing and converting dead animals and other animal matter into an agricultural fertilizer, and into other chemical products,.
by means of chemical, mechanical, and other processes," and to establish and
maintain depots in the city of Chicago, in said county, "for the purpose of
receiving and carrying off from and out of said city any and all offal, dead
animals, and other animal matter which it might buy or own, or which might
be delivered to it by the city authorities and other persons." The works,
owned by the proprietors thereof before they were incorporated, were located
within the designated territory, at a place then swampy and nearly uninhabited, but now forming a part of the village of Hyde Park; and the company
established and maintained depots in Chicago. In March, 1869, the legislature passed an act revising the charter of that village, and granting to it the
largest powers of police and local government; among them, to "define or
abate nuisances which are, or may be, injurious to the public health," provided that the sanitary and police powers thereby conferred should not be
exercised against the Northwestern Fertilizing Company in said village until,
the full expiration of two years from and after the passage of said act.
l
Nov. 29, 1872, the village authorities adopted the following ordinance: "N o
person shall transfer, carry, haul, or convey any offal, dead animals, or other
offensive or unwholesome matter or material, into or through the village of
Hyde Park. Any person who shall be in charge of or employed upon any
train or team car-ying or conveying such matter or material into or through
the village of Hyde Park shall be subject to a fine of not less than five nor
more than fifty dollars for each offence;" and Jan. 8,1873, caused the engineer
and other employds of a railway company, which was engaged in carrying the
offal fn)m the city through the village to the chemical works, to be arrested

660

FERTILIZING CO. V. HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ct.

and tried for violating the ordinance. They were convicted, and fined fifty
dollars each; whereupon the company filed this bill to restrain further prosecutions, and for general relief. Held, 1. That nothing passed by the charter
of the company but what was granted in express terms or by necessary intendment. 2. That the charter, although, until revoked, a sufficient license, was
not a contract guaranteeing that the company, notwithstanding its business
might become a nuisance by reason of the growth of population around the
place originally selected for its works, should for fifty years be exempt from
the exercise of the police power of the State. 3. That the charter affords the
company no protection from the enforcement of the ordinance.

E ROiR to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois.
The Northwestern Fertilizing Company, a corporation created by an act of the legislature of Illinois, approved March 8,
1867, filed its bill in equity to restrain the village of Hyde
Park, in Cook County, Illinois, from enforcing the provisions
of an ordinance of that village, which the company claims impairs the obligation of its charter. The bill also prayed for
general relief. The Supreme Court of that State affirmed the
decree of the Circuit Court of Cook County dismissing the bill;
whereupon the company sued out this writ of error.
The charter of the company and the ordinance complained of
are, with the facts which gave rise to the suit, set forth in the
opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Leonard Swett for the plaintiff
in error.
1. The charter confers upon the officers and agents of the
company immunity from public prosecution for acts thereby authorized. Trustees v. Utica, 6 Barb. (N. Y.) 313; Harris v.
Thompson, 9 id. 3; People v. Law, 34 id. 514; Stoughton v. State,
5 Wis. 297; Niederhouse v. State, 28 Ind. 258; 1 Hilliard,
Torts, 550. The acts for the commission of which the railway
employds were fined were, by the express terms of the charter,
authorized. The company engaged them to transport the animal matter from its receiving depots in Chicago to the chemical
works, which it had erected at a point confessedly within the
limits designateA. No other railroad touches at those works,
and the company thus used the only means for promptly conveying from the city such matter to its rightful destination.
2. The charter, having been accepted by the company, is a
contract with the State which the latter has no power to repeal,

Oct. 1878]

FERTILIZING CO. v. HYDE PARK.

impair, or alte.
-DartmouthCollege v. Woodward, 4 Wheat.
518; Armstadt et al. v. Illinois Central Railroad, 31 Ill. 484;
Buffett et al. v. The Great Western Railroad, id. 355; Stata
Bank of Ohio v. Knoop, 16 How. 369; Jefferson Branch Bank v.
Skelly, 1 Black, 436; Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Company,
1 Wall. 116; The Binghamton Bridge, 3 id. 51; Home of the
F.iendless v. Rouse, 8 id. 430; Washington University v. Rouse,
id. 439.
3. Charters which suspend the exercise of the recognized
sovereign powers of a State have, as contracts, been repeatedly sustained. Thus she may, for a consideration, bind herself not to tax a corporation ; and a clause to that effect in
a charter is a part of the contract, though it curtails, to that
extent, her taxing power. The provision that no State shall
pass a law impairing the obligation of contracts imposes a
limitation not only upon that power, but upon all her legislation. New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; State Bank of
Ohio v. Knoop, supra ; Home of the Friendless v. Rouse, supra;
Washington University v. Rouse, supra; Atwater v. Woodbridge,
6 Conn. 223; Herrick v. Randolph, 13 Vt. 525 ; State Bank v.
People,4 Scam. (Ill.) 303; Illinois Central Railroad Co. v. .JeLean, 17 Ill. 291; The Binghamton Bridge, supra; Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Company, supra ; Conway et al. v. Taylor's
Ex'rs, 1 Black, 603; Costarv. Brush, 25 Wend. (N. Y.) 630;
M'Roberts v. Washburn, 10 Alinn. 23; lf1urray v. Charleston,
96 U. S. 432.
4. The police power of the State was regarded by the court
below as justifying the acts complained of, upon the hypothesis
that all her grants are subject to an implied reservation of that
power. There is no room here for such an implication. It
is a contradiction in terms to say that an authority to carry
ori a particular business within designated limits for a specific
period, which has been expressly granted by a binding contract,
may be taken away at her pleasure, in the exercise of that
power. Police regulations cannot be constitutionally enforced,
if they conflict with the charter, or impair any of the essential rights which it confers. Cooley, Const. Lim. 557; Washington Bridge Co. v. State, 18 Conn. 53; Pingrey v. Washburn,
1 Aik. (Vt.) 264; Miller v. New York & .Erie Railway Co., 21

FERTILIZING

Co. v.

HYDE,

PARK.

[Sup. Ct.

3arb. (N. Y.) 513; People v. Jackson &.iclehigan Railroad Co.,
Mich. 807; People v. Platt, 17 Johns. (N. Y.) 195; Bailey
r.Railroad Company, 4 Harr. (Del.) 889; Conway v. Taylor's
,Fx'rs,supra; State v. Areves, 47 Me. 189 ; State v. Jersey City,
iDutch. (N. J.) 170.
A railroad which, without legislative authority, crosses a cornnon highway, is a nuisance. Dillon, Mun. Corp., sect. 561.
3ut when a charter conferring the right to construct such a
oad over or along a public highway is accepted, the company,
f it operates its road with a due regard to the public safety
6nd convenience, cannot be subjected by the State, in the preended exercise of her police power, to penalties and forfeitures.
nuisance can be legalized; for the State may, for a limited
ime, surrender her police, as well as any other power. In this
ase she has done so for a valuable consideration, to secure a
'esult of vital importance.
It was urged below that the charter is not violated by the
rdinances, because the company may establish its works at
ome other point within the territory prescribed. To this
here are two obvious answers. 1. The erection of the works
s a compliance with the requirements of the charter, and
,ntitles the company to exercise its franchise at the selected
ite. 2. It is gratuitously assumed that there are other suitble points to which means of rapid transit exist; but supose there be, it may be safely predicted that, long before the
.xpiration of the charter, the police power, if the decision
)elow be now sustained, will be invoked, so as to render it
mpracticable for the company to carry on its business at any
)oint, notwithstanding it may have invested capital in making
)reparation therefor.
5. If the public necessities demand that the franchise of the
:ompany shall be appropriated by the State, a proceeding con[emning it in the exercise of the right of eminent domain,
vhereby an adequate compensation will be paid therefor, is
,he proper and only constitutional remedy. Cooley, Const. Lim.
56, and cases there cited; PiseataquaBridge v. New Hamp.
;hire Bridge, 7 N. H. 85; Central Bridge Corporationv. Lowell,
L Gray (Mass), 474; West River Bridge v. Dix et al., 6 How
507; Annington v. Barnett, 15 Vt. 745; Boston Water-Power
.

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING 00. V. HYDE PARK.

663

Co. v. Boston . Worcester Railroad, 23 Pick. (Mass.) 860;
Boston Lowell Railroad Co. v. Salem & Lowell Railroad Co.,
2 Gray (Mass.), 1.
6. The right to equitable relief follows from the preceding
propositions. Boston & Lowell Railroad Co. v. Salem & Lowell
Railroad Co., supra; Craton Turnpike v. Eider, 1 Johns. (N.Y.)
Ch. 611; Livingston v. Van Dusen, 9 Johns. (N. Y.) 507:
High, Injunctions, sect. 318, and cases cited.
.

.2Ir.Charles Hitohcock, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered

the opinion of the court.

This case was brought here by a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois.
The alleged ground of our jurisdiction is, that the record
presents a question of Federal jurisprudence. A brief statement of the facts will be sufficient for the purposes of this
opinion.
The plaintiff in error was incorporated by an act of the legislature, approved March 8, 1867. The act declared that the
corporation should "have continued succession and existence
for the term of fifty years." The fourth and fifth sections are
as follows: "SECT. 4. Said corporation is hereby authorized and empowered
to establish and maintain chemical and other works at the place
designated herein, for the purpose of manufacturing and converting
dead animals and other animal matter into an agricultural fertilizer,
and into other chemical products, by means of chemical, mechanical,
and other processes.
"SECT. 5. Said chemical works shall be established in Cook

County, Illinois, at any point south of the dividing line between
townships 37 and 38. Said corporation may establish and maintain
depots in the city of Chicago, in said county, for the purpose of
receiving and carrying off, from and out of the said city, any and all
offal, dead animals, and other animal matter, which they may buy
or own, or which may be delivered to them by the city authorities
and other persons."
The company organized pursuant to the charter. Its capital
stock is $250,000, all of which has been paid up and invested
in its business.

FERTILIZING

Co. v.

HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ot.

It owns ground and has its receiving depot about three miles
from Chicago. The cost of both exceeded $15,000. Thither
the offal arising from the slaughtering in the city was conveyed
daily. The chemical works of the company are in Cook
County, south of the dividing line of townships 37 and 38, as
required by the charter. When put there, the country around
was swampy and nearly uninhabited, giving little promise of
further improvement. They are within the present limits of
the village of Hyde Park. The offal procured by the company
was transported from Chicago to its works through the village
by the Pittsburg, Fort Wayne, and Chicago Railroad. There
was no other railroad by which it could be done. The court
below, in its opinion, said: "An examination of the evidence in this case clearly shows
that this factory was an unendurable nuisance to the inhabitants for many miles around its location; that the stench was
intolerable, producing nausea, discomfort, if not sickness, to the
people; that it depreciated the value of property, and was a
source of immense annoyance. It is, perhaps, as great a nuisance as could be found or even created; not affecting as many
persons as if located in or nearer to the city, but as intense in
its noisome effects as could be produced. And the transportation of this putrid animal matter through the streets of the
village, as we infer from the evidence, was offensive in a high
degree both to sight and smell."
This characterization is fully sustained by the testimony.
In March, 1869, the charter of the village was revised by the
legislature, and the largest powers of police and local government were conferred. The trustees were expressly authorized
to "define or abate nuisances which are, or may be, injurious
to the public health,"- to compel the owner of any grocerycellar, tallow-chandler shop, soap factory, tannery, or other
unwholesome place, to cleanse or abate such place, as might
be necessary, and to regulate, prohibit, or license breweries,
tanneries, packing-houses, butcher-shops, stock-yards, or establishments for steaming and rendering lard, tallow-offal, or other
substances, and all establishments and places where any nauseous, offensive, or unwholesome business was carried on. The
sixteenth section contains a proviso that the powers given

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING

Co. v.

HYDE PARK.

should not be exercised against the Northwestern Fertilizing
Company until after two years from the passage of the act.
This limitation was evidently a compromise by conflicting
parties.
On the 5th of March, 1867, a, prior act, giving substantially
the same powers to the village, was approved and became a
law. This act provided that nothing contained in it should be
construed to authorize the officers of the village to interfere
with parties engaged in transporting any animal matter from
Chicago, or from manufacturing it into a fertilizer or other
chemical product. The works here in question were in existence and in operation where they now are before the proprietors were incorporated.
After the last revision of the charter the municipality passed
an ordinance whereby, among other things, it was declared
that no person should transport any offal or other offensive or
unwholesome matter through the village, and that any person
employed upon any train or team conveying such matter should
be liable to a fine of not less than five nor more than fifty dollars for each offence; and that no person should maintain or
carry on any offensive or unwholesome business or establishment within the- limits of the village, nor within one mile of
those limits. Any person violating either of these provisions
was subjected to a penalty of not less than fifty nor more than
two hundred dollars for each offence, and to a like fine for each
day the establishment or business should be continued after the
first conviction.
After the adoption of this ordinance and the expiration of
two years from the passage of the act of 1869, notice was
given to the company, that, if it continued to transport offal
through the village as before, the ordinance would be enforced. This having no effect, thereafter, on the 8th of January, 1873, the village authorities caused the engineer and
other employds of the railway company, who were engaged in
carrying the offal through the village, to be arrested and tried
for violating the ordinance. They were convicted, and fined
each fifty dollars. This bill was thereupon filed by the company. It prays that further prosecutions may be enjoined,
and for general relief. The Supreme Court of the State, upon

FERTILIZING

Co. v.

HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ct.

appeal, dismissed the bill, and the company sued out this writ
of error.
The plaintiff in error claims that it is protected by its
charter from the enforcement against it of the ordinances
complained of, and that its charter is a contract within the
meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States. Whether this is so, is the question to be considered.
The rule of construction in this class of cases is that it shall
be most strongly against the corporation. Every reasonable
doubt is to be resolved adversely. Nothing is to be taken as conceded but what is given in unmistakable terms, or by an implication equally clear. The affirmative must be shown. Silence
is negation, and doubt is fatal to the claim. This doctrine is
vital to the public welfare. It is axiomatic in the jurisprudence
of this court. It may be well to cite a few cases by way of illustration, In Rector, &c. of Christ Church v. The County of Philadelphia (24 How. 301), in Tucker v. Ferguson (22 Wall. 527),
and in Mest Wisconsin Railroad Co. v. Board of Supervisors (93
U. S.595), property had been expressly exempted for a time
from taxation. Taxes were imposed contrary to the ierms of
the exemption in each case. The corporations objected. This
court held that the promised forbearance was only a bounty or
gratuity, and that there was no contract. In The Providence
Bank v. Billings . Pittman (4 Pet. 515), the bank had been
incorporated with the powers usually given to such institutions.
The charter was silent as to taxation. The legislature imposed
taxes. "The power to tax involves the power to destroy."
McCulloch v. J3Jaryland,4 Wheat. 316. The bank resisted, and
brought the case here for final determination. This court held
that there was no immunity, and that the bank was liable for
the taxes as an individual would have been. There is the same
silence in the charter here in question as to taxation and as to
liability for nuisances. Can exemption be claimed as to one
more than the other? Is not the case just cited conclusive as
to both?
Continued succession is given to corporations to prevent
embarrassment arising from the death of their members. One
striking difference between the artificial and a natural person

Oct;. 1878.]

FERTILIZING

Co. v.

HYDE PARK.

is, that the latter can do any thing not forbidden by law, while
the former can do only what is so permitted. Its powers and
immunities depend primarily upon the law of its creation.
Beyond that it is subject, like individuals, to the will of the
law-making power.
If the intent of the legislature touching the point under consideration be sought in the charter and its history, it will be
found to be in accordance with the view we have expressed as
matter of law. Three days before the charter of the plaintiff
in error became a law, the legislature declared that the power
of the village as to nuisances should not extend to those engaged
in the business to which the charter relates. The subject must
have been fully present to the legislative mind when the company's charter was passed. If it were intended the exemption
should be inviolable, why was it not put in the company's
charter as well as in that of the village? The silence of the
former, under the circumstances, is a pregnant fact. In one case
it was doubtless known to all concerned that the restriction
would be irrepealable, while in the other, that it could be
revoked at any time. In the revised village charter of 1869,
the exemption was limited to two years from the passage of the
act. This was equivalent to a declaration that after the lapse
of the two years the full power of the village might be applied
to the extent found necessary. Corporations in such cases are
usually prolific of promises, and the legislature was willing to
await the event for the time named.
That a nuisance of a flagrant character existed, as found by
the court below, is not controverted. We cannot doubt that the
police power of the State was applicable and adequate to give
an effectual remedy. That power belonged to the States when
the Federal Constitution was adopted. They did not surrender
it, and they all have it now. It extends to the entire property and business within their local jurisdiction. Both are
subject to it in all proper cases. It rests upon the fundamental principle that every one shall so use his own as not to
wrong and injure another. To regulate and abate nuisances
is one of its ordinary functions. The adjudged cases showing its exercise where corporate franchises were involved are
numerous.

FERTILIZING

Co. v.

HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ct.

In Coates v. The 31iayor and Aldernzen of the City of New
York (7 Cow. (N. Y.) 585). a law was enacted by the legislature of the State on the 9th of March, 1813, which gave to
the city government power to pass ordinances regulating, and,
if necessary, preventing the interment of dead bodies -within
the city; and a penalty of $250 was authorized to be imposed
for the violation of the prohibition. On the 7th of October,
1823, an ordinance was adopted, forbidding interments or the
depositing of dead bodies in vaults in the city south of a
designated lire. A penalty was prescribed for its violation.
The action was brought to recover the penalty for depositing
a dead body in a vault in Trinity churchyard. A plea was
interposed, setting forth that the locus in quo was granted by
the King of Great Britain, on the 6th of May, 1697, to a
corporation by the name of the "Rector and Inhabitants of
the City of New York in Communion with the Protestant
Episcopal Church of England," and their successors for ever,
as and for a churchyard and burying place, with the rights,
fees, &c.; that immediately after the grant the land was appropriated, and thenceforward was used as and for a cemetery
for the interment of dead bodies; that the rector and wardens
of Trinity Church were the same corporation; and that the
body in question was deposited in the vault in the churchyard
by the license of that corporation. A general demurrer was
filed, and the case elaborately argued.
The validity of the ordinance was sustained. The court held
that "the act under which it was passed was not unconstitutional, either as impairing the obligation of contracts, or taking
property for public use without compensation, but stands on
the police power to make regulations in respect to nuisances."
It was said: "Every right, from absolute ownership in property
down to a mere easement, is purchased and holden subject to
the restriction that it shall be so exercised as not to injure
others. Though at the time it be remote and inoffensive, the
purchaser is bound to know at his peril that it may become
otherwise by the residence of many people in its vicinity, and
that it must yield to by-laws and other regular remedies for the
suppression of nuisances."
In such cases, prescription, whatever the length of time, has

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING CO.

v. HYDE PARK.

no application. Every day's continuance is a new offence, and
it is no justification that the party complaining came voluntarily within its reach. Pure air and the comfortable enjoyment of property are as much rights belonging to it as the
right of possession and occupancy. If population, where there
was none before, approaches a nuisance, it is the duty of those
liable at once to put an end to it. Brady v. Weeks, 3 Barb.
(N. Y.) 157.
The legislature of Massachusetts, on the 1st of February,
1827, incorporated the "Boston Beer Company," "for the purpose of manufacturing malt liquors in all their varieties in the
city of Boston," &c. By an act of June, 1869, the manufacture of malt liquors to be sold in Massachusetts, and brewing
and keeping them for sale, were prohibited, under penalties of
fine and imprisonment and the forfeiture of the liquors to the
Commonwealth. In Beer Company v. The Commonwealth, the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts held that "the act of 1869
does not impair the obligations of the contract contained in
the charter of the claimant, so far as it relates to the sale of
malt liquors, but is binding on the claimant to the same extent
as on individuals.
"The act is in the nature of a police regulation in regard to
the sale of a certain article of property, and is applicable to the
sale of such property by individuals and corporations, even
where the charter of the corporation cannot be altered or
repealed by the legislature."
This court unanimously affirmed that judgment. In our
opinion, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, said:
"Whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the extent
and boundaries of the police power, and however difficult it
may be to render a satisfactory definition of it, there seems to
be no doubt that it does extend to the protection of the lives,
health, and property of the citizens, and to the preservation of
good order and the public morals." The judgment here was
placed also upon another ground. Beer Company v. Massaehusetts, supra, p. 25.
Perhaps the most striking application of the police power is
in the destruction of buildings to prevent the spread of a conflagration. This right existed by the common law, and the

FERTILIZING Co. v. HYDE PAEK.

[Sup. at.,

)wner was entitled to no compensation. 2 Kent, Com. 839,
ind notes 1 and a and b." In some of the States it is regulated by statute. Russel v. Te Xayor of
uewYork, 2 Den.
(N. Y.) 461; American Print Works v. Lawrence, 23 N. J. L.
590.
In the case before us it does not appear that the factory could
not be removed to some other place south of the designated
line, where it could be operated, and where offal could be
conveyed to it from the city by some other railroad, both without rightful objection. The company had the choice of any
point within the designated limits. In that respect there is
no restriction.
The charter was a sufficient license until revoked; but we
cannot regard it as a contract guaranteeing, in the locality
originally selected, exemption for fifty years from the exercise
of the police power of the State, however serious the nuisance
might become in the future, by reason of the growth of population around it. The owners had no such exemption before
they were incorporated, and we think the charter did not give
it to them.
There is a class of nuisances designated "legalized." These
are cases which rest for their sanction upon the intent of the
law under which they are created, the paramount power of the
legislature, the principle of "the greatest good of the greatest
number," and the importance of the public benefit and convenience involved in their continuance. The topic is fully discussed in Wood on Nuisances, c. 23, p. 781. See also 4 Waite,
Actions and Defences, 728. This case is not within that category. We need not, therefore, consider the subject in this
opinion.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD did not sit in this case, nor take any
part in its decision.
MR.JUSTICE MILLER concurred in the judgment; MR.JusTICE STRONG dissented.
M .. JUSTICE MILLER. I concur in the judgoment of the
court, but cannot agree to the principal argument by which it

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING

Co. v.

HYDE PARK.

is supported in the opinion. As the question turns upon the
existence of a contract and its nature, and not upon the power
of the legislature to pass laws affecting the health and comfort
of the community, a reference to them and to the power to
repeal and modify them, where no contract is in question, is
irrelevant. It is said that such contract as may be found in
the present case was made subject to the police power of the
legislature over the class of subjects to which it relates. The
extent to which this is true depends upon the specific character of the contract and not upon the general doctrine. This
court has repeatedly decided that a State may by contract
bargain away her right of taxation. I have not concurred in
that view, but it is the settled law of this court. If a State
may make a contract on that subject which it cannot abrogate
or repeal, it may, with far more reason, make a contract for
a limited time for the removal of a continuing nuisance from a
populous city.
The nuisance in the case before us was the very subjectmatter of the contract. The consideration of the contract was
that the company might and. should do certain things which
affected the health and comfort of the community; and the
State can no more impair the obligation of that contract than
it can resume the right of taxation which it has on valid consideration agreed not to exercise, because in either case the
wisdom of its legislation has become doubtful.
If the good of the entire community requires the destruction of the company's rights under this contract, let the entire community pay therefor, by condemning the same for
public use.
But I agree that contracts like this must be clearly estab[ished, and the powers of the legislature can only be limited by
fhe express terms of the contract, or by what is necessarily implied. In the case before us, the company has two correlative
eights in regard to the offal at the slaughter-houses in Chicago.
One is to have within the limit of that city depots for receivLng it, and the other is to carry it to a place in Cook County
iouth of the dividing line between townships 87 and 38. The
Sity or the State legislature is not forbidden by the contract
:o locate such depots within the city, where the health of

FERTILIZING CO. V. HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ct

the city requires; in other words, the company has not the
choice of location within the city. So, in regard to the chemical works. The company, by its contract, is entitled to have
them in Cook County south of the line mentioned; but the
precise locality within that large space is a fair subject of regulation by the police power of the State, or of any town to
which it has been delegated. If within the limits of Hyde
Park, that town may pass such laws concerning its health and
comfort as may require the company to seek another location
south of the designated line, without impairing the terms of the
6
contract.
It is said that the only railroad by which the company can
carry offal passes through Hyde Park, and that the ordinance
is fatal to the use of the road. But the State did not contract
that the company might carry by railroad, still less by that
road. In short, in my opinion, there is within the limits of
the original designation of boundary ample space where the
company may exercise the power granted by the contract, without violating the ordinances of Hyde Park, and they, as a
police regulation of health and comfort, are therefore valid,
as not infringing that contract.
For this reason alone, I think the decree should be affirmed.
MRi. JUSTICE STRONG. I cannot concur in the judgment
directed by the court in this case. That the charter granted
by the legislature, March 8, 1867, and accepted by the company, is a contract protected by the Constitution of the United
States, cannot be denied, in the face of Dartmouth College v.
Woodward (4 Wheat. 518), and the long line of decisions that
have followed in its wake and reasserted its doctrines. And
if the company holds its rights under and by force of the contract, those rights cannot be taken away or impaired, either
directly or indirectly, by any subsequent legislation. This I
believe to be incontrovertible, though the opinion just delivered
may seem to express a doubt of it.
What, then, was the contract created by the charter and its
acceptance? The first, second, and third sections constituted
certain persons named, and their successors, associates, and
assigns, a body politic and corporate, to have continued suc-

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING 00. V. HYDE PARK.

cession and existence for the teim of fifty years, and declared that its capital stock should be $50,000, but gave the
company power to increase the same to any sum not exceeding
$250,000.
The fourth and fifth sections are as follows:
-

"SECT. 4. Said corporation is hereby authorized and empowered
to establish and maintain chemical and other works at the place
designated herein, for the purpose of manufacturing and converting
dead animals and other animal matter into an agricultural fertilizer
and into other chemical products, by means of chemical, mechanical, and other processes.
"SECT. 5. Said chemical works shall be established in Cook
Count,, Illinois, at any point south of the dividing line between
townships 37 and 38. Said corporation may establish and maintain depots in the city of Chicago, in said county, for the purpose
of receiving and carrying off from and out of the said city any
and all offal, dead animals, and other animal matter which they
may buy or own, or which may be delivered to them by the city
authorities and other persons."
In order to have a clear apprehension of the rights and
privileges which this charter was intended to secure to the
company, and of the purposes which the legislature that
granted it had in view, it is both admissible and important
to take notice of the circumstances that existed at the time
of its grant, so far as they are shown by the record. Chicago
-was then a populous city, built upon a level plain, where drainage and sewerage are exceedingly difficult, if not impossible.
The slaughtering of animals and packing the flesh for markets
in other places were conducted there upon a stupendous scale.
The business had been growing in magnitude for years, and bid
fair to be what it has become, -larger than that of any city
in the United States, if not in the world. Of necessity, the
amount of blood and offal produced was correspondingly large.
It could not be disposed of or allowed to accumulate there
without manifestly endangering the health and injuriously
affecting the comfort of the hundreds of thousands of inhabitants of the city. It was, therefore, a matter of public
importance to provide for its removal elsewhere. Such would
have been the case had the business of slaughtering extended
43
VOL. Vi1.

FERTILIZING CO. V. HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ct.

no further than to supply the domestic market. At that time
there was in the county of Cook, about thirteen miles south
of the city, a marshy region in the midst of swamps, and much
of it at all seasons covered with shallow ponds and bayous. It
was very thinly inhabited, and it held out few, if any, invitations for additional settlement. Obviously it was a thing of
public interest to relieve the city from accumulations of the
blood and offal, and have them transported to a place where
they would cause no injury, or so much less than they would
cause if remaining in the midst of a dense population. It
cannot be supposed that the legislature was unmindful of
these considerations.
The charter itself furnishes evidence
that its motive and purpose were to furnish relief to the city,
doing the least possible harm to residents in other localities.
It offered to the grantees certain privileges as the consideration for large expenditures by them for removing from the
city the matter so injurious to its inhabitants. It expressly
authorized the establishment and maintenance by the corporation of chemical and other works for the purpose of manufacturing and converting dead animals and other animal matter
into an agricultural fertilizer and into other chemical products.
It designated the place where the works might be located as
"in Cook County, at any point south of the dividing line between townships 37 and 38." It also granted to the corporation the right to establish and maintain depots in the city
"for the purpose of receiving and carrying off from and out
of the city any and all offal, dead animals, and other animal
matter which they (the company) may buy or own, or which
may be delivered to them by the city authorities or other
persons."
When accepted, it was, therefore, a contract by -which the
State authorized the company to establish works and carry
on a business which, without the authority, would be a nuisance to a few persons, in order to relieve a very large community from a greater nuisance. It was, therefore, a grant of a
right to maintain a local nuisance.
In the exercise of the rights thus granted, the company
established their works at a place in Cook County, south of
the dividing line between townships 37 and 38, in what

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING 00. V. HYDE PARK.

is now the village of Hyde Park, but quite remote from the
thickly inhabited part of the village. The point at which they
are located is within the limits designated by the legislature.
The selection of the place within those limits was confided
by the charter to the company, and when the selection was
made and the works were erected, the charter conferred the
right to maintain them and carry on the business where they
were located. I concede that the company could not exercise their discretion wantonly or in negligent disregard of the
rights of others. But there is nothing in the case tending
to show such disregard or wantonness. There is nothing to
show, and it is not claimed, that the works are not at a place
where they were authorized to be erected. On the contrary,
there is every thing to show that the neighborhood where they
were located was swampy and nearly uninhabited, giving, as
I have said, little promise of further improvement.
The company also, at large expense, erected receiving depots,
as authorized by the charter, for the purpose of receiving and
carrying from the city matter consisting of dead animals and
offal, and engaged in having it transported upon the only railroad upon which it could be transported to the chemical works
located within the limits of the municipal division known as
Hyde Park Village. That by the charter they were authorized
to transport it thither, I regard as beyond any reasonable doubt.
I admit to the fullest extent the rule that all charters of private corporations are to be construed most strongly against
the corporations. Nothing is granted that is not expressly or
clearly implied. But this rule is quite consistent with another,equally settled, that charters are to receive a reasonable interpretation in view of the purposes for which they were made.
An express grant of power must include whatever is indispensably necessary to its enjoyment. No man can reasonably
deny that a grant of power to establish works at a certain
place to convert animal matter into an agricultural fertilizer,
coupled with power to establish depots for receiving and carrying it from the city, does authorize its transportation to the
converting works. It is not denied in the present case. One of
the rights, then, which the company obtained by their charter
was to carry the offal, dead animals, and other animal matter

FERTILIZING CO. V. HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ct.

ito and through the village of Hyde Park to the works
athorized for its- conversion.
To recapitulate: The company obtained by their contract
,ith the State, among others, three rights: One, a right to
,tablish and maintain at a place in Cook County, south of
ae dividing line between townships 37 and 38, works for conerting animal matter. The works have been established there
b a cost of more than $200,000 ; second, they obtained the
Ight to establish receiving depots for receiving and carrying
ach matter from Chicago; and, third, they obtained the right
) carry such matter from their receiving depots to their conertig works in Hyde Park. I do not understand any of these
ropositions to be questioned, either by the defendants in error
r by the majority of this court.
The only serious question, therefore, is whether by any law
f the State this contract has been impaired, and the rights
ssured by it have been taken away. On the 26th of March,
869, nearly two years after the charter had been granted and
ccepted, the legislature of the State passed an act, entitled
An Act to revise the charter of the town of Hyde Park, in
'ook County," giving therein full sanitary and police powers
D the municipal authorities, but containing the following proiso: "The sanitary powers conferred by this act shall not be
xercised by said board of trustees as against the Northwestern
Fertilizing Company or the Union Rendering Company, located
.t or near the Calumet River, in said town, until the full expiation of two years after the passage of this act." Under this
ct the board of trustees, on the 14th of February, 1870, adopted
,n ordinance declaring all establishments for rendering offal,
ic., nuisances, and imposing penalties upon any person who
hall own, keep, or use them. The ordinance also prohibited
he deposit of any dead animals or other filthy, nauseous, or
iffensive substance on any lot, street, alley, or other place in
he town, and imposed penalties for any violation of the ordiiance. On the 10th of April, 1872, the village of Hyde Park
vas incorporated, and succeeded to the rights and duties of the
:own of the same name; and on the twenty-ninth day of Novem)er, of that year, another ordinance of the village was made,
reiterating in substance the provisions of the ordinance of Feb.

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING

C0.

V. HYDE PARK.

14, 1870. It went further, and its provisions make it impossible for the company to enjoy the rights accorded to them by
their charter. It declared to be nuisances all places within the
village kept, occupied, or used for the purpose of rendering offal
or animal substances, when the same is or may be kept in such
a manner as to occasion any offensive smell, and all places
where any nauseous, unwholesome, or offensive business may
be carried on, and it imposes penalties upon offenders. It prohibited the establishment, maintenance, or carrying on of any
offensive or unwholesome business or establishment within the
limits of the village, or within one mile of the limits thereof,
and it ordained that "no person shall transfer, carry, haul, or
convey any offal, dead animals, or other offensive matter or
material into or through the village of Hyde Park." All
these provisions are sanctioned by prescribed penalties, and the
village authorities are enforcing them against the company.
If they are enforced, it cannot carry on the business which
its charter authorized. The offal from Chicago or elsewhere
cannot be brought to the works; and if it could, the company could not render it into a fertilizer. The ordinance is
in direct conflict with the legislative grant, a grant which was
for a consideration returned, and which, therefore, has the force
of a contract. It is, in my judgment, a palpable violation of the
constitutional provision that no State shall pass a law impairing
the obligation of a contract.
It has been suggested that the charter did not precisely designate the place where the rendering works might be established,
and to which the city offal might be carried; and hence it
is argued that, notwithstanding the contract, it is within the
power of the legislature to order the removal of the works to
another locality, and that this may be done mediately by a
municipal corporation empowered by the State. The inference I emphatically deny. It is true the charter empowered
the company to select a location within certain geographical
limits, and did not itself define the exact point; but when
under this power a location was made by the company, and
hundreds of thousands of dollars were expended upon it, it was
beyond the power of the other contracting party to change it.
The location was lawful when made, and, if lawful then, it can-

FERTILIZING CO. V. HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ct.

,t be made unlawful afterwards. If it could be, it would be
the power of the legislature to change it a second, a third,
iftieth time, and fix it at last at a place where none of the
,hts of the company could be enjoyed. No one has ever
ubted that when a railroad company has been authorized, as
often the case, to construct a railroad beginning at some
int within a township or a county, and has constructed its
ad from some point in that township or county, its right to
aintain it from that terminus is indefeasible. That which
is left uncertain has become certain. So, if a warrant be
anted for a tract of land in a specified district without deribing it, when the warrantee has selected a tract, the contract
closed, and his right to that tract is absolute. It must be,
erefore, that the location of the company's works at the places
iere they were located, recognized as a proper location in the
t of the legislature of 1869, is one which cannot be changed
.thout the consent of both parties to the contract, or without
mpensation made.
But it is said the ordinance complained of is only an exercise
the police power of the State, and that the charter must
*assumed to have been granted and accepted subject to that
,lice power. I admit that the police power of a State extends
nerally to the prevention and removal of things injurious to
e comfort of the public. I admit also that the works of the
mpany may have been and probably were offensive, and were
nuisance, unless their character was changed by the law.
,, also, carrying offal, or animal matter, into or through the
lage may have been and probably was more or less offensive.
it the question now is, were the works or the transportation
ings illegal? In view of the contract contained in the charr, was it a legitimate exercise of the State's police power to
clare them illegal, abate them, and inflict penalties for doing
hat the State had declared that the company might do? I
a confident it was not. Had the charter been a mere license,
stead of a contract, the case would be different. But the
gislature may legalize acts which, without such legislation,
c)uld be obnoxious to criminal law. It may legalize that
hich, without such action, would be a nuisance. It may do
is either by law or by contract. It may limit the extent to

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING CO.

v.

HYDE PARK.

which its police power shall be exerted. And it often does.
The charter of a railroad company is a familiar illustration.
Crossing highways and running locomotives, were they not
authorized by law, would be nuisances. Who will contend
that, when a charter has been granted for building a railway
and running locomotives thereon, the company or its agents can
be punished criminally for maintaining a nuisance? Why not?
Because there is no nuisance in the eye of the law, and the
State has contracted away a portion of its police power. So,
also, an illustration may be found in the case of gas companies.
If a legislature charter a gas company, and locate its works at
a designated place, authorizing the manufacture of gas there, it
would be marvellous indeed if the agents of the company could
be indicted for a nuisance, or if the legislature could without
compensation deny the exercise of the powers granted, because
manufacturing gas is offensive. The police power of a State is
no more sacred than its taxing power. We have held again
and again that a State may by contract with one of its corporations bind itself not to tax the property of that corporation.
If so, why may it not bind itself not to exercise its police power
over certain employments. It would be a monstrous stretch of
credulity to conclude that the legislature of Illinois did not
intend such a relinquishment of police power when it granted
the charter to the plaintiff in error. Its members must be
assumed to have had common knowledge. They knew the
offensiveness of animal offal. The plain object of the charter
was to relieve the citizens of Chicago from it. The legislature
knew that the transportation of the offal to a point south of
the designated line, and its deposit there, would inevitably be
offensive to the much less numerous inhabitants of the vicinity.
With this knowledge they authorized what the plaintiff in error
has been doing. They invited the investment of $250,000 to
enable it to be done, and they entered into a contract that the
company should have a right to do it for fifty years. To say
now, as the judgment in this case does, there was a tacit reservation, that under the pretence of exercising the police power
of the State the rights of the company may all be taken away,
and their investments destroyed without compensation, is, in
my opinion, not only unjust, but unwarranted by any judicial

FERTILIZING CO. v. HYDE PARK.

[Sup. Ct.

decision heretofore made. While saying this, I freely admit
that the police power of the State may remain to regulate the
conduct of the company's business, provided the regulation does
not extend to the destruction of the chartered rights. It may
prescribe that the offal shall be transported to the appellants'
works in closed cars or wagons. It may impose reasonable
regulations upon the disposition of the offal when received at
the rondering works, but under the cover of regulation it cannot
destroy.
Nothing, I admit, is more indefinite than the extent or limits
of -what is called police power. I will not undertake to define
them. Certainly it has limits. I refer to what Judge Cooley
has said in reference to the exercise of the power over private corporations. Cooley, Const. Lim. 577. He says, "The
exercise of the police power in these cases must be this: the
regulations must have reference to the comfort, safety, or welfare of society; they must not be in conflict with any of the
provisions of the charter, and they must not, under the pretence
of regulations, take from the corporation any of the essential
rights and privileges which the charter confers. In short, they
must be police regulations in fact, and not amendments of the
charter in curtailment of the corporate franchise." This I understand to be entirely correct. In support of it he refers to
numerous decisions, which I will not cite, but to which I also
refer. There are many others fully sustaining the text as I
have quoted it.
There is no authority to the contrary. The cases relied
upon to uphold the exercise of the power which the defendants in error assert are all clearly distinguishable. They are
not cases where the police power was exerted for the destruction of a chartered right distinctly granted by a contract.
The only decision referred to which has been made by this
court is Beer Company v. Massachusetts, supra, p. 25. In my
judgment, it furnishes no support for the present ruling. The
case was this: In 1828, the legislature granted a charter to
the Boston Beer Company, by which they were made a corporation, " for the purpose of manufacturing malt liquors in all
their varieties," and made the corporation subject to all the
duties and requirements of an act passed on the 3d of March,

Oct. 1878.]

FERTILIZING CO. V. HYDE PARK.

1809, entitled "An Act defining the general powers and duties
of manufacturing companies," and the several acts in addition
thereto. The general manufacturing act of 1809 contained a
provision that the legislature might from time to time, upon
due notice to any corporation, make further provisions and reg
ulations for the management of the business of the corporation
and for the government thereof, or wholly to repeal any act or
part thereof establishing any corporation, as should be deemed
expedient. In 1829, the act of 1809 was repealed, with the
following qualification, however: "But this repeal shall not
affect the existing rights of any person or the existing or future
liabilities of any corporation, or any members of any corporation now established, until such corporation shall have adopted
this act and complied with the provisions herein contained."
The legislature of the State, in 1869, passed an act restricting
the sale within the Commonwealth of any malt liquors, and
prohibiting it except in certain specified cases.
The Supreme Judicial Court of the State adjudged: first,
that the act of 1869 did not impair the obligation of the contract contained in the charter of the beer company, so far as
it related to the sale of malt liquors, but was binding upon
the company to the same extent as on individuals. The sale
was not expressly authorized, nor authorized by necessary implication. And, secondly, the court held that the act was in
the nature of a police regulation in regard to the sale of a
certain article of property, and is applicable to the sale of such
property by individuals and corporations, even when the charter of the corporation cannot be altered or repealed by the
legislature.
We affirmed the decision of the State court. But there
was nothing in the charter that authorized, either expressly or
by necessary intendment, the company to sell their product
within the Commonwealth. It was not a contract to authorize what was a nuisance when it was granted, 'r what might
thereafter become one. It was not a contract respecting any
thing that was illegal when the contract was made. The contract under consideration in the present case 'was. It was
made with reference to the exercise of the State's police power,
and in restraint of it. It is obvious, therefore, the beer com-

INSURANCE

O. v. LEWIS.

[Sup. Ct.

pany's case has no applicability to the one we have now in
hand.
I have said enough to indicate the reasons for my dissent.
To me they appear very grave. In my judgment, the decision
of the court denies the power of a State legislature to legalize,
during a limited period, that which without its action would
be a nuisance. It enables a subsequent legislature to take
away, without compensation, rights which a former one has
accorded, in the most positive terms, and for which a valuable
consideration has been paid. And, in its application to the
present case, it renders it impossible to remove from Chicago
the vast bodies of animal offal there accumulated; for if the
ordinance of Hyde Park can stand, every other municipality
around the city can enforce similar ordinances.

INSURANCE CoirPAzY v. LEWIS.
The statute of mssouri of 1868 (1 Wagner's Stat., ed. 1872, p. 122, sect. 8) does
not authorize a suit by a public administrator in that State against a foreign
insurance company doing business there, to enforce the payment of a policy
of insurance, not made or to be executed in that State, upon the life of a citizen of Wisconsin, who neither resided, died, nor left any estate in Missouri.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr. Everett TV. Pattisonfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. D. S. JDryden, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAff delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced in the Circuit Court of St. Louis
County, Missouri, by Lewis, the defendant in error, as public
administrator of that county, upon a policy of insurance dated
July 30, 1873, whereby the Union Mutual Life Insurance
Company of Maine agreed to insure the life of William S.
Berton, "of Milwaukee, County of Milwaukee, State of Wisconsin," in the sum of $5,000, payable three months after due

