Oct. 1878.]

WoRK v. LEATHERS.

WORK v. LEATHERS.
1. 'Where the owner of a vessel charters her, there arises, unless the contrary
be shown, an implied contract on his part that she is seaworthy and suitable for the service in which she is to be employed. He is, therefore,
bound, unless prevented by the perils of the sea or unavoidable accident,
to keep her in proper repair, and is not excused for any defects known or
unknown.
2. A defect in the vessel, which is developed without any apparent cause, is presumed to have existed when the service began.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
11Mr. Thomas ifunton, for the appellant, cited Spofford et al. -Y.
-Dodge et al., 14 Mass. 60; Havelocc v. Geddes, 6 Rob. Adm. 10.
iIr. CTiarles B. Singleton, contra, cited Kimball v. Tucker et al.,
10 Mass. 192; 3 Kent, Com. 205; Abbott, Shipp. 340; 1 Pars.
Shipp. and Adm. 285, note (a); Devillers v. Schooner John Bell
et al., 6 La. Ann. 544; Bathbone v. Neal, 4 id. 563 ; Talcot v.
Commercial Insurance Co., 2 Johns. (N. Y.) 124; 2 Phillips,
Ins., sect. 2079; Sneethen v. .emphis Insurance Co., 3 La.
Ann. 474.
APPEAL

MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a case in admiralty. On the 31st of March, 1869,
Work, the libellant and appellant, chartered to Leathers the
steamer "Vicksburg" for two months from that date. Leathers was to pay $1,750 per month. It is alleged by Work,
but denied, that Leathers also stipulated to return the boat
in as good condition as he received her, ordinary wear and tear
excepted. Leathers took possession of the boat, and paid the
sum agreed upon for the first month. He also paid $560 on
account of the second month. During that month a shaft
broke, and the cylinder-head of one of her engines was blown
out. Leathers thereupon returned the boat, and refused to
repair her. The libellant claims $1,850 for the repairs which
he alleges Leathers was bound to make; $1,190, the balance
of the stipulated compensation for the second month; and
$5,000 for damages arising otherwise from the alleged breaches

WORK V. LEATHERs.

[Sup. Ct.

of the contract by the respondent. Leathers insists that the
boat was utterly unseaworthy when he received her, that her
timbers were rotten, that the shaft was too small and cracked,
though the crack was not apparent; that the boilers were
unsafe, that the shaft broke and the cylinder blew out when
the boat was in smooth, deep water, carrying only one hundred
and ten pounds of steam; that the sum of $560 paid for the
second month was the amount due according to the time that
had elapsed when the boat became disabled and he surrendered
her to the owner.
Where the owner of a vessel charters her, or offers her for
freight, he is bound to see that she is seaworthy and suitable
for the service in which she is to be employed. If there be
defects known, or not known, he is not excused. He is obliged
to keep her in proper repair, unless prevented by perils of the
sea or unavoidable accident. Such is the implied contract
where the contrary does not appear. Putnam v. Wood, 3 Mass.
481; 3 Kent, Com. 205. The owner is liable for the breach
of his contract, but the stipulation of seaworthiness is not so
far a condition precedent that the hirer is not liable in such
case for any of the charter-money. If he uses her, he must pay
for the use to the extent to which it goes. 1 Pars. Adm. 265;
3 Kent, Com. supra; Abbott, Shipp. (5th Am. ed.) 340. If a
defect without any apparent cause be developed, it is to be
presumed it existed when the service began. Talcot v. Commercial Insurance Co., 2 Johns. (N. Y.) 124.
The facts set up in the answer, by way of defence, are fully
established by the proofs. The current is all one way. There
is no conflict. It could do no good in any wise to examine
the evidence in detail. It is sufficient to announce our conclusion.
The decree of the court below dismissing the libel is
Affirmed.

