ELDRIDGE V. HILL.

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD, with whom concurred MR.
SWAYNE and MR. JUSTICE STROxG, dissenting.

[Sup. Ct.
JUSTICE

I dissent from the opinion in this case, upon the ground that
it is in conflict with prior decisions of this court upon the same
subect.

ELDRIDGE v. HILL.
Forty-four record-books, some deeds, mortgages, and other papers of a county
having been stolen, the county officers deposited $3,600 in the hands of A.,
upon condition that it should, upon the return of the stolen property, be paid
to the person causing the return. It was also stipulated that the failure to
"deliver some small paper or papers" should not invalidate the agreement.
Within the time limited, A. received a paper, signed by the deputy-sheriff of
the county, acknowledging the receipt of the record-books, "also papers and
small index-books." He thereupon paid the money to the person presenting
the receipt. The county then brought suit against A. to recover the money,
alleging that some of the books were, upon their return, in such a damaged
condition as to be rendered comparatively worthless, and that he had, therefore, not performed his contract. Held, that A., being a simple bailee of the
money deposited in his hands, without comrensation, was not, in the absence
of bad faith on his part, responsible for the condition of the property at the
time of its return.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. M1att. H. Carpenterfor the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. B. F Heightley, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of exceptions in this case shows that forty-four
record-books, and some deeds, mortgages, and other papers,
were, on the night of the 28th of June, 1872, stolen from
the office of the register of deeds of the county of St. Joseph,
Mich.
After an unavailing effort for over two months to recover
them, the officers of the county seem to have come to an understanding with some detectives, by which they were to deposit
in Chicago, with the law firm of Eldridge & Tourtelotte, now
plaintiffs in error, the sum of $3,500, to be paid to the person

ELDRIDGE v. HILL.

Oct. 1877.]

causing said books and papers to be delivered to the county, if
it was done before the twelfth day of September.
The money was so deposited on the fifth day of September,
with Eldridge & Tourtelotte, and a written instrument signed
by them and by the proper officers of the county, which, after
reciting the circumstances that led to it, ends with the following agreement: "It is hereby agreed that the said supervisors and the treasure
shall deposit in the hands of Messrs. Eldridge & Tourtelotte the
said sum of money (which sum is hereby deposited with said Eldridge & Tourtelotte), and which said sum shall be held by them
until the said books and papers shall be returned to said county;
and when so delivered to said county, the said sum of money so
deposited in said Eldridge & Tourtelotte's hands shall be paid and
delivered to said parties so causing said books and papers to be so
returned to said county; and in case the said books and papers, and
all of them, are not delivered to said county on or before the twelfth
day of September, A.D. 1872, then the said sum of money so received by said Eldridge & Tourtelotte shall be returned to and
given back to said treasurer of said county.
"CHIcAGo, Sept. 5, A.D. 1872.

(Signed)

"WM.
M. WATKMTS,
"Comm. of Board of Supervisors for the County of St. Joseph.

"JAf3s HILL, County Treasurer.

"E. F. PniRE, County Sheriff.
"ELDIRIDGE & TOURTELOTTE.
"It is understood that any failure to deliver some small paper or
papers shall not invalidate the above agreement.
" WU. M.

WATm=nS."

It is further shown that, on the appearance of Tourtelotte
at his office at the usual hour on the morning of September 7,
a man named Wilson, known to him as a detective, was there
awaiting him, and presented him the following paper: "I have received from somebody forty-four books for St. Joseph
County, also papers and small index-books.
W. W. HATCH."
Hatch was the deputy-sheriff of the county, and on the production of this paper Tourtelotte paid the money to Wilson.
Hill, on behalf of the county, brought this action against

ELDRIDGE V. HILL.

[Sup. Ut.

Eldridge & Tourtelotte, for the money so paid, and recovered
judgment.
One of the errors assigned is, that the court admitted the
instrument signed by the parties, dated September 5, to be
read in evidence, when the copy set out in the declaration is
dated September 6. It is unnecessary to consider this ques
tion, as we are of opinion that the judgment must be reversed,
and a new trial awarded on another and more important
ground.
We are of opinion that there was no evidence of the liability
of the defendants on which a verdict could have been rendered
against them; and, though no instruction to that effect was
prayed, the court did charge the jury that the evidence raised
the question which it was proper for them, and not for the
court, to decide, whether, on the delivery of the books and
papers to the county officers, they were in such a condition as
justified the defendants in paying the money to the party claim
ing it. To this defendants excepted.
On this point we think that the court did not give sufficient
weight to the fact that defendants were simple bailees and
agents acting for the county without compensation. Although
in the course of this charge the court calls them bailees and
agents, it lays down a rule which would govern the case if the
defendants had made a contract for a valuable consideration to
restore the books and papers in gbod order to the county inside
of seven days, or to return the money.
The bill of exceptions states as facts proved that "all of the
property except one deed and two powers of attorney, and the
whole of the books which had been stolen from the office of
the register of deeds, viz. forty-four books of records, were returned to the custody of the register." That a leaf was missing
from one book, and three from another. That some of the
writing had been rendered illegible, and parts of the pages
gone. This is the substance of the testimony, on which the
judge put it to the jury as a question for them to decide,
whether Eldridge & Tourtelotte should refund to the county
the money which, as its gratuitous agents, they had paid to
recover the books.
We think there was no such question; that in the absence of

Oct. 1877.]

ELDRIDGE

v. HILL.

any pretence of bad faith thele was no right of recovery. It is
clear that the defendants were not required by the circumstances of the case to see and examine the books, or to await
their delivery to the register, and his examination and report on
their condition. Any such idea is inconsistent with the whole
arrangement; and the county officers who consented to such an
arrangement should be the last to insist on a condition which
would enable them to get the books, catch the thief, and retain
the reward.
If Eldridge & Tourtelotte acted in good faith, as it is cleai
they did, and without reward did what they had every reason
to believe was in accord with the wishes of those who deposited
the money, they are discharged. The thing to be done was
the recovery of forty-four large record-books of one of the
oldest counties of the State. It was an important thing to
the owners of property in the county that it should be done.
When this had been done and the books recovered, with all
the loose papers but two or three, it is idle to say that the
absence of two or three pages, and the fading of the ink of as
many more, justified the county in holding the books and suing
its own agent for the money which, under its instruction, he
had paid to get them back. It seems to us that if those books
had been presented to Tourtelotte just as they were to the
deputy-sheriff, and he had refused to pay the $3,500, and the
books had thereby been for ever lost, the county would have
had a much stronger cause of action than it has proved in this
case.
Because there was no evidence on which plaintiff had a
right to recover, and because the court, against the exception
of defendants, told the jury there was evidence on that point
for them to consider, the judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded, with instructions to set aside the verdict and
grant a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

