GRANT v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. ot.

GRANT v. NATIONAL BANK.
In order to invalidate, as a fraudulent preference within the meaning of the
Bankrupt Act, a security taken for a debt, the creditor must have had such a
knowledge of facts as to induce a reasonable belief of his debtor's insolvency.
It is not sufficient that he had some cause to suspect such insolvency.

APP-PA from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This case arises upon a bill in equity, filed by Charles E.
Grant, assignee in bankruptcy of John S. Miller, to set aside
a mortgage, or deed of trust, executed by him about two months
prior tb his bankruptcy. Miller was indebted to the First National Bank of Monmouth, Illinois, in about 86,200, of which
$4,000 consisted of a note which had been twice renewed, and
the balance was the amount which he had overdrawn his account in the bank. Wanting some cash for immediate purposes,
the bank advanced him $300 more, on his giving them the deed
of trust in question, which was made for $6,500, and was given
to secure the indebtedness referred to. The question below
was, whether, at the time of taking this security, the officers
of the bank had reasonable cause to believe that Miller was
insolvent. The Circuit Court came to the conclusion that they
had not, and dismissed the bill. From that decree the assignee
appealed.
H1Tr. Thomas G. Frostand Mr. H. C. liller for the appellant.
Where a creditor, who accepts a conveyance to secure a precedent debt, has reason to believe that his debtor is at the time
unable to pay his debts as they become due, the conveyance is
void as a fraudulent preference within the meaning of the
Bankrupt Act. Toof et al. v. M1'artin, Assignee, ie., 13 Wall. 40;
Buchanan v. Smith, 16 id. 308; Wilson v. City Bank, 17 id.
487; -Dutcher v. Wright, 94 U. S. 553; Forbes v. Howe, 102
Mass. 437.
M11r. C. B. Lawrence, contra.
If Miller was in fact insolvent when he executed the deed
of trust, the officers of the bank had no knowledge of the fact,
nor any reasonable cause for believing it.
The deed of trust was given to secure $6,500, of which only

Oct. 1877.]

GRANT V. NATIONAL BANK.

the sum of $4,000 was a precedent debt, the remaining $2,500
being for money advanced under the provision of the deed.
Even if it could be held that the deed was constructively fraudulent as to the .94,000, it must be sustained as to the $2,500.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Some confusion exists in the cases as to the meaning of the
phrase, "having reasonable cause to believe such a person is
insolvent." Dicta are not wanting which assume that it has
the same meaning as if it had read, "having reasonable cause
to suspect such a person is insolvent." But the two phrases
are distinct in meaning and effect. It is not enough that a
creditor has some cause to suspect the insolvency of his debtor;
but he must have such a knowledge of facts as to induce a reasonable belief of his debtor's insolvency, in order to invalidate
a security taken for his debt. To make mere suspicion a ground
of nullity in such a case would render the business transactions
of the community altogether too insecure. It was never the
intention of the framers of the act to establish any such rule.
A man may have many grounds of suspicion that his debtor
is in failing circumstances, and yet have no cause for a wellgrounded belief of the fact. He may be unwilling to trust
him further; he may feel anxious about his claim, and have
a strong desire to secure it, - and yet such belief as the act
requires may be wanting. Obtaining additional security, or
receiving payment of a debt, under such circumstances is not
prohibited by the law. Receiving payment is put in the same
category, in the section referred to, as receiving security. Hundreds of men constantly continue to make payments up to the
very eve of their failure, which it would be very unjust and
disastrous to set aside. And yet this could be done in a large
proportion of cases if mere grounds of suspicion of their solvency were sufficient for the purpose.
The debtor is often buoyed up by the hope of being able to
get through with his difficulties long after his case is in fact
desperate; and his creditors, if they know any thing of his
embarrassments, either participate in the same feeling, or at
least are willing to think that there is a possibility of his sucVOL. VIZ.

6

(GRANT v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct

ceeding. To overhaul and set aside all his transactions with
his creditors, made under such circumstances, because there
may exist some grounds of suspicion of his inability to carry
himself through, would make the bankrupt law an engine of
oppression and injustice. It would, in fact, have the effect of
producing bankruptcy in many cases where it might otherwise
be avoided.
Hence the act, very wisely, as we think, instead of making a
payment or a security void for a mere suspicion of the debtor's
insolvency, requires, for that purpose, that his creditor should
have some reasonable cause to believe him insolvent. He must
have a knowledge of some fact or facts calculated to produce
such a belief in the mind of an ordinarily intelligent man.
It is on this distinction that the present case turns. It
cannot be denied that the officers of the bank had become distrustful of Miller's ability to bring his affairs to a successful
termination; and yet it is equally apparent, independent of
their sworn statements on the subject, that they supposed there
was a possibility of his doing so. After obtaining the security
in question, they still allowed him to check upon them for
considerable amounts in advance of his deposits. They were
alarmed; but they were not without hope. They felt it necessary to exact security for what he owed them; but they still
granted him temporary accommodations. Had they actually
supposed him to be insolvent, would they have done this?
The circumstances calculated to excite their suspicions are
very ably and ingeniously summed up in the brief of the appellant's counsel; but we see nothing adduced therein which is
sufficient to establish any thing more than cause for suspicion.
That Miller borrowed money; that he had to renew his note;
that he overdrew his account; that he was addicted to some
incorrect habits; that he was somewhat reckless in his manner
of doing business; that he seemed to be pressed for money, were all facts well enough calculated to make the officers of the
bank cautious and distrustful; but it is not shown that any
facts had come to their knowledge which were sufficient to lay
any other ground than that of mere suspicion. Miller had for
years been largely engaged in purchasing, fattening, and selling
cattle. He had always borrowed money largely to enable him

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

to make his purchases; for this purpose he had long been in
the habit of temporarily overdrawing his account: the note
which he renewed was not a regular business note, given in
ordinary course, but was made to effect a loan from the bank
apparently of a more permanent character than an ordinary discount; and his manner of doing business was the same as it had
always been. That he was actually insolvent when the trustdeed was executed, there is little doubt; but he was largely
indebted in Galesburg, in a different county from that in which
Monmouth is situated; and there is no evidence that the officers
of the bank had any knowledge of this indebtedness.
Without going into the evidence in detail, it seems to us that
it only establishes the fact that the officers of the bank had
reason to be suspicious of the bankrupt's insolvency, when
their security was obtained; but that it falls short of establishing that they had reasonable cause to believe that he was
insolvent.
-Decreeaffirmed.

CoUIxTY OF BATES v. WINTERS.
On April 5,1870, the county court of Bates County, Missouri, having received the
requisite petition, ordered that an election be held May 3 in Mount Pleasant
township, for the purpose of determining whether a subscription of $90,000
should be made on behalf of the township to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company, to be paid for in the bonds of
the county, upon certain conditions and qualifications set forth in the order.
The election resulted in favor of the subscription; whereupon the court, June
14, 1870, made an order that said sum "be, and is hereby, subscribed . . .
subject to and in pursuance of all the terms, restrictions, and limitations" of
the order of April 5,and that the agent of the court be authorized and directed
to make said subscription, on behalf of the township, on the stock-books of
said company, and, in making it, to have copied in full the order of the court
as the conditions on which it was made, and that he report his acts to the
court. The agent, Dec. 19, 1870, reported that the company had no stockbooks, for which, and other reasons, he did not make the subscription, concluding his report with the words, "the bonds of said township are, therefore,
not subscribed," which report was formally adopted by the court. Jan. 18,
1871, the county court made another order, reciting that the subscription had
been made to said Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company; that
a consolidation had been made between that and another company, resulting in the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, and directing that

