Oct. 1877.]

GLUE CO. v. UPTON.

held them only as security for a debt which he owed, less in
amount than the bonds. The amount of the debt nowhere appears in the pleadings, though it is admitted that the bonds
were held as security only.
Conceding all that is claimed in the argument opposing this
motion, to wit, that the judgment in this action will be conclusive in another by the present plaintiffs upon the same bonds
as to the liability of the defendants upon the bonds to the
extent of the debt of Jones, for which they are held, still our
jurisdiction cannot be maintained, unless it also appears that
this debt exceeds $5,000. Prima facie, the judgment against
a defendant in an action for money is the measure of our jurisdiction in his behalf. This prima facie case continues until
the contrary is shown; and, if jurisdiction is invoked because
of the collateral effect a judgment may have in another action,
it must appear that the judgment conclusively settles the rights
of the parties in a matter actually in dispute, the sum or value
of which exceeds the required amount. No issue was raised
here as to bow much was actually due the plaintiffs from Jones,
and the testimony is by no means clear upon that subject.
Certainly there is nothing in the record which concludes the
parties upon that question; and, as it rests upon the plaintiff
in error to establish our jurisdiction affirmatively before we can
proceed, the writ is
-Dismissed.

GLuE. CoMPAN-Y v. UPTON.
1 The mere change in form of a soluble article of commerce, by reducing it to
small particles so that its solution is accelerated and it is rendered more
ready for immediate use, convenient for handling, and, by its improved
appearance, more merchantable, does not make it a new article, within the
sense of the patent law.
2. To render an article new within that law, it must be more or less efficacious, or
possess new properties by a combination with other ingredients.
3. Reissued letters-patent No. 4072, granted July 12, 1870, to Thomas P. Milligan
and Thomas Higgins, assignees of Emerson Goddard, for an improvement in the manufacture of glue, - the alleged improvement consisting "of
glue comminuted to small particles of practically uniform size, as distinguished from the glue in angular flakes hitherto known," -are void foy
want of novelty.

GLUE Co. v. UPTON.

[Sup., O ,

APFEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Massachusetts.
This is a suit in equity by the Milligan and Higgins Glue
Company, against George Upton, for the alleged infringement
of reissued letters-patent No. 4072, for an improvement in the
manufacture of glue, granted July 12, 1870, to Thomas P.
Milligan and Thomas Higgins, assignees of Emerson Goddard,
upon the surrender and cancellation of original letters-patent
No. 44,528, issued to the latter Oct. 4, 1864. The complainant is the assignee of Milligan and Higgins. The bill prays
for an injunction, and for an account of the defendant's
gains and profits arising from the manufacture and sale of the.
patented article. Upon hearing, the court below dismissed the
bill, whereupon the complainant appealed here. The facts
relating to the alleged invention are stated in the opinion of
the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Edmund Wetmore for the
appellant.
The court declined to hear 111r. George L. Boberts and 31r.
C'hauneey Smith for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

In the court below, the defendant questioned the validity of
the surrender of the original patent and of the reissue; but,
from the view we take of the alleged invention or discovery,
it is unnecessary to consider this point. We shall treat the
reissue as for the same invention or discovery, differing in
no substantial particular from that originally patented. In
the specification accompanying the reissue, the patentee states
that he has invented a new and useful article, which he
denominates "instantaneous or comminuted glue;" and then
proceeds to describe the glue of commerce previously found in
the market, and to point out the inconveniences attending its
use, and the manner in which they are obviated by his invention. He states that the ordinary glue of commerce was then
sold in the form of hard, angular flakes, and that it required a
good deal of time to prepare it for use,-first by soaking it in
cold water, and afterwards by heating it in a hot-water bath
until the flakes were dissolved. The time thus occupied, he says,

Oct. 1877.]

GLUE Co. V. UPTON.

is saved by his invention, as his article does not require to be
prepared for solution by soaking, is quickly permeated by water,
so that it can be dissolved in large quantities ready for mechanical use in less than five minutes, and in smaller quantities for
domestic use in less than one minute. Another objection stated
to the glue of commerce as previously sold is, that great inconvenience was experienced in retailing it, from the difficulty of
putting it up in small packages, by reason of the sharp, angular
corners and edges of the broken flakes, which cut the wrappers,
causing a waste of time and stock. The new article, he says,
can be put up by machinery or by hand into packages of
uniform size and of regular form and weight, similar to those
in which ground spices are put up for domestic use, and sold
by retail traders. He also states that the new article has a
more pleasing appearance than the ordinary glue of commerce,
in that it has a white color, and is consequently more merchantable, and brings a higher price.
The specification then proceeds to describe the best process
which the inventor has devised for making such instantaneous
glue, and the apparatus or machinery he has used. These
consist of a breaking machine, for crushing the flakes into small
pieces, and of a rasping or grating machine, for comminuting the
broken pieces into uniform grains. But for these mechanical
means or processes the patentee makes no claim, observing, that
it is obvious that other means or processes of crushing or
reduction may be used to manufacture his article out of dry
flake glue or gelatine by a crushing or breaking operation, and
that his claim is only to the comminuted glue as a new article
of manufacture.
It thus appears that the invention claimed is not any new
combination of ingredients, creating a different product, or any
new mechanical means by which a desirable change in the form
of a common article of commerce is obtained; but it consists
only of the ordinary flake glue reduced to small particles by
mechanical division. The advantages from such division consist
in its more ready and rapid solution, its greater convenience
for packing and retailing, and its whiter appearance and enhanced salableness. The whole claim is to an old article of
commerce in a state of mechanical division greater than pre-.

GLUE CO. v. UPTON.

[Sup. Ct.

viously used, but unchanged in composition and properties ;
and the benefits arising from the increased division are such as
appertain to every soluble substance when divided into minute
particles.
This statement, which is substantially a repetition in a condensed form of that by counsel, is supported by reference to
numerous instances where similar results have followed the
mechanical division of soluble objects into small particles; but
we do not deem it necessary to mention them, for the point
involved presents no difficulty. There is nothing new in the
fact that the solution of a soluble substance is accelerated by
increasing its fragmentary division; nor is there any thing
new in the fact that articles with rough angles and edges can
be more readily put up into packages without injury to their
wrappers when reduced by mechanical division into small
particles; nor is there any thing new in the fact that such
articles generally improve in appearance by granulation or
powdering.
A distinction must be observed between a new article of
commerce and a new article which, as such, is patentable.
Any change in form from a previous condition may render the
article new in commerce; as powdered sugar is a different
article in commerce from loaf sugar, and ground coffee is a different article in commerce from coffee in the berry. But to
render the article new in the sense of the patent law, it must
be more or less efficacious, or possess new properties by a combination with other ingredients; not from a mere change of
form produced by a mechanical division. It is only where one
of these results follows that the product of the compound can
be treated as the result of invention or discovery, and be
regarded as a new and useful article. The three advantages
attributed to comminuted glue over the flake glue were, previous to the alleged invention of Goddard, recognized as
following from a division of soluble objects into small particles,
in the treatment of a great variety of articles in constant use
in the kitchens of families, and in pharmacy. Where certain
properties are known to belong generally to classes of articles,
there can be no invention in putting a new species of the class
in a condition for the development of its properties similar to

Oct. 1877.]

RUBBER-COATED, ETC. CO. V. WELLING.

7

that in which other species of the same class have been placed
for similar development; nor can the changed form of the
article from its condition in bulk to small particles, by breaking or bruising or slicing or rasping or filing or grinding or
sifting, or other similar mechanical means, make it a new
article, in the sense of the patent law.
This subject is elaborately considered by the presiding justice of the Circuit Court, in his opinion, with reference to
numerous adjudications of the courts of England and the
United States; and in his conclusion on this point we concur.

-Decreeafrmed.

RUBBER-COATED HARNESS-TRIMMING COMPANY v. WELLNG.
Letters-patent No. 37,941, granted March 17, 1863, to William M. Welling, for an
improvement in rings for martingales, are void for want of novelty, being
merely for a product consisting of a metallic ring enveloped in a composition
of ivory or similar material.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

141r. J . Cla!yton and MIr. HT. Q. Heasley for the appellants.
1r. .Frederic .Betts, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
William M. Welling brought this suit in the Circuit Court
against the Rubber-Coated Harness-Trimming Company and
others, alleging an infringement of his letters-patent No.
37,941, bearing date March 17, 1863, for an improvement in
rings for martingales, and recovered damages. The company
thereupon appealed to this court.
Welling's patent bears date of March 17, 1868, and recites
that a previous patent to him described a particular mode of
making factitious ivory, out of which billiard-balls and rings
of various kinds were manufactured, and states that his present
invention does not relate to that particular composition, but
that "the nature of my said invention consists in the employ-

