Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO v. UNITED STATES.

287

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.
1. The ninth section of the act of July 13, 1866 (14 Stat. 133), imposed upon
"smoking-tobacco sweetened, stemmed, or butted, a tax of forty cents
per pound," and "on smoking-tobacco of all kinds not sweetened, nor
stemmed, nor butted, including that made of stems, or in part of stems;'
fifteen cents per pound. Held, that a mixture of smoking-tobacco, consisting of leaves from which the stems had been removed, and of stems so
manipulated as to be undistinguishable from the leaf, - the proportion of
stems and leaves being the same which they originally bore to each other,was liable to a tax of forty cents per pound, as smoking-tobacco stemmed
or butted.
2. Under the act of March 3, 1865 (13 id. 477), a manufacturer returned such
smoking-tobacco for taxation at thirty-five cents per pound, and after the
passage of the act of July 13, 1866 (supra), at forty cents per pound, until
Aug. 20, 1866, when lie somewhat increased the proportion of stems used,
and for seventeen months thereafter returned it' for taxation at fifteen
cents per pound. Held, that his conduct was evidence proper to be considered by the jury, in connection with other circumstances, in determining whether or not he intended to defraud the United States of the tax to
accrue upon the manufactured and the unmanufactured tobacco found in
his factory at the time of seizure.
8. A. used portions of a building as a tobhcco manufactory, and the remainder
of it as a salesroom, having a counter at which goods were sold at
retail. Cigars and tobacco removed from the factory to the salesroom,
for sale at retail, were returned by him for taxation as "sold or removed for sale," though he still owned them. Held, 1. That this was
not such a sale or removal as to entitle the tobacco to be so returned.
2. That A.'s manner of doing business was proper to be considered by the
jury in determining whether or not he thereby intended to defraud the
United States in respect to other tobacco in his manufactory at the time
of seizure.
4. Certain tobacco, liable to a tax of twenty-five cents per pound, was, by the
act of March 3, 1865 (supra), subjected, after the last day of that month, to
a tax of thirty-five cents per pound. On March 8,1865, A. made a fictitious
sale of a large quantity of such tobacco, in order that he might return it as
sold prior to April 1, 1865, and did so return it, paying but twenty-five cents
per pound as the tax thereon. Held, 1. That he was not authorized thus
to return it. 2. That the United States had the right to show the fictitious
character of the transaction as tending to prove an intent to defraud, even
though some of the tobacco was, when actually sold and removed, liable to
pay a tax of but ten cents per pound.
5. Evidence having been given of the foregoing acts and of other violations of
the internal-revenue laws by A., consisting of acts and omissions in connection with the sale and removal of tobacco subject to tax, but unconnected
with the property under seizure, the court instructed the jury, in substance,
that if they found that A. had in fact so violated the internal-revenue

238

LiLIENTHAL'S TOBACCO v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

laws, the burden of proof was upon him to satisfy them that such violations
were not committed by him with intent to defraud the revenue; and that
unless he did so, they might draw the inference that such intent existed; and

from such inference further conclude that the property seized was also held
by him with like intent, as charged in the information. Held, that the instruc-

tion was not erroneous.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was an information filed by the United States, March
27, 1868, in the District Court for the Southern District of New
York, for the condemnation and forfeiture of a quantity of manufactured tobacco, raw materials, and other personal property
seized by the collector of internal revenue for the fourth collection district, March 25, 1868, at the tobacco manufactory of
Christian H. Lilienthal, in the city of New York, for a violation
of sect. 48 of the act of Congress approved June 30, 1864, entitled "An Act to provide internal revenue to support the government to pay interest on the public debt, and for other purposes,"
as amended by the act of July 13, 1866.
Lilienthal appeared, and claimed the property.
The questions which the cise involves are presented in the
following charge of the court to the jury: The issue in this case is a very plain one. The prosecution is
founded on the forty-eighth section of the act of June 30, 1864,
as amended by the ninth section of the act of July 13, 1866
(14 Stat. 111); a section enacted at a comparatively early day in
the history of the internal-revenue acts of this country, and which
has remained on the statute-book, with some modifications, ever
since, and has been enforced in a great many cases. Its provi-sions are these: that where any property subject to a tax under
a law of the United States is found in the possession of any
person, with intent to sell it, or remove it, or dispose of it,
without paying the tax upon it, or without having the tax paid
upon it, or with intent to defraud the internal-revenue laws of
the United States, such property so found under such circumstances in the possession of any person, with such intent, shall
be forfeited to the United States, and may be seized, as this
property was in this case, and be proceeded against in the
manner in which this property is being proceeded against in

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

239

this suit. The same section provides that if any raw materials
are found in the possession of any person, he having the intent
in respect to them, when they are so found in his possession, of
manufacturing them into articles subject to tax, in respect to
which articles he intends that the tax shall not be paid, or that
the revenue shall be defrauded, such raw materials shall be
forfeited to the United States. The same section goes on to
provide that, under such circumstances, not only shall the
articles subject to tax and the raw materials be forfeited, but
all personal property, of any kind whatsoever, found on the
same premises where such offending articles, so to speak, are
found, shall be forfeited. There has been seized, in this case,
not only tobacco in a manufactured state, subject to tax, but
also a large quantity of raw materials, - raw tobacco and other
raw materials,- and a large quantity of personal property connected with this establishment. The report of the appraiser
values the entire property at $104,000. In that amount it was
bonded and delivered to the claimant, and the government
accepted what it regarded as a satisfactory bond, in place of the
property. It is this $104,000 worth of property, consisting
generally of tobacco subject to tax, raw materials, and other
personal property found in this establishment, that is the subject of this suit.
It is for the government to satisfy you that this property was
in this establishment with the intent mentioned, in respect to
it, on the part of those in whose custody and control it was.
For the purpose of making the matter clearly definite, I will
read the language of the statute "All goods, wares, merchandise, articles, or objects on which
taxes are imposed by the provisions of law, which shall be found in
the possession or custody or within the control of any person or
persons, for the purpose of being sold or removed by such person or
persons in fraud of the internal-revenue law, or with design to avoid
payment of said taxes, may be seized by the collector or deputy
collector of the proper district, or by such other collector or deputy
collector as may be specially authorized by the commissioner of
internal revenue for that purpose, and the same shall be forfeited to
the United States; and also all raw materials ibund in the possession of any person or persons intending to manufacture the same

240

LiLIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

into articles of a kind subject to tax, for the purpose of flaudulently
selling such manufactured articles, or with design to avoid the payment of said tax; and also all tools, implements, instruments, and
personal property whatsoever in the place or building, or within
any yard or enclosure, where such articles or such raw materials
shall be found, may also be seized by any collector or deputy collector, and the same shall be forfeited as aforesaid."
The district attorney has stated to you, in his summing up, the
various grounds upon which he claims the forfeiture of the property seized; that is, the various grounds upon which he maintains that he has proved the existence of this intent, in respect
to the taxable tobacco and the raw materials and other property
seized in the factory of Lilienthal. As you have seen, the testimony is entirely testimony in regard to what are alleged to have
been previous acts of omission and of commission on the part
of Lilienthal and persons in his establishment, in respect to
the conduct of their business at previous times in relation to the
internal-revenue laws of the United States. This is a class of
evidence which, as has been expressly adjudicated in many
cases by the Supreme Court of the United States, is perfectly
competent and legitimate evidence from which to infer a fraudulent intent in respect to existing property. It has been held,
in respect to the importation of goods at the custom-house, that
a fraudulent intent in respect to a particular importation of
goods may be legitimately inferred by a jury from a previous
fraudulent intent and previous fraudulent acts, shown in respect
to property previously imported through the custom-house.
There is a large class of cases on that subject, and the doctrine has been recently applied to an action under the internal-revenue laws by the circuit judge of this circuit, in a
case in the northern district of New York in regard to distilled
spirits. It is, therefore, a class of evidence that can 1e legitimately appealed to, and is appealed to, in all cases of this kind.
Sometimes it is accompanied by other evidence, in respect to
an existing intent, in regard to property seized. Sometimes
property seized is found concealed; and to support the idea that
fraud was intended in regard to it, previous fraudulent acts are
given in evidence. Sometimes, as in this case, the evidence
consists almost entirely of testimony in regard to previous acts,

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

241

and to what is claimed by the district attorney to have been the
fraudulent intent existing in such previous acts.
I shall call your attention particularly to the various matters that are relied on by the district attorney. The first one
is in regard to what is called "extra long smoking-tobacco,"
a species of tobacco in regard to which it may be generally
stated that it has in it a very large proportion of stems. It is
a kind of tobacco which, according to the evidence, was manufactured in this establishment, as a part of its ordinary business,
prior to the 1st of August, 1866, at which date commenced this
series of returns, seventeen in number, which are the main
subjects of consideration in this case. It is a species of tobacco
that was manufactured previous to that time, and returned
month by month in the monthly returns. That date is taken
in this case because it is the date when the act of July 13, 1866,
changing the rate of duty on various descriptions of tobacco,
went into operation. Previous to that time the act imposing a
tax on tobacco was the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 469.
That act of March 3, 1865, divided smoking-tobacco into two
classes for taxation. One class, made exclusively of stems,
was taxed fifteen cents a pound; and smoking-tobacco of all
kinds, not included and provided for under the fifteen cents
clause, was taxed thirty-five cents a pound. It appears from
the evidence that the "extra long smoking-tobacco," so made
in this establishment prior to Aug. 1, 1866, and so being made
in it when the act of July 13, 1866, was passed, had been, up
to the 1st of August, 1866, returned by Lilienthal as "smokingtobacco," under this thirty-five cents clause, and not under the
fifteen cents clause. Not being made exclusively of stems, it
was not liable to the fifteen cents tax, and therefore it was
liable to the thirty-five cents tax. It also appears that, for
some twenty days or so after the 1st of August, 1866, when
this new law, July, 1866, went into effect, this "extra long
smoking-tobacco," which had before Aug. 1, 1866, been returned at thirty-five cents, was returned by Lilienthal as liable
to a tax of forty cents, under a clause in the act which so went
into effect Aug. 1, 1866, and was returned by him under the
head of "chewing-tobacco." The reason stated by the claimant
for returning such tobacco as "chewing-tobacco" is, that there
voL. VIL

16

242

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

was no place to insert it in the form of return, except under
It had, however, been prethe head of "chewing-tobacco."
viously returned as "smoking-tobacco," and it was called
"smoking-tobacco" in the price-list issued by the claimant.
After it had been returned for some twenty days after the 1st
of August, 1866, as liable to a tax of forty cents a pound, it was
at all times thereafter returned by the claimant as liable to a
tax of fifteen cents a pound; it was continued at that rate
throughout all the returns, down to the 31st of December,
1867, and all the smoking-tobacco of every kind that was returned by the claimant in all the returns made by him during
all the seventeen months was returned at fifteen cents a pound,
and no smoking-tobacco was returned at forty cents a pound.
There was no class of thirty-five cents smoking-tobacco in
the act of July, 1866. The only classes of smoking-tobacco
in that act were these two, - smoking-tobacco sweetened,
stemmed, or butted, forty cents per pound; and all smokingtobacco not sweetened, nor stemmed, nor butted, including
that made of stems or in part of stems, and imitations thereof,
fifteen cents per pound. A great deal was said in this case
on the argument to the court as to the proper construction
of the act of July, 1866, in regard to the tax on this "extra
long smoking-tobacco." You will recollect that, during the
greater part of the seventeen months after the 1st of August,
1866, all except a very small portion of the time, at the commencement, this "extra long smoking-tobacco" was prepared
by putting into it rather more stems, say ten pounds more in
every ninety pounds of product, than they had been in the
habit of putting in before the 1st of August, 1866. It always had
had a large proportion- not a preponderance- of stems in it,
although it was not made exclusively of stems. I do not consider
it necessary in this case to determine what is the proper interpretation of this fifteen cdnts clause in the act of July, 1866,
or under what head in that act, as a matter of law, this "extra
long smoking-tobacco," manufactured in the manner described
by Dennerker, properly falls. The facts, to recapitulate them,
about which there is no dispute, in regard to this "extra long
smoking-tobacco" are, that at the time this act of July 13, 1866,
went into effect, Lilienthal was manufacturing this "extra long

Oct. 1877.]

LiLIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

243

smoking-tobacco;" that, previous to that time, he had returned
it at thirty-five cents a pound, as "smoking-tobacco," under the
act of March 3, 1865; that after the act of July, 1866, went
into effect, and until about the 20th or 21st of August, 1866, he
returned it at forty cents a pound; and that after that time
the mass, if not all of it, during the entire residue of the seventeen months, was returned at fifteen cents a pound,-- there being
no difference whatever in the tobacco during all the periods
when it was so returned at the several rates of thirty-five, forty,
and fifteen cents, except that during almost all of the seventeen
months, commencing with August, 1866, it contained in every
ninety or one hundred pounds ten pounds more of stems than it
had before August, 1866, been in the habit of containing. The
quantity of it in the returns for such seventeen months was
quite large. The district attorney claims that the average was
about five thousand pounds a month; and, at all events, the
quantity was considerable.
The district attorney has addressed to you an argument for
the purpose of showing that, no matter what the interpretation
of the act of July, 1866, may properly be, the conduct of Lilienthal in regard to this "extra long smoking-tobacco" shows
an intent on his part throughout to defraud the government in
regard to the tax upon such tobacco. It is for you to say
whether you believe that he has established the proposition for
which he contends. The theory on the part of the defence is,
that because this tobacco had some stems in it, it was liable to
a tax of fifteen cents a pound; that, at all events, Lilienthal,
reading the law for himself, had a right to think that it was
capable of a double interpretation, and that there could be no
fraudulent design or intent on his part until his attention was
in some way called to the subject, or until the matter had been
judicially determined. The district attorney on his part contends that if to put any stems whatever into the tobacco
reduces it to a fifteen-cent tax, it makes no difference how
much stems there are in it, more or less; and that therefore
the testimony in regard to putting more stems into this tobacco
has no bearing upon any honest transactions in regard to this
matter. In other words, he claims that if the ground taken by
Lilienthal at the time, that this tobacco was liable to the fifteen

244

LILIENTHAL'S ToBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

cents tax because it had some stems in it, was correct, and that
all tobacco, under the act of July, 1866, which had any stems
in it, or was made in part of stems, was liable to fifteen cents a
pound tax and not forty cents, then it was absurd to put in any
more stems, because the quantity of stems that was in already
was entirely sufficient to bring the tobacco within the fifteen
cents tax. It is for you to say what force and weight you will
give to this argument. In that connection the district attorney
calls attention to the fact that, all through the seventeen months,
all the smoking-tobacco that was returned by Lilienthal was returned at the fifteen cents rate, and none was returned at forty
cents a pound. He also claims that the books of Lilienthal
show that Lilienthal had a purpose to benefit himself, and not
to deal honestly with the government, in this: that what was
returned by him at forty cents a pound, during the short time
he returned it at that rate, after the act of July, 1866, went
into operation, appears by the books to have been sold at seventy cents a pound; and when he returned the tobacco at
fifteen cents a pound, thus reducing the tax by twenty-five
cents a pound, he reduced his price to the purchaser by only
ten cents a pound for the same tobacco, with the same increased
quantity of stems in it, - thus making to himself a clear difference in his own favor, as is claimed, of fifteen cents a pound
out of the twenty-five cents a pound reduction in the tax.
That is claimed by the district attorney to be a circumstance
to be taken into consideration.
It is also claimed by tlhe
district attorney that there is no evidence to show that the
government had any information until February, 1867, as to
how this "extra long smoking-tobacco" was made; that at that
time, when such information was communicated to Van Wyck,
the collector, as is shown by his letter of M\arch, 1867, to the
Internal-Revenue Office, he supposed the state of facts to exist
which is disclosed in that letter, namely, that the identical
stems which were taken out of the tobacco for the purpose of
being subjected to this treatment, which would assimilate them
to leaf-tobacco in appearance, and perhaps in flavor, were put
back with the leaves from which they were taken; that the
internal-revenue office, when, in August, 1867, it replied to
the letter of Van Wyck, acted upon that idea, and in this way:

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S

TOBACCO

V. UNITED

STATES.

245

that while the act of July 13, 1866, said that smoking-tobacco
stemmed should pay a tax of forty cents a pound, the commissioner of internal revenue stretched a point in favor of the
tobacco manufacturers by saying to them: "Although you take
away physically the stems from the leaves in the course of your
manufacture, so that in one sense the tobacco is stemmed,
nevertheless, for the purpose of giving you the privilege of
putting those stems through this manipulation, we will consider
that the tobacco is not stemmed, provided you put back those
identical stems with the leaves to which they belong." The
district attorney also contends that, inasmuch as the claimant
returned this tobacco, under the act of 1865, at the rate of
thirty-five cents, and then returned it for a little while, under
the act of 1866, at forty cents, and then changed the rate to
fifteen cents, he has not shown honesty and good faith, because
it does not appear that he laid all the facts before the InternalRevenue Department, and asked what the tax on the tobacco
should be, but put it down, month after month, at fifteen cents
a pound, -without raising the question whether the rate ought
not, perhaps, to be forty cents. These I understand to be
substantially the views urged on the part of the government in
regard to that question. You will perceive that those views
are, as I said before, entirely irrespective of any determination,
as a matter of law, as to what in fact the tax on that tobacco
was; and it is for you to say what inference you will draw from
all this testimony in regard to the intent Lilienthal had in
respect to this "extra long smoking-tobacco." The question
applies to the entire series of months from August, 1866, to
December, 1867. The seizure took place in March, 1868; and
it appears from the inventory of the property seized that there
was among it a considerable quantity of "extra long smokingtobacco," some of it loose and some of it in papers. These are
all the remarks which it seems necessary to make to you in
regard to this "extra long smoking-tobacco."
The next subject is the Orinoco tobacco, which -was sent to
California in April and May, 1867,- on the 13th of April,
thirty-six hundred pounds, and on the 29th of May, thirty-four
hundred pounds. It is admitted that this tobacco was not
returned for tax at that time, - April and May, 1867. There

246

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO v. UNITED STATES..

[SUp. Ct.

is no dispute that it was sent out of the establishment at that
time; that it was removed for sale at that time; that it was
sent to California to be sold at that time; and that it was not
put into any return at that time. If it had been put into a
return at that time, there is no dispute that it would have come
under the fifteen cents tax under the act of 1866, because it
was tobacco which had not been in any manner stemmed. It
was leaf and stem together, just as it grew, pressed into a mass,
into a cake. Not having been stemmed, it was not subject to a
duty of forty cents a pound, and it fell directly under the fifteen
cents clause, as smoking-tobacco not stemmed. The history of
that tobacco, as developed, is this: It was returned for tax as a
portion of a larger mass of the same description of tobacco,
Orinoco tobacco, on the 31st of March, 1865, the day before
the 1st of April, 1865, and the day before the act of March 3,
1865, went into effect. That act of March 3, 1865, imposed a
higher tax upon that description of tobacco than it had been
previously subject to under the act of June 30, 1864. Under
the act of June 80, 1864, that tobacco was liable for a tax of
twenty-five cents a pound. The provision of that act was:
"Smoking-tobacco, manufactured with all the stem in, the leaf
not having been butted or stripped from the stem, twenty-five
cents per pound." Under the act of March 3, 1865, which was
to go into effect on the 1st of April, 1865, this tobacco, which,
up to the close of the 31st March, 1865, was liable to a tax of
twenty-five cents a pound, would have been liable to a tax of
thirty-five cents a pound, being an increase of ten cents a pound.
Lilienthal at that time went through the process that was developed on the trial, and stated by himself in his testimony, of
entering upon his sales-book a sale, or a transaction as a sale, of
the mass of Orinoco tobacco, of which this seven thousand
pounds, which were afterwards sent to California in April and
May, 1867, formed a part, and of a large quantity of other
tobacco, in all some $60,000 worth, to a house in this city,
Kearney & Waterman. Kearney & Waterman gave him their
check for that amount, and, two or three days afterwards, he
gave to Kearney & Waterman his check for the same amount.
The tobacco was not removed from his establishment, and never
passed into the possession of Kearney & Waterman. Lilienthal

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

247

kept it on his own premises, and, after he brought it back (as the
expression is) he treated it as his own, and disposed of it as such.
In connection with such alleged sale in that way to Kearney &
Wraterman, on the 31st of March, 1865, Lilienthal put that
Orinoco tobacco into the tax, at that date, at the rate of twentyfive cents a pound, and returned it as sold. He told you frankly
on the stand that he went through this operation because,
under the law of 1865, there was going to be a higher duty on
such tobacco. He kept the tobacco on hand so long that there
came another change in the law, and by the time he sent it to
California, if he had not paid any tax on it before, he would
have had to pay on it a tax of only fifteen cents a pound. It is
my duty to say to you that that transaction was utterly illegal.
The ninety-fourth section of the act of June 30, 1864, under
which Lilienthal was acting at the time he returned this tobacco
for tax on the 31st of March, 1865, before the act of March 3,
1865, went into effect, provided as follows: "Upon the articles,
goods, wares, and merchandise hereinafter mentioned, except
where otherwise provided," which includes this tobacco taxable
at twenty-five cents a pound, "which shall be produced and
sold, or be manufactured or made and sold, or be consumed
or used by the manufacturer or producer thereof, or removed
for consumption or for delivery to others than agents of the
manufacturer or producer, within the United States or territories thereof, there shall be levied, collected, and paid the following duties, to be paid by the producer or manufacturer
thereof." It is perfectly clear that that transaction was no real
sale of the property. It was not intended to be a sale. It was,
as it has been well characterized here, a perfect sham, from
beginning to end. Now, it was illegal to return the Orinoco
tobacco for tax, because it was not sold, nor was it removed for
consumption. The words "removed for consumption," in the
act of 1864, are defined by the provisions of the ninety-first
section of the same act. The property must be removed from
the premises of the manufacturer in good faith, with a then
present intention to have it consumed, as against the will of the
manufacturer and owner of it, giving a right to another person
to put it into consumption, or the property in it must in some
way be changed, or it must be sent for sale on commission, or,

248

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

in some way or other, an intention to put it into the category
prescribed by the act must be manifested in regard to it. But
this property, you will remember, remained on the premises of
Lilienthal, not disturbed in any manner, and was returned for
tax under the circumstances stated.
It is claimed on the part of the defence, that, inasmuch as
the tax of twenty-five cents a pound had once been paid upon
this Orinoco tobacco, there was no obligation on the part of
Lilienthal to make a subsequent return of it, and to pay another
tax on it; and that this was the case, a fortiori, if, as was the
fact at the time the tobacco was sent to California, the tax on
it would have been fifteen cents a pound. In this connection
reference was made to the following provision in the seventh
section of the act of July 13, 1866, which went into effect on
the 1st of August, 1866, and was in force when this Orinoco
tobacco was sent to California, in April and May, 1867: "All
manufactures and productions on which a duty was imposed by
either of the acts repealed by this act," which embraces the
provisions imposing duties on tobacco contained in the previous
act of June, 1864, which was the act in force when this tobacco
was returned for tax on the 31st of March, 1865, "which shall
be in the possession of the manufacturer or producer, or of his
agent or agents, on the day this act takes effect, the duty imposed by any such former act not having been paid, shall be
held and deemed to have been manufactured or produced after
such date." The defence contends that the duty on this tobacco
had been paid, within this provision. But that is not the law.
The law says, all manufactures "on which a duty was imposed,"
"the duty imposed" by the act of 1864 not having been paid.
Now, no duty was imposed upon this Orinoco tobacco. A duty
was imposed upon it only when it was sold in good faith or removed for consumption. There was no duty imposed upon it
at the time it was returned for tax at twenty-five cents a pound.
The claimant had no right to return it at twenty-five cents, particularly when it is acknowledged by himself, on the stand, that
he did so for the purpose of getting rid of the coming thirty-five
cents duty, and when, therefore, it is clear that there was an
intent to commit a fraud on the government. The act of 1866
only applies to the payment of a duty which has been imposed.

Oct.

1877.]

LLIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

249

Otherwise a party would be able to take advantage of his own
wrong, by paying a tax of twenty-five cents a pound for the purpose of getting rid of a tax of thirty-five cents that was going into
effect the next day, and paying the tax when the law gave him
no right to pay it, and afterwards to say that, because he had
paid it, there was no intent to defraud the government, and that
thus the fraud so committed was condoned. The law is not so.
The law merely says that if a tax which has been imposed has
been paid, no tax can be collected again on the same article.
You are to consider the question not solely in the light of the
fact that the law happened to be altered again, and the duty to
be reduced from thirty-five cents to fifteen cents a pound, before
the tobacco was sent to California, but also in the light of
what Lilienthal did, and what his intent was, in regard to the
tobacco, as bearing upon his intent in regard to the tobacco
found in his possession when his establishment was seized.
The district attorney has called your attention, very properly,
to the fact that the law, in all its provisions, aims at this: that
manufacturers of tobacco shall not be allowed to aggregate in
their establishments large quantities of tax-paid" goods. An
account is to be kept of goods sold, as they are sold and removed. They are to be removed from the premises, -removed
for consumption. They are not to be returned in masses, at
the pleasure of the manufacturer, at a given time, without being
disturbed in any manner or removed from his establishment, so
that he may be enabled to have on hand a large mass of goods,
from which he can say, at any time, that any particular goods
sold which cannot be traced were taken. These considerations,
addressed to you, are considerations of force, and are to be taken
into view by you in judging of the intent with which a manufacturer aggregates upon his premises, without removing therefrom, a large quantity of tax-paid goods, such a practice being
against all the provisions of the law, and directly unlawful in
respect to this Orinoco tobacco, so returned for tax on the 31st
of March, 1865.
The next subject in regard to which the district attorney
claims that a fraudulent intent is shown on the part of Lilienthal is in respect to the account which, by the ninetieth section
of the act of 1864, as amended by the ninth section of the act

250

LILIENTHAL'S

TOBACCO V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of 1866, is required to be kept by every tobacco manufacturer.
We have had exhibited here all the books on the subject kept in
this establishment. They appear not to be blank forms printed,
but to be entirely in writing. This one is headed, "Account of
tobacco and snuff sold by C. H. Lilienthal in the year 1867." The
heading is all in writing. This one that preceded it appears to
have a heading in print. But in regard to both of them, it may
be said that they ,embrace nothing but goods sold. They in no
manner embrace, or pretend to embrace, goods manufactured.
The earlier book is headed, "Quantity of tobacco and snuff
sold and consumed, and removed for sale or consumption, from
the factory;" and the latter book is headed, "Account of tobacco and snuff sold." In regard to this matter the law is
explicit. It requires every manufacturer of tobacco, snuff, or
cigars to "keep in book form an accurate account of all the
articles aforesaid thereafter purchased by him, the quantity of
tobacco, snuff, snuff-flour, or cigars, of whatever description,
manufactured, sold, consumed, or removed for consumption or
sale, or removed from the place of manufacture." It is perfectly clear that, in this case, no such book was kept by Lilienthal, and no book showing in any manner the manufactured
goods, but showing only those that were sold. "Manufactured"
goods means goods the manufacture of which is completed, so
that the goods are in a condition to be sold, and so that all that
needs to be done, if a purchaser asks for them, is to deliver
them. No account of such goods was kept. When the manufacturer comes to make up his abstract, and hand it in to the
assessor, be is not required to hand in an abstract of goods
manufactured. He is required to hand in only an abstract of
goods purchased, sold, or removed. But Lilienthal, as you perceive, had, in the abstracts returned by him, a column for goods
manufactured, as well as one for goods sold and removed for
sale. He had no book, however, from which he could obtain
any entries to put into the column of goods manufactured,
because no such book was kept; and therefore that happened
which you naturally expect would happen. He filled up the
column of goods sold, in the abstract furnished to the government, from the book kept by him, of goods sold; and when he
came to fill up the column of goods manufactured, having no

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACICO V. UNITED STATES.

251

record of them, he put down in every case, as manufactured,
the same quantity which he put down as sold.
It was a clear violation of law not to keep an account of
goods manufactured. The reason why the law requires this
book of goods manufactured to be kept, although it does not
require the abstract returned by the tenth day of each month
to set forth the goods manufactured, is, that the manufacturer
is required to furnish a statement or inventory every January,
setting forth all the property he has on hand in his business,
and what portion of the goods was manufactured or produced
by him, and what portion was purchased from others. Therefore, unless a record be kept of goods manufactured, it is
impossible for the manufacturer to comply with the law, by
handing in every January a true statement of all the goods
on hand, specifying which of them were manufactured or produced by him, and which of them were purchased.
The district attorney has also called your attention to the
inventories furnished by Lilienthal for 1867 and 1868, and to
what he claims are discrepancies between them and the monthly
returns made to the government. It is for you to say what
inference you will draw therefrom with regard to any intent on
the part of Lilienthal. The twelve returns for 1867, in respect
to chewing-tobacco, correspond throughout, in the columns for
manufacture and sale, so many pounds being manufactured,
and the same number of pounds being sold, in the same month.
As a matter of course, the quantity of manufactured chewingtobacco set forth as on hand in the inventory of 1868 ought not
to have been greater or less than the quantity of manufactured
chewing-tobacco set forth as on hand in the inventory of 1867;
and yet the district attorney states that the two inventories
differ in that respect. So, in regard to fine-cut shorts, the two
columns for manufacture and sale are alike in the twelve returns
for the year 1867, and yet the two inventories do not correspond in respect to fine-cut shorts. So in regard to smokingtobacco, the district attorney claims there is a like discrepancy.
He also claims that the Orinoco tobacco, if it were sold and
brought back, ought to have been returned as purchased goods
on hand on the 1st of January, 1867, whereas he claims it
was not so returned. All these circumstances are commented

252

LILIENTHAL'S TOBA6CO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot

upon by the district attorney, for the purpose of inferring from
them an intent on the part of Lilienthal throughout, in the
manner in which he kept his books, and in the manner in
which he returned for tax, under the act of 1865, the tobacco
which he had on hand when that act went into effect, and in
the fact that he kept on hand a large quantity of tax-paid
tobacco, contrary to the policy of the law, not to deal honestly
with the government, but to violate the law, and thence of
inferring a fraudulent intent in regard to the goods on hand
in his establishment when it was seized.
The last subject to which attention was called by the district attorney was the result of the examination of the books
of the claimant. It appears. from them, in respect particularly
to that which occupied so much time in the investigation, - the
Orinoco tobacco and the killickinick tobacco, -that there are
large quantities of granulated tobacco found in the order-books
that are not found, in the same specific items, in the tax-books,
and large quantities of granulated tobacco returned for tax in
the tax-books which cannot be identified with any specific
items in the order-books. A great many items were identified,
and, in regard to those which could not be, you will recollect
the testimony of Dennerker. When asked, " Where did the
granulated tobacco come from which filled the orders in the
order-books, which cannot be identified as items in the taxbooks?" it was part, he said, of a large mass that had been
entered for tax on a certain day, and taken downstairs into the
retail-counter department. Under the law, that was a wholly
illegal mode of doing business. Lilienthal had no right arbitrarily to take a quantity of killickinick tobacco and return it
for tax, and remove it downstairs into his retail-counter department, or into any other part of his premises, and peddle
it out by the pound from day to day for an indefinite period of
time. When it was so entered for tax, as I stated before in
regard to the Orinoco tobacco, it had not been sold, and it was
not removed for consumption, within the law. Removing it
from upstairs to downstairs was not a removal for consumption,
within the meaning of the statute. In addition to that, it is
admitted that, when tobacco so taken in masses, and returned
for tax, and then taken downstairs to the retail counter, was

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO v. UNITED STATES.

258

sold at the retail counter afterwards, no record of those sales
was kept, in any manner whatever. The ninetieth section of
the act of 1864, as amended by the act of 1866, requires that a
record shall be -kept of all sales, and that an abstract of such
sales shall be returned by the tenth day of each month. This
property, when it was taken from upstairs to the retail-counter
room, was not sold by Lilienthal to anybody. It was not sold
to himself. It was not removed from his premises for consumption. It was taken from upstairs and brought downstairs, and,
when it was sold over the counter, no record of it was kept,
in utter violation of the statute, and no abstract of it was
returned, in violation of the statute. Lilienthal arbitrarily
took three hundred or four hundred pQunds and returned it for
tax to-day, and then carried it downstairs, and then kept no
record whatever of its subsequent sale. So that the purpose
of the law was defeated by this transaction, because the government could have no means, when it got hold of Lilienthal's
books, of tracing the sales of the tobacco. The fact that the
government has been foiled in tracing such sales has been
demonstrated here, because, no record of the sales having been
kept, whenever any order which was found in the order-book
could not be identified with an item in the tax-book, specifically
returned as so many pounds, Dennerker testified that the order
was filled out of the masses of tobacco which so went downstairs to the retail counter. The business, therefore, was conducted in such a manner as to deprive the government of what
the law designed to provide, namely, a check over the transactions of tobacco manufacturers.
I have thus gone over the books of the claimant. It was
necessary that I should show you what are violations of the
law, in order that, if you should come to the conclusion, from
the evidence, that such violations of law, in point of fact, took
place, and that they showed an intent on the part of Lilienthal
to defraud the revenue, you might have before you the law and
the facts from which the district attorney claims that you have
a right to infer a fraudulent intent on the part of Lilienthal, in respect to the tobacco on hand at the time of the
seizure. I do not design to intimate any opinion whatever in
regard to any intent on the part of Lilienthal in respect to

254

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

these matters. But the facts in this case are undisputed.
There is no serious contest about a single fact, except in
regard to the very point of the law,- the intent. On the
part of the claimant, it is claimed that the investigation before
you has shown that, in point of fact, the government has not
proved that it has been deprived of any tax; and also that it
has been shown affirmatively, by an examination of the books,
that the government has received all the taxes to which it was
entitled, upon all goods which passed out of the establishment
of Lilienthal prior to the seizure. You have heard all the evidence and the summing up on that subject, and it will be for
you to say what is your belief on that subject, as bearing on the
question of Lilienthal's intent in respect to the goods seized.
The instructions of law prayed by the claimant are twelve
in number, to all of which I assent. The thirteenth and fourteenth instructions, which are requests to charge as to the facts,
I decline to charge, as not being questions of law.
The propositions on the part of the government are substantially what I have already stated, but I will go over them, for
the purpose of saying that I assent to them.
"First. If the jury find that the books, Exhibits Nos. 188
and 138A, were kept by Lilienthal or his agents, as and for
the account in book-form required to be kept by the provisions of the ninetieth section of the act of June 80, 1864, as
amended by the ninth section of the act of July 13, 1866, and
that the said Lilienthal and his agents have therein kept no
account of the quantity of tobacco or snuff manufactured by
said Lilienthal at his factory in Washington Street, from Aug.
1, 1866, to Jan. 1, 1868; that quantities of tobacco and snuff
were removed for sale and removed from the said place of
manufacture during said period, and that no account of the
tobacco and snuff so removed was kept as of removals thereof,
and no accurate account of the tobacco and snuff so removed
was kept in any manner in said books " (that refers to the
sales over the retail counter, of which no record was kept, as
sales) ; "that large quantities of granulated tobacco and other
descriptions of tobacco manufactured were sold by Lilienthal
during said period, and that no account of such sales, as sales,
was kept in those books; that quantities of purchased manu.

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

255

factured tobacco were sold and removed from the said premises
during the period from Aug. 1, 1866, to Dec. 1, 1867, and that
no accurate account of such sales or removals was kept in said
books; that Exhibits numbered 1 to 17, both inclusive, were
furnished to the assistant-assessor of the district by.the said
Lilienthal or his agents as true and accurate abstracts of all
such sales and removals, and were not true and accurate abstracts thereof" (that means, not that they were not true
and accurate abstracts of the books which Lilienthal kept, not
that Dennerker did not transfer them accurately from his taxbook into the return, but that they were not, as recorded by
Davis, true and accurate abstracts of the actual transactions),
"that the annual inventories, Exhibits 18 and 19, were made
out and delivered by said Lilienthal to the assistant-assessor of
the district, severally, as true statements and inventories of
the matters and things therein contained, as required by the
said ninetieth section, as amended as aforesaid; that it appears
from said inventory and abstracts that much more chewingtobacco and fine shorts was manufactured in said manufactory
during the year 1867 than was declared upon said abstracts to
have been manufactured; that a large quantity of smokingtobacco manufactured on said premises has been sold or removed during the year 1867, which had not been returned for
taxation upon the said abstracts, and of which no account was
contained therein or in said books, Exhibits Nos. 138 and
138A,then the burden of proof is upon the claimant to
satisfy the jury that the tobacco so manufactured on said
premises, and sold or removed without due account, return,
and entry made thereof in the said books and abstracts, in the
manner required by law, was not so sold and removed in fraud
of the internal-revenue laws, and with the intent to evade the
taxes thereon; and if the claimant shall not have so satisfied
the jury of his intent respecting the same, the jury may infer
that the claimant's intent in respect to the same was fraudulent,
and that his possession of the goods in suit was with the like
intent."
I also charge the second proposition: "If the jury find that
prior to Aug. 1, 1866, when the act of July 18,1866, went into
effect, changing in some respects the rates of taxation on manu

256

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

factured smoking-tobacco, a brand of smoking-tobacco known as
' extra long smoking-tobacco' had been manufactured by Lilienthal, by cutting together stripped or stemmed leaf and stems
in certain proportions, and had been sold and returned for taxation by him as ' smoking-tobacco,' subject to a tax of thirty-five
cents per pound under the existing law; that from the time
said act of July 13, 1866, went into effect, the said ' extra long
smoking-tobacco,' manufactured as aforesaid, was entered by
said Lilienthal in the account required to be kept in book-form
by the ninetieth section of the act of June 30, 1864, as amended
by the ninth section of the act of July 13, 1866, of sales and
removals of manufactured tobacco, as ' chewing-tobacco,' and
was returned upon the abstracts of said accounts required to
be furnished monthly to the assistant-assessor of the district, by
said section, as ' chewing-tobacco,' subject to a tax of forty
cents per pound, under the provisions of said act of July 13,
1866; that after the said first day of August, 1866, said Lilienthal varied the process of manufacturing said 'extra long
smoking-tobacco' by merely increasing the proportion of stem;
and from the twenty-first day of August, 1866, in each monthly
return during the years 1866 and 1867, returned for taxation
sales and removals of large quantities of the ' extra long smokingtobacco,' so manufactured as 'smokingA-tobacco,' subject to a
tax of fifteen cents per pound under the provisions of said act
of July 13, 1866; that the said ' extra long smoking-tobacco,'
returned as ' chewing-tobacco' for taxation at the rate of forty
cents per pound, was sold at seventy cents per pound, and the
said 'extialong smoking-tobacco' returned as ' smoking-tobacco'
for taxation at the rate of fifteen cents per pound, was sold at
the rate of sixty cents per pound; that no officer of internal
revenue was advised by Lilienthal or his agents of the said
practice of returning the said ' extra long smoking-tobacco' for
taxation at fifteen cents per pound; that the commissioner of
internal revenue had published his instructions and opinion
that tobacco so manufactured was subject, under the said act
of 1866, to the tax of forty cents per pound, as 'smokingtobacco,' and never directly or indirectly countenanced or
sanctioned the practice of Lilienthal in returning the said
'extra long smoking-tobacco;' and if the jury believe from

Oct. 1877.]

ILIENTHAL'S

TOBACCO

v. UNITED STATES.

257

these facts that said Lilienthal and his agents made the
said change in the process of manufacturing the said 'extra
long smoking-tobacco,' and the said change in the manner
of returning the same for taxation, during the said period
from Aug. 1, 1866, to Jan. 1, 1868, for the purpose of selling
and removing the same in fraud of internal-revenue laws, and
with intent to evade the payment of taxes thereon, - then they
would have a right to infer that the claimant and his agents
had the like intent with respect to the property in suit."
I believe these are all the considerations which it is necessary
to present to you in regard to this matter. You have listened
patiently to the evidence, and to the summing up of the counsel, which has been exceedingly clear and thorough on both
sides, and it is for you to say, on your oaths, what you believe
to have been the intent of Lilienthal in respect to this property so seized. If the government has not made out, to your
satisfaction, that such intent to commit a fraud upon the law or
to evade the payment of taxes, in respect either to the goods
on hand or to the goods to be manufactured out of the raw
materials on hand, existed on the part of Lilienthal at the time
the goods were seized, your verdict will be for the claimant.
The instructions prayed for by Lilienthal, and refused, as
well as his exceptions to the charge as given, will appear in
his assignment of errors in this court.
There was a verdict "for the United States, condemning the
goods," and a judgment rendered, condemning them "as forfeited to the United States." The judgment was, on error,
affirmed by the Circuit Court; and Lilienthal thereupon sued
out this writ, and here assigns for error that the court below
erred 1. In refusing to grant the claimant's thirteenth prayer,
"That there is no evidence in this action that, at the time of
the finding or seizure of the property in this action, the claimant had not paid all the taxes due on all the goods, wares,
merchandise, articles, or objects which had been before that
date manufactured at his factory, and sold or removed therefrom."
2. In refusing to grant the claimant's fourteenth prayer,
"That there is no evidence in this action that any goods,
voL. vi.

17

258

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

wares, merchandise, articles, or objects on which taxes were
imposed by the provisions of law, manufactured at the factory
of Lilienthal, were ever sold or removed by him, or by any
other person, in fraud of the internal-revenue laws, or with design to avoid payment of said taxes."
3. In. refusing the claimant's following prayer: "If the
jury find that, in the process of manufacturing the 'extra
long smoking-tobacco,' a portion of the stem was removed
from the leaf, and an amount of stem fully equal to or exceeding the quantity removed was subsequently, during said
process, added to and intermingled with the leaf, so that, in
point of fact, the manufactured product was composed of both
stem and leaf, and so sold, that tobacco was, between August,
1866, and the date of. seizure, liable to a tax of only fifteen cents
per pound, and was properly returned at that rate."
4. In refusing the claimant's further prayer, " That the' extra
long smoking-tobacco,' if manufactured in the manner testified
to by Dennerker, was smoking-tobacco made in part of stems,
and was liable, under the act of July 13, 1866, to a tax of fifteen cents per pound during all the time subsequent to Aug.
1, 1866, and prior to the date of seizure of the property proceeded against in this action."
5. In refusing the claimant's further prayer, "That if
the ' extra long smoking-tobacco' returned as liable to the
fifteen cents rate was manufactured in the manner stated
in the testimony of Dennerker, and contained a quantity
of stem as great as, or greater than, that which grew with
the leaf contained in said tobacco, then the said tobacco
was liable, between Aug. 1, 1866, and the time of the seizure
of the property herein proceeded against, to the fifteen cents
tax, as returned."
6. In granting the first prayer, asked on behalf of the government.
7. In granting the second prayer asked on behalf of the
government.
8. In charging the jury that "Under the act of March 3,
1865, which was to go into effect on the 1st of April, 1865, this
tobacco (that known as the Orinoco tobacco), which, up to the
close of the 8st of March, 1865, was liable to a tax of twenty-

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

259

five cents a pound, would have been liable to a tax of thirty-five
cents a pound."
9. In charging the jury as follows: "It is my duty to say to
you that that transaction (the affair of the Orinoco tobacco)
was utterly illegal."
10. In charging the jury that "It was illegal to return the
Orinoco tobacco for tax, because it was not sold, nor was it
removed for consumption."
11. In charging the jury that "It is claimed on the part of
the defence, that, inasmuch as the tax of twenty-five cents a
pound had once been paid upon this Orinoco tobacco, there was
no obligation on the part of Lilienthal to make a subsequent
return of it, and to pay another tax on it; and that this was
the case, afortiori,if, as was the fact at the time the tobacco
was sent to California, the tax on it would have been fifteen
cents a pound. In this connection reference was made to the
following provision in the seventieth section of the act of July
13, 1866, which went into effect on the 1st of August, 1866,
and was in force when this Orinoco tobacco was sent to California, in April and May, 1867: 'All manufactures and productions on which a duty was imposed by either of the acts
repealed by this act,'-which embraces the provisions imposing
duties on tobacco contained in the previous act of June, 1864,
which was the act in force when this tobacco was returned for
tax on the 31st of March, 1865, -' which shall be in the possession of the manufacturer or producer, or of his agent or agents,
on the day this act takes effect, the duty imposed by any such
former act not having been paid, shall be held and deemed to
have been manufactured or produced after such date.' The
defence contends that the duty on this tobacco had been paid,
within this provision. But that is not the law. The law says,
all manufactures ' on which a duty was imposed " the duty imposed' by the act of 1864 not having been paid. Now, no duty
was imposed on this Orinoco tobacco. A duty was imposed
upon it only when it was sold in good faith, or removed for
consumption. There was no duty imposed upon it at the time
it was returned for tax at twenty-five cents a pound. The
claimant had no-right to return it at twenty-five cents, particularly when it is acknowledged by himself on the stand that he

260

LILIENTt kL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

did so for the purpose of getting rid of the coming thirty five
cents duty, and when, therefore, it is clear that there was an
intent to commit a fraud on the government. The act of 1866
only applies to the payment of a duty which has been imposed.
Otherwise, a party would be able to take advantage of his own
wrong, by paying a tax of twenty-five cents a pound for the
purpose of getting rid of a tax of thirty-five cents that was
going into effect next day, and paying the tax when the law gave
him no right to pay it, and afterwards to say that, because he
had paid it, there was no intent to defraud the government,
and that thus the fraud so committed was condoned. The
law is not so. The law merely says, that if a tax which has
been imposed has been paid, no tax can be collected again on
the same article. You are to consider the question not solely
in the light of the fact that the law happened to be altered
again, and the duty to be reduced from thirty-five cents to
fifteen cents a pound, before the tobacco was sent to California,
but also in the light of what Lilienthal did, and what his intent
was, in regard to the tobacco, as bearing upon his intent in
regard to the tobacco found in his possession when his establishment was seized."
12. In charging the jury that "It was a clear violation of
law not to keep an account of goods manufactured (as well as
of goods sold)."
18. In charging the jury that, "Unless a record be kept of
goods manufactured, it is impossible for the manufacturer
to comply with the law by handing in, every January, a true
statement of all the goods on hand, specifying which of them
were manufactured or produced by him, and which of them were
purchased."
14. In charging the jury that "There are large quantities of
granulated tobacco found in the order-books that are not found
in the specific items in the tax-books, and large quantities of
granulated tobacco returned for tax in the tax-books which
cannot be identified with any specific items in the order-books.
A great many items were identified, and in regard to those
which could not be, you will recollect the testimony of Dennerker. When asked, ' Where did the granulated tobacco come
from which filled the orders in the order-books which cannot

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO v. UNITED STATES.

261

be identified as items in the tax-books ?' it was part, he said, of
a large mass that had been entered for tax on a certain
day, and taken downstairs into the retail-counter department.
Under the law, that was a wholly illegal mode of doing business. Lilienthal had no right arbitrarily to take a quantity of
killickinick tobacco and return it for tax, and remove it downstairs into his retail-counter department, or into any other part
of his premises, and peddle it out by the pound from day to
day for an indefinite period of time."
15. In entering judgment upon the verdict of the jury.
16. In entering any judgment whatever against the claimant
or his property in the premises.
J3,2% Richard T. ferrick, for Lilienthal.
Mr.Assistant-Attorney- General Smith, contra.
MR. JUSTIcE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Articles or objects on which duties are imposed, found in
the possession, custody, or control of any person for the purpose
of being sold or removed by such person in fraud of the internal-revenue laws, or with design to avoid the payment of
the duties imposed, may be seized by the proper officer, as
therein provided, and the provision is that the same shall be
forfeited to the United States. 13 Stat. 240.
Provision is also made by the same section for the seizure by
the proper officer of all raw materials found in the possession
of any such person intending to manufacture the same for the
purpose of sale in fraud of said laws, or with the design to
evade the payment of the said duties; and also for the seizure
of all tools, implements, instruments, and personal property
whatsoever in the place or building or within any yard or enclosure where such articles may be found, which were intended
to be used by such person in such fraudulent manufacture;
and the provision is that all such articles shall also be forfeited to the United States, by a proceeding in rem in the
Circuit or District Court in the district where such seizures
were made.
Due seizure was made in this case, and it appears that at
that date smoking-tobacco of all kinds, if sweetened, stemmed,or butted, was by law subject to a tax of forty cents per pound,

262

LILiENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

and that such tobacco of all kinds, if not sweetened nor
stemmed or butted, including that made of stems and imitations thereof, was subject to a tax of fifteen cents per pound.
14 id. 138.
Fourteen prayers for instruction were then presented by the
.claimant, all of which except the last two were given to the
jury. Two prayers for instruction were presented by the prosecutor, both of which the court gave to the jury; and the
claimant excepted to the rulings of the court in refusing
the last two of his requests and in giving those presented by
the prosecutor.
Subsequent to the charge of the court additional prayers for
instructions were presented by the claimant, some of which
were refused and were made the subject of exception by his
counsel. Instructions were given by the presiding justice on
his own motion, and six exceptions were taken to specific portions of the charge, as set forth in the record. Sixtedn errors
are assigned, embracing every exception except one taken at
the trial. They have all been examined, and, where it is deemed
necessary, they will be separately considered.
1. Numbers 13 and 14 of those presented before the charge
was given to the jury may be considered together, as they involve similar considerations.
Argument to prove that those requests were properly refused is not necessary, as the record shows that much evidence
had been introducedby the prosecutor tending to support the
allegations of the information, that the claimant had not, at
the date of the seizure, paid all the taxes legally due on the
tobacco manufactured at his factory, and that large quantities
of tobacco there manufactured had been sold or removed from
the factory in fraud of the internal-revenue laws, and with the
design to avoid the payment of the taxes. Testimony of the
kind was plainly admissible, and, having been properly intro.
duced, the question, whether it was sufficient to establish the
charge, was beyond all doubt a matter for the jury, which is
all that need be said upon the subject.
2. Three other errors assigned, to wit, the third, fourth, and
fifth, may also be considered together, for the same reason.
Stemmed or butted tobacco was subject to a tax of forty

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO v. UNITED STATES.

263

cents per pound, but if not stemmed or butted nor sweetened
it was only subject to a tax of fifteen cents per pound. Butted
tobacco in large quantities was manufactured by the claimant;
but he contended that the manufacture was still subject only
to the smaller tax, even though the leaf was stemmed or butted,
if the manufacturer during the process added to and intermingled with the leaf an amount of stem equal to that previously withdrawn by the process of stemming or butting: but it
is clear that that theory is wholly inadmissible in this case, for
the reason that the evidence does not show that an equal
amount of stems was added to the leaf during the process of
manufacture; nor would it be a sufficient defence in any case,
for two reasons. 1. Because the practice is not warranted by
the act of Congress; 2. Because it would open the door to
fraud, which could seldom or never be exposed; from which it
follows that tobacco stemmed or butted, even if manufactured
in the manner of that theory, was subject to the higher rate of
tax during all the period specified in the fourth assignment of
error; nor would it benefit the claimant in this case, even if it
appeared in a given case that he put back during the process
of manufacture a quantity of stems as great as that which,grew
in the leaf.
3. Separate exceptions were taken by the claimant to the
ruling of the court in giving the two instructions requested by
the prosecutor, and those two rulings are the subjects of the
sixth and seventh alleged errors of the court.
Suffice it to remark in this connection that the books of the
claimant were introduced, and that the theory of the prosecutor
was that the claimant did not make the required entries in the
same, and that he kept no account for the period specified of
his manufacture; that large quantities of the same during the
same period were sold or removed without making any entry
of the same in the books kept as those required by law for the
purpose, and that no accurate account of the manufactures so
removed was kept in any manner in said books; that large
quantities of granulated tobacco and other descriptions were
during that period sold and removed from the manufactory,
and that no account of such sales and removals was kept in
said books; that seventeen monthly returns were furnished to

264

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

the assistant-assessor as true and accurate abstracts of all such
sales and removals, and that they were not true nor accurate
statements of the manufactured products sold and removed;
that the two annual inventories given in evidence were made
and delivered to the assistant-assessor as true statements of the
matters and things therein contained as required by law; that
it appears from the evidence, as compared with the first inventory and the abstracts, that much more chewing-tobacco
and fine shorts were there manufactured during that year than
is stated in said abstracts; and that a large quantity of smokingtobacco manufactured at his factory had been sold or removed
during the same year which had not been returned for taxation,
of which no account was given in the said abstracts or in the
said books.
Enough appears to show that the prosecutor gave evidence
tending to prove all of those allegations; and the court instructed the jury, pursuant to the first request of the prosecutor, that if they found those several allegations to be true,
then the burden of proof is upon the, claimant to satisfy the
jury that the tobacco so manufactured on said premises and
sold or removed without due account, return, and entry made
thereof in the said books and abstracts in the manner required
by law, was not so sold and removed in fraud of the internalrevenue laws and without intent to evade the payment of the
taxes thereon; and if the claimant shall not have so satisfied
the jury of his intent respecting the same, the jury may infer
that the claimant's intent in respect of the same was fraudulent,
and that his possession of the goods in the suit was with the
like intent.
Prayers for instruction are properly framed in that way
where the evidence to support the charge is complicated, conflicting, or of a circumstantial character, as it belongs to the
jury to decide whether the facts and circumstances introduced
in evidence are satisfactorily proved, and it is the province of
the court to determine whether, if fully proved, they will warrant the jury in finding that the allegations which constitute
the charge are established. Pursuant to that view the second
request for instruction to the jury was framed in the same
way.

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

265

Preliminary to the legal proposition which the court was requested to adopt, the prayer presented contains a recital of the
substance of the evidence given to support the charge, put
hypothetically, for the consideration of the jury, appended to
which is the formal part of the prayer to which the exception
embodied in the seventh assignment of error is addressed. It
is as follows: That if the jury believe from these facts that
the claimant made the said change in the process of manufacturing the said long smoking-tobacco and the said change in
the manner of returning the same for taxation, during the
specified period, for the purpose of selling and removing the
same in fraud of the internal-revenue laws and with intent to
evade the payment of the taxes thereon, then they would have a
right to infer that the claimant had the like intent with respect
to the property in suit.
Both of these instructions were given at the request of the
prosecutor, and the claimant insists with much confidence that
the first is erroneous, inasmuch as it declares that in the event
stated the burden of' proof is cast upon the claimant to show
that the acts proved were not done in fraud of the internalrevenue laws; but the court is of a different opinion, for several
reasons. Regulations of the kind in revenue cases have often
been prescribed by Congress. Provision was made in the first
collection act that in actions, suits, or information to be brought
where any seizure shall be made pursuant to that act, if the
property be claimed by any person, in every such case the onus
probandi,if probable cause is shown, shall be upon such claim
ant. 1 Stat. 6T8; Rev. Stat., sect. 900; Locke v. United States,
7 Cranch, 339.
Rules of similar import have been incorporated into the acts
of Congress providing for the collection of internal revenue, as,
for example, sect. 45 of the act of the 13th of July, 1866, provided that proceedings in seizures shall be according to existing
provisions of law in relation to distraint and in conformity with
the regulations of the commissioner, and that the burden of
proof shall be upon the claimant of said spirits, to show that
the requirements of law in regard to the same have been complied with. 14 Stat. 163.
Equally stringent provision in respect to distilled spirits is

266

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

contained in the subsequent act, which was in force at the date
of the transactions involved in the prosecution. 15 id. 140.
By that enactment it is provided that the burden of proof in
the described cases shall be upon the claimant of said spirits, to
show that no fraud has been committed and that all the requirements of the law in relation to the payment of the tax have
been complied with, which is substantially the same as the
provision in the prior act.
In criminal cases the true rule is that the burden of proof
never shifts; that in all cases, before a conviction can be had,
the jury must be satisfied from the evidence, beyond a reasonable doubt, of the affirmative of the issue presented in the
accusation that the defendant is guilty in the manner and form
as charged in the indictment. Commonwealth v. MlI-Eie, 1 Gray
(Mass.), 64; Same v. York, 9 Mete. (Mass.) 125; Same v.
Webster, 5 Cush. (Mass.) 305; Same v. Bddy, 7 Gray (Mass.),
584; Bennett & Heard, Lead. Cr. Cas. 299.
Text-writers of the highest authority state that there is a
distinction between civil and criminal cases in respect to the
degree or quantum of evidence necessary to justify the jury in
finding their verdict. In civil cases their duty is to weigh the
evidence carefully, and to find for the party in whose favor it
preponderates; but in criminal trials the party accused is
entitled to the legal presumption in favor of innocence, which,
in doubtful cases, is always sufficient to turn the scale in his
favor. 3 Greenl. Evid. (8th ed.), sect. 29; 1 Taylor, Evid.
(6th ed.) 372.
Beyond question, the general rule is that the burden of proof
in civil cases lies on the party who substantially asserts the
affirmative of the issue, but the burden may shift during the
progress of the trial. Possession of a negotiable instrument
payable to bearer or indorsed in blank is prima faeie evidence
that the holder is the proper owner and lawful possessor of the
same; but if the defendant prove that the instrument was
fraudulent in its inception, or that it had been lost or stolen
before he became the holder, the burden of proof is changed,
and the onus is cast upon the plaintiff to prove that he gave
value for it when he became the holder. Collins v. ailbert, 94
U. S. 753.

Oct. 1877.]

LILiENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

267

Examples of like character almost without number might be
given; but it is unnecessary, as every one knows that the plaintiff in every case may safely rest when he has introduced proof
to make out a prima facie case. Authorities to show that the
case before the court is a civil case are scarcely necessary, but
if any be needed they are at hand. 1 Bishop, Cr. Law (6th ed.),
sect. 885; Uiited States-v. Three Tons of Coal, 6 Biss. 371;
Schmidt v. Insurance Company, 1 Gray (Mass.);533 ; Eiowles
v. Scribner, 57 Me. 497.
Speaking of a proceeding in rem to forfeit spirituous liquors,
the Supreme Court of New Hampshire say that it is only when
some crime or misdemeanor is charged upon an individual that
all reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused must be
removed ; but here no one is accused of any crime, as it is not
a proceeding against any person. Such being the character of
the proceeding and of the character of the trial, the claimant
may appear by attorney, may make and sign his claim by
attorney, may file his plea in writing and sign it by attorney;
issues may be joined, claims and pleas amended, verdict rendered on the issues, judgment rendered on the verdict, costs
allowed the prevailing party, and execution for cost issued.
State v. Spirituous Liquors, 47 N. H. 375 ; Cooper v. Slade,
6 H. of L. Cas. 772.
Innocence is presumed in a criminal case until the contrary
is proved; or, in other words, reasonable doubt of guilt is in
some cases of the kind ground of acquittal, where, if the probative force of the presumption of innocence were excluded, there
might be a conviction ; but the presumption of innocence as
probative evidence is not applicable in civil cases nor in revenue
seizures, as, for example, when a railyoad company is sued in
damages for negligence, the "issue depends upon the evidence,
without any presumption of innocence or guilt, but the company is not put to defence until a prima facie case of negli.
gence is made out by the plaintiff; but when such a case is
made out, courts do not instruct juries that if there is reasonable doubt as to negligence they must find for the defendant, as such an instruction would be a plain error. Issues
of the kind, however, must be proved at least prima fade;
and if the defendant fails to overcome the prima facie case,

268

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

the jury, if they deem it reasonable, may find for the plaintiff. 2 Whart. Evid., sect. 1245; Gordon v. Parmelee, 15 Gray
(Mass.), 415.
High authority supports the proposition that when a presumption of fact exists against a party in a case of seizure in
rem, the court may instruct the jury that the burden is on such
party to remove the presumption, and that if he does not, the
case must, in an issue in a civil case, go against him on such
point. 1 Whart. Evid., sect. 371.
Whenever evidence is offered to the jury which is in its
nature prima facie or presumptive proof, its character as such
ought not to be disregarded; and no court has a right to direct
a jury to disregard it, or to view it under any different aspect
from that in which it is actually presented. Crane v. Morris
et al., 6 Pet. 598.
Prima facie evidence of a fact, says Mr. Justice Story, is
such evidence as in judgment of law is sufficient to establish
the fact, and, if not rebutted, remains sufficient for the purpose.
6 id. 632; United States v. Wiggins, 14 id. 334.
Suffice it to say, that the observations already made are sufficient to dispose of the exception to the ruling of the court in
giving the second request presented by the prosecutor, without
further examination.
4. The next error assigned is the eighth, which is that the
court erred in charging the jury that the Orinoco tobacco, so
called, would have been liable to a tax of thirty-five cents per
pound; but the court here is of a different opinion.
Goods might be manufactured without being subject to tax,
even if they were intended for sale, unless they were sold, consumed, or removed from the manufactory. 13 Stat. 264,
sect. 94.
Articles, goods, &c., except where otherwise provided, which
shall be produced and sold, or be manufactured or made and
sold, or be consumed or used by the manufacturer or producer,
or be removed for consumption or for delivery to others than
agents within the United States, are declared by that section
to be subject to such taxation.
Manufactured tobacco under that act, if made of the leaf
-with the stem taken out, or if sweetened, was subject to a duty

Oct. 1877.]

LILIENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

269

of thirty-five cents. Smoking-tobacco manufactured of leaf not
stemmed, butted, or stripped was subject to a tax of twentyfive cents per pound.
Before the transaction referred to took place, the amendatory
act of the 13th of July, 1866, was passed, which increased the
rate of taxation on tobacco of the first-named class to forty
cents per pound. Desiring to avoid the payment of the
increased tax, the claimant executed the plan of a fictitious
sale of a large quantity of tobacco which he had on hand, as a
means of effecting that purpose. His own testimony explains
the matter in substance and effect as follows: That the goods
were never delivered to the purchasers, so called, and were
never intended to be delivered, nor were they removed from
his factory; that it was understood between him and those
merchants that the goods were sold and bought back, and
that he believed, though he was not positive about it, that
he exchanged checks with them for the amount of the bill;
that the proceeding was for the purpose of returning the
tobacco as sold in his current monthly return for taxation,
in order to avoid payment of the increased rate of duty to
which the same would be liable when the new revenue act
took effect.
Sales of personal property merely colorable, made with the
intention that the title should not be transferred in reality but
only in appearance, convey no title whatever to the apparent
purchaser. Yyam's Case, 1 De G., F. & J. 79; Bowes v. Foster,
2 H. & N. 783; Cox v. Jaekson, 6 Allen (Mass.), 109.
Throughout, the title was undeniably in the claimant; and
if the tobacco was goods in his possession, it is clear that
it was subject to taxation under the new revenue act, as the
new act, if the duty imposed by either of the two preceding acts had not been paid, provides that all manufactures
and productions on which a duty was imposed by either of
the preceding acts, repealed by that act, in the possession of the
manufacturer or producer, or of his agent or agents, on the
day when that act takes effect, shall be held and deemed to
have been manufactured or produced after that date. 14 Stat.
173, sect. 70.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is plain that the

270

LILIENTHtAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

instruction given is correct, and that the assignment of error
must be overruled.
5. Though slightly different, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh
errors assigned will be re-examined together.
Speaking of the fictitious sale, and the intent it was expected
to accomplish, the judge remarked to the jury that it was his
duty to say to them that the transaction was utterly illegal; in
which the court here fully concurs. Coupled with the averred
motive of the actor, it is clear that it was illegal to return the
tobacco for taxation, for the reason that it had not been sold
nor removed for consumption, nor indeed for any purpose, as it
remained in the manufactory. Where the evidence is without
conflict, and the facts are conceded or fully proved, it is a question of law whether they show a perfected sale. Cutler v.
-Bean, 34 N. I. 299; Burrows v. Stebbins, 26 Vt. 663; Kaine
v. Weigley, 22 Pa. St. 183.
Persons engaged in the manufacture of such products are
required to keep books, and to keep an account of goods manufactured and sold or removed; and the evidence showed in this
case that the claimant did not in certain instances comply with
those requirements, - which is a sufficient answer to the tenth
assignment of error. Nor is it necessary to add any thing to
show, that the, eleventh assignment of error is without merit,
beyond what was remarked in response to the complaint set
forth in the eighth assignment. Nor is it necessary to enter
into any discussion of the twelfth assignment of error, as the
remarks made respecting the ninth and tenth assignments apply
ith equal force to that ground of complaint.
6. Thirteen and fourteen of the errors assigned may also be
classed together without inconvenience.'
In the first of the two the complaint is that the judge remarked to the jury that, unless a record be kept of the manufactured goods, it is impossible for the manufacturer to comply
with the requirements of law in respect to his returns. Such
manufacturers are required by law to keep books; and if they
fail to do that, and keep no record of their daily transactions,
the expression of the judge is scarcely too strong, and was not
one calculated to mislead the jury.
Quantities of granulated tobacco entered in the order-books

Oct. 1877.]

LILTENTHAL'S TOBACCO V. UNITED STATES.

271

were not in the tax-books, so called, and large quantities entered
in the tax-books could not be idfentified in the order-books, which
a witness, when asked to explain the transaction, said it was
part of a large mass taken downstairs into the retail department: and the complaint is that the judge remarked that it
was an illegal mode of doing business, but such a remark
can hardly be regarded as the subject of error when considered in connection with the full charge given to the jury:
nor was the remark without justification, as the tobacco had
not been returned for tax, as is admitted in the assignment of
error.
7. Nothing need be remarked in response to the fifteenth and
sixteenth assignment of errors, as the only complaint they contain is that the judgment is for the wrong party.
Suggestion was made during the argument at the bar that
the court erred in not instructing the jury that they could not
find that the property was forfeited unless the matters charged
were proved beyond a reasonable doubt; but no such exception
was taken at the trial, nor is any such complaint set forth in
the assignment of errors; nor is there any thing in the case of
Chaffee v. United States (18 Wall. 516) which conflicts in the
least with the views here expressed, as is obvious from the fact
that the two cases are radically different, the present being an
information against the property, and the former an action
against the person to recover a statutory penalty. Informations in rem against property differ widely from an action
against the person to recover a penalty imposed to punish
the offender. But they differ even more widely in the course
of the trial than in the intrinsic nature of the remedy to be
enforced.
Instructions of an entirely different character were given in
that case, as, for example, the jury were told in effect that suspicious circumstances requiring explanation, if not explained,
would supply by presumption what would be sufficient to warrant a verdict of guilty; that silence supplied, in the presumption of law, that full proof which should dispel all reasonable
doubt, - making the inference to be drawn from silence one of
law instead of fact. Palpable as those errors were, it is clear
the decision of this court is correct.

COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

[Sup. Ct.

Nor is there any thing in the case of United States v. The
Brig Bkrdett (9 Pet. 682) that is in conflict with these several
propositions. Charges of the kind contained in an information
ought to be satisfactorily proved; and it is correct to say that
if the scale of evidence hangs in doubt, the verdict should be in
favor of the claimant, which is all that was there decided.
Jurors in such a case ought to be clearly satisfied that the allegations of the information are true; and when they are so
satisfied of the truth of the charge, they may render a verdict
for the government, even though the proof falls short of what
is required in a criminal case prosecuted by indictment. Jnsurance Company v. Johnson, 11 Bush (Ky.), 593.
Judgment affirmed.

COUNTY OF MACON v. SHORES.
1 Where, in an action against a county, to recover the amount due on coupons
detached from bonds issued by it in payment of its subscription to the capital stock of a railroad company, the declaration avers that the plaintiff is
a bona fide holder of them for value before maturity, and such averment
is traversed, it is competent for him, notwithstanding the presumption of
law in his favor, to maintain the issue by direct affirmative proof.
2. It is no defence to the action that the company, which was a de facto corporation when the subscription was made, had not been organized within the
time prescribed by its charter, and that when the bonds were issued a suit
to restrain the issue of them was pending, however it may have ultimately
resulted, if the holder had no actual notice thereof, and was a purchaser of
them for value before they matured.
3. Where the holder of the coupons, by producing them on the trial, and by other
proof, shows a clear right to recover, and the matters put in evidence by the
county do not tend to defeat that right, it is not error to instruct the jury
to find for him.
4. The doings of a county court of ilssouri can be shown only by its record.
5. Sect. 14, art. 11, of the Constitution of Missouri of 1865 did not take away from
a county the authority, which had been previously conferred by statute, to
subscribe for stock in a railroad company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This was an action by John F. Shores, a citizen of New
Hampshire, against the county of Macon, in the State of Mis-

