554

RAILWAY CO. V. SinES.

[Sup.

at.

the act of 1823 was repealed by the act of July 18, 1866, we have ruled in United
States v. Clafli (supra, p. 546). So far as those counts extend, therefore, the
demurrer to the declaration was properly sustained.
The counts 2, 4, 6, and 8 are based upon the fourth section of the act of 1866,
which, as we have seen in the case mentioned, contemplated only a criminal proceeding, and not a civil suit, as this is. Those counts, therefore, have no foundation. The remaining counts, Nos. 10, 12, and 14, are based upon sect. 3082 of the
Revised Statutes, which is but a re-enactment of the act of 1866. It was, therefore,
correct that the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer to the entire declaration.
Judgment affiratd.

RAnWAY COmPANr

v. SAYLES.

1. A party who invents a new machine never used before, and procures letterspatent therefor, acquires a monopoly as against all merely formal variations thereof; but if the advance towards the thing desired is gradual, and
proceeds step by step, so that no one can claim the complete thing, each
inventor is entitled only to his own specific form of device.
2. Double brakes, operating upon the two trucks of a railroad car at the same
time, by a single force, through the medium of connecting rods, had been
publicly used before Thompson and Bachelder invented the Tanner brake.
Only the specific improvement which they made could, therefore, be cov.
ered by the letters-patent for that brake. The latter were not infringed by
the Stevens brake, for which letters-patent No. 8552 were issued Nov. 25,
1851, though it was invented after the Tanner brake, inasmuch as it is
another and different specific form of brake. The parties are entitled to
the specific improvement they respectively invented, provided the later does
not include the earlier.
8. Though the double brakes used before the Tanner brake was invented may
have been much less perfect than it, and may have been superseded by it
and by other improved forms of brake, nevertheless, they were actually
used, and to some good purpose. Their construction and use, though with
limited success, were sufficient to contravene the pretension of Thompson
and Bachelder that they were the pioneers in this department of invention.
4. The original application for a patent made by Thompson and Bachelder was
filed in the Patent Office in June, 1847. Having been rejected, it remained
there unaltered until 1852, when it was considerably amended, and letterspatent No. 9109 were, July 6, 1852, granted thereon to Tanner, as assignee.
Held, that no material alterations introduced by such amendments could
avail as against parties who had introduced other brakes prior thereto.
5. The original application for letters-patent (with its accompanying drawings
and model), filed by an inventor, should possess great weight in showing
what his invention really was, especially where it remains unchanged for
a considerable period, and is afterward amended so as to have a broader
scope. Amendments embracing any material variation from the original

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY CO. V. SAYLES.

application- any thing new, not comprised in that- cannot be sustained
on the original application, and should not be allowed; otherwise, great
injustice might be done to others who may have invented or used the same
things in the mean time.
6. The la does not permit enlargements of an original specification any more
than it does where letters-patent already granted are reissued. It regards
with jealousy and disfavor any attempt to enlarge the scope of an application once filed, or of letters-patent once granted, the effect of which would
be to enable the patentee to appropriate other inventions made prior to
such alteration, or improvements which have gone into public use.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Argued by Mr. George Payson for the appellant.
Contra,by 31r. Albert f. Walker and Vr. S. D. Cozzens, the
former on the question as to validity and accounting, and the
latter on the question of infringement.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced in the Circuit Court in December,
1861, by bill in equity filed by Thomas Sayles, the appellee,
on letters-patent No. 9109, for an improvement in railroadcar brakes, issued on the sixth day of July, 1852, to Henry
Tanner, as assignee of Lafayette F. Thompson and Asahel G.
Bachelder. The bill charged that the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, from the 1st of June, 1859, to the
time of filing the bill, infringed, and was still infringng, the
said patent, of which the complainant had become the owner,
and prayed for an injunction and an account of profits received
by the defendant from the use of the invention patented.
The defendant answered, setting up prior invention and use
by others of the improvement claimed, and denying infringement.
After proofs taken, a decree was rendered for the complainant in February, 1865, and a reference ordered. This decree
was afterwards opened, and the defendant was allowed to introduce newly discovered evidence. A decree was again rendered
for the complainant in July, 1871, and reference again ordered.
The master reported profits received by the defendant, for the
period of five years, from June 2, 1859, to June 2, 1864, to the

RAILWAY CO. V. SAYLES.

[Sup. Or.

amount of $63,688.40, being $41,280 for saving in wages of
brakemen, and $22,358.40 for saving in car-wheels. A decree
was rendered for the whole amount in December, 1873; but
on a further rehearing in September, 1875, the item for saving
on car-wheels was apparently thrown out, and the decree was
reduced to the sum of $47,725. From this decree the present
appeal is taken. The counsel for the appellee now concedes
that, in the light of our decision in Mlowry v. IVhitney, 14 Wall.
620, the principle adopted by the master was not correct,
and consents that the decree be further reduced to the sum of
$24,768, with interest from the date of the report.
The evidence in the case is very voluminous, especially in
reference to the question of priority of invention, and would
be well calculated to present questions of much embarrassment
and difficulty for our determination, if we felt obliged to pass
upon the validity of the patent. But as we are satisfied that
the Stevens brake used by the defendant is not an infringement
of the plaintiff's patent, we are relieved from that unpleasant
and difficult duty, involving the weight of evidence given by
witnesses speaking to facts and occurrences long past, and often
in direct conflict with each other.
At the time when the complainant alleges that Thompson
and Bachelder completed the invention for which the letterspatent on which the suit is brought were granted, namely, in
1846 and 1847, double trucks under railroad cars had come
into general use in the country, and it was a desideratum to
have a brake, or system of brakes, which could be operated
from either end of the car, upon the wheels of both trucks;
and a number of inventors were in the field, contriving and
testing their various devices. Like almost all other inventions,
that of double brakes came when, in the progress of mechanical
improvement, it was needed; and being sought by many
minds, it is not wonderful that it was developed in different
and independent forms, all original, and yet all bearing a somewhat general resemblance to each other. In such cases, if one
inventor precedes all the rest, and strikes out something which
includes and underlies all that they produce, he acquires a
monopoly, and subjects them to tribute. But if the advance
towards the thing desired is gradual, and proceeds step by step,

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY

CO. V. SAYLES.

so that no one can claim the complete whole, then each is entitled only to the specific form of device which he produces,
and every other inventor is entitled to his own specific form, so
long as it differs from those of his competitors, and does not
include theirs. These general principles are so obvious, that
'Ney need no argument or illustration to support them. We'
.hink they are specially applicable to the case before us.
The patent sued on was granted on the sixth day of July,
1852. It was not the first patent granted for double car-brakes.
A patent for such a brake had been granted to one Charles B.
Turner, on the 14th of November, 1848; another to Nehemiah
Hodge, Oct. 2, 1849; and a third to Francis A. Stevens, Nov.
25, 1851; and double-acting brakes had been constructed by
other persons before any of these patents were issued. The
patent granted to Tanner antedates the other patents referred
to, by reason of its being issued upon an application for a patent
made by Thompson and Bachelder, on the 29th of June, 1847.
It is alleged by the complainant that Thompson and Bachelder
completed their invention as early as the fall of 1846, and made
a model of it in January, 1847, a copy of which is put in the case.
The application filed by them in the Patent Office in June,
1847, is the first authentic evidence, of a public character, of
what their invention was. A copy of this application and of the
drawings and model by which it was accompanied have been
exhibited in evidence, and necessarily constitute an important
feature of the case. Being regarded as defective and insufficient by the Patent Office, no patent was granted at the time,
and the application lay dormant and without alteration for the
space of five years; when, being purchased by Tanner, and
being considerably modified and changed, the letters-patent now
in question were issued to him as assignee of Thompson and
Bachelder. It is obvious that the original exhibit of the invention made by them, and remaining so long in the Patent Office
unchanged, should possess great weight as to what their invention really was, and what they claimed it to be.
Of course their object was to connect the brakes of the two
trucks together in such a manner as to make them operate
together by the application of force at either end of the car.
This force they proposed to apply either by hand at the wind-

RAILWAY Co. v. SAYLES.

[Sup. Ct.

lass on the platform, or by the bumpers when the train was
slowed and the cars came together. The latter seems to have
been their favorite plan, and to effect it was one of the principal
objects of their improvement.
The system of brakes attached to each truck was not ma-terially changed by them. An upright lever in the centre of
the truck was so connected with the brakes on both pair of
wheels as to draw them tightly to the wheels when its upper
extremity was forced inward towards the centre of the car.
To this upper extremity of the lever the external force was
applied when the brakes were to be put on. The inner end of
the bumper being attached thereto, produced the desired effect
when the bumper was pushed in by the adjoining car. The
same effect was produced by winding up the windlass by hand,
by means of a chain and pulley working from a point inside of
the lever, that is, nearer to the centre of the car.
The next point was to communicate this movement of the
brakes in one truck to those of the other, by some device that
would cause the upper extremity of the lever, in the latter, to
be drawn inward, towards the centre of the car, at the same
time that the lever on the first truck was forced inward; a simple rod connecting them together would not do this, but it
would have the contrary effect. The upper extremities of the
two levers must be so connected that, upon the application of
force, they would approach each other, each being forced inwardly towards the centre of the car. To effect this, Thompson
and Bachelder proposed a device constructed substantially as
follows: Under the centre of the car body they attached thereto,
by a pivot, a vibrating horizontal lever, situated midway between
the trucks, and arranged crosswise of the car. To the outer
ends of this lever were attached connecting rods, one of which
extended to and connected with the truck lever on one of the
trucks; and the other extended to and connected with the
truck lever on the other truck. By this arrangement, when
one of the truck levers was forced inward, towards the centre
of the car, it would push back the connecting rod attached to
it, and cause the vibrating lever to revolve on its pivot, and
thus draw the other connecting rod towards the centre from
the other direction, and force the truck lever on the other truck

Oct. 1878.]

. RAILWAY CO. V. SAYLES.

inward at the same time. Thus, when the windlass was wound
up at either end of the car, it had the effect of operating the
brakes on both trucks, by pushing one connecting rod at the
same time that it worked the truck lever, and simultaneously
pulling the other connecting rod. The bumpers produced the
same effect by having gains cut into their sides for receiving
the upper arms of the truck levers, and thereby forcing them
inward when driven inward themselves. A long iron rod extended the whole length of the car, which was provided with a
device for forcing the truck levers out of the gains in the bumpers when it was desired to ease the brakes.
Such, substantially, was Thompson and Bachelder's brake,
according to the description thereof deposited and left by them
in the Patent Office. In the new application, filed in their
name by Tanner in 1852, the bumper arrangement was left out
entirely, and, as before stated, considerable modifications were
introduced. The connecting rods were attached to the vibrating
lever nearer to its pivot, and two additional rods were applied to
the outer ends of this lever, extending respectively to the two
windlasses at either end of the car, being used for the purpose
of working the lever; and the parts were so arranged as to
supply the power by drawing or pulling both of the connecting
rods, instead of pushing one and pulling the other.
Now, in 1847, when Thompson and Bachelder filed their
application for a patent, and in 1846, when it is said they completed their invention, double brakes were already in existence,
formed as theirs was (though not in the same manner), by connecting together the movements of the two systems of truck
brakes, so that one brakeman, at either end of a car, could apply
the brakes to both trucks at the same time.
Without noticing those inventions, the dates of which are
disputed, it is sufficient to refer to two instances in point, the
existence of which before 1846 cannot be seriously controverted.
We refer to those known as the Springfield brake and the Millholland brake. These brakes may not have been, and were
not, so perfect as that of Thompson and Bachelder, and others
constructed at a later period; but they were used, and used
successfully; sufficiently so, at least, to have sustained patents
for the inventions, had patents been applied for.

RAILWAY CO. V. SAYLES.

[Sup. Ct.

The Springfield brake was made by one Harris, in 1842 or
1843, and placed on a long platform-car for carrying freight
crates on the Western Railroad of Massachusetts. Each truck
was provided with two levers, one to each of the brakes; and
these levers were connected together by a rod which caused
them both to be operated at the same time by the windlass
which was connected by a short chain to the nearest one. A
long rod connected one of the levers of the other truck to the
same windlass by means of another chain, so that when the
windlass was worked it wound up both chains, and operated
the brakes on both trucks simultaneously. A like arrangement was connected with the windlass at the other end of the
car. Each windlass could thus be made to operate the brakes of
both trucks.
This brake was used, as we gather from the evidence, for a
year or two, until the car was broken up. It was undoubtedly
attended with some inconveniences in its operation, especially
in going around sharp curves; but this did not prevent it from
being used; and on a straight track, or on a track having only
slight curves, it operated very satisfactorily. In 1856 and 1857,
when some difficulty arose about the right to use another brake,
the employment of this Springfield brake was resumed for more
than a year on the passenger cars of the same railroad, with
only the slight and obvious modification of attaching the long
connecting rod to a lever in each of the trucks, instead of
attaching it to the windlass at one end of the car, and to a
lever in the truck at the other end.
It is useless to argue that this brake was an imperfect one, or
that it worked far less satisfactorily than the Tanner or other
brakes. It did work; apd under favorable circumstances worked
as well as the most improved form of brakes.
The same brake, with only a single windlass, was applied to
tenders (which require and admit of only one windlass) as
early as 1841, and continued to be thus used to the time of this
litigation.
The Millholland brake approached much nearer in its mode
of operation to the Tanner brake than did the Springfield.
According to the testimony, it was placed on a passenger car of
the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad in or about the year

Oct. :1878.]

RAILWAY (0. V. SAYLES.

1843, and was continued in use for a considerable period, - one
uitness says, a year or eighteen months. It was taken off because the brakemen -were opposed to it, inasmuch as it had to
be worked by hand by means of a windlass, whilst they were
used to brakes that were operated by the foot. Whilst used,
however, it worked with entire success. It is thus described by
the inventor, James Millholland, in his testimony. He says:
"It broke upon all the eight wheels from either end of the car;
the brakes were operated by means of a drum placed under the
car, about the centre; there were connections running from this
drum to the levers on each truck, and also from the drum to the
windlasses of the car." He then describes the manner in which
the connecting rods were attached to the truck lever, and their
mode of operation. It is apparent from this description that
the drum performed almost precisely the same office which is
performed by the vibrating lever in the Tanner brake, operating, by means of the connecting rods, upon the brakes in nearly
the same manner.
In 1846, Millholland applied a double brake somewhat like
the last named to car tenders, using a rock shaft with an arm on
it instead of the drum as a means of connecting the brakes to
the two trucks. This brake was continued in use for many years.
The subsequent invention of double brakes of improved and
better forms superseded these early brakes, it is true; so that,
excepting the modified forms in which they were applied to
tenders, and excepting the temporary resuscitation of the
Springfield brake in 1856, and again in 1871, they went entirely out of use. But their construction and use, though
with limited success, are sufficient to show that Thompson and
Bachelder were not the pioneers in this field of improvement,
and that they were not the originators of the double brake,
nor of the use of rods, chains, and similar appliances for connecting the brake systems -of two trucks under a car. They
invented a particular apparatus for doing the, desired work;
and they can only claim their particular apparatus, or that
which is substantially the same.
This brings us to the question whether the apparatus used
by the defendant, and known as the Stevens brake, for which
letters-patent No. 8552 were issued to him Nov. 25, 1851, is subVOL.

Vw1.

36

RAILWAY Co. v. SAYLES.

[Sup. Ok

stantially the same as Thompson and Bachelder's, or whether
it contains in it any thing substantially the same.
Now, the Stevens brake has no vibrating lever between the
trucks, as the Tanner brake has, for the purpose of reversing
the motion communicated from one truck system to the other
and causing the truck levers to move in opposite directions,
that is, towards each other when the brakes are put on, and
away from each other when the brakes are relieved. This is
a marked feature in the Tanner brake, and one on which stress
is laid in the original application. The parts particularly
pointed out by Thompson and Bachelder as their improvements, exclusive of those connected with the bumpers, are
only these three; namely, the vibrating lever, the two rods connected therewith, and their connection with the truck levers.
They speak of their improvement as "an improvement upon
the car brake now in general use," expressly disclaiming its
original invention. This language is somewhat vague; but it
sufficiently indicates that they regarded their improvement as
consisting in their particular apparatus for effecting the desired
result. The claim of the patent as finally issued to Tanner is
only for so combining the brakes of the two trucks by means
of the vibrating lever, or its equivalent, or mechanism essentially as specified (and no other is specified), as to enable the
brakeman operating the windlass at either end of the car to
simultaneously apply the brakes of both trucks.
Now, the apparatus for effecting the same purpose in the
Stevens brake is essentially different from this. As before
stated, it has no central vibrating lever at all, and, as we think,
no equivalent of it. It connects the brakes of the two trucks
by a single straight rod, extending from the truck lever connected with the outside brake of one truck to the lever connected with the outside brake of the other truck. This outside
lever in each truck is connected, by "a rod running across and
under the axles of the truck, with a similar lever attached to
the inner brake of the same truck; and that again is connected
with the windlass by another rod running back over the axles
of the truck; thus establishing a direct and continuous connection, from one windlass to the other, between all the brakes
in both trucks, so that when either windlass is wound up (the

Oct. 1878.]

RAILWAY CO. v. SAYLES.

other being held by a ratchet), it winds up and tightens the
whole system of brakes on both trucks. In Stevens's arrangement, the separate trucks have two levers, it is true, -one.
attached to each brake; and it is contended by the complainant's counsel that one of these levers on each truck is equivalent to one-half of the vibrating lever in the Tanner brake.
But this supposed equivalency is, in our judgment, too far
fetched and imaginary. The levers referred to are no ways
different, in form or mode of operation, from ordinary brake
levers, and the use of two levers on a truck was not new, having
been employed in much the same way in the Springfield brake.
They belong to the trucks to which they are respectively attached, having no pivotal or fulcral connection with the body
of the car, as Tanner's vibrating lever has. In a word, the
construction and mode of operation of the Stevens brake are
altogether so different from that of Thompson and Bachelder's,
or Tanner's, that, considering the state of the art at the time
when the latter was produced, and the necessary limits by
which the Tanner patent must be circumscribed, we think that
the two are to be regarded as independent inventions; each
being limited and confined to the particular contrivance which
constitutes its peculiarity.
Having come to this conclusion, it is unnecessary to consider
the other questions in the cause.
It will be observed that we have given particular attention
to the original application, drawings, and models filed in the
Patent Office by Thompson and Bachelder. We have deemed
it proper to do this, because, if the amended application and
model, filed by Tanner five years ]ater, embodied any material
addition to or variance from the original, - any thing new
that was not comprised in that, - such addition or variance
cannot be sustained on the original application. The law does
not permit such enlargements of an original specification, which
would interfere with other inventors who have entered the
field in the mean time, any more than it does in the case of reissues of patents previously granted. Courts should regard
with jealousy and disfavor any attempts to enlarge the scope
of an application once filed, or of a patent once granted, the
effect of which would be to enable the patentee to appropriate

GRAY

v.

BLANCHARD.

[Sup. Ot.

other inventions made prior to such alteration, or to appropriate that which has, in the mean time, gone into public use.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to enter a decree dismissing
the bill of complaint; and it is
So ordered.

GRAY v. BLANCHAID.
A writ of error sued out upon a judgment on a money demand will be dismissed
where it affirmatively appears from the record, taken as a whole, that the
amount actually in dispute is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction.

MoTIoN to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Michigan.
Mr. . J. Smiley, for the defendants in error, in support of
the motion.
Hr. J. W. Stone, contra.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MR. ClmF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error sued out by the defendant below,
when the judgment against him upon a money demand was for
only $1,118.71. Primafacie this is the measure of our jurisdiction in favor of the present plaintiff in error; but he still
thinks we must retain the cause, as the record shows that,
having pleaded the general issue, he gave notice of set-off,
claiming $10,000. It is true that such notice was given, but
it is shown affirmatively by the record that the only dispute
upon the trial under the notice was as to a single item, of the
amount of $446. In short, the bill of exceptions shows distinctly that the only controversy between the parties was in
respect to a claim by the plaintiff below of about $2,000, and
by the defendant (plaintiff in error) as to this item of set-off.
In his application for the removal of the cause from the State
court to the Circuit Court, the plaintiff in error made this
statement, to wit: "The matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive

