FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. Ct.

account for the funds which came into his hands as collector,
and within the scope of his official duties in that office, and
his failure to perform his duty in respect to such funds, and
not from his failure to account for funds received from the
treasury for the extra-judicial purposes, and his failure to perform his duty in respect to such funds." This was an unqualified direction, not dependent upon what the jury might believe
to be proved by the evidence. It was, therefore, more than
the defendant asked.
The case requires nothing further. The plaintiff has recovered a judgment for the sum which the principal obligor in
the bond admitted to be due from him as collector. The judgment includes nothing except an unpaid balance of duties
collected, and we discover no error in the trial.
Judgment affirmed.

FoRD v. SURGET.
1. The court reaffirms the doctrine in Williams v. BruTffy (96 U. S. 176), that an
enactment of the Confederate States, enforced as a law of one of the States
composing that confederation, is a statute of such State, within the meaning
of the act regulating the appellate jurisdiction of this court over the judgments and decrees of the State courts.
2. A., a resident of Adams County, Mississippi, whose cotton was there burnt by
B., in May, 1862, brought an action for its value against the latter, who set
up as a defence that that State, whereof he was at that date a resident, was
then in subjection to and under the control of the "Confederate States;"
that an act of their congress, approved March 6, 1862, declared that it was
the duty of all military commanders in their service to destroy all cotton
whenever, in their judgment, the same should be about to fall into the hands
of the United States; that, in obedience to that act, the commander of their
forces in Mississippi issued an order, directed to his subordinate officers in
that State, to burn all cotton along, the Iississippi River likely to fall into
the hands of the forces of the United States; that the provost-marshal of
that county was charged with executing within it that order; that A.'s
cotton was likely to fall into the hands of the United States; that the
provost-marshal ordered and required B. to burn it; and that B. did burn
it, in obedience to the said act and the orders of that commander and the
provost-marshal. ield, 1. That the said act, as a measure of legislation, can
have no force in any court recognizing the Constitution of the United States
as the supreme law of the land. 2. That it did not assume to confer upon

Oct. 1878.]

FORD v. SURGET.

such commanders any greater authority than they, by the laws and usages
of war, were entitled to exercise. 3. That the orders, as an act of war,
exempted a soldier of the Confederate army who executed them from liability to the owner of the cotton, who, at the time of its destruction, was a voluntary resident within the lines of the insurrection. 4. That the plea should,
upon demurrer, be deemed as sufficiently averring the existence of such rela
tions between B. and the Confederate military authorities as entitled him to
make the same defence as if he had been such soldier.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Mississippi.
Ford filed his complaint against Surget in the Circuit Court
of Adams County, Mississippi, on the 2d of October, 1866,
alleging that he, "at his plantation in said county, on the fifth
day of May, in the year 1862, was possessed, as of his own personal property, of two hundred bales of cotton, averaging in
weight four hundred pounds per bale, and of the value of $600
per bale; and that he being so possessed, Surget, at the place
aforesaid, and upon the day and year aforesaid, did wilfully
and utterly, and against the consent and will of the plaintiff,
destroy by fire the said two hundred bales of cotton," to the
plaintiff's damage in the sum of $120,000.
The defendant pleaded not guilty, and also filed numerous
special pleas.
The defence, although presented by the special pleas in different forms, is, in substance, embraced by the following allegations, namely: That, at and before the time the alleged trespasses were
committed, the people of Mississippi, and of Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Louis
iana, Arkansas, and Texas, had confederated together for revolt
against, and within their territorial limits bad entirely subverted, the government of the United States, and in place
thereof, and within and for their territory and people, had
created a new and separate government, called the Confederate
States of America, having executive, legislative, and judicial
departments; that on the 6th of March, 1862, and from that
date until the time when the alleged trespasses were committed,
a war had been, and was then, waged and prosecuted by and between the United States and the Confederate States, and against
each other, as belligerent powers and nations; that the Confederate States, for the prosecution of the war and the mainten-

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. Ct.

ance of its powers, then and before had maintained in its
service, in the State of Mississippi, an army of which General
Beauregard was commander, whereby the territory, property,
and inhabitants of that State were held in subjection to and
under the control of the Confederate States; that on the 6th
of March, 1862, and by an act on that day approved and promulgated by the Confederate congress, it was declared to be
the duty of all military commanders in the service of the Confederate States to destroy all cotton, tobacco, and other prop,erty that might be useful to the forces of the United States,
whenever, in their judgment, the same should be about to fall
into their hands; that afterwards, on the 2d of May, 1862,
General Beauregard, commanding the Confederate forces, in
obedience to that act, made and issued a general order, directed
to officers under his command in the State of Mississippi and
in the service of the Confederate States, to burn all cotton
along the Mississippi River likely to fall into the hands of the
forces of the United States; that before and at the date last
mentioned, and afterwards, until the time the supposed trespasses were committed, Alexander K. Farrar was acting as
provost-marshal of the county of Adams, charged with the
duty, among others, of executing, within that county, the orders
of military commanders in the State of Mississippi in the service of the Confederate States, and in pursuance thereof was
commanded by the Confederate military authorities to burn all
the cotton along the bank of that river likely to fall into the
hands of the forces of the United States; that the cotton in
the complaint mentioned was near the bank of the Mississippi
within that county, and was, when burned, likely to fall into
the hands of the Federal forces: that the defendant was then
ordered and required by said Farrar, acting as provost-marshal
under the orders aforesaid, to burn certain cotton, including
the cotton in controversy; and that afterwards the defendant, in obedience to the act of the Confederate congress, and
the orders of said military commanders and provost-marshal,
did burn Ford's cotton, which is the supposed trespass complained of.
To each of the special pleas the plaintiff in error demurred,
assigning numerous causes of demurrer. The demurrers were

Oct. 1878.]

FORD v. SURGET.

overruled and replications filed. The cause, being at issue, was
tried by a jury. Verdict for the defendant. Judgment having been rendered thereon, the plaintiff removed the - cause
to the Supreme Court of the State. Upon the affirmance of
the judgment, he sued out this writ of error.
11.1.R..D.Mussey for the plaintiff in error.
This court has jurisdiction. The pleadings draw in question
the validity of a statute, set up by the defendant as a justification for his destruction of the plaintiff's property. Its validity,
although assailed, upon the ground that its provisions violated
rights, privileges, and immunities claimed by the plaintiff under
the Constitution of the United States, was sustained by the
decision of the court below.
The statute, so far as this case is concerned, derived all its
force from the effect given to it as the law of the land in Mississippi, by her solemnly expressed sanction of the acts of the
"Confederate States," of which she was a member. It must,
therefore, be regarded as her statute, within the meaning of the
provision which confers upon this court jurisdiction to re-examine upon error the judgment or decree of a State court. The
defendant's attempted justification rests upon two grounds: 1. An act of the Confederate congress.
The Confederate States were only the military representative of the rebellion, and were never recognized by the United
States as a de facto government. Their enactments are, therefore, absolute nullities, and cannot be pleaded as a justification
for the wrongful act of Surget. Hedges v. Price et al., 2 W. Va.
234; Caperton v. Martin,4 id. 38; Franklinv. F-annoy, 66 N. C.
145; The Sequestration Cases, 30 Tex. 688; Beynolds, Auditor,
v. Taylor, 43 Ala. 434; Keppel's Addm'rs v. Petersburg Railroad Co., Chase's Decisions, pp. 209, 210; United States v.
lorrison,id. 525; Btuans v. City of -Richmond, id., 551; Texas
v.White, 7 Wall. 700; Horn v. Lockhart, 17 id. 570; Sprott v.
United States, 20 id. 459.
2. Belligerent rights.
The Confederate forces had no rights other than those expressly granted them; and hence it is incumbent on the defendant to aver that the precise belligerent right set up by him as
a justification had been granted. Such averment is, wanting

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. Ot.

in his pleas. No such right as is invoked in the argument was
ever granted by the United States to the insurgents, by any
proclamation, order, or statute. The courts are concluded in
this respect by the action of the political department. They
cannot supplement or extend the grant.
This court, in passing upon such rights, has carefully excluded any enlargement of them, and confined itself to the
definition of what was actually given. See, for instance, Coppel
v. Hall, 7 Wall. 554.
Conceding that the orders in question were lawfully issued,
they can only justify the military man who executed them.
It is not averred that the defendant had any allegiance to the
Confederate forces as a volunteer or a conscript, or that there
was any vis major compelling him to obey the orders.
It is even denied, by high authority, that an act of a Confederate soldier, committed in violation of private rights as well
as of public duty, can find a justification in the order of his
commanding officer. Hedges v. Price et al., 2 W. Va. 234;
Caperton v. Martin, 4 id. 138; Franklinv. TFannoy, 66 N. C.
145.
But be this as it may, the exemption from individual and
personal liability does not extend to a citizen who, not directly
connected with the Confederate forces, committed acts of private wrong in aid of the rebellion.
Cochran & Thompson v.
Tucker, 3 Cold. (Tenn.) 186; White v. Hart, 13 Wall. 646,
651; Sprott v. United States, 20 Wall. 459, 465.
MlIr. W. T. Martin for the defendant in error.
A preliminary question of jurisdiction arises. To give jurisdiction here, it must affirmatively appear from the record not
only that a Federal question was raised, but that it was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered by the State
court could not have been given without deciding it. Brown
v. Atwell, 92 U. S. 327; Armstrong et al. v. Treasurer of
Athens County, 16 Pet. 281; Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken
Company, 1 Wall. 116; Murdoch v. City of Memphis, 20 id.
590; Railroad Company v. Maryland,id. 643; Cookroft v. Vose,
14 id. 5.
If the judgment might have proceeded upon some ground of
general law, independently of the Federal question, the juris.

Oct. 1878.]

FORD V. SURGET.

diction fails. Kl1inger v. JMfissouri, 13 Wall. 257 ; Commeroial
Bank v. _oc1kester, 15 id. 639; Rector v. Ashly, 6 id. 142; Gibson v. Choteau, 8 id. 317; Steines v. Franklin County, 14 id. 15;
Kennebeck Railroad v. Portland Bailroad,id. 23; Caperton v.
Boyer, id. 216.
A plea of not guilty, and several special pleas all ultimately
leading to issues of fact, were filed. The jury found for the
defendant, and judgment was rendered in his favor. There was
no bill of exceptions embodying the evidence or the instructions
of the court. The judgment of the Supreme Court, affirming,
in general terms, that of the subordinate court, having been, for
ought that the record discloses, rendered irrespectively of any
matter of law which might have been raised upon the special
pleas, presents nothing which justifies the conclusion that a
Federal question was actually decided. Neither the published
opinion of the Appellate Court, nor the assignment of errors
there filed, constitutes a legitimate part of the record; and,
therefore, although incorporated in it, furnishes no aid in determining whether jurisdiction exists here. Kedberry et al. v.
State of Ohio, 24 How. 413.
So far as the record is concerned, the whole case may have
turned solely upon the insufficiency of the evidence to maintain
the issue for the plaintiff upon the plea of not guilty.
If, however, this court takes jurisdiction, and considers
that the validity of the special pleas is a subject of discussion here, it is submitted that they are sufficient to bar the
action.
The property of the plaintiff alleged to have been destroyed
at his residence in Mississippi, May 5, 1862, was cotton, an
article which each belligerent regarded as possessing a special
character, and treated, even in t e hands of non-combatants,
differently from ordinary private property. " It is well
known," said this court in Mrs. Alexander's Cotton (2 Wall.
420), "that cotton has constituted the main reliance of the
rebels for means to purchase the munitions of war in Europe.
It is a matter of history, that, rather than permit it to come
into possession of the national troops, the rebel government
has everywhere devoted it, however owned, to destruction."
The regulations established by the Federal government, the

FORD

V. SURGET.

'[Sup.

Ct.

acts of its officers, - military, naval, civil, - and the decisions
of its courts, show what importance it attached during the
wvar to that species of property, and how it would be disposed
of if found in the hands of a resident of a State in rebellion.
It was treated by the respective belligerents as contraband of
war, and was by each the subject of special governmental con
trol and action, whether for its preservation, seizure, confisca
tion, or destruction.
The Confederate States, in prosecuting the war, had the
right to destroy such property found within the limits of
their military occupation, in order to prevent its seizure by
the United States. Being a de facto government, its statutes
and orders must have been necessarily obeyed by all persons
residing within those limits. By acts of obedience in submission to a power which they could not resist, such persons did
not become responsible as wrong-doers. Thorington v. Smith,
8 Wall. 1, citing United States v. Bice, 4 Wheat. 246, and Fleming v. Page, 9 How. 603.
The plaintiff insists that the statute in question was a nullity, having no binding force in law; that the Confederate
States were founded upon an usurpation of the authority and
jurisdiction of the United States, and were not recognized by
the latter even as a de facto government.
The authorities are not consistent upon the subject. While,
therefore, a decree confiscating the property of a non-resident
of the Confederate States, or sequestering a debt due to him
or to the United States, would, although rendered in accordance with a statute, be held iioperative to pass the title to
the property or to extinguish the debt, no decision can be
found affirming that, in such a case as this, the statute in
question would not afford a complete justification to the defendant.
In 1862 the war was in progress. Ford and Surget resided
i Mississippi, and were there justly regarded and treated
as having, by their own voluntary act, rendered themselves
subject to the Confederate government. They were alike in
rebellion, and in its cause risked person and property. The
rebels, as between themselves, or as between themselves and
the Confederate government, must be held to have acquiesced

Oct. 1878.]

FORD v. SURGET.

in its authority, and to have incurred no liability by rendering
obedience to its enactments.
Ford was, in judgment of law, a party to the acts of that
government. 1 Kent, 63. He might perhaps have claimed
compensation from it if the rebellion had been successful, but
certainly not from Surget, acting under its order. They, and
many thousands besides, established and recognized it as the
government of their choice. It has perished; and Ford now
asks that Surget be compelled to indemnify him for losses he
sustained in their common attempts to maintain it and displace the authority of the United States. No court will sanction such an unreasonable and unjust demand. Vattel (ed.
1855), 402, sect. 232.
But rejecting as surplusage the allegation of the pleas touching the statute, they are a valid bar. The United States,
from sound policy as well as humanity, conceded to the organized military forces of the Confederate States .the same
status and rights as if they had been engaged in warfare on
behalf of a lawfully existing and independent power. The
Federal army, in extending its sphere of successful operations, seized all cotton found within the insurgent States,
and the proceeds of the sales of that species of property were
paid into the treasury. The United States thus increased its
resources for the prosecution of the war. Wherever, there,
fore, such property was liable to capture by that army, the
Confederate commanders, in the absence of any statute of
their government on the subject, had, by the laws of war,
the same right to destroy it as if it had formed part of
their public stores or munitions of war. The history of that
eventful period renders it certain that the orders in the pleas
mentioned would, at every hazard, have been carried into execution.
It is said, however, that Surget does not aver that he was in
the military service. The allegation is that the provost-marshal was charged with the execution of those orders, and that
by him Surget "was ordered and required to burn" the cotton
for the loss of which this suit was brought. He was, therefore,
subjected to the military power, and his obedience to its commands would have been undoubtedly enforced by the same

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. Ct.

means of coercion as if he had been an enlisted soldier.
doctrine of vis major, therefore, applies.

The

Mn. JusTiCE HAI-LAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We can notice only the ground of demurrer, which suggests
that the defendant in his pleas sought to rely "for justification
of the trespass committed by him upon matters in themselves
wholly illegal, against peace and good policy, and contrary to
the Constitution of the United States, the supreme law of thu
land, and the government thereof."
In view of the decision in Williams v. Bruffzy (96 U. S.
176), but little need be said upon the preliminary question of
the jurisdiction of this court. What is there decided would
seem to be conclusive, in this case, upon the point of jurisdiction. That was an action of assumpsit for goods sold in March,
1861, by citizens of Pennsylvania to one Bruffy, a citizen of
Virginia. The administrator of Bruffy claimed that the estate
was not liable for' the debt sued for, because, pending the
recent war, his intestate paid the debt to a receiver of the Confederate States, in pursuance of a decree of a Confederate
district court in Virginia, rendered in conformity with the
provisions of an act of the Confederate congress, passed Aug.
80, 1861, sequestrating the lands, tenements, goods, chattels,
rights, and credits within the Confederate States, and of every
right and interest therein, held by or for any alien enemy after
May 21, 1861. That defence was sustained in the State courts,
and, upon error, it was insisted that this court had no jurisdiction to review the final judgment of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia. Referring to the provision in the statute
conferring appellate jurisdiction upon this court, " where is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority
exercised under, any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United
States, and the decision4is in favor of their validity;" and
referring also to the provision conferring such jurisdiction,
"where any title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under
the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or commission
held or authority exercised under, the United States, and the

Oct. 1878.]

FORD

V. SURGET.

decision is against the title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed by either party under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or authority," - this court
decided that its right to review that judgment could be maintained upon both of those clauses of the amended Judiciary
Act.
Some of the grounds of our decision are thus stated in the
opinion of the court :"The pleas aver that a confederation was formed by Virginia
and other States, called the Confederate States of America,
and that under a law of this confederation, enforced in Virginia,
the debt due to the plaintiffs was sequestrated. Now, the
Constitution of the United States prohibits any treaty, alliance,
or confederation by one State with another. The organization
whose enactment is pleaded cannot therefore be regarded in
this court as having any legal existence. It follows that whatever efficacy the enactment possessed in Virginia must be attributed to the sanction given to it by that State. Any enactment,
from whatever source originating, to which a State gives the
force of law, is a statute of the State, within the meaning of
the clause cited relating to the jurisdiction of this court ...
By the only authority which can be recognized as having any
legal existence, that is, the State of Virginia, this act of the
unauthorized confederation was enforced as a law of the commonwealth. Its validity was drawn in question on the ground
that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, and the decision of the court below was in favor of its
validity."
We do not perceive that this case, upon the question of jurisdiction, can be distinguished from -Mlliams v. Bruffy. The
defendant, Surget, justifies his burning of the cotton under
military orders, issued by a Confederate general, in pursuance
of authority conferred by an act of the Confederate congress.
If we regard substance rather than mere form or technical
accuracy, the defence rested upon that act, the validity of
which was, in terms, questioned by the several demurrers to the
special pleas. The general orders of the State court overruling
the demurrers must be accepted, in every essential sense, as an
adjudif ation in favor of the validity of an act of the Confed-

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. Ct.

erate congress, recognized and enforced as law in Mississippi,
and which act, according to the rule laid down in that case,
must be, therefore, regarded by us as a statute of that State,
within the meaning of the provisions of the act declaring the
appellate jurisdiction of this court. It results that we have
power to review the final judgment of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi.
We come now to the consideration of the merits of the case,
so far as they seem to be involved in the demurrers to the
special pleas.
The principles of public law, as applicable to civil and
international wars, have been so frequently under discussion
here, that we shall not avail ourselves of the opportunity
now afforded to renew that discussion, or enlarge upon what
has been heretofore said. The numerous decisions of this
court, beginning with the Prize Cases (2 Black, 635), and
ending with Wlliams v. Bruffy (supra) and -Dewing v. Perdicaries (96 U. S. 193), render any further declaration as
to these principles wholly unnecessary for the pr'poses of
the present case. .Without attempting to restate all the reasons assigned in adjudged cases, for the conclusions therein
announced, we assume that the following propositions are
settled by, or are plainly to be deduced from, our former
decisions: 1. The district of country declared by the constituted authorities, during the late civil war, to be in insurrection against
the government of the United States, was enemy territory,
and all the people residing within such district were, according to public law, and for all purposes connected with the
prosecution of the war, liable to be treated by the United
States, pending the war and while they remained within the
lines of the insurrection, as enemies, without reference to their
personal sentiments and dispositions.
2. There was no legislation of the Confederate congress
which this court can recognize as having any validity against
the United States, or against any of its citizens who, pending
the war, resided outside of the declared limits of the insurrectionary districts.
8. The' Confederate government is to be regarded by the

Oct. 1878.]

FORD V. SURGET.

courts as simply the military representative of the insurrection
against the authority of the United States.
4. To the Confederate army was, however, conceded, in the
interest of humanity, and to prevent the cruelties of reprisals
and retaliation, such belligerent rights as belonged under the
laws of nations to the armies of independent governments
engaged in war against each other,- that concession placing
the soldiers and officers of the rebel army, as to all matters
airectly connected with the mode of prosecuting the war, "on
the footing of those engaged in lawful war," and exempting
14them from liability for acts of legitimate warfare."
5. The cotton for the burning of which damages are claimed
hn this civil action was, as to the United States and its military
Forces engaged in the suppression of the rebellion, not only
-nemy, but hostile property, because being the product of the
-oil, and, when burned, within the boundary of the insurrectioniry district, it constituted also, as we know from the history
)f the insurrection it did, "the chief reliance of the rebels for
neans to purchase the munitions of war in Europe." Young v.
United States, supra, p. 39; Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wall.
M4. It was therefore liable, at the time, to seizure or deitraction by the Federal army, without regard to the individial sentiments of its owner, whether the purpose or effect of
uch seizure or destruction would have been to strengthen that
Lrmy, or to decrease and cripple the power and resources of the
nemy.
It would seem to be a logical deduction from these doctrines
- a deduction strengthened by considerations of humanity and
)ublic necessity- that the destruction of the same cotton,
nder the orders of the Confederate military authorities, for
he purpose of preventing it from falling into the hands of the
Pederal army, was, under the circumstances alleged in the
pecial pleas, an act of war upon the part of the military forces
f the rebellion, for which the person executing such orders
7as relieved from civil responsibility at the suit of the owner
oluntarily residing at the time within the lines of the insurection. We do not rest this conclusion upon any authority
onferred or attempted to be conferred upon Confederate conianders by the statute of the Confederate congress, recited in

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. at.

the special pleas. As an act of legislation, that statute can
have no force whatever in any court recognizing the Federal
Constitution as the supreme law of the land. It is to be regarded as nothing more than a declaration upon the part of the
military representative of the rebellion, addressed to Confederate commanders, affording evidence to those adhering to the
rebellion of the circumstances under which cotton within the
lines of the insurrection might be destroyed by military commanders in the service of the Confederate States. It, however,
assumed to confer upon such commanders no greater authority
than, consistently with the laws and usages of war, they might
have exercised, without the previous sanction of the Confederate
legislative authorities, as to any cotton within their military
lines likely to fall into the hands of the Federal forces. They
had the right, as an act of war, to destroy private property
within the lines of the insurrection, belonging to those who
-were co-operating, directly or indirectly, in the insurrection
against the government of the United States, if such destruction seemed to be required by impending necessity for the
purpose of retarding the advance or crippling the military
operations of the Federal forces. Of that mode of conducting the war, on behalf of the rebellion, no one could justly
complain who occupied the position of an enemy of the United
States, by reason of voluntary residence within the insurrectionary district.
It is insisted with much earnestness that Surget should not
be allowed to take shelter under these doctrines, since it is not
averred in the special pleas that he constituted any part of, or
held any official relations to, the military forces of the rebellion.
But such a technical, narrow construction of the special pleas
should not be allowed to prevail in a case like this. It is
distinctly alleged that the Confederate government was, at the
time of the burning of the cotton, exercising all the functions
of civil government within the State of Mississippi, and over
its property and inhabitants. It is further alleged that the
defendant was an inhabitant and citizen of Mississippi, subject
to Confederate power, authority, and jurisdiction, and that he
was ordered and required by the provost-marshal - charged by
the Confederate department commander with the execution of

Oct. 1878.]

FORD v. SUEGET.

the order to burn the cotton in Adams County likely to fall
into the possession of the Federal forces- to burn the cotton
on Ford's plantation, and that it was so burned in obedience
to the act of the Confederate congress and the orders of the
military authorities. These allegations seem to be sufficiently
comprehensive to admit evidence that the defendant acted
under duress or compulsion. Taking into consideration the
extraordinary circumstances in which the people of Mississippi
were then placed, especially the absolute authority which the
Confederate government and its military commanders were
then exercising over that portion of the territory and people
of the United States, the special pleas should be deemed, upon
demurrer, as sufficiently averring the existence of such relations
between Surget and the Confederate military authorities as
entitled him to make the same defence as any soldier, regularly
enlisted in the Confederate army, acting under like orders,
could have made. Whether Surget was, in fact, required to
execute the order of the provost-marshal does not appear. No
bill of exception was taken, and in view of the explicit averment that Surget was required by military authority to burn
Ford's cotton, we cannot assume upon demurrer that he was a
mere volunteer to aid in its destruction.
It will be observed that we have assumed, from the pleadings,
as we think we are justified in doing, that Ford resided on his
plantation in the insurrectionary district at the time his cotton
was burned. The contrary is not alleged, and was not claimed
in argument. He does not pretend that he resided in a loyal
State, or adhered to the government of the Union in its efforts
to suppress the rebellion. There is no intimation that his
residence in Mississippi was, in any degree, constrained or temporary. Whether the redress here sought could, consistently
with the provisions of the Federal Constitution, be denied to
one who, by the laws of war, is to be deemed an enemy to the
lawful government, solely by reason of residence within the insurrectionary district pending the struggle, but who, in point
of fact, was a loyal citizen, adhering to the United States, giving no voluntary aid or comfort to the rebellion, it is not necessary for us now to decide. No such question is here presented,
and we forbear any expression of opinion upon it. It will be

FORD v. SURGED.

[Sup. Ct.

time enough to consider and determine that precise question
when it arises.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the act of the Confederate
congress, recited in the special pleas, was of no validity as an
act of legislation; and while the demurrers could not have been
overruled upon the ground that such unauthorized legislation
afforded protection to Surget, nevertheless, the general facts set
out in the special pleas, considered in connection with the
belligerent rights conceded to the rebel army by the government of the United States, do constitute a defence to this
action, and upon this last ground the demurrer might have
been properly overruled.
Whether the State court, in its instructions to the jury, correctly expounded the law of the case, we cannot, upon this
review, determine. No bill of exception was taken, either as
to the evidence or the instructions, and we cannot, therefore,
determine what errors, if any, were committed in the trial of
the case. We have limited our investigation altogether to the
Federal questions raised by the demurrer to the special pleas.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD concurred in the judgment of the
court, and delivered the following opinion: Parties belligerent in a public war are independent nations;
but it is not necessary that both parties should be acknowledged as such in order to the enjoyment of belligerent rights,
as war may exist where one of the belligerents claims sovereign
rights against the other, the rule being, that when the regular
course of justice is interrupted by revolt, rebellion, or insurrection, so that the courts of justice cannot be open, civil war
exists, and hostilities may be prosecuted to the same extent as
in public war. Prize Cases, 2 Black, 666; Vattel, 425.
Two hundred bales of cotton owned by the plaintiff were
burned by the defendant, during the war of the rebellion, at
the time and place alleged in the declaration; and the plaintiff,
since the restoration of peace, instituted the present action of
trespass, in the State court, to recover damages for the loss.
Service was made, and the defendant appeared and pleaded the
general issue and several special pleas.

Oct. 1878.]

FORD V. SURGET.

Reference need only be made to two of the special pleas:
1. That the defendant burned the cotton in obedience to al
order of the Confederate States, given through the commanding
general of their army and the acting provost-marshal of the
county. 2. That the Confederate congress passed an act that
it should be the duty of all military commanders in the service
of the Confederate States to destroy all cotton, tobacco, or other
property that might be useful to the enemy (meaning the military forces of the United States), whenever in their judgment
the same should be about to fall into their hands, and that the
defendant burned the cotton in litigation in pursuance of that
act and the said orders of the said military commander and
provost-marshal.
Suffice it to say, in this connection, the plaintiff demurred
to all the special pleas; and the subordinate court overruled the
demurrers, and the parties went to trial. Hearing was had
before the jury, and they returned a verdict in favor of the
defendant. Judgment was accordingly rendered upon the verdict; and the plaintiff removed the cause to the high court of
errors and appeals of the State, where the parties were again
heard, and the State appellate court affirmed the judgment of
the court of original jurisdiction. No exceptions were filed by
the plaintiff in either of the subordinate courts, but he sued
out the present writ of error, and removed the cause into this
court.
Since the case was entered here, the plaintiff assigns the
following errors: 1. That the Supreme Court of the State erred
in sustaining the Circuit Court in overruling the demurrers of
the plaintiff to the special pleas filed by the defendant. 2.
That the Supreme Court of the State erred in refusing to grant
certain instructions to the jury, which cannot be considered, it
not appearing that there was any trial by jury in the Supreme
Court; nor would either party be benefited if it were otherwise,
as all the material questions presented for decision in the
prayers for instruction are involved in the rulings of the court
in overruling plaintiff's demurrers to - the defendant's special
pleas.
Insurrection may or may not culminate in an organized
rebellion, and it may or may not assume such aggressive
VOL.

VI.

39

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. Ct.

proportions as to be justly denominated territorial war, the
universal rule being that rebellion becomes such, if at all, by
virtue of its numbers and the organization and power of the
persons who originate it and are engaged in its prosecution.
But when the party in rebellion hold and occupy certain portions of the territory of the rightful sovereign, and have declared
their independence, cast off their allegiance, and formed a new
government, and have organized armies and raised supplies to
support it, and to oppose, and if possible to destroy, the government from which they have separated, the world and the law
of nations acknowledge them as belligerents engaged in civil
war, because they claim to be in arms to establish their liberty
and independence in order to become a sovereign State.
History furnishes many examples of war between the government de jure of a country and a government de facto of a seceding portion of the same country; and in such cases jurists hold
that other powers are entitled to remain indifferent spectators
of the contest, and to allow impartially to both belligerents the
free exercise of those rights which war gives to public enemies
against each other, such as the right of search, the right of
blockade, the right of capturing contraband of war and enemy's
property laden in neutral vessels. Twiss, Law of Nations (2d
ed.), sect. 239.
Rebellions of the kind, when they become too formidable to
be suppressed by the duly constituted civil authorities, authorize
the de jure government to blockade the ports within the territory occupied by the insurgents, and to notify the same to
foreign powers that the same will be enforced pursuant to the
law of nations. Official notice of such a proclamation makes
it the duty of foreign nations to conform to the international
rules of war in that regard; and the same jurist says that the
foreign power must at once decide upon one of three alternative courses of action. It may assist the government de jure
as an independent power, or it may assist the insurgents, in
either of which cases it becomes a party to the war; or it may
remain impartial, still continuing to treat the government de
jure as an independent power, whilst it treats the insurgents as
a community entitled to the rights of war against its adversary.
Such a concession is indispensable, as the neutral power will

Oct. 1878.]

FORD

V. SURGET.

find it impossible to recognize the character of one as a belligerent without recognizing the belligerent character of the
otheli, unless the war is confined entirely within the territory
of the contending parties and does not extend in any respect to
the highway of nations. Id. p. 500.
Belligerents engaged in war may exercise the right of blockade, and they may capture contraband of war and enemies'
property laden in neutral vessels; and if so, the contest, though
it originated in rebellion, must in the progress of events, when
it assumes such proportions as to be justly denominated civil
war, be recognized as entitling both parties to the rights of war
just as much as if it was waged between two independent
nations.
Lawful blockade can only be established by a belligerent
party, the rule being that a neutral country has a right to trade
with all other countries in time of peace, and when in time of
war the right is subjected to the conditions or restrictions
resulting from blockade, the interruption of the untrammelled
right can only be justified because the party imposing the
conditions and restrictions is invested with belligerent rights
under the law of nations. Ex parte Chavasse, In re Grazebrook,
4 De G., J. & S. 655; The Helen, Law Rep. 1 Ad. & Ec, 1 ;
DeBurgh, Marine Int. Law, 123; The Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 340.
Independent powers at war may seize and confiscate all contraband goods, without any complaint on the part of the neutral
merchant; and that right is conceded even when one of the
parties is not acknowledged as a de jure government, in case
of insurrection, where the contest has assumed such proportions as justly constitute it a civil war in the international
sense. 1 Kent, Com. (12th ed.) 92.
Other nations as well as the United States conceded belligerent rights to the Confederate States, as all admit, which
renders it unnecessary to inquire whether the concession was
rightful or premature. Matters to be taken into the account
in determining such a question, it is said, are whether the
insurgents present the existence of a de facto political organization, sufficient in character, population, and resources to
constitute it, if left to itself, a State among the nations reasonably capable of discharging the duties of such an organization.

FORD V. SURGET.

[Suip. Ct.

Due weight should be given to the then existing character of
the actual conflict, having respect to the military force on each
side and the action of the parties in conducting military operations against each other; as whether or not they conduct such
operations in accordance with the rules and customs of war,
as by the use of flags of truce, cartels, and exchange of prisoners, and whether the parent State treats captured insurgents
as prisoners of war. Inquiry may also properly arise whether
the insurgents have employed commissioned cruisers at sea,
and whether the rightful government has exercised the right
to blockade the ports of the insurgents against neutral commerce, and that of stopping and searching neutral vessels
engaged in maritime commerce. If all these elements exist,
says Dana, the condition of things is undoubtedly war, and it
may be war before they are all ripened into activity. Dana's
Wheaton, p. 34, note.
Apply those rules to the case, and it is as clear as any thing
in legal decision can be, that the Confederate States were
belligerents in the sense attached to that word by the law
of nations. During the military occupation of the territory
within the Confederate lines the sovereignty of the United
States was so far suspended, that the Federal laws could no
longer be enforced there, and the inhabitants passed under a
forced allegiance, and were bound by such laws as the usurping
government saw fit to recognize and impose. United States v.
Rice, 4 Wheat. 254.
Civil war, says Vatte], breaks the bands of society and
government, or at least suspends their operation and effect;
for it produces in the nation two independent parties, who
consider each other as enemies, and acknowledge no common
judge. Those two parties, therefore, must necessarily be considered as thenceforward constituting, at least for a time, two
separate bodies, two distinct societies. Though one of the
parties may have been to blame in breaking the unity of the
State and resisting the lawful authority, they, the two parties,
are not the less divided in fact. . . . They stand, therefore, in
precisely the same predicament as two nations who engage in
a contest, and being unable to -3ome to an agreement have recourse to arms.

Oct. 1878.]

FORD V. SURGET.

Publicists and courts of justice everywhere concur in these
sentiments, and in certain corollaries which the author deduces
from the attending circumstances; to wit, that the common laws
of war- those maxims of humanity, moderation, and justice
previously pointed out- ought to be observed by both parties
in such a conflict. Vattel, 425.
For the same reasons which render the observance of those
maxims a matter of obligation between State and State, it
becomes equally and even more necessary in the unhappy
circumstance of two incensed parties in the case of civil war.
Should the sovereign conceive that he has a right to hang up
his prisoners as rebels, the opposite party will make reprisals,
as in the example given in the note, and if he does not observe
the terms of the capitulations and all other conventions with
his enemies, they will no longer rely on his word. Should he
burn and ravage, they will follow his example, and the war
will become cruel, horrible, and every day more destructive to
the nation.
War, it is said, may exist without a formal declaration; and
the decision of the court is, that the laws of war as established
among nations have their foundation in reason, and tend to
mitigate the cruelties and miseries which such conflicts produce. Prize Cases, 2 Black, 669. Hence, say the court, the
parties to a civil war usually concede to each other belligerent
rights, for they exchange prisoners, and adopt the other courtesies and rules common to public or national war; nor is it
necessary that the independence of the revolted province or
State should be acknowledged in order to constitute it a party
belligerent in a war, according to the law of nations; and the
reason given for the rule is one of frequent illustration, which
is, that foreign nations acknowledge it as war by a declaration
of neutrality, of which two examples are .given in the opinion
of the court from which these rules are drawn. 1. When
the United States recognized the existence of civil war between Spain and her colonies. The Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 327.
2. When the Queen of England issued her proclamation of neutrality recognizing hostilities as existing between the United
States and the Confederate States.
Other nations followed with a similar declaration or by silent

FORD v. SURGET.

[Sup. Ct.

acquiescence; and in speaking of that fact this court say, that
a citizen of a foreign State, in view of such a recognition, is
estopped to deny the existence of a war, with all its consequences as regards neutrals. They cannot ask a court to affect
a technical ignorance of the existence of a war which all the
world acknowledges to be the greatest civil war of the human
race, and thus cripple the arm of the government and paralyze
its power.
Such a war usually operates as a temporary suspension of
obedience of the revolting party to the lawful sovereign; but
other nations may, until the revolution is consummated, remain
indifferent spectators of the controversy, treating the government as sovereign and the new government as a society entitled to the rights of war against its enemy, or they may espouse
the cause of the party which they believe to have justice on its
side. In the first case, the foreign State fulfils all its obligations under the law of nations, and neither party has any right
to complain, provided that it maintains an impartial neutrality;
but in the latter case, the foreign State becomes the enemy of
the party against which it declares, and the ally of the other.
Lawrence's Wheaton, 40, and notes.
Belligerent rights cannot be exercised when there are no
belligerents. Conquest of a foreign country, if permanent,
gives absolute and unlimited right; but no nation can make
such a conquest of its own territory. If a hostile power, either
from without or within a nation, takes possession and holds
absolute dominion over any portion of its territory, and the
nation by force of arms expels or overthrows the enemy and
suppresses hostilities, it acquires no new title, but merely regains the possession of what it had been temporarily deprived.
Id. 605; The Amy Warwick and Cargo, 24 Law Reporter, 494.
Cotton was the article destroyed, which was the subject
during the war of special legislation by each belligerent power.
It was treated by the army, the navy, and the civil arm of each
as possessing extraordinary qualities, and as different from other
property, even in the hands of non-combatants. It formed the
basis of the credit which the Confederates were seeking to establish abroad for the prosecution of the war. Its retention
in the Southern States and withdrawal from market, except

Oct. 1878.]

OFORD V. SURGET.

when for war purposes, were considered by the Confederate
authorities as of vital importance; for it was hoped that its
withdrawal from market would hasten a recognition of the
independence of the States in rebellion, and the raising of the
blockade which was destroying their resources and crippling
their armies.
Prior to the burning of the cotton, the Confederate congress
had directed by a legislative act, as a war measure, that cotton
and tobacco liable to fall into the hands of the Federal forces
should be destroyed; and the history of the period shows that
immense quantities of these articles were accordingly destroyed.
Regulations upon the subject were adopted by the authorities
of the United States; and those regulations, as well as the
decisions of the Federal courts, show that both the civil and
military authorities deemed it of great importance, to prevent
its accumulation in the hands of the Confederate authorities.
Capture of cotton, says Mr. Chief Justice Chase, seems to
have been justified by the peculiar character of the property
and by positive legislation. It is well known that cotton constituted the main reliance of the rebels to purchase the munitions of war in the foreign market, and it is matter of history
that rather than permit it to come into the possession of the
national troops, the rebel government everywhere devoted it,
however owned, to destruction. llrs. Alexander's Cotton,
2 Wall. 420.
Judicial history shows that, early in 1861, .the authorities of
seven States, supported by popular majorities, combined for the
overthrow of the national Union, and for the establishment
within its boundaries of a separate and independent confederation. Pursuant thereto, a governmental organization representing those States was established at Montgomery, first under
a provisional constitution, and afterwards under a constitution
intended to be permanent. In the course of a few months
four other States acceded to that confederation, and the seat
of the central authority was transferred to Richmond. It wVas
by the central authority thus organized and under its direction
that civil war was prosecuted, upon a vast scale, against the
United States for more than four years, and its power was
recognized as supreme in nearly the whole of the territory of

FORD v. SURGET.

LSup. Ct.

the States confederated in insurrection. Tkorington v. Smith,
8 Wall. 7. Difficulty, says the Chief Justice, would attend the effort to
define the precise character of such a government; but he continues to remark to the effect that the principles relating to
de facto government will conduct to a conclusion sufficiently
accurate. Examples of a de facto government are given by
him, where the usurpers expelled the regular authorities from
their customary seats and functions, and established themselves
in their places, and so became the actual government.
Such adherents to a usurping party in certain cases may not
incur the penalty of treason, as the de jure government when
restored usually respects their public acts; but the Confederate
States were never acknowledged by the United States as a
de facto government in that enlarged sense. Instead of that,
it was regarded as simply the military representative of the
insurrection, notwithstanding the duration and vast proportions of the revolt. Eleven States were engaged in it, and
the prior existing governments were overthrown and new
governments erected in their stead, in violation of the Constitution and the acts of Congress; and yet it cannot be denied
but that by the use of these unlawful and unconstitutional
means a government in fact was erected, greater in territory
than most of the European governments, complete in the
organization of all its parts, containing within its limits more
than eleven millions of people, and of sufficient resources in
men and money to carry on a civil war of unexampled dimensions from the period of its commencement to its final termination, during all of which time many belligerent rights were
conceded to it by the United States; such as the treatment
of captives both on land and sea as prisoners of war, the
exchange of prisoners as in international war, their vessels
captured recognized as prizes of war and dealt with accordingly, their property seized on land referred to the judicial
tribunals for adjudication, their ports blockaded and the
blockade maintained by a suitable force, and notified to neutral powers the same as in open and public war. Mauran v.
Insurance Company, 6 Wall. 1.
Governments de facto are described by Mr Chief Justice

Oct. 1878.]

FORD V. SURGET.

Chase as divided into classes; and, after having given a description of two of the classes, he remarks that there is another,
called by publicists a de facto government, but which might
perhaps be more aptly denominated a government of paramount
force. Its distinguishing characteristics as given by that magistrate are as follows: 1. That while it exists it must necessarily be obeyed, in civil matters, by private citizens, who, by
acts of obedience rendered in submission to such force, do not
become responsible as wrong-doers for those acts, though the
acts are not warranted by the rightful government. Actual
governments of this sort are established over districts differing
greatly in extent and conditions. They are usually administered directly by military authority, but they may be administered also by civil authority, supported more or less directly
by military force. 2. Historical examples are then given of
that sort of de facto government; to wit, the temporary government at Castine during the war of 1812, and the temporary
United
government at Tampico during the Mexican war.
,States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 2.53; Fleming v. Page, 9 How. 615;
The Nuestra Senora, 4 Wheat. 502.
Those were cases where regular enemy governments acquired
the temporary possession of territory during war with the
country of which the territory so possessed was a part; and
this court adverted to that difference in the case under consideration, but decided unanimously that the government of the
insurgent States must be classed among the governments of
which those are examples. Among the reasons assigned in
support of the conclusion were the following: 1. That rights
and obligations of belligerence were conceded to it in its military character very soon after the war began, from motives of
humanity and expediency. 2. That the whole territory controlled by it was thereafter held to be enemies' territory, and
the inhabitants of the territory were held, in most respects, as
enemies; and, as a final conclusion, the court decided that to the
extent of the actual supremacy maintained, however unlawfully
acquired, the power of the insurgent government cannot be
questioned. Thorington v. Smith, 8 Wall. 11; Halleck, Int.
Law, c. 3, sect. 21, p. 74; United States v. Klintocl, 3 Wheat.
150.

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. at.

Attempt was made early in the war of the rebellion to maintain the theory that the officers and seamen of the Confederate
cruisers were pirates, and not entitled to belligerent rights in
case of capture. Ships and cargoes at sea were destroyed by
such cruisers, and the owners, holding policies of insurance,
brought suits to recover for the loss. Payment in certain
cases was refused, the defence being that the policies did not
cover the loss where the capture was by pirates. Such a case
was presented to the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, but the
court decided that the persons who seized and burned the ship
were not to be regarded as pirates, within the ordinary signification of that word as used in the law of nations, or as
commonly understood and applied in maritime contracts and
adventures; that they were not common robbers and plunderers on the high seas. The court admitted that the acts of
the cruisers were unlawful, and that they could not be justified
in the courts of justice, but it proceeded to state that the
proofs offered showed that they acted under a semblance of
authority which took their case out of that class which can
be properly termed ordinary piracy; that the proofs offered
showed that they sailed under a letter of marque issued by a
government de facto, claiming to exercise sovereign powers, and
to be authorized to clothe their officers and agents with the
rights of belligerents and to send out armed cruisers for the
purpose of taking enemy's vessels jure belli.
Nor is that all. It was also offered to be proved that at the
time of the loss the de facto government had proceeded to raise
armies and put them into the field, by which an actually existing state of war between it and the United States was created,
which had led two of the leading nations of Europe to recognize the persons who had thus conspired together against the
authority of the United States as exercising the rights and
entitled to the privileges of a belligerent power. Such a
seizure, under such circumstances, by an armed cruiser of such
de facto government, the court held was a capture within the
meaning of the policy, and that the insurers were not liable for
the loss. Dole and Another v. Merchants' M1futual Marine Insurance Co., 6 Allen (Mass.), 373; Planters' Bank v. Union
.Bank, 16 Wall. 495.

Oct. 1878.]

FORD V.

SURGET.

Two cases of a similar character were pending at the same
time in the Circuit Court of the United States for that district,
both of which were decided in favor of the insurers upon the
same ground. In the first case, the facts were agreed between
the parties, as will be seen by the report of the case. Dole et
al. v. New England Mutual Marine Insurance Co., 2 Cliff. 894.
Both judges sat in the case, and their united opinion is fully
reported. They decided that, where a ship was taken and
burned by the commander of a rebel privateer during the late
rebellion, the capture was not a taking by pirates or assailing
thieves, inasmuch as it appeared that the policy was executed
before the rebellion broke out, and that the commander acted
under a commission in due form issued by the government of
the rebellious States, and it appears that both parties acquiesced
in the decision of the court.
Nor could they well do otherwise, as the agreed statement
showed that the rebel States before the loss odcurred had organized a confederacy and a government for the same, and had
established a written constitution; that such a form of government was in fact organized in all its departments, -legislative,
executive, and judicial; that they had raised and organized an
army and created a navy, elected a congress, and published a
legislative act declaring that war existed between the United
States and the Confederate States, and providing measures for
its vigorous prosecution; that they were carrying on hostilities
at the time the loss occurred against -the United States by land
and sea, and were in the exercise of all the functions of government over all the territory within their actual military
limits.
Pressed with those facts, the plaintiff abandoned the further
prosecution of the claim in the first suit, and sued out a writ
of error in the second, which was subsequently heard and decided in this court. 31lauranv. Insurance Gompany', 6 Wall. 1.
Offers of proof in this case occupied the place of an agreed statement of facts in the other; but the Supreme Court affirmed the
judgment of the Circuit Court, holding that the Confederate
States were in the possession of many of the highest attributes
of government, sufficiently so to be'regarded as the ruling or
supreme power of the country within their military dominion,

FORD V. SURGET.

(Sup. Ct,

and that captures made by their cruisers were excepted out of
the policy by the warranty of the insured.
Questions of the same character were also presented to the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania about the same time as those
presented to the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, where the
questions were decided in the same way. Fifield v. Insurance
Company of Pennsylvania, 47 Pa. St. 166. Three opinions
were given in the case, in addition to the opinion of the court
delivered by the Chief Justice. His first effort was to show that
the cruiser was not a pirate, in which he remarked, that if she
was not a privateer she was a pirate, and that if she was a
privateer she was made so by the commission she bore, the
legal effect of which must depend upon the status of the Confederate States, in respect to which his conclusion was that any
government, however violent and wrongful in its origin, must
be considered a de facto government if it was in the full and
actual exercise of sovereignty over a territory and people large
enough for a nation; and he quotes Vattel in support of the
proposition, and finally decided that the cruiser was a privateer
and not a pirate, and that the loss was a capture within the
excepting clause of the policy, and not a loss by pirates, rovers,
or assailing thieves. Emerigon, Ins., c. 12, sects. 28, 412.
Mr. Justice Strong concurred in the judgment, and gave an
elaborate opinion, in which he stated that he could not doubt
that these revolting States, confederated as they had been,
claiming and enforcing authority as they had done, were to
be regarded as a government de facto.
Two objections to that proposition had been made at the
bar: 1. That their claim of sovereignty had been constantly
opposed; 2. That their boundaries were uncertain and nudefned,- to both of which the judge responded to the effect
that neither of the objections were satisfactory: that they were
none the less a government de facto because they had had no
interval of peaceful existence, nor because the geographical
boundaries of the district over which their power is exclusively
felt were not well defined.
Antecedent to that, the same court decided a similar case,
which was also a marine risk, in the same way. Two points
ruled by the court in that case are pertinent to the present

Oct. 1878.]

FORD V, SURGET.

investigation: 1. That the loss was covered by the policy, it
being a case of capture by armed men professing to act under
and by authority of the Confederate States. 2. That the government of the United States had so conducted the contest and
so treated the Confederate States as to make it a war in substance as essentially as it could be between foreign powers.
Monongahela Insurance Co. v. Chester, 43 Pa. St. 49; Hamilton
v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 87.
Support to that proposition, of a decisive character, is found
in the opinion of the court in the Prize Cases, in which Mr.
Justice Grier says, It is no loose, unorganized insurrection,
having no defined boundary or possession. It has a boundary
marked by lines of bayonets, and which can be crossed only by
force. South of this line is enemies' property, because it is
claimed and held in possession by an organized, hostile, and
belligerent power. Prize Cases, 2 Black, 674.
Corresponding litigation arose about the same time in other
courts, and among the number in the Supreme Court of Maine,
where the case was argued by the same eminent counsel as in
that cited from the Massachusetts reports. Dole et al. v. Herchants' M1utual Marine Insurance Co., 51 Me. 465. Somewhat
different views are expressed by the court, but it admits in
conclusion that the decision might have been placed on a difFerent ground, and proceeds to remark that war in fact existed
it the time of the loss ; that hostile forces, each representing a
le facto government, were arrayed against each other in actual
,onflict. Its existence, says the court, would not have been
more palpable or real if it had been recognized by legislative
iction, and though it was a civil war, it was not the less a caprure for that reason. 51 id. 478; Hornv. Lockhart, 17 Wall. 55.
During the late rebellion the Confederate States and the
3tates composing it, say the Supreme Court of North Carolina,
,vere to all intents and purposes governments de facto with reference to citizens who continued to reside within the Confederate lines; hence the Confederate States and the Constitution
)f the State and the acts of their congress constituted, as
o such citizens, during the rebellion, the law of the land.
[ranclin v. TFannoy et al., 66 N. C. 145; Beynolds v. Taylor,
13 Ala. 420.

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. Ct.

Where cotton was destroyed during the late war between
the Confederate States and the United States by order of the
county provost-marshal, acting in obedience to the orders of
the Confederate commanding general, the Supreme Court of
Mississippi held that the agent who obeyed these orders is not
liable in an action by the owner to recover the value of the
property, the court holding that the Confederate States had
the rights of a belligerent power, and that it is a legitimate
belligerent right to destroy whatever property is the subject of
seizure and condemnation, in order to prevent its falling into
the hands and coming to the use of the enemy. Ford v. Surget,
46 Miss. 130. Exceptional cases supporting the opposite view
may be found in the State reports; but they are not in accord
with the decisions of this court, and are in direct conflict with
the great weight of authority derived from the same source.
Without due examination, it may be supposed that support
to the opposite theory is derived from the recent decision of
this court, in which it is held that certain confiscation proceedings prosecuted under an act passed by the Confederate congress are void; but it requires no argument to show that the
remarks upon the subject in the opinion of the court were
wholly unnecessary to the decision, as the proceedings were
obviously in aid of the rebellion, the intent and purpose of the
prosecution having been to raise means to prosecute war against
the United States. Conrad v. Waples, 96 U. S. 279. Authorities to show that all such acts are void are too numerous for
citation, no matter what may have been the status of the
Confederate States.
Certain decisions of this court hold that the acts of a body
exercising an authority in an insurgent State as a legislature
must be regarded as valid or invalid, according to the subjectmatter of legislation; but the Chief Justice decided in the case
hereafter referred to that the governor, legislature, and judges
of the State of Virginia, during the war, constituted a de facto
government, giving as a reason for the conclusion that they
exercised complete control over the greater part of the State,
proceeding in all the forms of regular organized government,
and occupying the capital of the State. Evans v. City of
Richmond, Chase, Dec. 551.

Oct. 1878.]

FORD v. SURGET.

Beyond all doubt, the Confederate government at the period
of the alleged wrong was the supreme controlling power of the
territory and people within the limits of their military dominion, and it is equally certain that the citizens resident within
those limits were utterly destitute of means to resist compliance
with military orders emanating from the commanding genera],
Bspecially when given in obedience to an act of the Confederate
congress. United States v. Grossmayer, 9 Wall. 75; Sprott
v. United States, 20 id. 459.
Cotton during the war was regarded by both belligerents as
the subject of seizure. and condemnation, and as falling within
that class of property which a belligerent might destroy to
prevent its falling into the hands of the enemy and augmenting
his resources. Proof that the orders were given as alleged is
3ufficient, as that is fully admitted by the demurrer.
Unless the Confederate States may be regarded as having
constituted a de facto government for the time or as the supreme controlling power within the limits of their exclusive
military sway, then the officers and seamen of their privateers
and the officers and soldiers of their army were mere pirates
ind insurgents, and every officer, seaman, or soldier who killed
i Federal officer or soldier in battle, whether on land or the
high seas, is liable to indictment, conviction, and sentence for
bhe crime of murder, subject of course to the right to plead
imnesty or pardon, if they can make good that defence. Once
nter that domain of strife, and countless litigations of endless
luration may arise to revive old animosities and to renew and
inflame domestic discord, without any public necessity or individual advantage. Wisdom suggests caution, and the counsels
f caution forbid any such rash experiment.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, I am of the opin[on that there is no error in the record, and that the decree of
'he Supreme Court of the State should be affirmed.

