Oct. 1877.]

EMIGRANT CO. v.

COUNTY

OF WRIGHT.

389

EMIIGRANT COMPANY V. COUNTY OF WRIGHT.
The legislature of Iowa having, by an act passed Feb. 2, 1853, granted to the
counties in which the same were respectively situated the swamp and overflowed lands to which the State was entitled under the act of Congress of
Sept. 28, 1850 (9 Stat. 519), the county of Wright presented its claim to the
Department of the Interior. Having been informed by A., its agent, that the
same had been rejected, and that, under the ruling adopted, but little hope
remained of its final allowance, the county, July 9, 1862, through its board of
supervisors, entered into a contract with the American Emigrant Company
to convey to it "all the swamp and overflowed lands of said county, and
all the proceeds thereof, and claim for the same on the United States and all
other parties," the company agreeing, in payment therefor, to spend $500 in
such public improvements in the county as the board should require, to take
the lands subject to the provisions of the said act of Congress and the existing laws of Iowa, and to release the State and the county from any liability
to reclaim the lands. The contract was submitted to the vote of the county,
and eighty-nine out of the ninety votes which were cast were in favor of
affirming it. Neither the supervisors nor the voters knew the nature or the
value of what they were selling. The company was informed in regard to
both, and it withheld the information from the county officers. Subsequently,
A., who had become the agent of the company, and was then acting in its
interest, procured the reversal of the former ruling of the department, presented the renewed claim of the county, and secured an allowance of several
hundred acres of unsold lands in place, $981 in money, and scrip for about
six thousand acres in lieu of swamp lands which had been sold by the United
States. Jan. 7, 1867, the county, in fulfilment of th6 contract, conveyed to
the company, by deed, a large quantity of lands. The county, in 1870, no
improvements having been made, filed this bill, praying for the annulment
and cancellation of the contract, for a reconveyance of the lands, saving the
rights of intermediate purchasers, and for an accounting, so far as the company had sold said lands, or received money on account of swamp lands due
the county. Held, 1. That the fact that all the parties knew that they were
dealing with a trust-fund devoted by the donor to a specific purpose demanded
the utmost good faith on the part of the company. 2. That, in view of the
provision for the diversion of the fund, the gross inadequacy of the compensation, and the successful speculation at the expense of the rights of the public,
the county is entitled to the relief prayed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Air. JT A. Harvey and Air. C. C. Nourse for the appellant.
Mr. D. -D. Chase,.contra.
Mr. JUSTICE MInER delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 28th of September, 1850, Congress passed an act

EMIGRANT Co. v. COUNTi OF WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

(9 Stat. 519) granting all the swamp and overflowed lands, made
unfit thereby for cultivation, to the States i- 'which they were
situated. This grant was made to enable the states to reclaim
those lands; and a proviso to the second section declares "that
the proceeds of said lands, whether from sale or by direct
appropriation in kind, shall be applied exclusively, as far as
necessary, to the purpose of reclaiming said lands by means of
the levees and drains aforesaid." The Secretary of the Interior
was required to make out accurate lists and plats of the lands
described as aforesaid, and transmit the same to the governors
of the States; and at the request of the governors to cause
patents to be issued, which should vest the fee-simple to said
lands in the States, subject to the disposal of their respective
legislatures.
For some reason, not necessary to be inquired into now, but
which has been the source of much controversy between the
States and the Department of the Interior, and also of much
litigation between parties claiming under the grant and those
claiming adversely to it, the Secretary failed to make any such
selections and lists of swamp lands as the act contemplated,
except as he was induced to make partial and imperfect lists at
the suggestion of persons acting for the States on various occasions.
The State of Iowa, by the act of Feb. 2, 1853, granted these
lands to the counties of that State in which they might be
found, with an injunction that the lands and their proceeds
should be appropriated to reclaiming the swamp lands; and
if, when this was accomplished, any thing was left, to building
roads and bridges over the same; and, lastly, the remainder
to be used in building roads and bridges in other parts of the
county.
By subsequent legislation of the State the counties were
authorized to depart from this injunction, and to use the lands
for public buildings and internal improvements; but the assent
of the majority of the voters of the county to such purpose was
required. It also authorized the sale of all said lands to any
person or corporation by a written contract, to be in like manner submitted to the vote of the county; but such sale was
subject to the following proviso: "That no sale, contract, or

Oct. 1877.]

EMIGRANT CO. v. COUNTY OF WRIGHT.

other disposition of said swamp or overflowed lands shall be
valid, unless the person or company to whom the same are sold,
contracted, or otherwise disposed of, shall take the same, subject
to all the provisions of the act of Congress of Sept. 28, 1850,
and shall expressly release the State of Iowa and the county
in which the lands are situate from all liability for reclaiming
said lands."
On the ninth day of July, 1862, a written contract for the
sale of the swamp lands of Wright County, and all interest
therein, and of the claim of the county for indemnity against
the United States for swamp lands which had been sold by the
government, was signed by the supervisors of the county of
Wright and the American Emigrant Company, by their agent,
H. C. Crawford, and attested by the clerk and seal of Wright
County. This contract was submitted to the vote of the county,
and affirmed by a majority. It appears that ninety votes were
cast, and all of them but one were for affirming the contract.
On the seventh day of January, 1867, the county, in fulfilment of the contract, made a deed of conveyance of a large list
of lands to that company.
The case before us is a bill in chancery to set aside said contract and deed, and for an accounting, so far as the company
has sold lands or received money on account of swamp lands
due to said county. On final hearing, the court made a decree
to that effect.
The American Emigrant Company claims to be organized as
a corporation under the laws of the State of Connecticut, and
its professed object is to aid the immigration of foreigners to this
country, by settling them on farm lands in the West. It does
not appear that during the fifteen or twenty years that it has
been in existence it has done much, if any thing, in the way of
promoting immigration. But it does appear that in the State
of Iowa it has done a very large business in purchasing from
the counties their contested claims for swamp lands, under the
act of Congress and the statutes of the State to which we have
referred.
How far this company was instrumental in procuring the
legislation authorizing the counties to sell out these unascertained interests in the swamp-land grant, and to connive at a

EMIGRANT CO. V. COUNTY OF WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

diversion of the lands from the purposes of the grant, we are
not informed.
Some of the peculiar provisions of the act of 1858, passed
about the time this company was organized, by which the
counties were authorized to sell these lands, and claims for land,
to corporations, and to take from the purchaser an obligation
to hold the State and county harmless for any diversion of the
grant from its original purpose, when taken in connection with
the policy of the company as revealed in the depositions of its
officers, leave strong ground of suspicion that those who alone
have profited by the statute had something to do with its
enactment.
The present bill is based upon three principal propositions,
to wit: 1. That the contract is void on its face, because it is
not authorized by the statute, and contemplates a diversion of
the fund, in violation of the original grant. 2. That the vote
of the county affirming it is void, because of want of legal notice
of the time and place of voting. 3. Because of fraud in the
manner in which the contract was procured.
In regard to the second of these propositions, which charges
want of notice of the vote, we do not think it is established, so
far as to render the vote void.
As regards the first proposition, it is not necessary to decide
it in this case, and we do not decide that the contract is, for
that reason alone, void. But we are of opinion that any purchaser of these lands from the county, or of the claim of the
county to indemnity, must be held to know that in the hands
of the county they were impressed with an important public
trust, and that, in examining into the fairness and honesty of
such a purchase, this consideration constitutes an important
element of the decision. This is especially so when both the
county and the purchaser agree in writing that the latter shall
bear all responsibility, and shall indemnify the former for any
violation of that.trust.
In entering upon this inquiry, the first thing that strikes one
upon the face of the record is the very vague idea which the
supervisors of the county, and still more the citizens who voted
on the proposition, must have had of the value of the thing
they were selling. What lands -were swamp lands had never

Oct. 1877.]

EMIGRANT CO. V. COUNTY OF WRIGHT.

been clearly settled by the department, and how many acres
were or ever had been embraced by the grant in Wright County
was still more uncertain. It was obviously the dictate of ordinary prudence in dealing with a case like this that the citizens
of the county should know what they were selling, as well as
what they were going to get for it. It is clear they knew
neither. They were selling the chances in a controversy with
the government of the United States. A claim which would
probably be good for several hundred acres, and which resulted
in the allowance of over six thousand acres. What were they
to get for it? The sum of $500, in public improvements. The
nature and character of these improvements, the price of the
work, and the time of its completion were left unsettled.
The result is that none have been built, and the Emigrant
Company secures about six thousand acres of land of the value
of $1.25 per acre, and $981 in cash. Over $8,000 for the
vague promise of doing $500 worth of public improvements.
The very inadequacy of the consideration is enough to throw
the strongest suspicion on the fairness of the transaction.
The county of Wright, by the census of 1860, had a population of six hundred and fifty-three souls, and the vote that
was given amounted only to ninety. Of these, taking the
usual proportion, probably less than one-half had any real
interest in the county.
What a chance for the exercise of the arts of persuasion in
procuring a contract, all the advantages of which should be on
one side, but which must affect the interests of the county after
it should have become well populated.
But we are not left to surmise on this subject. This small
population was divided into seven civil townships, each one of
which had a supervisor; and these supervisors, when assembled at the county seat, constituted the governing body of the
county. When the Emigrant Company began their operations
with Wright County, they did not lay their proposition before
the board of supervisors at a regular meeting; but their agent,
a man by the name of Crawford, who signed the contract for
the company, taking with him a jug of whiskey, went round to
the house of each of these men, and thus gaining their assent
to his project, brought them together in his own wagon to the

EMIGRANT CO. v. COUNTY OF WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

county seat, on a day not provided by law, nor authorized by
any previous order or notice, and there induced them to sign
this contract. Whether a like influence attended the subsequent
voting at precincts, where the average vote was twelve to a
township, we are not informed. But there is no reason to doubt
that the arguments used with the supervisors were potent with
the voters.
It appears that for some time before this contract was made
the county had been urging her claim to swamp lands, before
the department at Washington, through Savary, who acted as
her agent. A short time before this contract was made, he
informed the authorities of the county that their claim had
been rejected, and that this rejection was accompanied by the
announcement of a rule which left but little to hope for on
the part of the county. Very shortly after this, Crawford, as
the agent of the Emigrant Company, made his appearance
in the county, and procured the contract we have mentioned.
As soon as this was done, Savary, as the agent of the Emigrant Company, by the assistance, as he says, of able lawyers,
and in the cases of other counties with which the company had
similar contracts, inaugurated proceedings to procure the reversal of the rule announced by the department. Succeeding in
this, he presented the renewed claim of Wright County, and
secured the allowance of several hundred acres still unsold in
the county, and money and scrip for six thousand acres to be
located elsewhere, in lieu of swamp lands sold by the government.
It is not a violent presumption, under all the circumstances
of this case, that when, just after Savary had made the impression on the supervisors of Wright County that their case was
hopeless, Crawford appeared in Wright County, he had some
information of a different character on which he acted, and
which was not communicated to the supervisors.
The record in this case is a voluminous one, consisting largely
of depositions of witnesses. We are not convinced that any
false representations were made by the agents or officers of the
Emigrant Company. But the impression made upon us by
the whole testimony is, that the officers and citizens of the
county were in gross ignorance of the nature and value of what

Oct. 1877.]

MARTIN V. MARKS.

they were selling; that the Emigrant Company, on the other
hand, were well informed in regard to both, and withheld this
information unfairly from the officers of the county; that the
sudden change of the relationship of Savary from an unsuccessful agent of the county to a successful agent of the company
requires an explanation which has not been satisfactorily given;
that the fact that all parties knew they were dealing with a
trust fund devoted by the donor to a specific purpose demanded
the utmost good faith on the part of the purchaser; that so
far from this, there is a provision for a diversion of the fund
to other purposes, a gross inadequacy of consideration, and
a successful speculation at the expense of the rights of the
public.
For these reasons we concur with the Circuit Court that the
contract should be rescinded, and that, saving the right of
intermediate purchasers, there should be an accounting and a
reconveyance, so far as may be.
Decree affrmed.

MR. CHI F JUSTICE WAITE and MR. JUSTI E STRONG dissented.

MARTIN v. MARKS.
1. The act of March 3, 1857 (11 Stat. 251), confirmed to the several States their
selections of swamp lands, which had then been reported to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, so far as the lands were then "vacant
and unappropriated, and not interfered with by an actual settlement" under
existing laws.
2. The selections so confirmed could not be set aside, nor could titles to any of
the land which they embraced, unless it came within the exceptions mentioned in that act, be thereafter conveyed by the United States to parties
claiming adversely to the swamp-land grant.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Air. Edward . Ingersoll and Mr. F. P. Cupjpy for the plaintiff
in error.

3ir. Thomas . -Durantand Mr. C. W. iornor,contra.

