374

COMMISSIONERS v. BANK OF COMMERCE.

[Sup. Ct

COmuISSIONERS v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
In an action on cei tain coupons originally attached to bonds issued by the county
of Pickens, South Carolina, the holder of them made as sole defendants to
his complaint certain persons whom he named "as county commissioners" of
said county. No objection was taken to the pleadings, nor any misnomer
suggested. Verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. Held, 1. That neither
the Constitution nor the statutes of that State declare the name by which
a county shall he sued. 2. That, if the action should have been brought
against the county by its corporate name, the misdescription, if objected to,
was, by the statutes of that State, amendable at the trial; but it furnishes no
ground for reversing the judgment.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
This was an action brought by the Bank of Commerce to
recover the amount of sundry coupons which were formerly
attached to bonds, purporting to be issued by the Board of
County Commissioners of the County of Pickens, South CaroERROR

lina, in aid of the Atlanta and Richmond Air-Line Railway
Company. The complaint alleges that the said coupons are
for different sums of money, depending on the size of the bonds,
and are in the form following, to wit: "$7.00. The County of Pickens, State of South Carolina, will
pay the bearer on the first day of January, 1874, seven dollars, at
Pickens Court-house, for annual interest on bond No. 113.

"H. J. ANTHONY,
"Chairman of Board of Countyj Comiissioners.

"Receivable in payment of taxes."
and that the plaintiff is the bona fide holder of them for value,
and that they, though due, have not been paid.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the bank. Several defences, interposed below, were abandoned here. The remaining
facts and the assignment of error are mentioned in the opinion
of the court.
Mr. William W. Boyce for the plaintiff in error.
The "county of Pickens" not having been sued by its corporate name, no judgment on its contracts can be rendered
against it in this suit. A corporation (unless empowered to
sue and be sued in the name of its clerk or trustee) should sue
-

Oa.1878.]

COMMISSIONERS V. BANK OF COMMERCE.

375

and be sued by the name in which it is incorporated. Brown,
Actions at Law, 115 ; 1 Saunders, Plead. and Evid. 887. The
statutes of the State do not authorize a suit for the enforcement
of a county liability to be brought against the persons who constitute the board of commissioners; and the present judgment
against them as individuals must be reversed, because there is
nothing on the record showing their personal liability. The
plaintiff below must therefore fail, as against the county, because he has not sued it; he must fail against the defendants,
because he asserts a claim for the payment of which they are
not individually bound. The words "county commissioners"
added to their names are a descriptio personarum, and do not
define or limit their liability.
The objection is not for misnomer, nor is it one of form. It
is for a defect in matter of substance, apparent on the pleadings,
for which error lies.

M1r. James -Lowndesand Mr.T -E.Earle, contra.
MRi. JusTIE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants are described in the complaint as H. J.
Anthony, Thomas R. Price, and William Smith, "commissioners of the county of Pickens," and the demand set forth
in the complaint is against the county of Pickens. A trial
upon the merits resulted in a judgment in favor of the plaintiff
for $7,182. The defences set up in the answer, and upon which
the case was tried in the Circuit Court, are abandoned; and
the defendants seek to reverse the judgment, upon the allegation that there is a misdescription of the defendants. Judgment cannot be had against the county, it is said, because thn
county is not sued; nor against the commissioners named, because the cause of action is not against them, but against the
county.
There is no foundation for this course of reasoning.
By art. 4, sect. 19, of the Constitution of South Carolina
(of 1868), it is thus provided: "The qualified electors of each county shall elect three persons
for the term of two years, who shall constitute a board of county
commissioners, which shall have jurisdiction over roads, highways,
ferries, bridges, and all matters relating to taxes, disbursements of

COMMISSIONERS v. BANK OF COMMERCE.

[Sup. Ct.

money for county purposes, and in every other ease that may be
necessary to the internal improvement and local concerns of the
respective counties: Provided,that in all cases there shall be the
right of appeal to the State courts."
By the Revised Statutes of that State, 147, the powers of
theso officers are defined at length. Among them are the
following:

-

"To examine, settle, and allow all accounts chargeable against
such county, and draw orders on the county treasurer for the same;
but the county commissioners shall not draw any order upon the
county treasurer until after the monthly return of the treasurer
shall have been made to the county commissioners of the amount
of funds collected, nor unless he has the funds in the treasury to
pay the same."
The specification of the powers and duties of these officers
extends over several pages of the statute. It may be said, in
brief, that they are charged with the management of the internal affairs of the county, and occupy substantially the place
held by boards of supervisors in many of the States.
The Constitution of the State of South Carolina (of 1868)
does not declare the several counties of the State to be incorporations. In art. 2, sect 8, entitled "Legislative Department,"
it is ordained as follows: "The judicial districts shall hereafter be designated as counties,
and the boundaries of the several counties shall remain as they are
established, except," &c. . . . "Each county shall constitute one
election district."
By art. 9, sect. 8, it is provided :
"The corporate authorities of counties, townships, school districts, citie 3, towns, and villages may be invested with power to
collect taxes for corporate purposes."
"SECT. 9. The General Assembly shall provide for the incorporation of cities and towns, and shall restrict their powers of taxation, borrowing money, contracting debts, and loaning their credit."
It is assumed by these provisions that counties are or may
be made corporations.
Accordingly, it was enacted by the legislature in the same
year (Stat. 1868, 134), as follows : -

Oct. 1878.]

COMMISSIONERS v. BANK OF COMMERCE.

877

"Each county shall be a body politic and corporate for the
following purposes: to sue and be sued, purchase and hold for
the use of the county personal estate and land lying within its own
limits, and to make necessary contracts and do necessary acts in
relation to the property and concerns of the county."
Every county of the State was expressly authorized by the
statute of Sept. 18, 1868, to make the contract out of which
the present cause of action arose, and the pleadings concede
that the county of Pickens did make it.
We do not find in the Constitution or statutes of South
Carolina any direction as to the name by which a county shall
be sued. We see no objection to the form adopted in the
present case.
But if it be conceded that this action should have been
brought against the county of Pickens, by the corporate name
of the county of Pickens, the error is simply one of a misdescription of the parties defendant, a misnomer amendable at
the trial if objected to, and to be disregarded, both at the trial
and on appeal, when such objection is not taken.
The Revised Statutes of South Carolina provide (sect. 199)
that "the court shall in every stage of the action disregard any
error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not
affect the substantial rights of the adverse party, and no judgment shall be reversed by reason of such error or defect."
By another section (196) it is provided that "the court may,
before or after judgment, in furtherance of justice and on such
terms as may be proper, amend any pleading, process, or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party or a mistake in any
other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the
case, or when the amendment does not change substantially the
claim or defence, by conforming the pleadings or proceedings
to the facts proved."
Where suit was brought against "William H. Cockle, intendant, and John R. Schwab, Joseph Herndon, Robert Wright,
and Edward Wheeler, wardens, the town council of Yorkville,
in the State of South Carolina," it was objected at the hearing
on appeal that the suit was against the parties in their individual capacity, and not as the town council of Yorkville. The

378

COMMISSIONERS v. BANK OF COMMERCE.

[Sup. Ct.

Supreme Court said, "The defendants have failed to present the
objection at the proper time and in the proper way, and can
now claim no benefit from it." MS. Case.
The statutes of the State of New York on the subject of
amendments are almost verbatim, the same as thos6 of South
Carolina above quoted.
In the case of the Bank of Havanav. Magee (20 N. Y. 355),
Charles Cook was an individual banker, transacting business
under the name of the Bank of Havanna, there being in fact
no corporation of that name. On the trial, a judgment in favor
of the Bank of Havanna was offered in evidence, which was
objected to on the ground that the plaintiff had not proved
itself to be a corporation, which was overruled. In sustaining
the ruling, the Court of Appeals, by Denio, J., said: "But I
am of the opinion that when it appeared on the trial that the
plaintiff's attorney had fallen into the mistake of stating the
name which Mr. Cook had given to his bank as the creditor of
Wickham and as the plaintiff in the suit, instead of his own
name, a plain case was presented for amendment, under sect.
173 of the Code."
The error was disregarded.
So in Th1aver v. -igkhth Avenue R. R. Co. (6 Abb. Pr. x. s.
(N. Y.) 46), the Court of Appeals, Grover, J., delivering the
opinion, cited the foregoing case with approval, and held that
where an action was brought by a married woman in her
maiden name it was a mere misnomer, and when not objected
to at the trial would be disregarded on appeal.
There being no error of which we can take notice, the
judgment must be affirmed; and it is
,So ordered.

