REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF TE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERMI, 1877.

TRoy v. EvAxs.
1. The amount of the judgment below against a defendant in an action for money
is prima facie the measure of the jurisdiction of this court in his behalf.
2. This primafacie case continues until the contrary is shown; and, if jurisdiction is invoked because of the collateral effect a judgment may have in
another action, it must appear that the judgment conclusively settles the
rights of the parties in a matter actually in dispute, the sum or value of
which exceeds $5,000, exclusive of interest and costs.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Middle District of Alabama.
This is an action commenced Oct. 31, 1872, by Evans, Gardner, & Co., against the Mayor and Councilmen of Troy, a
municipal corporation in Alabama.
The declaration alleges that the defendant, on the 19th of
February, 1869, pursuant to lawful authority, issued certain
town bonds, each for $100, payable to bearer, with interest at
eight per cent per annum from said date, in ten annual instalments, after the completion of the Mobile and Girard Railroad to said town, together with the accrued interest; that
sLxty-three of said bonds are the property of the plaintiffs;
that said road was completed to the town of Troy June 9, 1870;
and that three annual instalments of ten per cent each, amount
voL. vit.

1

TROY v. EVANS.

[Sup. Or.

ing to $830 of the principal, are due and unpaid on each of said
bonds, besides interest. The plaintiffs therefore claim $1,890,
the amount of the instalments due on said bonds, with interest on said bonds, at eight per cent per annum, from Feb. 19,
1869.
The defendant's plea sets forth that at the commencement
of the suit the plaintiffs held the bonds as security for an
existing liability or indebtedness of one Jones to them, which
was much smaller in amount than the amount of said bonds,
and which was neither paid nor extinguished by said bonds,
nor by their delivery to the plaintiffs by said Jones; that the
plaintiffs obtained said bonds from Jones, before the commencement of the suit, as security for his liability or indebtedness
to them, and held the same as such security at the commencement of the suit, and not otherwise; and that, when they so
obtained said bonds, they had notice that Jones was a citizen
of the State of Alabama, as in fact he then was, and ever since
has been.
There was a judgment for the plaintiffs, May 27, 1875, for
$83,926.96. The defendant below then sued out this writ of
error, which the defendants in error now move to dismiss, on
the ground that the amount in controversy is not sufficient to
give this court jurisdiction.
Mr. fT. A. Herbert for the defendants in error, in support of
the motion.
Mr. Samuel P. Rice and H1r. Thomas C. Jones, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The writ of error in this case was sued out by the defendants
below, upon a judgment rendered May 27, 1875, for 83,926.96.
If there were nothing more, it would be clear that we have no
jurisdiction. The bonds sued upon, however, were payable in
instalments, and amounted in the aggregate to more than
85,000, while the instalments due when the judgment was rendered were less. The plea upon which the case was tried put
in issue only the ownership of the bonds and the right of the
plaintiffs to bring the suit, the claim being that one Jones, a
citizen of Alabama, was the real owner, and that the plaintiffs

Oct. 1877.]

GLUE CO. v. UPTON.

held them only as security for a debt which he owed, less in
amount than the bonds. The amount of the debt nowhere appears in the pleadings, though it is admitted that the bonds
were held as security only.
Conceding all that is claimed in the argument opposing this
motion, to wit, that the judgment in this action will be conclusive in another by the present plaintiffs upon the same bonds
as to the liability of the defendants upon the bonds to the
extent of the debt of Jones, for which they are held, still our
jurisdiction cannot be maintained, unless it also appears that
this debt exceeds $5,000. Prima facie, the judgment against
a defendant in an action for money is the measure of our jurisdiction in his behalf. This prima facie case continues until
the contrary is shown; and, if jurisdiction is invoked because
of the collateral effect a judgment may have in another action,
it must appear that the judgment conclusively settles the rights
of the parties in a matter actually in dispute, the sum or value
of which exceeds the required amount. No issue was raised
here as to bow much was actually due the plaintiffs from Jones,
and the testimony is by no means clear upon that subject.
Certainly there is nothing in the record which concludes the
parties upon that question; and, as it rests upon the plaintiff
in error to establish our jurisdiction affirmatively before we can
proceed, the writ is
-Dismissed.

GLuE. CoMPAN-Y v. UPTON.
1 The mere change in form of a soluble article of commerce, by reducing it to
small particles so that its solution is accelerated and it is rendered more
ready for immediate use, convenient for handling, and, by its improved
appearance, more merchantable, does not make it a new article, within the
sense of the patent law.
2. To render an article new within that law, it must be more or less efficacious, or
possess new properties by a combination with other ingredients.
3. Reissued letters-patent No. 4072, granted July 12, 1870, to Thomas P. Milligan
and Thomas Higgins, assignees of Emerson Goddard, for an improvement in the manufacture of glue, - the alleged improvement consisting "of
glue comminuted to small particles of practically uniform size, as distinguished from the glue in angular flakes hitherto known," -are void foy
want of novelty.

