HOWLAND v. BLAKE.

[Sup. Ct.

HowLAND v. BLAKE.
A., to secure the payment of money borrowed from B., mortgaged land to the latter, who commenced proceedings in foreclosure, and obtained a decree under
which he purchased the land, and received a deed therefor from the proper
officer. He subsequently conveyed it to 0. Eight years after the death of
B., A. filed his bill against C., alleging a parol agreement whereby he was to
make no defence to the foreclosure; that the equity of redemption, notwithstanding the sale and the deed made pursuant thereto, should not be thereby
barred, but that B., on receiving his debt from the rents and profits of the
land, should convey it to A.; that B., desiring to be repaid at an earlier date,
C., at A.'s instance, paid the same, and took a deed from B. with a full knowledge of the agreement between the latter and A.; that C. agreed that, when
reimbursed out of the rents and profits of the land, he would convey it to A.
Held, 1. That, in order to make out his alleged agreement with B., the burden
was upon A. to produce evidence of such weight and character as would
justify a court in reforming a written instrument, which, upon the ground of
mistake, did not set forth the intention of the parties thereto. 2. That such
evidence not having been produced to show the alleged agreement, and A.'s
continuing interest in the land, his parol agreement with C. was void, under
the Statute of Frauds.

A:PPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. D. G. Hooker for the appellant,
and by Mr. John T. Fish for the appellee.
MR. JUSTIOB HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced in 1873, and the claim may be
stated thus: In 1857, Isaac Taylor loaned to Eugene Howland,
upon a mortgage, the sum of $7,000, to enable him to complete
the erection of certain buildings upon premises in the city of
Racine, the entire cost of which was about $24,000, and which
when completed produced an annual rent of $2,200.
Soon after the buildings were completed an agreement was
made between the parties, which was carried out, that the possession of the property should be surrendered to Taylor, who
should enter into possession and receive the rents, until the net
proceeds thereof should pay the principal and the interest of the
mortgage.
In 1861, while thus in possession, Taylor commenced a suit

Oct. 1878.]

HOWLAND

v.

BLAKE.

to foreclose his mortgage, claiming the sum of about $7,000
as due to him. Judgment was rendered, a sale had, and Taylor
becoming the purchaser for the sum of $9,300, a deed was executed to him by the sheriff.
It is claimed that, while this foreclosure suit was in progress,
it was agreed that Howland should make no defence, but allow
a sale to take place; that Taylor should still hold the premises
as security for the payment of the mortgage debt, and, when
the rents had been sufficient for that purpose, reconvey the
premises to Howland.
It is alleged that, under this agreement, Taylor purchased and
remained in possession until April, 1863; that about that time
he desired the payment of his money, and requested Iowland
to procure some other person to advance it; that Howland
thereupon informed Blake and Elliott of all the facts before
stated, requesting them to advance the money and take a conveyance from Taylor; that a conveyance to them from Taylor,
absolute in form, was thereupon made, but upon the agreement
that they would pay Taylor's debt, retain the premises until
the rents thereof should reimburse them, and then would reconvey the premises to Howland; that from that time until the
commencement of the present action against them they have
been in possession, receiving the rents which greatly exceeded
the mortgage debt, with interest, taxes, insurance, and repairs.
An account and a reconveyance are demanded.
An answer on oath having been waived, Blake and Elliott, the defendants, denied all the equities of the bill, and
alleged other matters in defence. Taylor died in November,
1865.
At the hearing upon the pleadings and proofs, the bill was
dismissed, upon the ground that where a mortgage had been
foreclosed by action, and the equity of redemption sold by a
decree of the court, and an absolute title given by the proper
officer to the purchaser at such sale, evidence to show that a
parol agreement was made pending the litigation, by which the
interest to be obtained under the sale should remain a mortgage interest only, was incompetent. Rowland appealed to
this court.
The appellees, in addition to this ground of defence, insist
voL. v11.
40

HOWLAND

v.

BLAIKE.

[P-up. Ct.

that the evidence does not establish the alleged agreement, and
that the complainant had no equity of redemption in the
premises after the twenty-second day of May, 1860, when his
interest in the same was sold by the sheriff of Racine County
to Daniel P. Rhodes for $1,000, in pursuance of a decree of the
Circuit Court of that county in proceedings to foreclose the lien
of Wiltsie & Hetrick for materials used in erecting the buildings on the said premises.
We do not think it necessary to pass formally upon the legal
position assumed by the Circuit Court, that parol evidence is not
admissible to impeach a title acquired at a judicial sale, nor
upon the contention that the sale to Rhodes, upon the proceeding to foreclose the lien of a material-man, terminated any
alleged interest of Howland in the property.
The case may be decided upon a principle governing a class of
cases of the same nature. Among them there are the following:
Where a written instrument is sought to be reformed upon the
ground that by mistake it does not correctly set forth the intention of the parties; or where the declaration of the mortgagor
at the time he executed the mortgage, that the equity of redemption should pass to the mortgagee; or where it is insisted
that a mortgagor, by a subsequent parol agreement, surrendered
his rights. These and the case we are considering are governed by the same principle.
In each case the burden rests upon the moving party of overcoming the strong presumption arising from the terms of a
written instrument. If the proofs are doubtful and unsatisfactory, if there is a failure to overcome this presumption by
testimony entirely plain and convincing beyond reasonable
controversy, the writing will be held to express correctly the
intention of the parties. A judgment of the court, a deliberate
deed or writing, are of too much solemnity to be brushed away
by loose and inconclusive evidence. Story, Eq. Jur., sect.
152; Kent v. Lasley, 24 Wis. 654; Harrisonv. Juneau Bank,
17 id. 340; Harter v. 6Ohristop7h, 32 id. 246; Me Clellan v. Sanford, 26 id. 595.
In this case, the evidence falls far short of affording this
satisfactory conviction. It is not necessary to say that the
complainant's claim is not made out, or that such claim is

Oct. 1878.]

HOWLAND v. BLAKE.

overthrown by the evidence of the defendants. We are all,
however, of the opinion that the presumption of the deeds is
not overcome by satisfactory and convincing proofs.
The testimony is voluminous and conflicting. It is enough
to say that the only direct evidence of an agreement by Isaac
Taylor that the foreclosure should not operate as such, but
that the transaction should continue to be a mortgage, is that
of R. W. Howland, a brother of the mortgagor. Throughout
the whole transaction he was the person conducting the business on the part of the complainant, who was an absentee. He
occupies very nearly the position of a party, and upon the
unspotted testimony of a party two of the cases above cited
adjudge that such a decree cannot be sustained.
Much also depends upon the value of the property in 1862;
and upon this point the testimony is quite conflicting, the
opinions as to its value ranging from $8,000 to $26,000. Bussell v. Southard, 12 How. 139.
The warranty title given by Isaac Taylor, the party who it
is alleged made the agreement, was not challenged until eight
years after his death, and ten years after the sale on the foreclosure. He is proven to have been not only an upright, honest
man, but skilful and astute in the transaction of his business.
His one peculiarity was that of reducing to writing his most
ordinary transactions, that there might be neither misunderstanding nor mistake.
Taylor took his mortgage of ,$7,000 in October, 1857. Soon
after the buildings were completed, he entered into possession
and received the rents. He did this, in pursuance of his
habit, by virtue of a written authority from the mortgagor.
In August, 1861, he commenced a foreclosure suit, and in June,
1862, perfected his title thereunder by a judicial sale and a
sheriff's deed.
To show that he deliberately agreed that these proceedings
should stand for nothing, and he be a mortgagee still, requires
much more conclusive evidence than is here presented.
There is, undoubtedly, evidence produced by the complainant to sustain his claim; but, after a careful perusal of it, we
are by no means satisfied that it is of the character and extent
required by the principles above laid down.

DAVIE V. BRIGGS.

[Sup. Ot.

The same is true of the agreement alleged to have been made
by the defendants, Blake and Elliott. Its existence is denied
by each of them, and it is not sufficiently proved for the purpose of this action.
This is not, however, so important. Unless the equity of
redemption of Howland was kept alive by the alleged agreement with Taylor, he had no interest which could sustain a
parol agreement by the defendants to buy the property for his
benefit, and to convey to him when required. Such an agreement is one creating by parol a trust or interest in lands, which
cannot be sustained under the Statute of Frauds. It is a naked
promise by one to buy lands in his own name, pay for them
with his own money, and hold them for the benefit of another.
It cannot be enforced in equity, and is void. Levy v. Brush,
45 N. Y. 589; Bichardson v. Johnsen, 41 Wis. 100; Payne
v. Patterson, 77 Pa. St. 134; Bander v. Snyder, 5 Barb.
(N. Y.) 63; Lathrop v. Hoyt, 7 id. 59; Story, Eq. Jur., sect.
1201 a (11th ed.).
Decree affirmed.

DAviE v. BRIGGS.
1 A person who for seven years has not been heard of by those who, had he
been alive, would naturally have heard of him, is presumed to be dead; but
the law raises no presumption as to the precise time of his death.
2. The triers of the facts may infer that he died before the expiration of the
seven years, if it appears that within that period he encountered some specific peril, or came within the range of some impending or imminent danger
which might reasonably be expected to destroy life.
3. This court adopts the construction of the Supreme Court of North Carolina
that the term "beyond the seas," where it occurs in the Statute of Limitations of that State, means "without the United States."

APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of North Carolina.
The history of this litigation is substantially as follows: The land, containing about two hundred acres, the proceeds
of which are involved in this suit was conveyed in the yeai
1829, for the consideration of $6,000, by John Teague, its then

