ME=PHIS V. BRowN.

[Sup.

t

MEMPHis v. BRowa.
A., having a decree against the city of Memphis for the payment of money,
obtained, in March, 1876, a mandamus, commanding her to levy upon all the
taxable property of the city a tax sufficient in amount to pay the decree. The
city thereupon passed an ordinance levying a special tax, in professed conformity with the writ. A., finding that such special tax did not include merchants' capital, which, under the laws of the State, was taxable for general
purposes, and that the required sum would not be raised, moved for a further
peremptory mandamus, commanding that such merchants' capital, as assessed
and returned for taxation for the year 1875, he included by the city within
the property to be taxed for the payment of his decree, in accordance with
the original writ. The court awarded the writ accordingly. Held, that the
mandamus to compel the city to levy and collect the tax for the payment of
the decree was process in execution, and that the court below rightfully
exercised control over it in deciding that its order to levy a tax upon all the
property of the city included the capital of merchants taxable under the laws
of the State for general purposes.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
This case also involves the same general facts as those in
United States v. Memphis, supra, p. 284.
On March 2, 1876, Brown filed an affidavit in the court below, that he was advised that the capital of merchants was
legally taxable for the payment of his decree, and that the
same tax should he levied and collected thereon for its payment as on other taxable property, and that the city of Memphis should be compelled by an alias writ to include that
capital for such payment, and collect the tax thereon, and pay
the same over to him, as commanded by the original writ, and
that said levy be made upon the assessment as made and returned for the year 1875. The affidavit also set forth that
theretofore only about sixty per cent of the taxes levied in the
city had been collected; that after the withdrawal of the property in the ninth and tenth wards as exempt from taxation,
and the exemption for the like reason of the property on which
the special assessments had been paid, the entire residue
(not including merchants' capital) was about $14,000,000, and
that the money to be realized therefrom would scarcely exceed
$45,000, instead of $125,000.

Oct. 1877.]

8MEmPHIS v. BRoWN.

He therefore moved for an alias writ commanding such
levy.
The court on the same day sustained the motion, and ordered
that a peremptory writ of mandamus should issue, returnable
to the next term of the court, commanding and requiring the
city of Memphis to proceed forthwith to include within the
property to be taxed for the payment of the said decree, in
accordance with the peremptory writ of mandamus theretofore
issued therein, the taxable capital of merchants for the year
1875, as theretofore returned and assessed by the city for taxation for other purposes, and to lay the same rate of taxation
thereon for the payment of the decree that bad been levied on
the other taxable property of the city, and collect the said taxes
so to be laid; and to pay the same over to the plaintiff forthwith as collected, according to the command of the said original writ.
On the 23d of that month the city passed an ordinance levying a tax of fifty-four cents on the hundred dollars of merchants' capital, "for the forty-eighth corporate year,
1875."
On the twentieth day of May following, the city submitted a
motion in writing to set aside the order of March 2, and presented as an exhibit a copy of bill of complaint which sundry
merchants of Memphis had filed in said court against the city
and said Brown, wherein they, among other matters, allege
that the order was improvidently issued, without any notice to
them, and without process against the city, except the alternative writ of mandamus; and they prayed for a revocation of the
order, and for an injunction against the city, to restrain it from
attempting to levy the tax.
The court refused to set aside the order, but re-entered the
same as its final judgment in the premises.
The city sued out this writ, and here assigns the following
errors :The court below erred
1. In ordering the levy of the tax of fifty-four cents on the
one hundred dollars of taxable property, in excess of the $1.60
already levied.
2. In assessing the capital of merchants for the forty-eighth

lEmPHIS v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

corporate year, conformably to the rule prescribed by the act
of March 25, 1873, inasmuch as said act was in conflict with
the Constitution of the State.
3. In basing the order to levy the tax on the merchants on
the ex parte affidavit of Brown, without making any of the
merchants of Memphis parties to the cause, and without process against the city, except the original, alternative writ of
mandamus.
4. In adjudging the property of any particular tax-payer, or
class of tax-payers, liable to the tax in question.
Mr. T. Y C. Hfumes for the plaintiff in error.
contra.
JA/r. William ABandolph,
H.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
In Aemphis v. United States (supra, p. 293), we decided that
the mandamus to compel the levy and collection of a tax beyond the rate mentioned in the act of Feb. 13, 1854, and
sufficient to pay the judgment recovered by the relator, was
authorized by the laws of the State, and was properly awarded.
That decision covers the first assignment of error in this case,
and leaves it without any foundation.
The other assignments are of minor importance. Some of
them deny the power of the Circuit Court to define the extent
of its own writ of execution. They assert that the court could
not rightfully decide that its order to levy a tax upon all the
property of the city meant to include the capital of merchants,
taxable under the law of the State for other purposes. There
is nothing in these objections. A mandamus to collect a tax
for the payment of a judgment, or a mandamus to pay a judgment, is process in execution, and nobody heretofore has ever
questioned the power of a court to control its own final
process.
The only other question which requires attention is, whether
in exercising that control the court erred by ordering that the
taxable capital of merchants for the year 1875, as theretofore
returned and assessed by the city for taxation for other purposes, be included within the property ordered to be taxed for
the payment of the judgment. The allegation is, not that
merchants' capital is not liable to taxation at a uniform rate

Oct. 1877.]

O

MEMPHIS v. BROWN.

with other taxable property of the city, but that the statute of
the State under which the assessment was made was unjust.
oppressive, and in violation of the State Constitution. We are
not convinced that this is a question we can consider in this
case. The merchants do not appear to have made any complaint when taxes for general purposes were imposed. It is
only when the special tax for the payment of the relator's judgment is ordered that they object. If the mode prescribed by
the statute was in conflict with the State Constitution, they had
a sufficient remedy in the State courts. To those courts they
resorted (3ferchants v. The City of Mfemphis, and Schafer, tax
collector, a manuscript case decided by the Supreme Court at
September Term, 1876) - and we understand that court to
have held, in substance, that the assessments were not illegal. Besides, we are not convinced that, if the question were
an open one for our consideration, the mode prescribed by
the statute for making the assessment was necessarily in conflict with the Constitution. The objection is therefore overruled.
We have considered the case without reference to the question whether the merchants who filed their bill against the
city and Brown were in a situation to intervene in the action
at law between Brown and the city, in the manner attempted
by them. It may be doubted whether on their petition the
court could be asked to correct its judgment in that case. But
waiving this, we are of opinion that no error in the action of
the court is shown.
Judgment affirmed.

