Oct. 1877.]

THE "CITY OF HARTFORD"

AND THE "UNIT."

323

Now, it is evident from this outline of the evidence that
upon the issue made by the pleadings, namely, whether the
defendant received any money for the use of the plaintiff, there
was no necessary conflict in their testimony. The plaintiff
may think that the defendant ought to have collected his (the
plaintiff's) fees, as well as his own. But he cannot deny that
the defendant expressly refused to do so when applied to for
that purpose; and he does not, for he cannot, deny that the
defendant (as he says, and as his receipt shows) may, in fact,
have settled his own fees alone. Lamar's declaration cannot
affect the defendant, especially in view of the express language
of the receipt taken by him. Therefore, as the burden of proof
was on the plaintiff to sustain the issue, and as the whole evidence taken together does not sustain it on his part, but the
only direct evidence on the subject- namely, the testimony of
the defendant, and the receipt given by him to Lamar -is to
the contrary, the judge properly directed the jury to find for the
defendant.
The minor points in which there may have been a conflict in
the testimony of the parties do not affect the main question.
Judgment affirmed.

T

"CITY

OF HARTFORD"

AND TME "UNIT."

1. A steamboat collided with and sunk a schooner towed by a tug. The owner
of the schooner and the owner of her cargo severally libelled the steamboat
and tug, both of which were found to be in fault. Held, that each libellant
was entitled to a decree against each of the offending vessels for a moiety
of his damages, and for interest and costs, with a proviso that if either of
said vessels was unable to pay such moiety, then he should have a remedy
over against the other vessel for any balance thereof which might remain
unpaid.
2. The Alabama and the Game-cock (92 U. S. 695) and The Virginia Ehrman and
the Agnese (supra, p. 309) reaffirmed.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Hudson S. Rideout and others, owners of, the schooner
"A bbie S. Oakes," and Charles Robinson, owner of her cargo,

824

THE

"CITY OF HARTFORD"

AND THE "UNIT."

[SUp. Ct.

filed their separate libels in the District Court for the Southern
District of New York, against the steamboat "City of Hartford" and the steam-tug "Unit," to recover, the first $8,000,
and the second $4,500, damages, occasioned by the sinking of
the schooner in East River, New York, which was caused by a
collision between the "City of Hartford" and her while she
was in tow by the "Unit." In each of the cases the steamer and
tug were claimed by their respective owners. In the first case,
the claimant entered into a bond in the sum of $16,000, and a
stipulation for costs for $250. In the second case, the bond was
for $9,000, and the stipulation for costs for $250. The "Unit"
having been appraised at $8,000, her owners entered into a
stipulation for value in that sum and for $250 costs.
The court, on final hearing, entered a decree in the first case
that the libellants recover from the "City of Hartford" the
sum of $4,119.04 damages, with $56.29 interest and $234.19
costs; and dismissed the libel as to the "Unit," with costs
against the libellants. In the second case, the court dismissed
the libel as to the "Unit," and decreed that Robinson recover
from the "City of Hartford" $8,407.79 damages, with $8.52
interest and $142.64 costs. The owners of the schooner thereupon appealed to the Circuit Court from so much of the decree
as dismissed their libel against the "Unit," and awarded costs
against them. The company appealed from the entire decree
in each case. Robinson did not appeal. The Circuit Court,
upon hearing, entered in the first case a final decree, reversing
that of the District Court, which dismissed the libel as to the
"Unit" and awarded costs to the claimants, and ordering and
adjudging that the libellants recover of the "City of Hartford"
the sum of $2,087.67, being one-half of the damages sustained
by the collision, together with interest thereon and the costs
of seizure, and one-half of the general costs, making in all
$2,674.54; that they recover of the "Unit" $2,087.67, "being
the other one-half of the damages," with interest, and the costs
specially incurred by the proceedings against her, and one-half
of the general costs, amounting in all to $2,787.54.
In the second case, the decree of the District Court was modified, and it was ordered and adjudged that Robinson recover
against the "City of Hartford" the sum of $1,856.66, being

Oct. 1877.]

THE

"CITY

OF HARTFORD" AND THE "UNIT."

325

one half-part of the damages sustained by him by reason of the
collision, including interest thereon to the date of the decree of
the District Court, and the sum of $337.14 interest on said halfpart to the date of the decree of the Circuit Court, and so much
of his costs against said steamboat in the District Court as were
incurred in the seizure, amounting to $102.90, with $18.60
interest thereon, together with one-half of the general costs
of the Circuit Court, taxed at $14.35, amounting in all to
$2,329.65.
From these decrees the Hartford and New York Steamboat
Company, claimants of the steamboat, and Robinson, severally
appealed to this court.
Mr. B. H. Huntley for the steamboat company.
Mr. Joseph H. Choate for the owners of the schooner, and Mr.
Hfenry J. Scudder for Robinson.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Freedom from fault is a good defence in a cause of collision,
even when the suit is promoted to recover compensation for
injuries received by an unoffending party; but the innocent
party, if the collision was occasioned by the fault of the other
vessel or vessels, is always entitled to full compensation for
the injuries received, unless the loss exceeds the amount of the
interest which the owners have in the offending ship or ships
and the freight pending at the time of the collision. 9 Stat.
635; Te Atlas, 93 U. S. 302.
Sufficient appears to show that the schooner was on a voyage
from Baltimore to Portsmouth, N. H., laden with a cargo of
corn, and that she put into the port of New York, by reason of
stress of weather; that while there those in charge of her navigation employed the steam-tug to tow her from her anchorage
through the pass called Hell Gate, and that the steam-tug undertook to perform that service for a reasonable compensation;
that the steam-tug accordingly took the schooner in tow and
proceeded on the route; that while so proceeding, and when in
East River, the two vessels came in sight of the steamer "City
of Hartford," then coming down the river; and the charge
of the libel is that the steamer and steam-tug were so negligently, carelessly, and unskilfully mancauvred and navigated
AIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

326

THE "CITY OF HARTFORD " AND THE "UNIT."

[Sup. Ct.

that the steamer collided with the schooner, and caused her to
sink, and that she, with her cargo and property on board,
became a total loss.
Bad seamanship and unskilful navigation are imputed both
to the steamer and the steam-tug, and the claim is that they
are both bound to make good the damage sustained by the
libellants.
Process was issued, and both the steamer and the steam-tug
were attached by the marshal. Interlocutory proceedings will
be omitted, as they are not material to the questions involved
in the assignment of errors, except to say that the respective
claimants of the respondent steamers appeared and filed answers to the libel. Testimony was taken on both sides; and
after hearing, the District Court ordered a decretal order against
the steamer, in favor of the libellants, and dismissed the libel
as to the steam-tug, holding that the steamer was wholly in
fault.
Owners of the cargo in such a case may, if they see fit, join
with the owners of the vessel in promoting the cause of collision, or they may sue separately, at their election. In this
case they filed a separate libel, in which they charged that the
'collision was occasioned both by the steamer and the steam-tug,
and that both were bound to make good their loss. Service
was made, and the claimants of both respondent vessels appeared and filed answers. Proofs being taken, they went to
hearing; and the District Court entered a decree as in the preceding libel, holding that the steamer was wholly in fault, and
dismissed the libel as to the steam-tug. Separate references
were made to the master, whose respective reports were subsequently confirmed by the court.
By the final decree, the libellants in the first case recovered
$4,119.04, with taxed costs, and the libellant in the second case
recovered $3,704.79, with interest and taxed costs; and all parties except the libellant in the second case appealed to the
Circuit Court.
Hearing was again had; and the Circuit Court reversed the
decree of the District Court in the first case, dismissing the
libel as to the steam-tug, and adjudged and decreed that both
the steamer and the steam-tug were in fault, and that the

Oct. 1877.]

THE

"CITY OF EARTFORD" AND THE "UNIT."

327

damages and costs should be equally apportioned between the
offending vessels.
Pursuant to that order, the decree against the steamer was
for the sum of $2,080.67, for half the damages sustained by the
libellants, including interest, with costs as therein taxed; and
the charge against the steam-tug was for the same sum, with
interest and costs, as in the case of the steamer. In the second
case, also, the decree was in favor of the libellants, upon the
ground that both the steamer and the steam-tug were in fault,
as in the other case, where the libel was promoted by the owners
of the schooner.
Due computation of the loss sustained by the owner of the
cargo, who was the libellant in the second case, was made in
the District Court, and the Circuit Court adopted that computation as correct. As there made, it amounted, with interest,
to the sum of $3,713.13, besides costs as taxed; but the Circuit
Court adjudged and decreed that the libellant recover of the
steamer the sum of $1,856, being one-half of the damages
sustained by the libellant, including interest to date of the
decree in the District Court, and the sum of $337.14, "for
interest on half-p rt" to the date of the decree, with costs and
interest thereon, as more fully set forth in the decree.
Evidence of a decisive character appears in the record to show
that the circuit judge concurred with the District Court that
the steamer was in fault, and that her fault contributed to the
collision which caused the loss sustained by the respective
libellants, but that he was unable to concur thatt the steamtug was without fault. Instead of that, be was of the opinion
that those in charge of the navigation of the steam-tug saw the
steamer as she was coming down the river, at such a distance as
would have enabled the steam-tug to have made any necessary
manoeuvre to avoid the collision.
Beyond all question, he was of the opinion that both the
respondent vessels were in fault, which, by all the authorities,
presents a case where each should be adjudged liable for a moiety
of the damages. By the decree the steamer is adjudged liable
for half the damages; but the libellant, though admitted to be
without fault, has no decree whatever for the other half, or for
any more than half of the costs.

828

THE "CITY OF HARTFORD " AND THE "UNIT."

[Sup.

at.

Appeal was taken to this court, by the claimants of the
steamer, from the decree of the Circuit Court in each case. In
the second case, the libellant, owner of the cargo, appealed from
the decree therein rendered.
Argument to show that the decree of the Circuit Court in
the first case is correct is scarcely necessary, as both courts
concur that the steamer was in fault, and the owners of the
steam-tug have not appealed.
Suggestion is sometimes made that this court will, as a matter
of course, affirm the decree of the Circuit Court where the
decree of the Circuit Court affirms the decree of the District
Court; but the court has never adopted any such rule of practice.
Where the appeal involves a question of fact, the burden in
such a case is on the appellant to show that the decree in the
subordinate court is erroneous; but it is a mistake to suppose
that this court will not re-examine the whole testimony in the
case, as the express requirement of the act of Congress is that
the Supreme Court shall hear and determine such appeals, and
it is as much the duty of the court to reverse the decree from
which the appeal is taken for error of fact, if clearly established, as for error of law. The Baltimore, 8 Wall. 377;
The Maria M1artin, 12 id. 31; The Lady Pike, 21 id. 1.
Neither the evidence exhibited in the record nor the suggestions of counsel contained in the brief filed by the appellants
have had the effect to create any doubts in the mind of the
court that the conclusion of the subordinate courts that the
steamer was ,in fault is correct. Nor do we deem it necessary
to repeat the reasons given by those courts in support of the
decrees in that regard.
Other mancnuvres to avoid a collision failing, it was the clear
duty of the steamer to stop and reverse. Both vessels were in
plain view of each other, in a water where there was plenty of
sea-room, which of itself is sufficient to afford a strong presumption that both were in fault. Enough appears to justify the
conclusion that if the steamer had stopped her engines the
collision never would have occurred, and it is hardly less probable that it would have been avoided if she had put her helm
hard-a-port; but it is not necessary to enter into speculations
upon the subject, as it is highly probable, to say the least, that

Oct. 1877.]

THE

"CITY OF HARTFORD" AND THE "UNIT."

329

the collision might have been avoided if either of the offending
vessels had performed its duty.
Before examining the appeal and cross-appeal in the other
case, it should be remarked that it is settled law that wrongful
acts done by the co-operation and joint agency of two or more
parties constitute them all wrong-doers, and that parties in a
collision case, such as shippers and consignees, bear no part of
the loss in such a disaster, and are entitled to full compensation
for the damage which they suffer from the wrong-doers, except
in the case where their loss exceeds the amount of the interest
which the owners of the offending ship or ships have in them,
and in the freight then pending.
Suppose the value of each vessel in such a case is equal, or
more than equal, to a moiety of the damages, interest, and costs
found due to the libellant, then it is clear that the decree should
be for a moiety of the same against each of the offending vessels, with a provision that if either party is unable to pay his
moiety of the damage, interest, and costs, the libellant shall
have his remedy over against the other party. The Atlas,
93 U. S. 302; The Alabama and the Glame-cock, 92 id. 695;
The Washington and the Gregory, 9 Wall. 513; The Virginia
BErman and the Agnese, supra, p. 309.
Apply that rule to the present case, and it is clear that the
decree in the second case should be modified by inserting the
provision, that if either party is unable to pay his moiety of
the damage, interest, and costs, the libellant may have his
remedy over against the other; and that a further decree be
entered, that the libellant do recover against the steam-tug, her
tackle, apparel, and furniture, the sum of $1,851.66, being one
half-part of the damages sustained by the libellant by reason
of the collision in the pleadings mentioned, including interest
thereon to the date of the decree of the District Court, and the
sum of $337.14 for the interest on said half-part to the date of
the Circuit Court decree; and that the libellant do also recover
of the steam-tug one-half of the costs of said libellant incurred
in the District Court in the seizure of the steam-tug, with interest on the same to the date of the Circuit Court decree, together
with- one-half of the costs of the Circuit Court as there taxed;
and that the steam-tug, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, be

830

THE " CITY OF HARTFORD " AND THE "UNIT."

[Sup. Ct.

condemned therefor, with the provision that if either of the
offending vessels is unable to pay her moiety of the damage,
interest, and costs, the libellant shall have a remedy over against
the other offending vessel for any such balance, - from which it
follows that the decree in the first case is correct, that the appeal of the owner of the cargo must be sustained for the purpose
of modifying the decree in the second case, and for the purpose
of making the addition thereto as specified in the opinion, and
that the decree in that case as modified, and with the addition
thereto specified, be affirmed; The -Dundee, 2 Hagg. 137;
The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302.
Owners of ships and vessels are not liable, under existing
laws, for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, if occasioned
without their privity or knowledge, beyond the amount of their
interest in such ship or vessel and her freight pending at the
time the collision occurred; but the decree in a proceeding in
rem against the vessel is not a decree against the owner, nor
will it render the owner liable in such a case for any greater
amount than what the act of Congress limiting the liability of
such owners allows. Such a decree in such a case is merely
the ascertainment of the damage, interest, and costs which the
libellant has sustained by the collision, and which he is entitled
to recover, provided the interest of the owners in the colliding
vessel or vessels is sufficient to pay it, and not otherwise.
Suffice it to say that the libellant in such a case and in such
a proceeding is entitled to recover for the loss which he sustained by the collision, whether the offending vessel is or is
not of a value sufficient to discharge the amount. Admiralty
courts, where there are two offending vessels, may undoubtedly
divide the damages between them; but the libellant in such a
case is entitled to full compensation if the offending vessels are
of sufficient value, and in that event the decree in each case
should provide that the libellant is entitled, if either party is
unable to pay his moiety of damage, to have his remedy over
against the other offending vessel. The Atlas, supra.
The decree in the first case, and that in the second, as the
same is modified and enlarged, by adding thereto a decree
against the steam-tug for one-half part of the damage, interest,
and costs sustained by the libellant, will be affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

