WALLACE V. Looils.

[Sup. Ct.

It would seem probable from this that the court intends to
defer the order confirming the sale until the time for redemption has expired, and that the report of the sale and the deed
of the master will then be confirmed in one order. There does
not seem to be any objection to this practice, as there will be
no occasion to confirm the sale if the land is redeemed; and if
it is not, the court can confirm the sale and approve the deed
by the same final order.
We have, in the case above referred to, expressed the -view
that, if the courts of the United States give substantial effect to
the right of redemption secured by the statute, they are at liberty in so doing to adhere to their own modes of proceeding.
We think this has been done in the present case. The substantial right is to have a year to redeem. In the State courts,
where the practice undoubtedly is to report the sale at once for
confirmation, the time begins to run from that confirmation.
But if in the Federal court the practice is to make the final
confirmation and deed at the same time, it is a necessity that
the time allowed for redemption shall precede the deed and
confirmation. There is here a substantial recognition of the
right to redeem within the twelve months, and we do not think
there is any error for which the decree should be reversed.
Decree affirmed

WALLACE v. Loomis.
1. The provision in the Constitution of Alabama, which declares that "corporations may be formed under general laws, but shall not be created by special
acts, except for municipal purposes," does not prohibit the legislature from
passing a special act changing the name of an existing railroad corporation,
and giving it power to purchase additional property.
2. A party is estopped from denying the corporate existence of a company when,
by holding its bonds, he acquires a locus standi in the suit brought to fore.
close the mortgage made to secure their payment.
3. The sale of a bankrupt's property under proceedings in involuntary bankruptcy cannot be invalidated by the fact that he, before their commencement, had promised to pay in full his debt to a creditor who, at his instance,
instituted them.
4. The act of Congress approved March 2, 1809 (2 Stat. 534), provides that, in
case of the disability of a judge of the District Court of the United States
to perform the duties of his office, such duties shall be performed by the

Oct. 1877.]

WALLACE v. Looins.

justice of the Supreme Court allotted to the circuit which embraces the
district. By the second section of the act approved April 10, 1869 (16 id.
44), the same power is conferred upon the circuit judge.
5. Where bonds of a corporation, as prepared for issue and sale, promise payment in lawful money, and, as such, were guaranteed by a State, a stipulation that they shall be paid in coin, subsequently indorsed on them by the
corporation, in accordance with the requirement of purchasers from it, is
supplementary and subsidiary, and binds only the corporation itself.
U. A court of equity having jurisdiction of the subject-matter and the parties,
when it takes charge of a railroad and its appurtenances, as a trust fund
for the payment of incumbrances, has power to appoint managing receivers of the property, and, for its preservation and management, authorize
moneys to be raised, and declare the same chargeable as a paramount lien
on the fund.
AFPPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John T. Morgan for the appellant.
.3r.Philip Phillips and h]r. William A. Maury, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was instituted, by a bill in equity filed May 30,
1872, by Francis B. Loomis, John C. Stanton, and DaniJ N.
Stanton, trustees of what is known as the first mortgage of the
Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, for the purpose
of procuring a foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged premises,
being the railroad of said company, with its appurtenances and
rolling-stock, situated in Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, but principally in Alabama. A further'-object of the
bill was to remove the cloud from the title caused by the bankruptcy of said company, the seizure of its property by the
governor of Alabama, and the sale thereof by the assignees in
bankruptcy; also, to protect and preserve the property from
waste and dilapidation until it could be applied to the satisfaction of the mortgage.
The bill stated that the mortgage in question was executed
and delivered to the trustees, Dec. 19, 1868, and a copy of the
same was annexed to the bill as an exhibit. It was further
stated that, under the mortgage, the company issued a large
number of bonds, each for $1,000, with interest at the rate of
eight per cent per annum, payable in gold coin, semi-annually,

WALLACE V. LOOStS.

[Sup. Ct.

on the 1st of January and July in each year; it being provided
in each bond that the amount should not exceed $16,000 per
mile. A copy of one of these bonds, and of the indorsements
thereon, was also annexed to the bill as an exhibit. The bill
stated that the bonds were indorsed by the governor of the
State of Alabama with the guaranty of the State; and the same
fact is recited in the mortgage, referring to certain acts of the
legislature of Alabama, passed in 1867 and 1868, which authorized the governor of the State to indorse and guarantee such
bonds to the extent of $16,000 per mile of the road, upon certain conditions being performed by the company. The bond
appended to the bill is in the usual form of such instruments,
the principal and interest being payable in lawful money of the
United States. The coupons are also in the usual form. The
first indorsement on the bond is by the governor of Alabama,
and recites the acts by virtue of which the indorsement was
made, and declares that the State is liable for the payment of
the principal and interest of the bond. A further indorsement
is also made by the company, agreeing to pay the principal
and interest in coined money of the United States; but no
such agreement is referred to in the mortgage nor on the face
of the bond.
The bill stated that the number of bonds issued and indorsed
was five thousand two hundred, amounting to $5,200,000; and
that they were all issued and disposed of to various persons,
who claimed, by virtue thereof, a first lien on the road and
property mortgaged. It then stated that the railroad company
failed to pay the instalments of interest which became due
on the 1st of January and July, 1871, and the 1st of January,
1872; and that, though the governor of the State had paid a
large portion thereof, yet he refused to pay in any thing but
currency (which was received by the bondholders under protest); and he also refused to pay the interest on a large number of the bonds, because the holders thereof did not present
to him proof that they were bona fide purchasers of the bonds
held by them, though in fact they were such purchasers. [By
an amended and supplemental bill, filed July 6, 1872, it was
stated that the instalment of interest which became due on the
1st of July, 1872, was not paid in any manner, but that pay-

Oct. 1877.]

WALLACE V. Loomis.

ment thereof had been totally refused. It was further stated,
and so appears by the mortgage, that, upon failure by the company to pay any instalment of interest for the space of three
months, the trustees were authorized to take possession of
and sell the road, and pay the whole amount of principal and
interest from the proceeds of such sale.]
The original bill further stated that the governor of Alabama claimed the right, by virtue of the payments made by
him, and the delinquency of the company, to seize the road
and its appurtenances, and did seize the same, and placed the
same in the possession of a receiver by him appointed, who
attempted to operate the road in the States of Alabama and
Mississippi, but by his neglect and mismanagement the property had become greatly injured and deteriorated.
The bill further stated that the governor of Alabama had
also filed bills for the foreclosure and sale of the road and its
equipments in the States of Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, and
Tennessee (in all of which States portions of the road were situated), and had procured the appointment of receivers in said
States, who took possession of the said several portions of the
road; and that the governor had also procured the company to
be declared bankrupt in the District Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama, which court had
appointed assignees in bankruptcy of said company; and that
the said assignees had made a pretended sale of the property,
at which sale the governor had purchased the same under the
pretence of purchasing it for the State of Alabama. The bill
charged that this was a mere pretence, and that the purchase
was really made for the benefit of other parties. The bill also
stated that the company was sued by many persons, and that,
by reason of the multiplicity of suits, the property of the company would be greatly deteriorated and wasted, and the possession thereof by those entitled thereto would be greatly
interfered with.
The bill further stated, that, by reason of the various conflicting claims set up to said railway and other property by
the various, receivers and assignees, each denying to the other
authority to run, operate, or control the same, the said property was permitted to go to destruction, and was being injured

WALLACE v. Loomis.

[Sup. (it.

to the amount of $1,000 a day; and that the damage and
injury already done to said property by said mismanagement
exceeded $1,500,000; that the interest of the bondholders
was being greatly impaired, and that the property had ceased
to be sufficient secui'ity for their payment. Various other
statements were made with regard to the rapid deterioration
of the property, the clouds cast upon the title thereto by the
various legal proceedings, &c., and prayed for the appointment of receivers with power to raise money to make necessary repairs, and to manage the property until it should be
sold by order of the court.
The defendants to the original bill were the Alabama and
Chattanooga Railroad Company, the trustees of the second
mortgage, the receivers appointed by the State courts at the
instance of the governor of Alabama, the assignees in bankruptcy, Governor Lindsay in his individual capacity, the receiver appointed by him, and one Caldwell, an officer who had
advertised much of the loose property for sale.
The bill was first presented to the justice of the fifth circuit,
at Galveston, in May, 1872; and an order was granted to show
cause at the next Circuit Court, to be held at Mobile in June,
why an injunction should not be granted and a receiver appointed. No hearing was had, however, at that term. Separate answers were filed by R. B. Lindsay, governor of Alabama,
in his individual capacity, by Charles Walsh, the receiver appointed at the governor's instance by the State courts of Alabama and Mississippi, and by William T. Wofford, the receiver
appointed at the same instance by the State court of Georgia.
The governor vindicated the course he had taken, and repelled
the charges of collusion made against him in the bill. Walsh
did little more than disclaim any interest in the controversy;
and Wofford detailed the circumstances of his appointment as
receiver, and the manner in which he had endeavored to discharge his duties as such. Numerous affidavits were taken,
and documents exhibited on the condition of the road, and on
the various points that were made by the parties. Finally, by
general agreement, application was again made to the justice
of the circuit in August, 1872, for an injunction and the appointment of a receiver, and a large mass of affidavits and doc-

Oct. 1877.]

WALLACE V.

Loois.

uments was produced, showing the necessity of immediate
interposition of the court to save the property from absolute
destruction. No opposition was now made to the appointment
of receivers as asked by the bill, but the appointment was consented to by the governor of Alabama, and acquiesced in by all
the parties. The complainants, by an amendment to their bill,
withdrew all charges of improper conduct on the part of the
governor and his agents. Arrangements had been made with
him, by which all objections arising from the claims of the
State to the possession of the road, to the proceedings in bankruptcy, and to the appointment of receivers by the State courts,
were obviated, - it being agreed that the proceedings by which
the latter bad been appointed should be discontinued. Under
these circumstances, an order for an injunction and the appointment of receivers was made on the twenty-sixth day of August,
1872. This order, amongst other things, recited as follows:"It appears, by the affidavits and proofs duly submitted and filed
in this cause, that the property in question, to wit, the railroad and
connecting works, and other property late of the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, which are embraced in and covered by
the mortgage known as the first mortgage of said company, are
rapidly deteriorating in value, and being wasted, scattered, and
destroyed, whereby the security of the first-mortgage bondholders,
and the interest of all other persons concerned in said property, are
subject to great hazard and danger of entire sacrifice.
"And whereas the governor of Alabama, on behalf of said State,
has purchased the said property at the sale thereof by the assignees
in bankruptcy of the said company, for the purpose of protecting the
interests of said State, as guarantor or indorser of $4,720,000 of
said first-mortgage bonds, the indorsement of which has heretofore
been recognized by the governor of Alabama as valid, or upon which
he has heretofore paid interest, but it appears that the said State,
as well as the said company, has failed to pay the full amount of
interest due on said bonds;
"And whereas, in the present condition of said property, it is
impossible, without great sacrifice, to dispose of the same in any
manner; and whereas it has been proposed and agreed by the
parties interested that all further opposition to the proceedings in
bankruptcy against said company in the District Court for the
Middle District of Alabama shall be withdrawn, and that the said

WALLACE v. Loomis.

[Sup. Ct.

proceedings shall be affirmed ; and that all other proceedings for
the appointment of receivers in the several State and District courts
shall be discontinued, so that the proceedings in this suit shall have
full effect and operation without undue embarrassment, and that a
receiver or receivers shall be appointed in this cause, to take charge
of said property, and put the same into proper condition for its
preservation and disposition, for the mutual benefit of all parties
interested therein;
"And whereas, in view of all the evidence and admissions of the
parties, the court is satisfied that a receiver or receivers ought to
be appointed to take charge of the entire property and manage the
same, and to put the same in order and repair, to prevent the entire
destruction thereof."
The order then appointed three receivers, with power to take
possession of the property and collect the debts and claims due
to the company, and also with power to put the road and
property in repair, and to complete any uncompleted portions
thereof, and to procure rolling-stork, and to manage and operate
the road to the best advantage, so as to prevent the property
from further deteriorating, and to save and preserve the same
for the benefit and interest of the first-mortgage bondholders,
and all others having an interest therein. The order also provided that, to enable the receivers to perform the duty imposed
upon them, they might raise money to an amount limited in
the order, by loan, if necessary, upon certificates to be issued by
them, which should be a first lien on the property.
Up to this point of time, Wallace, the present appellant, was
not a party; but, as a holder of second-mortgage bonds, was,
with the other holders of such bonds, represented in the suit
and proceedings by the trustees of the second mortgage, who
were defendants, and had due notice of, and acquiesced in, all
that was done.
In February, 1873, by leave of the court, Wallace was made
a defendant, and thereupon filed an answer and cross-bill, claiming to be the holder and owner of five second-mortgage bonds
for $1,000 each. His answer was, in substance, as follows: He
denied that the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company
was a corporate body, though admitting that there was a jointstock company so called, and contending (as was necessary to

Oct. 1877.]

WALLACE v. LoomIs.

do in order to sustain his own claim) that the bonds and mortgages issued by it were valid and binding in equity as a lien
on the property in question; he denied that all the first and
second mortgage bonds were valid, contending that many of
them were held malafide and without consideration; he denied
the validity of the bankrupt proceedings against the company,
and the validity of the sale of the property by virtue thereof;
he denied that the State was liable on the first-mortgage bonds,
and that the governor of Alabama had any right to pay interest
or to seize the road therefor; and affirmed that the trustees of
the first and second mortgages had the superior right to take
possession of said property, under the powers conferred in the
mortgages.
It is difficult to see how the allegations of the answer, if true,
could furnish any fair ground of defence to the bill. It rather
corroborated the position of the complainants than otherwise,
and furnished additional reasons for the relief which they asked.
Indeed, the cross-bill, which was filed at the same time with
the answer, and which amplified the averments thereof, prayed
that the first and second mortgages might be sustained for the
benefit of all bonafide owners of bonds issued under the same,
and that the court would continue to hold the property in the
hands of receivers, and would continue to direct and control
them in the administration thereof; and that, when a sale of
the property should become necessary and advantageous to all
concerned, the proceeds be brought into court, and paid to the
parties entitled thereto.
This hardly bears the aspect of opposition to the general
object of the original bill; but, as the appellant objects to
the decree for pronouncing against the positions taken in the
answer, and has argued the subject with much earnestness, as
a reason why the decree ought to be reversed, we will examine
these positions before proceeding further.
Pirst,The answer alleges that the Alabama and Chattanooga
Railroad Company was not a corporate body, and the decree
affirms the contrary. The cross-bill states at large the reason
for the allegation of the answer. It is, that the company had
its alleged corporate existence alone in virtue of a special act
of the legislature of Alabama, passed the 17th of September,

154

WALLACE v. LooMIs.

[Sup. Ct.

1868, which act upon its face was a violation of the Constitution of the State, which declares that "corporations may be
formed under general laws, but shall not be created by special
act, except for municipal purposes." The act referred to is
set out in full, as an exhibit to the cross-bill. It authorizes the
Wills Valley Railroad Company (a pre-existing corporation) to
purchase the railroad and franchises of the Northeast and Southwestern Alabama Railroad Company (another pre-existing corporation); and, after doing so, to change its own name to that
of the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company.
We are unable to see any thing in this legislation repugnant
to the constitutional provision referred to. That provision cannot, surely, be construed to prohibit the legislature from changing the name of a corporation, or from giving it power to
purchase additional property; and this was all that it did in
this case. No new corporate powers or franchises were created.
The appellant, however, in his cross-bill alleges that fraud and
collusion were practised in making the purchase of the Northeast and Southwestern Alabama Railroad, and that the proper
steps were not taken to entitle the Wills Valley Railroad Company to assume the new name. It is admitted that the purchase
was made and the name assumed; and it sufficiently appears
throughout the record and by the laws of Alabama that the
company always afterwards acted under the name so assumed,
and was recognized thereby by all departments of the State
government. The mortgage and bonds under and by virtue of
which the appellant claims a standing in court were executed
by the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company as a corporation. The mortgage commences with the statement that
it"was made between the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad
Company, a corporation of the States of Alabama, Georgia,
Mississippi, and Tennessee, party of the first part, and the
trustees (naming them), party of the second part; and it then
recites as follows: "Whereas, in pursuance and by virtue of an
act of the legislature of the State of Alabama, approved Nov.
17, 1868, and entitled 'An Act relating to the Wills Valley
Railroad Company and the Northeast and Southwestern Alabama Railroad Company,' said Wills Valley Railroad Company

Oct. 1877.]

WALLACE V.

Loois.

has changed its name to the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company." In view of these facts, we think that the
appellant is estopped from denying the corporate existence of
the company whose bonds he thus holds, and by -virtue of which
he acquires a locus standi in the suit. Irregularities and even
fraud committed in making the purchase authorized by the act,
and failure to perform strictly all the requisites for changing
the company's name, cannot avail the appellant, occupying the
position he does in this suit, to deny the corporate existence of
the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company. He waived
all such objections when he took the bonds, and came into
court only as a holder and owner thereof. The irregularities
on which he relies might, perhaps, have been sufficient cause
for a proceeding on the part of the State to deprive the company of its franchises, or on the part of third persons who may
have been injuriously affected by the transactions. But neither
the State nor any other persons have complained; and it is not
competent for the appellant to raise the question in this collateral way, for the purpose of gaining some supposed advantage
over other creditors of the same company, who have relied on
its corporate existence in the same manner that he has done.
Secondly, The ground for impeaching the sale of the road by
the assignees in bankruptcy is based on the supposed want of
jurisdiction of the judge who made the order to show cause why
the company should not be declared bankrupt, of the District
Court which made the decree of bankruptcy, and the alleged
want of notice to the second-mortgage bondholders, or their
trustees, of the petition for an order of sale.
As to these proceedings (which are quite fully stated in
the answer of Lindsay, one of the defendants), the appellant,
in his cross-bill, admits that a petition of involuntary bankruptcy was filed against the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, in the District Court of the United States for
the Middle District of Alabama, by one W. A. 0. Jones; that
a rule to show cause was made by Circuit Judge Woods; that
the company was adjudged a bankrupt by default by the
district judge; that Bailey, Gindrat, and S. B. Jones were
appointed assignees; that they filed a petition in the District
Court for the sale of the property; that the court granted

WALLACE v. LoomIs.

[Sup. Ot.

a rule to show cause thereon, and heard the same, and made an
order of sale; and that the sale was made accordingly. The
petition of the assignees, asking for an order to sell, the order
to show cause why a sale should not be made, and the order of
sale made thereon, are all set out in full by way of exhibits to
the cross-bill. The assignees' report of sale, and the order confirming the same, had been previously filed in the cause by the
complainants. With all this in the record, it is certainly difficult to see any lack of jurisdiction in the court to order the sale
complained of ; but the cross-bill alleges that these proceedings
were irregular and void. Whether this be so, and whether it
can be alleged in this collateral way, depends upon the character of the objections made to their validity. The objections
made are as follows: -First,That the company was not a legal corporation, and
therefore the court had no jurisdiction to declare it bankrupt.
We have already considered this objection, and think it has
no foundation in fact.
iSecondly, That the proceedings were instigated by the governor of Alabama, on a pledg& or promise to Jones, the petitioner, that his debt should be paid in full. We do not perceive
how this fact, if true, can avoid the proceedings in bankruptcy.
If the debtor should make such a promise or pledge, it would
affect his discharge, but would not invalidate the proceedings. To give it that effect would operate to the injury of
other creditors and purchasers interested in the bankruptcy
proceedings.
Thirdlyq, It is alleged that Judge Woods had no authority to
make the order to show cause; that he could not know, when
he made it, that the district judge would not be present to conduct the proceedings. As the appellant has not set foith in
full the order to show cause referred to, we must presume that
the circuit judge acted according to law. He had full power
to perform the duties of the district judge when the latter was
disabled to perform them. The act of Congress of March 2,
1809 (2 Stat. 534), expressly authorized the justice of the circuit to do this, in case of the disability of the district judge to
perform the duties of his office; and the act of April 10, 1869,
which created the circuit judges, conferred upon them the same

Oct. 1877.]

WALLACE v.

LoomIs.

power, in the circuits, as the justices of the Supreme Court
had. 16 id. 44.
Fourtly, It is objected that no notice of the assignee's petition for a sale was given to the second-mortgage bondholders,
or their trustees, although it requested a sale of the property
free from the incumbrance of the second mortgage, and subject
only to that of the first mortgage; but it appears from the
petition itself, set forth as an exhibit to the cross-bill, that it
had annexed to it a copy of both the first and second mortgages, and that it stated that the assignees were informed that
there was a third mortgage; that it stated the number of bonds
which had been issued under the second mortgage; that it
stated and alleged that much the larger portion of the secondmortgage bonds which had been issued were in the hands of
the corporators of the railroad company, without consideration
or value; that the only holders and owners of said bonds
known to the assignees were W. A. C. Jones (the petitioner in
bankruptcy), James W. Sloss, and A. C. Hargrove, residents
of Alabama, and that the others were not known to them, and
that they believed they were citizens of other States, and beyond the jurisdiction of the court; that the original trustees
named in the second mortgage had ceased to be such, and that,
under a power in the mortgage, others had been appointed in
their stead,- to wit, as the assignees had been informed, Seth
Adams, Francis B. Loomis, and John 0. Stanton, all residing
in Boston, Mass. It appears further, that the order to show
cause, made upon said petition, was directed to be served on
the said substituted trustees, and also on the said Jones, Sloss,
and Hargrove, ten days before the hearing thereon. The order
of sale recites that it appeared to the satisfaction of the court
that due service of the petition and order to show cause had
been made for more than ten days prior thereto. Now, although
the assignees were in error as to the names of the substituted
trustees of the second mortgage, yet the service on a portion of
the bondholders, whose interest was identical with that of the
appellant and the other bondholders, and who were the only
bondholders known to the assignees, would seem to be sufficient,
under the circumstances, to give the court jurisdiction to make
the order of sale. The assignees themselves represented all

WALLACE v. Loomis.

[Sup. Ct.

creditors of every class; and if they deemed it advisable that
the property should be sold, and that it ought to be sold subject only to the first mortgage, and gave notice of their application for an order of sale to all persons interested in the
subsequent securities of whom they had any knowledge (such
persons representing a real and substantial interest identical
with that of the others who were not known), we think that
the bankruptcy court had power to act upon the petition.
The oder of sale provided that abundant notice of the sale
should be given, both in Alabama and elsewhere; and it is
apparent, from the report of sale made by the assignees, that
it was a notorious proceeding, the appellant himself attending
the sale, by his attorney, and making sundry objections thereto.
The defendant and other holders of second-mortgage bonds, if
they had so desired, could have objected to the confirmation of
sale, and it would then have been competent to them to question the sufficiency of notice and the jurisdiction of the court;
but no such objections appear to have been made by them.
On the whole, we think that the objections to the jurisdiction of the District Court were not well taken, and that the sale
was a valid one, even if it be a question whether, under the
circumstances, it was so made as to cut off the second-mortgage
bondholders.
But if the objections were valid, there is nothing, in reference
to this matter, in the final decree of the court, which can
materially injure the appellant. All the notice which the
decree takes of the assignees' sale is to recite the facts of the
proceedings in bankruptcy, and of the sale as it actually
occurred. No order is made or judgment rendered in the decree which would preclude the appellant and other holders
of second-mortgage bonds, in the proceedings to be instituted
before the master for ascertaining the claims chargeable upon
the property, from setting up their claim to any part of the
surplus proceeds after satisfying the first-mortgage bondholders
and the liens paramount thereto.
We have thus disposed of the principal grounds of defence
taken by the appellant in his answer and cross-bill. His allegation that the State of Alabama was never liable on the
indorsement made by its governor on the first-mortgage bonds,

Oct. 1877.]

WALLACE V. Loomis.

and therefore had no right to take possession of the road, and
is accountable for its proceeds whilst in the possession of its
agent or receiver, and that those proceeds should be set off
against its claim for interest paid, whether such allegation be
well or ill founded, forms no objection to the decree made in
the cause. There is nothing in the decree which affirms or disaffirms the rights of the State. Perhaps the very fact that
this point was taken in the appellant's answer was the reason
why the decree is silent on the subject. Whatever demands
may exist in favor of or against the State remain unadjudicated,
as they should be, unless the State had chosen voluntarily to
submit itself to the jurisdiction of the court.
The final decree, from which the present appeal was taken,
was made on the 23d of January, 1874; and it was thereby, in
substance, declared, that the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company was a corporation under the laws of Alabama,
and that corporate privileges had been granted to it by the
States of Tennessee, Mississippi, and Georgia; that the first
mortgage and the bonds bona fide issued under it were a first
lien on the property, except as therein afterwards stated; that
the moneys raised by loan, or advanced by the receivers and
expended on the road pursuant to their order of appointment,
were a lien paramount to the first mortgage; and direction was
given that it should be referred to a master to ascertain the
true amount of said loan and of the bonds bona fide issued under
the first mortgage, as well as other claims against the property.
The decree further found and declared that the railroad company had been declared bankrupt by the District Court of the
Middle District of Alabama, and that the said court had
appointed assignees in bankruptcy; and that the said assignees,
by virtue of an order of. the court, had sold the railroad, and
that the governor of Alabama had purchased the same on behalf of the State, subject only to the lien of the first mortgage.
The decree then directed that the road and its appurtenances
should be sold, as an entirety, by commissioners named for that
purpose, with directions as to the manner of sale; and that,
when sold, the company, and all parties claiming under it,
should be barred and foreclosed of all claim thereto. It then
decreed the application of the proceeds to arise from the sale,

WALLACE V. LOOiIS.

[Sup. Ct.

as follows: first, to the payment of the trust and legal
expenses; second, to the payment of taxes and other liens prior
in law to the first mortgage, including the liabilities incurred,
as aforesaid, by the receivers, and such receivers' certificates or
other indebtedness as might thereafter be sanctioned or ordered
to be paid by the court; third, to the payment of such firstmortgage bonds (with the interest thereon) as might be
reported by the master to have been bona fide issued and yet
unpaid; fourth, the residue, if any, to be subject to such order
and priority in distribution as the court should thereafter establish and decree. It was further ordered that the master should
ascertain and' report the amount of said several classes of
securities before the sale.
The appellant raises several objections to this decree" in addition to those which have been already considered.
First, it is objected that it is variant from the relief sought
by the bill. The principal gravamen of the bill, it is contended,
was that the interest due on the bonds was not paid in gold;
and the decree sought was, that the bondholders were entitled
by the contract to be paid in gold coin. It is also alleged that
the evidence was variant from the allegations of the bill in this
respect. The bill alleged that the contract was to pay in coin,
whereas the bonds, as shown by the exhibit annexed to the
bill, were only payable in lawful money. It is argued, from
the maxim that the allegataand the probatashould agree, that
this variance was fatal, and that the bill should have been
dismissed.
It is true that the complainants do, in their bill, insist that
the contract was to pay the principal and interest of the bonds
in gold coin, and the point is strenuously urged as a ground for
relief. But it cannot be justly said that this was the principal
gravamen of the bill, or that the principal object of the bill
was to establish that claim. Its main object was to secure the
payment of the first-mortgage bonds (however payable), and to
get possession of, and preserve from destruction, the fund out
of which they were payable, and which, it was alleged, -was
fast being dissipated and destroyed. The leading facts on which
this desired relief was based, and which were alleged and relied
on, were the execution of the mortgage as a first lien on the

Oct. 1877.]

WALLACE v. LoomIS.

property, the issue of bonds secured thereby, the insolvency of
the company and its failure to pay the interest, the refusal of
the State to pay the interest in coin, and its refusal to pay the
interest on a large number of bonds in any form, and the mismanagement and rapid deterioration and destruction of the
property subject to the mortgage. These facts were all substantially admitted by the appellant in his answer and crossbill, or clearly follow from facts which were admitted. The
question about payment in coin was a subordinate one. The
trustees saw the security of the bondholders fast disappearing
before their eyes. They desired to save it in time, to rescue it
from the hands of those who were mismanaging and dissipating
it. They might be mistaken on the question of coin, but the
default was sufficient without that to entitle them to the relief
they sought. They asserted that view of the claim which was
most favorable to the bondholders. This should not preclude
them from relief if a less favorable view should be adopted by
the court. The company bad, in fact, by an indorsement on
the bonds, agreed to pay in coin; but the court probably considered that this agreement was not binding on the State, nor
on the subsequent incumbrancers, not being notified in the
mortgage; and it only rendered a decree for payment in lawful
money. Surely the second-mortgage bondholders cannot complain of this decision, which was in their favor; and we can
see no such variance between the proofs and allegations as to
render the decree technically erroneous. Whilst the complainants, in their bill, insisted that the agreement was to pay
in coin, they spread the whole agreement upon the record, precisely as it was made, so that no one was misled by the form or
manner of pleading. If the objection were a valid one, it
might have been set up by way of demurrer, or it might have
been made in the answer. But in neither of these ways did
the appellant see fit to bring it to the notice of the court. We
think that he cannot now complain of it as error in the decree.
The appellant argues further, however, that the indorsement
by the company of an agreement to pay the bonds in coin had
the effect of changing the contract as guaranteed by the State,
and as entitled to priority over the second-mortgage bonds;
and, therefore, that the bonds being thus changed in their legal
VOL. VIL

11

WALLACE V. Loowns.

[Sup. Or.

effect lost the benefit of the guaranty, and the priority to
which they would otherwise have been entitled. This would,
indeed, be a strange result. The bonds on their face, as prepared for issue and sale, promised payment in lawful money.
As such, they were guaranteed by the State. As such, they
were entitled to priority over the second-mortgage bonds. The
purchasers required from the company the further stipulation
that it should pay in coin. Such stipulation was clearly supplemental and subsidiary, affecting only the company itself.
So long as it was not recognized by the court to the prejudice
of the State, or of the holders of the second-mortgage bonds, it
is difficult to see how the latter could be injured by it. They
could be no more injured, in a legal point of view, than if a
stipulation had been made for additional security. That it
could not be enforced against the common fund, to the prejudice of the State or of the second-mortgage bondholders, is
conceded by the court in its decree. And in this we see no
error.
The only other material objection made by the appellant to
the decree, not already disposed of, is, that it declared the
amount due on the receivers' certificates to be a lien on the
property in their hands prior to that of the first-mortgage
bonds. The history of these certificates has already been referred to. The receivers were authorized by the order appointing them, amongst other things, to put the road in repair and
operate the same, and to procure such rolling-stock as might be
necessary; and, for these purposes, to raise money by loan to
an amount named in the order, and issue their certificates of
indebtedness therefor; and the order declared that such loan
should be a first lien on the property, payable before the firstmortgage bonds. The power of a court of equity to appoint
managing receivers of such property as a railroad, when taken
under its charge as a trust fund for the payment of incumbrances, and to authorize such receivers to raise money necessary for the preservation and management of the property, and
make the same chargeable as a lien thereon for its repayment,
cannot, at this day, be seriously disputed. It is a part of that
jurisdiction, always exercised by the court, by which it is its
duty to protect and preserve the trust funds in its hands. It

Oct. M$7.]

WALLACE V. LoomtIS.

is, undoubtedly, a power to be exercised with great caution;
and, if possible, with the consent or acquiescence of the parties
interested in the fund. In the present case, it appears that the
parties most materially interested either expressly consented
to the order, or offered no objection to it. The appellant
complains that it was made without due notice to the secondmortgage bondholders. But this cannot properly be alleged,
inasmuch as the trustees of the second mortgage were parties
to the suit, and had due notice of the application, and made no
objection to its being granted. The bondholders were represented by their trustees, and must be regarded as bound by
their acts, at least so far as concerns the power of the court to
act, in making the order, and so far as the interest of third persons acting upon the faith of it might be affected. The appellant did not seek to be made a party to the suit until several
months after the order was made; and, when he became a party
and filed his answer and cross-bill, he prayed that the court
would continue to hold the property by its receivers, and would
continue to direct and control them in the administration
thereof, without suggesting the slightest objection to the terms
of the order by which the existing receivers had been appointed.
We see nothing in the case before us on which the appellant
can ground any just exception, either to the original order
which authorized the loan to be made, or to the decree which
confirmed it and recognized such loan as a paramount lien on
the fund.
Other objections of a subordinate character are made to the
decree; but we are satisfied, from an examination of the
grounds on which they rest, that they do not show any error
therein.

Decree affirmed.

