LSup. Ot.

SPOFFORD V. KIRK.

SPOFFORD V. KIRK.
A. employed B. to collect a claim against the United States. Before its allowance, or the issue of a warrant for its payment, he drew, in favor of C., an
order on B., payable out of any moneys coming into his hands on account of
said claim. B. accepted it, and D. became the holder of it in good faith and
for value. A. refused to recognize its validity after the warrant in his favor
had been issued, or to indorse the latter. D. thereupon filed his bill against
A. and B. to enforce payment of the order. Held, 1. That the order becanre,
upon its acceptance, and in the absence of any statutory prohibition, an
equitable assignment pro tanto of the claim. 2. That, under the act of Feb.
26, 1853 (10 Stat. 170, re-enacted in sect. 477, Rev. Stat.), the accepted order
was void, and that D. took no interest in the claim, and acquired no lien upon
the fund arising therefrom.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
James B. Kirk employed Hosmer & Co. to prosecute his
claim for $12,000 against the United States, for supplies furnished to the army during the war of the rebellion, and for
damages sustained by reason of the military occupation of his
property. Before the allowance of the claim, he drew upon
that firm the following orders "CUIP-EPER

COURT-HOUSE, VA.,

"Jan. 14, 1873.
"Messrs. Hosmer & Co., of Washington City, D. C., will please
pay to J. S. Wharton, or order, six hundred ($600) dollars out of
whatever moneys may be coming into your hands for me, for supplies furnished and damages sustained by the United States army
during the war.
"JAMrEs
"CULPEPER

B. KIRK."

COURT-HOUSE, VA.,

"Jan. 14, 1873.
"Messrs. Hosmer & Co., of Washington City, D. C., will please
pay to E. R. Taylor, or order, six hundred (8600) dollars out of
whatever moneys may be coming into your hands for me, for supplies furnished and damages sustained by the United States army
during the war.
"JAME~s B. ]K!tKZ'
Which were thereupon severally accepted by the drawees, by
writing across the face of the first, as follows: -

Oct. 1878,.]

SPOFFORD V. KIRK.

Jan. 24, 1873.
"Accepted: payment to be made out of any moneys received by
us from the United States on the claim of said James B. Kirk, and
remaining in our hands, after deduction and payment of attorney'sfees in the case.
" WASHNGTON,

"HosMuR & Co."

And of the second, as follows :
"Accepted: payment to be made out of any moneys received by
us from the United States on the claim of said James B. Kirk, and
remaining after' deduction and payment of our attorney's fees in
the case, and also our acceptance of a similar order for the same
amount in favor of Dr. J. S. Wharton.
"Hos Mu & Co.
"Jan. 25, 1873."
The orders bearing said acceptances, and indorsed by the
respective payees, were, in February, 1873, offered for sale to
Ainsworth R. Spofford, who, on the written assurance of the
drawees that Kirk had been allowed by the government something over $9,000, became the assignee or holder of both for
value and in entire good faith.
Upon the issue of the treasury warrant for the sum awarded
to Kirk, Spofford made demand upon Hosmer & Co. for the
payment of the orders. Kirk having refused to indorse the
warrant or to admit the validity of the orders, Spofford filed
this bill to enforce compliance with said orders and acceptances, and to enjoin Hosmer & Co. from surrendering and Kirk
from receiving said warrant.
The court below dismissed the bill, whereupon Spofford
appealed here.
Mr. T. A. Lambert for the appellant.
As the orders furnish no evidence of a purpose on the part
of Kirk to assign his claim against the United States, they
were not drawn in derogation of the act of Feb. 26, 1853, and
are not affected by it.
They were designed to clothe the respective payees with the
badge of absolute ownership of the amount thereby severally
appropriated to them or their assigns, "out of whatever moneys
might be coming into the hands of the drawees for the drawer,

SPOFFORD V. KIRK.

PSup. Ct.

for supplies furnished and damages sustained by the United
States army during the war." The fund thus designated had
but a potential existence, and was wholly unaffected by the
orders, until it actually or constructively reached the hands of
the drawees. From the moment, however, it came to their
possession, they, by reason of their previous acceptance, became
clothed with a trust to administer it agreeably to the directions
contained in the orders. In other words, the orders, when
drawn and accepted, created in equity an absolute and irrevocable appropriation of their contents when collected by the
drawees from the drawer's claim against the government, and
the sums named were held by Hosmer & Co. in trust for the
payees or their assignees. Story, Eq. Jur., sects. 1040-1047;
Mandeville v. Welch, 5 Wheat. 277; Tiernan et al. v. Jackson,
5 Pet. 580; Croser v. Craig, 1 Wash. 424; 1lfnemony et al.,
Assignees, v. Perrers,3 Johns. (N. Y.) 71; Weston v. Barker,
12 id. 276; Morton v. Nailor, 1 Hill (N. Y.), 585; Burn v.
Carvalho, 4 Myl. & Cr. 702, 703; Bow v. -Dawson,1 Yes. 331;
L'.strange v. L'strange, 13 Beav. 284; 2 Spence, Eq. Jur.
855, 860, 861, 907.
The accepted orders constitute a contract which a court of
equity will enforce by way of specific performance, and their
operation upon the fund attached as soon as the drawees became possessed of the treasury warrant. 2 Spence, Eq. Jur.
852, 854, 865, 866, 896; Story, Eq. Jur., sects. 783, 1040 b,
1040 c, 1044, 1055; Wright v. Wright, 1 Yes. 411; Beckley v.
Newland, 2 P. W. 182; Sydney v. Sydney, 3 id. 276; Legard
v. Hodges, 1 Ves. Jr. 478.
Mr. L. L. Lewis, contra.
1. The orders drawn by Kirk created no lien on the fund
subsequently appropriated by Congress for the payment of hi
claim, and a court of equity was, therefore, without jurisdiction
in the case. Trist v. Child, 21 Wall. 441.
2. So far from being contracts to be specifically executed,
they were absolutely null and void by the act of Feb. 26, 1853,
10 Stat. 170.
3. If they were valid for any purpose, the complainant had
a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law.

Oct. 1878.]

SPOFFORD V. KIRK.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether the orders, drawn as they were upon a designated
fund, made payable to order, and accepted by the drawees, are
held by the indorsee free from any equities existing between
the payees and the drawer, though the indorsee purchased them
without any notice of such equities, is a question which the case
does not require us to consider. It has been ably and elaborately argued by the counsel for the appellant, and if the orders
could have any legal effect, we might be compelled to answer
it. But there is a primary question which must be met and
determined before we reach the one principally argued. It is,
whether the orders are operative for any purpose. The complainants' case rests upon the assumption that, coupled with the
acceptance of the drawees, they created an equitable lien upon
the debt due from the United States to the drawer. If they
did not, it is plain that the court below had no jurisdiction in
equity to grant the relief asked for by the bill. The complainant's only remedy was at law. If they did, it must be because
the orders and acceptances amounted to an equitable assignment, pro tanto, of the claim of the drawer against the government. The ingenious argument for the appellant is that the
orders clothed the respective payees with absolute ownership of
the several sums mentioned therein, out of whatever moneys
might be coming into the hands of the drawees from the United
States for the drawer; and it is said that the fund thus specified
was unaffected by the orders, and had only a potential existence
in the drawees' hands until it was received by them, but that
frbm the moment of possession they assumed a trust to administer the fund in accordance with the directions given by the
orders, having previously accepted them.
Another formal statement of the argument is, that the
orders drawn by Kirk upon Hosmer & Co., and accepted by
them, created in equity an absolute and irrevocable appropriation of their contents, when collected by the drawees from the
drawer's claim against the government, and that when' collected the sums named in the orders were held by the drawees
in trust for the payees or their assignees. There is no substantial variance in the argument stated in these several forms.
However stated, the equitable effect of the orders and accept-

SPOFFORD V. KIRK.

[Sup. Ct.

ances, independent of any statutory prohibition, if they had
any effect when they were drawn, was to transfer a portion of
the drawer's claim against the United States to the payees.
After the orders were given and accepted, the drawer could
not in a court of equity insist that he was entitled to the entire
amount which might subsequently be allowed for his claim.
If, instead of two orders, he had given one for the entire sum
which might be awarded to him by the government, there can
be no doubt that it would have divested his whole interest, and
vested it in equity in the person in whose favor the order was
drawn. In other words, it would have been an equitable assignment of the claim. How, then, can it be that an order
drawn upon the fund, or payable out of it, if accepted, is not a
partial assignment? There is nothing in Story's Equity Jurisprudence, sects. 1040 to 1047 inclusive, nor in any of the cases
cited by the appellant, inconsistent with our holding that such
an order is in equity a partial assignment.
We are brought, then, to the inquiry whether such an assignment of a claim against the United States, made before the
claim has been allowed, and before a warrant has been issued
for its payment, has any validity, either in law or in equity.
The act of Congress approved Feb. 26, 1853 (10 Stat. 170),
entitled "An Act to prevent frauds upon the treasury of the
-United States,"' re-enacted in sect. 3477 of the Revised Statutes, declares that all transfers and assignments thereafter
made of any claim upon the United States, or any part or
share thereof or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and all powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities
for receiving payment of any such claim, or any part or share
thereof, shall be absolutely null and void, unless the same shall
be freely made and executed in the presence of at least two
attesting witnesses after the allowance of such claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant for
the payment thereof. It would seem to be impossible to use
language more comprehensive than this. It embraces alike
legal and equitable assignments. It includes powers of attorney,
orders, or other authorities for receiving payment of any such
claim, or any part or share thereof. It strikes at every derivative interest, in whatever form acquired, and incapacitates every

Oct. 1878.]

SPOFFORD V. KIRK.

claimant upon the government from creating an interest in the
claim in any other than himself.
In United States v. Gillis (95 U. S. 407), we had occasion
to examine this act. We then concluded that it embraced
every claim against the United States, however arising, of whatever nature, and wherever and whenever presented. We had
not, however, before us the precise question which is here presented. That was the case of a suit by the assignee of a claim
in the Court of Claims. We held he could have no standing
there. We held also that such an assignee could not prosecute
the claim in any court, or before the Treasury Department,
against the government. We were not called upon to decide
whether such assignments were invalid as between the assignor
and the assignee. But if after the claim in this case was
allowed, and a warrant for its payment was issued in the claimant's name, as it must have been, he had gone to the treasury
for his money, it is clear that no assignment he might have
made, or order he might have given, before the allowance would
have stood in the way of his receiving the whole sum allowed.
The United States must have treated as a nullity any rights to
the claim asserted by others. It is hard to see how a transfer
of a debt can be of no force as between the transferee and the
debtor, and yet effective as between the creditor and his assignee to transmit an ownership of the debt, or create a lien
upon it. Yet if that might be,- and we do not propose now to
affirm or deny it, - the question remains, whether the act of Congress was not intended to render all claims against the government inalienable alike in law and in equity, for every purpose,
and between all parties. The intention of Congress must be
discovered in the act itself. It was entitled "An Act to prevent frauds upon the treasury of the United States." It may
be assumed, therefore, that such was its purpose. What the
frauds were against which it was intended to set up a guard,
and how they might be perpetrated, nothing in the statute
informs us. We can only infer from its provisions what the
frauds and mischiefs had been, or were apprehended, which led
to its enactment. One, probably, was the possible presentation
of a single claim by more than a single claimant, the original
and his assignee, thus raising the danger of paying the claim

SPOFFORD V. KIRK.

[Sup. Ct.

twice, or rendering necessary the investigation of the validity
of an alleged assignment. Another and greater danger was the
possible combination of interests and influences in the prosecution of claims which might have no real foundation, of which
the facts of the present case afford an illustration. Within
our knowledge there have been claims against the government,
interests in which have been assigned to numerous persons, and
thus an influence in support of the claims has been brought
into being which would not have existed had assignments been
impossible. We do not say that the passage of the act was induced by these considerations. It is enough that frauds or
wrongs upon the treasury were possible in either of these ways,
and it may be that Congress intended to close the door against
both. However that may be, the language of the act is too
sweeping and positive to justify us in giving it a limited construction. We cannot say, when the statute declares all transfers and assignments of the whole of a claim, or any part or
interest therein, and all orders, powers of attorney, or other
authority for receiving payment of the claim, or any part
thereof, shall be absolutely null and void, that they are only
partially null and void, that they are valid and effective as between the parties thereto, and only invalid when set up against
the government.
It follows that, in our opinion, the accepted orders under
which the appellant claims gave him no interest in the claim
of the drawer against the United States, -and no lien upon the
fund arising out of the claim. His bill was, therefore, rightly
dismissed.
.Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTicE FiLD did not sit in this case.

