OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
270 U. S.

Syllabus.

be judged as a whole. Looking at them as a whole we
see that the plaintiff was a good deal more than a mere
conduit for the Chile Exploration Company. It was its
brain or at least the efferent nerve without which that
company could not move. The plaintiff owned and by
indirection governed it, and was its continuing support,
by advances from time to time in the plaintiff's discretion.
There was some suggestion that there was only one business and therefore ought to be only one tax. But if the
one business could not be carried on without two corporations taking part in it, each must pay, by the plain
words of the Act. The case is not governed by McCoach
v. Minehill & Schuylkill Haven R. R. Co., 228 U. S. 295,
and United States v. Emery, Bird, Thayer Realty Co.,
237 U. S. 28. It is nearer to Von Baumbach v. Sargent
Land Co., 242 U. S. 503.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took nQ part in the decision
of this case.

SMITH v. McCULLOUGH

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 22.

Argued October 8, 1925.-Decided March 22, 1926.

1. Whatever is essential to federal jurisdiction must be alleged in
the complaint; otherwise the suit must be dismissed, unless the
defect in the complaint be cured by amendment. P. 459.
2. Where the jurisdiction depended on the existence of a dispute
over the construction of federal statutes, which was not properly
shown in the bill, but which was the principal controversy in several trials in which jurisdiction was assumed to exist by the courts
and both parties, and this appeared by the record-held that the
defect was amendable and would be treated as amended in this
Court. P. 459.

SMITH v. McCULLOUGH.
456

Counsel for Parties.

3. A judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the Dis,trict Court and remanding the case for further proceedings is interlocutory, and a party against whom it was rendered and who
did not acquiesce in it is not precluded by it from reopening the
questions so decided when the case is again appealed after a second trial. P. 461.
4. Where a Quapaw Indian, whose general power to alienate or lease
his allotment was restricted by Acts of Congress applying generally to his tribe, was permitted by a special Act to alienate,
subject to the supervision and approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, and made a mortgage, with such approval, and subsequently received a release and reconveyance-held that the
transaction did not rid him of the restrictions on the land, and
that the validity of a lease he afterwards made, without the Secretary's approval, was governed by the Acts first mentioned.
P. 462.
5. A Quapaw Indian, permitted by the Act of June 7, 1897, to lease
his allotment for mining purposes for ten years, made a lease for
that term with an added provision that the term continue thereafter so long as minerals could be produced with profit. Held
that the lease could not be sustained upon the ground that the
addition was severable from the lawful term. P. 463.
6. Where the allotee undertakes to negotiate a lease for a forbidden
term, he enters a field in which he must be regarded as without
authority or capacity, and the resulting lease is void. P. 465.
285 Fed. 698, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which, in a suit
to determine adverse claims based on conflicting mining
leases given by a Quapaw Indian, upheld the plaintiff's
lease and cancelled the defendants' leases to the extent
of the conflict. See also 243 Fed. 823.
Mr. Arthur S. Thompson for appellant.
Mr. Joseph C. Stone, with whom Messrs. A. C. Towne,
George J. Grayston, C. M. Grayston, Paul A. Ewert,
James Davenport, W. M. Jackson, and W. R. King were
on the briefs, for appellees.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

270 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This appeal brings under review the proceedings in a
much-litigated suit in equity brought to determine adverse claims based on conflicting mining leases given by
a Quapaw Indian of land which was part of his allotment.
The plaintiffs (appellees here) claimed under the first
lease, and the defendant (appellant here) under two
later leases, which taken together included the same land
as the first. The relief sought by the plaintiffs was full
recognition of their lease and cancelation of the others.
On the original hearing the District Court, following its
decisions in earlier cases, held that the plaintiffs' lease
contravened restrictions imposed by laws of Congress, in
that it was for a longer term than ten years, and therefore was void. Accordingly the bill was dismissed; but
the Circuit Court of Appeals disapproved that ruling,
reversed the decree and remanded the cause for ftirther
proceedings, 243 Fed. 823. On a subsequent hearing the
District Court recognized the plaintiffs' lease as valid for
a term of ten years and canceled the defendant's leases
to the extent of the conflict. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that decision, 285 Fed. 698; and the present
appeal is from the decree of affirmance.
The plaintiffs insist that this appeal cannot be entertained, although taken prior to the Act of February 13,
19 5, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, changing federal appellate
jurisdiction. But we think they misapprehend the situation.
The suit was not within any of the classes as to which
an appeal was denied by § 128 of the Judicial Code, as
existing before the change. Either the suit was one arising under the laws of Congress relating to the alienation
and leasing of Quapaw allotments, or there was an entire
absence of federal jurisdiction. In either event § 241 of

SMITH v. McCULLOUGH.
456

1 Opinion of the Court.

the Judicial Code, as existing before the change, permitted
an appeal to this Court from the final decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals. The only difference was that if
the suit was one arising under the laws of Congress relating to the alienation and leasing of such allotments
the rexamination by this Court would extend to the
merits; while if there was an absence of federal jurisdiction this Court could not consider the merits, but would
have to reverse the decrees of both courts below and remand the cause to the District Court with a direction
to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction. Shoshone
Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505, 514; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 178 U. S. 239, 244.
The Act of 1925 expressly left all appeals which were
then pending in this Court to be disposed of under the
old law.
It therefore is necessary at the outset to determine
whether this suit was one arising under the legislation
relating to Quapaw allotments or was one where there was
an absence of federal jurisdiction. The established rule
is that a plaintiff suing in a federil court must show in
his pleading, affirmatively and distinctly, the existence of
whatever is essential to federal jurisdiction; and, if he
does not do so, the court, on having the defect called to its
attention or on discovering the same, must dismiss the
case, unless the defect be corrected by amendment. Norton v. Larney, 266 U. S. 511.
Here the bill disclosed that the lease under which the
plaintiffs were claiming, and which they sought to have
recognized, was based on the laws of Congress relating to
the right of Quapaw allottees to alienate and lease their
lands, and that the defendant was. claiming adversely
under later leases from the same lessor. It apparently was
intended to show that the suit was one arising under
those laws; but it fell short of showing that a real dispute
over their construction and application was involved.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

See Schulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S. 561, 569; Barnett
v. Kunkel, 264 U. S. 16, 19-20. In fact, as appears elsewhere in the record, that was the principal matter in dispute, and the outcome depended on its solution. The
defendant's first step in the suit was to challenge the
plaintiffs' right to relief by a motion to dismiss on the
ground that under those laws, rightly construed and applied, the plaintiffs' lease was invalid. That challenge was
sustained by the District Court, but was overruled by the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the first appeal. A simple
amendment of the bill, conforming its jurisdictional allegations to the fact thus brought into the record, would
have corrected the defect and put in affirmative ahd
definite form what apparently was intended in the beginning. Had the defect been called to the court's attention, leave to make the amendment could and doubtless would have been granted. Both parties proceeded
as if the jurisdictional showing was sufficient; and both
courts below dealt with the suit as one arising under the:
laws before named and proceeded to its determination
accordingly. The suit was begun in 1916; the parties had
two hearings in each of the courts below; and the merits
were exhaustively presented. In these circumstances to
amend the bill now to conform to the jurisdictional fact
indisputably shown elsewhere in the record will not subject either party to any prejudice or disadvantage, but
will subserve the real interests of both. This Court has
power to allow amendments of this character. Rev. Stat.
§ 954; Norton v. Larney, supra; Realty Holding Co. v.
Donaldson, 268 U. S. 398, and the propriety of exercising
it in this instance is obvious. We therefore shall treat
the bill as amended, by our leave, to show the jurisdictional fact conformably to other parts of the record. With
that fact brought into the bill, there can be no doubt
that there was federal jurisdiction. Hopkins v. Walker,
244 U. S. 486; Norton v. Larney, supra.

SMITH v. McCULLOUGH.
456

461

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs insist that, as the defendant did not
appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
on the first appeal, he is now precluded from questioning
what was decided then. But the law and settled practice are otherwise. That decree was not final'but only
interlocutory, and so was not appealable. Nor did the
defendant acquiesce in it. On the contrary, he sought to
have it reconsidered by the Circuit Court of Appeals on
a timely petition for rehearing, and again on the second
appeal to that court. He therefore is entitled to ask,
as he does in his.assignments of error, that it be reexamined on this appeal. United States v. Beatty, 232 U. S.
463, 466; Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. v. Wolf Brothers &
Co., 240 U. S. 251, 258.
We come then to the merits, which center about the
validity of the plaintiffs' lease.
The lessor was a Quapaw Indian and under the guardianship of the United States. The land for which the
conflicting mining leases were given was part of the-allotment made to him in the distribution of the lands 'of his
tribe. His title rested on a patent issued to him in 1896
pursuant to the Act of March 2, 1895, c' 188, 28 Stat.
907, which provided that the allotments should be inalienable for a period of 25 years from the' date of the
patents. The Act of June 7, 1897, c. 3, 30 Stat. 72,
modified that restriction to the extent of authorizing the
allottees "to lease their lands, or any part thereof, for a
term not exceeding three years for farming of grazing
purposes, or ten years for mining or business purposes ";
and the Act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504, 34 Stat. 344, further
modified the restriction to the extent of specially authorizing this allottee to alienate not exceeding 120 acres of
his allotment, subject to the supervision and approval of
the Secretary of the Interior.
On July 14, 1906, the allottee, with the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior, conveyed 120 acres of his allot-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

ment to E. V. Kellett by a deed which described itself as
a "mortgage" and contained a declaration that it was
made to secure the payment of a promissory note given
to Kellett by the allottee and was to be null and void if
the note was duly paid. In due course the note was paid,
and on June 20, 1908, the land was reconveyed to the
allottee by a deed which described itself as a "release of
mortgage" and contained an acknowledgment of such
payment.
The 120 acres thus conveyed to Kellett and reconveyed
to the allottee is the land for which the allottee gave the
mining leases in question here. They were given in 1912
and 1913, but were not approved by the Secretary of the
Interior. The plaintiffs' lease was for a teim exceeding

ten years, while the defendant's leases were limited to a
ten-year term.
The evidence at the final hearing took a wide range,
but in no wise tended to show either that the defendant
was precluded from assailing the plaintiffs' lease or that.
the plaintiffs were entitled to any equitable relief if their
lease was originally invalid. The defendant took his
leases with notice of the plaintiffs' lease, but had been
proceeding with operations under his for a year or two
before any effort was made to take possession or begin
operations under the plaintiffs'.
The first question on the merits is, whether the Act of
1906 and the conveyance made to Kellett with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior took the land
entirely out of the prior restrictions on its alienation, so
that when that conveyance had served its purpose and
the reconveyance to the allottee was made he was free
to lease the land, and even to sell it, as he saw fit. The
plaintiffs contend that the answer should be in the af-

firmative. Both courts below held the other way, and
we think they were right. The Act of 1906 did not
accord to the allottee an unqualified.right of alienation,

SMITH v. McCULLOUGH.
456

Opinion of the Court.

but a right which was to be exercised only under the
supervision and with the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior. Nor was the conveyance to Kellett an absolute
alienation. In terms and effect it was a conditional conveyance, called a mortgage, and the contingency which
might have converted it into an absolute alienation never
happened. The Secretary's approval was of that particular conveyance and of course was measured by its
terms and purpose. When the condition on which the
conveyance was to be null and void was performed and
the reconveyance was made the situation was essentially
the same as if there had been no conveyance. In substance a lien had been created with the Secretary's approval and then extinguished, thus leaving the land
subject to the restrictions.
This brings us to the defendant's contention that the
plaintiffs' lease was void because given for a term exceeding ten years. We have seen that the District Court
originally so held, in keeping with its decisions in prior
cases, and that the Circuit Court of Appeals, while regarding the lease as given for a term exceeding ten years,
held it good for that period and invalid as to the excess.
To determine this conflict involves a consideration of the
purpose and effect of the restrictive provisions in the
Acts of 1895 and 1897 and an examination of the terms
of the lease.
The Act of 1895 declared broadly that the allotments
should be inalienable for 25 years from the date of the
patents, and the Act of 1897 relaxed that restriction to
the extent only of permitting the allottees to lease not exceeding a term of three years for farming or grazing purposes, or ten years for mining or business purposes. Thus
it was beyond the power of any allottee, on his own
volition, to grant any interest in his allotment during
the 25-year period otherwise than by a lease permitted

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

by the Act of 1897. United States v. Noble, 237 U. S.
74, 80. The plaintiffs' lease-it originally ran to one
Hopper and was assigned by him to them-was given
during that period and was for mining purposes. The
consideration recited was one dollar in hand paid and the
lessee's covenants to begin operations within 90 days or
pay a stated rent, to conduct the operations with diligence and to pay royalties of five per cent. of the market
value of the minerals removed. The term of the lease
w~as stated to be "ten years" from its date, but with the
qualification that, if minerals were found in paying quantities, "the privilege of operating" under the agreed terms
should "continue so long as" minerals could be produced in such quantities after the expiration of the ten
years, and that, if operations were not begun within 90
days, the lessee should pay, in lieu of such work, five cents
an acre yearly for each. acre in the lease "so long as"
he desired "to operate and hold the same." The parties
rightly agree, as the courts below did, that these provisions, if taken together, show that the lease was not limited
to a term of ten years but was to continue after that
period so long as minerals could be produced with profit.
The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that the provisions just described were so far independent and severable that the one declaring that the term was to be ten
years should be given effect and those declaring that it
was to continue beyond that period should be rejected
as invalid, and the lease sustained for a ten-year term.
We think that conclusion overlooks the nature and purpose of the restiotions in the Acts of 1895 and 1897. In
adopting the restrictions Congress was not imposing restraints on a class of persons who were sui juris, but on
Indians who were being conducted from a state of dependent wardship to one of full emancipation and needed
to be safeguarded against their own improvidence during
the period of transition. The purpose of the restrictions

SMITH v. McCULLOUGH.
456

465

Opinion of the Court.

was to give the needed protection, and they should be
construed in keeping with that purpose. The permission
to give short leases was in the nature of an exception
to the comprehensive restraint already imposed and hardly
could have been intended to give any effect or recognition to leases negotiated and made in disregard of that
limited permission. A lease not within that permission
evidently was intended to be left where it was beforewithin the general prohibition and invalid. Otherwise the
allottees would be exposed to much of the evil intended to
be excluded; for of course many intending lessees would
be disposed to obtain leases for long terms if no other risk
was run than that 6f having their rights held down to the
maximum admissible term, if the allottee or the United
States should discover the situation and take proceedings
to correct it. Such a view would almost certainly result
in beclouding the title of the allottees and in bringing
the land into needless litigation to their detriment. We
think the better view is that where an allottee undertakes to negotiate a lease for a forbidden term he enters
a field in which he must be regarded as without capacity
or authority to negotiate or act and that the resulting
lease is void. See Taylor v. Parker,235 U. S. 42; Sage v.
Hampe, 235 U. S. 99, 105.
This conclusion 'makes it unnecessary to consider other
objections urged against the plaintiffs' lease. It follows
that the first decree of the District Court was right and
the subsequent decrees were wrong.
Decree reversed.
100569°-26----30

