390

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

270 U. S.

federal question raised by the bill of complaint in that
suit. The power of the State and its agencies over municipal corporations within its territory is not restrained
by the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. Trenton
v. New Jersey, 262 U. S. 182; and see Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil Co., 250 U. S. 394. The decree in that case
must therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to dismiss the plaintiff's bh.
No. 99 reversed and remanded.
Nos. 95, 96, 97, 98 and 100 affirmed.
ALEXANDER MILBURN COMPANY v. DAVISBOURNONVILLE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 107.

Argued January 11, 12, 1926.-Decided March 8, 1926.

1. Where a patent application fully and adequately disclosed, but
did not claim, the thing patented to a later applicant alleging a later
date of invention, the later applicant was not the "first inventor"
within Rev. Stats. § 4920. P. 399.
2. As regards " reduction to practice," a description that would bar
a patent if printed in a periodical or in an issued patent is equally
effective in an application. P. 401.
1 Fed. (2d) 227, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court (297 Fed.
846) enjoining an alleged infringement of plaintiff's
patent.

Mr. James A. Watson, for petitioner.
The court below erred in assuming that under the
defense of R. S. 4920 it was necessary to show that Clifford was the "first inventor," whereas the statute simply
requires proof that Whitford "was not the original and

MILBURN CO. v. DAVIS
390

ETC.

CO.

Argument for Petitioner.

first inventor." No inter partes question of priority of
invention is involved in this defense. It also erred in
overlooking the presumption of law that what Clifford
disclosed and did not claim was old and known when he
filed his application. Millett & Reed v. Duell, 18 App.
D. C. 186; Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354. It erred
further in overlooking the inequity of the grant.to Whitford of a monopoly which would deprive Clifford of the
right to use important features of his own device and
deprive the public of the right to use what was disclosed
in Clifford's prior application and which was either known
to Clifford to be old, or, if invented by Clifford, deliberately dedicated to the public. There are many cases
in which this Court and the lower courts have held that
the first inventor, having reduced his'invention to practice, may abandon or dedicate his invention to the public,
by failure to claim, or for other reasons, but we have
found no case in which such abandonment or dedication
has been held to entitle a later inventor to a patent for
the invention. Keystone.Bridge Co. v. Phoenix Iron Co.,
95 U. S. 274; Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350; Eames v.
Andrews, 122 U. S. 40; Deering v. Winona Harvester
Works, 155 U. S. 286; McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S.
419. Assuming that Clifford was the inventor of the
thing he failed to claim, he made it public property as
soon as the patent issued and every day that passed thereafter added to the strength of the public right. Mahn v.
Harwood, 112 U. S.354.
The right of the public to use the invention was tentative during the period of two years from the date of the
Clifford patent, as during this period Clifford might have
filed an application for a reissue, or a divisional application, claiming the invention, and the application would
have related back to the date of filing the original application. Chapman v. Wintroath, 252 U. S. 126; Smith &
Griggs Mfg. Co. v. Sprague, 123 U. S. 249; Millett &

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioner.

270 U. S.

Reed v. Duell, 18 App. D. C. 186; Ex parte Grosslin, 97
0. G. 2977. The issuance of such a patent to Clifford,
after interference with Whitford, would have invalidated
the Whitford claims, as, obviously, there cannot be two
monopolies of the same thing. The Whitford patent was
allowed through oversight of the Patent Office and contrary to established practice as pointed out in the Patent
Office Rules. Clifford perfected his invention when he
filed his application.
The application was a constructive reduction to practice--of what it disclosed-before Whitford conceived.
Chapman v. Wintroath, supra; Smith & Griggs Mfg. Co.
v..Sprague, supra; Von Recklinghausen v. Dempster, 34
App. D. C. 474.
Clifford had an inchoate right to claim the invention
or to re-claim it up to the instant the public came into full
possession. Roberts v. Ryer, 91 U. S. 150; Pope Mfg.
Co. v. Gommully Mfg. Co., 144 U. S. 224; Naceskid
Service Chain Co. v. Perdue, 1 Fed. (2d) 924; Diamond
Drill Mch. Co. v. Kelly Bros., 120 Fed. 295; Westinghouse v. Chartiers Val. Gas Co., 43 Fed. 582; Barnes
Automatic Sprinkler Co. v. Walworth Mfg. Co., 51 Fed.
88, 60 Fed. 605; Farmers' Handy Wagon Co. v. Beaver
Silo & Box Mfg. Co., 236 Fed. 731; Hamilton Beach
Mfg. Co. v. Geirer Co., 230 Fed. 430; Camp Bros. & Co.
v. Portable Wagon Dump & E. Co., 251 Fed. 603; Willard
v. Union Tool Co., 253 Fed. 48.
The decisions of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia are of great importance as they control the
interpretation of the law in the Patent Office. See Mi/lett & Reed v. Duell, 18 App. D. C. 186.
The doctrine announced by the court below is in conflict with the uniform practice in the Patent Office during
the last 50 years. United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169;
Baltzell v. Mitchell, 3 Fed. (2d) 428; Ex parte Wright,
1870 C. D. 60; Bell v. Gray, 15 0. G. 776; Ex parte Bland,

MILBURN CO. v. DAVIS
390

ETC.

CO.

Argument for Respondent.

16 0. G. 47. It appears that, shortly after the Bland
decision, the practice of declaring an interference between
a pending application claiming and a patent disclosing
but not claiming an invention was discontinued. The
practice of rejecting an application claiming upon a patent
disclosing but not claiming an invention was continued
and has been the uniform practice of the Patent Office
to the present time. Instead of declaring an interference and determining the question of priority inter partes,
present Patent Office Rule 75 permits the applicant to
overcome such a patent by making ." oath to facts showing a completion of the invention in this country before
the filing of the applicati6n on which the domestic
patent issued." This rule is at present in force and no
change has been made in it during the past twenty-seven
years.
Under the practice of the Patent Office, for at least
fifty years, the application for the Whitford patent should
have been rejected upon the Clifford patent which was
issued while the Whitford application was pending and
which admittedly disclosed, without claiming, the invention claimed by Whitford. The allowance of the Whitford patent was an oversight.
Mr. D. S. Edmonds, with whom Messrs. R. Morton
Adams, J. F. Brandenburg, and William H. Davis were
on the brief, for respondent.
There are two ways in which an earlier filed patent can
be used to invalidate a later one, by establishing prior
knowledge, or by establishing prior invention. Our
patent system, in defining the conditions under which an
inventor is entitled to a patent, adopts the fundamental
view that the invention must not have been known before,
and adds that it will be deemed known if it has been
printed in a publication or patented in this or a foreign
country, but not if it has only been used in a foreign

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

270 U. S.

country (§ 4923, R. S.). The conditions giving rise to
the right to a patent are defined by § 4886, R. S., and the
procedural requirements which must be complied with in
procuring the grant after the right has arisen are defined
in §§ 4888 to 4893, R. S., inclusive. Broadly stated, any
failure to comply with the conditions of § 4886 prevents
the right to a patent from arising, and is a defense to a
suit on the patent; and any failure to comply with the
procedural requirements of §§ 4888 to 4893, inclusive,
invalidates the grant because of a defect in the procedure.
The date of conception by an inventor becomes im.
portant only when someone else asserts a right to a patent
for the same invention and it is necessary to determine
which was first. There may be two persbns who are
original inventors within the meaning of § 4886, but they
cannot both be first inventors. If each asserts his right to
a patent, a contest of priority arises. The statute provides for such a contest in the Patent Office under § 4904,
R. S., and in the courts under § 4918, R. S.
The application is not a printed publication. Nor is
it a patent. It indicates nothing as to the completeness
of the disclosure of the patent in suit or as to whether
the invention in suit was in public use or on sale or
abandoned. It therefore has no bearing on the matters
set out in the first, third, and fifth clauses of § 4920. It
can have a bearing only on the defenses of the second
and fourth clauses. The second clause, in its literal wording, ia directed to a situation where the patentee secured
a patent for an invention which had been conceived at
an earlier date by another who was using diligence in
perfecting it, and it has been held to recognize the right
of an inventor, in a contest of priority, to go back to
his date of conception. Reed v. Cutter [1841], 1 Story,
590. It is this defense which is pleaded in the case at
bar; and Clifford is set up as the prior inventor. But,
since the issue on the conflict of law involves more than

MILBURN CO. v. DAVIS
390

ETC.

CO.

395

Argument for Respondent.

this, it is necessary to consider the fourth clause, which
holds that, if the prior knowledge be shown by the fact
of prior invention by another, it must be a completed
invention actually reduced to practice and available to
the public. The mere fact of prior invention is not
enough, as it is well settled that a concealed, forgotten,
or abandoned invention is not a bar to a patent to a subsequent inventor. Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477; Mason
v. Hepburn, 13 App. D. C. 86.
A patent application does not establish prior invention
or priority of right unless the subject matter disclosed
is claimed. It is true that the fact of prior invention may
be used to invalidate if the prior invention was in fact
reduced to practice so that it was actually available to the
public. But in such case it becomes a part of the public
knowledge, and may be proved as such, and the assertion
of a right to a patent has no bearing.
Briefly stated, the history, substance, and application
of the doctrine of constructive reduction to practice are
as follows:
1. From the point of view of the patent system, an
invention is not complete until the inventor has taken
it out of the realm of speculation into that of fact; until
he has actually built the machine which he is supposed to
have invented so that it has a real existence and is available to the public.
2. The patent statutes (§4886) do not require this
actual reduction to practice if a complete allowable application for a patent on the invention is filed. This act
has been called. a "constructive reduction to practice."
3. It is essential that the patentee claim his invention.
4. The doctrine has no application to unclaimed subject-matter, and has been evolved solely for the benefit
of one asserting a right to a patent. When relied upon
by the defendant in a suit for infringement, it may be
used only insofar as the subject-matter is claimed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

270 U. S.

Reduction to practice consists of making and using the
invention so that it has a physical existence. This does
not mean the mere making of sketches or description.
There must be more than this. The invention must be
taken out of the realm of speculation into that of reality.
Reed v. Cutter, 1 Story 590; Agawam v. Jordan, 7 Wall.
583; Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516; Draper v.
Potomska Mills Corp., 3 Ban. & A. 214; Automatic v.
Pneumatic, 166 Fed. 288; Warren Bros. Co. v. Owosso,
166 Fed. 309; Sydeman v. Thoma, 32 App. D. C. 362.
Conception may be evidenced by sketches or description showing a complete idea of means. But not so with
reduction to practice. Lyman Co. v. Lalor, 12 Blatch.
303; Howes v. McNeal, 15 Blatch. 103; Porterv. Louden,
7 App. D. C. 64; Mason v. Hepburn, 13 App. D. C. 86,
and cases cited; Sydeman v. Thoma, 32 App. D. C. 362.
In the early years of our patent system reduction to
practice could be proved only by a showing that there was
an actual successful practice of the invention. And it
was held that such a reduction to practice was necessary
before any right to a patent arose. Reed v. Cutter,
1 Story 590; Washburn v. Gould, 3 Story 122; Cahoon v.
Ring, 1 Cliff. 592; Whiteley v. Swayne; 7 Wall. 685;
Agawam v. Jordan, 7 Wall. 583; Seymour v. Osborne, 11
Wall. 516; Lyman v. Lalor, 12 Blatch. 303; Herring v.
Nelson, 14 Blatch. 293; Howes v. McNeal, 15 Blatch. 103.
Later cases held, however, that, where one is asserting
his right to a patent, the statutes do not require an actual
reduction to practice if the patent is allowed. Wheeler
v. Clipper, 10 Blatch. 181; Telephone Cases, 126 U. S..1;
Automatic v. Pneumatic, 166 Fed. 288. It is essential
that the application be not only allowable, but be allowed.
Abandoned or rejected applications are not considered
evidence of prior invention. Corn Planter Patent, 23
Wall. 181; Lyman v. Lalor, 12 Blatch. 303; Fire Extinguisher Co. v. Philadelphia, 1 Ban. & A. 177; Herring v.
Nelson, 14 Blatch. 293; Webster v. Sanford, 1888 C. D. 92.

MILBURN CO. v. DAVIS
390

ETC.

CO.

Argument for Respondent.

Section 4888, R. S., requires the applicant to "particularly point out and distinctly claim the part, improvement or combination which he claims as his invention or
discovery." Section 4892 requires him to "make oath
that he does verily believe himself to be the original and
first inventor or discoverer of the . . . improvement
for which he solicits a patent." The time at which the
claim is made does not affect this, as it may be made by
amendment, in a divisional application, or by reissue.
Smith & Griggs Co. v. Sprague, 123 U. S. 249; Austin v.
Johnson, 18 App. D. C. 83; Ex parte Waterman, C. D.
235; Hop!elt v. Read, C. D. 319; Duryea & White v.
Rice, 28 App. D. C. 423; Von Recklinghausen v. Dempster,
34 App. D. C. 474; Chapman v. Wintroath, 252 U. S.
126. The original disclosure cannot be materially changed.
The statement of invention and the claims may be
changed; but when an applicant presents a claim for
matter originally shown or described, but not substantially embraced in the statement of invention or claim .
originally presented, he is required to file a supplemental
oath to the effect that the subject-matter of the proposed
amendment was part of his invention and was invented
before he filed his original application. The purpose, of
the disclosure is to make the invention so clear that no further invention is necessary to put it into practice, so that,
upon issuance of the patent, the public will be as fully
aware of the invention as if it actually saw and used it.
It is essential that this requirement be complied with
before allowance, and patents are held invalid for noncompliance. Wood v. Underhill, 5 How. 1; Tannage Co.
v. Zahn, 66 Fed. 986; Natl. Chemical Co. v. Swift & Co.,
100 Fed. 451; Featheredge Rubber Co. v. Miller Rubber
Co., 259 Fed. 565. To determine this, the Patent Office
examines the part claimed to determine its operability.
There is no occasion to consider any part which is not
claimed or which is not essential to the part claimed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

270 U. S.

Patents which are inoperative in unclaimed and nonessential features are not -held invalid for that reason.
Keystone Foundry Co. v. Fastpress Co., 263 Fed. 99;
Pickering v. McCullough, 194 U. S. 319; Dalton Adding
Mch. Co. v. Rockford Mch. Co., 253 Fed. 187, aff. 267
Fed. 422; ManhattanBook Co. v. Fuller Co., 204 Fed. 286.
The doctrine of "constructive reduction to practice"
was: evolved, therefore, only to assist one asserting: in a'
formal way a right to a patent, and it had nothing to do
with proving prior invention as a defense. The fact that
the applicant is actively engaged in securing a patent on
an invention and at the same time is disclosing matter
which he does not claim, seems to us to be evidence that
the unclaimed matter was not his invention. Electric Co.
v. Westinghouse Co., 171 Fed. 83.
The unclaimed disclosure in a patent application does
not constitute prior knowledge within the meaning of
§ 4886 as of the date of filing of the application. Section
4886 provides that if a device is in use publicly it is within
the knowledge of the art, or if it is described in a printed
publication or in a patent it will be deemed to be within
the knowledge of the art. But it has always been held
that sketches, drawings or description, regardless of how
complete they may be, and regardless of the fact that
they are known to several people, do not constitute
knowledge within the meaning of § 4886 unless they are
published. Searls v. Bouton, 12 Fed. 140; Stitt v. Eastern R. Co., 22 Fed. 649; Judson v. Bradford, 3 Ban. & A.
539; Westinghouse v. General Elec. Co., 199 Fed. 907, aff.
207 Fed. 75; De Kando v. Armstrong, 37 App. D. C. 314;
Robinson, Vol. I, page 310. To regard the subject-matter
disclosed but not claimed in an application as part of the
prior art as of the date of filing of that application is, we
think, so far in conflict with the practical purpose of the
patent law and so inconsistent with all the other rules
and procedures that have grown up in the practical carrying out of that purpose that it must be rejected.

MILBURN CO. v. DAVIS
390

Opinion of the Court.

CO.

ETC.

399

-

Mr. JUSTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Coui C.

This is a suit for the infringement of the plaintiff's
patent for an improvement in welding and cutting apparatus alleged to have been the inventioi of one Whitford. The suit embraced other matters but this is the
only one material here. The defense is that Whitford
was not the first inventor of the thing patented, and
the answer gives notice that to prove the invalidity of the
patent evideiice will be offered that one Clifford invented
the thing, his patent being referred to and identified.
The application for the plaintiff's patent was filed on
March 4, 1911, and the patent was issued June 4, 1912.
There was no evidence carrying Whitford's invention further back, Clifford's application was filed on January
31, 1911, before Whitford's, and his patent was issued on
February 6, 1912. It is not disputed that this application gave a complete and adequate description of the
thing patented to Whitford, but it did not claim it. The.
District Court gave the plaintiff a decree, holding that,.
while Clifford might have added this claim to his application, yet as he did not, he was not a prior inventor,
297 Fed. Rep. 846. The decree was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 1 Fed. (2d) 227. There is a conflict
between this decision and those of other Circuit Courts
of Appeals, especially the sixth. Lemley v. DobsonEvans Co., 243 Fed. 391. Naceskid Service Chain Co.
v. Perdue, 1 Fed..(2d) 924. Therefore a writ of certiorari
was granted by this Court. 266 U. S. 596.
The patent law authorizes a person who has invented
an improvement like the present, 'not known or used by
others in this country, before his invention,' &c., to obtain
a patent for it. Rev. Sts. § 4886, amended, March 3,
1897, c. 391, § 1, 29 Stat. 692. Among the defences to a
suit for infringement the fourth specified by the statute
is that the patentee 'was not the original and first in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

ventor or discoverer of any material and substantial part
of the thing patented.' Rev. Sts. § 4920, amended, March
3, 1897, c. 391, § 2, 29 Stat. 692. Taking these words in
their natural sense as they would be read by the common
man, obviously one is not the first inventor if, as was
the case here, somebody else has made a complete and
adequate description of the thing claimed before the
earliest moment to which the alleged inventor can carry
his invention back. But the words cannot be taken quite
so simply. In view of the gain to the public that the
patent laws mean to secure we assume for purposes of decision that it would have been no bar to Whitford's patent
if Clifford had written out his prior description and kept
it in his portfolio uncommunicated to anyone. More
than that, since the decision in the case of The Cornplanter
Patent, 23 Wall. 181, it is said, at all events for many
years, the Patent Office has made no search among abandoned patent applications, and by the words of the statute
a previous foreign invention does not invalidate a patent
granted here if it has not been patented or described in
a printed publication. Rev. Sts. § 4923. See Westinghouse Machine Co. v. General Electric Co., 207 Fed. 75.
These analogies prevailed in the minds of the Courts
below.
On the other hand, publication in a periodical is a bar.
This as it seems to us is more than an arbrtrary enactment,
and illustrates, as does the rule concerning previous public
use, the principle that, subject to the exceptions mentioned, one really must be the first inventor in order to
be entitled to a patent. Coffin v. Ogden, 18 Wall. 120.
We understand the Circuit Court of Appeals to admit that
if Whitford had not applied for his patent until after the
issue to Clifford, the disclosure by the latter would have
had the same effect as the publication of the same words
in a periodical, although not made the basis of a claim.
1 Fed. (2d) 233. The invention is made public property

MILBURN CO. v. DAVIS EC. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

390

as much in the one case as in the other. But if this be
true, as we think that it is, it seems to us that a sound
distinction cannot be taken between that case and a
patent applied for before but not granted until after a
second patent is sought. The delays of the patent office
ought not to cut down the effect of what has been done.
The description shows that Whitford was not the first
inventor. Clifford had done all that he could do to make
his description public. He had taken steps that would
make it public as soon at the Patent Office did its work,
although, of course, amendments might be required of
him before the end could be reached. We see no reason
in the words or policy of the law for allowing Whitford
to profit by the delay and make himself out to be the
first inventor when he was not so in fact, when Clifford
had §hown knowledge inconsistent with the allowance of
Whitford's claim, [Webster] Loom Co. v. Higgins, 105
U. S. 580, and when otherwise the publication of his
patent would abandon the thing described to the public
unless it already was old. McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U.
S. 419, 424. Underwood v. Gerber, 149 U. S. 224, 230.
The question is not whether Clifford showed himself
by the description to be the first inventor. By putting it
in that form it is comparatively easy to take the next'step
and say that he is not an inventor in the sense of the
statute unless he makes a claim. The question is whether
Clifford's disclosure made it impossible for Whitford to
claim the invention at a later date. The disclosure would
have had the same effect as at present if Clifford had
added to his description a statement that he did not claim
the thing described because he abandoned it or because
he believed it to be old. It is not necessary to show who
did invent the thing in order to show that Whitford did
not.
' It is said that without a claim the thing described is
not reduced to practice. But this seems to us to rest on
100569"-2---26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U.S.

a false theory helped out by the fiction that by a claim
it is reduced to practice. A new application and a claim
may be based on the original description within two years,
and the original priority established notwithstanding intervening claims. Chapman v. Wintroath, 252 U. S. 126,
137. A description that would bar a patent if printed in
a periodical or in an issued patent is equally effective in
an application so far as reduction to practice goes.
As to the analogies relied upon below, the disregard of
abandoned patent applications, however explained, cannot be taken to establish a principle beyond the rule as
actually applied. As an empirical rule it no doubt is
convenient if not necessary to the Patent Office, and we
are not disposed to disturb it, although we infer that
originally the practice of the Office was differnt. The
policy of the statute as to foreign inventions obviously
stands on its own footing and cannot be applied to domestic affairs. The fundamental rule we repeat is that
the patentee must be the first inventor. The qualifications in aid of a wish to encourage improvements or to
avoid laborious investigations do rfot prevent the rule
from applying here.
Decree reversed.
WEAVER v. PALMER BROTHERS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No.

510. Argued December 11, 1925.-Decided March 8, 1926.

1. Legislative determinations are entitled to great weight; but it is
always open to interested parties to show that the legislature has
transgressed the limits of its power. P. 410.
2. Invalidity of a legislative act may be shown by things that may
be judicially noticed, or by facts established by evidence, the burden
being on the attacking party to establish the invalidating facts.

P. 410.

