.COLE v. NORBORNE DRAINAGE DIST.

45

Syllabus.

44

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE 'TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This ease is quite like that in No. 24, Original, just decided. It differs, in that here the indictment which was
removed from the Circuit Court of -arford County,
Maryland, to the District Court of the United States for
Maryland was an indictment against E. Franklin Ely for
perjury, in the inquiry made by the coroner into the circumstances of the death of Wenger, it being charged that
when it was material whether he had seen Lawrence
Wenger at the time he (Ely), as a government officer, lay
concealed and hidden and watched the bringing of the
still, he falsely stated he had not seen Wenger. In all
other respects the proceedings were quite like those in
the case just decided, and on the principles laid down in
that case we must hold that there was no ground for removing the prosecution of Ely for perjury, and that the
mandamus to require the remanding of the removal
should be made absolute.
CHARLES D. COLE, MARY COLE, HERMAN NOELKER ET -AL. v. NORBORNE LAND DRAINAGE
DISTRICT OF CARROLL COUNTY, MISSOURI,

H. H. FRANKLIN, L. WILLIAMS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 152.

Argued January 20, 1926.-Decided February 1, 1926.

A state law (Ls. Mo. 1913) providing that establishment of a drainage district, with consequent liability for assessments, shall depend
on the vote of the owners of the majority of the acreage included,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

lut permitting :n estal~Iished district to be extended by court
proceedings to adjoining lands that, will be benefited by the proposed reclamation, does not violate the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment in not allowing the owners of such
adjoining lands the right to vote on the inclusion of their property.
Aflirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a bill brought to restrain the collection of drainage assessments and entry upon the plaintiffs' land in pursuance of
a drainage plan.

Messrs. Cyrus Crane and M. J. Henderson, for appellants.
Messrs. William A. Franken and S. J. Jones, with whom
Messrs. Grover C. Jones, Sam Withers and Scott R. Timmons were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is ,a bill to restrain the collection of a tax and entry
upon the plaintiffs' lands in pursuance of a plan of drainage established in the mode provided by the laws of Missouri. The grounds on which relief is sought are that
ยง 40 of the Drainage Laws of 1913, under which the plaintiffs' lands were brought into the drainage district, is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, and that the inclusion of their lands was an arbitrary exercise of power
for the purpose of making the plaintiffs pay for benefits
that they did not share. The District Court found that
there was no arbitrary exercise of power, but only a decision upon disputable questions of benefit with regard
to land all of which was Missouri bottom land, similar
in condition in everything but degree. It upheld the inclusion of the plaintiffs' land. In view of the constitutional question raised the plaintiffs appealed directly to
this Court.

COLE v. NORBORNE DRAINAGE DIST.
45

47

Opinion of the Court.

Under the laws of ,the State a drainage district was
incorporated which originally contained, it is said, 14,400
acres. In a later year, upon petition of the supervisors
of the district, the boundaries were enlarged in due statutory form so as to take in nearly 24,000 acres more of
adjoining land, including that now concerned. It is not
disputed that the original district was lawful in all respects. In general there can be no doubt that a State has
power to add more land, that shares the benefit of a
scheme, to the lawfully constituted district that has to
pay for it, and to do so against the will of the owner.
Houck v. Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254,
262. Squaw Creek DrainageDistrict v. Turney, 235 Mo..
80. Mudd v. St. Francis DrainageDistrict, 117 Ark. 30.
Faithorn v. Thompson, 242 Ill. 508. But it is objected
that as in this case the original district was formed on
the petition of the 'owners of a majority of the acreage'
in contiguous lands, and as, under the statute, the concurrence of the owners of a majority of the acreage was necessary, there is an unconstitutional discrimination in not
leaving it to a similar majority to determine whether the
new land shall come in. It seems strange if the power
of the legislature to add to a lawfully existing district depends on how that district was formed many years before.
But it is enough to repeat the answer of the appellees.
The original incorporators take the risk of a plan and
agree to pay for it while as yet they do not know exactly
what the plan will be or what the benefits. If after the
plan is made and started it becomes obvious that other
contiguous land will be benefited, it is just that such
land should help to pay the bills. But only an Eighteenth
Century faith in human nature could expect that the
owners would vote to come in and pay their shares when
they wohld get the same benefit if they stayed out. The
discrimination is justified by the change in position at
the later time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

As to the supposed sinister purpose of those who
brought the plaintiffs in, no evidence was given to prove
it. That the plantiffs' land would be benefited has been
found by the Circuit Court of Carroll County, Missouri,
which made the order, and by the District Court below.
We see no reason in the evidence for not accepting their
findings. There is another objection to inquiring further.
By the law of Missouri the decree of the Circuit Court
is final with regard to the territorial extent of the district.
The bill further states that the plantiffs have sought redress in the courts of the State without avail. The defendants plead that the plaintiffs sued in a State court
to cancel the assessments upon them and to annul the
judgment of the Circuit Court; that thereupon the defemlants :pplied to the Supreme Court for a writ of prohibition, and that the court made the prohibition absolute, upholding the constitutionality of the law. State,
ei; rel. Norborne La)d Drainage District v. Hughes, 294
Mo. 1. Tho defenlants urge these facts to show that the
plaintiffs had an a(le(luate reme(ly at law by bringing
either the judgment of the Circuit Court or that of the
Supreme Court here. It is hard to see why these decisions
do not make the question sought to be opened here res
judicata, although not so pleade(l. But in any event we
see no ground for disturbing the decree below. The District Court rightly held that the plaintiffs IIellwig and
Summers must fail for the additional reason that the
assessments against them were less than the jurisdictional
amount, but this is not very important as on the merits
the bill must be dismii.sed.
Decree affirmed.

