466

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
BOONE.
CERTIORARI TO THE ST. LOUIS COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 203.

Argued January 29, 1926.-Decided March 22, 1926.

1. A construction of a statute which makes its constitutionality
doubtful is to be avoided if possible. P. 471.
2. Section 208(a) of the Transportation Act, 1920, provided (1)
that all rates, fares and charges, and all classifications, regulations
and practices, in any wise changing, affecting, or determining any
part or the aggregate of rates, fares or charges, or the value of
the service rendered, which, on February 29, 1920, were in effect
on lines of carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce Act, should
continue in force until "thereafter" changed by state or federal
authority, or pursuant to authority of law; (2) that, prior to
September 1, 1920, no such rate, fare or charge should be reduced,
and no regulation, etc., should be changed in such manner as to
reduce any such rate, etc., unless such reduction or change were
approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Held:
(1) That a provision in a baggage tariff filed by the Director
General of Railroads during federal control, limiting liability for
misdelivery of baggage,. is within the purview of this section.
P. 468.
(2) The primary purpose of the second clause was, by safeguarding rates, to protect the United States from liability on its
six months' guaranty of a "standard return" to carriers when
released from federal control. P. 472.
(3) The purpose of the first clause was to remove doubts as
to what tariffs were to be applicable after termination of federal
control, by declaring that the existing tariffs, largely initiated by
the Director General, should be deemed operative except in so far as
changed after February 29, 1920, pursuant to law. Pp. 472, 475.
(4) Where a tariff of the Director General limiting liability
for misdelivery of baggage had suspended the operation of a state
statute making the carrier liable for the full value, the effect of
the first clause of § 208(a) was that the statute became again
applicable, without re-enactment, after February 29, 1920; so that
the damages recoverable by an intrastate passenger for the loss

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. BOONE.
466

Opinion of the Court.

of a trunk after September 1, 1920, were governed by the state
statute. P. 476.
263.S. W. (Mo.) 495, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the St. Louis Court of
Appeals, affirming a judgment against the railroad for the
full value of baggage which it failed to deliver to Boone,
an intrastate passenger.
Mr. Merritt U. Hayden, with whom Messrs. Edward
J. White and James F. Green were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Frederick L. English, with whom Mr. Morton
Jourdan was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1922, Byrd J. Boone, a passenger on an intrastate
journey in Missouri over the Missouri Pacific Railroad,
checked a trunk which she took with her. It arrived
safely at its destination but was not delivered to her
because a thief obtained possession through the device
of changing checks. She brought this suit against the
carrier in a court of the State; and claimed that, under
§ 9941 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1919, she was
entitled to the full value. This law, first enacted in
1855, Mo. Rev. Stat., c. 39, § 45, had never been suspended
or repealed by any law of the State. The defendant
relied upon a baggage tariff which limited liability to
$100 unless a greater value was declared and extra payment made. This tariff, applicable to both intrastate and
interstate traffic, had been duly filed by the Director General of Railroads pursuant to the Federal Control Act,
March 21, 1918, c. 25, '§ 10,'40 Stat. 451, 456, and was
in force on the termination' of federal control, February
29, 1920. The defendant contended that, by virtue of

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.,

§ 208(a) of Transportation Act, 1920, February 28, 1920,
c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 464, this limitation had remained in
force as applied to intrastate commerce, because the provision for unlimited liability contained in § 9941 of the
Missouri Revised Statutes had not been re-enacted -after
the termination of federal control.
Section 208(a) provides:
"All rates, fares, and charges, and all classifications,
regulations, and practices, in any wise changing, affecting, or determining, any part or the aggregate of rates,
fares, or charges, or the value of the service rendered,
which on February 29, 1920, are in effect on the lines of
carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce Act, shall
continue in force and effect until thereafter changed by
State or Federal authority, respectively, or pursuant to
authority of law; but prior to September 1, 1920, no such
rate, fare, or charge shall be reduced, and no such classification, regulation, or practice shall be changed in such
manner as to reduce any such rate, fare, or charge, unless
such reduction or change is approved by the Commission."
The trial court entered judgment for $1,000 and interest. The judgment was affirmed by the St. Louis
Court of Appeals, the highest court of the State in which
a decision in the suit could be had. 263 S.W. 495. The
court held that, under the law of Missouri, misdelivery
of the trunk was a conversion which rendered the carrier
liable for its full value; and that the state law governed
because the journey was intrastate. This Court granted
a writ of certiorari. 266 U. S. 600. Under the federal
law misdelivery is not deemed a conversion depriving a
carrier of the benefit of the provision limiting liability.
American Railway Express Co. v. Levee, 263 U. S. 19, 21.
The sole question for decision is the construction and
effect to be given § 208(a).
The provision in the baggage tariff limiting liability
is within the purview of that section. There was no

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. BOONE.
466

Opinion of the Court.

legislation by the State on the subject after the termination of federal control. The State had confessedly power
to restore the full statutory liability as applied to intrastate commerce unless the Interstate Commerce Commission should, for the purpose of preventing discrimination
against interstate commerce, issue an order under Transportation Act, 1920, to the contrary. See Wisconsin Railroad Commission v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Co., 257U. S. 563; New York v. United States, 257 U. S.
591. There was no such order. Compare Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 242 U. S.333. The precise question is whether the
state provision, which had been suspended by the filing
of the tariffs of the Director General, became operative
on September 1, 1920, without re-enactment, or whether
affirmative action by the State after February 29, 1920,
was necessary to restore the full liability theretofore
created by its statute and which it had not repealed. The
analogy of state insolvent laws suspended by enactment
of a bankruptcy act and again becoming operative upon
its repeal, was relied upon. See Tua v. Carriere, 117
U. S. 201; Butler v. Goreley, 146 Ui. S.303.
Most of the rates, fares and charges in effect on February 29, 1920, had been established without suspending
any provision of 4ny statute or the order of any regulatory body. They related to matters with which, both
before and after federal control, carriers were, in the main,
at liberty to deal in their discretion, without first securing
the consent of either the federal or the state commission.
For despite the enlarging sphere of regulation, the field
in which the carrier may exercise initiative and discretion was and is still a wide one.' The existing right of the
I Even under Transportation Act, 1920, the power inheres in the
carriers, to initiate increases or decreases of rates, fares and charges,
subject, of course, to the control of the appropriate regulatory body.
Increases or decreases of interstate rates may, without action by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, become operative after 30

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

carriers to initiate rates was transferred by the second
paragraph of § 10 of the Federal Control Act to the Director General, with three modifications.2 The Interstate Commerce Commission for the time was made the
regulatory body in respect to intrastate as well as interstate rates. The power of suspending tariffs involving
increases (which had been first conferred upon the Commission by Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 12, 36 Stat.
539, 552) was denied to it in respect to such as were filed
by the Director General. And the power to fix the date
when the new tariffs should take effect was vested in the
Director General, instead of being fixed (as provided by
§ 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act) at not less than
30 days subject to the discretion of the Commission. It
was by virtue of the ordinary corporate power of carriers
to establish rates, so transferred to the Director General.
that the rates, fares, charges, classifications, regulations
and practices referred to in the first clause of § 208(a)
had, in the main, been established.'
days' notice by the simple act of filing, unless the Commission suspends them. See Interstate Commerce Act, § 6 (3) and § 15 (7).
The power of the carrier to initiate intrastate rates, fares and charges,
is even broader in many States. See William E. MeCurdy, " The
Power of a Public Utility to Fix its Rates and Charges in the Absence
of Regulatory Legislation." 38 Harv. Law Rev. 202.
2 Compare Willamette Valley Lumbermen's Asso. v. Southern Pacific
Co., 51 I. C. C. 250; Johnston v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry.
Co., 51 . C. C. 356, 361; Californ~i-CanneriesCo. v. Southern Pacific
Co., 51 . C. C. 738, 764-772; Notches Chamber of Commerce v.
Louisiana & Arkansas Ry. Co., 52 I. C. C. 105, 130; Public Service
Commission of Washington v. Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co., 53
I. C. C. 1; Illinois Coal Traffic Bureau v. Director General, 56 I. C. C.
426, 431; Utilities Development Corporationv. Pittsburg,Cincinnati,
Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co. et al., 56 I. C. C. 694; American
Wholesale Lunber Asso. v. Director General, 66 I. C. C. 393, 396;
Alabama Co. v. Director General, 78 I. C. C. 561.
3 See General Order No. 28, issued May 25, 1918, U. S. Railroad
Administration Bulletin No. 4 (Revised), p. 285; Reduced tariff
rates on building materials, April 11, 1919, Supplement to Bulletin,

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. BOONE.
466

Opinion of the Court.

In support of the judgment below, it is contended that
the section would be unconstitutional, if construed as
providing that the Missouri statute, although applicable
only to intrastate commerce, should not become operative unless and until re-enacted. The argument is this:
If so construed, the Act of Congress would, in effect, repeal all such state laws affecting intrastate commerce
existing at the termination of federal control, while granting to the States permission to legislate on the subject
thereafter or recognizing their power to do so. The prohibition of reductions of intrastate rates during the six
months' period of guaranteed return, was a. proper exercise
of power incident to federal operation and control during
the war. Congress could, under that power, also make
reasonable provision to ensure workable tariffs on the restoration of the railroads to their owners. But a repeal
by Congress of all such existing state laws, affecting intrastate commerce, coupled with permission to enact new
ones, would not be an appropriate means to that end, nor
could such legislation be sustained under the commerce
clause. Regulation by a State of intrastate rates is not
a function exercised by permission of the Federal Government, In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 564, or because of its
inaction. The power of Congress over intrastate rates
conferred by the commerce clause is limited to action
reasonably necessary for the protection of interstate commerce, Wisconsin Railroad Commission v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563. No necessity
is here shown. Such is the argument. The section, if
so construed, would, at least, raise a grave and doubtful
p. 25.

"The rates were made by filing the tariffs with thd com-

mission. The orders were directions of the Director General to his
officials." Compare Atlantic Coast Line Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission of Georgia, 281 Fed. 321, 325; Anaconda Copper Mining
Co. v. Director General, 57 I. C. C. 723, 726; Lehigh Valley Coal
Co. v. Director General, 69 I. C. C. 535, 539.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

constitutional question. Under the settled practice, a
construction which does so will not be adopted, where
some other is open to us. United States v. Delaware &
Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 408; Federal Trade Commission v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298, 307. An examination of the section in the light of the then existing
federal and state law will make clear that another and
reasonable construction is open to us, and that it should
prevail.
Section 208(a) contains two clauses. Each was to take
effect immediately. Each dealt with rates, fares, charges,
classifications, regulations and pra.tices. But in purpose,
character, and scope the two clauses differ widely. The
primary purpose of the second clause was to protect the
United States from liability on its guaranty to the carriers of the standard return. It sought to do so by prohibiting any reduction of rates, fares or charges without
the consent of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The prohibition applied alike to intrastate and to interstate rats, It extended to reductions made by the carriers, as'well as'to, those made by the States. But the
prohibition was limited to reductions. Increases might
be made. The prohibition was confined to the first six
months after the surrender of the railroads to their owners,
because the Government guaranty was limited tn that
period.
The first clause of § 208(a) is legislation permanent in
character. It relates alike to changes which increase
rates and to those which reduce. It contains no prohibition. It explains. Its purpose was not to conserve revenues but to remove doubts and avoid confusion. A clarifying provision was needed. Comprehensive changes in
the rates, fares, charges, classifications, regulations and
practices had been made by the Director General by filing
the same with the Interstate Commerce Commission, pursuant to power conferred by § 10 of the Federal Control

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. BOONE.
466

Opinion of the Court.

Act. It was important that carriers and the public should
know whether, and to what extent, these changed rates,
fares, charges, classifications, regulations and practices
would continue in force after the return of the railroads
to their owners. This information the first clause supplied by specifying what tariffs were applicable. To
facilitate the conduct of business by this means was an
appropriate exercise of the power of Congress. To have
undertaken to do so by means of abrogating all rates,
fares and charges established by the several States in
respect to intrastate commerce, and all classifications and
regulations affecting them, would not have been. It is
not lightly to be assumed that Congress would have resorted to means so extraordinary for securing workablv
tariffs.
It is suggested that, although the primary purpose of
the first clause of § 208(a) was to facilitate the conduct
of business, Congress intended thereby also to protect the
carrier's revenues; and that a requirement of an affirmative exercise of state power after termination of federal
control would, by presenting an obstacle to change, make
reductions of rates by the States difficult, and thus result
in protecting the carrier's revenues. That Congress did
not devise the first clause as a means of so protecting
revenues appears from the character of the provision there
made. The clause applies equally, whether the rate made
by the Director General was a reduction or an increase of
the rate in effect before federal control. The clause left
the several States free to proceed at once to establish
reductions, and to make them effective upon the expiration of the Government's guaranty. Whether a particular
State could avail itself of that liberty would thus depend
wholly upon its own constitution, legislation and practice.
If at the time Transportation Act, 1920, was enacted the
legislature either happened to be in session or could be
promptly convened, the State might by a single statute

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

have restored, as of September 1, 1920, its rates, fares
and charges and all classifications, regulations and practices affecting them, no matter what change the Director
General had made. In those States where the ratemaking power was vested in a regulatory body in continuous session a like result could have been attained
through a single order. On the other hand, in those
States where the local law did not permit such prompt
action by the rate-making authority, the restoration of
rates by state action would necessarily have been deferred.
It is not to be assumed that Congress intended to adopt
a means of protection which would have been indirect,
fortuitous and largely futile, and which would obviously
have produced such inequalities among the States, when
direct, certain and better means of protection were
available.
Moreover, there was no purpose in Congress to maintain in force, after the expiration of the six months' guaranty period, either the interstate or the intrastate rates
which had been established by the Director General. It
was recognized, when Transportation Act, 1920, was enacted, that these were not high enough to yield to the
carriers adequate revenues. Means of increasing them
were specifically provided by those sections of Transportation Act, 1920, which prescribe the essentials of a fair
return and empower the Commission, upon notice to the
States and with their cooperation, to prevent discrimination against interstate commerce resulting from unduly
low intrastate rates, fares and charges. See §§ 415, 416
and 422. Proceedings were in contemplation by means
of which it was proposed to establish largely increased
rates on the expiration of the Government's guaranty,
September 1, 1920. The order for such general increase
made.by Ex parte 74, Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C.
220, on July 29, 1920, followed extensive hearings in
which commissions representing the States participated.

MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. BOONE.
466

Opinion of the Court.

Proceedings were instituted in the States before September 1, 1920, to secure corresponding increases of the intrastate rates. And further proceedings were had before the
federal Commission to remove obstacles to increases of
the intrastate rates which existed in some of the States.'
The six months' prohibition of reductions provided for
by the second clause of § 208(a) afforded carriers and the
Interstate Commerce Commission ample opportunity to
take such action as might be deemed advisable for carrying out the new policy established by Transportation
Act, 1920.
When the first clause of § 208(a) is examined in the
light of these facts, the construction to be given it becomes
clear. In order to remove doubts as to what tariffs were
to be applicable after the termination of federal control,
Congress declared that the existing tariffs, largely initiated
by the Director General, should be deemed operative, except so far as changed thereafter-that is, after February
29, 1920-pursuant to law. Such modification of intrastate tariffs might result from action of the carriers taken
on their own initiative. It might result from orders of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. It might result from
the making either of new state laws or of new orders of
a state commission acting under old laws still in force
and again becoming operative. Or such modification
might result from the mere cessation of the suspension,
which had been effected through federal control, of statutes
or orders theretofore in force and still unaffected by any
4 See

Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission,

December 1, 1920, pp. 6-10; Rates, Fares and Charges of New York
Central R. R. Co., 59 I. C. C. 290; Intrastate Rates Within Illinois,
59 I. C. C. 350; Wisconsin Passenger Fares, 59 I. C. C. 391; Wisconsin Railroad Commission v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563; New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591; Re Steam
Railroads, P. U. R. 1920F 7; Re Northern Pac. Ry. Co., P. U. R.
1920F 11; Re Railroads, P. U. R. 1920F 17; Re Railroads,P. U. R.
1920F 33; Re Freight Rates of Carriers,P. U. R. 1921A 399.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

action of the authority which made them. In any of
these cases, the change would be effected "thereafter;"that is, after the termination of federal control. The
statute of Missouri enforced by its courts was in effect
in 1922. The judgment is
Affirmed.
CHEROKEE NATION v. UNITED STATES
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 198. Argued March 8, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. The effect as res judicata of the judgment of the Court of Claims,
as modified by this Court'(202 U. S. 101), determining the claims
of the Cherokee Nation against the United States, was waived
in so far as concerns interest, by the Act of March 3, 1919, directing a re-examination of that question and specially conferring
jurisdiction on the Court of Claims, with a right of appeal to this
Court. P.486.
2. Congress has power to waive the benefit of res judicata by allowing another trial of a claim against the United States. Id.
3. Interest can not be recovered from the United States in a suit
on contract referred by special Act to the Court of Claims, unless
the contract or the special Act expressly authorized interest.
P. 487.
4. On the amounts of principal owing them by the United States,
as determined in the case reported in 202 U. S. 101, the Cherokees
were entitled, as by stipulation, to simple interest only, at five per
cent. to date of payment. P. 487.
5. The fact that Congress failed to appropriate money, in accordance with its agreement, to pay principal amounts and accrued
simple interest due to the Cherokees on an account stated and
agreed to between them and the United States, is not a good reason for allowing interest on the interest from the time when the
payments should have been made. P. 488.
6. The provision in the sixth article of the agreement with the
Cherokees, of December 19, 1891, ratified by Act of March 3, 1893,
providing for interest at five per cent. on money to be paid them
"so long as the money . . . shall remain in the Treasury,"
referh to money payable for the land ceded by the Indians under

