LITTLEJOHN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
181

215

Syllabus.

an interest, and that the resulting rights of the Indians
and obligations of the United States were limited
accordingly.
Our conclusion on the whole case is that the bill must
be dismissed on the merits as to all the lands, excepting
the 706 acres described as within the Leech Lake, Winnibigoshish and Cass Lake reservations as defined and
existing in 1860, and that as to them the United States is
entitled to a decree canceling the patents for such as have
not been sold by the State and charging her with the
value of such as she has sold. By reason of the relation
in which the United States is suing, the value should be
determined on the basis of the prices which would have
been controlling had the particular lands been dealt with,
as they should have been., under the Act of 1889, United
States v. Mille Lac Chippewas, supra, 510.
The parties will be accorded twenty days within which
to suggest a form of decree giving effect to our conclusions and to present an agreed calculation of the value of
so much of the 706 acres as has been sold.

L. LITTLEJOHN & CO., INC.,

ET AL.'

V. UNITED

STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 94.

Argued January 7, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Damages are not recoverable from the United States under the
Suits in Admiralty Act (March 9, 1920,) for a collision due to the
fault of a vessel owned and in possession of the United States and
being operated in transporting supplies and troops. P. 223.
2. In the absence of convention, every government may pursue what
policy it thinks best concerning seizure and confiscation of enemy
ships in its harbors when war occurs. P. 226.
3. The Joint Resolution of May 12, 1917, authorized the President to
take over to the United States the immediate possession and title

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

270 U. S.

of any vessel within the jurisdiction which, at the time of coming
therein, was owned by any subject of, or was under register of, an
enemy nation; and this was within the power of Congress. P. 227.

Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court in Admiralty, dismissing libels for damages due to collision.
Messrs. James W. Ryan and John M. Woolsey, with
whom Messrs. T. Catesby Jones, D. Roger Englar, and
J. M. R. Lyeth were on the brief, for appellats.
The relation of the United States to the seized ships
was the same as the relation of the Alien Property Custodian under the Act of October 6, 1917, to the other
enemy-owned private property afterwards seized by him.
Central Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554; United States
v. Chemical Foundation,Inc., 5 Fed. (2d) 191; The West.
ern Maid, 257 U. S. 419, distinguished; "Camillus Letters" of Alexander Hamilton; Moore Dig. Int. Law, Vol.
7, p. 308.
The United States has failed to prove that the Antigone at the time of collision had a status which would
prevent the ordinary maritime lien attaching. The doctrine of the offending thing which has been so thoroughly
established in our law seems to have only one exception,
so far as this Court has determined; namely, when the
United States has a property interest in the vessel or has
promised to keep her free from liens, and the vessel is
engaged in a public service. The Western Maid, The
Liberty, The Carolinian, 257 U. S. 419; Ex Parte State
of New York, No. 1, 256 U. S. 490; Ex Parte State of
New York, No. 2, 256 U. S. 503.
The TJnited States confessedly not only did not have
title to the vessel, but did not have any property interest
in her and had not promised to keep her free from liens,
because no prize court proceedings had been had to subject her to forfeiture, and the steps taken by the Presi-

LITTLEJOHN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

217

Argument for Appellants.

dent, acting through the Shipping Board, at most only
purported to go so far as to take possession of the vessel-if indeed they could have gone further without resort to judicial proceedings. It is clear that the vessel
was not technically in the possession of the United States
at the time of the collision, because, she had been placed
out of commission in the Navy and, though transferred
to the Army Transport Service, was in possession of master, officers, and crew who are not shown to have any
commissions from the President and, therefore, to have
been officers of the United States within the meaning of
the Constitution. Furthermore, whether the vessel was
actually in the physical possession of the United States
or not, it is perfectly certain that the United States had
not secured by any proper proceedings the right to any
possession, and that, therefore, the Antigone was not
rightfully in the possession of the United States. The
Apparn, 243 U. S. 124.
The proceeding taken by the United States in the
Court below amounted to an independent proceeding. It
was in effect an informal proceeding in prize by which
the United States submitted itself to the jurisdiction of
the Court to have the status of the Antigone and its
rights with regard to her determined. Ex parte Muir, 254
U. S. 522; United States v. The Thekla, 266 U. S. 228.
The United States must take the consequences of its
failure to follow orderly procedure and have the Antigone
condemned by a prize court, as was done by England in
the case of The Marie Leonhardt, 1921 Prob. 1, or requisitioned by an order of the prize ourt, as was done in the
case of The Edna, 3 Brit. & Col. Prob., 407. What the
President should have done in connection with the Antigone in taking her over for military use is shown in The
Pedro, 175 U. S. 354. Cf. The Rita, 89 Fed. 763.
This suit if brought against the ship in rem immediately after the collision could not have been regarded as

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

270 U. S.

a suit in which the United States, or any of its property,
in effect was being sued. If the United States did not
stand exactly in the position of the Alien Property Custodian, it did hold possession merely as a receiver for the
German owner and, like any other receiver was not personally liable for the negligence of navigating servants
whom it had used due care to select.
This matter is justiciable and not political. This suit
is brought against the United States not because of any
relation it had to the Antigone at the time of the collision
on October 9, 1919, but because a maritime lien for collision arose at that time on the Antigone, because this
lien is a property right, and the United States has taken
over title to the vessel under the treaty, subject to this
property right of the appellants. At the time of the collision the United States, being merely a custodian or
receiver to conserve the Antigone, was not personally liable for the collision damage. The collision, however, created a lien on the Antigone because her only ship's paper
was a German merchant vessel register, and she is not
shown to have been in the possession of an officer of the
United States as defined by the Constitution. After the
collision, the Peace Treaty with Germany ended the receivership (so to speak) and the United States took over
the vessel assets, including the Antigone, under the grant
and confirmation made by Germany in the Treaty. This
suit was then brought against the United States under
The Suits in Admiralty Act, as a substitute for a suit in
rem against the Antigone. This form of action was
necessary because the Act provides that a, maritime lien
on a vessel which has afterwards been acquired by the
United States must be brought not against the vessel, but
against the United States, according to the principles of
libels in rem. The relation of the United States to the
Antigone at the time of the collision was substantially
that of a licensee. In April, 1917, it sequestrated her,

LITTLEJOHN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

219

Argument for Appellants.

and in May, 1917, asserted the privilege of using her as
licensee or trustee without confiscating or promising to
pay for her use. In other words, the United States never
"took" any property interest in the Antigone.
If construed as a confiscation, the Resolution of May 12,
1917, is unconstitutional because it violates international
law. Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distilleries, 251 'U. S. 146; Harv. L. Rev.,
Vol. 34, p. 777; Brown v. United States, 8 Cr. 110; Foreign Relations, U. S. (1907), Vol. II, p. 1158; Articles 1
and 2, Sixth Hague Convention (1907); MacLeod v.
United States, 229 U. S. 416. The constitutionality of
the Resolution must be qualified, if not impeached, unless
it be construed to imply ultimate restitution of these
merchant ships, or equitable indemnification therefor, or
reparation. Murray v. Chicago Co., 92 Fed. 868. The
powers of Congress in peace and in war, as well as the
treaty authority, respond to the law of nations " as understood in this country." It is axiomatic that no single
nation can change the law of nations adversely to its
general moral (if not everywhere, constitutional) obligation. And it is peculiarly the view of the common law
that the municipal laws of a country cannot change international law. The Scotia, 14 Wall. 170; The Paquete
Habana, 175 U. S. 677; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244
and other Insular Cases; Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall.
419; Cooley, Const. L. (3d ed.), p. 123; Brown v. United
States, 8 Cr. 110; United States v. Percheman, 7 Pet. 51;
Art. XXIV, Prussian Treaty of 1799; Pollard v. Kibbe,
14 Pet. 353; 5 Hamilton's Works, Lodge ed., 126, 218;
Society, etc. v. New Haven, 8 Wheat. 464; The Peggy,
1 Cr. 103. The early treaties between the United States
and Prussia, assuring in effect the restitution, as well as
the security of private enemy-owned property upon the
coming of peace, are therefore not only a recognition of a
theretofore existing rule of international law, but are

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Appellants.

270 U. S.

themselves a part of the international law which should
be enforced by this Court. It is significant that these
early treaties were regarded by the political branches of
the United States as being so well settled a part of international law that it was not deemed necessary even to
mention them in framing the more recent Treaty of Peace
and Executive Agreement with Germany. If, as the
Government's claim in the present case alleges, the
United States acquired by the seizure a lawful right of
possession, why was it necessary for this Government
afterwards to have the German Government render that
possession more valid by forma" treaty? Under the
Treaty of Peace with Germany of August 25, 1921, the
satisfaction of all private American claims against Germany and the confirming to the United States "of seizures" imposed or made by the United States during the
war, are the salient or expressed conditions upon which
turn the retention of German property in the possession
or control of the United States.
The Antigone was at most in the custodia legis of the
United States and could not in any real sense be said to
be a vessel of the United States entitled to immunity
from liability as an essential tool or part of the sovereign.
The President did not seize or take over the possession
of the Antigone after the adoption of the Resolution of
May 12, 1917.
The District Court had no jurisdiction on its admiralty
side to entertain the claim of the United States. The
court should therefore have granted the motion of the
libellants to transfer the claim proceeding of the United
States to the prize side and permit the collision libels to
be proved. as cross suits or intervening claims in that
proceeding. The Appam, 243 Fed. 230; The Peterhoif,
19 Fed. Cas. No. 11025; Sawyer v. Maine, etc., Ins. Co.,
12 Mass. 291; Bradstreet v. Neptune Ins. Co., 3 Sumn.
600. It is now the accepted rule, both in international

LITTLEJOHN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

221

Argument for Appellants.

law and under our Constitution, that the condemnation,
to be effective, must be by a judicial tribunal, and that
no administrative substitute can take its place. The
Appam, 243 U. S. 124; The Siren, 22 Fed. Cas. No. 12911;
Oakes v. United States, 174 U. S. 778; The Nassau, 4
Wall. 634. This is not only a rule of international law,
but a principle confirmed by the Constitution of the
United States. Jecker v. Montgomery, 13 How. 498; The
Resolution, 2 Dall. 1; Young v. United States, 97 U. S.
39. The necessity after seizure of a deposit of value or a
judicial condemnation, as a condition to the taking over
by the Executive of an enemy vessel for military purposes, is still more evident on consideration of the decisions of this Court holding that vessels such as the Neckar
are entitled to most liberal treatment and that a noncombatant enemy has a right not only to a judicial hearing and to appear and claim the seized vessel and contest
the seizor's claims, but also to prosecute an appeal to this
Court if the lower court's ruling should be unfavorable.
The Pedro, 175 U. S. 354; The Guido, 175 U. S. 383; The
Buena Ventura, 175 U. S. 384; The Panama, 176 U. S.
535; The Paquete Habana, 175 U. S. 677. Indeed, the
rule of law requiring a judicial proceeding as a conditiori
to the transfer of possession to the sovereign, is so well
settled that the Navy Department has recognized it by
general orders. The Santo Domingo, 119 Fed. 388. The
suggestion that the law of maritime or prize seizure is
confined to seizures on the high seas is refuted not only by
the British authorities but also by the following American cases: The Joseph, 8 Cr. 451; The Caledonian, 4
Wheat. 100; Dewey v. United States, 178 U. S. 510; The
Santo Domingo, 119 Fed. 386; United States v. Steever,
113 U. S. 747; The Rita, 89 Fed. 763.
The resolution is unconstitutional 'because it reduces
the extent of the constitutional grant of admiralty juris-

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

270 U. S.

diction to the judiciary and impairs the substantive international maritime law. Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S. 149; Gableman v. PeoriaRy. Co., 179
U. S. 335; Walters v. Payne, 292 Fed. 124.
By granting immunity in the present case, this Court
would be extending the theory of immunity beyond any
of its existing decisions. Harv. L. Rev., Vol. 34, p. 165;
Cardozo, Growth of the Law, p. 117; Laski, Foundations
of Sovereignty, pp. 109, 126; Pound, Spirit of the Common Law, pp. 83-84; Stimson, Popular Law Making, p.
10; Carter, Law, Its Origin, Growth and Function, pp. 6,
8, 13-14; Gray, Nature and Sources of Law, 1921 ed., pp.
74, 233, 288; Salmond, Jurisprudence, pp. 202-203; Lightwood, Nature of Positive Law, p. 417; Vinogradoff, Outlines of Historical Jurisprudence, p. 86; Bryce, Studies in
History and Jurisprudence, p. 538; Brown, Austinian
Theory of Law, p. 194.
The claim or suggestion of the United States Attorney
should be dismissed because not proved and because not
presented by a proper officer; or should be regarded as a
submission to jurisdiction enabling the collision lien to
be enforced as a cross or intervening claim.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Letts and Mr. J. Frank Staley, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
appellee.
Under the Joint Resolption of May 12, 1917, and the
Executive Orders issued thereunder, the United States
acquired lawful possession of and title to the Antigone.
Brown v. United States, 8 Cr. 110; Miller v. United
States, 11 Wall. 268; Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 199; The
Western Maid, 257 U. S. 419.
The Western Maid, 257 U. S. 419, settles the point
that, as the vessel was owned by or in the lawful possession of the United States. and employed in the public

LITTLEJOHN ot CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

223

Opinion of the Court.

service at the time of the collision, she was immune from
liability.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The court below sustained a challenge to its jurisdiction, and this direct appeal followed.
October 9, 1919, in New York Harbor the steamships
"Antigone" and " Gaelic Prince" collided. Serious injury resulted to the latter and its cargo. February 19,
1921, relying upon the Suits in Admiralty Act of March 9,
1920 (c. 95, 41 Stat. 525), the owners seek to recover damages. The Act of March 3, 1925, c. 428, 43 Stat. 1112, is
not aiplicable. They allege that the collision resulted
from the fault of the "Antigone." Also that"At all the times mentioned herein prior to the 13th day
of October 1919, and particularly on the 9th day of October, 1919, the date of the collision hereinafter mentioned, the steamship 'Antigone' was owned by a private person or merchant who was solely entitled to the
immediate and lawful possession, operation, and control
of said vessel. At no time prior to said 13th day of October, 1919, was the said steamship 'Antigone' owned,
either absolutely or pro hac vice, by the United States of
America, nor by any corporation in which the United
States of America or its representatives owned the entire
outstanding capital stock, nor lawfully in the possession
of the United States of America or of such corporation,
nor lawfully operated by or for the United States of
America or such corporation. On the 13th day of October, 1919, the respondent United States of America became, ever since has been, and now is in the lawful possession of the steamship 'Antigone,' but at no time has
the United States of America held the legal title to or
been the absolute owner of said steamship 'Antigone.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

The United States appeared specially and suggested
that when the collision occurred they owned, possessed
and controlled the "Antigone" and therefore the court
was without jurisdiction. This was denied and evidence
was taken upon the consequent issue. Having considered
the evidence, the court held that the United States owned
the vessel and were navigating her, with a crew employed
by the War Department, in transporting supplies and
troops. The libels were accordingly dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
If the established facts show such ownership, posses-

sion and control, then, under the doctrine of The Western
Maid, 257 U. S. 419, to which we adhere, the decree is

clearly right.
The history of the matter is this. The "Antigone "-then
the privately-owned German merchantman "Neckar "-

took refuge within the United States prior to April 6,
1917, when war with Germany was declared. By Joint
Resolution of May 12, 1917, c. 13, 40 Stat. 75 (copied in

the margin*), Congress autJiorized the President to take
over to the United States the immediate possession and
title of any vessel within their jurisdiction which at the
time of coming therein was owned by any corporation,
citizen or subject of an enemy nation, or was under register of any such nation. By Executive Order of June
30, 1917, the President affirmed that the "Neckar" was
*Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress Assembled, That the President
be, and he is hereby, authorized to take over to the United States
the immediate possession and title of any vessel within the jurisdiction thereof, including the Canal Zone and all territories and insular
possessions of the United States except the American Virgin Islands,
which at the time of coming into such jurisdiction was owned in
whole or in part by any corporation, citizen, or subject of any nation with which the United States may be at war when such vessel
shall be taken, or was flying the flag of or was under register of any
such nation or any political subdivision or municipality thereof; and,
through the United States Shipping Board, or any department or

LITTLEJOHN & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
215

225

Opinion of the Court.

such a vessel and ordered that "the possession and title"
be taken over through the United States Shipping Board.
He further authorized that Board to repair, equip, man
and operate her. It accordingly took her, July 17, 1917,
and thereafter a naval board appraised her. Subsequently
she was transferred to the Navy Department, re-named
the "Antigone," and later transferred to the Army Transport Service. October 9, 1919, she sailed under a master,
officers and crew of the United States Transport Service
from New York bound for Brest, from which port she
was to return with troops.
Appellants say that the rules of international law as
recognized by the United States forbade them from confiscating German vessels within their jurisdiction at outbreak of the war, and that the Resolution of May 12,
1917, should be so interpreted as to harmonize with these
rules. They further insist that thus interpreted the
Resolution only gave authority to detain and operate the
"Antigone" as enemy property, leaving title in the original German owners and the vessel subject to ordinary
maritime liens. Our attention is called to the course
pursued by the British government and to certain decisions of their courts. The Chile, 1 Br. & Col. Prize Cases
1; The Gutenfels, 2 id. 36; The Prinz Adalbert, 3 id. 70,
72; The Blonde, L. R. (1922) 1 A. C. 313, 334.
agency of the G wernment, to operate, lease, charter, and equip such
vessel in any service of the United States, or in any commerce, foreign or coastwise .
SEC. 2. That the Secretary of the Navy be, and he is hereby,
authorized and directed to appoint, subject to the approval of the
President, a board of survey, whose duty it shall be to ascertain the
actual value of the vessel, its equipment, appurtenances, and all property contained therein, at the time of its taking, and to make a written report of their findings to the Secretary of the Navy, who shall
preserve such report with the records of his department. These findings shall be considered as competent evidence in all proceedings on
any claim for
compensation.
°
2 61
100569

-

5

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Both Great Britain and Germany were parties to Convention VI of the Second Hague Peace Conference, 1907,*
and the action of the former, referred to by counsel, was
taken in view of obligations thus assumed. The United
States did not approve that convention, and the cited
cases involved problems wholly different from the one
here presented.
It is unnecessary to consider how far the ancient rules
of international law concerning confiscation of enemy
property have been modified by recent practices. In the
absence of convention every government may pursue
what policy it thinks best concerning seizure and confiscation of enemy ships in its harbors when war occurs. The
Hague Conference (1907) recognized this and sought by
agreement to modify the rule. The Blonde, supra, p. 326.
Our problem is to determine the result of action taken
under a Joint Resolution of Congress whose language is
very plain and refers only to enemy vessels. It authorized the President to take "possession and title," and,
obeying, he took them. We do not doubt the right of
any independent nation so to do without violating any
*Article 1. When a merchant ship belonging to one of the belligerent Powers is at the commencement of hostilities in an enemy port
it is desirable that it should be allowed to depart freely, either
immediately, or after a reasonable number of days of grace, and to
proceed, after being furnished with a pass, direct to its port of
destination or any other port indicated.
The same rule should apply in the case of a ship which has left its
last port of departure before the commencement of the war and
entered a port belonging to the enemy while still ignorant that hostilities had broken out.
Article 2. A merchant ship unable, owing to circumstances of force
majeure, to leave the enemy port within the period contemplated in
the above article, or which was not, allowed to leave, can not be
confiscated.
The belligerent may only detain it, without payment of compensation, but subject to the obligation of restoring it after the war, or
requisition it on payment of compensation.

SANCHEZ v. DEERING.
215

Syllabus.

uniform or commonly accepted rule of international law;
and Congress had power to authorize the action irrespective of any general views theretofore advanced in behalf
of this government. Certainly all courts within the
United States must recognize the legality of the seizure;
the duly expressed will of Congress when proceeding
within its powers is the supreme law of the land.
Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch 110, 122---" That war
gives to the sovereign full right to take the pr-sons and
confiscate the property of the enemy wherever found, is
conceded. The mitigations of this rigid rule, which the
humane and wise policy of modern times has introduced
into practice, will more or less affect the exercise of this
right, but cannot impair the right itself. That remains
undiminished, and when the sovereign authority shall
chuse to bring it into operation, the judicial department
must give effect to its will. But until that will shall be
expressed, no power of condemnation can exist in the
Court." See Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; The
Blonde, supra.
The decree of the court below is
Affirmed.
SANCHEZ ET AL. v. DEERING.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 134.

Argued January 14, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Confirmation by Congress of a Spanish grant in Florida, (Acts of
March 3, 1823, February 8, 1827,) followed by survey, passed legal
title. Wilson Cypress Co. v. Marcos, 236 U. S. 635. P. 229.
2. Claimants of an undivided interest in such a grant, and their
predecessors, by postponing for seventy years after survey the suit
against those holding under the confirmation, were guilty of laches.
Id.
298 Fed. 286, affirmed.

