UNITED STATES v. NAT. EXCH. BANK. 527
521

Syllabus.

In urging this objection to the indictment, reliance is
had by defendant upon the opinion of this Court in the
case of Peoria & Pekin Union Ry. Co. v. United States,
263 U. S. 528. There the Interstate Commerce Commission sought under § 15 to compel a terminal carrier to
switch, by its own engines and over its own tracks, freight
cars tendered by or for another connecting carrier. It
was held that the exercise of the emergency power of the
Commission in transferring car equipment from one carrier to the use of another under paragraph 15 was strictly
to be construed, and that the provision as to car service
did not authorize the Commission, to impose upon the
terminal carrier, without a hearing, the affirmative duty
not only of turning over its cars and equipment to another
carrier, as contemplated in paragraph 15, but also that of
itself doing the work of the transportation of and for
another carrier. It was in this connection that'this Court
used ' the expression that car service connotes the use to
which vehicles of transportation are put, but not the
transportation service rendered by means of them. The
opinion expressly affirms the authority of the Commission under paragraph 15 to give regulatory directions for
preference or priority in transportation. The language of
this Court in the Peoria Case referred to is of no aid to
the defendant here.
The judgment is
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK
OF BALTIMORE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 222. Argued March 16, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. A drawee of a check or draft who is also the drawer is held, in
paying it, to a knowledge of the true amount, and if, by mistake,

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

270 U. S.

he pay to a bona fide holder for value without notice a larger
-alnount to which the paper has been fraudulently raised, he can not
recover the difference from such holder. P. 533.
2. This rule is applicable to the United States.
So held where a check was drawn on the Treasurer of the United
States by a disbursing clerk of the Veterans' Bureau; raised and
negotiated by the payee; and in -due course taken and paid for at
its fraudulent face by the defendant bank, which collected the same
amount from the United States.

I Fed. (2d) 888, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment for the Bank in an action by the
United States to recover the difference between the
amount to which a check paid by it had been fraudulently
raised and the amount for which it was drawn.
Mr. GardnerP. Lloyd, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on
the brief, for the United States.
It is a general rule that a payment made under mistake
of fact may be recovered. There is, it is true, an exception
in the case of commercial paper. This exception is that
where, from the situation of the parties, the person paying an instrument may be assumed to know iertain facts
cbncerning the instrument, he can not recover the payment because of a mistake as to those facts. Thus a
drawee may be assumed to know his drawer's signature
and can not recover a payment made upon an instrument to which the drawer's signature is a forgery. But
ordinarily it can not be assumed that the drawee knows
the amount of the instrument or anything more than
the signature of the drawer, and he may therefore recover
any amount paid on a raised instrument in excess of the
amount originally called for. However, if the drawer
and the drawee are the same person, he may be assumed
to know the amount of the instrument as well as his own
signature and can not recover a payment made on an

UNITED STATES v. NAT. EXCH. BANK. 529
527

Argument for the United States.

instrument the amount of which has been fraudulently
raised. In the present case the drawer and the drawee
were not the same. That both were agents of the United
States is no basis for an assumption that the Treasurer
knew, or should have known, all facts known to the disbursing clerk. The case is therefore within the general
rule that a payment made uzider a mistake of fact may
be recovered; and not within the exception. Price v.
Neal, 3 Burr. 1354; 4 Harv. L. Rev. 297; United States v.
Natl. Exch. Bank, 214 U. S. 302; Espy v. Bank of Cin,
cinnati, 18 Wall. 604; White v. Cont. Natl. Bank, 64
N. Y. 316; Parke v. Roser, 67 Ind. 500; City Bank v.
Natl. Bank, 45 Tek. 203; Redington v. Woods, 45 Cal.
406; United States Bank v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheat.
333; Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389; United States
v. Chase Natl. Bank, 252 U. S. 485; United States v.
Bank of New York, 219 Fed. 648; §§ 62, 130, and 141,
Negotiable Instruments Law; Brannan, Negotiable Instruments Law, 3d ed., 225; McClendon v. Bank of Advance, 188 Mo. App. 417; Interstate Trust Co. v. United
States Natl. Bank, 67 Colo. 6; Amer. Homing Co. v.
Milliken Natl. Bank, 273 Fed. 550; First Natl. Bank v.
United States ANatl. Bank, 100 Ore. 264; Cherokee Natl.
Bank v. Union Trust Co., 33 Okla. 342.
It is no doubt true, on general principles of agency, that
where one holds commercial paper, not as the owner
thereof, but merely for collection as agent for another,
the drawee who pays the paper with knowledge or notice
of the agency can not recover from the agent if he has
paid the proceeds over to his principal before receiving
notice of any defect in the paper. But in this case it appears from the declaration that the defendant received
the check for value in the usual course of business and
was not merely an agent to collgct, and therefore the
plaintiff can recover without alleging that the defendant,
before paying over the proceeds to the bank from which
100569°-26-----34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

270 U. S.

it received the check, had notice that the check has been
fraudulently raised. Schutz v. Jordan, 141 U. S. 213;
Woods v. Colony Bank, 114 Ga. 683; Negotiable Instruments Lay, §§ 31-38.
It is apparent in the present case, first, that the indorsement placed on the check by the Bank of Commerce
is, on its face, unrestricted; second, that regardless of
what the defendant might prove on a trial, it does not
appear from the pleadings that there is any custom
among banks to use such an indorsement for collection
,only and not where it is the intention to transfer title
to an instrument; and third, that even if there were such
a custom it should not be permitted to vary the unrestricted language of the indorsement.
Messrs. G. Ridgely Sappington and Charles G. Baldwin for defendant in error.
This action is barred by the rule that as between two
parties having equal equities, one of whom must suffer,
the legal title will prevail, and the action for money
had and received will not lie to compel the holder to surrender his legal advantage.
The doctrine of Price v. Neal, 3 Burr. 1354, has been
generally approved in the United States. Bank of United
States v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheat. 333; Gloucester
Bank v. Salem Bank, 17 Mass. 32; United States v.
Chase Natl. Bank, 252 U. S. 485; United States v. Natl.
Exch. Bank, 214 U. S. 302; Deposit Bank v. Fayette
Natl. Bank, 90 Ky. 10; Dedham Natl. Bank v. Everett
Natl. Bank, 177 Mass. 392; Comm. & Farmers Nat.
Bank v. First Natl. Bank, 30 Md. 11. Although there is
no logical reason why the rule in Price v. Neal should
not be applied in cases where the forgery consists in raising the amount of the check, as well as in cases where
the drawer's signature is .forged, yet this distinction has
been made by many courts, including this Court. It is

UNITED STATES v. NAT. EXCH. BANK. 531
527

Argument for Defendant in Error.

to be attributed to the influence of the doctrine of negligence on the general rule as laid down by Lord Mansfield. This is shown by the fact that in drawing the distinction the statement is made that a bank is bound to
know the signature of its depositor, the drawer, but is
not bound to know the amount for which the check was
drawn. Espy v. Bank of Cincinnati,18 Wall. 604. There
is a manifest distinction between Bank of United States
v. Bank of Georgia and Espy v. Bank of Cincinnati,and
that distinction is vital in the consideration of the case
at, bar. It is that in the former the drawer and drawee
were the same person, while in the latter they were
different persons.
Of course, the rule laid down in Price v. Neal as to
the drawee applies with all the more force when the
drawer and the drawee are the same. In such cases payment is an adoption of the paper by such dravier-drawee.
Bank of United States v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheat.
333; United States v. Bank of New York, 219 Fed. 648;
Jones v. Miners & Merchants Bank, 144 Mo. App. 428;
Johnston v. Commercial Bank, 27.W. Va. 343; Cooke v.
United States, 91 U. S. 389; Leather Mfrs. Nat. Bank
v. Morgan, 117 U. S. 96; Hoffman v. Bank of Milwaukee,
10 Wall. 181.
The Uniform Negotiable Instruments Act adopts the
doctrine in Price v. Neal as applicable to a" raised check,"
and puts an end to the distinction heretofore made between a "raised" check and one on which the drawer's
name is forged, even in cases where the drawer and
drawee are not the same.
The defendant in error, as a collecting bank, is not
liable in this action, because the plaintiff in error failed
to make demand for the return of the money before it
was paid over by the defendant in error to its principal.
The collecting bank which presents to the drawee a check
purporting to have been drawn by that drawee on him-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

270 U. S.

self has a perfect right to assume that if it is paid, the
drawee, who has knowledge of the facts, has used that
knowledge, and, when the collecting bank then pays the
money over to its principal, it would be most inequitable
for a court to change the loss which has thus been
occasioned rom the one whose negligence has occasioned
it to the one who has been without negligence. This
rule has been invariably applied in cases involving a
collecting bank, and is supported not only by the doctrine
in Price v. Neal, but also by the qualification to the right
to recover money paid under a mistake, that the recovery
can only be had provided the recipient of the payment
is not placed in a worse position.
It is true that the declaration in this case does not set
forth the date when the plaintiff in error made demand
upon the defendant in error for the return of the money,
but as it is essential to recovery that such demand be made
prior to the payment of the money by the defendant in
error to its principal, the Court will construe this ambiguity against the pleader, and assume that the demand
was not made until after the money had been so paid
over.
That the defendant ir error was a collecting bank is
shown by the indorsements on the check. The indorsement "Pay to the order of any bank, banker or trust company," placed thereon by the Bank of Commerce constituted the defendant in error as agent for collection only,
and was notice to the plaintiff in error of that fact.
Neither does the indorsement placed on the check by
the defendant in error, "Received payments through the
Baltimore Clearing House, Indorsements guaranteed,"
make it liable in this action. It is to be noted that there
is no intention here to transfer the paper, the indorsement
being nothing but a receipt for the payment of the money,
and therefore the only part to be considered is the effect
of the words "Indorsements guaranteed."

UNITED STATES v. NAT. EXCH. BANK. 533
527

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit brought by the United States to recover
the difference between the amount to which a check paid
by it had been fraudulently raised and the amount for
which the check was drawn. The case was heard upon
a demurrer to the declaration and the judgment was for
the defendant both in the District Court and in the Circuit Court of Appeals, 1 Fed. (2d) 888. The facts alleged
are as follows: A disbursing clerk drew a United States
Veterans' Bureau check upon the Treasurer of the United
States in favor of .one Beck, for $47.50. After it was
issued the check was changed so as to call for $4750.
Beck endorsed it to a bank of South Carolina and received the amount of the altered check. That bank endorsed it "Pay to the order of Any Bank, Banker, or
Trust Company. All prior endorsements guaranteed,
June 3, 1022," negotiated it to the defendant, and received
the same amount. The defendant endorsed the check
"Received Payment Through the Baltimore Clearing
House, Endorsements Guaranteed, June 5th, 1922," delivered it to and received the same amount from the Baltimore Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond,
the agent of the plaintiff, which forwarded the check to
the Treasurer of the United States and was given credit
for $4750. The Baltimore Branch had no notice of the
fraudulent change.
The Government argues that acceptance or payment
of a draft or check although it vouches for the signature
of the drawer does not vouch for the body of the instrument, Espy v. FirstNational Bank of Cincinnati,18 Wall.
604; that this rule is not changed by § 62 of the Uniform
Negotiable instruments Law, Article 13, § 81, Maryland
Code of Public General Laws: "The acceptor, by accepting the instrument, engages that he will pay it according
to the tenor of his acceptance?'; that the drawer and

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

drawee of the check were not the same in such sense as
to charge the drawee with knowledge of the amount of
the check, and that therefore the United States can recover as for money paid under a mistake of fact. The
defendant urges several considerations on the other side,
but it is enough to say that the last step in the Government's argument seems to us, as it did to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, unsound. If the drawer and the drawee re
the same the drawer cannot recover for an overpayment
to an innocent payee because he is bound to know his own
checks. Bank of United States v. Bank of Georgia, 10
Wheat. 333. In this case there is no doubt that in truth
the check was drawn by the United States upon itself.
The Government attempts to escape from this conclusion by the fact that the hand that drew and the hand
that was to pay were not tle same, and some language of
Chief Justice White as to what it is reasonable to require
the Government to know in paying out millions of pension claims. The number of the present check was
48218587. United States v. National Exchange Bank, 214
U. S. 302, 317. But the Chief Justice used that language
only to fortify his conclusion that the United States could
recover money paid upon a forged endorsement of a pension check. He cannot be understood to mean that great
business houses are held to less responsibility than small
ones. The United States does business on business terms.
Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389. It has been suggested that the grourid of recovery for a judgment under
a mistake of fact is that the fact supposed was the conventional basis or tacit condition of the transaction.
Dedham National Bank v. Everett National Bank, 177
Mass. 392, 395. If this be true, then when the United
States issues an order-upon itself it has notice of the
amount and when it comes to pay to an innocent holder
making a claim as of right it is at arm's length and takes
the risk. We are of opinion that the United States is

LIBERATO
527

ET AL.

v. ROYER

ET AL.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

not excepted from the general rule by the largeness of
its dealings and its having to employ agents to do what
if done by a principal in person would leave no room for
doubt.
Judgment affirmed.
LIBERATO ET AL. V. ROYER ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 214. Argued March 15, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
That part of- the elective Workmen's Compensation Act of Pennsylvania which denies compensation to alien parents not residents
of the United States, is not, as applied to a case of death without
negligence or fault, at variance with the Treaty with Italy, which
guarantees that the citizens of each country shall receive in the
Statbs and Territories of the other the "protection granted by any
State or national law which establishes a civil responsibility for
injuries or for death caused by negligence or fault and gives to
relatives or heirs of the injured party a right of action, which right
shall not be restricted on account of the nationality of said relatives or heirs," etc. P. 538.
281 Pa. 227, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania which sustained a judgment (81 Pa. Super. Ct.
403) denying a claim under the state Workmen's Compensation Law.

Messrs. William H. Neely and Paul A Kunkel, with
whom Mr. George R. Hull was on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error.
Under the Constitution of Pennsylvania, where there
is a death resulting from injuries a right of action survives to such persons as shall be designated by the legislature. It has been held that this constitutional provision,
and the various legislative enactments thereunder, created
a new and independent property right in the persons

