OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

270 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. P. KOENIG COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 216.

Argued March 16, 17, 1926.--Decided April 12, 1926.

1. Under § 1 of the Elkins Act, making it a misdemeanor for a
shipper knowingly to accept or receive any concession or discrimination in respect of transportation whereby property ehall be
transported at less than the published rate "or whereby any other
advantage is given or discrimination practiced," a shipper who
obtains coal cars and transportation in violation of an emergency
priority order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, through
practice of deceit upon the carrier with respect to the use to which
the coal is destined, is guilty of the offense. P. 517.
2. Guilty knowledge and collusion on the part of the carrier is not
an essential to the guilt of the shipper. Id.
1 Fed. (2d) 738, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court which sustained a demurrer to an indictment charging a shipper
with fraudulently obtaining concessions and discriminations from a carrier in coal shipments.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr.
William H. Bonneville, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United States.
The only question saved to defendant is the construction of the Elkins Act. The purpose of the act was "to
cut up by the roots every, form of discrimination, favoritism, and inequality" (Louisville & Nashville v. Mottley,
219 U. S. 467), and "to require equal treatment of all
shippers and prohibit unjust discrimination in favor of
any of them," and "to prevent favoritism by any means
or device whatsoever." United States v. Union Stock
Yards, 226 U. S. 286. "The Elkins Act proceeded upon
. " Armour Packing Co. V. United
broad lines .
States, 209 U. S. 56.

UNITED STATES v. KOENIG COAL CO.512

513

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The deception practiced upon the carriers by the false
and fraudulent device enabled the defendant to obtain the
unlawful concessions. No fine distinctions sought to be
drawn between acquisition of those concessions by trickery and deception on the part of the shipper, and the
action of carriers in knowingly granting them, will save
the defendant from the penalties of the statute. United
States v. Met. Lumber Co., 254 Fed. 335; United States v.
Vacuum Oil Co., 153 Fed. 598.
If the defendant may not be reached and punished under
the Elkins Act, the statute which provides for relief in
times of emergency, and all service orders issued in pursuance thereof, become practically useless, as there is no
other statute under which the Government may proceed.
United States v. Met. Lumber Co., 254 Fed. 335.
Mr. Harold Goodman, with whom Mr. Edwin R. Monning was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The receipt of a concession or discrimination whereby
an advantage is given or discrimination is practiced, necessarily involves the grant of a concession or the practice
of a discrimination by the carrier. The question is primarily the meaning of the statutory language. The
common and lexical meanings exclude those for which the
Government contends, and confirm the construction by
the court below. This is corroborated by the committee
report and the congressional debate.
The Government seeks a strained and novel construction not contemplated in those important cases in which
the Elkins Act was enforced. New York, New Haven,
etc. v. Commission, 200 U. S. 361; Armour Packing Co.
v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Lehigh Coal & Nay. Co. v.
United States, 250 U. S. 556; United States v. Union
Stockyards, 226 U. S. 286; Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 164 Fed. 376; North. Cent. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 241 Fed. 25. Section 10 of the Act to Regulate
100569°-26----33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Commerce defines in clear language the offense of fraud
upon the carriers, and, if it were the intention to include
similar acts within the scope of the Elkins Act, it would
have been simple to say so in apt language.
The district judge correctly considered United States
v. Met. Lumber Co., 254 Fed. 335, wrongly decided.
The gist of the offense here charged is a fraud upon
the carriers and a violation of service order No. 23. It
would have been competent for Congress to make violations of the Commission's rules a crime. Avent v. United
States, 266 U. S. 127. Whatever omissions there may be
in the penal sections of § 402, Transportation Act of 1920,
or in the Emergency Coal Act (September 22, 1922, 42
Stat. 1025), cannot authorize this Court to assume legislative functions and to apply the Elkins Act beyond the
scope indicated by its language.
- MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

TAFr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The P. Koenig Coal Company was indicted in the District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, under the
Elkins Act, for knowingly receiving as a shipper concessions from a carrier under the Interstate Commerce Act
in respect of transportation of property in interstate commerce obtained by deceitful representation made to the
carriers on which the carriers innocently and in good faith
relied. The District Court sustained a demurrer to the
indictment, and the United States prosecutes a writ of
error under the Criminal Appeals Act (Judicial Code, §
238, par. 2, as re-enacted by the Act df February 13, 1925,
43 Stat. 938, c. 229), Which provides that a writ of error
from the District Court may be taken directly to this
Court from a judgment sustaining a demurrer to any indictment or any count thereof where such judgment is
based upon the invalidity or construction of the statute
upon which the indictment is founded.

UNITED STATES v. KOENIG COAL CO. 515
512

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court held that § 1 of the Elkins Act of
February 19, 1903, c. 708, 32 Stat. 847 (re-enacted in § 2
of the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat.
587), under which the indictment was found, applies only
to a shipper who knowingly receives a concession from
a carrier when such concession is knowingly granted by
the carrier in equal guilt with the shipper. United States
v. The P. Koenig Coal Company, 1 Fed. (2d) 738.
The Koenig Coal Company is a Michigan corporation
doing business in Detroit. The defendant was indicted on
eighteen counts applying respectively to eighteen carloads of coal. The shipments originated in West Virginia,
and were moved to Detroit in August, 1922, over the
Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad Company as the initial carrier for each car.
On July 25, 1922, the Interstate Commerce Commission, acting under the Transportation Act of February 28,
1920, c. 91, Title 4, § 402, (15), 41 Stat. 456, 476, issued
its service order No. 23. Section 15 gives the Commission, when shortage of equipment, congestion of traffic or
other emergency requires action in any section of the
country, authority to suspend its rules as to car service,
and to make such reasonable rules with regard to it as in
the Commission's opinion will best promote the service
in the interest of the public and the commerce of the
people, and to give direction for performance or priority
in transportation or movement of traffic. Service Order
No. 23 declared that there was an emergency upon the
railroad lines east of the Mississippi River, and directed
that coal cars should be furnished to the mines according
to a certain order of purposes, numbered in classes 1, 2,
3, 4 and 5, and that no coal embraced in classes 1, 2, 3 and
4 should be subject to reconsignment, or diversion except
for some purpose in the same or a superior class. The
order required that the carriers should give preference
and priority in the placement and assignment of cars for

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

the loading of coal to those required for the current use
of hospitals, which were placed in class 2, in priority to
cars for the loading of coal required for the manufacture
of automobiles or automobile parts, which were placed in
class 5 and later in class 3. The order remained in force
from July 25 to September 20, 1922. The first count of
the indictment charged that the defendant, intending to
obtain a preference and priority in transportation, which
it was not then lawfully entitled to receive, and to procure the coal for the use of Dodge & Company, engaged
in the manufacture of automobiles and parts thereof,
sent a telegraphic order to the Monitor Coal & Coke Company of Huntington, West Virginia, asking the shipment
of carloads of coal to the Koenig Coal Company at Detroit for the use of the Samaritan Hospital; that it thereby
secured the furnishing by the C. & 0. Company, on
August 5, 1922, at the request of the Monitor Company,
of one car suitable for the loading and transportation of
coal on its line in West Virginia, which was billed and
consigned in accordance with the telegraphic order; that,
when it reached Detroit, the defendant diverted the car
to Dodge Brothers, who used the coal, the Samaritan Hospital not needing or requiring the coal, and not having
authorized or requested the defendant to send the order;
that the concession and discrimination was thus obtained
by a deceitful device of which the carriers had no knowledge. The other seventeen counts are similar and refer
to different cars of coal, some of them to different mines
and consignors and some to different beneficiaries of the
trick as actual consumers of the coal.
The demurrer challenged the indictment on various
grounds, 1st, that the facts charged did not constitute a
concession given or a discrimination practiced as defined
by the Elkins Act; 2d, that the restrictions imposed by
the Interstate Commerce Commission's Service Order No.
23 were beyond the power of the Interstate Commerce

UNITED STATES v. KOENIG COAL CO. 517
512

Opinion of the Court.

Commission in that they were an exercise of purely legislative power which could not be delegated; 3rd, that the
service order exceeded the authority conferred upon the
Interstate Commerce Commission; 4th, in that it was
beyond the power of the Federal Government thus to
affect the use, consumption, price and disposition of coal
in what was the exercise of a local police power reserved
to the States; 5th, that the order is so arbitrary and
unreasonable as not to be within the power of the National Government and to be an encroachment on the
powers of the several States; 6th, that the service order
violated the Fifth Amendment in depriving defendant
of liberty and property without due process of law, and,
7th, that it was invalid because it gave preference to the
Lake Erie ports of Ohio and Pennsylvania over the ports
of other States in respect of the transportation and shipment of coal.
All of these objections, except the first and third, are
covered by the decision of this Court in Avent v. United
States, 266 U. S. 127, where we held that Congress might
consistently with the Fifth Amendment require a preference in the order of purposes for which coal might be
carried in interstate commerce; that it did not trench
upon the power reserved to the States; that the power
might be delegated to the Interstate Commerce Commission for exercise under rules that were reasonable and
in the interests of the public and of commerce; that
the violation of such rules might be made a crime; and
that the objection that the order unconstitutionally preferred the ports of one State over those of another
could not avail a party whom the alleged preference did
not concern.
Counsel. for the defendant in his brief and argument
supports the demurrer solely upon the same ground upon
which the District Court sustained it, namely, that the
offense under which the indictment ia drawn can not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

committed without the guilty knowledge and collusion
of both the shipper and the carrier. The relevant part
of § 1 of the Elkins Act reads as follows:
"It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or corporation to offer, grant, or give or to solicit, accept or
receive any rebate, concession or discrimination in respect
to the transportation of any property in interstate or
foreign commerce by any common carrier subject to said
Act to regulate commerce and the Acts amendatory
thereto whereby any such property shall by any device
whatever be transported at a less rate than that named
in the tariffs published and filed by such carrier, as is
required by said Act to regulate commerce and the Acts
amendatory thereto, or whereby any other advantage is
given or discrimination is practiced. Every person or
corporation, whether carrier or shipper, who shall knowingly offer, grant or give or solicit, accept or receive any
such rebates, concession or discrimination shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000, nor more.
than $20,000."
This makes it unlawful for anyone to receive any concession in respect of transportation of any property in
interstate commerce by a common carrier whereby any
advantage is given or any discrimination is practiced.
The facts charged bring what was done exactly within
this description. It was a priority or preference in securing the transportation of coal in an emergent congestion of the traffic. It was certainly a concession and one
of value to one who under the law or the regulations
having the force of law could not secure that priority.
The words advantage, concession and discrimination in
the statute must be construed to mean unlawful concession, unlawful advantage, unlawful discrimination. It
certainly was not the intention of Congress to punish the
granting or receiving of a lawful concession, a lawful ad-

UNITED STATES v. KOENIG COAL CO.
512

519

Opinion of the Court.

vantage or a lawful discrimination. It is asked, if this
was a concession, by whom was it conceded?: The answer is by the carrier. He granted the priority and therefore he made the concession and gave the advantage and
practiced the discrimination., But it was unlawful and
he did not know the facts which made it so. The shipper
knew them because he had secured it by his deceit, and
received it. What is there in the statute that releases
him from guilt, because the carrier who yielded to him
the concession and gave him the advantage and made the
discrimination thought it was lawful?
Reference is made to the debates in Congress and to
decisions of this Court te show that, in the *minds of the
legislators in enacting the Elkins Act, the discrimination
and inequality they- sought to prevent had in the past
arisen chiefly from collusion between the carrier and the
shipper. As practical men of course they knew that this
was the way in which violations of the law were most
likely to occur. But this does not at all justify the conclusion that Congress in enacting the Elkins law intended
to limit the offenses described in it to cases of collusion,
if otherwise the acts charged came within the words of
the statute.
We have often declared that the purpose of Congress
in the Elkins law was to cut up by the roots every form
of discrimination, favoritism and inequality. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 478;
New Haven R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361, 391; Armour Packing Co. v. United
States, 209 U. S. 56, 72; United'Statesv. The UnionStock
Yards, 226 U. S. 286, 309. It would be contrary, therefore, to the general intent of the law to restrain the effect
of the language used so as not to include acts exactly
described, when they clearly effect discrimination and
inequality. Certainly no one would say that a shipper
might not be convicted under the act of soliciting an un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U.S.

lawful concession or advantage or discrimination, even
though the carrier refused to extend it to him. So, too,
if a carrier offers an unlawful advantage to a shipper who
declines it, clearly the carrier may be indicted and punished. Collusion is not necessary in such a case. Why
in this? The act is plainly not confined to joint crimes.
The general rule that criminal statutes are to be strictly
construed has no application when the general purpose
of the legislature is manifest and is subserved by giving
the words used in the statute their ordinary meaning and
thus covering the acts charged.
In Dye v. United States, 262 Fed. 6, a defendant in an
indictment under the Elkins Act was the agent of a carrier and was in charge of the distribution of -ars between
coal mines during an emergency and car shortage. By
a device, he violated the rule of distribution established
by the Commission and secured an excessive number of
cars for a particular mine, the operators of which were.
innocent of the inequality. He did this for his personal
profit by sale of the excess. His conviction was sustained
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
In Missouri, Kansas & Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657, the Court had to deal with the question whether a shipper who valued his goods for the purpose of obtaining the lower of two published rates based
on valuation was, in an action for their loss, estopped
from recovering a greater amount than his own valuation,
the carrier having no knowledge of the value of the shipment. It was held that he was estopped. In reaching
this conclusion, Mr. Justice Lurton, speaking for the
Court, at page 671, said:
"If he knowingly declares an undervaluation for the
purpose of obtaining the lower of two published rates, he
thereby obtains an advantage and causes a. discrimination
forbidden and made unlawful by the first section of the
Elkins Aci of February 19, 1903 (32 Stat. 847, c. 708)."

UNITED STATES v. MICH. CEMENT CO. 521
Counsel for the United States.

512

It is true that this was said arguendo, but it has persuasive weight, and, now that the point is before us for
judgment, we reaffirm it. Compare also Illinois Central

Railroad Co. v. Messina, 240 U. S. 395, 397.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. MICHIGAN PORTLAND
CEMENT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 217.

Argued March 16, 17, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. A shipper may be guilty of the offense of obtaining an unlawful
concession, in violation of § 1 of the Elkins Act, without guilty
knowledge or collusion on the part of the carrier. United States v.
P. Koenig Coal Co., ante, p. 512. P. 523.
2. A preference consisting of an assignment and transportation of
coal cars contrary to a priority order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission violates § 1 of the Elkins Act, no publication of such
an order in the carrier's tariff being necessary. P. 524.
3. The Transportation Act, § 402, par. 15, authorized the Commission to fix priorities with reference to transportation as well as the
furnishing of cars. P. 525.
4. An order of the Commission affecting the furnishing, loading, and
consignment of cars, construed and held applicable to transportation as well as car service. Id.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining

a demurrer to an indictment. alleging that the shipper obtained priority in transportation of coal in violation of
the Elkins Act.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. William H.' Bonneville, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United. States.

