UNITED STATES v, COHN.
320

Argument for the United States.

dismissal of this action, then pending, should have followed. Our decision in No. 401 controls this case.
Judgments in Nos. 401, 402, 403, 404,
398, 899, 400, 499 and 500 affirmed.
Judgment in No. 36 reversed.
MR. JUSTIce. HOLMES took no

part in the consideration

of these cases.

UNITED STATES v. COHN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 130.

Submitted January 13, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Obtaining the possession of non-dutiable goods from a collector is
not obtaining the approval of a " claim upon or against" the

Government, within the meaning of § 65 of the Pefial Code, as
amended October 23, 1918. P. 345.
2. Neither is the wrongful obtaining of such goods from a collector
a "defrauding" of the Government within the meeting of this
section, since it deals with defrauding only in the primary sense
of cheating out of property or money; therein differing from
§ 37, which extends to conspiracies to defraud in he secondary
sense of obstructing governmental functions by fraudulent means.
P. 346.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining
a demurrer to an indictment.

Solicitor General Mitchell and Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan were on the brief, for the United
States.
Under the facts as set forth in the indictment, the
defendant was not entitled to make entry.
Section 35 of the Penal Code, properly construed, applies to the fraud in this case. In the absence c decisions
construing this section, we may properly resort to de-

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for the United States.

270 U. S.

cisions under § 37, penalizing conspiracies to defraud the
Government, which extends to all deceitful practices for
procuring official action not warranted by law or regulations. United States v. Plyler, 222 U. S. 15; Haas v.
Henkel, 216 U. S. 462; United States v. Barnow, 239
U. S. 74; United States v. Foster, 233 U. S. 515; Wolf v.
United States, 283 Fed. 885; United States v. Brokerage
Co., 262 Fed. 459; United States v. Fung Sam Wing, 254
Fed. 500; Curley v. United States, 130 Fed. 1; Hammerschmidt v. United States, 265 U. S. 182.
The possession of valuable goods has been surrendered.
It makes no difference that the ultimate title was not in
the Collector or in the United States, or that the goods
were entitled to entry as "free goods" without the payment of duty, under Art. 192 of the Customs Reguilations
of 1915. They were none the less required to be entered,
and the Collector was entitled to custody of them in the
orderly administration of the revenue laws. Of that
possession he has been deprived by. "deceit, craft, or
trickery." It is submitted that, under every test known
to the law, a fraud has been perpetrated, and that it is
properly punishable under § 35 of the Penal Code.
Section 35 of the Penal Code, as amended, is no longer
restricted to frauds committed in the presentation of
"claims" against the Government, but, by the amendment of 1918, the scope of the section was materially
widened; and the element of a "claim" is no longer
essential. The section punishes the concealment or misrepresentation of material facts whenever the defendant's
purpose is to obtain the payment or approval of a claim,
or to cheat and swindle or defraud the United States or
any department thereof. Even if the element of a
"claim" is held necessary to establish a case, that element is here present. Bouvier L. Dict. Vol. 1, p. 332;
Co. Litt. 291b; Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539;
Cornell v. Travellers' Insurance Co., 175 N. Y. 239. It

UNITED STATES v. COHN.
339

Opinion of the Court.

has repeatedly been held that offenses which involve the
"presenting of false claims against the United States"
are not confined to claims for money alone, or to matters
over which the Court of Claims might have jurisdiction.
United States v. Davis, 231 U. S. 183; United States v.
Spalding, 3 Dak. 85; United States v. Bickford, Fed. Cas.
No. 14591; United States v. Wilcox, Fed. Cas. No. 16691.
Messrs. Benjamin P. Epstein and Bernhardt Frank
were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Cohn, the-defendant in error, was indicted in the District Court for a violation of § 35 of the Penal Code, as
amended by the Act of October 23, 1918, c. 194, 40 Stat.
1015. This entire section is set forth in the mrgin.'
'"Sec. 35. Whoever shall make or cause to be made or present or
cause to be presented, for payment or approval, to or by any person
or officer in the civil, military, or naval service of the United States,
or any department thereof, or any corporation in which the United
States of America is a stockholder, any claim upon or against the
Government of the United Stales, or any department or officer
thereof, or any corporation in which the United States of America is
a stockholder, knowingsuch claim to be false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
or whoever, for the puA'ose of obtaining or aiding to obtain the payment or approval of such claim, -or for the purpose and with the
intent of cheating and swindling or defrauding the Government of
the'United States, or any department thereof, or any eorporation in
which the United States of America is a stockholder, shall knowingly
and willfully falsify or conceal or cover up by any trick, scheme, or
device a material fact, or make or cause to be made any false or
fraudulent statements or representations, or make or use or cause to
be made or used any false bill, receipt, voucier, roll, account, claim,
certificate, affidavit, or deposition, knowing the same to contain any
fraudulent or fictitious statement or entry; or whoever shall take
and carry away or take for his own use, or for the use of another,
with intent to' steal or purloin, any personal property of the United
States, or any branch or department thereof, or any corporation in

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

The indictment was dismissed, on demurrer, upon the
ground that the statute did not make the matters charged
a crime against the United States.' This writ of error was
then allowed by the District Judge under the provision of
which the United States of America is a stockholder; or whoever
shall enter into any agreement, combination, or conspiracy to defraud
*the Government of the United States, or any department or officer
thereof, or any corporation in which the United States of America is
a stockholder, by obtaining or aiding to obtain the payment or
allowance of any false or fraudulent claim; and whoever, having
charge, possession, custody, or control of any money or other public
property used or to be used in the military or naval service, with
intent to defraud the United States, or any department thereof, or
any corporation in which the United States of America is a stockholder, or willfully to conceal such money or other property, shall
deliver or cause to be delivered to any person having authority to
receive the same any amount of such money or other property less
than that for which he received a certificate or took a receipt; or
whoever, being authorized to make or deliver any certificate, voucher,
receipt, or other paper certifying the receipt of arms, ammunitiki.
provisions, clothing, or other property so used or to be used, shall
make or deliver the same to any other person without a full knowledge of the truth of the facts stated therein and with intent to
defraud the United States, or any department thereof, or any' corporation in which the United States of America is a stockholder; shall
be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten
years, or both. And whoever shall purchase, or receive in pledge,
from any person any arms, eqjuipment, ammunition, clothing, rHlitary
stores, or other property furnished by the United States, under a
clothing allowance or otherwise, to any soldier, sailor, officer, cadet,
or midshipman in the military or naval service of the United States
or of the National Guard or Naval Militia, or to any person accompanying, serving, or retained with the land or naval forces and
subject to military or naval law, having knowledge or reason to
believe that the property has been taken from the possession of the
United States or furnished by the United States under such allowance, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than
two years, or both."
2"This appears from a certificate filed by the District Judge after
the entry of the judgment and before the allowance of the writ of
error.

UNITED STATES v. COHN.
339

Opinion of the Court.

the Criminal Appeals Act,3 permitting the United States a
direct writ of error from a judgment sustaining a demurrer
to an indictment, based upon the construction of the
statute upon which the indictment is founded. United
States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 535.
The statute provides, inter alia, that: Whoever "for
the purpose of obtaining or aiding to obtain the payment
or approval of" any "claim upon or against the Government of the United States, or any department or officer
thereof, or any corporation in which the United States of
America is a stockholder," or "for the purpose and with
the intent of cheating and swindling or defrauding the
Government of the United States, or any department
thereof," or any such corporation, "shall knowingly and
willfully falsify or conceal or cover up by any trick,
scheme, or device a material fact, or make or cause to be
made any false or fraudulent statements or representations or make or use or cause to be made or used any false
bill, receipt, voucher," etc., shall be punishable by fine or
imprisonment, or both.
The indictment charged that Cohn, for the purpose of
obtaining the approval of a claim against the Government
and the Treasury Department to the possession of imported merchandise, and for the purpose and with the
intent of defrauding the Government and the Treasury
Department through a perversion and obstruction of the
custom-house function and of the propel and orderly administration of the laws of the United States and the
regulations of the Department, had concealed and covered
up material facts by a trick, scheme or device, and had
knowingly caused false and fraudulent statements to be
made, as follows:
In October, 1920, a certain lot of cigars arrived at
Chicago from the Philippine Islands for entry at the
custom-house, and came into the possession of the col"Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

lector of customs. They were consigned to order "notify
Cohn Bros. Cigar Co.," the name under which Cohn conducted his business. The next day, a Chicago Bank received from a Philippine Bank a bill of lading covering the
cigars, indorsed in blank by the consignor, with an attached draft drawn by the consignor upon the Cigar Co.,
and instructions to deliver the bill of lading only upon
payment of the draft. Two days later, the draft not
having been paid, Cohn, knowing these facts, fraudulently
procured certain custom-house brokers to make entry of
the cigars and obtain possession of them from the collector
by giving a bond for the producti'rn of the bill of lading.
The possession of the cigars was thus secured by Cohn
upon false and fraudulent statements and representations
made by him to the brokers, and through them, as his
innocent agents, to the collector, that the bill of lading
had not arrived in Chicago and that he was entitled to the
entry and possession of the cigars, and the fraudulent concealment by him from the brokers and the collector of
the material facts that the bill of lading and attached
draft had arrived in Chicago, with the condition stated,
and that the draft had not then been paid; thereby inducing the collector to deliver the possession of the cigars,
when he "would and should have refused so to do" if he
had known these facts and that Cohn consequently had
no right to make the entry or obtain possession of the
cigars.
While the cigars were admissible into the United States
free of duty, the Customs Regulations nevertheless required that they should be entered at the custom-house.
Arts. 192, 215. The Regulations also provided that a bill
of lading was necessary to establish the right to make the
entry, Art. 219; that merchandise consigned to order
should be deemed the property of the holder of a bill of
lading indorsed by the consignor, Art. 219;' that such
' This Regulation embodied a provision in Svc. III, 13 of the Tariff
Act of 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 181.

UNITED STATES v. COHN.
339

Opinion of the Court.

holder might make the entry, Art. 220; and, further, that
the collector might in his discretion permit entry to be
made without the production of the bill of lading, on a
bond conditioned for its subsequent production and indemnifying him against any loss or damage which might
be sustained by reason of such permission. Customs
Regulations of 1915, pp. 126, 138, 140.
We may assume, without deciding, that under these
Regulations Cohn was not entitled to enter and obtain
possession of the cigars until he had paid the draft and
become the holder of the bill of lading. But even so, the
acts by which the possession of the cigars were obtained
did not constitute an offense against the United States
unless done for one or other of the purposes entering into
the statutory definition of the offense and charged in the
indictment, that is, either for the purpose of obtaining
the approval of a "claim upon or against" the Government or for the purpose of " defrauding" the Government.
It is contended by the United States that, although the
cigars were duty free, the facts alleged in the indictment
show that their possession was wrongfully obtained for
both of these purposes. We cannot sustain this contention in either of its aspects.
Obtaining the possession of non-dutiable merchandise
from a collector is not obtaining the approval of a "claim
upon or against" the Government, within the meaning of
the statute. While the word "claim" may sometimes be
used in the broad juridical sense of "a demand of some
matter as of right made by one person upon another, to
do or to forbear to do some act or thing as a matter of
duty," Prigg v. Pennsylvania,16 Pet. 539, 615, it is clear,
in the light of the entire context, that in the present
statute, the provision relating to the payment or approval
of a "claim upon or against" the Government relates
solely to the payment or approval of a claim for money
or property to which a right is asserted against the Gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

ernment, based upon the Government's own liability to
the claimant. And obviously it does not include an application for the entry and delivery of non-dutiable merchandise, as to which no claim is asserted against the
Government, to which the Government makes no claim,
and which is merely in the temporary possession of an
agent of the Government for delivery to the person who
may be entitled to its possession. This is not the assertion of a "claim upon or against" the Government, within
the meaning of the statute; and the delivery of the possession is not the "approval" of such a claim.
Neither is the wrongful obtainir g of possession of such
non-dutiable merchandise a "defrauding" of the Government within the meaning of the statute. It is contended
by the United States that, by analogy to the decisions in
Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, 479, and Hammerschmidt
v. United States, 265 U. S. 182, 188, and other cases involving the construction of § 37 of the Penal Code relating
to conspiracies to defraud the United States, the word
" defrauding" in the present statute should be construed
as being used not merely in its primary sense of cheating
the Government out of property or money, but also in the
secondary sense of interfering with or obstructing one of
its lawful governmental functions by deceitful and fraudulent means. The language of the two statutes is, however, so essentially different as to destroy the weight of
the supposed analogy. Section 37, by its specific terms,
extends broadly to every conspiracy "to defraud the
United States in any manner and for any purpose," with
no words of limitation whatsoever, and no limitation that
can be implied from the context. Section 35, on the other
hand, has no words extending the meaning of the word
"defrauding" beyond its usual and primary sense. On
the contrary it is used in connection with the words
"cheating or swindling," indicating that it is to be construed in the manner in which those words are ordinarily

CHAMBERLAIN MACH. WORKS v. U. S.
339

347

Couuisel for Parties.

used, as relating to the fraudulent causing.of pecuniary or
pr'operty loss. And this meaning is emphasized by other
provisions of the section in which the word "defraud"
is used in reference to the obtaining of money or other
property from the Government by false claims, vouchers
and the like; and by the context of the entire section,
which deals with the wrongful obtaining of money and
other property of the Government, with no reference to
the impairment Or obstruction of its governmental functions.
We hence conclude that the indictment did not show,
within the meaning of § 35 of the Penal Code, either the
purpose of obtaining the approval of a "claim upon, or
against" the United States and the Treasury Department,
or the purpose and intent of "defrauding" them. The
demurrer was rightly sustained; and the judgment of the
District Court is
Affirmed.
CHAMBERLAIN MACHINE WORKS v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 123.

Argued January 12, 13, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

A petition relying upon fraud and coercion to overcome a release of
the claim sued on, must state distinctly the particular acts, specifying by whom and in what manner they were perpetrated, so that
the court may see that, if proven, they would warrant the settingaside of the settlement.
59 Ct. Cls. 972, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition on demurrer.

Mr. Raymond M. Hudson, with whom Mr. Burton E.
Sweet was on the brief, for appellant.

