CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS, SAN FRANCISCO
& TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. WABASH RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 91 and 92.

Argued November 16, 1925.M-Decided January 18,
1926.

1. Transportation Act, 1920, amending par. 3, § 16, of the Interstate
Commerce Act, provides: "All actions at law by carriers subject
to this Act for recovery of their charges, or any part thereof, shall
be begun within three years from the time the cause of action accrues and not after." Held not applicable retroactively to causes
of action existing at the date of the Transportation Act. P. 3.
2. The Act of June 7, 1924, which further amended par. 3, § 16, of
the Interstate Commerce Act, among other things by adding that
its provisions "shall extend to and embrace cases in which the
cause of action has heretofore accrued as Well as cases in which
the cause of action may hereafter accrue," was not intended to
defeat claims on which suits duly brought were then pending, or
in which judgment had already been entered. Id.
59 Ct. Cls. 322, affirmed.
100569 o-26-----1

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

from judgments recovered in the Court of
Claims by two railroads for transportation service rendered to the Government.
APPEALS

Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
briefs, for the United States.
Mr. Lawrence H. Cake, with whom Mr. Alex. Britton.
was on the brief, for appellee in No. 91.
Mr. F. Carter Pope, for appellee in No. 92.
Messrs. William R. Harr and Charles H. Bates filed a
brief as amici curice, by special leave of Court.
MR. JusTiCE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases, which were argued together, present on
similar facts the same question of law. In each the
railroad had, prior to federal control, rendered to the
War Department transportation service, payment for
which was disallowed by the Auditor. Each company
commenced suit therefor in the Court of Claims more
than three years but within six years from the time when
the cause of action accrued, and after the lapse of three
years from the enactment of Transportation Act, 1920,
February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456. That Act, amending paragraph 3 of § 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
provides:
"All actions at law by carriers subject to this Act for
recovery of their charges, or any part thereof, shall be
begun within three years from the time the cause of
action accrues and not after."
The Government defended these suits solely on the
ground that the right to sue had been lost by lapse of
time. It contended that the three-year limitation ap-

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS,
I

ETC.

RY. CO.

3

Opinion of the Court.

plies to claims against the Government prosecuted in the
Court of Claims, as well as to actions brought against
other shippers in other courts; that it applies to claims
which arose prior to the passage of the 1920 Act; that
the three-year period began at the date when the cause
of action accrued, provided there remained, at the passage of the Act, a reasonable time before the expiration
of the three years within which suit could have been
brought; and that, in any event, suit on such claims is
barred where, as in the cases at bar, the suit is commenced more than three years after the passage of the
1920 Act. In each of these cases judgment was entered
for the plaintiff. Wabash Ry. Co. v. United States, 59
Ct. Cl. 322; see also Schaff, Receiver, v. United States,
59 Ct. Cl. 318. An appeal to this Court, under §§ 242
and 243 of the Judicial Code, was taken in each case
before June 7, 1924.
That a statute shall not be given retroactive effect
unless such construction is required by explicit language
or by necessary implication is a rule of general application. It has been applied by this Court to statutes governing procedure, United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 306; and specifically to
the limitation of actions under another section of Transportation Act, 1920. Fullerton-Krueger Lumber Co. v.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 266 U. S. 435. There is nothing in the language of paragraph 3 of § 16, or in any other
provision of the Act, or in its history, which requires us
to hold that the three-year limitation applies, under any
circumstances, to causes of action existing at the date of
the Act.
The Government contends that, even if the suits were
not barred by Transportation Act, 1920, they were barred
by the Act of June 7, 1924, c. 235, 43 Stat. 633, which
amended paragraph 3, among other things, by making
the following addition thereto:

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

4

Syllabus.

270 U. S.

"(h) The provisions of this paragraph (3) shall extend
to and embrace cases in which the cause of action has
heretofore accrued as well as cases in which the cause of
action may hereafter accrue.
The Senate and House Reports accompanying the bill
(S. 2704) state that the purpose of the amendment was
to revive claims barred under the existing law as interpreted in Kansas City Ry. Co. v. Wolf, 261 U. S. 133. It is
not to be assumed that Congress intended by that amendment to defeat claims on which suits duly brought were
then pending, or on which, as in the cases at bar, judgment had already been entered below. Compare Herrick
v. Boquillas Land & Cattle Co., 200 U. S. 96.
As we hold that paragraph 3 does not apply to any
cause of action existing at the date of the passage of
Transportation Act, 1920, we have no occasion to consider whether, under any circumstances, it is applicable
to claims against the Government brought in the Court
of Claims pursuant to § 145, Judicial Code. See Western
Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States, 59 Ct. Cl. 67, 81.
Affirmed.
H. E. CROOK COMPANY, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 122.

Argued January 12, 1926.-Decided January 25, 1926.

Where a contract for furnishing and installing heating plants in
buildings to be erected for the Government by other contractors
showed on its face that progress under it would be dependent on
the progress of the buildings, and, though strictly limiting the
time for the contractor's performance, made no reference to delays
by the Government save as grounds for time extensions to the
contractor; and the contractor therein agreed to accept the contract price in full satisfaction for all work done under the contract,
reduced by damages deducted for its delays and increased or reduced by the price of any changes ordered by the Government, and
stipulated that the contract price should cover all expenses of any

