230

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
270 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

that confirmation of the Spanish grant by Congress followed by survey of the land passed the legal title. We
can see no reason to depart from this view. The title of
Mary Ann Davis dates from 1847. For more than seventy years thereafter appellants and their predecessors
failed to assert their rights, if any, by legal proceedings.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals "that it is
too late now to enter into the merits of a claim of title
which could have been asserted and enforced if good, and
rejected if bad, while the witnesses who knew about it
were living and could have testified with reference to it."
The decree is
Affirmed.

SCHLESINGER

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS,

CONSIN

ETC., V.

WIS-

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

No. 146.

Argued January 18, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. A conclusive statutory presumption that all gifts of a material

part of a decedent's estate made by him within six years of his
death were made in contemplation of death,-whereby they become
,subjected, without regard to his actual intent in making the gifts,
to graduated inheritpnce taxes,-creates an arbitrary classification and conflicts with the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 239.
2. Such arbitrary classification, and consequent taxation, can not be
sustained upon the ground that legislative discretion found them
necessary in order to prevent evasion of inheritance taxes. P. 240.
3. The State is forbidden to deny due process of law, or the equal
protection of the laws, for any purpose whatever; and a forbidden
tax can not be enforced in order to facilitate the collection of one
properly laid. Id.
184 Wise. 1, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin sustaining an inheritance tax.

Mr. Charles F. Fawsett, for plaintiffs in error.

SCHLESINGER v. WISCONSIN.
230

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Under the statute, as construed by the court, some
donees of property are permitted to prove that their gifts
were not made in contemplation of death, and thus avoid
the tax, while others are not so permitted, but are subjected to the payment of the tax as the result of the
conclusive presumption made by the statute that their
gifts were made in contemplation of death although the
fact be otherwise. That the legislature has no power to
enact such a conclusive presumption is established by the
authorities, without exception. Bailey v. Alabama, 219
U. S. 219; Cockrill v. California,268 U. S. 528; Mobile
J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35; Larson v.
Dickey, 39 Neb. 463; Howard v. Moot, 64 N. Y. 268;
M. K. & T. Ry. v. Simonson, 64 Kans. 802; Vega S. S.
Co. v. Cons. El. Co., 75 Minn. 309; Cooley's Const.
Limit'ns. (7th ed.) 526; 10 Ruling Case Law, 863. In re
Barbour's Estate, 185 N. Y. App. Div. 445; Bannon v.
Burnes, 39 Fed. 892; Marx v. Hanthorn, 30 Fed. 579;
Abbott v. Lindenbower, 42 Mo. 162; Wantlan v. White,
19 Ind. 470; White v. Flynn, 23 Ind. 46; McCready v.
Sexton, 29 Iowa 356; Allen v. Armstrong, 16 Iowa 508;
Groesbeck v. Seeley, 13 Mich. 330; In re Douglass, 41 La.
Ann. 765.
To justify such a tax, the necessary basis of fact must
.exist to invoke the taxing power to impose
it. The legislature can make the law apply to the facts. It cannot
make the facts to which the law is to apply. When the
legislature undertakes to engraft upon .a simple gift inter
vivos the legal import of a gift made in contemplation
of death, it is giving to it the legal import of a fact of
an essentially different nature. If the legislature can do
this in the case of such a simple fact as an ordinary gift
inter vivos, there is no reason why it cannot do the same
in the case of any fact, and attach to it the legal consequences of a fact of an entirely different nature.
A gift may be made in contemplation of death at any
time during life, and it is equally true that one may be

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

270 U. S.

made without any thought of death at any time during
life, if gifts causa mortis are excepted. It is also common
knowledge and experience that six years is ample time
within which a person may contract even a chronic disease, and die of it. If it is permissible to enter the
field of speculation, we think it may safely be said, that
the great majority of people who die were not contemplating or thinking particularly about death as long as
six years before the event occurred.
The fact that those gifts not made in contemplation of
death, which are nevertheless taxed by the statute as
gifts made in contemplation of death, may be a minority
rather than a majority of all the gifts covered by the
statute, cannot affect the constitutional objection. The
rights of the minority under the Constitution are entitled
to protection as well as those of the majority. Cf. Ex
parte Reilly, 94 Ala. 82; Bailey v. State, 158 Ala. 25.
As to the "public necessity of not allowing large estates to escape the provisions of the law," this necessity
should not be allowed to supersede the right of the individual taxpayer to have the question of his liability to the
tax fairly determined. The legislature can not do by indrection that which, admittedly, it has no power to do
directly. Choctaw 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison, 235 U. S.
292; St. Louis S. TV. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350.
The classification is invalid because it includes gifts not
made in contemplation of death if made within six years
prior to the death of the donor, but does not include other
gifts of like character made under like circumstances and
conditions. Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412;
Southern R. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Black v. State,
113 Wis. 205; Borgniss v. Falk, 147 Wis. 327; Nunnemacher v. State, 129 Wis. 190; Johnson v. City of Milwaukee, 88 Wis. 383.
The classification, insofar as it includes gifts not made
in contemplation of death merely because they were made

SCHLESINGER v. WISCONSIN.
230

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

within six years prior to the death of the donor, is arbitrary and unreasonable. Gulf C. & S. F.Ry. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150; Southern R. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400;
Black v. State, 113 Wis. 205. Under the decisions of
the Supreme Court of the State, the tax is imposed according to the value of the, property, and at the rates in
force, at the time of the death of the donor. Estate of
Stephenson, 171 Wis. 452. Until the death of the donor,
or the expiration of six years, no one can tell what the
amount of the tax will be, or whether there will be any
tax. The tax is upon the transfer made by the gift, but it
is not determined, either as to amount or whether or not
there will be a tax, by the fact of the transfer or by any
circumstances or conditions existing at the time; but by a
contingency in the future entirely disconnected with the'
transfer, in no way related to it and entirely beyond
human control.
The right to make an ordinary gift of money or property, which may be completed by manual delivery, is a
property right. Because the gifts in this case include
property of that character, and the tax imposed is at a
progressive rate, different from other property taxes, the
statute denies to plaintiffs in error the equal protection
of the law. Keeney v. New York, 222 U. S. 525; Thomas
v. United States, 192 U. S.363; St. L. & S. W. Ry. Co. v.
Arkansas, 235 U. S.350; Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries
& Warehouse Co., 255 U. S. 288; Knowlton v. Moore,
178 U. S. 41; Wynehamer v. People, 13 N. Y. 378; Ruling
Case Law, vol. 26, §§ 19, 210. The tax is imposed at a
progressive rate which could not be justified except on the
theory that the legislature has practically a free hand to
impose any rate it pleases even to the point of confiscation of the property. Beals v. State, 139 Wis. 544. To
annul the amendment will result merely in leaving the
statute imposing the tax on inheritances and gifts made
in contemplation of death, as it w.as before the amendment, without serious consequences to the State.

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

270 U. S.

Mr. Franklin E. Bump, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, with whom Mr. Herman L. Ekern, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for defendants in error.
The classification for the purposes of the inheritance
tax of all gifts made within a reasonable time before the
donor's death as gifts made in contemplation of death is
an administrative necessity, and has such a substantial
relation to the object of the taxing statute that it is reasonably founded in the purposes and policies of taxation,
and is therefore valid; and the imposition of taxes accordingly neither takes property without due process of
law nor denies the equal protection of the laws to the recipients of such gifts. The power of the legislature to impose an excise tax upon the recipient of all transfers of
property inter vivos, made with or without adequate valuable consideration, and whether made in contemplation
of death or otherwise, cannot be successfully challenged. Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152.' It is enough
that the classification is reasonably founded in the "pur -.
poses and policies of taxation." Stebbins v. Riley, 268
U. S. 137.
The classification was made in the exercise of legislative judgment and discretion, for the legitimate purpose
of preventing a common and effective method (adopted
particularly by men of wealth) of evasion of the inheritance taxes imposed upon the recipients of transfers of
property by will or descent; and the fact that that classification results in the discrimination complained of, between gifts made within the six year period and those
made without that period, is no objection to the classification, when viewed in the light of the object and purpose u the legislature in making it. Stebbins v. Riley,
supra.
The inducement for, and the object and purpose of, the
amendment is well stated in the case of Estate of Ebe'ling, 169 Wis. 432. It may be noted also that the Wis-

SCHLESINGER v. WISCONSIN.
230

Argumefit for Defendants in Error.

consin Tax Commission, (which is charged with the duty
of administering the inheritance tax law,) in its report to
the Governor and the Legislature of the State, (under
date of December 3, 1912, and laid before the legislature
of 1913,) which enacted the statute in question, made,
among several recommendations for amendments to the
law based upon its experience with the difficulties of enforcement, the following: "3. . . . At present large estates, or large portions of an estate may be, and frequently are, conveyed during the latter years of the owner's life to his children, in a manner that is clearly testamentary in its nature, yet that cannot readily be proved
to have been made either in contemplation of death nor
to evade the tax. The law should be made as broad in
its language as it is in its purpose." In re Uihlein's Will,
187 Wis. 101.
A rebuttable presumption would be ineffectual. A
number of the States besides Wisconsin have determined
that it is necessary to the eiforcement of their inheritance
or succession tax laws to put all gifts made within a
certain determined period (varying from two to six years)
before death in the class of those made in contemplation
of death, and to declare that all gifts made within such
period shall be so deemed or construed. McElroy, The
Law of Taxable Transfers, (2d ed.) 109.
The classification which the statute m,-kes is so substantially related to the object of the taxing law that it
must be upheld as reasonably founded in the State's purposes and policies of taxation. Watson v. Comptroller,
254 U. S. 122. Plaintiffs in error do not complain of the
amount of the tax imposed, but only of the imposition
of any tax at all. There is therefore no taking of property without due process of law. Dane v. Jackson, 256
U. S. 589; Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137. The fundamental nature of the excise tax imposed by the law is not
changed by the classification so as to make it a property

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

tax and subject to the rule of uniformity of taxation.
Stebbins v. Riley, supra.
Mr. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 1087-1, Chapter 64ff, of the Wisconsin Statutes 1919, provides-"A tax shall be and is hereby imposed upon any transfer of property, real, personal, or mixed . . . to any
person . . . within the State, in the following cases,
except as hereinafter provided:
"(1) When the transfer is by will or by the intestate
laws of this State from any person dying possessed of the
property while a resident of the State.
"(2) When a transfer is by will or intestate law, of
property within the State or within its jurisdiction and
the decedent was a nonresident of the State at the time
of his death.
"(3) When a transfer is of property made by a resident
or by a nonresident when such nonresident's property is
within this State, or within its jurisdiction, by deed,
grant, bargain, sale or gift, made in contemplation of the
death of the grantor, vendor or donor, or intended to take
effect in possession or enjoyment at or after such death.
Every transfer by deed, grant, bargain,sale or gift, made
within six years prior to the death of the grantor, vendor
or donor, of a material part of his estate, or in the nature
of a final disposition or distribution thereof, and without
an adequate valuable consideration, shall be construed
to have been made in contemplation of death within the
meaning of this section."
These provisions were taken from § 1, c. 44, Laws of
1903, except that the last sentence of subdiv. 3 (italicized) was added by c. 643, Laws of 1913.
Section 1087-2, c. 64ff, imposes taxes upon transfers
described by § 1087-1 varying from one to five per

SCHLESINGER v. WISCONSIN.
230

Opinion of the Court.

centum, according to relationship of the parties, when the
value is not above twenty-five thousand dollars. On
larger ones the rates are from two to five times higher,
with fifteen per centum as the maximum.
"Section 1087-5 [c. 64ff]. 1. All taxes imposed by this
act shall be due and payable at the time of the transfer,
except as hereinafter provided; and every such tax shall
be and remain a lien upon the property transferred until
paid, and the person to whom the property is transferred
and the administrators, executors, and trustees of every
estate so transferred shall be personally liable for such
tax until its payment."
Other provisions of c. 64ff provide for determination,
assessment and collection of the tax. In the Revised
Statutes of 1921 and 1925, c. 64ff became c. 72, and section numbers were changed-1087-1 became 72.01,
1087-2 became 72.02, 1087-5 became 72.05, etc.
In Estate of Ebeling (1919), 169 Wis. 432, the court
held: "Section 1087-1, Stats., as amended by c. 643,
Laws 1913, which provides that gifts of a material part
of a donor's estate, made within six years prior to his
death, shall be construed to have been made in contemplation of death so far as transfer taxes are concerned,
constitutes a legislative definition of what is a transfer
in contemplation of death, and not a mere rule of law
making the fact of such gifts prima facie evidence that
they were made in contemplation of death."
Estate of Stephenson, 171 Wis. 452, 459-A gift of
twenty-three thousand dollars constitutes a material part
of an estate valued at more than a million dollars; also,
gifts by decedents in contemplation of death must be
treated, for purposes of taxation, as part of their estates.
In re Uihlein's Will, 187 Wis. 101-"As stated in the.
Schlesinger case, the statute was enacted for the purpose
of enabling the taxing officials of the State to make an

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

efficient and practical administration of the inheritance
tax law. . . . It is settled in this State that the tax
attaches, not at thq date of the transfer of the gift, but at
the date of the death of the donor. . . . Under our
decisions the gifts that have been made within six years
of the donor's death, together with the amount of the
estate left by the donor at the time of his death, constitute his estate, and must be administered, so far as inheritance tax proceedings are concerned, as one estate.
The tax does not attach and become vested in the State
until the death of the donor. When the gift is made and
the donee receives it, there is no certainty that an inheritance tax will ever be levied upon the gift."
In the present cause the Milwaukee County Court
found that Schlesinger died testate January 3, 1921,
leaving a large estate; that within six years he had made
four separate gifts, aggregating more than five million
dollars, to his wife and three children; that none of these
was really made in view, Anticipation, expectation, ap
prehension or contemplation of death. And it held that
because made within six years before death these gifts
"are by the express terms of § 72.01 [formerly § 1087-1],
Clause (3), of the statutes subject to inheritance taxes,
although not in fact made in contemplation of death."
An appropriate order so adjudged. The executors and
children appealed; the Supreme Court affirmed the order
(184 Wis. 1); and thereupon they brought the matter
here.
Plaintiffs in error maintain that, as construed and applied below, -the quoted tax provisions deprive them of
property without due process of law, deny them the equal
protection of the laws, and conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The Supreme Court of the State said: "The tax in
question is not a property tax but a tax upon the right
to receive property from a decedent. It is an excise law."

SCHLESINGER v. WISCONSIN.
230

Opinion of the Court.

"Such [legislative] intent was to tax only gifts made in
contemplation of death. That is the only class created.
The legislature says that all gifts made within six years
of the donor's death shall be construed to be made in
contemplation of death," [which means] "that they shall
conclusively be held to. be gifts made in contemplation
of death and shall fall within the one taxable class of gifts
created by the legislature." "In our case the legislative
intent we think is clear that the specified gifts were to be
conclusively construed to be gifts in contemplation of
death." "We agree with the applicants that the classification made will not support a tax as one on gifts inter
vivos only. Under such taxation the classification is
wholly arbitrary and void. We perceive no more reason
why such gifts inter vivos should be taxed than gifts made
within six years of marriage or any other event. It is
because only one class of gifts closely connected with and
a part of the inheritance tax law is created that the law
becomes valid. Gifts made in contemplation of death
stand in a class by themselves, and as such they are made
a part of the inheritance tax law to the end that it may
be effectively administered. We adhere to the ruling in
the Ebeling case."
No question is made of the State's power to tax gifts
actually made in anticipation of death, as though the
property passed by will or descent; nor is there denial of
the power of the State to tax gifts inter vivos when not
arbitrarily exerted.
The challenged enactment plainly undertakes to raise a
conclusive presumption that all material gifts within six
years of death were made in anticipation of it and to lay
a graduated inheritance tax upon them without regard to
the actual intent. The presumption is declared to be conclusive and cannot be overcome by evidence. It is no
mere prima facie presumption of fact.
The court below declared that a tax on gifts inter vivos
only could not be so laid as to hit those made within six

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

years of the donor's death and exempt all others--this
would be "wholly arbitrary." We agree with this view
and axe of opinion that such a classification would be in
plain conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. The legislative action here challenged is no less arbitrary. Gifts
inter vi ;o.q witbin six years of death, but in fact made
without contemplation thereof, are first conclusively presumed to have been so made without regard to actualities,
while like gifts at other times are not thus treated. There
is no adequate basis for this distinction. Secondly, they
are subjected to graduated taxes which could not properly
be laid on all gifts or, indeed, upon any gift without testamentary character.
The presumption and consequent taxation are defended
upon the theory that, exercising judgment and discretion,
the legislature found them necessary in order to prevent
evasion of inheritance taxes. That is to say, "A" may be
required to submit to an exactment forbidden by the
Constitution if this seems necessary in order to enable
the State readily to collect lawful charges against "B."
Rights guaranteed by the federal Constitution are not to
be so lightly treated; they are superior to this supposed
necessity. The State is forbidden to deny due process of
law or the equal protection of the laws for any purpose
whatsoever.
No new doctrine was announced in Stebbins v. Riley,
268 U. S. 137, cited by defendant in error. A classification for purposes of taxation must rest on some reasonable
distinction. A forbidden tax cannot be enforced in order
to facilitate the collection of one properly laid. Mobile,
etc., R. R. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 43, discusses the
doctrine of presumption.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
rhe cause will be remanded for further proceedings not
Revered
inconsistent with this opinion.
Mit. JUSTICE SANFORD concurs in the result.

SCHLESINGER v. WISCONSIN.
230
Mr.

HOLMES, BRANDEIS, and STONE, JJ., dissenting.
JUSTICE HOLMES,

dissenting.

If the Fourteenth Amendment were now before us for
the first time I should think that it ought to be construed
more narrowly than it has been construed in the past.
But even now it seems to me not too late to urge that in
dealing with state legislation upon matters of substantive
law we should avoid with great caution attempts to substitute our judgment for that of the body whose business
it is in the first place, with regard to questions of domestic
policy that fairly are open to debate.
The present seems to me one of those questions. I
leave aside the brbader issues that might be considered
and take the statute as it is written, putting the tax on
the ground of an absolute presumption that gifts of a
material part of the donor's estate made within six years
of his death were made in contemplation of death. If the
time were six months instead of six years I hardly think
that the power of the State to pass the law would be denied, as the difficulty of proof would warrant making the
presumption absolute; and while I should not dream of
asking where the line can be drawn, since the great body
of the law consists in drawing such lines, yet when you
realize that you are dealing with a matter of degree you
must realize that reasonable men may differ widely as to
the place where the line should fall. I think that our discussion should end if we admit, what I certainly believe,
that reasonable men might regard six years as not too remote. Of course many gifts will be hit by the tax that
were made with no contemplation of death. But the law
allows a penumbra to be embraced that goes beyond the
outline of its object in order that the object may be secured. A typical instance is the prohibition of the sale of
unintoxicating malt liquors in order to make effectivea
prohibition of the sale of beer. The power "is not to be
denied simply because some innocent articles or transac1oo569°-26--16

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
HOLMES, BRANDEIS,

and

STONE,

JJ., dissenting. 270 U. S.

tions may be found within the proscribed class." Purity
Extract & Tonic Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201, 204.
Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264,283. In such cases
(and they are familiar) the Fourteenth Amendment is invoked in vain. Later cases following the principle of
Purity Extract & Tonic Co. v. Lynch are Hebe Co. v.
Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303; Pierce Oil Co. v. Hope, 248
U. S. 498, 500. See further Capital City Dairy Co. v.
Ohio, 183 U. S.238, 246.
I am not prepared to say that the legislature of Wisconsin, which is better able to judge than I am, might not
believe, as the Supreme Court of the State confidently
affirms, that by far the larger proportion of the gifts coming under the statute actually were made in contemplation of death. I am not prepared to say that if the legislature held that belief, it might not extend the tax to
gifts made within six years of death in order to make sure
that its policy of taxation should not be escaped. I think
that with the States as with Congress when the means
are not prohibited and are calculated to effect the object
we ought not to inquire into the degree of the necessity
for resorting to them. James Everard's Breweries v. Day,
265 U. S.545, 559.
It may. be worth noticing that the gifts of millions
taxed in this case were made from about four years before
the death to a little over one, year. The statute is not
called upon in its full force in order to justify this tax. If
I thought it necessary I should ask myself whether it
should not be construed as intending to get as near to six
years as it constitutionally could, and whether it would
be bad for a year and a month.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

in this opinion.

and MR. JUSTICE STONE ooncur

