OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

may be based on the view that the corporation has been
domesticated in North Carolina. So far as the statutes
of the State show, it has been authorized to do and does
business in the Stat6 and owns property therein and pays
a fee for the permission to do so. It has not been re-incorporated in the State. It is still a foreign corporation
and the rights of its stockholders are to be determined
accordingly.
We conclude that the statute of North Carolina, above
set out, in so far as it attempts to subject the shares of
*stock in the New Jersey corporation, held by a resident
of Rhode Island, to a transfer tax, deprives the executor
of Briggs of his property without due process of law and
is invalid.
Judgment reversed.
INDEPENDENT WIRELESS TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 87.

Petition for rehearing; denied March 1, 1926.

This Court will not examine a point raised for the first time in a
petition for rehearing, after failure to raise it in the petition for
certiorari, briefs, or argument of counsel.

ON PETITION to rehear, after the decision reported in
269 U. S. 459.
Mr. William H. Davis, for petitioner.
Mr. John TV. Davis, with whom Mr. James J. Cosgrove
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a petition for rehearing of a case in which the
opinion was handed down January 11th last. The case

IND. WIRELESS CO. v. RADIO CORP.
84

Opinion of the Court.

was a bill in equity in the District Court for the Southern
District of New York, filed by the Radio Corporation to
enjoin the Independent Wireless Company from infringing
the rights of the Radio Company, which were averred in
its bill to be those of an exclusive sub-licensee of the
patentee, the De Forest Radio Telegraph & Telephone
Company, in respect of the use of certain radio apparatus
for commercial communication between ships and shore
for pay. The Radio Company made the De Forest Company co-complainant in the bill, reciting that it had asked
the De Forest Company to become a co-complainant, and
that it had refused, that the De Forest Company was a
resident of Delaware, was beyond the jurisdiction of the
District Court for the Southern District of New York, and
could not be served with process, and that under such
circumstances it had the right to use the name of the De
Forest Company as co-complainant without its consent.
A motion to dismiss the bill was granted by the District
Court for lack of the presence of the patentee as a party,
and an appeal was taken from the decree of dismissal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals. The latter court reversed
the decree of dismissal and remanded the case for further
proceedings. Thereupon an application was made to this
Court for certiorari, and the certiorari was issued. In the
opinion already rendered, January 11th last, this Court
held that the Radio Corporation properly made the De
Forest Company a co-complainant with it in the bill without its consent, and therefore that the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals in reversing the decree of the
District Court dismissing the bill was right. The petition for rehearing on behalf of the Independent Wireless
Company now filed, raises the question whether the Radio
Corporation is an exclusive sub-licensee of the patentee,
the De Forest Company, under the contracts, from which
the Radio Company derives its rights, and which are
exhibits to the bill. It is the first time that this question
has been made in this Court. The bill which was dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

missed makes the specific averment that the Radio Corporation did have the rights of an exclusive licensee.
Both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals
found from the contracts as exhibited that the Radio
Company had the exclusive rights as sub-licensee which
it claimed. The briefs for the Independent Wireless Company did not raise any question on this point in this Court,
nor was it mentioned in that Company's petition for certiorari. Its whole argument therein was devoted to the
issue whether, assuming that the Radio Company was an
exclusive licensee, it could make the patentee company, the
De Forest Company, a co-complainant. As the District
Judge remarked in his opinion, the contracts out of which
the Radio Company's alleged exclusive license arises are
complicated, and this Court, in view of the decision of
both the lower courts, holding such exclusive rights in the
Radio Company as a licensee to exist, decided the case on
the basis of those rights. In view of the course of the
Independent Wireless Company in not making this point
in its petition for certiorari, briefs or argument, we do
not purpose to examine this question now raised for the
first time. Our writ of certiorari was granted solely because of the importance of the question of patent practice
decided in our opinion already announced. However, as
the case must now be remanded to the District Court for
further proceedings, we have no wish by action of ours
to preclude the defendant below from making the point
unless it is prevented by his course in the courts below.
We therefore direct the mandate to include a provision
that the further proceedings to be taken shall be without
prejudice, by reason of anything in the opinion or decree
of this Court, to the right of the Independent Wireless
Company to raise the issue, by answer or otherwise,
whether the Radio Corporation has the rights as an exclusive sub-licensee, which it avers in its bill. With this
reservation, the petition for rehearing is denied.
Petition denied.

