550

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

and stone entry of the land after the survey. This Court,
after carefully pointing out that the homestead claim was
lawfully initiated, held that the land was excepted from
the right of selection and therefore that the selection was
of no avail. Most of the discussion in the opinion was to
no purpose if, as is contenled here, it was immaterial
whether the homestead claim was initiated in substantial
conformity to the homestead requirements.
A selection of unsurveyed land under the same Act was
involved in Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Hower, 236 U. S.
702, and was sustained against an asserted prior homestead claim on the ground that, while the claimant had
put a small barn on the tract and had cut a trail across
it prior to the selection, he had never resided thereon or
shown any purpose to do so, but had been maintaining
a home on other land not even contiguous to it.
The Donohue Case and the Hower Case taken together
illustrate the principle of prior cases and show how it
should be applied here.
Decree reversed.

PEOPLES NATURAL GAS COMPANY v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION OF PENNSYLVANIA
ET AL.

THE SAME v. THE SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 70, 71.

Argued October 21, 22, 1925.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. The transportation of gas in a pipe line from one State to another
and its prompt delivery to purchasers at local destinations, is
interstate commerce. P. 554.
2. The passing of custody and title at the state boundary without
arresting the movement to the destinations intended are minor
details which do not affect the essential nature of the business. Id.

PEOPLES GAS CO. v. PUB. SER. COMM. 551
550

Opinion of the Court.

3. Where local gas, destined for local consumption, is added to a pipe
line carrying gas from another State, after it has crossed the state
line, the gas to the extent so added is in intrastate commerce and
subject to local regulation. P. 554.
279 Pa. 252, affirmed.
ERROR to two judgments of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania sustaining an order of the Publio Service
Commission requiring the Gas Company, to furnish gas
to another company for sale to consumers in a city. See
also s. c. 79 Pa. Super. Ct. 560.

Mr. George B. Gordon, with whom Messrs. William W.
Smith, Arthur E. Young, Allen T. -C. Gordon, and S. G.
Nolin were on .the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Frank M. Hunter for defendant in error Public
Service Commission of Pennsylvania.
Mr. J. E. B. Cunningham, with whom Messrs. Tillman
K. Saylor and Spencer G. Nauman were on the brief, for
-defendant in error Joseph Cauffield.
Messrs. David I. McCahill and Edward 0. Tabor were
on the brief, for defendant in error Johnstown Fuel Supply Company.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These two cases are practically but one. The matter
in controversy is the constitutional validity of an order
of the Public Service Commission of Pennsylvania requiring the Peoples Natural Gas Company to continue its
prior practice of supplying natural gas to another company at Johnstown for sale to consumers in that city. On
successive appeals to the Superior Court and the Supreme
Court of the State the Peoples Company challenged the
order as directly regulating and burdening interstate com- '
merce and depriving the company of property without

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

due process of law in violation of constitutional restraints
on state action; but both contentions were overruled and
the order was sustained. 79 Pa. Superior Ct. 560; 279
Pa. 252. On these writs of error the company relies only
on the contention that the order is a forbidden interference with interstate commerce.
The Peoples Company is a public service corporation
created under the laws of Pennsylvania and engaged in
producing, purchasing, transporting by pipe line, and
selling natural gas. It purchases about two-thirds of the
gas which it transports and sells from a producing company in West Virginia having pipe lines leading from
wells in that State to the boundary between the two
States; and it produces the other one-third from its own
wells in the southwestern counties of Pennsylvania. It
has a system of pipe lines in Pennsylvania which is connected at the state boundary with the lines of the West
Virginia company and leads thence to Pittsburgh, Johnstown and other Pennsylvania cities and boroughs where
it sells the gas. The gas coming from West Virginia is
transported, through the pipe lines as connected at the
state boundary, in a continuous stream from the places
of production in one State to those of consumption in
the other. At the state boundary that gas passes through
a registering meter and that point is treated as the place
of delivery to the Peoples Company; but the transportation is not interrupted there. The gas from the company's
wells in Pennsylvania is fed into the moving stream at
different points after it crosses the state boundary. The
movement of the stream towards the points of destination
is accel.erated by means of pumps in Penrisylvania-:one
near the state line and one remote from it.
The Peoples Company sells directly to consumers at
the several places of consumption, other than Johnstown,
and there it sells to an independent company, having a
local franchise and distributing plant, which sells to con-

PEOPLES GAS CO. v. PUB. SER. COMM. 553
550

Opinion of the Court.

sumers.' For upwards of ten years the gas sold to that
company was supplied under a contract, but when the
order in question was made the Peoples Company had
exercised a reserved privilege of terminating the contract; and the Commission in making the order proceeded on the theory that the Peoples Company is a
public service corporation and may be required, irrespective of the terms of the contract, to continue supplying
gas to the local company and thus to continue its indirect
service to Johnstown consumers. The order does not fix
the rate for this service, but contemplates that it shall
be fixed primarily by a schedule to be filed by the Peoples
Company and shall be subject to supervision by the Commission as respects its reasonableness.
In the state courts the cases had many features which
are immaterial here and need not be noticed.
The Supreme Court of the State in overruling the contention that the order is a forbidden interference with
interstate commerce put its decision on two grounds:
first, that no interstate commerce is involved, and, secondly, that if such commerce is involved the order is not
a forbidden interference but an admissible exertion of
power which exists in the State in 'the absence of regulation by Congress under its paramount power. The
frst ground of decision was based on two conclusions:
one that, as the West Virginia gas is delivered at the state
boundary and the title passes there, interstate commerce
therein ends at that boundary and the further transportation and sale in Pennsylvania are in intrastate commerce;
and the other that the gas produced in Pennsylvania and
there fed into the pipe lines is more than sufficient to enable the company to comply with the order, and that
when the order is construed in the light of this situation
it does not require that any West Virginia gag be .used
in complying with it. Both conclusions are earnestly
challenged by the Peoples Company-the former as de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

parting from the decisions of this Court respecting the
nature of transactions in natural gas transported from
one State to another, and the other as without an adequate basis in the evidence and treating the Pennsylvania
gas, after it is unavoidably commingled with that from
West Virginia, as being separable and having a distinct
status.
As respects the West Virginia. gas we are of opinion,
in view of its continuous transportatiorn from the places of
production in one State to those of consumption in the
other and its prompt delivery to purchasers when it
reaches the intended destinations, that it must be held
to be in interstate commerce throughout these transactions. Prior decisions leave no room for discussion on
this point and show that the passing of custody and title
at the state boundary without arresting the movement to
the destinations intended are minor details which do not
affect the essential nature of the business. Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 112-113;,
Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236,
245; PennsylvaniaGas Co. v. Public Service Commission,
252 U. S. 23, 28; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 257
U. S. 277, 280-281; Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262
U. S. 553; Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291,
309; Missouri v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298;
Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S.
101; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; Shafer v.
Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189.
As respects the Pennsylvania gas we think it must be
held to be in intrastate commerce only. Feeding it into
the same pipe lines with the West Virginia gas works
no change in this regard. Of course after the commingling the two are undistinguishable. But the proportions
of both in the mixture are known and that of either
readily may be withdrawn without affecting the transportation or sale of the rest. So for all practical pur-

CHILDERS v. BEAVER.
550

Syllabus.

poses the two are separable, and neither affects the character of the business as to the other. Eureka Pipe Line
Ca. v. Hallanan, 257 U. S. 265; United Fuel Gas Co. v.
Hallanan, 257 U. S. 277, 281. And see Hallanan v.
Eureka Pipe Line Co., 261 U. S. 393; Hallananv. United
Fuel Gas Co., 261 U. S. 398. The Supreme Court of the
State has found that more than enough Pennsylvania
gas goes into the mixture to meet the xequirements of the
order, and on this basis has construed the order as leaving
the company free to deal in usual course with so much
of the mixture as represents the gas from West Virginia.
We think the finding has ample support in the evidence,
and we accept of course that court's construction of the
order. In these circumstances the conclusion is unavoidable, we think, that the order does not interfere with or
affect the interstate commerce in which the company is
engaged.
Whether the order, if it did apply to gas in such commerce, could be -sustained becomes immaterial in view
of the conclusion just stated, and therefore need not be

considered.
Judgments affirmed.

CHILDERS, STATE AUDITOR, v. BEAVER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 202.

Argued March 9, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. Transfer by descent from one tribal Indian to another of land
allotted and patented by the United States to the ancestor with
a prohibition against alienation, is not taxable by the State
where the land lies, during the restriction on the title. P. 558.
2. Inheritande in such cases is under the acts of Congress, by which
heirs are determined by the Secrefary of the Interior, the State
law being adopted as the expression of the will of Congress. P. 559.
300 Fed. 113, affirmed.

