OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
270 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

seriously the enforcement of federal laws, it will be for
Congress in its discretion to amend ยง 33 so that the words
"on account of " shall be enlarged to mean that any
prosecution of a federal officer for any state offense which
can be shown by evidence to have had its motive in a
wish to hinder him in the enforcement of federal law,
may be removed for trial to the proper federal court.
We are not now considering or intimating whether such
an enlargement would be valid; but what we wish to be
understood as deciding is that the present language of
ยง 33 can not be broadened by fair construction to give it
such a meaning. These were not prosecutions, therefore,
commenced on account of acts done by these defendants
solely in pursuance of their federal authority. With the
statute as it is, they can not have the protection of a
trial in the federal court, however natural their denials
under oath of inculpating circumstances. As the indictment in this case was not removable under ยง 33, the mandamus to the Judge of tle District Court to remand it to
the Circuit Court for Harford County, Maryland, must
.be made absolute. The writ need not issue, however, as
Judge Soper's return indicates that he will act upon an
expression of our views.

MARYLAND v. SOPER, JUDGE.

(No. 3)

PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS

No. 25, Original.

Argued December 7, 1925.-Decided February 1,
1926.

Decided upon the authority of Maryland v. Soper (No. 2), ante,
p. 36.

Messrs. Thos. H. Robinson, Attorney General of Maryland, and Herbert Levy, Assistant Attorney General of
Maryland, for petitioner.

.COLE v. NORBORNE DRAINAGE DIST.

45

Syllabus.

44

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE 'TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This ease is quite like that in No. 24, Original, just decided. It differs, in that here the indictment which was
removed from the Circuit Court of -arford County,
Maryland, to the District Court of the United States for
Maryland was an indictment against E. Franklin Ely for
perjury, in the inquiry made by the coroner into the circumstances of the death of Wenger, it being charged that
when it was material whether he had seen Lawrence
Wenger at the time he (Ely), as a government officer, lay
concealed and hidden and watched the bringing of the
still, he falsely stated he had not seen Wenger. In all
other respects the proceedings were quite like those in
the case just decided, and on the principles laid down in
that case we must hold that there was no ground for removing the prosecution of Ely for perjury, and that the
mandamus to require the remanding of the removal
should be made absolute.
CHARLES D. COLE, MARY COLE, HERMAN NOELKER ET -AL. v. NORBORNE LAND DRAINAGE
DISTRICT OF CARROLL COUNTY, MISSOURI,

H. H. FRANKLIN, L. WILLIAMS

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 152.

Argued January 20, 1926.-Decided February 1, 1926.

A state law (Ls. Mo. 1913) providing that establishment of a drainage district, with consequent liability for assessments, shall depend
on the vote of the owners of the majority of the acreage included,

