RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
65

69

Syllabus.

sued on, but that the authority was vested in Colonel
Kimball, and that until Colonel Kimball signed the con-

tract, it did not bind the Government. All the statements
of the petition united together are no more than to say
that the company relied on the promise of Major Ross
that Colonel Kimball would confirm the contract which
Ross proposed to make and said that he had authority
subject to Kimball's confirmation to make. But Kimball
never confirmed it.
Nor is there any implied contract binding upon the
Government. The Oil Company was dealing with its own
property in moving it from Carteret to Baltimore, and
when the tanks were removed to Baltimore, they still
belonged to the company for use by it not only in storing
oil for the Government but for anyone else. There
was no enrichment of the Government to its knowledge,
no benefit in the form of property given to it or of service
rendered to it from which the contract by it to pay could
be implied. The Court of Claims was right in sustaining
the demurrer, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

RHODE ISLAND HOSPITAL TRUST COMPANY,
EXECUTOR OF GEORGE BRIGGS, DECEASED, v.
RUFUS A. DOUGHTON, COMMISSIONER OF
REVENUE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 106.

Argued January 11, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Under the principle that the subject to be taxed must be within
the jurisdiction of the State, applicable to a transfer tax as well
as to a property tax, a State may not tax the devolution of property from a non-resident to a non-resident, unless it has jurisdiction of the property. P. 80.
2. Inasmuch as the property of a corporation is not owned by the
shareholder, presence of such property in. a State does not give
that State jurisdiction over his shares for tax purposes. P. 81.

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error

270 U. S.

3. A North Carolina law purporting to tax the inheritance of shares
owned by a non-resident in any corporation of another State having
fifty per cent. or more of its property in North Carolina, the
assessment of the shares as compared to their full value being in
the same ratio as the value of the corporate property in the
State to all the corporate propcrty,-held void as applied to
shares owned by a resident and citizen of Rhode Island, and
passing to his executor there, in a New Jersey corporation,
where two-thirds in value of the corporation's property was
located in North Carolina, but where the corporation was not
"domesticated " by reincorporation in North Carolina, and where
thee was nothing in the statutory conditions on which it began
and continued business there suggesting that the shareholders
thereby subjected their stock to the taxing jurisdiction of that
State. P. 80.
187 N. C. 263, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina sustaining a tax on the inheritance of shares of
stock.
Mr. John M. Robinson, with whom Messrs. William R.
Tillinghast,James C. Collins and Colin MacR. Makepeace
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
The distinction between the ownership of the shares
of a corporation and ownership of its property is fundamental, and has heretofore been fully recognized by the
law of North Carolina. Pullen v. Corpotration Commission, 152 N. C. 553. See 38 Harv. L. Rev. 813. The decision in the present case seems to stand alone. Tyler v.
Dane County, 289 Fed. 843; State v. Dunlap, 28 Idaho
784; People v. Dennett, 276 Ill. 43; Welch v. Burrell, 223
Mass. 87; State v. Walker, 70 Mont. 484; In re McMullen's Estate, 192 N. Y. S. 49; Shephard v. State, 184 Wis.
88. See Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189; Hawley v.
Maldin, 232 U. S. 1.
We submit that the stock in question could not, in any
sense, be properly regarded as property in North Carolina.
The owner was not a resident. The corporation was ,
New Jersey one. The certificates themselves were physi-

RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
69

71

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cally out of the State. Any transfer of the certificates
must have been effected out of the State. There is no
contention, we assume, that the State could have exercised any control over the transfer of the stock from one
owner to the other. Nor have we heard it contended that
the stock, prior to the decedent's death, was subject to an
ad valorem tax in North Carolina. In other words, that
State had no jurisdiction over the property itself or the
transition thereof. Even if North Carolina, thrdugh its
legislature and courts, could thus sweep aside the corporate entity in dealing with the relationship of stockholders
to the property of a domestic corporation, it could not do
so when dealing with the relationship of stockholders in
a foreign corporation.
The tobacco company is a corporation of New Jersey.
Hence the relation of the stockholders to the corporate
property is determined by the law of that State and can
not be changed by the State of North Carolina. Supreme
Council v. Green, 237 U. S. 531; Canada, etc. R. R. v.
Gebhard, 109 U. S. 529. In the absence of evidence to
the contrary, it is presumed that the relation of a stockholder to the corporate property is fixed by the State of
New Jersey in accordance with the rules of the common
law, unaffected by statute. Miller v. Railroad, 154 N. C.
441; Roberts v. Pratt, 152 N. C. 731.
From the admitted facts it is seen that the taxing State
had no jurisdiction over the owner, or the property, or
the transfer of the property. Frick v. Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473. It is elementary that the
power of a State to tax is limited to persons, property
and business within its domain. State Tax on ForeignHeld Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517;
Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 192; Bristol v. Wash..
ington County, 177 U. S. 133; Tyler v. Dane County, 289
Fed. 843; Shepard v. State, 184 Wis. 88; Welch v. Burrell,
223 Mass. 87.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

270 U. S.

The fact that the tobacco company complied with the
state statutes in order to do business therein conferred no
authority on the State to impose the tax in question. Section 1181 of the Consolidated Statutes so complied with,
contains no provision to the effect that a corporation,
upon complying with its requirements, becomes, in any
respect, a North Carolina corporation. On the contrary
the section expressly provides that a corporation which
has complied with its provisions may thereafter "withdraw" from the State in a prescribed manner. Formerly
there were two sorts of statutes in the case of admission
of foreign corporations to do business in a State-one
making it a domestic corporation, and the other merely
giving the foreign corporation, as such, permission to do
business in the State. Chapter 62 of the Public Laws of
the North Carolina Assembly of 1899 was an example
of the first kind of statute mentioned. This statute was
considered in the case of Southern Railway Co. v. Allison,
190 U. S. 326, wherein it was decided that a foreign cor-

poration, which had complied with the statute, did not
thereby lose its right to remove to the federal court an
action brought against it by a resident of North Carolina.
In Pennsylvania'RailroadCo. v. Railroad, 118 U. S. 290,
the Court said: "It does not seem to admit of question
that a corporation of one State, owning property and
doing business in another State by permission of the latter, does not thereby become a citizen of this State also."
It will be noted that the North Carolina statute (C. S.
1181) does not purport to deal with the stockholders or
their liabilities, nor to change the common law relation
of a stockholder to the corporate property. Its provisions
operate directly upon the corporation itsolf, without attempting to reach beyond it. It is true that a State may
impose valid conditions upon a foreign corporation seeking
to enter its borders to transact business. But we submit
that, even if it attempted to do so, it could not impose the

RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
69

73

Argument for Defendant in Error.

condition that stock in such corporation, held outside the
State by a non-resident, should be subject to its inheritance tax. Shephard v. State, 184 Wis. 88; Tyler v. Dane
County, 249 Fed. 843.
It is true that, in exceptional cases, the court will
disregard the corporate entity. This, however, is resorted
to in order to prevent injustice or to circumvent manifest
fraud. But our research has failed to disclose a single
case wherein the corporate entity has been disregarded in
order to support a tax for which the corporation admittedly is not liable. If a State may utterly disregard the
entity of a foreign corporation, owning property within
its borders, solely for the purpose of collecting taxes out
of non-resident stockholders of the corporation, it may
disregard that entity for any and all purposes. The fact
that North Carolina has the power to punish the tobacco
company for transferring the stock before payment of the
tax, by taking property of the company located in the
State, does not confer jurisdiction. The vital fact in the
case is that Briggs owned no property there.
The economic policy pursued by North Carolina cannot
deprive the plaintiff in error of its federal rights. Neither
Briggs nor the plaintiff ever took any benefit under the
North Carolina way of levying ad valorem taxes. In Person v. Watts, 184 N. C. 499, no rights under the federal
Constitution were involved.
Mr. Dennis G. Brummitt, Attorney General of North
Carolina, with whom Mr. Frank Nash, Assistant Attorney
General of North Carolina, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
An inheritance tax is in no sense a tax upon property
but is a levy upon the exercise of a state-granted privilege
to dispose of property at one's death or to receive such
property by reason of the death of the former holder.
The authority to tax this privilege is not restricted by

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

270 U. S.

the Fourteenth Amendment unless the statute plainly
offends against due process or equal protection. Orr v.
Gilman, 183 U. S. 278; Billings v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 97;
Campbell v. California,200 U. S. 87.
The idea of a corporation as a legal entity apart from
its members is a mere fiction of law. When this fiction
is urged to an extent not within its reason and purpose
it should be disregarded and the corporation considered
as an aggregation of persons both in equity and law.
Baltimore & P. R. Co. v. Fifth Baptist Church, 108 U.
S. 317; United States v. Trinidad Coal & C. Co., 137 U.
S. 160. See also Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; J. J. McCaskill Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 504. Linn Timber
Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 574; Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 332; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106.
The legislature has authority to modify or abolish fictions, though they may have been judicially created,
The State of North Carolina adopted this rule years ago
and has adhered to it consistently since in raising revenue by the taxing of corporations and their shareholderb.
The act of 1919 but extended this salutary principle to
inheritance taxes. [Citing numerous statutes.]
See
Railroad Co. v. Commissioners, 87 N. C. 414; Worth v.
Railroad, 89 N. C. 301; Railroad Co. v. Commissioners,
91 N. C. 454; Person v. Watts, 184 N. C. 499; Person v.
Doughton, 186 N. C. 723.
The Act does not offend against the Fourteenth Amendment, as the shares of stock held by the decedent in another State are not themselves property, but only evidence of decedent's ownership of an interest in property
actually located in North Carolina, the statute being
careful to fit the taxable value of the transfer of such
shares to the proportion of the property owned and operated by the corporation in the State. While title to cor-

RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. 'DOUGHTON.
69

75

Argument for Defendant in Error.

porate property is in the corporation, the substantial
beneficial ownership is, in equity at least, in the stockholders. Gadsden First Nat. Bank v. Winchester, 119
Ala. 168; Swift v. Smith, 65 Md. 428; Bundy v. Ophir Iron
Co., 38 Oh. St. 30; United States v. Wolters, 46 Fed. 509;
Warren v. Davenport Fire Ins. Co., 31 Iowa 464;. State v.
Brinkhop, 238 Mo. 298; Seaman v. Enterprise F. & M.
Ins. Co., 21 Fed. 778; Aetna Fire Ins. Co. v. Kennedy,
161 Ala. 600; Riggs v. Commercial Mut. Ins. Co., 125
N. Y. 7. Many of the cases in this Court which recognize
a distinct property in the shareholder in his shares of
stock, do so in determining the constitutionality of a
statute, which was enacted in recognition of this principle. Hawley v. Malden, 232 U1. S. 1; Blackstone v.
Miller, 188 U. S. 189; Wheeler v. Sohmer, 233 U. S. 434.
See Tappan v. Merchants National Bank, 19 Wall. 490;
Farringtonv. Tenn., 95 U. S. 679; Corry v. Baltimore, 196
U. S. 466; Rogers v. Hennipen County, 240 U. S. 184;
Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 598, dissenting
opinion. I Morawetz on Corporations, 2d Ed. §§ 227,
232; 3 Cook on Corporations, 8th Ed. §§ 663, 664.
o The State has constitutional authority to disregard this
fiction, particularly when this is done with no ulterior
purpose but with the intent to conform its inheritance
tax laws to its consistent policy of disregarding the fiction in all of its revenue acts in relation to the taxation
of the property of corporations and of their shareholders.
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189. See Adams Express
Co. v. Ohio State Auditor, 166 U. S. 185; New Orleans v.
Stemple, 175 U. S. 309. There is nothing in the recent
case of Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, which conflicts with this view.
The State has constitutional authority to levy an inheritance tax upon the transfer of only that part of the
stock which is represented by the value of the property
located in the State. This is fair and just, because the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

270 U. S.

tobacco company is conducting its very profitable business
under the fostering care of the laws of North Carolina and
practically all the profits that accrued to the decedent
from his ownership of the shares accrued in North Carolina. See Young v. South Tredegar Iron Co., 85 Tenn.
189; In re Bronson's Estate, 150 N. Y. 44; In re Culver's
Estate, 145 Iowa 1; Parks Cramer Co. v. Southern Express
Co., 185 N. C. 428. If this position is not sound, then
it is easy to conceive a corporation incorporated in another State and doing business in this State with all of
its property in the State, whose shares of stock would not
be subject to the inheritance tax.
As this is in reality taxation of the transfer of an interest in property located in the State, the General Assembly
may impose the obligation to pay such tax upon the custodian of the property within the State. Much more may
it, then, impose this liability upon the tobacco company
in the present case if it should transfer the stock upon
its books without the waiver of the Commissioner of Revenue required to give 'such transfer validity. Kirkland
v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 498; Bristol v. Washington Co.,
166 U. S. 141; Carstairsv. Cochran, 193 U. S. 10; Travisv. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., 252 U. S. 60.
Plaintiff in error relies upon certain cases falling into
two classes: (a) Those where the court, in interpreting a
general statute not specifically imposing a tax, holds that
the tax cannot be assessed under the general words of the
act because the property in the share of stock is distinct
from the property of the corporation, and the share being
located without the taxing State, it has no authority to
impose the tax. People v. Bennett, 276 Ill. 43; People v.
Blair, 276 Ill. 623; State v. Dunlop, 28 Idaho 784; Welch
v. Burrell, State Treas., 223 Mass. 87; In re Harkness Estate, 83 Okla. 107; (b) Those which hold an act somewhat similar to the North Carolina act attacked herein,
unconstitutional. Tyler v. Dane County, 289 Fed. 843;

RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
69

77

Opinion of the Court.

Shepard v. The State, 184 Wis. 88. Both of the two
decisions last cited were founded upon the fundamental
difference in Wisconsin between the capital of a corporation and its capital stock. State ex rel. Trust Co. v.
Walker, 70 Mont. 484, also distinguished.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of North
Carolina in a consolidation of two causes, the first being
an appeal to a Superior Court of the State by the plaintiff
in error, the Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, executor of George Briggs, from an inheritance tax assessment on the decedent's estate made by the Commissioner
of Revenue of North Carolina, and the second being an
action at law by the executor to recover the taxes paid by
it on the assessment under protest. The Superior Court
held that the inheritance taxes imposed by the Commissioner of Revenue of the State were lawful and that the
executor was not entitled to recover them back as illegally
collected. The Supreme Court of North Carolina affirmed
this judgment. 187 N. C. 263.
The assignment of error of the executor is based on the
invalidity under the Fourteenth Amendment of that part
of the Revenue Act of 1919 of North Carolina, Public
Laws, c. 90, § 6 and sub § 7, which provides:
"SEc. 6. From and after the passage of this act all real

and personal property of whatever kind and nature which
shall pass by will or by the intestate laws of this State
from any person who may die seized or possessed of the
same while a resident of this State, whether the person
or persons dying seized thereof be domiciled within or out
of the State (or if the decedent was not a resident of this
State at the time of his death, such property or any part
thereof within this State,) or any interest therein or income therefrom which shall be transferred by deed, grant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

sale or gift, made in contemplation of the death of the
grantor, bargainor, donor or assignor, or intended to take
effect in possession or enjoyment after such death, to any
person or persons or to bodies corporate or politic, in trust
or otherwise, or by reason whereof any person or body
corporate or politic shall become beneficially entitled in
possession or expectancy to any property or the income
thereof, shall be and hereby is made subject to a tax for
the benefit of the State ...
"Seventh. The words 'such property or any part
thereof or interest therein within this State' shall include
in its meaning bonds and shares of stock in any incorporated company, incorporated in any other State or country, when such incorporated company is the owner of
property in this State, and if 50 per cent or more of its
property is located in this State, and when bonds or shares
of stock in any such company not incorporated in this
State, and owning property in this State, are transferred
by inheritance, the valuation upon which the tax shall be.
computed shall be the proportion of the total value of
such bonds or shares which the property owned by such
company in this State bears to the total property owned
by such company, and the exemptions allowed shall be
the proportion of exemption allowed by this act, as related
to the total value of the property of the decedent."
The seventh sub-section further provides:
"Any. incorporated ccmpany not incorporated in this
State and owning property in this State, which shall transfer on its books the bonds or shares of stock of any decedent holder of shares of stock in such company exceeding
in par value $500, before the inheritance tax, if any, has
been paid, shall become liable for the payment of the said
tax, and any property held by such company in this State
shall be subject to execution to satisfy the same. A
receipt or waiver signed by the State Tax Commissioner
of North Carolina shall be full protection for any such
company in the transfer of any such stocks or bonds."

RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
69

79

Opinion of the Court.

George Briggs was a resident of the State of Rhode
Island, and domiciled therein at the time of his death.
He never resided in North Carolina. He died testate
October 29, 1919, leaving a large estate. The plaintiff,
Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, was appointed
executor of Briggs' will, and qualified as such before the
municipal court of the city of Providence, Rhode Island.
Among other personal property passing to the executor
under the will were shares of stock in the R. J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company which with declared dividends unpaid
were valued at $115,634.50. The R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company, hereinafter for brevity called the Tobacco Company, is a corporation created under the laws of the State
of New Jersey. Section 1181 of the Consolidated Statutes
of North Carolina provides that every foreign corporation,
before being permitted to do business in North Carolina,
shall file in the office of the Secretary of State a copy of
its charter, a statement of the amount of its capital stock,
the amount actually issued, the principal office in North
Carolina, the name of the agent in charge of the office, the
character of the business which it transacts, and the names
and post office addresses of its officers and directors. It is
required to pay, for the use of the State, twenty cents for
every one thousand dollars of its authorized capital stock,
but in no case less than $25, nor more than $250. It may
withdraw from the State upon paying a fee of five dollars,
and filing in the office of the Secretary of State a statement
of its wish to do so. In August, 1906, the Tobacco Company filed its application under the statute and complied
with the requirements, and a certificate granting authority
to it to do business in the State was issued. Two-thirds
in value of its entire property is in North Carolina. Since
1906, it has regularly paid the license and franchise tax
required, and is still doing business in the State.
Briggs' certificates of stock in the Tobacco Company,
passing under his will to his executor, were, none of them,

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

in the State of North Carolina at the time of his death,
and never had been while they were owned by him. The
Commissioner of Revenue of the State assessed an inheritance tax upon $77,089.67, (66% per cent. of the total
value of Briggs' stock), amounting to $2,658.85. The
plaintiff as executor applied to the office of the company
in New Jersey to have this stock transferred to it as executor, in compliance with the will of Briggs. The company refused to do so, on the ground that under the law
of North Carolina, already set forth, it would by such
transfer before the executor paid the transfer tax subject
itself to a penalty which could be exacted out of its property in that State. Thereupon the executor paid the tax
under protest, and brought suit to recover it back.
The question here presented is whether North Carolina
can validly impose a transfer or inheritance tax upon
shares of stock owned by a non-resident in a business corporation of New Jersey, because the corporation does
business and has two-thirds of its property within the
limits of North Carolina. We think that the law of North
Carolina by which this is attempted, is invalid. It goes
without saying that a State may not tax property which is
not within its territorial jurisdiction. State Tax on Foreign Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Louisville Ferry Company
v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385; Delaware Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Union Ref. Transit Company v.
Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395, 399; United
States v. Bennett, 232 U. S. 299, 306; InternationalPaper
Company v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135, 142; Frick v.
Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, 488.
The tax here is not upon property, but upon the right
of succession to property, but the principle that the subject to be taxed must be within the jurisdiction of the
State applies as well in the case of a transfer tax as in that
of a property tax. A State has no power to tax the devo-

RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
69

81

Opinion of the Court.

lution of the property of a non-resident unless it has jurisdiction of the property devolved or transferred. In the
matter of intangibles, like choses in action, shares of stock,
and bonds, the situs of which is with the owner, a transfer
tax of course may be properly levied by the State in which
he resides. So, too, it is well established that the State in
which a corporation is organized may provide in creating
it for the taxation in that State of all its shares, whether
owned by residents or non-residents. Hawley v. Malden,
232 U. S.1, 12; Hannis Distillery Co. v. Baltimore, 216 U.
S.285, 293, 294; Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466; Tappan v. Bank, 19 Wall 490, 503.
In this case the jurisdiction of North Carolina rests on
the claim that, because the New Jersey corporation has
two-thirds of its property in North Carolina, the State
may treat shares of its stock as having a situs in North
Carolina to the extent of the ratio in value of its property
in North Carolina to all of its property. This is on the
theory that the stockholder is the owner of the property
of the corporation, and the State which has jurisdiction of
any of the corporate property has. pro tanto jurisdiction
of his shares of stock. We can not concur in this view.
The owner of the shares of stock in a company is not the
owner of the corporation's property. He has a right to
his share in the earnings of the corporation, as they may
be declared in dividends, arising from the use of all its
property. In the dissolution of the corporation he may
take his proportionate share in what is left, after all the
debts of the corporation have been paid and the assets are
divided in accordance with the law of its creation. But
he does not own the corporate property.
In Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 583, the question
was whether shares of stock in a national bank could be
subjected to state taxation if part or all of the capital
of the bank was invested in securities of the National
100569 °-26-6

82 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Government declared by the statute authorizing them to
be exempt from taxation by state authority. It was held
that they could be so taxed. Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking
for this Court, said, at pp. 583, 584:
"But, in addition to this view, the tax on the shares is
not a tax on the capital of the bank. The corporation
is the legal owner of all the property of the bank, real and
personal; and within the powers conferred upon it by the
charter, and for the purposes for which it was created, can
deal with the corporate property as absolutely as a private
individual can deal with his own. This is familiar law,
and will be found in every work that may be opened on
the subject of corporations.
" The interest of the shareholder entitles him to participate in the net profits earned by the bank in the employment of its capital, during the existence of its charter, in
proportion to the number of his shares; and upon its
dissolution or termination, to his proportion of the property that may rcmain of the corporation after the payment of its debts. This is a distinct independent interest
or property, held by the shareholder like any other property that may belong to him."
The same principle is declared in Jellenik v. Huron
Copper Company, 177 U. S. 1, in which it was held that
shares of stock in a corporation had a situs in the State
creating the corporation so that they were there subject
to mesne process. It is approved in Farringtonv. Ten-.
nessee, 95 U. S. 679, 686; in Hawley v. Malden, supra,
at p. 19; in Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 208, 213,
214, and in Des Moines Natl. Bank v. Fairweather, 263

U. S.103, 112.
In North Carolina and in some other States, the state
constitution requires all property. real and personal, to be
taxed equally. Laws have been passed exempting shares
of stock in North Carolina corporations from taxation,
on the ground that the property of the corporation is
taxed, which is held to be equivalent to taxing the shares.

RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
69

83

Opinion of the Court.

Person v. Watts, 184 N. C. 499; Jones v. Davis, 35 0. S.
474. But such cases grow out of state constitutional difficulties and are hardly applicable to questions of state jurisdiction of shares of foreign corporation stock. The cases
of Bronson's Estate, 150 N. Y. 1, 8, and In re Culver's
Estate, 145 Iowa 1, said to hold that a stockholder owns
the property of the corporation, are really authorities to
the point that shares of stock in a corporation of a State
have their situs for purposes of taxation in that State, as
well as in the residence of the owner of the shares. But
whatever the view of the other courts, that of this Court
is clear: the stockholder does not own the corporate property. Jurisdiction for tax purposes over his shares can
not, therefore, be made to rest on the situs of part of the
corporate property within the taxing State. North Carolina can not control the devolution of New Jersey shares.
That is determined by the laws of Rhode Island where the
decedent owner lived or by those of New Jersey, because
the shares have a situs in the State of incorporation.
There is nothing in the statutory conditions on which the
Tobacco Company began or continued business in North
Carolina which suggests that its shareholders subjected
their stock to the taxing jurisdiction of that State by the
company's doing business there.
Our conclusion is in accord with the great majority of
cases in the state courts where this exact question has
arisen. Welch v. Burrill, 223 Mass. 87; People v. Dennett,
276 Ill. 43; State v. Dunlap, 28 Idaho 784; State v.
Walker, 70 Montana 484; In re Harkness Estate, 83 Okla.
107. Tyler v. Dane County, 289 Fed. 843, contains a full
and satisfactory discussion of the subject in a Wisconsin
case which has been followed by the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin in Estate of Shepard, 184 Wis. 88. See article
by Professor Beale, 38 Harvard Law Review 291.
In an addendum to its opinion in this case, the Supreme
Court of North Carolina suggests that the jurisdiction of
the State to tax the shares of the New Jersey corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

may be based on the view that the corporation has been
domesticated in North Carolina. So far as the statutes
of the State show, it has been authorized to do and does
business in the Stat6 and owns property therein and pays
a fee for the permission to do so. It has not been re-incorporated in the State. It is still a foreign corporation
and the rights of its stockholders are to be determined
accordingly.
We conclude that the statute of North Carolina, above
set out, in so far as it attempts to subject the shares of
*stock in the New Jersey corporation, held by a resident
of Rhode Island, to a transfer tax, deprives the executor
of Briggs of his property without due process of law and
is invalid.
Judgment reversed.
INDEPENDENT WIRELESS TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 87.

Petition for rehearing; denied March 1, 1926.

This Court will not examine a point raised for the first time in a
petition for rehearing, after failure to raise it in the petition for
certiorari, briefs, or argument of counsel.

ON PETITION to rehear, after the decision reported in
269 U. S. 459.
Mr. William H. Davis, for petitioner.
Mr. John TV. Davis, with whom Mr. James J. Cosgrove
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a petition for rehearing of a case in which the
opinion was handed down January 11th last. The case

