CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. SCHENDEL.
593

611

Syllabus.

on the counterclaim because not warranted by the allegations or proof. Evidently for the purpose of facilitating
an appeal to this court, appellant, by stipulation, consented that the affidavits filed in support of the preliminary application should be treated as testimony in support
of the counterclaim and, on this, that the court of appeals
might direct the entry of a final decree. The district court
thought the pleadings and affidavits sufficient to warrant
a preliminary injunction and the court of appeals thought
them sufficient to sustain a decree making that injunction
permanent. We see no reason to differ with their conclusions.
Decree affirmed.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. SCHENDEL, ADMINISTRATOR.
THE SAME v. ELDER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE

OF

MINNESOTA.

Nos. 683, 684.

Argued March 17, 18, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. The effect of a judgment as res judicata between adverse parties
is not dependent on the arrangement of the parties in the record
or on which of them was the actor. P. 615.
2. A judgment on the same cause of action may be availed of as a
bar in an action pending in another jurisdiction which began before
the one in which the judgment was recovered. Id.
3. A judgment fixing the compensation recoverable on account of the
death of a railroad employee, due to an accident in Iowa, was
rendered by an Iowa court in proceedings under the Iowa compensation act brought by the railroad, and was pleaded by the railroad
in an action brought against it for the same cause in Minnqsota
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. Held that both courts
had jurisdiction to decide -whether the deceased was engaged mi
intrastate or interstate commerce, and that the Iowa judgment,
being the earlier one rendered, was res judicata in the other action,
although the other was brought first. P. 616.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

4. Whenever an action may be properly maintained or defended by
a trustee in his representative capacity without joining the beneficiary, the latter is bound by the judgment. P. 620.
5. The question of identity of parties in two actions is of substance;
parties nominally the same may be in legal effect different, and
parties nominally different may be in legal effect the same. Id.
6. Identity of parties exists between two proceedings to fix compensation or damages against a railroad for the accidental death of an
employee, in one of which the state compensation law was invoked
against the widow upon the ground that the deceased's employment
was intrastate, while in the other the administrator sued under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act upon the ground that it was
interstate, the widow being the sole beneficiary in both c.ses.
Troxell v. Delaware,etc. R. R., 227 U. S. 434, distinguished. P. 617.
7. A decision fixing compensation, under the Iowa statute, made by
the Deputy Industrial Commissioner, acting liy stipulation in lieu
of a board of arbitration, but pending on appeal to the Commissioner, is not final, and could not be invoked as an estoppel in
another action. P. 623.
163 Minn. 460, reversed. Ibid. 457, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to judgments of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota affirming judgments for damages in actions
brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. Edward S. Stringer,with whom Messrs. M. L. Bell,
W. F. Dickinson, Daniel Taylor, Thomas D. O'Brien, and
Alexander E. Horn were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Ernest A. Michel, with whom Mr. Tom Davis was
on the briefs, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERFAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases grow out of an accident on the line of the
railway company in Iowa, in which Hope was killed and
Elder was injured under circumstances establishing the
negligence of the railway company and its consequent
liability for damages. The defense in each case was that
the controlling issue had become res judicata. In the
Hope case, petitioner pleaded a final judgment, entered,

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. SCHENDEL.
611

613

Opinion of the Court.

under the Iowa Workmen's Compensation Law, by an
Iowa state court of record possessing general jurisdiction,
and, in the Elder case, a decision made by a deputy industrial commissioner appointed under the same law. In
both cases, the full faith and credit clause of the federal
Constitution was invoked. At the trials in the Minnesota district court, the judgment in the one case and the
decision in the other, together with a copy of the Iowa
Workmen's Compensation Law, all properly authenticated, were offered in evidence in support of the plea,
but, upon objection, excluded. Verdicts against the railway company were rendered and judgments entered accordingly. Appeals to the state supreme court followed.
The action of the Minnesota district court in refusing
to give effect to the Iowa judgment and decision was
assigned as error and duly challenged as denying them
the full faith and credit enjoined by the federal Constitution; but the Minnesota supreme court, upon full consideration, sustained the trial court in that respect and
affirmed both judgments. 163 Minn. 457, 460.
The Iowa Workmen's Compensation Law is elective in
form. Hope and Elder were residents of Iowa and employees of the railway company, and it is not in dispute
that they and the company had elected to be bound by
its provisions. The statute will be found in the Code of
Iowa, 1924, § 1361, et seq. It adopts a schedule of co.mpensation; creates the office of industrial commissioner,
and authorizes him to appoint a deputy, make rules and
regulations not inconsistent with the act, summon witnesses, administer oaths, etc.; and contains other provisions, not necessary to be stated, for its administration
and enforcement. If the parties fail to reach an agreement in regard to the compensation, the commissioner,
at the request of either party, is directed to form a committee of arbitration to consist of three persons, one of
whom shall be the commissioner, the others to be named

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

by the parties, respectively. The arbitrators are directed
to hear the case and decide the matter. Their decision,
together with a statement of the evidence, findings of
fact, rulings of law and other pertinent matters, must
then be filed with the commissioner. At the end of five
days after such filing, unless a review is sought in the
meantime, the decision becomes enforceable. Upon the
application of any party in interest, the commissioner
may review the decision; and, if any party be aggrieved
by reason of his order or decree thereon, such party may
appeal to the state district court having jurisdiction, in
the manner and upon the grounds set forth in the act.
The judgment of that court is given the same effect as
though rendered in a suit duly heard and determined
therein; and an appeal from it lies to the supreme court
of the state.
No. 683.
In the Hope case, the action was brought in the Minnesota district court on February 21, 1923, under the Federal Employers' Liability Law for the sole benefit of the
surviving widow. Thereafter, on March 2, 1923, the railway company instituted a proceeding before the Iowa
Industrial Commissioner under the Iowa Workmen's
Compensation Act. To this proceeding the decedent's
widow was made a party, as the sole beneficiary under the
act. The railway company asked for an arbitration. The
widow answered, asserting that the compensation act did
not apply because the company and the deceased were
both engaged in interstate commerce at the time of the
accident. Arbitrators were appointed, though the widow
did not join in their appointment. The arbitrators found
that deceased was engaged in intrastate commerce and
that the case was governed by the compensation act, and
awarded compensation to the widow. Thereupon, the
widow filed an application in review with the commissioner. That officer reviewed the facts, specifically found

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. SCHENDEL.
611

615

Opinion of the Court.

that the deceased was engaged in intrastate commerce,
and approved the award. The widow then appealed to
the district court of Lucas County, Iowa, and that court,
on June 2, 1923, specifically held that the deceased was
engaged in intrastate commerce and entered final judgment affirming the award. Thereafter, on March 4, 1924,
the present action was heard in the Minnesota district
court and verdict and judgment rendered for respondent.
The Minnesota supreme court held that the plea of
res judicata was bad for two reasons: (1) that "the
substantive right given the employe or his representative
by Congress under express constitutional grant, with the
courts to which he may go for its enforcement pointed
out to him, is a superior substantive right; and that
when he or his representative has chosen the forum to
wich to submit his cause, he cannot, against his ob..jection and upon the initiative of his employer, be required to submit it in a summary proceeding commenced
later under a compensation act;" and (2) that there was
a lack of identity of parties, since under the Iowa statute
the right of recovery is in the beneficiary while under the
federal act the right is in the personal representative.
1. It is evident from the opinion, that the court formulated the first reason with some hesitation. It is ele•mentary, of course, that, in any judicial proceeding, the
arrangement of the parties on the record, so long as they
are adverse, or the fact that the party against whom the
estoppel is ploaded was an objecting party, is of no consequence. A judgment is as binding upon an unwilling defendant as it is upon a willing plaintiff. Nor is it material that the action or proceeding, in which the judgment, set up as an estoppel, is rendered, was brought after
the commencement of the action or proceeding in which
it is pleaded. Where both are in personam, the second
action or proceeding "does not tend to impair or defeat
the jurisdiction of the court in which a prior action for

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Co,,L.

270 T. S.

the same cause is pending. Each court is free to proceed
in its own way and in its own time, without reference to
the proceedings in the other court. Whenever a judgnient is rendered in one of the courts and pleaded in the
other, the effect of that judgment is to be determined by
the application of the principles of rcs judicata by the
court in which the action is still pending in the order]exercise of its jurisdiction, as it would determine a-,
other question of fact or law arising in me progress of
the case. The rule, therefore, has become generally cxstablished that where the action first brought is in personain and seeks only a personal judgment, another action
for the same cause in another jurisdiction is not procluded." Kline v. Burke Constr. Co., 260 U. S. 226, 230.
It is urged in behalf of respondent, that the federal
act is supreme and supersedes all state laws in respect
of employers' liability in interstate commerce. That is
quite true; but it does not advance the solution of the
point in dispute, since it is equally true that, in respect
of such liability arising in intrastate commerce, the state
law is supreme. Judicial power to determine the question
in a case brought under a state statute is in no way inferior or subordinate to the same power in a case brought
under the federal act.
The Iowa proceeding was brought and determined upon
the theory that Hope was engaged in intrastate commerce; -the Minnesota action was brought and determined upon the opposite theory that he was engaged
in interstate commerce. The point at issue was the sane.
That the Iowa court had jurisdiction to entertain the
proceeding and decide the question under the state
statute, cannot be doubted. Under the federal act, the
Minnesota court had equal authority; but the Iowa judgment was first rendered. And, upon familiar principles,
irrespective of which action or proceeding was first
brought, it is the first final judgment rendered in one

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

dent. In either case, the controlling question is precisely
the same, namely, Was the deceased engaged in intrastate
or interstate commerce? and the right to be enforced is
precisely the same, namely, the right of the widow, as
sole beneficiary,, to be compensated in damages for her
loss. The fact that the party impleaded, under the state
law, was the widow, and, under the federal law, was the
personal representative, does not settle the question of
identity of parties. That must be determined as a matter
of substance and not of mere. form. The essential consideration is that it is the right of the widow, and of no
one else, which was presented and adjudicated in both
courts. If a judgment in the Minnesota action in. favor
of the administrator had been first rendered, it does not
admit of doubt that it would have been conclusive against
the right of the widow to recover under the Iowa compensation law. And it follows, as a necessary corollary,
that the Iowa judgment, being first, is equally conclusive
against the administrator in the Minnesota action; for,
if, in legal contemplation, there is identity of parties in
the 'one situation, there must be like identity in the other.
The first proposition finds support in Heckman v.
United States, 224 U. S. 413, 445-446, where this
court held that the. United States had capacity to maintain a suit to set aside conveyances made by Indian
allottees of allotted lands-and that the allottees need not
be joined.. The defendant in that case insisted that,
unless the allottees who had executed the conveyances
were brought in as parties, he was in danger of being
subjected to a second suit by the allottees. Answering
that contention, this court said:
"But if the United States, representing the owners of
restricted lands, is entitled to bring a suit of this character, it must follow that the decree will bind not only
the United States, but the Indians whom it represents in
the litigation. This consequence is involved in the rep-

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. SCHENDEL.
611

617

Opinion of the Court.

of the courts which becomes conclusive in the other as
res judicata. Boatmen's Bank v. Fritzlen, 135 Fed. 650,
667; Merritt v. American Steel-Barge Co., 79 Fed. 228,
234; Williams v. Southern Pac. Co., 54 Cal. App. 571,
575. And see Insurance Co.v. Harris, 97 U. S. 331, 336,
where the rule as stated was recognized.
The Iowa court., under the compensation law, in the
due exercise of its jurisdiction, having adjudicated the
character of the commerce in which the deceased was
engaged, that matter, whether rightly decided or not, must
be taken as conclusively established, so long as the judgment remains unmodified. United States v. Moser, 266
U. S. 236, 241, and cases cited. And, putting aside for
the moment the question in respect of identity of parties,
the judgment upon the point was none the less conclusive
as res judicata because it was rendered under the state
compensation law, while the action in which it was
pleaded arose under the federal liability law. Dennison
v. Payne, 293 Fed. 333, 341-342; Williams v. Southern
Pac. Co., supra, pp. 174-175.
2. In the Iowa proceeding, the widow of the deceased
was a party in her own right and clearly was bound by
the judgment. The action in Minnesota, however, was
brought by the administrator, and the state supreme
court, on the authority of Dennison v. Payne, supra, pp.
342-343, held that there was a want of identity of parties.
The decision in the Dcnnison.case rests entirely on Troxell
v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 227 U. S. 434. The effect
of the last named case we pass for later consideration.
Hope's death as the result of the negligence of the'railroad company gave rise to a single cause of action, to be
enforced directly by the widow, under the state law, or
in the name of the personal representative, for the sole
benefit of the widow, under the federal law, depending
upon the character of the commerce in which the deceased
and the company were engaged at the time of the acci-

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. SCHENDEL.
611

resentation.

619

Opinion of the Court.

Kerrison v. Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, 160;

Shaw v. Railroad Co., i00 U. S. 605, 611; Beals v. Ill. &c.
R. R. Co., 133 U. S. 290, 295. And it could not, consistently with any principle, be tolerated that, after the
United States on behalf of its wards had invoked the
jurisdiction of its courts to cancel conveyances in violation of the restrictions prescribed by Congress, these wards
should themselves be permitted to relitigate the question."
And, conversely, in United States v. Des Moines Valley
R. Co., 84 Fed. 40, where a suit in the name of the government was brought to enforce the right of a private
party, it was held that a. prior adverse adjudication by
a state court in -a suit against him personally, determining the same issues, was gvailable as an estoppel against
the government. The ground of the decision was thus
stated (pp. 44-45):
"Inasmuch, then, as the government sues for the sole
benefit of Fairchild, and for the professed purpose of reinvesting him with a title which he has lost, we are of
opinion that, whether the present action be regarded as
brought under the act of March 3, 1887 (24 Stat. 556,
c. 376), or as brought in pursuance of its general right to
sue, the government should be held estopped by the previous adjudications against the real party in interest in
the state court. The subject-matter and the issue to be
tried being the same in this proceeding 9s in the former
actions, the losing party on the former trials ought not
to be permitted to renew the controversy in the name of
a merely nominal plaintiff, and thereby avoid the effect
of the former adjudications. Southern Minnesota Railway Extension Co. v. St. Paul & S. C. R. Co., 12 U. S.
App. 320, 325, 5 C. C. A. 249, and 55 Fed. 690. This
doctrine was applied by this court in the case of Union
Pac. Ry. Co. v. U. S., 32 U. S. App. 311, 319, 15 C. C. A.
123, and 67 Fed. 975, which was a suit brought by the
United States under the act of March 3, 1887, wherein we

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

held that the United States was bound by an estoppel
which might have been invoked against the real party in
interest if the suit had been brought in his name, because
it appeared that the United States had no substantial
interest in the controversy, and was merely a nominal
plaintiff."
Since the statutory authority of the administrator is to
sue, not in his own right or for his own benefit or that of
the estate, but in the right and for the sole benefit of the
widow, the same principles are applicable, in accordance
with the general rule that "whenever an action may
properly be maintained or defended by a trustee in his
representative capacity without joining the' beneficiary,
the latter is necessarily bound by the judgment." 1 Freeman on Judgments, 5th ed., § 500. Identity of parties is
not a mere matter of form, but of substance. Parties
nominally the same may be, in legal effect, different, Bigelow on Estoppel, 6th ed., 145; and parties nominally different may be, in legal effect, the same. Calhoun's Lessee
v. Dunning, 4 Dall. 120, 121; Follansbee v. Walker, 74
Pa. St. 306, 309; In re Estate of Parks, 166 Iowa 403.
In the Follansbeecase, a judgment against Joshua Follansbee alone was held available as an estoppel in another
action brought by Walker & Follansbee for the use of
Joshua. Justice Sharswood, speaking for the court, said:
"The parties in that suit and in the action tried below
were substantially the same. In the former, Joshua Follansbee was the legal, in the latter, he is the equitable
plaintiff. The subject-matter of the two suits appeared
by the record to be identical. The presumption would be
upon the issues, that the merits had been passed upon in
the former proceeding. Such being the case, if no technical objection appeared to have been raised upon the
record to the right of Joshua Follansbee to maintain the
action as legal plaintiff, the judgment in that action would
be a bar to a subsequent action by him as equitable plain-

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. SCHENDEL.
611

621

. Opinion of the Court.

tiff. If it appeared that only the equitable, not the legal
right, was in Joshua Follansbee, it would be presumed
that the defendant had waived that purely technical
objection. It would be very unreasonable and contrary to
the settled rules upon the subject, to permit the plaintiff
having once been defeated on the merits, to try the same
question over again in a different form."
In the Parks case, a judgment against the sole beneficiary of an estate in her individual capacity, was held
conclusive in a subsequent action by the same plaintiff
against the same defendant as administratrix, on the
ground that, while theoretically the former suit was not
against the same defendant as administratrix, nevertheless
she was the sole beneficiary of the estate and represented
only herself in each case.
In Corcoran v. Chesapeake, etc. Canal Co., 94 U. S. 741,
745, this court, holding that a judgment against a trustee
for bondholders was conclusive in a suit involving the
same subject-matter, brought by him in his-individual
character, said: "It would be a new and very dangerous
doctrine in the equity practice to hold that the cestui que
trust is not bound by the decree against his trustee in the
very matter of the trust for which he was appointed."
See also, Kerrison, Assignee, v. Stewart et al., 93 U. S.155,
160; Spokane Inland R. R. v. Whitley, 237 U. S. 487, 496;
Estate of Bell, 153 Cal. 331, 344; Chandler v. Lumber Co.,
131 Tenn. 47, 51.
Upon facts almost identical with those now under
review, it was held in Williams v. Southern Pac. Co.,
supra, pp. 571, 576, that there was a substantial identity
of parties and that a judgment for the widow under the
California compensation act was available as an estoppel
in a prior action brought by her as administratrix under
the federal act.
It remains only to consider the bearing of the Troxell
case, supra, upon this point. Mrs. Troxell, the widow of

6-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

a deceased employee, sued the railroad company under a
state statute, for the benefit of herself and minor children,
to recover for the death of her husband resulting from a
negligent failure to provide safe instrumentalities. There
was a judgment against her. She then brought suit under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, as administratrix,
averring th negligence of a fellow-servant, a ground of
recovery which was not available to her in the action
under the state statute. It was held, following the general
rule, that, the cause of action in the two cases being different and the issue determined in the first not being
involved in the second, there was no estoppel. This was
decisive of the case, but the court proceeded to say that,
furthermore, there was not an identity of parties in the
two actions. Two former decisions of this court are
cited,-Brown v. Fletcher's Estate, 210 U. S. 82, and
Ingersoll v. Coram, 211 U. S. 335. Both cases, following
the well-established rule, simply decide that there is no
privity between administrators appointed in different
states, since the authority of an executor or administratoi
appointed in one state does not extend to the property or
administration in another state.,
Whether, in the light of the foregoing views, we now
should hold that where, as in the Troxell case, the rights
of additional beneficiaries, not actual parties to the first
judgment, are involved, the requirement of identity of
parties is unsatisfied, is a question we do not feel called
upon here to reexamine; since we are clear that such requirement is fully met in the situation now under consideration, where the sole beneficiary was an actual party
to the proceeding under the state law, and present by her
statutory representative in the action under the federal
law, and no other rights were involved.
No. 684.
In the Elder case, as in the case just considered, the
railway company began a proceeding before the indus-

CHICAGO, R. I. & P. RY. v. SCHENDEL.
611

623

Opinion of the Court.

trial commissioner. Elder answered, averring that he
was engaged in interstate commerce at the time of the
injury. The parties stipulated that the commissioner or
his deputy should take the place of the arbitration committee; and the deputy commissioner, pursuant to the
stipulation, heard the matter and filed his decision.
Thereupon, Elder applied for a review by the commissioner, under the statute, but no action had been taken
upon that application by the commissioner at the time
the judgment was rendered in the Minnesota court.
Under the Iowa statute, therefore, the decision had not
ripened into an enforceable award; and we are not called
upon to determine what, in that event, would have been
its effect as an estoppel. The proceeding being still in
fieri when the Minnesota case was tried and determined,
the doctrine of res judicata is not applicable.
There
must be a final judgment. Bigelow on Estoppel, 6th ed.,
p. 64; Webb v. Buckelew et al., 82 N. Y. 555, 559-560.
It follows that the judgment in the Hope case must be
reversed and that in the Elder case affirmed.
No. 683. Judgment reversed and cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
No. 684. Judgment affirmed.

