MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
7

Syllabus.

owner; and that upon satisfactory evidence of the loss of
a registered certificate the owner shall be entitled to payment of the registered amount. We agree with the Circuit
Court of Appeals that these conditions very plainly imported what on January 21, 1918, was embodied by the
Secretary of the Treasury in an authorized regulation, that
unregistered certificates would not be paid if lost. There
was good reason for the condition. The stamps are undistinguishable one from another. Therefore they could
be detached and put upon another certificate, and it
would be impossible for the Government to know whether
the stolen stamps that gave the value to the certificate
had been paid or not. The offer of indemnity was illusory,
and the case is not like that of a lost bond. The condition
limited the obligation of the Government to pay and
until it is complied with the plaintiff must put up with
his loss.
Decree affirmed.
MARYLAND v. SOPER, JUDGE.

(No. 1)

PETITION FOR A WRIT OF. MANDAMUS.

No. 23, Original.

Argued December 7, 1925.-Decided February 1,
1926.

1. The remedy of mandamus is grantable by this Court, in its sound
discretion, on petition oi a State to determine the legality of a
removal of a criminal case from a state to a federal court, under
Jud. Code § 33. P. 28.
2. The propriety of the writ in such cases results from the exceptional character of the proceeding sought to be reviewed and the
absence of any other provision for reviewing it; it does not depend
on lack of jurisdiction or abuse of discretion in the District Court.
Id.
3. Section 33 of the Judicial Code, which authorizes removal to the
District Court of any criminal prosecution commenced in any
court of a State against "any officer appointed under or acting
under or by authority of any revenue law of the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

270 U. S.

or against any person acting under or by authority of any such
officer, on account of any act (one unier color of his office or of
any such law, . . . ", applies to prohibition agents (and their
chauffeur) engaged in a quest for an illicit still, under commissions
from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue empowering them to
enforce -he prohibition acts and internal revenue acts relating to
manufacture, sale, taxation, etc., of intoxicating liquors. So held
in view of § 5 of the Act of November 23, 1921, (amending the
Prohibition Act,) which kept in force earlier laws and penalties
regarding manufacture, etc., of intoxicating liquors; of Rev. Stats.
§ 3282, forbidding and punishing unauthorized distilling, etc.; and
of § 28, Title II, of the Prohibition Act, extending to officers
enforcing that Act the "protection " conferred by law for the
enforcement of then existing laws relating to the manufacture, etc.,
of intoxicating liquors. P. 30.
4. In authorizing removal of a prosecution commenced "on account
of" any act done by the defendant, under color of Ins office, etc.,
§ 33 of the Judicial Code, supra, does not mean that the very act
charged, e. g., a homicide, must have been done by him; it is
enough if the prosecution is based on, or arises out of, acts which
he did, or his presence at the place, under authority of federal law,
in the discharge of his official duty. P. 32.
5. In his petition to remove'a prosecution, under § 33, supra, the
defendant must set forth all the circumstances known to him out
of which the prosecution arose, candidly, specifically and positively
explaining his relation to the matter and showing that it was confined to his acts as such officer. P. 34.
6. The petition must aptly plead the case upon which the defendant
relies so that the court may be fully advised and the State may
take issue by a motion to remand. Id.
7. A removal petition setting forth acts done by the petitioners in
performance of their duty as prohibition officers and alleging that
their indictment in a state court is a criminal prosecution on account of acts alleged to have been done by them at a time when
they were engaged in the performance of their duties as such
officers as so set forth, is insufficient. P. 35.
Mandamus awarded.
PETITION by the State of Maryland for a writ of mandamus directing the United States District Judge of
the District of Maryland to remand to the proper state
court an indictment for murder, which had been removed

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Argument for Maryland.

to the District Court under the provisions of § 33 of the
Judicial Code. See also the next two cases.
Messrs. Thos. H. Robinson, Attorney General of Maryland, and Herbert Levy, Assistant Attorney General of
Maryland, for petitioner.
Mandamus lies from this Court to compel a federal
district court to remand a criminal prosecution to the
state court where it is apparent from the record that the
federal court has no jurisdiction whatever of the case.
It has been broadly asserted that the inferior federal
tribunals have the power to decide whether or not they
have jurisdiction to try a civil cause properly brought
before them, and that such decisions are not open to collateral attack. Ex parte Hoard, 105 U. S. 578; Re Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323; Ex parte Nebraska, 209 U. S. 436; Ex
parte Gruetter,217 U. S. 586; Re Harding, 219 U. S. 363;
Ex parte Roe, 234 U. S. 70; Ex parte Park Square Automobile Station, 244 U. S. 412; Ex parte Riddle, 255 U. S.
450. In the Harding Case, all of the cases upon the subject were discussed, and the Court announced this general
rule, for civil cases. In doing so, it disapproved and qualified the following: Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449; Re
Moore, 209 U. S. 490; Re Winn, 213 U. S. 458.
In the Harding Case an exception to the general rule
was recognized as to the power of this Court. to utilize the
writ of mandamus to remand a criminal prosecution
"which, if wrong was committed, no power otherwise to
redress than by mandamus existed." This exception has
been recognized also in Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313;
Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107; Kentucky v. Powers, 201
U. S. 1.
Petitioner has no remedy by appeal from the order ot
the District Court of the United States refusing to remand the case to the state court, for it is well established
that such a review can be had only after final judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Maryland.

270 U. S.

McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661. Should the final judgment be an acquittal, in whole or in part, the State could
not have a writ of error to review it. United States v.
Sanges, 144 U. S. 310. Unless this Court entertains the
petition for mandamus, the State is without any redress.
Removal acts are strictly construed. Blake v. McKim,
103 U. S. 336; Sewing Mach. Co's. Case, 18 Wall. 553.
No case is subject to removal, which is not by its facts
brought completely within the defined class.
Section 33 of the Judicial Code was passed in consequence of an attempt by one of the States to make penal
the collection by United States officers of duties under
the tariff laws. Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257;
People's United States Bank v. Goodwin, 152 Fed. 937.
Its purpose is to protect the federal officers in the discharge of their official duties, and those who are employed
to act under them; but, further than providing this necessary protection to the administration of its revenues, the
federal Government is not interested. The statute must.
be interpreted with reference to its manifest spirit and
general purpose, and a word or phrase should not be extended beyond its proper relation to give jurisdiction.
Johnson v. Wells Fargo & Co., 98 Fed. 3; Virginia v. DeHart, 119 Fed. 626.
The jurisdiction of the federal court under removal
acts depends upon the statements made in the petition
for removal, verified by the oath of the petitioner. Virginiav. Paul, 148 U. S. 107; Salem & L. R. Co. v. Boston
& L. R. Co., 21 Fed. 228.
Federal prohibition agents acting under the National
Prohibition Law are not revenue officers and that law is
not a revenue law. Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557.
.Whether officers enforcing the prohibition law are entitled to remove prosecutions against them in state courts,
under § 33 of the Judicial Code, has never been passed
upon by this Court. The decisions of the lower federal

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)

13

.Argument for Maryland.

courts are not in accord. Oregon v. lVood, 268 Fed. 975;
Morse v. Higgins, 273 Fed. 830; Smith v. Gillian, 282
Fed. 628; Commonw'ealth v. Bogan, 285 Fed. 668; United
States v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 293 Fed. 931;
Wolkin v. Gibney, 3 Fed. (2d) 960. Section 28, Title II,
of the National Prohibition Act, does not enlarge the
scope of § 33 of the Judicial Code, so as to confer the
right of removal upon federal prohibition agents. Smith
v. Gillian, supra.
The facts, as set out in the amended petition, make it
abundantly clear that the duties which these petitioners
were alleged to have been performing at the time of the
happenings which form the basis of the indictment were
being performed in their capacity as federal prohibition
officers and not as general revenue officers enforcing
"other revenue statutes."
The following facts are pertinent: The petitioners deny
they brought about the death of Wenger, or had any
knowledge of who was responsible therefor, or how he,
Wenger, came to his death. It is nowhere .alleged that
the deceased was engaged in the violation of the National
Prohibition Law or any other revenue law at the time
of his decease; or that the agents suspected Wenger of
any such violation; or that Wenger was connected in"
any
way with any investigation in, which the agents allege
they were engaged; or that the homicide was the result of
any act upon the part of the agents to protect themselves
or each other in the discharge of any duty they were performing. The facts alleged do not show what act done by
them under color of their office or any revenue law can
be said to have resulted in the prosecution-not the .investigation they were conducting; nor any act of selfprotection or for the protection of each other; nor any act
in attempting to apprehend the supposed viqlators of the
National Prohibition Law; nor any act in returning to
Baltimore to report their investigation; nor any act in

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Maryland.

270 U. S.

attempting to obtain medical attention for the deceased.
If the prosecution was not on account of any act done
under color of their office or under color of any revenue
law, then it should not have been removed, because it
obviously did not arise on account of any right, title or
authority claimed by them under any revenue law, and
was not commenced against any person holding property
or estate by title derived from any revenue officer, and did
not affect the validity of any revenue law-the other two
classes of prosecutions to which the statute is applicable.
To permit of removal, the prosecution must have arisen
out of an act done under the color of their office or under
the color of a revenue law, unless the statute is construed
to mean that the right of removal is accorded to every
officer of the kind merely by virtue of his office, irrespective of the nature of his act or of the circumstances
under which it was committed. Certainly a mere denial
of guilt does not create a presumption that the acts
charged were done under color of his office.
It may be asserted that the construction contended for
by the State would require revenue officers to admit their
guilt or to establish their legal justification for the act
done as a condition precedent to the exercise of their
right of removal. That this argument is fallacious is
apparent from a comparison of § 33 of the Judicial Code
with Revised Statutes, § 753. The latter provides that
the federal courts shall have the power to release by
habeas corpus, persons "in custody for an act done or
omitted in pursuance of a law of the United States." To
warrant the exercise of this jurisdiction, this Court has
held that it must be established: (1) That, under the
circumstances disclosed, the petitioner for habeas corpus
was acting in pursuance of the law of the United States
and within the scope of his authority as a federal officer;
(2) that his confinement will injure and seriously affect
the authority and operations of the National Govern-

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Argument for Maryland.

ment; and (3) that the case was one of extreme urgency
where the federal court having heard the facts believes
that a proper exercise of the discretion vested in it demands the discharge of the prisoner. Drury v. Lewis,
200 U. S. 1. See also: Pales v. Paoli, 5 Fed. (2d) 280;
United States v. Weeden, 24 Fed. Cas. 738; In re Marsh,
51 Fed. 277; Castle v. Lewis, 254 Fed. 917; Cunningham
v. Neagle, 135 U. S. 1 ,'- follows that under Rev. Stats.
§ 753, petitioner must t1stablish, inter alia, his innocence
of the crime charged as a condition of his release. The
distinction between the two provisions of the law lies in
the words "under color of his office or of any such law."
The phrase, "under color" implies that, for removal, the
officer must establish prima facie, that is to say, he must
set up in his petition, such facts as show affirmatively
that the act upon which the prosecution is grounded was
done in the probable pursuance of his duties or was within
the apparent scope of his authority. When he seeks his
release by habeas corpus he must go further; he must
show that the act was actually within the scope of his
authority. A review of the cases .arising under § 33 of
the Judicial Code shows that, in every instance where
the removal was granted, some specific act under color of
his office or under color of a revenue law, was set forth,
either expressly or impliedly, in the petition for removal.
There was a statement of the act done by the officer,
resulting in his prosecution, which showed 'brima facie
that the act was done under color of his office. Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; Davis v. South Carolina,
107 U. S.597; Illinois v. Fletcher, 22 Fed. 776; Salem &
L. R. Co. v. Boston & L. R. Co., 21 Fed. Cas. 228.
A just interpretation does not authorize a writ of certiorari upon a statement of the mere opinion of the petitioner and his counsel that the act was done under color
of the office of an agent under the revenue laws of the
United States. Facts, not mere opinions or conclusions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

270 U. S.

law, should be set forth, so that it may appear whether in
judgment of law such a case exists as enables the petitioner to call for removal. Virginia v. Dehart, 119 Fed.
626; Virginia v. Felts, 133 Fed. 85; People's U. S. Bank v.
Goodwin, 162 Fed. 937. Alabama v. Peak, 252 Fed. 306 is
unsound. Oregon v. Wood, 268 Fed. 975; Smith v. Gillian,
282 Fed. 628: Commonwealth of Massachusettsv. Bogan,
285 Fed. 668.
The removal statute applies only where the act which is
the basis of the action or prosecution has some rational
connection with official duties under a "revenue law,"
and in some way affects the revenue of the Government.
In this case, the amended petition, which sets forth in
detail the facts upon which the petitioners rely, does not
meet the jurisdictional requirements for the removal of
the prosecution, even though this Court may be of the
opinion that in a proper case the removal acts are applicable to officers such as those described in the petition.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for respondent.
The five defendants stand on an equal footing, so far
as removal is concerned. Davis v. South Carolina,107 U.
S. 597. They are within the statutory terms: "officers
acting by authority of any revenue law of the United
States," or "persons acting under or by authority of any
such officer." - Their commissions empowered them to
enforce not merely the National Prohibition Act but also
the internal revenue laws which dealt with intoxicating
liquor. Sections of the Revised Statutes which deal with
the subject of illicit distilling are still presumably in force,
having been revived by § 5 of the Act of November 23,
1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 222. United States v. Stafoff, 260
U. S. 477. And their provisions were clearly applicable to
the circumstances disclosed by this case. The defendants
searching for an illicit still were not acting to enforce the

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Argument lor Respondent.

National Prohibition Act alone, but equally to enforce the
provisions of the older revenue laws. United States v.
Page, 277 Fed. 459. Their power to make searches and
seizures was derived not only from the National Prohibition Act but also from Rqv. Stats. 3166, 3276, 3278, and
3332. Cf. Steele v. United States (No. 2), 267 U. S. 505.
The National Prohibition Act may or may not itself
be a "revenue law" (Lipke v. Lederer, 259, U. S. 557);
and government officers relying on its provisions alone
may or may not be "revenue officers" in the strictest technical sense. There are provisions in the Prohibition Act
clearly designed for the raising of revenue. The older
provisions of the Revised Statutes, at any rate, are revenue measures under which taxes may still be imposed.
Congress may tax liquors, even though their production
is forbidden. United States v. Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450.
By the amendatory Act of 1921, (Nov. 23, 1921, c. 134,
42 Stat. 222) Congress has clearly manifested its intention
to do so. United States v. Stafoff, 260 U. S. 477. A commission as a "revenue officer" is not a necessary requirement for removal of a prosecution." Davis v. South Carolina, 107 U. S. 597; United States v. Page, 277 Fed. 459.
Even if they are not themselves "revenue officers," the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue is such an officer; and
the defendants were clearly "persons acting under or by
authority of" the Commissioner. Prosecutions against
prohibition agents are properly removable, as well as
prosecutions against "revenue officers".
The "protection" extended to prohibition agents by
§ 28 includes the right to seek removal of prosecutions
from the state courts. United States v. Pennsylvania,
293 Fed. 931; Massachusetts v. Bogan, 285 Fed. 668;
Morse v. Higgins, 273 Fed. 830; Oregon v. Wood, 268
Fed. 975. Smith v. Gillian, 282 Fed. 628, and Wolkin v.
Gibney, 3 Fed. (2d) 960, contra. Protection implies the
100569°-26----2

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

270 U. S.

right to conduct one's defense in a court where that defense can most properly be made. Massachusetts v.
Bogan, 285 Fed. 668.
The removal provisions of § 33 of the Judicial Code
are the lineal descendants of § 3 of the Force Act of 1833.
directed against Nullification in South Carolina. Act of
March 2, 1883, c. 57, 4 Stat. 632. See the President's
message on that occasion. Richardson's Messages and
Papers of the Presidents, vol. II, p. 610; Debates in Congress, vol. 9, part 1, p. 329. The removal provisions were
designed as a measure of protection to the agents of the
United States. Davis v. South Carolina, 107 U. S. 597;
Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; The Mayor v. Cooper,
6 Wall. 247; Massachusettsv. Bogan, 285 Fed. 668; In re
Duane, 261 Fed. 242; Peyton v. Bliss, Fed. Cas. No.
11055; Findley v. Satterfield, Fed. Cas. No. 4792; State
v. Hoskins, 77 N. Car. 530.
The prosecution was removable nothwithstanding the
fact that the defendants did not admit that they had any
part in the killing. In so far as Illinois v. Fletcher,22 Fed.
776, holds otherwise, it has twice been disapproved in
subsequent decisions. Alabama v. Peak, 252 Fed. 306;
Oregon v. Wood, 268 Fed. 975. The petition need only
set forth that at the time of the alleged crime the officer
was acting under color of his office or under authority
of the law; and it must allege that the prosecution is for
acts alleged to have been done in the performance of his
duty. It is not necessary for him to disclose before trial
his complete defense to the indictment, nor to adduce
full evidence showing justification of his official acts. It
is enough, in the words of the statute, to show that the
prosecution arises on account of any act done under color
of his office or of any such law. The phrase " color of
office " covers a claim which may later turn out to be
groundless, as well as a claim which full investigation
shows to have been well founded. Indeed, the former

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Argument for Respondent.

meaning is probably the more usual one. Bouvier, L. D.,
s. v. " Color of Office "; Virginia v. De Hart, 119 Fed. 626;
Griffiths v. Hardenbergh,41 N. Y. 464; Wilson v. Fowler,
88 Md. 601; McCain v. Des Moines, 174 U. S. 168. The
statute requires only a fair showing that the officer was
acting at the time in the probable course of his duty.
Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257.
The decision of the District Court granting the petition for removal, and denying the motion to remand, was
an exercise of lawful judicial discretion, and can not be
controlled by mandamus. United States v. Lawrence,
Judge, 3 Dall. 42; Ex parte Bradstreet, 8 Pet. 588. Cf.
Ex parte Taylor, 14 How. 2; Ex parte Secombe, 19 How.
9; Ex parte Newman, 14 Wall. 152; Ex parte Cutting,
94 U. S. 14; High, Extraordinary Legal Remedies (3d.
ed.), § 149; In re Rice, 155 U. S. 396; Ex parte Roe, 234
U. S. 70; Ex parte Slater, 246 U. S. 128; Ex parte Chicago,
Rock Island and Pacific Railway, 255 U. S. 273; Ex parte
Hoard, 105 U. S. 578; Ex parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363.
An exception may perhaps be recognized with respect
to the removal of criminal causes. And in three cases
this Court has granted mandamus to compel the remand
of criminal cases wrongfully removed from the state
courts. Virginiav. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Virginia v. Paul,
148 U. S. 107; Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S. 1. In each
of these cases the petition for removal upon its face clearly
showed that no grounds for removal existed. The record
in each case demonstrated the lack of jurisdiction of the
federal court. On the other hand, where the jurisdiction
of the lower court is doubtful, the remedy by mandamus
will be refused. Ex parte Muir, 254 U. S. 522.
In Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, this Court held
that the protection afforded by Rev. Stats. § 641 extended
only to cases where there had been a denial of equal rights
by the law of the State. Denial of equal rights by the
wrongful practice of state officials, (unauthorized by law,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

furnished no ground for removal. The petition of the
accused negroes, therefore, on its face failed to disclose
any possible ground for removal, and the Circuit Court
had no possible ground for assuming jurisdiction. Kentucky v. Powers, 139 Fed. 452 was very similar.
In Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107, is the only case where
this Court has granted mandamus to remand a prosecution
against a federal officer. It went upon the ground that no
prosecution had been "commenced" at the time removal
was sought. A prosecution for murder in Virginia was
held to be " commenced," only by the finding of an indictment, and not by the issuance of a warrant of arrest.
Until the indictnment is found, there is no "prosecution"
to remove. The Circuit Court was therefore without any
jurisdiction to order removal upon the petition filed in
that case. Not one of those decisions turned upon the
sufficiency of allegations as to the official capacity of the
accused, or as to the fact that the indictment was for a
crime committed in the course of his duty.
In the case at bar it is submitted that the District Court
had ample facts before it upon which to base its assumption of jurisdiction. Upon the amended petition for removal and the motion by the State to quash and remand,
the court was called upon to decide mixed questions of
law and fact. It is submitted that the decision of the
District Court was final. Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S.
257; Virginia v. Felts, 133 Fed. 85; Virginia v. De Hart,
119 Fed. 626. If jurisdiction is clear, or even if jurisdiction
is doubtful, mandamus will not lie. In re Cooper, 143
U. S. 472; Ex parte Muir,.254 U. S. 522.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a petition by the State of Maryland. for a writ
of mandamus against Morris A. Soper, the United States
District Judge for Maryland, directing him to remand
an indictment for murder, found in the Circuit Court for

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
Opinion of the Court.

9

Harford County, Maryland, against four prohibition
agents and their chauffeur, which was removed to the
United States District Court under § 33 of the Judicial
Code, as amended August 23, 1916, 39 Stat. 532, c. 399.
The text of the amended section in so far as it is material
here is set out in the margin.*
The indictment, found February 10, 1925, charged as
follows:
" The jurors of the State of Maryland, for the body of
Harford County, do on their oath present that Wilton L.
Stevens, John M. Barton, Robert D. Ford, E. Franklin
Ely, and William Trabing, late of Harford County aforesaid, on the nineteenth day of November, in the year of
our Lord nineteen hundred and twenty-four, at the
County aforesaid, feloniously, wilfully, and of their deliberately premeditated malice aforethought did kill and
murder Lawrence Wenger; contrary to the form of the
Act of Assembly in such case made and provided; and
against the peace, government, and dignity of the State."
Sec. 33. That when any civil suit or criminal prosecution is
commenced in any court of a State agdinst any officer appointed
under or acting by authority of any revenue law of the United States
now or hereafter enacted, or against any person acting under or by
authority of any such officer, on account of any act done under color
of his office or of .any such law, or on account of any right, title, or
authority claimed by such officer or other person under any such law,
or is commenced against any person holding property or estate by
title derived from any such officer and affects the validity of any
such revenue law, or against any officer of the courts of the United
States for or on account of any act done under color of his office or
in the performance of his duties as such officer, or when any civil
suit or criminal prosecution is commenced against any person for or
on account of anything done by him while an officer of either House
of Congress in the discharge of his official duty in executing any order
of such House, the said suit or prosecution may at any time before
the trial or final hearing thereof be removed for trial into the district court next to be holden in the district where the same is pending upon the petition of such defendant to said district court and in
the following manner."
*"

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion ot the Court.

270 U.S.

The defendants were arrested, and on February 11,
1925, filed a petition in the United States District Court
for the District of Maryland, in which they averred that
they were Federal prohibition agents, except Trabing,
who was their chauffeur, and was assisting them and was
acting under the authority of the Prohibition Director,
and that the act or acts done by Trabing, as chauffeur
and helper, as well as by the other defendants, at the
time when they were alleged to have been guilty of the
murder of Lawrence Wenger, which charge they all
denied, were done in the discharge of their official duties
as prohibition agents, and as officers of the internal revenue in the discharge of their duty. Thereupon an order of
removal, together with a writ of certiorari, and habeas
corpus cum causa, pursuant to § 33, was made by Judge
Soper of the District Court. On March 12th, the State
of Maryland, by its Attorney General and the State's Attorney for Ilarford County, appeared specially and made a
motion to quash the writ and rescind the order. On the
17th of May, the cause came on for hearing on the motion
to quash, and the defendants having applied for leave of
court to amend the petition, it was granted, and an
amended ,petition was filed. After setting out the indictment, the third, fourth, and fifth paragraphs of the
amended petition were as follows:
" 3. That the acts alleged to have been done by the
petitioner William Trabing are alleged to have been done
at a time when he was engaged in the discharge of his
duties while acting under and by authority of Federal
Prohibition Director Edmund Budnitz and Federal Prohibition Officers Robert D. Ford, John M. Barton, Wilton L. Stevens and E. Franklin Ely, as aforesaid, while
the said officers were engaged in the discharge of their
official duties as prohibition officers in making and attempting to make an investigation concerning a violation

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Opinion of the Court.

of the National Prohibition Act and other Internal Revenue Laws and while reporting and preparing to report the
results of said investigation and in protecting himself and
the said officers of the Internal Revenue in the discharge
of his and their duty as set out in Paragraph 4 below.
"4. That the acts alleged to have been done by the
petitioners Robert D. Ford, John M. Barton, Wilton L.
Stevens, and E. Franklin Ely, are alleged to have been
done at a time when they were engaged in the discharge
of their official duties as Federal Prohibition Officers, and
in making and attempting to make an investigation concerning a violation of the National Prohibition Act and
other Internal Revenue Laws, and in reporting the results
of said investigation, and in protecting themselves in the
discharge of their duty as follows:
"That on November nineteenth, nineteen hundred and
twenty-four, your petitioners were directed by Maryland
Federal Prohibition Director Edmund Budnitz to investigate the alleged unlawful distillation of intoxicating liquor on a farm known as the Harr-y Carver farm situated
approximately three miles from the village of Madonna,
about twelve miles northwest from Bel Air, Maryland,
which said property was then unoccupied. Your petitioners reached the said farm premises shortly after mid(lay on November nineteenth, nineteen hundred and
twenty-four, and discovered there in a secluded wooded
valley and swamp materials for an illicit distilling operation, to wit, nine empty mash boxes, three fifty-gallon
metal drums, a fifty-gallon condenser, about one thousand
pounds of rye meal in bags, a lighted fire, and men's working clothes. Your petitioners thereupon concealed themselves in woods and shrubbery nearby the still site and
shortly thereafter became aware of the approach of a
number of men bringing with them a still. Your petitioners thereupon made their presence known to the men
who were approaching, and the men immediately dropped

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

the still and fled; and though your petitioners pursued
them across the fields, no one of the fleeing men was overtaken or arrested. Thereupon your petitioners returned
to the still site, destroyed the materials before mentioned
which constituted the unlawful distilling plant, and
started to return to their car which had been left some
distance from the still site, for the purpose of returning
to Baltimore to report to the office of the Maryland Federal Prohibition Director concerning the results of their
investigation, when they discovered a man, whom they
afterwards learned to be one Lawrence Wenger, mortally
wounded and lying beside the path along which they
were walking, some 400 or 500 yards from the still site
and in a direction opposite to that from which the unknown men had approached and towards which they fled.
Whereupon your petitioners carried the wounded man to
their car and took him to Jarrettsville, Maryland, for
medical treatment, but finding none there available, proceeded with all speed to Bel Air, where they sought out
in turn Doctors Richardson, Sappington and Archer, without success, and finally placed the said Lawrence Wenger
in charge of Doctor Van Bibber, who pronounced him
dead. Your petitioners then, acting under the advice of
the said Doctor Van Bibber, removed the body of the
said Lawrence Wenger to the undertaking establishment
of Dean and Foster in Bel Air. Your petitioners then
proceeded to the State's Attorney's 6ffice in Bel Air and
related the facts aforesaid to the State's Attorney; whereupon, on being informed by them that your petitioners
Robert D. Ford, John M. Barton, Wilton L. Stevens, and
E. Franklin Ely were prohibition officers and that your
petitioner William Trabing was employed by the Federal
Prohibition Director as their chauffeur, they were placed
under arrest by the sheriff of Harford County at the instance of the State's Attorney and were confined in the
Harford County jail until the following morning, Novem-

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

25

Opinion of the Court.

ber twentieth, nineteen hundred and twenty-four. On
the morning of November twentieth, nineteen hundred
and twenty-four, your petitioners were taken by the
Sheriff and State's Attorney, in company with a number
of men who that afternoon served upon the coroner's jury
mentioned in the indictment, and in company with two
Baltimore city police headquarters detectives, to the scene
of their investigation of the previous day. They related
the facts concerning their investigation of the unlawful
distilling operation and their finding of the said Lawrence
Wenger on November nineteenth, and then and there
went over the scene of the said occurrences, relating freely
and without reservation the events which took place
November nineteenth, in accordance with their duty as
investigating and reporting officers of the Federal Government and in compliance with their duties as Federal
Prohibition Officers. Likewise on the afternoon of November twentieth your petitioners were called before the
coroner's inquest heretofore described in the indictment,
and freely and without reservation in accordance with
their duty as investigating and reporting officers of the
Federal Government and acting under the direction of
the Maryland Federal Prohibition Director, related the
facts aforementioned. And thereupon they were again
placed in the Harford County jail and held for action of
the Harford County Grand Jury until their release on bail
upon the evening of November twentieth, nineteen hundred and twenty-four, at the instance of the United States
Attorney for the District of Maryland acting on their
behalf.
"5. That the said criminal prosecution was commenced
-in the manner following:
"A presentment against your petitioners was returned
in the Circuit Court for Harford County, February ninth,
nineteen hundred and twenty-five, following which presentment the State of Maryland, by the State's Attorney

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

for Harford County, prosecuted and sued forth out of the
Circuit Court for Harford County a writ of the State of
Maryland of CapiasAd Respondendum against your petitioners, to which there was no return by the Sheriff of
Harford County, whereupon the indictment heretofore set
forth was returned.
"The said indictment is now pending in the Circuit
Court for Harford County and is a criminal prosecution
on account of acts alleged to have been done by your
petitioners at a time when they were engaged in the
performance of their duties as Federal Prohibition Officers
and chauffeur for Federal Prohibition Officers as set forth
in the aforegoing paragraphs.
"Wherefore, your petitioners pray that the said suit
may be removed from the Circuit Court for Harford
County, aforesaid, to this Honorable Court, and that
writs of certiorari and habeas corpus cum causa may issue
for that purpose pursuant to the statute of the United
States in such case made and provided. (U. S. Compiled Statutes, Sec. 1015, being Judicial Code, Sec. 33, as
amended Act August 23, 1916, c. 399; Prohibition Act,
Title II, Section 23.)"
A motion to quash the amended petition, April 11, 1925,
was based on the ground, among others, that the allegations of the amended petition did not disclose a state of
facts entitling the defendants to have the writ issue, or
to have the charge against them removed. On May 5,
1925, Judge Soper denied the motion to quash, and
directed that the order of court removing the indictment
be ratified and confirmed. On the same day, the following stipulation was entered into by the parties:
"It is stipulated by and between the parties hereto
that Robert D. Ford, John M. Barton, Wilton L. Stevens
and E. Franklin Ely, during the month of November, in
the year 1924, and prior to said time, and at the time of
the matters and facts charged in the indictment in the

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court for Harford County, were Federal Prohibition Officers, holding a commission under the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and countersigned by the
Federal Prohibition Commissioner, in the form following,
that is to say:
' This certifies that ....................
is hereby, employed as a Federal Prohibition Officer to act under the
authority of and to enforce the National Prohibition Act
and Acts supplemental thereto and all Internal Revenue
Laws, relating to the manufacture, sale, transportation,
control, and taxation of intoxicating liquors, and he is
hereby authorized to execute and perform all the duties
delegated to such officers by law.'
"And that William Trabing was, at the time of the
acts alleged in the indictment in the Circuit Court for
Harford County, a chauffeur of the Reliable Transfer
Company, engaged and employed by Edmund Budnitz,
Federal Prohibition Director of the State of Maryland,
in the capacity of chauffeur for the Prohibition Agents
above named."
The State of Maryland applied to this Court for leave
to file its petition for mandamus, in which it set forth
fully the facts as above stated, including, as exhibits, the
petition for removal, the amended petition for removal,
its motion to quash, the stipulation, and the orders of
the District Court. This Court, granting leave, issued
a rule against Judge Soper to show cause why the writ
of mandamus should not issue in accordance with the
prayer of the State.
Judge Soper, in his answer to the rule, recited the facts
of the record as already given, said that the District Court
was of opinion that the petitioners were entitled to removal under § 33 of the Code as revenue officers, or,
if not as revenue officers, as agents of the Commissioner by virtue of § 28 of the National Prohibition
Act; that a prosecution had been commenced against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

petitioners on account of acts done under color of their
office and of the revenue and prohibition laws of the
United States, notwithstanding that the petitioners did
not admit having caused the death of Wenger, and that
it had adjudged that it possessed ample jurisdiction to
order the removal and to try the case; and he therefore
asked that the rule be discharged and that the petition
of the State be dismissed.
It is objected on behalf of the respondent that this is
not a prcper case for mandamus; that whether the facts
averred in the amended petition come within the requirement of !j33 of the Judicial Code is a question within the
regular judicial function of the District Court to decide,
and that this Court should not interfere thus prematurely
with its exercise.
Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, Virginia v. Paul, 148
U. S. 107, and Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S. 1, were
cases in which criminal prosecutions by a State, removed
to a federal court under asserted compliance with federal
statutes, were ordered remanded by writ of mandamus.
The Attorney General of Maryland relies on them to show
1hat the writ may issue to test the legality of the removal
in all criminal cases. On behalf of the United States, it
is pointed out that these cases differ from the one before
us, in that in the former the State prosecution had not
reached a stage for removal, or was not of a character in
which, under the language of the statute, removal could
be had at all, and so the federal court was wholly without
jurisdiction. The writ in those cases was justified by the
Court because of the gross abuse of discretion of the lower
court, its clear lack of jurisdiction, and the absence of any
other remedy. Ex parte Harding,219 U. S. 363, at p. 373.
In this case, the facts averred show the prosecution to be
of the class and character in which removal is permitted
by § 33, and there is no lack of jurisdiction or abuse of
discretion; and the only issue made is on the interpreta-

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the facts and the application of the section, an
issue clearly within the judicial jurisdiction of a district
court.
Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy which is issued
by this Court under Rev. Stats., § 688 to courts of the
United States in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction,
and in civil cases does not lie to compel a reversal of a
decision, either interlocutory or final, made in the exercise of a lawful jurisdiction, especially where in regular
course the decision may be reviewed upon a writ of error
or appeal. Ex parte Roe, 234 U. S. 70, 73; Ex parte Tiffany, 252 U. S. 32, 37; Ex parte Park Square Automobile
Station,244 U. S. 412; Ex parte Slater, 246 U. S. 128; 134;
Ex parte Oklahoma, 220 U. S. 191, 209; Ex parte Harding,
219 U. S. 363; Ex parte Nebraska, 209 U. S. 436; Ex parte
Hoard, 105 U. S. 578.
It may be conceded that there are substantial differences between Virginia v. Paul, Virginia v. Rives, and
Kentucky v. Powers, and this case. But we do not think
that those differences should prevent the issue of the
mandamus here. In respect of the removal of state prosecutions, there should be a more liberal use of mandamus
than in removal of civil cases. We exercise a sound judicial discretion in granting or withholding the writ. It
may be "in cases warranted by the principles and usages
of law." Rev. Stats., § 688; Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wall.
364, 376; Virginia v. Rives, supra, at p. 323, separate
opinion of Mr. Justice Field, ibid. at p. 329. It is granted
in analogy to the intervention of equity to secure justice
in the absence of any other adequate remedy. Duncan
Townsite Co. v. Lane, 245 U. S. 308, 312. In the case
before us and in all state prosecutions removed under
§ 33, the jurisdiction of the courts of a State to try offenses against its own laws and in violation of its own
peace and dignity is wrested from it by the order of an
inferior federal court. The State by its petition for man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

damus becomes a suitor at the bar of this Court to challenge the legality of the inferior court's action. Conceding the validity of the exceptional use of the national supremacy in a proper case, it seeks by this writ to test its
propriety here. Except by the issue of mandamus, it is
without an opportunity to invoke the decision of this
Court upon the issue it would raise. The order of the
United States District Judge refusing to remand is not
open to review on a writ of error, and a judgment of
acquittal in that court is final. United States'v. Sanges,
144 U. S. 310; Virginia v. Paul, supra, at p. 122. The
fact that the United States District Court may be proceeding in the exercise of a lawful jurisdiction should
not, under such exceptional circumstances, prevent this
Court from extending to the State the extraordinary
remedy.
We come then to the sufficiency of the amended petition for removal under § 33 of the Judicial Code to justify
the District Court in denying the motion to remand.
The first objection made by the State to the removal is
that prohibition agents can not have the benefit of § 33,
because they are not officers "appointed under or acting
by authority of any revenue law of the United States,"
as provided in the section. Four of the defendants are admitted to have been acting under commissions issued by
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, "empowering
them to enforce the National Prohibition Acts and Acts
supplemental thereto, and all Internal Revenue Laws, relating to the manufacture, sale, transportation, control,
and taxation of intoxicating liquors." The fifth defendant, Trabing, it is admitted, was acting as a chauffeur and
helper to the four officers under their orders and by direction of the Prohibition Director for the State. It is not
denied on behalf of the State that he has the same right
to the benefit of § 33 as they. Davis v. South Carolina,
107 U. S. 597.

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Opinion of the Court.

The Act of November 23, 1921, 42 Stat. 223, c. 134,
§ 5, known as the Willis-Campbell law, amending the
National Prohibition Act, 41 Stat. 307, c. 85, provides that,
"All laws in regard to the manufacture and taxation of
a traffic in intoxicating liquor and all penalties for violations of such law, that were in force when the National
Prohibition Act was enacted, shall be and continue in
force as to both beverage and non-beverage liquor, except
such provisions of such laws as are directly in conflict
with any provision of the National Prohibition Act or of
this Act."
Rev. Stats., § 3282, forbidding fermenting of mash or
wort, or the making of spirits therefrom on premises other
than a distillery authorized by law, and by a duly authorized distiller, and punishing its violation by fine and imprisonment, is not in conflict with anything in the Prohibition Act. The Willis-Campbell Act thus makes clear
the criminality of such an act under the revenue laws.
United States v. Stafoff, 260 U. S. 477. In searching for
the still for the purpose of preventing the violation of
law, the prohibition agents in this case were therefore acting under the authority of the revenue laws.
More than this, they were brought within the application of § 33 by the provision of § 28, Title II, of the
National Prohibition Act, providing that the commissioner, his assistants, agents, and inspectors, and all other
officers of the United States whose duty it is to enforce
criminal laws, shall have all the power and protection in
the enforcement of the Act, or any provisions thereof,
which is conferred by law for the enforcement of existing
laws relating to the manufacture or sale of intoxicating
liquor under the law of the United States. We have no
doubt that the word "protection" was inserted for the
purpose of giving to officers and persons acting under
authority of the National Prohibition Act in enforcement
of its provisions, the same protection of a trial in a federal

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

court of state prosecutions as is accorded to revenue
officers under § 33.
Section 33 was derived from § 643 of the Revised Statutes, which in turn was derived from the Act of July 13,
1866, 14 Stat. 171, c. 184, § 37, and the Act of June 13,
1864, 13 Stat. 241, c. 173, § 50. These acts extend the
Act of March 2, 1833, 4 Stat. 633, c. 57, § 3, applying to
officers engaged in collection of customs duties, to those
engaged in the collection of internal revenue. People's
United States Bank v. Goodwin, 162 Fed. 937, 939; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257, 267. The Act of 1833 was
enacted in the days of attempted nullification of national
customs revenue laws in South Carolina and was during
the Civil War extended to those charged with collecting
the internal revenue. Congress not without reason assumed that the enforcement of the National Prohibition
Act was likely to encounter in some quarters a lack of
sympathy and even obstruction, and sought by making
§ 33 applicable to defeat the use of local courts to embarrass those who must execute it. The constitutional
validity of the section rests on the right and power of
the United States to secure the efficient execution of its
laws and to prevent interference therewith, due to possible local prejudice, by state prosecutions instituted
against federal officers in enforcing such laws, by removal
of the prosecutions to a federal court to avoid the effect of
such prejudice. Tennessee v. Davis, supra.
Do the facts disclosed by the amended petition for
removal bring the defendants within § 33? The State
insists that they are insufficient because they do not
show that the defendants committed the act of homicide
upon which the indictment is founded. The case of Illinois v. Fletcher, 22 Fed. 776, seems to hold that a revenue officer can take advantage of the statute and secure
a trial in a federal court only by admitting that he did
the act for which he is prosecuted. We think this too

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
9

Opinion of the Court.

narrow a construction of the section. Cleveland, Columbus, etc., Railroad v. McClung, 119 U. S. 454, 461.
The prosecution to be removed under the section must
have been instituted "on account of" acts done by the
defendant as a federal officer under color of his office or
of the revenue or prohibition law. There must be a causal
connection between what the officer has done under
asserted official authority and the state prosecution. It
must appear that the prosecution of him, for whatever
offense, has arisen out of the acts done by him under
color of federal authority and in enforcement of federal
law, and he must by direct averment exclude the possibility that it was based on acts or conduct of his not
justified by his federal duty. But the statute does not
require that the prosecution must be for the very acts
which the officer admits to have been done by him under
federal authority. It is enough that his acts or his presence at the place in performance of his official duty constitute the basis, though mistaken or false, of the state
prosecution.
Suppose that the prosecution of the officer for murder
was commenced merely on account of the presence of the
officer, in discharge of his duties in. enforcing the law, at
or near the place of the killing, under circumstances cast,
ing suspicion of guilt on him. He may not even know
who did the killing, and yet his being there and his official activities may have led to the indictment. He may
certainly claim the protection of the statute on the ground
that the prosecution was commenced against him " on
account of" his doing his duty as an officer under color of
such a law, without being able to allege that he committed
the very act for which he is indicted. It is enough if the
prosecuti)n for murder is based on or arises out of the
acts he did under authority of federal law in the discharge
of his duty and only by reason thereof.
100569*°-26--3

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion o" the Court.

270 U. S.

In invoking the protection of a trial of a state offense
in a federal court under § 33, a federal officer abandons
his right to refuse to testify because accused of crime, at
least to the extent of disclosing in his application for removal all the circumstances known to him out of which
the prosecution arose. The defense he is to make is that
of his immunity from punishment by the State, because
what he did was justified by his duty under the federal
law, and because he (lid nothing else on which the prosecution could be based. He must establish fully and fairly
this defense by the allegations of his petition for removal
before the-federal court can properly grant it. It is incumbent on him, conformably to the rules of good pleading, to make the case on which he relies, so that the court
may be fully advised and the State may take issue by a
motion to remand. Chesapeake & Ohio Raiway Company v. Cockrell, 232 U. S. 146, 151, 152, and cases cited.
See also concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Field in Virginia v. Rives, supra, at p. 332, and Hanford v. Davies,.
163 U. S. 273, 279.
We think that the averments of the amended petition
in this case are not sufficiently informing and specific to
make a case for removal under § 33. We have set forth
the account the defendants gave in their amended petition
of what they saw and did, but the only averments important in directly connecting the prosecution with their acts
are at the opening and close of their petition. They refer
to the death of Wenger only by incorporating the indictinent in the petition, and then say that " the acts I i. e. the
killing of Wenger] alleged to have been done by petitioners Robert D. Ford, John M. Barton, Wilton L. Stevens
and E. Franklin Ely, are alleged to have been at a time
when they were engaged in the discharge of their official
duties as Federal Prohibition Officers, and in making and
attempting to make an investigation concerning a violation of the National Prohibition Act and other Internal

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
Opinion of the Court.

Revenue Laws and in reporting the results of said investigation, and in protecting themselves in the discharge of
their duty." The amended petition closes with the statement that the indictment "is a criminal prosecution on
account of acts alleged to have been done by your petitioners at a time when they were engaged in the performance of their duties as Federal Prohibition Officers and
chauffeur for Federal Prohibition Officers as set forth in
the foregoing paragraphs."
These averments amount to hardly more than to say
that the homicide on account of which they are charged
with murder was at a time when they were engaged in
performing their official duties. They do not negative the
possibility that they were doing other acts than official
acts at the time and on this occasion, or make it clear and
specific that whatever was done by them leading to the
prosecution was done under color of their federal official
duty. They do not allege what was the nature of
Wenger's fatal wound, whether gunshot or otherwise,
whether they had seen him among those who brought the
still and fled, or whether they heard, or took part in any
shooting. They do not say what they did, if anything,
in pursuit of the fugitives. It is true that, in their narration of the facts, their nearness to the place of Wenger's
killing and their effort to arrest the persons about to engage in alleged distilling are circumstances possibly suggesting the reason and occasion for the criminal charge
and the prosecution against them. But they should do
more than this in order to satisfy thestatute. In order to
justify so exceptional a procedure, the person seeking the
benefit of it should be candid, specific and positive in
explaining his relation to the transaction growing out of
which he has been indicted, and in showing that his relation to it was confined to his acts as an officer. As the
defendants in their statement have not clearly fulfilled
this requirement, we must grant the writ of mandamus,

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Maryland.

270 U. S.

directing the District Judge to remand the indictment and
prosecution. Should the District Judge deem it proper
to allow another amendment to the petition for removal,
by which the averments necessary to bring the case within § 33 are supplied, he will be at liberty to do so. Otherwise the prosecution is to be remanded as upon a peremptory writ.
MARYLAND v. SOPER, JUDGE. (No. 2)
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 24 Original. Argued December 7 1925.-Decided February 1,
1926.

An indictment in a state court charging federal prohibition agents
with a conspiracy to obstruct justice by giving false testimony at
a coroner's inquest concerning a homicide for which they were
then under arrest and subsequently were indicted for murder, is
not removable to the federal court under § 33 of the Judicial Code,
even though the murder charge would be removable as one commenced "on account " of their official acts. P. 42.
Mandamus made absolute.

by the State of Maryland for a writ of mandamus dlrecting the United States District Judge of the
District of Maryland to remand to the proper state court
an indictment for conspiracy to obstruct justice by false
testimony, which had been removed to the District Court
under the provisions of § 33 of the Judicial Code. See
also the case next preceding.
PETITION

Messrs. Thos. H. Robinson, Attorney General of Maryland, and Herbert Levy, Assistant Attorney General of
Maryland, for petitioner.
If any reports were required of these federal officers, it
was their duty to make them to their superior. Unless
the words "act done under color of his office or any such
law" in § 33 of the Judicial Code are to be deprived of
ali meaning and effect, they clearly render the provisions
of that statute inapplicable to the ease at bar. If it can

