OCTOBER TERM, 1925.

4

Syllabus.

270 U. S.

"(h) The provisions of this paragraph (3) shall extend
to and embrace cases in which the cause of action has
heretofore accrued as well as cases in which the cause of
action may hereafter accrue.
The Senate and House Reports accompanying the bill
(S. 2704) state that the purpose of the amendment was
to revive claims barred under the existing law as interpreted in Kansas City Ry. Co. v. Wolf, 261 U. S. 133. It is
not to be assumed that Congress intended by that amendment to defeat claims on which suits duly brought were
then pending, or on which, as in the cases at bar, judgment had already been entered below. Compare Herrick
v. Boquillas Land & Cattle Co., 200 U. S. 96.
As we hold that paragraph 3 does not apply to any
cause of action existing at the date of the passage of
Transportation Act, 1920, we have no occasion to consider whether, under any circumstances, it is applicable
to claims against the Government brought in the Court
of Claims pursuant to ยง 145, Judicial Code. See Western
Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States, 59 Ct. Cl. 67, 81.
Affirmed.
H. E. CROOK COMPANY, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 122.

Argued January 12, 1926.-Decided January 25, 1926.

Where a contract for furnishing and installing heating plants in
buildings to be erected for the Government by other contractors
showed on its face that progress under it would be dependent on
the progress of the buildings, and, though strictly limiting the
time for the contractor's performance, made no reference to delays
by the Government save as grounds for time extensions to the
contractor; and the contractor therein agreed to accept the contract price in full satisfaction for all work done under the contract,
reduced by damages deducted for its delays and increased or reduced by the price of any changes ordered by the Government, and
stipulated that the contract price should cover all expenses of any

CROOK CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

4

nature connected with the work to be done; held, that the Government was not bound to make good losses suffered by the contractor in performing the contract, due to delays in completing
the buildings.
59 Ct. Cls. 593, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims denying a claim for damages due to delay in enabling the
claimant to perform its contract.
Messrs. G. M. Brady and Bynum E. Hinton, with
whom Mr. Julian C. Hammack was on the brief, for
appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Joseph Henry Cohen,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims, taken under ยง 242 of the Judicial Code before
that section was repealed by the Act of February 13,
1925, c. 229, ยง 13; 43 Stat. 936, 941. The claim is for
damages due to delay in enabling the plaintiff to perform a contract. The Court of Claims held that the
plaintiff waived any claim that it might have had by
going on with the work without protest and without
taking any steps to protect itself. 59 Ct. Cl. 593. The
Government contends that by the terms of the contract
it was not bound to pay damages for delay.
The contract was that the plaintiff should furnish and
install heating systems 'one in the Foundry Building,
and one in the Machine Shop at the Navy Yard, Norfolk,
Virginia.' It allowed two hundred days from the date
of delivering a copy to the plaintiff for the work to be
completed. A copy was delivered on August 31, 1917,

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

making March 19, 1918, the day for completion. But it
was obvious on the face of the contract that this date
was provisional. The Government reserved the right
to make changes and to interrupt the stipulated continuity of the work. Wells Brothers Co. v. United States,
254 U. S. 83, 86. The contract showed that the specific
buildings referred to were in process of construction by
contractors who might not keep up to time. 'The approximate contract date of completion for the foundry'
is stated to be March 17, 1918, and that for the machine
shop, February 15, 1918. The same dates were fixed for
completing the heating systems, but the heating apparatus had to conform to the structure, of course, so that if
the general contractors were behindhand the heating also
would be delayed; They were behindhand nearly a year.
When such a situation was displayed by the contract it
was not to be expected that the Government should bind
itself to a fixed time for the work to come to an end, and
there is not a word in the instrument by which it did so,
unless an undertaking contrary to what seems to us the
implication is implied.
The Government did fix the time very strictly for the
contractor. It is contemplated that the contractor may
be unknown, and he must satisfy the Government of his
having the capital, experience, and ability to do the work.
Much care is taken therefore to keep him up to the mark.
Liquidated damages are fixed for his delays. But the
only reference to delays on the Government side is in the
agreement that if caused by its acts they will be regarded
as unavoidable, which though probably inserted primarily
for the contractor's benefit as a ground for extension of
time, is not without a bearing on what the contract bound
the Government to do. Delays by the building contractors were unavoidable from the point of view of both
parties to the contract in suit. The plaintiff agreed to
accept in full satisfaction for all work done under the

MANDELBAUM v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

4

contract the contract price, reduced by damages deducted
for his delays and increased or reduced by the price of
changes, as fixed by the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and
Works. Nothing more is allowed for changes, as to which
the Government is master. It would be strange if it were
bound for more in respect of matters presumably beyond
its control. The contract price, it is said in another
clause, shall cover all expenses of every nature connected
with the work to be done. Liability was excluded expressly for utilities that the Government promised to
supply. We are of opinion that the failure to exclude
the present claim was due to the fact that the whole frame
of the contract was understood to shut it out, although in
some cases the Government's lawyers have been more
careful. Wood v. United States, 258 U. S. 120. The
plaintiff's time was extended and it was paid the full contract price. In our opinion it is entitled to nothing more.
Judgment affirmed.
MANDELBAUM v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 139.

Argued January 15, 1926.-Decided January 25, 1926.

Unregistered War -Savings Certificates, issued under the Acts of
September 24, 1917, and September 24, 1918, are not payable if
lost, even though an indemnity bond be tendered. P. 9.
298 Fed. 295, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming the District Court in dismissing the bill
in a suit to recover on 'lost war savings certificates with
stamps attached.
Mr. Howard L. Bump, with whom Mr. James C. Hume
was on the brief, for appellant.

