UNITED STATES v. MICH. CEMENT CO. 521
Counsel for the United States.

512

It is true that this was said arguendo, but it has persuasive weight, and, now that the point is before us for
judgment, we reaffirm it. Compare also Illinois Central

Railroad Co. v. Messina, 240 U. S. 395, 397.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. MICHIGAN PORTLAND
CEMENT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 217.

Argued March 16, 17, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.

1. A shipper may be guilty of the offense of obtaining an unlawful
concession, in violation of § 1 of the Elkins Act, without guilty
knowledge or collusion on the part of the carrier. United States v.
P. Koenig Coal Co., ante, p. 512. P. 523.
2. A preference consisting of an assignment and transportation of
coal cars contrary to a priority order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission violates § 1 of the Elkins Act, no publication of such
an order in the carrier's tariff being necessary. P. 524.
3. The Transportation Act, § 402, par. 15, authorized the Commission to fix priorities with reference to transportation as well as the
furnishing of cars. P. 525.
4. An order of the Commission affecting the furnishing, loading, and
consignment of cars, construed and held applicable to transportation as well as car service. Id.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining

a demurrer to an indictment. alleging that the shipper obtained priority in transportation of coal in violation of
the Elkins Act.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. William H.' Bonneville, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, were on the brief, for the United. States.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion cf the Court.

270 U. S.

Mr. Hal H. Smith, with whom Mr. Thomas B. Moore
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
This Court in passing upon the Elkins Act will not
adopt a strained and artificial construction, based chiefly
upon a consideration of the mischief which the legislature sought to remedy. United States v. Harris, 177
U. S. 305.
The Act does not make criminal the violation of an
order of the Commission, only the violation of a published tariff. Except as the thing is only offered or solicited, the Act forbids only collusive dealings between
carrier and shipper as to tariff rates, rules, practices and
regulations.
The word "device" in § 1 does not qualify the second
"whereby" clause, but relates only to published raies.
Under the express language of the Act, where granting
or giving, accepting or receiving, is charged, there must
be a co-transgressor.
The decisions of this Court do not support the contention that the taking of an advantage by a shipper,
there being no collusion on the part of the carrier, is a
crime punishable by the Elkins Act.
The Commission's service order No. 23, paragraph 7,
prescribed "classes of purposes" and "order of classes"
only with respect to car service, not transportation. Defendant in error was indicted for securing preferential
treatment in transportation, when service order No. 23
did not deny it transportation. The Commission had no
power to fix rules and regulations giving preferences and
priorities in car service until the passage of the Emergency
Fuel Act of September 22, 1922, c. 413, 42 Stat. 1025.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFr delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case on its facts is similar to that of the United
States v. The P. Koenig Coal Company, just decided,

UNITED STATES v. MICH. CEMENT CO. 523
521

Opinion of the Court.

ante, p. 512. The indictment against the Cement Company embraces fifteen counts, and each count shows that
the Cement Company, with the assistance of the Bewley
Darst Coal Company, while Service Order No. 23 of the
Interstate Commerce Commission was in force, obtained
a billing and consignment of cars of coal by the Louisville
& Nashville Railroad Company from a mine in Kentucky
to the Municipal Light and Power Company at Four Mile
Lake in Michigan, where the coal was delivered in accordance with direction and was appropriated by the
Cement Company for its use; that the billing and the
preference were granted by the carrier company on the
assumption that the coal was to be delivered and used
by a public utility company which was in class No. 2
under Order No. 23, instead of class No. 5 in which coal
for making cement was embraced. The District Court
sustained the demurrer to this indictment on the same
ground as in the Koenig Case,--that the Elkins Act requires the collusion of the carrier with the shipper and
the carrier's conscious violation of law in the concession
granted, and that, when this is negatived in the indictment, the indictment must fail. That ground we have
held to be without weight in the Koenig Case. It was the
only one pressed on us.
In this case the counsel f~r the defendant advances in
his brief and argument two other grounds raised by the
demurrer, on which he contends the indictment should
have been held bad. One of them is that § 1 of the
Elkins Act, under which the indictment is found, mlist
be limited to a concession or discrimination which violates a tariff published and filed by a carrier; that, as a
rebate without such tariff is not unlawful within that
section, so a concession or discrimination is not. The contention is that the published tariff should have indicated
that the order of distribution of cars should be as Order
23 requires.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

The Elkins Act does not require such a tariff as to any
other advantage or discrimination than a rebate. It declares to be an offense any device whereby transportation
shall be given at any less rate than named in the published
tariff "or whereby any other advantage is given or discrimination is practiced." Where the offense consists in
a rebate, as that term is usually understood, to-wit, transportation at a, less rate in dollars and cents than the
published rate which the shipping public are charged, a
published tariff is of course necessary to constitute the
standard, departure from which is the crime. Where
there is no pecuniary reduction of the rates as published,
and the tariff is complied with but the law against favoritism and discrimination is infringed by the making of a
concession or the granting of an advantage not specifically measured in dollars and cents, reference to a
published tariff is unnecessary. There is nothing in th3
statute that indicates the necessity of a published tariff
which should expressly recite the fact that no unfair or
unequal concession or advantage in the distribution of
coal cars to shippers, Qr in the priority of their shipment,
should be afforded. The fact that the advantage or discrimination is unlawful is plain from the description of its
character, as shown in this indictment, without reference
to the rates fixed in the tari.
See Lambert Run Coal
Co. v. B. & 0. R. R., 258 U. S. 377, 378. Such a published tariff seems not to have been present in C. C. C.
& St. L. Ry. Co. v. Hirsch, 204 Fed. 849, and in Central
of Georgia Ry. v. Blount, 238 Fed. 292, in which leases
of property by carriers to shippers at inadequate rentals
were held to be unlawful concessions; nor in Vandalia
failway v. United States, 226 Fed. 713, where a loan by
6carrier to shipping interests at less than market rate,
was held to be an unlawful concession; nor in Northern
CfntraI Railway v. United States, 241 Fed. 25, where the
waiving of royalties for the use of coal lands leased to

UNITED STATES v. MICH. CEMENT CO. 525
521

Opinion of the Court.

shipping interests was held to be an unlawful concession;
nor in Dye v. ,UnitedStates, 262 Fed. 6, in which the agent
of a railway company who secured an excessive number
of cars for one of a great number of mines between which,
by order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, in an
emergency, cars were to be distributed according to a rule,
was convicted under the Elkins Act, and the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the conviction.
Service Order No. 23 herein was issued under the
Transportation Act and had the force of law. Avent v.
United States, 266 U. S. 127, 131; United States v.
Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506. In the absence of a specific requirement for its publication in a tariff, either in the Act
authorizing the service order, or in the Elkins Act, we can
find no reason for making it essential in the enforcement
of the statute, and no case is cited to suggest one.
The other ground urged by counsel for the defendant
is, as we understand it, that paragraph 15 of § 402 of the
Transportation Act did not authorize and delegate to the
Interstate Commerce Commission the fixing of preference and priorities in transportation; that paragraph 7
of the Commission's order prescribed classes of purposes
and order of classes only with respect to car service, and
made no rule applicable to the transportation of coal for
different classes of purposes and different order of classes;
that car service does not include transportation; and that
the defendant here is indicted for securing a concession
in transportation by which he obtained an improper class
under a classification which the Commission therefore
had no authority to make and which it did not in fact
require. We think the argument does not give proper
effect to paragraph 15 and the words and significance of
the service order. By paragraph 15 the Commission is
authorized, 1st, to suspend the operation of any or all
rules, regulations or practices then established with re.spect to car service for such time as may be determined

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

by the Commission; 2nd, to make such just and reasonable directions with respect to car service, without regard
to the ownership as between the carriers of cars, during
such emergency as in its opinion will best promote the
service in the interest of the public and the commerce of
the people; and, 3rd, to give directions for preference or
priority in transportation, embargoes, or movement of
traffic under permit, and for such periods as it may determine, and to modify, change, suspend or annul them.
The service order, after reciting the emergency, directs
each common carrier east of the Mississippi River, to the
extent to which it is unable promptly to transport all
freight traffic, to give preference and priority to coal; to
give preference and priority to the movemeit, exchange
and return of empty coal cars; to furnish coal mines with
certain classes of cars; to require that non-coal-loading
carriers deliver empty coal cars to the maximum ability
of each, to enable the connecting coal-loading companies
to receive and use the coal cars so delivered for the prefer-:
ential purposes get forth in the order; to discontinue the
use of coal cars for the transportation of commodities
other than coal during the order; to place an embargo on
the receipt by any consignee of coal in suitable cars who
shall fail or refuse to unload the coal seasonably; and,
finally, in the supply of cars to mines, to place, furnish
and assign coal mines with cars suitable for the loading
and transportation of coal for certain classes of consignees,
and, in a certain order, forbidding reconsignment or diversion. It seems to us clear that the order of the Commission affects the furnishing of cars, their loading, their
consignment, and thus necessarily their movement in
transportation, and corresponds fully with the powers conferred by § 15; and that § 15 and Service Order No. 23
both apply not only to priority of car service but also to
that of transportation. Certainly, one who secures reconsignwent and diversion from a lower to a: higher class of
consignees for delivery violates the service order in terms.

UNITED STATES v. NAT. EXCH. BANK. 527
521

Syllabus.

In urging this objection to the indictment, reliance is
had by defendant upon the opinion of this Court in the
case of Peoria & Pekin Union Ry. Co. v. United States,
263 U. S. 528. There the Interstate Commerce Commission sought under § 15 to compel a terminal carrier to
switch, by its own engines and over its own tracks, freight
cars tendered by or for another connecting carrier. It
was held that the exercise of the emergency power of the
Commission in transferring car equipment from one carrier to the use of another under paragraph 15 was strictly
to be construed, and that the provision as to car service
did not authorize the Commission, to impose upon the
terminal carrier, without a hearing, the affirmative duty
not only of turning over its cars and equipment to another
carrier, as contemplated in paragraph 15, but also that of
itself doing the work of the transportation of and for
another carrier. It was in this connection that'this Court
used ' the expression that car service connotes the use to
which vehicles of transportation are put, but not the
transportation service rendered by means of them. The
opinion expressly affirms the authority of the Commission under paragraph 15 to give regulatory directions for
preference or priority in transportation. The language of
this Court in the Peoria Case referred to is of no aid to
the defendant here.
The judgment is
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK
OF BALTIMORE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 222. Argued March 16, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. A drawee of a check or draft who is also the drawer is held, in
paying it, to a knowledge of the true amount, and if, by mistake,

