MELLON v. WEISS. •
560

Statement of the Case.

of assessment and the direction that the trustee sue to
recover were appropriate administrative proceedings in
bankruptcy. See In re Miller ElectricalMaintenance Co.,
111 Fed. 515. But it wasfor the court of Pennsylvania
to say whether they were indispensable to the enforcement of the stockholder's liability.
Scovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143, upon which the trustee
relied, is not inconsistent with the conclusion stated.
That was a suit brought in the federal court for Massachusetts to enforce the liability of a stockholder in a
Kansas corporation. The courts of Kansas had not
settled when the cause of action created by its law arose.
The trial court and this Court were, therefore, obliged
to decide that question of state law. See Burgess v.
Seligman, 107 U. S.20, 33.
Affirmed.

MELLON, AGENT, ETC. v. WEISS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
CERTIORARI TO THE MUNICIPAL

COGRT OF THE CITY OF

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 223. Argued March 19, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. Substitution of the federal Agent as defendant in a suit erroneously
brought against a railroad company on a cause of action for nondelivery of goods that arose during federal control, is in effect
the commencement of a new and independent proceeding. Davis
v. Cohen Co., 268 U. S. 638. P. 567.
2. Therefore the suit will be barred by a time limit in the bill of
lading if the substitution be not made within that limit, dating
from the arising of the cause of action. Id.
250 Mass. 12, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment, entered upon direction of
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, adjudging damages to the plaintiff Weiss, as administrator, in
a suit brought originally against the New York, New

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Haven & Hartford Railroad Company for non-delivery
of a.bale of rags. Davis, Director General of Railroads
and Agent under the Transportation Act, was substituted as defendant below, and in this court was succeeded
by the petitioner Mellon.
Mr. Arthur TV. Blackman for petitioner.
Mr. John W. Keith, with whom Mr. Benjamin
Rabalsky was on brief, for respondent.
Mr. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In November, 1918, while the New York, New Haven
& Hartford Railroad was under federal control, a bale of
rags was received for shipment to Louis Cutler, the owner.
The reasonable time for delivery expired in December,
1918. The rags were never delivered. Cutler assigned
his claim for damages to Nominsky. In May, 1919, the
latter commenced this action thereon in a state court of
Massachusetts.

Because he named the Railroad Com-

pany as sole defendant, the action was dismissed by the
trial court. In June, 1921, that judgment was affirmed by
the Supreme Judicial Court. Nominsky v. New York,
New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co., 239 Mass. 254. See
Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554. In
January, 1922, the writ and declaration were, by leave of
the trial court, amended under § 206(a), Transportation
Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 461, by substituting as
defendant Davis, Agent and Director General. The summons was immediately served upon him. Later, Nominsky died. Weiss, his administrator, ivas substituted as
plaintiff.
Davis, appearing specially to object to the jurisdiction
of the court over him, asked that the suit be dismissed.
Without waiving that objection, he asked for judgment
upon.toe following among other grounds. The shipment

MELLON v. WEISS.
565

Opinion of the Court.

had been made on an order bill of lading which provided
that: "Suits for loss, damage, or delay shall be instituted
only within two years and one day after delivery of the
property, or, in case of failure to make delivery, then
within two years and one day after a reasonable time for
delivery has elapsed." Davis claimed that, although the
substitution of him as defendant was made within two
years from the termination of federal control, the action
was barred by the bill of lading, because the substitution
was not made until after two years and one day from the
lapse of the reasonable time for delivery. The objection
was overruled by the trial court; and it entered judgment
for the plaintiff. The Appellate Division ordered judgment for the defendant. The Supreme Judicial Court
reversed that order and directed the trial court to enter
judgment for the plaintiff. Weiss v. Director General of
Railroads, 250 Mass. 12. This Court granted a writ of
certiorari, 267 U. S. 588, on Jan'uary 26, 1925.
Since then, Davis v. L. L. Cohen & Co., Inc., 268 U. S.
638, 640, 642, has settled that a suit against a railroad
company is not a suit against the Director General; that
§ 206(d) of Transportation Act, 1920, authorized substitution of the designated Agent as defendant only in a
suit which had been brought during federal control against
the Director General; and that in a suit against a railroad
company pending at the termination of federal control
an amendment of the writ and declaration by substituting
as defendant the designated Agent is to be deemed the
commencement of a new and independent proceeding to
enforce the liability of the Government. Applying that
rule, there was in the case at bar no suit to enforce the
Government's liability pending at the termination of federal control. The order substituting the Agent was not
made until.more than two years and a day after the cause
of action arose; aid as such an order of substitution is
held to be the commencement of a new and independent

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Petitioners.

270 U. S.

proceeding, it follows that the suit is barred by the terms
of the bill of lading.
Other objections made by the defendant to the action
of the state court need not be considered.
Reversed.
TUTUN v. UNITED STATES.
NEUBERGER v. UNITED STATES.
ON

CERTIFICATE FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURTS OF

APPEALS

FOR THE FIRST AND SECOND CIRCUITS.

Nos. 762, 824. Argued March 3, 1926.-Decided April 12, 1926.
1. An order of the District Court granting or denying a petition
for naturalization is a final decision within the meaning of Jud.
Code § 128. P. 575.
2. Whenever the law provides a remedy enforceable in the federal
courts according to the regular course of legal procedure, and
that remedy is pursued, there arises a " case" within the meaning
of the Constitution, Art. III, § 2, whether the subject of the
litigation be property or status. P. 576.
3. A petition for naturalization is a " case" within the meaning ot
Jud. Code § 128, and an order of the District Court denying the
petition is reviewable by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Pp.

577, 578.
RESPONSE to questions certified by Circuit Courts of
Appeals in naturalization proceedings.
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Messrs. William H.
Lewis, Matthew M. Levy, and Eugene Untermyer were
on the brief, for petitioners.
A final decision of a United States district court rendered in a naturalization proceeding is appealable because such a proceeding is a "case " within the meaning
of the Judicial Code. Such a proceeding must be regarded as a "case" in the constitutional and statutory
sense of the term; otherwise our courts, from the lowest
to the highest, in passing upon hundreds of thousands of

