INTEROCEAN OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
59

65

Counsel for Parties.

feature of the general maritime law. The Act prescribes
the only remedy; its exclusive features abrogate the right
to resort to the admiralty court which otherwise would
exist.
We had occasion to consider matters which were not of
mere local concern because of their special relation to
commerce and navigation, and held them beyond the regulatory power of the State, in Great Lakes Dredge & Dock
Co. v. Kierejewski, 261 U. S. 479; Washington v. Dawson
& Co., 264 U. S. 219; Gonsalves v. Morse Dry Dock Co.,
266 U. S. 171; and Robins Dry Dock Co. v. Dahl, 266
U. S. 449, 457.
The conclusion reached by the court below is correct
and its judgment must be
Affirmed.
THE INTEROCEAN OIL COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 115.

Argued January 12, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

Where a company, which supplied oil to the Government during the
war, moved its storage tanks from the place where they were
established to a distant locality, at the demand of an army officer,
relying on his prom'se that all expenses and losses to be thereby
sustained would be paid by the Government and believing that he
was acting within the scope of his authority, but knowing his action
was subject to written confirmation by a superior, which was never
given, held, that there was no express contract of the Government
to pay the expenses, and damages to the company's business, resulting from the removal; and that no contract could be implied.
59 Ct. Cls. 980, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dis-

missing the petition on demurrer.
Mr. CharlesE. Kern, with whom Mr. John PaulEarnest
was on the brief, for appellant.
100569°-26--5

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Solicitor General Mitchell, Mr. Alfred A. Wheat,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Mr. Randolph S. Collins, Attorney in the Department of Justice,
for the United States, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims, entered May 26, 1924, sustaining a demurrer filed
by the United States, and dismissing the petition upon
the ground that it does not state a cause of action. The
facts stated in the petition are as follows:
The appellant, the Interocean Oil Company, was, in
1918 and before, engaged in refining, transporting and
dealing in petroleum and petroleum products, chiefly fuel
oil, .at Carteret, New Jersey, where it owned and operated
a refinery and storage tanks. It also had a refinery at
Baltimore, Maryland. During the War, the corporation
was represented in Baltimore by Harold F. Brown in the
sale of oil to, the Shipping Board and the United States
Navy. Brown made arrangements with Major Ross of
the Quartermaster's Department of the United States
Army, acting under the direction of Colonel Kimball, in
charge, for the purchase by that department of fuel oil
for army transports. After experiments made under the
direction of Major Ross, a satisfactory grade of fuel oil
was obtained by mixing the heavy gravity oil of this oil
company with the light gravity oil of the Standard Oil
Company. Major Ross then directed Brown to be prepared to furnish the full quantity of fuel oil required by
the Quartermaster's Department. Ross complained that
there was hot enough storage for fuel oil at Baltimore.
Brown advised him that the steel plates with which to
erect the tanks could not be obtained on account of the
War. Ross, finding that the company owned storage
facilities at Carteret, demanded that they be removed to

INTEROCEAN OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
65

67

Opinion of the Court.

Baltimore. In a conversation, in April, 1918, Ross advised the officers of the company that the Quartermaster's
Department was short of fuel oil and that there must be
additional tankage, and that unless the tankage at Carteret was removed to Baltimore, the Department would
seize it and remove it itself as an exigency of war; but
that if the claimant was willirg itself to transfer the
tanks, it would be satisfactory to the Department, and
that all expense incurred and all losses sustained would
be paid by the Government. The company's officers
advised Ross that the removal of the tanks would mean
the destruction of its business at New York, but Ross said
it would be compensated for all its loss and damage and
that failure to remove the tanks would result in the Department itself doing the work. The officers of the company were convinced that Ross was acting within the
scope of his authority, because theretofore when he had
given verbal orders to Brown for fuel oil, they had always been followed in due time by confirmatory written
orders, and thereafter prompt payment had been made
for the oil purchased. Indeed, so accustomed was Brown
to this that he had complied without question with every
order, depending upon the future confirmation of it. In
respect of the movement of the tanks, Ross said that he
was authorized to act for the War Department, and that
written official confirmation thereof would be forthcoming
from that Department. When Ross's attention was called
to the fact that these confirmatory orders had not come,
he said it was an oversight and promised they would be
forthcoming at once from Colonel Kimball. Later he said
he had made out the orders and delivered them to Colonel
Kimball, who would sign them as evidence that proper
official authority was being exercised. They were never
signed or delivered, however, and Colonel Kimball left the
service and went abroad because of ill health, and later
died. The removal of the tanks was begun by the com-

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

pany with all disp9tch, and it was far advanced when the
Armistice was signed November 11, 1918. This made
their use unnecessary for the purpose of the War Department. They were not re-erected and in condition for use
at Baltimore until February, 1919.
The petition averred that the removal of the tanks from
Carteret resulted in the claimant's losing its right to reerect them at Carteret because of action of the legislature
of New Jersey and the local authorities. The items of
damage included the actual expense incurred in taking
down the plant at Carteret and its freight to Baltimore,
and its re-erection there, which amounted to about
$54,000. The claim made also included an item for the
depreciation in the plant at Carteret of $220,000 and one
for the loss of franchise to conduct business at Carteret
and the profit on the probable sales of oil at Carteret for
five years from April, 1918, to October, 1923, which was
put at $2,300,000.
It is contended on behalf of the claimant that the Government got the benefit of the contract made between Ross
and it, that it had the right to rely on Ross's authority, and
that performance of the contract saved the necessity of a
written agreement as required by Rev. Stats. § 3744.
The petition set forth no facts upon which the United
States can be said to have made any contract, whether
oral or written, with the claimant company. There is no
averment that Major Ross was authorized to make the
contract upon which suit is brought. The averments are
only that Ross told the officers of the company that he had
the authority to make the contract, and that there would
be a written confirmation by his chief, Colonel Kimball.
It is expressly admitted that no such written confirmation by Colonel Kimball was ever signed or delivered to
the company. The necessary effect of the lengthy averments of the petition is that Ross did not have authority to make a contract for the Government such as that

RHODE ISLAND TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
65

69

Syllabus.

sued on, but that the authority was vested in Colonel
Kimball, and that until Colonel Kimball signed the con-

tract, it did not bind the Government. All the statements
of the petition united together are no more than to say
that the company relied on the promise of Major Ross
that Colonel Kimball would confirm the contract which
Ross proposed to make and said that he had authority
subject to Kimball's confirmation to make. But Kimball
never confirmed it.
Nor is there any implied contract binding upon the
Government. The Oil Company was dealing with its own
property in moving it from Carteret to Baltimore, and
when the tanks were removed to Baltimore, they still
belonged to the company for use by it not only in storing
oil for the Government but for anyone else. There
was no enrichment of the Government to its knowledge,
no benefit in the form of property given to it or of service
rendered to it from which the contract by it to pay could
be implied. The Court of Claims was right in sustaining
the demurrer, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

RHODE ISLAND HOSPITAL TRUST COMPANY,
EXECUTOR OF GEORGE BRIGGS, DECEASED, v.
RUFUS A. DOUGHTON, COMMISSIONER OF
REVENUE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 106.

Argued January 11, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1. Under the principle that the subject to be taxed must be within
the jurisdiction of the State, applicable to a transfer tax as well
as to a property tax, a State may not tax the devolution of property from a non-resident to a non-resident, unless it has jurisdiction of the property. P. 80.
2. Inasmuch as the property of a corporation is not owned by the
shareholder, presence of such property in. a State does not give
that State jurisdiction over his shares for tax purposes. P. 81.

