MANDELBAUM v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

4

contract the contract price, reduced by damages deducted
for his delays and increased or reduced by the price of
changes, as fixed by the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and
Works. Nothing more is allowed for changes, as to which
the Government is master. It would be strange if it were
bound for more in respect of matters presumably beyond
its control. The contract price, it is said in another
clause, shall cover all expenses of every nature connected
with the work to be done. Liability was excluded expressly for utilities that the Government promised to
supply. We are of opinion that the failure to exclude
the present claim was due to the fact that the whole frame
of the contract was understood to shut it out, although in
some cases the Government's lawyers have been more
careful. Wood v. United States, 258 U. S. 120. The
plaintiff's time was extended and it was paid the full contract price. In our opinion it is entitled to nothing more.
Judgment affirmed.
MANDELBAUM v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 139.

Argued January 15, 1926.-Decided January 25, 1926.

Unregistered War -Savings Certificates, issued under the Acts of
September 24, 1917, and September 24, 1918, are not payable if
lost, even though an indemnity bond be tendered. P. 9.
298 Fed. 295, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals affirming the District Court in dismissing the bill
in a suit to recover on 'lost war savings certificates with
stamps attached.
Mr. Howard L. Bump, with whom Mr. James C. Hume
was on the brief, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Assistant Attorney General L.?tts, with whom Solicitor
General Mitchell and Mr. Harvey B. Cox, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought in the District Court under its
jurisdiction concurrent with the Court of Claims (Judicial
Code, ยง 24, Twentieth; Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231; 36
Stat. 1087,) to recover on War Saving Certificates with
stamps attached, issued under the Acts of September 24,
1917, c. 56, ยง 6; 40 Stat. 288, 291; and of September 24,
1918, c. 176, ยง 2, 40 Stat. 965, 966. The certificates fell
due on January 1, 1923, but were stolen in the preceding
year. They bore the name of the plaintiff or of different
members of his family who had transferred their claim to
him, but they were not registered. The plaintiff offers to
give a sufficient bond of indemnity. The bill was dlsmissed by the District Court and the decree was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals on the ground that the
right to recover was excluded by the certificates on their
face. 298 Fed. Rep. 295.
The certificates were sheets with blanks for the affixing of stamps issued by the Government for the purpose, face value five dollars each. They were not valid
without one stamp affixed, and there were blanks for
twenty in all, which could be added from time to time
if and when desired. The certificate declared that, subject to the conditions thereon, the owner named on the
back would be entitled on January 1, 1923, to receive
the amount indicated by the stamps. Among the conditions are provisions for registration and notice that unless
registered the United States will not be liable for payment to one not the owner; that upon payment the certificate must be surrendered and a receipt signed by the

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 1)
7

Syllabus.

owner; and that upon satisfactory evidence of the loss of
a registered certificate the owner shall be entitled to payment of the registered amount. We agree with the Circuit
Court of Appeals that these conditions very plainly imported what on January 21, 1918, was embodied by the
Secretary of the Treasury in an authorized regulation, that
unregistered certificates would not be paid if lost. There
was good reason for the condition. The stamps are undistinguishable one from another. Therefore they could
be detached and put upon another certificate, and it
would be impossible for the Government to know whether
the stolen stamps that gave the value to the certificate
had been paid or not. The offer of indemnity was illusory,
and the case is not like that of a lost bond. The condition
limited the obligation of the Government to pay and
until it is complied with the plaintiff must put up with
his loss.
Decree affirmed.
MARYLAND v. SOPER, JUDGE.

(No. 1)

PETITION FOR A WRIT OF. MANDAMUS.

No. 23, Original.

Argued December 7, 1925.-Decided February 1,
1926.

1. The remedy of mandamus is grantable by this Court, in its sound
discretion, on petition oi a State to determine the legality of a
removal of a criminal case from a state to a federal court, under
Jud. Code ยง 33. P. 28.
2. The propriety of the writ in such cases results from the exceptional character of the proceeding sought to be reviewed and the
absence of any other provision for reviewing it; it does not depend
on lack of jurisdiction or abuse of discretion in the District Court.
Id.
3. Section 33 of the Judicial Code, which authorizes removal to the
District Court of any criminal prosecution commenced in any
court of a State against "any officer appointed under or acting
under or by authority of any revenue law of the United States,

