TOWAR MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
367

Counsel for Parties.

not show on its face whether all taxes assessed by cities,
towns, and villages within the parish are included in the
report, and there is nothing in the record which will
enable us to ascertain that fact. The appellant has,

therefore, failed to show that the tax is discriminatory
either in principle or in its practical operation- and has
laid no foundation for assailing its constitutionality.
The judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.

TOWAR COTTON MILLS, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 196. Argued January 29, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.
1. Where there are no findings of the Uourt of Claims that claimant
suffered any loss or damage under, or by reason of the cancelation
of, his contract with the War Department, it is unnecessary to
consider whether an awaid, made by the Secretary of War and
accepted by the claimant, was binding on the latter. P. 377.
2. Where claimant entered into two contracts, one to supply goods
to the Government and the other, later, by which the Government
advanced money to carry out the first and took his note, upun
which were to be credited deductions from payments falling due
under the first, an award to the claimant on the first, (after its
cancelation,) did not bar the Government's counterclaim on the
note; and the award was properly credited as of its date, rather
than the date when the earlier contract was canceled. P. 377.
59 Ct. Cls. 841, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing claimant's petition and awarding recovery to the
United States on a counterclaim.

Mr. Raymond M. Hudson for appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United

States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

270 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal was taken from a judgment of the Court of
Claims (Jud. Code, § 142, before its repeal by Act of February 13, 1925,) dismissing appellant's petition and adjudging that the United States was entitled to recover on
a counterclaim set up in its answer in that court.
The appellant entered into a contract with the Government, dated June 24, 1918, to supply it with a quantity
of cloth at a specified price. It was provided by the
contract that the Government might, in the event of the
termination of the war, cancel th , contract with respect
to cloth not delivered. The contract contained a clause
for ascertaining the balance due and payable to the appellant in case of cancellation. By a second contract, of July
6, 1918, the Government undertook to advance money to
appellant for the purchase of machinery, equipment and
raw material required for the performance of its original
contract. Appellant gave its demand note for the principal sum advanced, with interest at 6%, and it was provided by the contract that specified deductions from payments, as they became due from the Government for the
cloth delivered, should be credited on the note.
On November 15, 1918, the Government cancelled the
original contract after 19.02% of the deliveries stipulated
for had been made. Appellant presented a claim to the
War Department for the amount due under this contract,
and, after proceedings had before the Purchase Claims
Board and an appeal to the Board of Contract Adjustment, an award was made to appellant, by authority of
the Secretary of War, in the sum of $14,054.59, which
was stated by its terms to be "in full adjustment, payment and discharge of said agreement " of June 24, 1918.
On June 3, 1920, appellant accepted the award by a
formal statement to that effect written at the end of it
and signed by the appellant, by its treasurer.

TOWAR MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
375

Opinion of the Court.

The cause of action stated by appellant is upon its first
contract, of June 24, 1918, and, as the Court of Claims
found, all of the items set up by appellant in this
suit were embodied in its claim to the War Department
on which the award was made. The Government pleaded,
by way of counterclaim, the balance due upon the appellant's promissory note, less the amount of the award; and
judgment was given against the appellant for this amount,
with accrued interest.
Appellant, notwithstanding such cases as United States
v. Adams, 7 Wall. 463; Savage, Executrix, v. United
States, 92 U. S. 382, 388; United States v. Child & Co.,
12 Wall. 232, 243; United States v. Justice, 14 Wall. 535;
Mason v. United States, 17 Wall. 67, seeks to avoid the
effect of the accepted award by setting up that the Secretary of War was without authority to make it and, upon
various technical grounds, that appellant's acceptance
was not binding.
It is unnecessary for us to consider these contentions;
for there are no findings by the Court of Claims that
appellant suffered any loss or damage by reason of the
cancellation of the contract, and in fact, no findings which
would support a judgment in its favor on any theory.
The appellant also objects that, if the award is valid,
it is a bar to the Government's counterclaim. But an
examination of the award, which is set out in detail in-the
findings, shows that the award was concerned only with
the first contract, of June 24, 1918, and that the items and
computations which entered into it related only to that
contract. The amount due from the Government upon
appellant's note and second contract was unaffected by it.
There is no merit in the objection that the amount of
the award should have been credited on appellant's note
as of the date of the cancellation of the first contract, thus
reducing the amount of interest payable on the note. If
the award was valid, it was properly credited as of its

OCTOBER TERM, 19.25.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

date. If it was invalid, appellant, as already pointed
out, has laid no foundation for any offset to the amount
due on the note.
Judgment affirmed.

RISTY

ET AL.,

COUNTY COMMISSIONERS,

ET AL. V.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
THE SAME v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
RAILWAY COMPANY.
THE SAME v. CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS
& OMAHA RAILWAY COMPANY.
THE SAME v. NORTHERN STATES POWER
COMPANY.
THE SAME v. CITY OF SIOUX FALLS.
THE SAME v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

'Nos. 95-100.

Argued January 7, 8, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926.

1.When the District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals agree upon
all material facts, this Court will consider them only so far as
needful to pass on questions of law. P. 381.
2. The statutes of South Dakota (Rev. Code 1919, §§ 8458 et seq.,
§§ 8467, 8470,) contain no provision by which the cost of reconstructing or maintaining existing drainage works may be assessed
on lands which were not embraced within or assessed in connection
with the project as originally established. P. 383.
3. It is the duty of the federal courts, in suits brought in or removed
to the District Courts, to decide for themselves all relevant questions of state law, including the meaning of the state statutes where
they have not been clearly and decisively passed upon by the state
court. P. 387.

