280

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Statement of the Case.

270 U. S.

MARION & RYE VALLEY RAILWAY COMPANY v.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 315. Argued January 6, 1926.-Decided March 1, 1926..

1. Where the taking (if any) of a railroad, under the Federal Control
Act, was purely technical, resulting from the generality of the
President's proclamation, etc., and the Director General did not
in fact take over its possession or control or deal with it specifically
in any way, so that it continued to be operated by the owner company as theretofore, without interference, the company could not
maintain an action for "just compensation" under § 3 of the Act,
since nothing of value was taken from it, it was subjected to no,
pecuniary loss by the Government, and nominal damages are not
recoverable in the Court of Claims. P. 282.
2. The Federal Control Act, in authorizing the President to agree
with any carrier of whose railroad he took possession and control
that it should "receive as just compensation an annual sum . . .
for each year, and pro rata for any fractional year of such Federal
control, not exceeding a sum equivalent as nearly as may be to its
average annual railway operating income for the three years ending
June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and seventeen" (§ 1), did not
establish a rule of compensation applicable when there was no
agreement, but relegated the carrier in that case to proceedings
for the ascertainment of just compensation (§ 3), in which the
burden was on the carrier of proving the value of the use taken
from it, or the damage suffered by it, under rules ordinarily
applicable to takings by eminent domain. P. 283.
3. Although § 3 of the Federal Control Act declares that, in such
proceedings, the report of a board of referees appointed by the
Interstate Commerce Commission shall be prima facie evidence of
the amount of just compensation and the facts stated therein, a
report which by its face, and by the findings of the Court of
Claims, is shown to have been based upon mere assumptions, without evidence of loss or damage, has no evidential value. P. 285.
60 Ct. Cls. 230, affirmed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for compensation for the alleged taking of
the petitioner's short line railway.
APPEAL

MARION, &c., RY. v. UNITED STATES.
280

281

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Ben B. Cain and Milton C. Elliott, for
appellant.
Mr. A. A. McLaughlin, Solicitor of the United States
Railroad Administration, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell and Mr. Sidney F. Andrews were on the brief,
for the United States.
Messrs. Victor A. Remy and Milton C. Elliott filed
briefs as amici curiae, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Marion & Rye Valley Railway Company, a shortline railroad, brought this suit in the Court of Claims to
recover $14,425.94 as compensation for the alleged taking
possession and use by the United States of its railroad
during the period beginning December 28, 1917 and ending June 29, 1918. That sum is the amount which, on
September 30, 1922, a board of referees appointed by the
Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to § 3 of the
Federal Control Act, March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451,
454, found to be just. The application for the appointment of the board was made after the Director ,General
had refused to pay the company any compensation.1 The
suit was begun after he had refused to accept the report as
a basis for settlement. The case was heard upon a stipulation of the facts which the court adopted as its findings.
The Government denied liability. It contended that
there was not a legal taking, because the President did
1 The board entered upon the hearing and made its report despite

objection by the Director General that it was without jurisdiction,
because the proceeding was commenced after Transportation Act,
1920, February 28, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 460, had provided by § 204

another and exclusive remedy for carriers which, like the plaintiff,
had operated their own railroads throughout the period for which
compensation was claimed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

not take actual possession of the railroad, did not operate
it, and did not otherwise exercise control. It contended,
also, that, even if there was a technical taking of possession, the plaintiff was not entitled to any compensation,
because it suffered no pecuniary loss. Both contentions
were sustained by the court; and judgment was entered
for the defendant on January 26, 1925, 60 Ct. Cls. 230.
The appeal was duly taken under § 242 of the Judicial
Code. We have no occasion to determine whether in law
the President took possession and assumed control of the
Marion & Rye Valley Railway. For even if there was
technically a taking, the judgmunt for defendant was
right. Nothing was recoverable as just compensation,
because nothing of value was taken from the company;
and it was not subjected by the Government to pecur ;ary
loss. Nominal damages are not recoverable in the Court
of Claims. Grant v. United States, 7 Wall. 331, 338.
Power to take possession and assume control of any
railroad, on account of the war emergency, had been conferred upon the President by Act of August 29, 1916, c.
418, 39 Stat. 619, 645. See Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135, 142-147; Missouri Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554, 556-7; St. Louis, Kennett & Southeastern R. R. Co. v. United States, 267 U. S.
346. The President issued, on December 26, 1917, a Proclamation which recited that "[I] do hereby .
take possession and assume control at 12 o'clock noon on
the twenty-eighth day of December, 1917, of each and
every system of transportation . . . consisting of
"; and a Director General was ap. .
railroads,
Some general notices or orders
1733.
pointed. 40 Stat.
issued by the Director General were received by the Marion & Rye Railway Company shortly after the issue of
the Proclamation; but no order dealing specifically with
that railroad was given by him. He did not at any time
take over the actual possession or operation of the rail-

MARION, &c., RY. v. UNITED STATES.
280

283

Opinion of the Court.

road; did not at any time give any specific direction as to
its management or operation; and did not at any time
interfere in any way with its conduct or activities. The
company retained possession and continued in the operation of its railroad throughout the period in question.
The railroad was operated during the period exactly as it
had been before, without change in the manner, method
or purpose of operation. The railroad did not serve any
military camp; nor did it transport troops or munitions.
The character of the traffic remained the same. Nothing
appears to have been done by the Director General which
could have affected the volume or profitableness of the
traffic or have increased the requirements for maintenance or depreciation; and apparently it retained its
earnings; expended the same as it saw fit; and, without
accounting to the Government, devoted the net operating income to the company's use.
The company urges that the claim sought to be enforced
rests upon a statutory right to the just compensation
specifically defined in § 1 of the Federal Control Act; that
the compensation there prescribed is for the rental value
at the rate of the average annual railway operating income for the three years ended June 30, 1917; that by
the taking, although technical, the Government agreed to
pay the compensation defined in the statute; that the
function of the board of referees, acting under the statute,
was to find that sum "as nearly as may be," and that by
its report it had done so. It is true that in this case the
claim is founded upon " a law of Congress"; not upon a
"contract, express or implied." Judicial Code, § 145,
Par. First. Recovery can not be sought upon the contract implied in fact which, in view of the constitutional
obligation justly to compensate for property taken by
eminent domain, ordinarily arises on a taking of private
property by the Government pursuant. to law, where no
provision is made by statute for ascertaining the amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

of compensation or for enforcing payment. Compare
United States v. Great FallsManufacturing Co., 112 U. S.
645; 124 U. S. 581; Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S.
121, 129. Here, both the method of determining the
amount and the means of enforcing payment are prescribed by statute. Compare William Cramp & Sons, etc.
Co. v. International Curtis Marine Turbine Co., 246 U. S.
28. But the question remains what is the amount recoverable. Did the Federal Control Act merely confer authority upon the President to enter into an agreement to
pay as much as the so-called " standard return," or did
it also direct him, if such an agreument was not reached,
to make payment on the basis of the " standard return "?
Congress has power to recognize moral obligations.
United States v. Realty Co., 163 U. S. 427, 441-443.
Hence, it could have provided for payment on the basis
of the standard return, even where there was no damage
according to the rules of law ordinarily applicable to
takings by eminent domain. Congress did not, however,
direct the President to make such payment. It merely
authorized him to agree with any carrier of whose railroad he took possession and control that it should "receive as just compensation an annual sum . . for each
year and pro rata for any fractional year of such Federal
control, not exceeding a sum equivalent as nearly as may
be to its average annual railway operating income for the
three years ended June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and
seventeen." The provision did not establish a rule of
compensation. The President was not permitted to agree
to pay more, but he was left free to refuse to pay that
sum. The carrier was left free to reject any offer that
might be made. Where no agreement was reached, the
carrier was relegated by § 3 to proceedings for ascertaining the amount of just compensation. The question thus
becomes one of determining the "just compensation" for
the use taken or damage done. If Congress had intended

MARION, &c., RY. v. UNITED STATES.
280

285

Opinion of the Court.

that the " standard return " should be taken as the measure of just compensation, in any event, there would have
been no occasion for a hearing before a board of referees.
The amount so payable could have been determined by
calculation from the " average" annual railway operating
income which, by § 1 of the Federal Control Act, p. 452,
the Interstate Commerce Commission itself was required
to ascertain and to certify to the Pres*ident.
Thus, the fact that the right to recover compensation
is a statutory one, did not relieve the railroad from the
burden of proving the value of the use taken from the
company or the damage suffered by it under rules ordinarily applicable to takings by eminent domain. Compare Mitchell v. United States, 267 U. S. 341, 345. Nor
did the report of the board of referees supply the necessary evidence. It is true that § 3 of the Federal Control
Act makes the report of the referees "prima facie evidence of the amount of just compensation and of the
facts therein stated." But the legal effect of evidence is
a question of law. The presumption otherwise attaching to a finding of the board was overcome by the facts
stated in the report and in the findings of the Court of
Claims. The board was required to, " consider all the
facts and circumstances "; and to "report as soon as practicable in each case to the President the just compensation" so ascertained. Its report discloses that it did not
consider "the facts and circumstances." Its finding of
just compensation rests wholly upon assumptions. It was
assumed that compensation for the use of the company's
property should be calculated upon the basis of an implied lease and agreement by the Government to pay a
fair rental although, as the report states, there was "no
evidence as to the amount for which the railroad could
have been rented; and there is no likelihood that there
was' any market for its rental." It was assumed further
that the assumed lease must be deemed to have been made

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court

270 U.S.

for an indeterminate period, because the duration of federal control could not be foretold on December 28, 1917;
that this rental value should be ascertained as of the date
of the commencement of federal control, and should be
measured, not upon the then immediate outlook for business for the first six months of 1918, but by the then
probable earnings for a period of years; and finally that
the amount should be fixed at one-half of the average
annual operating income for the three years prior to
January 1, 1918, and not at the smaller amount actually
shown to have been earned during the six months' period
and retained by the company. Ii.other words, the board
simply adopted as its measure the so-called "standard
return" of the Federal Control Act. No evidence was
introduced before it to show that the alleged taking had
subjected the company to any pecuniary loss or had deprived it of anything of pecuniary value, although the
hearing before the board was commenced long after the
period of alleged possession and control had expired.2
The report was, therefore, without evidential value.
The opinion of the Court of Claims discloses, pp.
253-255, that the company claimed there that, if it was
not entitled to recover under the Federal Control Act, it
was entitled to recover under § 204 of the Transportation
Act, 1920. This contention, overruled below, was not
renewed here.
Affirmed.
2 On or before July 4, 1918, the plaintiff received from John Barton
Payne, General Counsel for the Director General, the following notice:
"June 24, 1918.
"DEAR SIR: It is not clear whether the Marion & Rye Valley Railway Company has at any time been under Federal control. To
remove any possible question this order is issued definitely relinquishing same.
"Very truly yours,

"JOHN

BARTON PAYNE.

"T. S. AMuBLER, Gen. Mgr., Marion & Rye Valley Ry. Co.."

