OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Maryland.

270 U. S.

directing the District Judge to remand the indictment and
prosecution. Should the District Judge deem it proper
to allow another amendment to the petition for removal,
by which the averments necessary to bring the case within § 33 are supplied, he will be at liberty to do so. Otherwise the prosecution is to be remanded as upon a peremptory writ.
MARYLAND v. SOPER, JUDGE. (No. 2)
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 24 Original. Argued December 7 1925.-Decided February 1,
1926.

An indictment in a state court charging federal prohibition agents
with a conspiracy to obstruct justice by giving false testimony at
a coroner's inquest concerning a homicide for which they were
then under arrest and subsequently were indicted for murder, is
not removable to the federal court under § 33 of the Judicial Code,
even though the murder charge would be removable as one commenced "on account " of their official acts. P. 42.
Mandamus made absolute.

by the State of Maryland for a writ of mandamus dlrecting the United States District Judge of the
District of Maryland to remand to the proper state court
an indictment for conspiracy to obstruct justice by false
testimony, which had been removed to the District Court
under the provisions of § 33 of the Judicial Code. See
also the case next preceding.
PETITION

Messrs. Thos. H. Robinson, Attorney General of Maryland, and Herbert Levy, Assistant Attorney General of
Maryland, for petitioner.
If any reports were required of these federal officers, it
was their duty to make them to their superior. Unless
the words "act done under color of his office or any such
law" in § 33 of the Judicial Code are to be deprived of
ali meaning and effect, they clearly render the provisions
of that statute inapplicable to the ease at bar. If it can

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 2)
36

Argument for Respondent.

be claimed that a report made to a coroner's inquest is a
report made under color of office or of a revenue law, then
an action arising out of any slanderous statement made
by a revenue officer in the course of his private and personal transactions can also be removed. If the prosecution in this case can be removed, then any action or
prosecution, no matter how personal its nature or how
unconnected with the official capacity of the revenue
officer, can be removed. The essence of the offense charged
against the officers was a conspiracy to commit perjury
before the coroner's inquest. See Thomas v. Loney, 134
U. S. 372, holding: "the power of punishing a witness for
testifying falsely in a judicial proceeding belongs peculiarly to the government in whose tribunals that proceeding is had."
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for respondent.
' The prosecution for conspiracy to obstruct justice was
properly removable, notwithstanding that the defendants
expressly denied having conspired. This Court has declared that "even the most unquestionable and most universally applicable of state laws, such as those concerning
murder," will not be allowed to control the conduct of
federal officers in certain cases. Johnson v. Maryland,
254 U. S. 51. And in numberless instances federal officers,
accused in the state courts of murder, have been removed
for trial"to the federal courts, or have even been released
on habeas corpus without having to stand any trial at all.
Where a federal officer held in state custody claims the
protection of the federal court, either by petition for
,habeas corpus, or by petition for removal, the court may
look behind the actual indictment to ascertain whether the
act was really done under color of federal authority. In
re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1;*Virginia v. Felts, 133 Fed. 85;
Virginiav. De Hart, 119 Fed. 626; Ex parte Jenkins, Fed.
Cas. No. 7259. Removal has been granted in many cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

270 U. S.

and upon an almost endless variety of charges. The following will serve as illustrations: Findley v. Satterfield,
Fed. Cas. No. 4792; Virginia v. Felts, 133 Fed. 85; Virginia v. De Hart, 119 Fed. 626; Delaware v. Emerson, 8
Fed. 411; Virginia v. Bingham, 8 Fed. 561; Buttner v.
Miller, Fed. Cas. No. 2254; Warner v. Fowler, Fed. Cas.
No. 17182.
The purpose of the removal statute, as recognized in
Tennessee v. Davis, is twofold: First, to protect the functions of the Federal Government from being hindered by
the possible unfriendly action of States and to prevent
its officers from being withdrawn from their duty and
held in confinement by state authorities; and, second, to
protect the officers themselves. Both of these purposes
can be defeated as well by indictments for acts which the
officers deny altogether as by indictments for acts which
they admit having done, but for which they claim justification under federal law.
It is argued that the indictment for conspiracy has no
reasonable connection with their acts done under federal
authority. But it must be remembered that the charge of
conspiracy is bound up with the charge of murder, and
that the same train of circumstances led up to both. It
is submitted that the case can not be disposed of upon the
simple theory that federal officers can never be called
upon to commit "conspiracy" in the abstract. The name
given to the charge is immaterial. The court must look
behind the name to the actual circumstances under which
it arose. Judged by this test, the present charge of conspiracy bears a. direct relation to the acts done by the accused "under color of their office" and "under color of the
revenue laws of the United States." And if that is true,
then the prosecution was properly removable to the federal court. It is "color of office" and "color of the law"
which the statute makes ground for removal of the cause.
"Color of office" covers something which may prove in-

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 2)
36

Opinion of the Court.

sufficient as a defense, as well as that which may prove
sufficient. The removal statute on this point differs
sharply from the statute which confers upon federal officers the right to be discharged upon habeas corpus.
The decision of the District Court granting the petition
for removal, and denying the motion to remand, was an
exercise of lawful judicial discretion, and can not be controlled by mandamus.
IR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a petition for mandamus by the State of Maryland to require the District Court of the United States
for that State to remand to the state Circuit Court for
Harford County an indictment by the grand jury of that
county for obstructing justice of the State by false testimony. The indictment had been removed from the circuit court to the federal court in asserted compliance with
§ 33 of the Judicial Code. The amended petition of
removal, upon the sufficiency of which the application of
§ 33 turns, discloses the same state of facts as that
shown in the mandamus case between the same parties,
just decided. The indictment charges that the same defendants as were there charged with murder conspired in
a hearing before a justice of the peace of Harford County,
acting as the coroner-with a jury and engaged in the official
duty of inquiring into the manner of the death of Lawrence Wenger on November 20, 1924, to deceive the coroner and jury by withholding the facts concerning Wenger's
death, and falsely asserting ignorance thereof, in order to
induce them to return a, false and erroneous verdict, and
thus to obstruct justice in violation of a criminal statute
of Maryland. This testimony was given the day after
Wenger's death while the defendants were under arrest
on the charge of murder, and the indictment in this case
was returned at the same time as the indictment for
murder.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

The amended petition of defendants for removal avers
that "on the afternoon of November twentieth your petitioners were called before the Coroner's Inquest heretofore described in the indictment, and freely and without
reservation in accordance with their duty as investigating and reporting officers of the Federal Government and
acting under the direction of the Maryland Federal Prohibition Director, related the facts before mentioned.
And thereupon they were again placed in the Harford
County jail and held for the action of the Harford County
Grand Jury." The amended petition concludes with the
statement that "The said indictment is now pending in
the Circuit Court for Harford County and is a criminal
prosecution on account of acts alleged to have been done
by your petitioners at a time when they were engaged
in the performance of their duties as Federal Prohibition
Officers and chauffeur for Federal Prohibition Officers as
set forth in the aforegoing paragraphs."
The record in this case is in all respects like that in.
the case just decided, except that the prosecution is for
obstruction of justice. The orders of the federal District
Court, the other proceedings, the stipulation as to evidence, the petition for mandamus, and the return of Judge
Soper to the rule issued on the petition of the State for
mandamus, are all similar.
Counsel for the State of Maryland argue that the
accused officers were in no sense acting in their official
capacity when engaged in the alleged conspiracy to deceive the coroner, that their duty had been discharged
when they destroyed the still, that their subsequent reports of what had happened to their federal superiors are
not the subject of this prosecution, that the indictments
for conspiracy and perjury were based not on acts which
the defendants had done in pursuance of federal law and
in discharge of their duty to the federal Government, but
on testimony given by them under their obligations to

MARYLAND v. SOPER. (NO. 2)
36

Opinion of the Court.

the State as individuals and for which they were detained
in jail. To this it is answered, on behalf of the United
States, as follows:
"But how did the officers come to be in jail? If they
had not been engaged in the performance of their duties
as federal officers they would never have been there.
When they found Wenger's body, they had just come
from performing their duty and were on their way back
to report officially to their superior. At that time they
were still acting in their official capacity. United States
v, Gleason, 1 Wool. C. C. 128. In immediately seeking
for a physician and in reporting Wenger's death at once
to the State's Attorney, they were doing the only reasonable act which could be expected of them, both as p-.blic
officers and as private citizens. But, as their petition
alleges, the State's Attorney, on being informed by them
that 'your petitioners . . . were prohibition officers,' ordered them to be at once placed under arrest.
" If they had not discovered Wenger and reported his
murder, there would have been no need for them to testify
before the Coroner's jury, and there Nyould have been no
occasion for any charge of conspiracy. The two charges,
it is submitted, are so closely inter-related that they can
not properly be separated. The charge of murder gave
rise to the charge of conspiracy. If the former charge is
removable to the Federal court, it is submitted that the
latter should be removable also.
"Considerable danger would be involved in a contrary
holding. If charges of murder alleged to have been committed by Federal officers are removable, and charges of
conspiracy and similar offenses are not removable, an
obvious expedient would suggest itself. in localities where
the administration of particular Federal laws is unpopular,
Federal officers need no longer be dragged before hostile
state tribunals on charges such as murder, on which they
may successfully claim removal and plead self-defense.

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of lle Court.

270 U. S.

The charge can readily be altered to 'conspiracy' or to
some other crime, which the accused officers deny having
committed at all, but on which it will be clear that removal can not be obtained. The actual charge will serve
merely as a cloak to obtain the desired end, namely, incarceration of an unpopular officer. In this way the functions of the Federal Government may be harassed or impeded and its officers withdrawn from their duty as effectively as by prosecutions for homicide actually committed
in self-defense. This method may easily become as effective as out-and-out nullification of Federal laws."
We may concede that the reports of the officers to their
federal superiors were within their official duty, but it does
not follow that whatever happened betweeni the events
at the place of the still and the return to Baltimore to
make report was within the protection of their official
immunity. It depends upon the nature of that which they
did in the interval. The right of the State to inquire into
suspected crime in its territory justifies the use of investigation by its officers and the questioning of suspected
persons under oath. The response of the federal officer
under suspicion to such questioning is not an act of his
under federal authority.
Of course one can state a case in which acts not expressly
authorized by the federal statutes are such an inevitable
outgrowth of the officer's discharge of his federal duty and
so closely interrelated with it as necessarily to be within
the protection of § 33.
Thus removals of prosecutions on account of acts done
in enforcement of the revenue or prohibition laws or under
color of them properly include those for acts committed
by a federal officer in defense of his life, threatened while
enforcing or attempting to enforce the law. Such acts
of defense are really part of the exercise of his official
authority. They are necessary to make the enforcement
effective.

MARYLAND v. 'SOPER. (NO. 2)
36

Opinion of he Court.

This is as far as the case of United States v. Gleason,
supra, 25 Fed. Cases 1335, No. 15,216, cited by government counsel, would by analogy carry us. That was a
charge to the jury by Mr. Justice Miller in the trial of a
federal criminal indictment under a statute punishing the
obstruction of a federal officer in arresting an army deserter
which caused the death of the officer. The Justice said to
the jury that if the officer, having been obstructed, was
retreating with a view of making other arrangements to
perform his duty of arresting, he was still employed in
arresting deserters. It was not necessary, to render his
killing an offense against the United States, that he should
be engaged in the immediate duty of arrest. "The purpose of the law is to protect the life of the person so employed, and this protection continues so long as he is engaged in a service necessary and proper to that employment." But the indictment which is here removed is for
acts not thus closely connected with, and included in, the
attempted enforcement of the federal law.
The defendants, when called upon to testify before the
coroner, were not obliged by federal law to do so. Indeed,
even under state law, they might have stood mute, because
the proceeding was one in which they were accused of
crime. They themselves show that they voluntarily made
the statements upon which these' indictments were
founded. While of course it was natural that if not guilty
they should have responded fully and freely to all questions as to their knowledge of the transaction, with a view
of showing their innocence, nevertheless their evidence was
not in performance of their duty as officers of the United
States. "
In answer to the suggestion that our construction of
§ 33 and our failure to sustain the right of removal in the
case before us will permit evilly minded persons to evade
the useful operations of § 33, we can only say that, if
prosecutions of this kind come to be used to obstruct

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
270 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

seriously the enforcement of federal laws, it will be for
Congress in its discretion to amend § 33 so that the words
"on account of " shall be enlarged to mean that any
prosecution of a federal officer for any state offense which
can be shown by evidence to have had its motive in a
wish to hinder him in the enforcement of federal law,
may be removed for trial to the proper federal court.
We are not now considering or intimating whether such
an enlargement would be valid; but what we wish to be
understood as deciding is that the present language of
§ 33 can not be broadened by fair construction to give it
such a meaning. These were not prosecutions, therefore,
commenced on account of acts done by these defendants
solely in pursuance of their federal authority. With the
statute as it is, they can not have the protection of a
trial in the federal court, however natural their denials
under oath of inculpating circumstances. As the indictment in this case was not removable under § 33, the mandamus to the Judge of tle District Court to remand it to
the Circuit Court for Harford County, Maryland, must
.be made absolute. The writ need not issue, however, as
Judge Soper's return indicates that he will act upon an
expression of our views.

MARYLAND v. SOPER, JUDGE.

(No. 3)

PETITION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS

No. 25, Original.

Argued December 7, 1925.-Decided February 1,
1926.

Decided upon the authority of Maryland v. Soper (No. 2), ante,
p. 36.

Messrs. Thos. H. Robinson, Attorney General of Maryland, and Herbert Levy, Assistant Attorney General of
Maryland, for petitioner.

