416

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Syllabus.

270 U. S.

It is said that there was unjustifiable discrimination.
A classification is not to be pronounced arbitrary because
it goes on practical grounds and attacks only those objects
that exhibit or foster an evil on a large scale. It is not
required to be mathematically precise and to embrace
every case that theoretically is capable of doing the same
harm. "If the law presumably hits the evil where it is
most felt, it is not to be overthrown because there are
other instances to which it might have been applied."
Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384. In this case, as in
Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, I think that we are pressing the
Fourteenth Amendment too far.
MR.JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

and MR.JUSTICE STONE concur

in this opinion.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
THOMPSON MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 178. Argued January 27, 1926.-Decided March 8, 1926.
1. The statement that the basis of a carrier's liability for goods
lost or damaged in transit is "presumed negligence" is in effect
only a statement of substantive law that the carrier isliable
unless the loss or damage was due to the act of God or the public
enemy, or the nature of the goods. P. 421.
2. The second proviso of the "Cummins Amendment" relieves shippers from filing notice of claim, etc., where damage to goodg in
transit is due to the carrier's ".carelessness or negligence," only
when the damage is due to the carrier's negligence in fact.
P. 422.
3. The burden of proof is on the shipper to establish negligence
within the meaning of the proviso. P. 422.
4 Evidence that goods were shipped in good condition and delivered
in bad condition, makes a prima facie case. P. 422.
5. But where, to rebut such prima facie showing, the carrier introduced evidence of the condition of the cars in which the goods

C. &. 0. RY. CO. v. THOMPSON MFG. CO. 417
416

Argument for Petitioner.

were shipped, tending persuasively to exclude the possibility of
negligence, it was error to instruct the jury that, if the damage was
not due to the act of God or the public enemy or to the inherent
condition of the goods, they might return a verdict for the shipper.

P. 423.
99 W. Va. 670, reversed.

CERTIORAM to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of West Virginia which affirmed a recovery of
damages by the appellee in an action against the Railway
Company for damage to goods in transitu.
Mr. C. N. Davis, with whom Mr. C. W. Strickling was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Under the second proviso of the Act of Congress, filing
of claim is dispensed with when damage results from
carelessness or negligence. Barrett v. Van Pelt, 268 U.
S. 85; Davis v. Roper Lumber Co., 269 U. S. 158. When
a shipper shows delivery of goods to a carrier in
good condition, and non-delivery or delivery to the
consignee in damaged condition, there arises a prima
facie presumption of liability. Many of the courts have
said that this presumption is a presumption of negligence.' But it was certainly not the intention of Congress
to exempt shippers from their duty to give to carriers
reasonable notice of claims where such claims were based
on a mere prima facie presumption. Whether this presumption be called a presumption of negligence or one
of liability is immaterial, as it is based entirely upon the
peculiar relation that exists between shippers and carriers, which makes a carrier an insurer of goods entrusted
to it for transportation, and, in case of loss, injury or
damage to such goods, imposes upon it the burden of
showing that such loss resulted from one of the so-called
excepted risks. In such cases liability is not imposed
upon carriers because of negligence, but is imposed upon
them because, as insurers, they must either deliver goods
entrusted to them in the same condition as when they
100569*-26-27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Argument for Respondent.

270 U.S.

were received, or show affirmatively that their failure to
make such delivery was the result of one of the causes
coming under the excepted risk classification.
In this case the carrier had no notice of anything that
might lead it to believe that any claim might be expected.
The phrase "by carelessness or negligence" applies to all
classes of claims,-loss, damage or injury. The rule of
proof, which gives rise to a presumption against the carrier, would, if the holding of the court below were followed, 'entirely relieve all shippers from filing claims
where there was either a loss, damage or injury; because
the presumption is exactly the same, whether the claim
be one of loss, or damage or injury. It was not the intention to exempt a shipper from filing claim where there
was a damage in transit and no proof of negligence or
carelessness other than such prima fade presumption.
Hailey v. Oregon Short Line R. Co., 253 Fed. 569; Gillett
Safety Razor Co.v. Davis, 278 Fed. 864; Cunningham v.
Missouri Pacific R. Co., 291 S. W. 1003.
Mr. Henry Simms, with whom Mr. Lewis A. Staker was
on the brief, for respondent.
The common carriers are conclusively presumed as a
matter of law to be guilty of carelessness or negligence in
the handling of shipments of freight in their possession
unless in the absence of proof that'the loss, damage or
injury to the goods was caused by one of the exceptions, which are, acts of God, acts of public enemy, or
causes due to the inherent or intrinsic nature of the shipments. Hall v. Nashville & Chattanooga Ry. Co., 13
Wall. 367; The Majestic, 166 U. S. 375; The Caledonia,
157 U. S. 124; The Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U. S. 199;
Memphis, etc., R. Co. v. Reeves, 10 Wall. 176; Clark v.
Barnwell, 12 How. 272; 10 Corpus Juris, Carriers, ยง 576;
Natl. Rice Mill Co. v. New Orleans, etc., R. Co., 132 La.
615; Collins v. Denver, etc., R. Co., 181 Mo. App. 213.

C. &. 0. RY. CO. v. THOMPSON MFG. CO. 419
416

Opinion of the Court.

Hall v. Nashville & ChattanoogaRy. Co., supra, holds
that, where goods are delivered to the carrier in good
condition and are delivered by the carrier in bad condition
at the point of destination it raises a conclusive presumption of misconduct and breach of duty on the part of the
carrier; and this can only mean that it raises a conclusive
presumption of negligence and carelessness on the part
of the carrier. It is conceded that the respondent proved
that the goods were delivered to the petitioner in good
condition. The jury in finding their verdict in favor of
respondent passed upon the question of negligence and
decided .that the railroad company was guilty of negligence in legal effect exactly the same as if there had been
positive and affirmative proof of the exact cause of the
damage in transit.
No one should assume that Congress in enacting the
First Cummins Amendment intended to destroy the common law presumption of negligence in cases similar to the
case at bar; nor should anyone assume or argue that it
was the intent of Congress to change the rules of evidence
as they existed in such cases. "Carelessness and negligence" as used in the Amendment include all classes of
carelessness and negligence, both such as must be affirmatively proved, as in Barrett v. Van Pelt, 268 U. S.
85, and such as is conclusively presumed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The respondent, a corporation, brought suit in the Circuit Court of Cabell County, West Virginia, to recover
from petitioner, a common carrier, for damage to an interstate shipment of goods. The case was twice tried.
See Thompson Manufacturing Co. v. Railroad,93 W. Va.
3. The second trial before a jury resulted in a judgment
for the respondent, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Appeals of West Virginia, 99 W. Va. 670. This
court granted certiorari, 267 U. S. 588. Jud. Code, ยง 237.

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

Petitioner supplied respondent, at its request, with two
box cars for the transportation of a quantity of sheet iron
gas stoves in car load lots from Huntington, West Virginia, to Kansas City, Missouri. The stoves were shipped
by respondent in good condition on interstate bills of
lading purporting to exempt the carrier from liability
unless claims for damage "be made in writing to the
carrier within four months after delivery of the property."
Upon arrival, many of the stoves were found to be damaged by rust and unsalable. Respondent brought the
present suit more than four months after the delivery of
the stoves, setting up in its amended declaration that the
damage was caused by the negligent conduct of the petitioner. At the trial, the respondent made no attempt to
show compliance with the requirement of the bill of lading for written notice of its claim to the carrier, and relied
wholly on proof of the delivery of the stoves to the carrier in good condition and the delivery by the carrier at
destination in a damaged condition, to establish its right
to recover. Petitioner proved that the cars supplied were
in weather-tight condition; that, after the goods were
loaded on the cars, they were sealed at the point of shipment, and that they arrived at destination in the same
weather-tight condition, with seals unbroken.
The case turns on the meaning and application, in the
circumstances, of the last proviso of the so-called Cummins Amendment, Act of March 4, 1915, 38 Stat. 1196,
1197, c. 176, amending the Interstate Commerce Act of
February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended by ยง 7
of the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 593.
The last two provisos of the Act, as construed in Barrett
v. Van Pelt, 268 U. S. 85, read as follows:
"Provided further, that it shall be unlawful for any
such common carrier to provide by rule, contract, regulation, or otherwise a shorter period for giving notice of
claims than ninety days and for the filing of claims for a

C. &. 0. IY.CO. v. THOMPSON MFG. CO. 421
416

Opinion of the Court.

shorter period than four months, and for the institution
of suits than two years: Provided, however, that if the
loss, damage, or injury complained of was due to delay
or damage while being loaded or unloaded or damage in
transit by carelessness or negligence, then no notice of
claim nor filing of claim shall be required as a condition
precedent to recovery."
If respondent does not bring the case within the terms
of the final proviso, its failure to give written notice of
claim will bar it from recovery. See Georgia, Florida &
Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish Co., 241 U. S. 190; Barrett v.
Van Pelt, supra; Davis v. Roper Lumber Co., 269
U. S. 158.
It was argued by petitioner in the state court, as it
argues here, that, as respondent offered no direct evidence that the damage to the goods in transit was caused
by negligence of petitioner, respondent did not show compliance with the requirements of the Cummins Amendment for relieving the shipper from the necessity of filing
its claim in writing with the carrier. On the other hand,
it is argued by the respondent that every carrier receiving
goods for carriage in good condition, and returning them
in bad condition, is conclusively presuimed to have been
negligent and is liable for the damage resulting from its
negligence, unless the injury was caused by the act of
God, the public enemy, or the act of the shipper, or the
nature of the goods themselves; that, as the evidence and
the verdict of the jury established that the damage was
not due to any of these causes, the carrier's negligence
was to be conclusively presumed, and no notice of claim
was necessary under the provisions of the Cummins
Amendment.
It is sometimes said that the basis of the carrier's liability for loss of goods or for their damage in transit is
"presumed negligence." Hall & Long v. Railroad Companies, 13 Wall. 367, 372. But the so-called presumption

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1925.
Opinion of the Court.

270 U. S.

is not a true presumption, since it cannot be rebutted,
and the statement itself is only another way of stating
the rule of substantive law that a carrier is liable for a
failure to transport safely goods intrusted to its care, unless the loss or damage was due to one of the specified
causes. See Railroad Co. v. Reeves, 10 Wall. 176, 189;
Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 7 Wall. 357, 376; Bank of
Kentucky v. Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. 174, 181.
We do not consider that the phrase "carelessness or
negligence" of the carrier, as used in the Cummins
Amendment in exempting shippers from giving written
notice of a claim for damage, has any reference to the
conclusive "presumption" to which we have referred.
If such were the meaning of the statute, every case of carrier's liability for damage in transit would be a case of
presumed negligence, and proof of written notice of claim
for damage required by the bill of lading would always be
dispensed with, and the plain purpose of the amendment
would be defeated. We think that by the use of the words
"carelessness or negligence," it was intended to relieve the
shipper from the necessity of making written proof of
claim when, and only when, the damage was due to the
carrier's actual negligent conduct, and that by carelessness
or negligence is meant not a rule of liability without fault,
but negligence in fact. See Barrett v. Van Pelt, supra.
There is no language in the statute from which a purpose may be inferred to vary or limit the common law
rules governing proof of negligence as a fact in issue, and
the shipper may follow these rules when he seeks to show
that no notice of claim was necessary.
The respondent therefore had the burden of proving
the carrier's negligence as one of the facts essential to recovery. When he introduced evidence to show delivery
of the shipment to the carrier in good condition and its
delivery to the consignee in bad condition, the petitioner
became subject to the rule applicable to all bailees, that

C. &. 0. RY. CO. v. THOMPSON MFG. CO. 423
416

Opinion of the Court.

such evidence makes out a prima fac'e case of negligence.
Miles v. International Hotel Co., 289 Ill. 320; Miller v.
Miloslowsky, 153 Ia. 135; Dinsmore v. Abbott, 89 Me.
373; Railroad Co. v. Hughes, 94 Miss. 242, 246; Hildebrand v. Carroll, 106 Wis. 324. The effect of the respondent's evidence was, we think, to make a prima facie
case for the jury. See Sweeney v. Irving, 228 U. S. 233;
Haines v. Shapiro, 168 N. C. 34, 35; Sims v. Roy, 4 App.
D. C. 496, 499. But even if this "prima facie case" be regarded as sufficient, in the absence of rebutting evidence,
to entitle the plaintiff to a verdict (Bushwell v. Fuller,
89 Me. 600, 602, 603; Cogdell v. Railroad, 132 N. C. 852),
the trial court erred here in deciding the issue of negligence in favor of the plaintiff as a matter of law. For the
petitioner introduced evidence of the condition of the
cars from the time of shipment to the time of arrival,
which persuasively intended to exclude the possibility of
negligence.
The trial court properly submitted to the jury the
question whether the damage was due to an act of God
or the public enemy or to the inherent condition of the
stoves, since upon the answer to it depended the liability
of the carrier provided the shipper was entitled, under the
Cummins Amendment, to maintain suit without giving
the stipulited notice. But the court erroneously instructed the jury that if they found that the damage was
not due to these causes, they might return a verdict for
the respondent, thus, in effect, resolving the issue of negligence in favor of the respondent.
The judgment must therefore be reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

