OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

DEAVER v. UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-10.

Decided July 1, 1987

An application by a former Government official to stay his imminent perjury trial pending this Court's disposition of his petition for certiorari is denied. After applicant was indicted following an independent
counsel's investigation pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act, the
District Court denied his motion to dismiss, which was based on a
separation-of-powers challenge to that Act, and the Court of Appeals
dismissed his appeal because the District Court's order is not a final decision under 28 U. S. C. § 1291. There is a fair prospect that a majority of
this Court would not find the decision below erroneous, since the District
Court's action did not terminate the litigation, and since applicant's constitutional challenge to the Act is not sufficiently collateral to fall within
the limited exception enumerated in Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial
Loan Corp., 337 U. S. 541, in that consideration of the challenge here
would result in piecemeal appellate review of an issue that can properly
be presented to the appellate courts if and when applicant is convicted.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant requests that I stay his imminent criminal trial

pending this Court's disposition of his petition for certiorari.
In certain cases, the Ethics in Government Act, 28 U. S. C.
§§ 49, 591-598 (1982 ed. and Supp. III), provides for appointment of an independent counsel to investigate alleged impropriety of Government officials. After an investigation by an
independent counsel, applicant was indicted for perjury, and
is set to be tried on July 13, 1987. In a motion to dismiss,
applicant challenged the constitutionality of the Act, claiming
that appointment of an independent counsel violates the separation of powers. The District Court denied the motion.
1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers

483 U. S.

Applicant appealed, and the Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit dismissed the appeal because the District
Court's order is not a final decision. See 28 U. S. C. § 1291.
Applicant has filed a petition for certiorari seeking review of
that judgment, and asks that I stay the proceedings below
pending disposition of that petition.
The standards for granting a stay pending disposition of a
petition for certiorari are well settled. A Circuit Justice is
required "'to determine whether four Justices would vote to
grant certiorari, to balance the so-called "stay equities," and
to give some consideration as to predicting the final outcome
of the case in this Court."' Heckler v. Redbud Hospital District, 473 U. S. 1308, 1311-1312 (1985) (REHNQUIST, J., in
chambers), quoting Gregory-Portland Independent School
District v. United States, 448 U. S. 1342 (1980).
In my view, there is not a fair prospect that a majority of
this Court would find the decision below erroneous. "Congress has limited the jurisdiction of the Courts of Appeals to
'final decisions of the district courts.' 28 U. S. C. § 1291.
This Court has long held that the policy of Congress embodied in this statute is inimical to piecemeal appellate review of
trial court decisions which do not terminate the litigation,
and that this policy is at its strongest in the field of criminal
law." United States v. Hollywood Motor Car Co., 458 U. S.
263, 264-265 (1982). It is clear that the District Court's denial of applicant's motion to dismiss did not terminate the litigation. Although applicant claims that his challenge to the
constitutionality of the Act is sufficiently collateral to fall
within the limited exception enumerated in Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp., 337 U. S. 541 (1949), I do not
think the exception covers this case. "[I]f [applicant's] principle were to be applied, questions as to the constitutionality
of the statutes authorizing the prosecution and doubtless numerous other questions would fall under such a definition,
and the policy against piecemeal appeals in criminal cases
would be swallowed by ever-multiplying exceptions." Hol-

DEAVER v. UNITED STATES
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

lywood Motor Car, supra, at 270. There will be time enough
for applicant to present his constitutional claim to the appellate courts if and when he is convicted of the charges against
him.
Accordingly, the application for a stay and recall of the
mandate of the Court of Appeals is
Denied.

