OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

favor of the defendant in error was predicated, was justified.
Such being the case, it results that the doubt engendered
must be resolved against him. The claim advanced is that an
exceptional privilege or exemption from the general operation
of a law exists in favor of the defendant in error. Such a
claim is within the general principle that exemptions must be
strictly construed, and that doubt must be resolved against
the one asserting the exemption. Schurtz v. Cook, 148 U. S.
397; KEeokuk & estrn Railroadv. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301,
306.
It results from these considerations that the judgments of
both the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California and the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Nbinth Circuit were erroneous. Both the judgments must,
therefore, be
Reversed, and the cause be remanded to the .District Court
of t7e United Btate for the .Yorthern Distri t of California,with directions to enter judgment in favor of the
United States, with costs.

31R. JusnoT

Pxtam

dissents.

WARD v. RACE HORSE.
APPEAL FROM TH

CIRUT COURT OF TEM LIMM STATES POR
THE DISTRICT OF WYOMING.

No.841. Argued March 11, 12,1896. -D.ided May 25,1896.
The provision in the treaty of February 24, 1869, with the Bannock Indians,
whose reservation was within the limits of what is now the State of
Wyoming, that "they shall have the right to hunt upon the unoccupied
lands of the United States sb long as game may be found thereon," etc.,
does not give them the right to exercise this privilege within the limits
of that State In violation of Its laws.

TmIs appeal was taken from an order of the court below,
rendered in a habea corpus proceeding, discharging the ap-

WARD v. RACE HORSE.
Statement of the Case.

pellee from custody. 70 Fed. Rep. 598. The petition for the
writ based the right to the relief, which it prayed for and which
the court below granted, on the ground that the detention
complained of was in violation of the Constitution and laws
of the United States, and in disregard of a right arising from
and guaranteed by a treaty made by the United States with
the Bannock Indians. Because of these grounds the jurisdiction below existed, and the right to review here obtains. Rev.
Stat. ยง 753; act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826. The record
shows the following material facts: The appellee, the plaintiff below, was a member of the Bannock tribe of Indians, retaining his tribal relation and residing with it in the Fort
Hall Indian Reservation. This reservation was created by the
United States in compliance with a treaty entered into between the United States and the Eastern band of Shoshonees
and the Bannock tribe of Indians, which took effect February
24, 1869. 15 Stat. 673. Article 2 of this treaty, besides setting
apart a reservation for the use of the Shoshonees, provided:
"It is agreed that whenever the Bannocks desire a reservation to be set apart for their use, or whenever the President
of the United States shall deem it advisable for them to be
put upon a reservation, he shall cause a suitable one to be selected for them in their present country, which shall embrace
reasonable portions of the ' Port Keuf' and ' Kansas Prairie'
countries."
In pursuance of the foregoing stipulation the Fort Hall Indian Reservation was set apart for the use of the Bannock
tribe.
Article 4 of the treaty provided as follows:
"The Indians herein named agree, when the agency house
and other buildings shall be constructed on their reservations
named, they will make said reservations their permanent home,
and they will make no permanent settlement elsewhere; but
they shall have the right to hunt upon the unoccupied lands
of the United States so long as game may be found thereon,
and so long as peace subsists among the whites and Indians
on the borders of the hunting districts."
In July, 1868, an act had been passed erecting a temporary

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

government for the Territory of Wyoming, 15 Stat. 178, c.
235, and in this act it was provided as follows:
"That nothing in this act shall be construed to impair the
rights of person or property now pertaining to the Indians
in said Territory, so long as such rights shall remain unextinguished by treaty between the United States and such
Indians."
Wyoming was admitted into the Union on July 10, 1890.
26 Stat. 222, c. 664. Section 1 of that act provides as follows:
"That the State of Wyoming is hereby declared to be a
State of the United States of America, and is hereby declared
admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original
States in all respects whatever; and that the constitution
which the people of Wyoming have formed for themselves
be, and the same is hereby, accepted, ratified and confirmed."
The act contains no exception or reservation in favor of or
for the benefit of Indians.
The legislature of Wyoming on July 20, 1895, (Laws of
Wyoming, 1895, c. 98, p. 225,) passed an act regulating the
killing of game within the State. In October, 1895, the district attorney of Uinta County, State of Wyoming, filed an
information against the appellee (Race Horse) for having killed
in that county seven elk in violation of the law of the State.
He was taken into custody by the sheriff, and it was to obtain
a release from imprisonment authorized by a commitment
issued under these proceedings that the writ of hae8 corpug
was sued out. The following facts are unquestioned: 1st.
That the elk were killed in Uinta County, Wyoming, at a point
about one hundred miles from the Fort Hall Indian Reservation, which is situated in the State of Idaho; 2d, Lhat the killing was in violation of the laws of the State of Wyoming;
3d, that the place where the killing took place was unoccupied
public land of the United States, in the sense that the United
States was the owner of the fee of the land; 4th, that the
place where the elk were killed was in a mountainous region
some distance removed from settlements, but was used by the
settlers as a range for cattle, and was within election and
school districts of the State of Wyoming.

WARD v. RACE HORSE.
Opinion of the Court.

.r.

Benjamin F. Fowler and -Mr. Willi8 Van Devanter

for appellant.
.Mr. Attorney Generalfor appellee.
MR. JusTiCE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is wholly immaterial, for the purpose of the legal issue
here presented, to consider whether the place where the elk
were killed is in the vicinage of white settlements. It is also
equally irrelevant to ascertain how far the land was used for
a cattle range, since the sole question which the case presents
is whether the treaty made by the United States with the
Bannock Indians gave them the right to exercise the hunting
privilege, therein referred to, within the limits of the State of
Wyoming in violation of its laws. If it gave such right, the
mere fact that the State had created school districts or election districts, and had provided for pasturage on the lands,
could no more efficaciously operate to destroy the right of the
Indian to hunt on the lands than could the passage of the
game law. If, on the other hand, the terms of the treaty did
not refer to lands within a State, which were subject to the
legislative power of the State, then it is equally clear that,
although the lands were not in school and election districts
and were not near settlements, the right conferred on the
Indians by the treaty would be of no avail to justify a violation of the state law.
The power of a State to control and regulate the taking of
game cannot be questioned. Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.
519. The text of article 4 of the treaty, relied on as giving
the right to kill game within the State of Wyoming, in violation of its laws, is as follows:
"But they shall have the right to hunt on the unoccupied
lands of the United States, so long as game may be found
thereon, and so long as peace subsists among the whites and
Indians on the borders of the hunting districts."
It may at once be conceded that the words "unoccupied

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

lands of the United States" if they stood alone, and were detached from the other provisions of the treaty on the same
subject, would convey the meaning of lands owned by the
United States, and the title to or occupancy of which had not
been disposed of. But in interpreting these words in the
treaty, they cannot be considered alone, but must be construed
with reference to the context in which they are found. Adopting this elementary method, it becomes at once clear that the
unoccupied lands contemplated were not all such lands of the
United States wherever situated, but were only lands of that
character embraced within what the treaty denominates as
hunting districts. This view follows as a necessary result from
the provision which says that the right to hunt on the unoccupied lands shall only be availed of as long as peace subsists
on the borders of the hunting districts. Unless the districts thus
referred to betaken as controlling the words "unoccupied lands,"
then the reference to the hunting districts would become wholly
meaningless, and the cardinal rule of interpretation would be
violated, which ordains that such construction be adopted as
gives effect to all the language of the statute. Nor can this
consequence be avoided by saying that the words "hunting
districts" simply signified places where game was to be found,
for this would read out of the treaty the provision as "to
peace on the borders " of such districts, which clearly pointed
to the fact that the territory referred to was one beyond the
borders of the white settlements. The unoccupied lands referred to, being therefore contained within the hunting districts, by the ascertainment of the latter the former will be
necessarily determined, as the less is contained in the greater.
The elucidation of this issue will be made plain by an appreciation of the situation existing at the time of the adoption of
the treaty, of the necessities which brought it into being and
of the purposes intended to be by it accomplished.
When in 1868 the treaty was framed the progress of the
white settlements westward had hardly, except in a very
scattered way, reached the confines of the place selected for
the Indian reservation. Whilst this was true, the march of
advancing civilization foreshadowed the fact that the wilder-

WARD v. RACE HORSE.
Opinion of the Court.

ness, which lay on all sides of the point selected for the reservation, was destined to be occupied and settled by the white
man, hence interfering with the hitherto ufitrammelled right
of occupancy of the Indian. For this reason, to protect his
rights and to preserve for him a home where his tribal relations might be enjoyed under the shelter of the authority of
the United States, the reservation was created. Whilst confining him to the reservation, and in order to give him the
privilege of hunting in the designated districts, so long as the
necessities of civilization did not require otherwise, the provision in question was doubtless adopted, care being, however,
taken to make the whole enjoyment in this regard dependent
absolutely upon the will of Congress. To prevent this privilege from becoming dangerous to the peace of the new settlements as they advanced, the provision allowing the Indian to
avail himself of it only whilst peace reigned on the borders
was inserted. To suppose that the words of the treaty intended to give to the Indian the right to enter into already
established States and seek out every portion of unoccupied
government land and there exercise the right of hunting, in
violation of the municipal law, would be to presume that the
treaty was so drawn as to frustrate the very object it had in
view. It would also render necessary the assumption that

COgress, whilst preparing the way, by the treaty, for new
settlements and new States, yet created a provision not only
detrimental to their future well-being, but also irreconcilably
in conflict with the powers of the States already existing. It
is undoubted that the place in the State of Wyoming, where
the game in question was killed, was at the time of the treaty,
in 1868, embraced within the hunting districts therein referred
to. But this fact does not justify the implication that the
treaty authorized the continued enjoyment of the right of
killing game therein, when the territory ceased to be a part
of the hunting districts and came within the authority and
jurisdiction of a State. The right to hunt given by the treaty
clearly contemplated the disappearance of the conditions
therein specified. Indeed, it made the right depend on
whether the land in the hunting districts was unoccupied

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

public land of the United States. This, as we have said, left
the whole question subject entirely to the will of the United
States, since it provided, in effect, that the right to hunt should
cease the moment the United States parted with the title to
its land in the hunting districts. No restraint was imposed
by the treaty on the power of the United States to sell, although such sale, under the settled policy of the government,
was a result naturally to come from the advance of the white
settlements in the hunting districts to which the treaty referred. And this view of the temporary and precarious nature of the right reserved, in the hunting districts, is manifest
by the act of Congress creating the Yellowstone Park Reservation, for it was subsequently carved out of what constituted
the hunting districts at the time of the adoption of the treaty,
and is a clear indication of the sense of Congress on the subject. Act of March 1, 1872, c. 24, 17 Stat. 32; act of May
7, 1894, c. 72, 28 Stat. 73. The construction which would
affix to the language of the treaty any other meaning than
that which we have above indicated would necessarily imply
that Congress had violated the faith of the government and
defrauded the Indians by proceeding immediately to forbid
hunting in a large portion of the Territory, where it is now
asserted there was a contract right to kill game, created by
the treaty in favor of the Indians.
The argument, now advanced, in favor of the continued
existence of the right to hunt over the land mentioned in the
treaty, after it had become subject to state authority, admits
that the privilege would cease. by the mere fact that the
United States disposed of its title to any of the land, although
such disposition, when made to an individual, would give him
no authority over game, and yet that the privilege continued
when the United States bad called into being a sovereign
State, a necessary incident of whose authority was the complete power to regulate the killing of game within its borders.
This argument indicates at once the conflict between the right
to hunt in the unoccupied lands, within the hunting districts,
and the assertion of the power to continue the exercise of the
privilege in question in the State of Wyoming in defiance

WARD v. RACE HORSE.
Opinion of the Court.

of its laws. That "a treaty may supersede a prior act of
Congress, and an act of Congress supersede a prior treaty,"
is elementary. Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S.
698; The Ch4erokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616. In the last case
it was held that a law of Congress imposing a tax on tobacco,
if in conflict with a prior treaty with the Cherokees, was
paramount to the treaty. Of course the settled rule undoubtedly is that repeals by implication are not favored, and will
not be held to exist if there be any other reasonable construction. Cove v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682, and authorities there cited.
But in ascertaining whether both statutes can be maintained
it is not to be considered that any possible theory, by which
both can be enforced, must be adopted, but only that repeal
by implication must be held not to have taken place if there
be a reasonable construction, by which both laws can coexist
consistently with the intention of Congress. United States v.
Sixty-seven Packages .Dry Goods, 17 Blow. 85; District of
Columbia v. Huton, 143 U. S. 18 ; Frost v. "Wenie,157 U. S.
46. The act which admitted Wyoming into the Union, as we
have said, expressly declared that that State should have all
the powers of the other States of the Union, and made no
reservation whatever in favor of the Indians. These provisions alone considered would be in conflict with the treaty if
it was so construed as to allow the Indians to seek out every
unoccupied piece of government land and thereon disregard
and violate the state law, passed in the undoubted exercise
of its municipal authority. But the language of the act
admitting Wyoming into the Union, which recognized her
coequal rights, was merely declaratory of the general rule.
In Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, (1845,) the controversy
was as to the validity of a patent from the United States to
lands situate in Alabama, which at the date of the formation
of that State were part of the shore of the Mobile River
between high and low water mark. It was held that the
shores of navigable waters and the soil under them were not
granted by the Constitution to the United States, and hence
the jurisdiction exercised thereover by the Federal government, before the formation of the new State, was held tern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

porarily and in trust for the new State to be thereafter created, and that such State when created, by virtue of its being,
possessed the same rights and jurisdiction as had the original States. And, replying to an argument based upon the
assumption that the United States had acquired the whole
of Alabama from Spain, .the court observed that the United
States would then have held it subject to the Constitution
and laws of its own government. The court declared, p. 229,
that to refuse to concede to Alabama sovereignty and jurisdiction over all the territory within her limits would be
to "deny that Alabama has been admitted into the Union
on an equal footing with the original States." The same
principles were applied in Louisian v. Fir8t Municipality,
3 How. 589.
In Withers v. Buckley, 20 How. 84, (1857,) it was held that
a statute of Mississippi creating commissioners for a river
within the State, and prescribing their powers and duties, was
within the legitimate and essential powers of the State. In
answer to the contention that the statute conflicted with the
act of Congress which authorized the people of Mississippi
Territory to form a constitution, in that it was inconsistent
with the provision in the act that "the navigable rivers and
waters leading into the same shall be common highways, and
forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the State of Mississippi as to other citizens of the United States," the court said
(p. 92):
"In considering this act of Congress of March 1, 1817,it is
unnecessary to institute any examination or criticism as to its
legitimate meaning, or operation, or binding authority, farther
than to affirm that it could have no effect to restrict the new
State in any of its necessary attributes as an independent
sovereign government, nor to inhibit or diminish its perfect
equality with the other members of the confederacy with
which it was to be associated. These conclusions follow from
the very nature and objects of the confederacy, from the language of the constitution adopted by the States, and from the
rule of interpretation pronounced by this court in the case
of Pollard'sLee v. Hagan, 3 How. 223."

WARD v. RACE HORSE.
Opinion of the Court.

A like ruling was made in EscanabaCompany v. Chicago,107
U. S. 678, (1882,) where provisions of the ordinance of 1787
were claimed to operate to deprive the State of Illinois of
the power to authorize the construction of bridges over navigable rivers within the State. The court, through Mr. Justice Field, said (p. 683):
"But the States have full power to regulate within their
limits matters of internal police, including in that general
designation whatever will promote the peace, comfort, convenience and prosperity, of their people."
And it was further added (p. 688):
"Whatever the limitation upon her powers as a government
whilst in a territorial condition, whether from the ordinance
of 1787 or the legislation of Congress, it ceased to have any
operative force, except as voluntarily adopted by her, after she
became a State of the Union. On her admission she at once
became entitled to and possessed of all the rights of dominion
and sovereignty which belonged to the original States. She
was admitted, and could be admitted, only on the same footing with them. . . . Equality of the constitutional right
and power is the condition of all the States of the Union, old
and new."
In Cardwell v. American Bridge Company, 113 U. S. 205,
(1884r,) Eacanaba Conpany v. Chicago, 8vlpra, was followed,
and it was held that a clause in the act admitting California
into the Union, which provided that the navigable waters
within the State shall be free to citizens of the United States,
in no way impaired the power which the State could exercise
over the subject if the clause in question had no existence.
Mr. Justice Field concluded the opinion of the court as follows (p. 212):
"The act admitting California declares that she is 'admitted
into the Union on an equal footing with the original States in
all respect whatever. She was not, therefore, shorn by the
clause as to navigable waters within her limits of any of the
powers which the original States possessed over such waters
within their limits."
A like conclusion was applied in the case of Wilamette Iron
VOL. CLX[-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1, where the act admitting the
State of Oregon into the Union was construed.
Determining, by the light of these principles, the question
whether the provision of the treaty giving the right to hunt
on unoccupied lands of the United States in the hunting districts is repealed, in so far as the lands in such districts are
now embraced within the limits of the State of Wyoming,
it becomes plain that the repeal results from the conflict between the treaty and the act admitting that State into the
Union. The two facts, the privilege conferred and the act of
admission, are irreconcilable in the sense that the two under
no reasonable hypothesis can be construed as coexisting.
The power of all the States to regulate the killing of game
within their borders will not be gainsaid, yet, if the treaty
applies to the unoccupied land of the United States in the
State of Wyoming, that State would be bereft of such power,
since every isolated piece of land belonging to the United
States as a private owner, so long as it continued to be unoccupied land, would be exempt in this regard from the
authority of the State. Wyoming, then, will have been admitted into the Union, not as an equal member, but as one
shorn of a legislative power vested in all the other States
of the Union, a power resulting from the fact of statehood
and incident to its plenary existence. Nor need we stop to
consider the argument advanced at bar, that as the United
States, under the authority delegated to it by the Constitution in relation to Indian tribes, has a right to deal with that
subject, therefore it has the power to exempt from the operation of state game laws each particular piece of land, owned
by it in private ownership within a State, for nothing in this
case shows that this power has been exerted by Congress.
The enabling act declares that the State of Wyoming is admitted on equal terms with the other States, and this declaration, which is simply an expression of the general rule, which
presupposes that States, when admitted into the Union, are
endowed with powers and attributes equal in scope to those
enjoyed by the States already admitted, repels any presumption that in this particular case Congress intended to admit

WARD v. RACE HORSE.

Opinion of the Court.

the State of Wyoming with diminished governmental authority. The silence of the act admitting Wyoming into the
Union, as to the reservation of rights in favor of the Indians,
is given increased significance by the fact that Congress in
creating the Territory expressly reserved such rights. Nor
would this case be affected by conceding that Congress, during the existence of the Territory, had full authority in the
exercise of its treaty making power to charge the Territory,
or the land therein, with such contractual burdens as were
deemed best, and that when they were imposed on a Territory it would be also within the power of Congress to continue them in the State, on its admission into the Union.
Here the enabling act not only contains no expression of the
intention of Congress to continue the burdens in question in
the State, but, on the contrary, its intention not to do so is
conveyed by the express terms of the act of admission. Indeed, it may be further, for the sake of the argument, conceded- that where there are rights created by Congress, during
the existence of a Territory, which are of such a nature as to
imply their perpetuity, and the consequent purpose of Congress to continue them in the State, after its admission, such
continuation will, as a matter of construction, be upheld, although the enabling act does not expressly so direct. Here
the nature of the right created gives rise to no such implication of continuance, since, by its terms, it shows that the burden imposed on the Territory was essentially perishable and
intended to be of a limited duration. Indeed, the whole argument of the defendant in error rests on the assumption that
there was a perpetual right conveyed by the treaty, when in
fact the privilege given was temporary and precarious. But
the argument goes further than this, since it insists that,
although by the treaty the hunting privilege was to cease
whenever the United States parted merely with the title to
any of its lands, yet that privilege was to continue although
the United States parted with its entire authority over the
capture and killing of game. Nor is there force in the suggestion that the cases of the Kaw8 usndian8, 5 Wall. 737, and
the Ne~w York Indiaw, 5 Wall. 761, are in conflict with these

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

views. The first case (that of the Kansas Indians) involved
the right of the State to tax the land of Indians owned under
patents issued to them in consequence of treaties made with
their respective tribes. The court held that the power of the
State to tax was expressly excluded by the enabling act. The
second case (that of the New York Indians) involved the right
of the State to tax land embraced in an Indian reservation,
which existed prior to the adoption of the Constitution of the
United States. Thus these two cases involved the authority
of the State to exert its taxing power on lands embraced
within an Indian reservation, that is to say, the authority of
the State to extend its powers to lands not within the scope
of its jurisdiction, whilst this case involves a question of
whether where no reservation exists a State can be stripped
by implication and deduction of an essential attribute of its
governmental existence. Doubtless the rule that treaties
should be so construed as to uphold the sanctity of the public
faith ought not to be departed from. But that salutary rule
should not be made an instrument for violating the public
faith by distorting the words of a treaty, in order to imply
that it conveyed rights wholly inconsistent with its language
and in conflict with an act of Congress, and also destructive
of the rights of one of the States. To refer to the limitation
contained in the territorial act and disregard the terms of the
enabling act would be to destroy and obliterate the express
will of Congress.
For these reasons the judgment below was erroneous, and
must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case must be remanded to the court beow
with directions to discharge the writ and remand the
prisonerto the custody of the 8herijf, and it is so ordered.
Mm.

JusToic

BRowN dissenting.

As the opinion of the court seems to me th imply and to
sanction a distinct repudiation by Congress of a treaty with
the Bannock Indians, I am unable to give my assent to it.
The facts are in a nutshell.

WARD v. RACE HORSE
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

On July 3, 186S, the United States entered into a treaty,
15 Stat. 673, with the Shoshonees and Bannock tribes of
Indians, by which the latter agreed to accept and settle upon
certain reservations, and the former agreed that the Indians
should have "the right to hunt on the unoccupied lands of
the United States, so long as game may be found thereon,
and so long as peace subsists among the whites and Indians
on the borders of the hunting districts."
A few days thereafter, and on July 25, 1868, Congress
passed an act "to provide a temporary government for the
Territory of Wyoming," 15 Stat. 178, within which the Bannock reservation was situated, with a proviso "that nothing
in this act shall be construed to impair the rights of person
or property now pertaining to the Indians in said Territory,
so long as such rights shall remain unextinguished by treaty
between the United States and such Indians."
So far as it appears, the above treaty still remains in force,
but the position of the majority of the court is that the admission of the Territory of Wyoming as a State abrogated it
pro tanto, and put the power of the Indians to hunt on the
unoccupied lands of the United States completely at the
mercy of the state government.
Conceding at once that it is within the power of Congress
to abrogate a treaty, or rather that the exercise of such power
raises an issue, which the other party to the treaty is alone
competent to deal with, it will be also conceded that the abrogation of a public treaty ought not to be inferred from
doubtful language, but that the intention of Congress to repudiate its obligation ought clearly to appear. As we said
in Eauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483, "where a treaty
admits of two constructions, one restricted as to the rights,
that may be claimed under it, and the other liberal, the latter
is to be preferred. Such is the settled rule of this court."
See also Chew rleong v. United StaMt, 112 U. S.536, 549.
It appears from the first article that this treaty was entered
into at the close of a war between the two contracting parties;
that the Indians agreed to accept certain reservations of land,
and the United States, on its part, "solemnly agreed" that no

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

persons, with certain designated exceptions, "shall ever be
permitted to pass over, settle upon or reside in the territory
described in this article for the use of said Indians, and
they shall have the right to hunt on the unoccupied
lands of the United States so long as game may be found
thereon, and so long as peace subsists between the whites and
the Indians on the borders of the hunting districts." The fact
that the Territory of Wyoming would ultimately be admitted
as a State must have been anticipated by Congress, yet the
right to hunt was assured to the Indians, not until this should
take place, but so long as game may be found upon the lands,
and so long as peace should subsist on the borders of the hunting districts. Not only this, but the Territory was created with
the distinct reservation that the rights of the Indians should
not be construed to be impaired so long as they remained
unextinguished by further treaty. The right to hunt was not
one secured to them for sporting purposes, but as a means of
subsistence. It is a fact so well known that we may take judicial notice of it, that the Indians have never been an industrial
people; that even their agriculture was of the rudest description, and that their chief reliance for food has been upon the
chase.
The right to hunt on the unoccupied lands of the
United States was a matter of supreme importance to them,
and as a result of being deprived of it they can hardly escape
becoming a burden upon the public. It is now proposed to
take it away from them, not because they have violated the
treaty, but because the State of Wyoming desires to preserve
its game. Not doubting for a moment that the preservation
of game is a matter of great importance, I regard the preservation of the public faith, even to the helpless Indian, as a.
matter of much greater importance. If the position of the
court be sound, this treaty might have been abrogated the next
day by the admission of Wyoming as a State, and what might
have been done in this case might be done in the case of every
Indian tribe within our boundaries. There is no limit to the
right of the State, which may in its discretion prohibit the
killing of all game, and thus practically deprive the Indians
of their principal means of subsistence.

WARD v. RACE HORSE.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

I am not impressed with the theory that the act admitting Wyoming into the Union upon an equal footing with the
original States authorized them to impair or abrogate rights
previously granted by the sovereign power by treaty, or to
discharge itself of burdens which the United States had
assumed before her admission into the Union. In the cases
of the Eansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737, we held that a State,
when admitted into the Union, was bound to respect an
exemption from taxation which had been previously granted
to tribes of Indians within its borders, because, as the court
said, the State of Kansas "accepted this status when she
accepted the act admitting her into the Union. Conferring
rights and privileges on these Indians cannot affect their situation, which can only be changed by treaty stipulation, or a
voluntary abandonment of their tribal organization. As long
as the United States recognizes their national character they
are under the protection of the treaties and laws of Congress,
and their property is withdrawn from the operation of state
laws."
It is true that the act admitting the State of Kansas into
the Union contained a proviso similar to that in the act erecting a government for the Territory of Wyoming, viz.: "That
nothing contained in this said constitution respecting the
boundaries of said State shall be construed to impair the
rights of person or property now pertaining to the Indians of
said Territory, so long as such rights shall remain unextinguished by treaty with such Indians." In this particular the
cases differ from each other only in the fact that the proviso
in the one case is inserted in the act creating the Territory,
and in the other in the act admitting the Territory as
State; and unless we are to say that the act admitting the
Territory of Wyoming as a State absolved it from its liabilities as a Territory, it would seem that the treaty applied as
much in the one case as in the other. But however this may
be, the proviso in the territorial act exhibited a clear intention on the part of Congress to continue in force the stipulation of the treaty, and there is nothing in the act admitting
the Territory as a State which manifests an intention to repu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Decree of the Court.

diate them. I think, therefore, the rights of these Indians
could only be extinguished by purchase, or by a new arrangement with the United States.
I understand the words "unoccupied lands of the United
States" to refer not only to lands which have not been
patented, but also to those which have not been settled upon,
fenced or otherwise appropriated to private ownership, but I
am quite unable to see how the admission of a Territory into
the Union changes their character from that of unoccupied to
that of occupied lands.
MR. JusnmE BnnE
w,

not having heard the argument, takes

no part in this decision.

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
ORIGInAL.
Argued April 27, 1896.-Decided May 18, 1896.

-

The report of the commissioners appointed October 21, 1895, 159 U. S.
275, to run the disputed boundary line between Indiana and Kentucky, is
confirmed.

THE commissioners appointed on the 21st day of October,
1895, 159 U. S. 275, to run the disputed boundary line between
the States of Indiana and of Kentucky, reported as stated
below. The State of Kentucky filed exceptions to the'report.
The State of Indiana moved to confirm it.
.Mr. WHlian A. Yetcham, Attorney General of the State
of Indiana, for the motion.
Mr. Richard H. Cunningham opposing.
MR. CHEF JUSTIo

FuLLER announced the decree of the

court.
This cause came on to be heard on the report of Gustavus
V. Menzies, Gaston M. Alves and Amos Stickney, commis-

