SALINA STOCK CO. v. SALINA CREEK CO.

109

Statement of the Case.

particular in which the accused was deprived of any right or
immunity secured to him under the.laws or Constitution of
the United States, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana is accordingly

Afi"med.

SALINA STOCK COMPANY v. SALINA CREEK
IRRIGATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 191.

Submitted March 81,1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

Without denying its power to pass upon a judgment of the Supreme
Court of a Territory on a question of practice, in an equity case, this
court is not inclined to do so unless it can perceive that injustice has
been done.

THE Salina Creek Irrigation Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the Territory of Utah for the purpose
of controlling and regulating the waters of Salina Creek, in
that Territory, and of furnishing and distributing the same
to and among its stockholders, filed its complaint in the District Court of the First Judicial District of the said Territory
on February 11, 1890, against the Salina Stock Company, a
Utah corporation engaged in the business of stock raising
upon a ranch in Sevier County, about twenty-two miles east
of the town of Salina, in that county, and Elwin A. Ireland,
alleging that the stockholders of the plaintiff company were
owners in severalty of lands in the said county aggregating
eighteen hundred and sixty-two acres, situated at or near
Salina, which lands were valuable for agricultural purposes,
but would not produce crops without irrigation; that the
greater part of Salina Creek, which flowed in a westerly
direction to Salina and to the said lands, was supplied by two
branches known, respectively, as Yogo Creek and Neoche
Creek; that for more than fifteen years prior to the commis.sion of the injuries complained of, the plaintiff, its stock-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

holders and grantors, had been diverting and appropriating, at
and near Salina, all the waters of Salina Creek, (the same, as
alleged, being otherwise unappropriated,) and had been using
the same for domestic purposes and for irrigating their lands,
and that for these uses all the water of said creek, when the
flow thereof was uninterrupted, was necessary and not more
than sufficient. It was averred that at frequent times within
the six years next preceding the filing of the complaint the
defendants, by means of dams and ditche' by them constructed, diverted large quantities of the waters of Yogo and
INeoche Creeks, and in the years 1888 and 1889 so diverted
nearly all the waters thereof, and thereby greatly diminished
the flow of water in Salina Creek; that these acts had been
donewithout the consent of the plaintiff and greatly to the
loss and damage of its stockholders, and that the defendants
threatened to continue so to divert the said waters, and would
so do, to the great and irreparable injury and loss of the
plaintiff and its stockholders, unless restrained by injunction.
The plaintiff asked, therefore, that the defendants be perpetually enjoined from diverting, appropriating or in any manner
interfering with the waters of Yogo and leoche Creeks.
The defendants filed their answers on Mfarch 27, 1890,
averring therein that for more than ten years then last past
they and their grantors had been entitled to the use, for agricultural, domestic and stock raising purposes, of all the waters
of Yogo and Neoche Creeks, by virtue of actual diversion
thereof and continuous appropriation of the same for the said
purposes during the said period, and were so entitled at the
time of the filing of their answer, and that neither the plaintiff company nor its stockholders had any rights with relation
to the waters of the said two creeks. They asked for a decree
quieting their title.
The court tried the case without a jury, and subsequently
filed its finding of facts, which was as follows:
"That the said waters of Neoche and Yogo Creeks flow
into and mingle with the waters of Salina Creek, in Sevier
County, Utah, and flow down through the bed of said last
mentioned creek to and past the lands of the stockholders

SALINA STOCK CO. v. SATLNA CREEK CO.

111

Statement of the Case.

of said plaintiff corporation; that in and during the years
1871, 1872 and 1873 the said stockholders of the plaintiff
corporation, their predecessors and grantors, diverted from
the natural bed or channel of SaUna Creek below the confluence of Yogo and lNeoche Creeks with Salina Creek, and used
and appropriated upon lands adjacent thereto, all the waters
of said Salina Creek during the whole of the period from the
15th day of June until the 1st day of November of each and
every year, and that during the period from the 1st day of
November until the 1st day of April following the water was
by said stockholders, their predecessors and grantors, used for
domestic and culinary purposes and for the watering of stock,
and that during the period from April 1 until June 15 only
a small part of the waters of said creek were used. That all
of said water was so, as aforesaid, diverted, used and appropriated for culinary, domestic and agricultural purposes, and was
necessarily consumed in the households and in the watering
of stock and upon agricultural crops. That the waters of
said creeks have been continuously since said appropriation
so made as aforesaid up to the time of the filing of the complaint herein and are now so diverted, used and appropriated.
"That during the months of April, May and one half of the
month of June the waters of said Neoche and Yogo Creeks
are high and the flow thereof is greater than is necessary for
or than has been used or appropriated by plaintiff corporation
or its stockholders, and that the waters of said creeks which
were so unused and unappropriated by said plaintiff or its
stockholders have been used and appropriated by defendants.
That whatever rights in and to the waters of said creeks are
owned or held by the said defendants, the same are secondary
and servient to the rights of plaintiff.
"That before the commencement of this action the stockholders of plaintiff corporation by their several deeds in writing conveyed to plaintiff corporation all their several rights,
titles and interests in and to the waters of Keoche and Yogo
Creeks in trust, as hereinbefore stated, and the plaintiff corporation is now the legal owner and holder of said waters and
of the rights therein and has the primary right to use control

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

and divert the same in the manner and to the extent as hereinbefore set forth."
The court also filed its conclusions of law, and these were
embodied, in effect, in the following decree, entered February
14, 1891:
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the plaintiff,
Salina Creek Irrigation Company, is entitled to the use and
appropriation of all the waters flowing, or to flow through,
or in those certain creeks known as Yogo and Keoche Creeks,
in Sevier County, Utah Territory, during the period from the
15th day of June to the 1st day of November in each and
every year; that the said plaintiff is also entitled to the use
and appropriation, for culinary and domestic purposes and for
the purpose of watering animals, of so much of the waters of
said creeks as it may need or require to use during the period
from the 1st day of November to the 1st day of April following of each and every year, and that it is entitled to the use
and appropriation, for culinary and domestic use, and for the
watering of stock and for agricultural purposes, of water from
said creeks during the period from April 1st to the 15th of
June of each and every year, and that during the last named
period the said defendants are also entitled to the use of a
portion of the waters of said creek; and it is further ordered,
adjudged and decreed that the said defendants, Salina Stock
Company and E. A. Ireland, and each of them, and their and
each of their servants, agents and employ~s, be, and they are
hereby, perpetually enjoined and forbidden from in any manner using or diverting any of the waters of said Yogo and
Neoche Creeks during the period from the 15th day of June
until the 1st day of November in each and every year, so as
in any manner or to any extent to injure the quality or lessen
the flow of said streams or either of them into Salina Creek;
and said defendants and each of them are further restrained
and enjoined from in any manner diverting, using or appropriating the waters of said creeks during the period from the
1st day of November until the 1st day of April following of
each and every year so as in any manner to deprive the said
plaintiff corporation or its stockholders of the use of sufficient

SALINA STOCK CO. v. SALINA CREEK CO.

113

Statement of the Case.

of the waters of said creeks for culinary and domestic purposes, and for the watering of stock. And said defendants
and each of them are further perpetually restrained and enjoined from in any manner using the waters of said creeks
or either of them during any portion of the year or at all so
as in any manner to lessen, injure or deteriorate the natural
quality thereof."
The defendants moved for a new trial, and their motion having been overruled, they appealed to the Supreme Court of the
said Territory, assigning as error, among other things, that
there was no evidence to justify the finding and decree of the
trial court, and that the decree was so uncertain that the rights
of neither of the parties could be ascertained under it.
The said Supreme Court heard and decided the case, and .on
September 12, 1892, filed its opinion therein, which, after discussing the evidence as it appeared in the defendants' statement
on motion for a new trial, observed that it was shown thereby
that in the year 1878 the defendants or their grantors diverted
a portion of the waters of Yogo and leoche Creeks several
miles above Salina, and continued such diversion during the
spring, summer and fall of each year up to the time this
action was commenced, for stock raising and culinary purposes, and for the purpose of irrigating land on those tributaries; that those two streams furnished about one third of
the waters of Salina Creek, and emptied into it above the
land irrigated by the plaintiff; that although a number of the
grantors of the plaintiff company were residents of Salina and
appropriators of water from Salina Creek prior to the time of
the appropriation by the defendants' grantors of the waters
of Yogo and Neoche Creeks, no specific rights with relation
to the waters of Salina Creek existed in all the grantors of
the plaintiff prior to the time when the defendants or their
grantors appropriated water from Yogo and leoche Creeks;
that the plaintiffs grantors did not make appropriation of all
the waters of Salina Creek prior to the time when the defendants' grantors appropriated nearly all the waters of Yogo
and Neoche Creeks in 1878. The opinion then proceeded as
follows:
VOL. CLXIII-8

OCTOBER TERIV, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

"Without entering into a discussion of the other questions
presented by the record, we are satisfied from the facts shown
that the appellants [defendants] are entitled to the use of
more water than is awarded them in the decree of tle court
below and that said decree as well as the findings of fact
should be modified and made more certain so as to settle
the whole controversy between the parties; settle it so that it
may be ascertained with reasonable certainty how much the
court has decreed in favor of either party without a resort
to further proceedings. This should be done upon the proofs
taken in the case without the necessity of awarding a new
trial. The respondent [plaintiff] should be entitled to the use
and appropriation of all the waters flowing or to flow through
or in Yogo and Neoche Creeks during the period from and
including the fifteenth day of June to the first day of November in each year, except that during twenty-four hours of Monday of each week during that period the appellants should
have the exclusive use of one half of the waters flowing
through Yogo Creek, and that during twenty-four hours of
Friday of each week during that period the appellants should
have the exclusive use of one half of the water flowing through
Neoche Creek for farming, grazing, stock raising and culinary
purposes, and that during all such period the appellants should
also have the right to use the waters of both such creeks as may
be necessary for watering stock and for culinary purposes only,
and that from and including the first day of November to the
fifteenth day of June in each and every year the said respondent should be entitled to the use and appropriation of such
waters of Yogo and Neoche Creeks as it may need for culinary
and domestic purposes and for watering stock and agricultural
purposes, not exceeding one half of the waters flowing through
such creeks, and that during the same period last stated the
appellants shall be entitled to use and appropriate such waters
of Yogo and Neoche Creeks as it may need for the same purpose, not exceeding one half of the waters flowing through
such creeks, and each party should be enjoined from interfering with the rights of the other under such decree."
The court entered a judgment remanding the case to the

SALINA STOCK CO. v. SALINA CREEK CO.

115

Opinion of the Court.

said District Court with directions to modify the decree and
findings therein in conformity with the foregoing opinion.
The Salina Stock Company and Elwin A. Ireland (defendants in the District Court and appellants in the said Supreme
Court) thereupon appealed to this court, alleging that the said
Supreme Court erred in vacating the findings of the District
Court, and rendering judgment on the evidence taken at the
trial below.
.r.

. W. Bennett for appellant.

-Mr. J. L. .RawlZn8 for appellee.
MR. JusTioE SHms, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The single question presented in this record is the regularity
of the action of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah
in rendering judgment as follows:
"This cause having been heretofore argued and submitted,
and the court being sufficiently advised thereon, it is now here
considered, ordered and adjudged that the judgment of the
District Court therein be and the same is hereby modified, and
this cause is remanded back to said District Court, with directions to modify the decree and findings therein in conformity
with the opinion of this court."
That portion of the opinion of the Supreme Court which
was particularly directed to a modification of the decree of
the District Court was in the following terms:
"Without entering into a discussion of the other questions
presented by the record, we are satisfied from the facts shown
that the appellants are entitled to the use of more water than
is awarded them in the decree of the court below, and that
the decree of the court below, as well as the findings of facts,
should be modified and made more certain, so as to settle the
whole controversy between the parties; settle it so that it
may be ascertained with reasonable certainty how much the
court has decreed in favor of either party, without a resort to
further proceedings. This should be done upon the proofs

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

taken in the case without the necessity of awarding a new
trial."
Whether this decree was so far final as to be the subject of
an appeal to this court might be questionable. But neither
of the parties have suggested such a question, and we shall
assume that, reading the decree in the light of the opinion, it
may be regarded, if unreversed, as a final disposition of the
controversy.
We are therefore asked to reverse a final decree of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, in an equity case, on
a question of practice. The act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, 18
Stat. 27, provides that, on appeal from a territorial court,
instead of the evidence at large, a statement of the facts of
the case in the nature of a special verdict, and also the rulings
of the court on the admission or rejection of evidence when
excepted to, shall be made and certified by the court below,
and transmitted to the Supreme Court, together with the
transcript of the proceedings and judgment or decree. No
such statement is given us in this record, nor are any of the
rulings of the trial court, in the admission or rejection of evidence, complained of. But the sole contention is that it was
not competent for the Supreme Court to modify the findings
of fact of the court below and enter a judgment on the facts
as thus modified -that, if dissatisfied with the findings, the
Supreme Court should have sent the cause back for a new
trial. Several California cases are cited, in which it was held
that when the findings are erroneous it is not the province of
the Supreme Court, on appeal, to look into the evidence with
a view to reform the findings, and then to enter a judgment
in accordance with what the findings ought to have been, but
that, in such a case, the Supreme Court will reverse the judgment and remand the cause for a new trial.
While it is true that the Code of Civil Procedure of California is in similar terms to that of Utah, it does not follow that
the courts of the latter will be regulated by decisions of California courts in construing the provisions of the code.
Section 3006, vol. 2, Compiled Laws, embraced in the Utah
Code of Civil Procedure, is as follows: "The court may re-

SALINA STOCK CO. v. SAINA CREEK CO.

117

Opinion of the Court.

verse, affirm or modify any order or judgment appealed from,
and may direct the proper judgment or order to be entered,
or direct a new trial, or further proceedings to be had."
In the case before us the Supreme Court of Utah has practically interpreted the provision as authorizing it to modify
the findings of the court below, and to make a corresponding
change in the judgment, without awarding a new trial. Those
modifications of the findings and judgment were favorable to
the defendants in the trial court, who took the appeal to the
Supreme Court of the Territory. Yet they are the parties
who have appealed to us to say that, instead of amending the
decree in the manner it did, the court should have reversed
the judgment, and directed a new trial.
A somewhat similar question was raised in the case of
Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610, which was likewise an ampeal from the Supreme Court of Utah. There the Supreme
Court of the Territory set aside the findings of the trial court,
and directed a decree on the evidence, at the same time making
its own findings from the evidence; and this court refused to
disturb the decree of the Supreme Court, saying: "Without
undertaking to decide what would be the proper practice in an
ordinary civil case when the judgment is reversed, and a new
trial was refused in the District Court, we are clearly of the
opinion that in a suit like this, when all the evidence is before
the Supreme Court that could be considered by the District
Court if the case should be sent back, it is proper for the
Supreme Court itself to state the facts established by the evidence, and render the judgment which ought to have been
rendered by the District Court."
Gray v. Howe, 108 U. S. 12, was likewise an appeal from the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah. There the Supreme
Court on appeal had reversed the judgment of a District
Court, set aside the findings of that court, and without itself
making a new statement of facts in the nature of a special
verdict entered a final judgment; and this court held that
such record presented nothing for our examination, and that
consequently the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory must be affirmed on appeal.

OCTOBER TERM-,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

It has been frequently held that the authority of this court
on appeal from the Supreme Court of a Territory is limited to
determining whether the court's findings of fact support its
judgment or decree, and whether there is any error in rulings
duly excepted to in the admission or rejection of evidence.
San Pedro Company v. United States, 146 U. S. 120; .Iarnmoth Xining Co. v. SaU Lake .Machine Co., 151 U. S. 447,
450; idaho &f Oregon Land Co. v. Braduryj,132 U. S. 509,
514; Hlaws v. Victoria Copper Mining Co., 160 U. S. 303,
312. Without denying the authority of this court to find error
in the judgment of the Supreme Court of a Territory, even
in passing on a question of practice, we certainly should not
feel inclined to exercise such authority unless we were able to
perceive that injustice had been done; and as this record presents us with no statement of the facts to enable us to determine whether the facts found were sufficient to sustain the
judgment rendered, and with no exceptions taken to rulings
in the admission or rejection of evidence, there is nothing here
which we can examine. It follows that the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah must be and is
.Affirmed.

BARNITZ v. BEVERLY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 863. Submitted April 18, 1896.-Decided May 18, 1696.

A4 state statute which authorizes the redemption of property sold upon
foreclosure of a mortgage, where no right of redemption previously existed, or which extends the period of redemption beyond the time formerly allowed, cannot constitutionally apply to a sale under a mortgage
executed before its passage.

ON November 1, 1885, George A. Kirtland executed to
Martha Barnitz several promissory notes, covering a principal
debt of $1500 and interest, payable semi-annually for five
years, at the rate of eight per cent per annum, and after ma-

