MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Syllabus.

Y. S. 645. The question whether a statute of the Cherokee
nation which was not repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States or in conflict with any treaty or law of the
United States had been repealed by another statute of that
nation, and the determination of what was the existing law
of the Cherokee nation as to the constitution of the grand
jury, were solely matters within the jurisdiction of the courts
of that nation, and the decision of such a question in itself
necessarily involves no infraction of the Constitution of the
United States. Such has been the decision of this court with
reference to similar contentions arising upon an indictment
and conviction in a state court. In re Duncan, 139 U. S.
449. The ruling in that case is equally applicable to the contentions in this particular arising from the record before us.
The counsel for the appellant has very properly abandoned
any claim to relief because of alleged errors occurring subsequent to the finding of the indictment. As to the point raised
in reference to the date of the commission of the offence as
stated in the indictnient, the record as corrected shows that
the error in question did not exist. It is, therefore, unnecessary to notice the argument based upon the assumption that
the indictment charged the offence to have been committed
subsequent to the finding of the true bill.
The judgment is
Afflne.
ME. JusTIC HAELA" dissented.

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIAN?A.
No. 89. Submitted October 25, 1694. -Decided

May 25, 1896.

A., an alien, sold to B. in New Orleans thirteen bonds of the State of Louislana, delivered them to him, and received from him payment for them in
full. Both parties contemplated the purchase and delivery of valid and
VOL. CLXiii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
lawful obligations of the State, and both regarded the bonds so delivered
as such valid and lawful obligations. It turned out that the bonds were
absolutely void, having never been lawfully put into circulation. B.
thereupon sued A. in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, to recover the purchase money paid for
them. Held,
(1) That as the sale was a Louisiana contract, the rights and obligations of the parties must be determined by the laws of that State;
(2) That by the civil law, which prevails in Louisiana, warranty, whilst
not of the essence, is yet of the nature of the contract of sale,
and is implied in every such contract, unless there be a stipulation to the contrary;
(3) That by the rule of the common law, both in England and in the
United States the doctrine Is universally recognized that where
commercial paper is sold without indorsement or without express
assumption of liability on the paper itself, the contract of sale
and the obligations which arise from it, as between vendor and
vendee, are governed by the common law, relating to the sale of
goods and chattels; and that the undoubted rule is that In such a
sale the obligation of the vendor is not restricted to the mere
question of forgery vel non, but depends upon whether he has
delivered that which he contracted to sell, this rule being designated, in England, as a condition of the principal contract, as to
the essence and substance of the thing agreed to be sold, and in
this country being generally termed an implied warranty of identity of the thing sold;
(4) That whilst the civil law enforces in the contract of sale generally
the broadest obligation of warranty, it has so narrowed it, when
dealing with credits and incorporeal rights, as to confine It to the
title of the seller and to the existence of the credit sold, and, e
converso, the common law, which restricts warranty within a
narrow compass, virtually imposes the same duty by broadening
the warranty as regards personal property so as to impose the
obligation on the vendor to deliver the thing sold as a condition
of the principal contract or by implication of warranty as to the
identity of the thing sold; and thus, by these processes of reason
the two great systems, whilst apparently divergent in principle,
practically work substantially to the same salutary conclusions;
(6) That B. is entitled to recover the sum so paid by him, with interest
from the time of judicial demand.

PLAINTIFFS below (plaintiffs in error here) commenced their
action to recover the sum of $8383.75, with interest from
judicial demand, the facts averred in the petition being sub-,
stantially as follows : In February, 1889, the defendant sold
to plaintiffs thirteen bonds of the State of Louisiana, which

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Statement of the Case.

were described in and annexed to the petition; that the price
paid for these bonds was the amount sought to be recovered,
and the bonds were (we quote from the petition) "sold and
delivered to your petitioners as good, valid and legal bonds of
the State of Louisiana.

.

.

.

Petitioners aver that the said

Richards delivered to them the above described bonds
as good and legal bonds of the State of Louisiana, and represented them to be such; that petitioners received them as
such, and paid for them the market price for valid bonds, and
held them for several months without any knowledge or suspicion that the bonds were not such as they were represented
to be." The petition then averred that after the sale and delivery of the bonds in September, 1889, it was discovered that
they were not valid, that they had never been lawfully issued
by the State, and were at the time of the sale declared by the
constitution of the State of Louisiana to be null and void, and
that the State through its officials treated them as wholly
invalid. The prayer was, as already stated, for a judgment
for the amount which had been paid as the purchase price of
the bonds.
The answer of the defendant denied all the material allegations contained in the petition, except in so far as the same
were admitted or confessed. It averred that on the day of
the sale, the 27th of February, 1889, the defendant was the
owner of the bonds described in the petition; that they were
payable to bearer, and were on the face thereof bonds and
obligations of the State of Louisiana, and purporting to be
issued under valid acts of the legislature, sanctioned by the
constitution of the State of Louisiana; that when sold to the
plaintiff the bonds were not mature according to their terms,
and were so drawn that the title thereof passed by delivery.
The answer, moreover, averred that the defendant acquired
the bonds long prior to the date of the sale to the plaintiffs,
"by purchase in open market, for a full and valuable consideration in money, before the maturity thereof, in full and
exact good faith, and with no knowledge, suspicion or belief
of any defect in the title or obligation of said bonds or any
outstanding equity relating thereto, to change, modify or

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

destroy the obligation as written and contained in said bonds
severally." After admitting the sale as alleged in the petition
for the price therein stated, the answer declared "that it is
true that at the time of the delivering of said bonds to the
plaintiffs as aforesaid this defendant did represent the same
to be good and legal obligations and bonds of the State of
Louisiana, and believed then and still believes that the same
are in all things valid and legal obligations of the State in the
hands of all good-faith holders thereof, and that it is true, as
stated in said petition, that the plaintiffs received said bonds,
believing the same valid, and paid therefor the full market
value thereof in open market of that day." After making
the admission, "that if the plaintiffs are entitled to recover
anything from this defendant, the amount of such is correctly
stated in the prayer of petition herein," the answer concluded
by the following: "But as to all other matters and obligations set forth and contained in said petition this defendant
specially denies and traverses the same, and avers that the
said several bonds so by him sold and delivered to the said
plaintiffs are, each and all of them, in the hands of said plaintiffs, good, valid, complete and existing obligations of the
State of Louisiana to pay to the said plaintiffs the sums of
money named in said bonds at the time and on the terms and
conditions written in the bonds, and that there is and has been
no breach of warranty of the title thereof by this defendant."
The cause was submitted to the court without the intervention of a jury, the parties having previously entered into a
stipulation in writing, commencing with the following recital:
"That the following shall be taken as the statement of facts
in this cause, and shall stand and be taken as a special verdict
in the cause." The facts embraced in the stipulation relate,
on the one hand, to the sale and the title held by the defendant (the vendor) to the bonds at the time of the sale and the
representations made when the sale took place, and, on the
other hand, to the nature and validity of the bonds sold. As
to the first of these questions the stipulation declares:
"1. The defendant, prior to the sale of the bonds to the
plaintiffs, as averred in the petition, was the bona Jie holder

MEYER j. RICHARDS.
Statement of the Case.

of each and all of the bonds described in said petition, having
acquired each and all of said bonds in open public market for
full market value, with no notice whatsoever of any alleged
vice or alleged illegality of the bonds, and the statements in
that respect, as set forth in defendant's answer herein, are
true.
"2. The defendant so acquired said bonds long before he
or the public knew that it was charged by any person that
said bonds were illegally issued, and the impress of the seal
of the State and the signatures of the several officers of the
State, whose names appeared on said bonds, are each and all
of them genuine and true, and in no manner forgeries."
The facts stated in the stipulation, with reference to the
authority under which the bonds were issued and their validity, we summarize as follows:
Under two acts of Oongress, the one passed March 3, 1827,
c.97, 4 Stat. 244, the other July 2, 1862, c. 130, 12 Stat. 503,
the State of Louisiana received from the United States public
lands to be applied, as directed in the act first mentioned, to
the use of such seminary of learning as the legislature of the
State might direct, and in the other to the establishment and
support of an agricultural and mechanical college. From the
sale of the lands thus received by the State, sums of money
came under its control. These sums to the credit of the two
educational purposes, that is, the seminary and the agricultural and mechanical college, were invested in bonds of the
State of Louisiana, which bonds were held in trust by the
State as the property of the two funds in question.
In 1874 the State of Louisiana, by act No. 3 of the session
of 1874, adopted a general funding plan for all its outstanding
bonds and for certain designated warrants. The law in question provided for the issue of new bonds for the said bonds
and debts at the rate of sixty cents on the dollar of new bonds
for every dollar of fundable debt. The bonds thus provided
to be issued were commonly called consolidated bonds, were
negotiable in form, and were all without reference to the debt
for which they were exchanged, of like tenor, except as to
the serial numbers and amount of the bond, and contained on

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

their face no indication whatever of the particular debt to retire which they were issued. The statement of facts recites
"that the holder or purchaser of such consolidated bonds who

purchased the same in the market had no means of ascertaining for what prior obligation of the State said bonds had been
given in exchange." The execution of the act of 1874 was
confided to a board called the funding board or board of
liquidation. The funding law was ratified by a constitutional
amendment, which hence made that law a part of the constitution of the State of Louisiana.
The board of liquidation, at the request of the proper state
officers, issued consolidated bonds in exchange for the state
bonds held by the State as above stated, in trust for the seminary and the agricultural and mechanical college funds. By
this exchange, the sum of money received by the State from
the proceeds of the land granted by Congress for the two
purposes aforesaid was curtailed forty per cent, as the bonds
issued to replace those previously held were in amount equal
to only sixty per cent of the retired bonds. The consolidated
bonds which were thus issued to retire those theretofore held
for account of the two trust funds went into the hands of the
state treasurer for the benefit of the respective funds, and
these bonds bore on their face no indication of the debt for
which they were issued; indeed, they were in form like any
other of the bonds issued under the act of 1874.
By the terms of an ordinance adopted by a constitutional
convention held in the State of Louisiana in 1879, (which
ordinance was approved by the same popular vote which ratified the constitution,) it was provided: "That the interest on
the consolidated bonds of the State be reduced from seven
per centum to two per centum per annum for five years, from
the first of January, 1880, three per centum for fifteen years,
and four per centum per annum thereafter, the ordinance
moreover requiring that the bonds should be presented to the
state treasurer or an authorized agent of the State in order to
have stamped thereon interest reduced in accordance with the
ordinance." The holders of the consolidated bonds were,
however, given the right, instead of accepting this reduction,

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Statement of the Case.

of applying to the state treasurer to obtain new bonds at the
rate of seventy-five cents on the dollar.
An act of the legislature of the State of Louisiana, passed
to execute this provision of the constitution, provided for the
printing of the new bonds and for their issue, upon request,
in exchange for outstanding consolidated bonds at the reduced
rate, and farther provided for the cancellation of the consolidated bonds when surrendered for exchange by the following
provision found in section 8 of the act in question: "That the
governor shall furnish to the state treasurer a large stamp,
having on it the words: I Cancelled by the issue of new bonds
under the ordinance of the constitution relative to state debt.'
And the treasurer shall stamp the same upon each consolidated
bond as soon as it is surrendered to him."
In order to make good the loss to the seminary fund which
had been produced by issuing consolidated bonds to that fund,
the second paragraph of article 233 of the constitution of the
State of Louisiana provided as follows:
"The debt due by the State to the seminary fund is hereby declared to be one hundred and thirty-six thousand dollars, being
the proceeds of the sales of lands heretofore granted by the
United States to the State for the use of a seminary of learning, and said amount shall be placed to the credit of said fund
on the books of the auditor and treasurer of the State as a perpetual loan, and the State shall pay an annual interest of four
per cent on said amount from January 1, 1880, for the use of
said seminary of learning; and the consolidated bonds of the
State now held for use of said fund shall be null and void after
the 1st day of January, 1880, and the general assembly shall
never make any provision for their payment, and they shall be
destroyed in such manner as the general assembly may direct."
A like provision as to the agricultural and mechanical college fund was made by the third paragraph of the same article
of the constitution. After fixing the amount of the fund, and
directing the credit of the same on the books of the State,
and the payment of an annual interest for the use of the agricultural and mechanical college, the paragraph provides:
"The consolidated bonds of the State now held by the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

for the use of said fund shall be null and void after the 1st
day of January, 1880, and the general assembly shall never
make any provision for their payment, and they shall be destroyed in such manner as the general assembly may direct."
At the time of the adoption of the constitution of 1879, the
consolidated bonds, which belonged to the seminary and to
the agricultural and mechanical college, were held by the
state treasurer for account of the funds in question, and they
continued to be so held by him certainly up to the end of
June, 1882. In a report made to the governor for the year
1878, Antoine Dubuclet, state treasurer of the State of Louisiana, stated that he had in his possession, representing the
investment of the agricultural and mechanical college fund,
consolidated bonds of th6 State numbered from 710 to 905
inclusive. On January 1, 1880, E. A. Burke, the state treasurer of Louisiana, in his official report to the governor, made
the following statement of the two funds:
"Mechanical and Agricultural College.
196 bonds of $1000 each, issued by the State of
Louisiana under act No. 3 of 1879, Nos. 710
to 905, inclusive ........................... $196,000
2 bonds of $500 each, issued by the State of Lou200
isiana under act No. 3 of 1879, Nos. 42 and 43
$196,200"
The same report also stated the following as regards the
seminary fund:
"Louisiana State University or Seminary Fund.
164 bonds of $500 each, issued by the State of Louisiana under act No. 3 of 1879, Nos. 1902 to
2065, inclusive ............................ $82,000
2 bonds of $500 each, issued by the State of Louisiana under act No. 3 of 1879, Nos. 4184 and
200
4185 .....................................
1 bond of $1000, consolidated debt city of New
1000
Orleans, dated July 1, 1852, No. 492 .........
$83,200"

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Statement of the Case.

To the extent that these official publications afforded means
of ascertaining the particular consolidated bonds which had
been issued to and were held by the state treasurer for account
of the two trust funds in question, they necessarily qualify
the previous statement that there was nothing from which
the public could ascertain the particular consolidated bonds
which had been issued to and were held by these trust funds.
The thirteen bonds covered by the sale from which the controversy results were as follows: Six bearing serial numbers
between 710 to 905 were consolidated bonds issued to the
mechanical and agricultural college fund. Six bearing numbers between 1902 and 2065 were consolidated bonds issued
to the seminary fund. One of the bonds was a consolidated
bond issued under the funding act of 1874, which had been
surrendered to the state treasurer, E. A. Burke, for exchange
for a new bond at the rate of seventy-five cents on a dollar
and reduced interest. At the time of this surrender the new
bond at the reduced rate was issued, and the bond in question
was returned into the treasury for cancellation under the provisions of the constitution of the State. The whole of the thirteen bonds were fraudulently issued by the state treasurer, who
put them on the market surreptitiously and without authority.
The precise date at which the bonds were acquired by the
defendant below (defendant in error here) is not mentioned in
the statement of facts. They must have been so acquired,
however, after the end of June, 1882, and before the 27th of
February, 1889, since the statement of facts discloses that the
bonds were held by the state treasurer up to the first named
date, and that they were sold to the plaintiffs on the second
named date. E. A. Burke, the state treasurer, by whom these
acts were done, was treasurer from 1878 to 1888. The statement of facts discloses that during his term of office legislative
committees examined his books and made a favorable report,
and that at the end of his term of office a committee also
examined them with like result. The statement establishes
that the public were unaware that the treasurer had unlawfully issued the bonds in question, and after their issue until
the discovery of that fact the coupons therefrom were regu-

OCTOBER TERMYI, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

larly paid by the State, including the coupons falling due on
the 1st day of July, 1889, and after that date, in consequence of
the discovery of the wrong, the state officers declined further
to pay the coupons of said bonds, and the auditor and treasurer
of the State, in September, 1889, gave notice to the world that
the bonds above described and issued as above stated were
null and void and not legal debts of the State. It was further
admitted that E. A. Burke, who was treasurer of the State as
above mentioned, and who was charged with the custody of
the bonds, had been indicted for their conversion to his own
use, and that he is now, and has been since 1889, a fugitive
from justice, and that the governor has been authorized by the
legislature to issue a reward for his apprehension.
. There was judgment for defendant, 46 Fed. Rep. 727, and
the present writ of error was prosecuted.
.Mr.E. H. -Farrar,-Mr. B. F. Jonas and Xr. E. B. ruttschlnitt for plaintiffs in error.
-Mr. .FenryL. Lazarus for defendant in error.
I. When a political body or State enters the markets of the
world to borrow money or to pay its debts, in bonds or commercial paper of any form transferable by indorsement or
delivery, it becomes subject to the same rules of the law
merchant that affect or operate on private persons or merchants dealing in the same class of paper, by which any
"innocent holder before maturity" is exempt from inquiries
into the circumstances under which the obligation of the
maker was first, put into circulation.
II. The rights of innocent good-faith holders of the commercial paper of the State of Louisiana, acquired before maturity, are not affected nor are their rights to be determined
by the provisions of the Civil Code of Louisiana relating to
warranty in case of sale of property moveable or otherwise.
II. The general commercial law, or the law merchant of
the United States, relating to the rights and obligations of
makers and holders of commercial and negotiable paper obtains and is in force in Louisiana.

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

IV. Under the accepted law merchant, as it obtains in the
United States, commercial paper, if actually the paper-of the
maker, if put on the market even through theft or embezzlement from the maker or owner, and in circulation passes into
the hands of a bona.fde third holder before maturity, confers

a good title on such good-faith holder against the maker or
former owner.

V. If a State, by legislation, attempts to take away the
negotiable character from any of its commercial paper in circulation at the time of such legislation, such action to be
effective must be both so public and specific as to the paper
or obligations sought to be affected that there can be no
doubt concerning the particular and specific obligations sought
to be affected. There must be such specific designation or
description that the restriction of negotiability will be apparent to dealers in that class of securities upon inspection of
the obligation itself, or by certain indications including it in
the restrictive legislation.
VI. When it is alleged as a defence against the payment of
negotiable securities or obligations to a good-faith holder
before maturity, that the obligation had been cancelled by the
maker, such cancellation, to be effective, must appear by an
inspection of the obligation itself, and must be an unequivocal
cancellation. In all commercial dealings of States, resulting in
the emission of commercial paper or obligations, the acts and
omissions of the fiscal officers of the State, whereby obligations
of the State, binding on their face as obligations, are emitted
and put into circulation so as to reach the hands of bonza jde
holders in the due course of trade and commerce, are the acts
or omissions of the State itself as to all such obligations.
VII. The vendor of commercial paper or public securities
negotiable by delivery is liable ex delicto for bad faith, and
there is an implied warranty on his part that they
ex contratw&
belong to him, and are not forgeries. Where there is no express stipulation, there is no liability beyond this.
MR. JusricE WHiTE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

A strict construction of the pleadings would create the impression that the sale out of which the controversy arose was
made upon an express oral warranty of the validity of the
bonds sold. As, however, the case was submitted upon an
agreed statement of facts which does not declare this to be a
fact, and as both parties, as well as the court below, assumed
such not to be the case, we will pretermit this aspect of the
subject and consider the case upon the theory that the only
warranty, if any, is one to be implied from the nature of the
contract.
It is obvious from the facts just detailed that the thirteen
bonds which were sold by the defendant in error to the plaintiff in error were at the time of the sale absolutely void. The
twelve which originally belonged to the two college funds
were in express terms declared by the constitution of the
State to be "null and void," and the general assembly was
forbidden to make any provision "for their payment," and
they were ordered to be "destroyed in such manner as the
general assembly may direct." This provision of the constitution was in existence while the bonds were in the hands of the
State, and before they were fraudulently and surreptitiously
sold. Indeed, these bonds were never lawfully put into circulation, because, having been originally issued to represent trust
funds belonging to the State, they were held by officers of the
State for its account. The remaining bond was also void under
the constitution of the State, since it had been, under the express terms of that instrument, surrendered to the state treasurer for cancellation and another bond issued in its stead.
The bonds were undoubtedly sold by the defendant in error
as lawful obligations of the State. Both parties to the contract of sale so considered. The pleadings and the statement
of facts leave no question on this subject. The controversy
here presented is wholly between the vendor and vendee as to
the nature and extent of the obligation of warranty resulting
from the sale. We are therefore not concerned with whether
the defendant at the time of the sale stood in the attitude of
a third holder of negotiable paper for value before maturity.
Even if he were in such a condition, and at the time of the sale

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

there was a constitutional provision which rendered the bonds
void and incapable of enforcement, it is clear that the delivery
by the vendor to the vendee of bonds stricken with constitutional nullity was not the delivery of an existing obligation
within the meaning of the contract if it imported a warranty
of the existence of the bonds which it covered. The admission
being that both parties contemplated the delivery of valid
obligations, bonds of that character being outstanding, if
warranty of existence was implied by law, such purpose was
not fulfilled- by the delivery of a mere equity, which one of
the parties, the seller, claims was existing in his behalf. Valid
bonds and not the mere claim by the seller to enforce invalid
bonds was the object of the contract. This is especially true
in view of the fact just referred to that at the date of the sale
the constitution of the State in express terms forbade the enforcement of twelve of the bonds and practically stipulated to
the same effect as to the other.
The sale was a Louisiana contract. We must consequently
determine the rights and obligations of the parties by the law
of that State. By the civil law, which prevails in Louisiana,
warranty, whilst not of the essence, is yet of the nature of
the contract of sale, and is, therefore, implied in every such
contract unless there be an express stipulation to the contrary.
Bayon v. Yava88eur, 10 Martin, 61; Strawbridge v. WVarfeld, I
Louisiana, 20. The following provisions on the subject of
warranty are found in the Louisiana code: "The seller is
bound to two principal obligations, that of delivery and that
of warranting the thing which he sells." 0. C. 2475.
"Although at the time of the sale no stipulations have been
made respecting the warranty, the seller is obliged, of course,
to warrant the buyer against the eviction suffered by him from
the totality or part of the thing sold and against the charges
claimed on such thing which were not declared at the time
of the sale."
0.C. 2501.
"Even in case of stipulation of
no warranty, the seller in case of eviction is liable to a restitution of the price, unless the buyer was aware, at the time of
the sale, of the danger of the eviction, and purchased at his
peril and risk." C. 0. 2505.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

These articles of the Louisiana Civil Code, which do but
formulate the principles of the civil law as to warranty, are not
wholly in accord with the doctrines of the common law. The
distinction between the two systems may be briefly summed
up by saying that the one, the civil law doctrine, finds its
expression in the maxim caveat venditor, whilst the rule of
the common law is conveyed by the aphorism caveat emptor.
It is unnecessary to determine the scope, under the Louisiana
law, of the obligation of warranty as to property generally,
since we are in this case concerned only with its limit when
arising from the sale of a credit or other incorporeal right.
The code of that State contains express provisions defining
the extent of the obligations arising in such case. "He who
sells a credit or an incorporeal right, warrants its existence
at the time of the transfer, though no warranty be mentioned
in the deed." C. 0. 2646. "The seller does not warrant the
solvency of the debtor unless he has agreed so to do." C. 0.
2647. These provisions, instead of causing the obligation of
warranty in a sale of an incorporeal right to be broader than
in the case of tangible property, on the contrary make it
narrower.
As then, under the law of Louisiana, the seller under the
contract of sale was obliged to warrant the existence of
the thing sold, the case of the defendant in error involves the
practical contention that a bond which at the time of the sale
was declared by the constitution of the State to be non-exist
ing, is yet for the purposes of the sale to be treated as an
existing obligation. This proposition is an obvious contradiction in terms, and of course refutes itself. In Knight v. -Lanfear, 7 Rob. (La.) 172, where a treasury note had been sold
without recourse, and it was found that the note had been
redeemed and cancelled and thereafter had been purloined
and reissued, and the word "cancelled" erased, the court held
that the seller was bound to return the price.
In Pugh v. Moore, Hyams & Co., 44 La. Ann. 209, the.
plaintiff sought to recover the purchase price of five bonds
identical in character with the bonds embraced in the sale
here in controversy, four of them being Mfechanical and Agri-

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

cultural College bonds unlawfully issued under similar circumstances to those here presented, and one being a consolidated
bond unlawfully issued after its surrender in exchange for
another bond. The Supreme Court of Louisiana, after
elaborate consideration, held, for one among other reasons,
that the seller having been obligated to the warranty of the
existence of the bonds at the time of the sale, and the bonds
being void under the constitution, he was obliged to return
the price. This implied obligation to warrant the existence of
the claim at-the time of the sale has also been frequently recognized in a collateral way by the court of last resort of the
State of Louisiana. Thus, where the owner of several notes,
secured by one mortgage, has transferred some of the notes,
and where on a sale of the mortgage property, to pay the
debt, the proceeds have proven inadequate to pay all the
notes, the settled doctrine in Louisiana is that in consequence
of the obligation of the seller to warrant the existence of the
debt, he cannot take a part of the proceeds of the mortgaged
premises to pay the notes retained by him and thus frustrate
the right of his transferee to take the entire amount of the
security to the extent necessary to pay the notes transferred.
Salzman v. Creditor, 2 Rob. 241.
The provision of the civil law of Louisiana, imposing upon
the seller of a credit or incorporeal right the obligation of
warranting the existence of the debt at the time of the sale is
not original in the code of that State, but was drawn in so
many words from the Code Napoleon, article 1693. It was
not new in that code, and but expressed the settled rule of the
Roman and ancient law. L. L. 4, 5, 7, 10, 11, ff. de Haeredit.
vel act. vendit. ; L. 68, sec. 1 ; L. '74, ff. de Evictionib. ; L. 30, fr.
de Pignor et hyp. Merlin, Rep. vol. 13, Verbo Garantie des
Cr~ances.
Where the provisions of the Louisiana Code and the Code
Napoleon are identical the expositions of the civil law writers
and the adjudications of the French courts are persuasive as
to the proper construction of the Louisiana Code. Viterbo v.
Friedlander,120 U. S. 707, 728; Groves v. entell, 153 U. S.
465, 478.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Marcad6, in his Commentary on the Law of Sale, thus
states the rule:
"All sales of a credit subject the seller, unless there be a
stipulation to the contrary, to a guarantee of the existence
and the validity of the credit, as also of his right of ownership
to it. Article 1693 speaks, it is true, only of the guarantee of
the existence of the credit. But as the credit existing to-day,
if subsequently declared to have been void, would in contemplation of law have never existed, and also as it would be
equally immaterial for the buyer if the credit had a real existence, if that existence was available only to some one else, it is
evident that by an existing credit is to be understood one
which validly exists as the property of him who transfers it.
The one who transfers, then, is held to guarantee in three
cases: 1. If at the time of the sale the credit did not exist,
either because it had never existed or because it was extinguished by compensation, by prescription or otherwise. 2. If
the credit should be declared to have been void or the obligation be rescinded. 3. If it belonged to another person than
the transferrer." Mvarcad6, De la Vente, 335.
Troplong, in his learned treatise on the same subject, thus
expounds the doctrine:
"In the sale of a credit, as in that of every other object,
legal warranty is always understood. The vendor guarantees
to the vendee the existence of the credit at the moment of
the transfer, although there should be no expression in the
contract to that effect. It is this which caused Ulpian to
say: I When a credit is sold, Celsus writes in the ninth book
of the Digest, that the seller is not obliged to guarantee that
the debtor is solvent but only that he is really a debtor, unless
there has been an express agreement between the parties on
this subject.' This guarantee is more strictly obligatory in
the sale of a credit than in other matters, because the right
to a credit is neither visible or palpable as it is in the case
of other movable or immovable property. . . . And here
let there be no misunderstanding. Do not confound the
credit with the title by which it is established. Both law
and reason exact that the credit should exist at the time

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

of the sale, and it is not sufficient that a title should have
been delivered to the buyer. The title is not the credit.
It can materially subsist, whilst the credit is extinguished.
Thus, if the credit had been annihilated by compensation
or by prescription it would serve no purpose to deliver to
the buyer a title which would have nothing but the appearance of life. The buyer in such case would have a right
to avail himself of the warranty." 2 Troplong, De la Vente,
§§ 931, 932.
And Laurent, the latest and fullest commentator, says:
"1Article 1693- says ' that the seller guarantees the existence
of the credit.' We must understand this word ' existence' in
the sense given to it by tradition. 'Whoever,' says Loyseau,
'sells a debt or a rent, guarantees that it is due and lawfully
constituted, because, without distinction in all contracts of
sale, the seller is bound to three things by the very nature
of the contract, (1) that the thing exists; (2) that it belongs
to him; and (3) that it had not been engaged to another.'
Pothier resumes this doctrine by saying 'that the guarantee
of a right consists in the undertaking that the right sold is
really due to the vendor;' and the code is yet more brief
since it speaks only of the existence of the debt. We must,
therefore, see what the existence of the debt signifies according to the explanation of Loyseau. Firstly, the vendor is
held to guarantee that the debt exists and subsists (',8oit et
8ubssite').

If the debt has never existed because one of the

conditions necessary for the existence of the contract makes
default, the vendor has sold nothing; there is no object; he
is held by the guarantee; this is obvious. The same rule
would apply if the debt had existed, but was extinguished
at the time of the transfer, because it is as if it had never
existed. Such would be the case of a credit which was
prescribed, or which had been extinguished by compensation.

.

.

.

It is necessary, in the second place, that the

credit should be as constituted, says Loyseau; if it is stricken
with a vice which renders it void, the vendee has a right to
the warranty. This is not doubtful, since the right is really
annulled or rescinded, because the judgment which has anvoL. cxLm-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

nulled the credit destroys it as if it had never existed."
Laurent, vol. 24, N~os. 540-41-42.
The views thus expressed by the foregoing writers are substantially concurred in by the French commentators. Duranton, vol. 9, p. 183; Aubrey & Rau, vol. 5, p. 442. The
courts of France from an early day have applied the same
principle.
In Prat c. Dervieu the facts were these: Dervieux transferred the amount of a claim against the government, which
by a subsequent liquidation of accounts was compensated by
a claim held by the government which resulted from another
matter. The Court of Cassation held that under article 1693
of 0. Ni. the obligation to guarantee the existence of the claim
at the time of the sale compelled the seller to restore the price.
Journal du Palais, 1807, p. 311.
In Revel c. Lippnan a transfer was made of a claim
against the government, which was stated to be subject to
a future settlement of accounts. On the ultimate liquidation
it was found that nothing was due, and the Court of Cassation
held that the obligation, therefore, arose to return the price
paid on the sale. Journal du Palais, 1825, p. 963.
Of course, this warranty of existence, as established by the
law of Louisiana and as found in France and other civil law
countries, does not govern a contract of sale when the object
contemplated by a sale is a thing whether existing or not
existing; in other words, where the parties buy, not an
existing obligation, but the chance of there being one. This
is illustrated by Enight v. Lafear,8upra, where the court,
per Martin, J., said, in speaking of the thing sold: "Whatever
may be its value, if it be not in substance what the purchaser
believed he was receiving, his error must invalidate the sale,
because it prevented his consent; nm vicdtur, qui errat, con.3erdire."
And, in speaking of a sale of doubtful or non-existing
things, this great judge said: "This claim was a fair object
of sale if its nature had been disclosed, but that was concealed and was probably unknown to them, and what was
offered for sale was something quite different from this claim."

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

The same distinction has been considered and applied by
the courts of France. Ddac c. Clusel et Cie., Lyons, Nov. 30,
849, Journal du Palais, 1, 1852, 32.
The defendant in error does not dispute that the foregoing
principles exist in and are controlling under the Louisiana
law, under the law of France, and also under the civil law
generally from which the law of Louisiana is derived. But
whilst thus admitting, he denies that the contract of sale,
involved in this case, was governed either by the Louisiana
code or the general principles of the civil law. This proposition rests on the contention that when the Civil Code of
Louisiana was compiled, its framers contemplated the simultaneous enactment of a Commercial Code which was then
drafted, and therefore omitted from the former code the
necessary provisions to govern commercial contracts under
the hypothesis that the latter would also be enacted; that
in consequence of the failure to adopt the Commercial Code,
the courts of Louisiana have held that cases arising under
the law merchant are governed by that law in the absence
of an express statutory requirement to the contrary. From
this premise the conclusion is drawn that as the contract in
question involved the sale of negotiable bonds, the obligations
resulting from the sale are commercial in their nature, and
are controlled by the law merchant, by which it is asserted
the vendor in such a case, when selling in good faith, warrants only that the signatures to the paper sold are not forgeries. In a restricted sense the part of the proposition
relating to the operation of the law merchant, in the State
of Louisiana, is well founded. .arrod v. lafayre, 12 Martin,
29; Wagner v. Zenner, 2 IRob. La. 122; Barry v. In&urance
Co., 12 Martin, 498; -McDonald v. .Milloudoa, 5 Louisiana,
403. Whilst this is true, the contention is yet erroneous in
a twofold sense; first, in presupposing that a mere contract
of sale of commercial paper, without recourse, is governed as
to the obligations, between the vendor and vendee, by the
law merchant; second, in assuming that in such a sale, either
under the principles of the civil law or what the argument
presumes to be the law merchant, the only warranty resting

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the vendor is that of the genuineness of the signatures
to the paper sold.
In Pugh v. Moore, Hyam8 & Co., 8upra, the Supreme Court
of Louisiana expressly held that the contract of sale there considered (which was similar to the one here involved) was governed and controlled by the provisions of the Civil Code of
Louisiana, and like rulings were previously expressed in Sun
.MutuaZ Itsurance Co. v. Board of Liguidation,31 La. Ann.
176, and in State ex reZ. Durant v. Board, 29 La. Ann. 77.
A like rule is maintained in the jurisprudence of France,
where, in addition to the Code Napoleon or Civil Code,
there is a Commercial Code regulating mercantile contracts.
This is shown by the decision in a case where the vendor
transferred certain notes without recourse, and in consequence
of the forgery of some of them was held liable to return the
price. Laurent, vol. 24, p. 535 thus states the case:
"The Court of Cassation has appliedthe same principle
to commercial matters. The case is worthy of citation. Exchange dealers sold a certain number of notes of the Austrian
bank of one hundred florins each. These notes having been
presented to the bank of Vienna, by the transferees, twentysix among them were declared to be forged. From this arose
an action in warranty, which was defeated in the first instance by the tribunal of the Seine. The claim was recognized on appeal. When the case came before the Court of
Cassation it was contended that the Paris court had made
an erroneous application of article 1693, in declaring an exchange dealer, a guarantor of the value of false bank notes
which he had delivered in good faith, to a particular person
by way of sale or transfer. The guarantee, it was said, by
those who transferred a forged bank note, is not different in
fact from that which is incurred by a merchant, an exchange
broker or banker, who has without intention and without
knowledge negotiated in good faith commercial effects, such
as bills of exchange or notes to order upon which there are
false signatures, the guarantee in such cases is regulated by
the commercial law. And it results from articles 140 and 187
of the Commercial Code that he who has not endorsed but

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

who has delivered from hand to hand, as he has received
them, commercial paper is subject to no guarantee, because
the absence of his signature indicates that he has no intention
to become the guarantor of the sale, and that the buyer has
dealt on the faith of the apparent title which he has accepted,
and as a consequence he has a right to no guarantee. But the
Court of Cassation rejected this contention, and decided that
the guarantee is of the nature of the sale, and that it would
be contrary to both law and equity to hold that the delivery
of a forged- bank bill, although made in good faith, did not
give rise to recovery on the part of him who had paid the
price."
None of the authorities referred to by counsel for defendant in error sustain the proposition heretofore stated with
reference to the supposed existence and applicability of the
law merchant, and the results which it is claimed flow therefrom. On the contrary, both in England and in the United
States the doctrine is universally recognized that where commercial paper is sold without indorsement or without express
assumption of liability on the paper itself, the contract of sale
and the obligations which arise from. it, as between vendor
and vendee, are governed by the common law, relating to the
sale of goods and chattels. So, also, the undoubted rule is
that in such a sale the obligation of the vendor is not restricted to the mere question of forgery veZ non, but depends
upon whether he has delivered that which he contracted to
sell, this rule being designated, in England, as a condition of
the principal contract, as to the essence and substance of the
thing agreed to be sold, and in this country being generally
termed an implied warranty of identity of the thing sold.
Benjamin on Sales, (4th Am. ed.) sec. 600, says: "When the
vendor sells an article by a particular description, it is a condition precedent to his right of action" (to recover the price
agreed to be paid by the vendee) "that the thing which he
offers to deliver, or has delivered, should answer the description;" and, in sec. 607, the author says:
"Under this head may also properly be included the class
of cases in which it has been held that the vendor who sells

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

bills of exchange, notes, shares, certificates and other securities, is bound, not by the collateral contract of warranty, but
by the principal contract itself, to deliver as a condition precedent that which is genuine, not that which is false, counterfeit or not marketable by the name or denomination used in
describing it."
it is upon this general principle of the common law, not
upon any peculiar doctrine of commercial law, that the cases
in the common law courts proceed. Thus, in Jones v. Ryde,
5 Taunt. 488, (1814,) where an action was brought to recover
the damage sustained by a discount of an altered bill, Gibbs,
C. J., said (p. 492):
"Both parties were mistaken in the view they had of this
navy bill; the one in representing it to be a navy bill of this
description; the other in taking it to be such. Upon its afterwards turning out that this bill was to a certain extent a forgery, we think he who took the money ought to refund it to
the extent to which the bill is invalid. The ground of the
defendant's resistance is, that the bill is not endorsed; and
that whensoever instruments are transferred without indorsement, the negotiator professes not to be answerable for their
validity. This question was much mooted in Fenn v. Iarrison,
3 T. R. 757, and it is true to a certain extent, viz., that in the
case of a bill, note or other instrument of the like nature, which
passes by indorsement, if he who negotiates it does not endorse
it, he does not subject himself to that responsibility which
the indorsement would bring on him, viz., to an action to be
brought against him as endorser, but his declining to endorse
the bill does not rid him of that responsibility which attaches
on him for putting off an instrument as of a certain description which turns out not to be such as he represents it. The
defendant has in the present case put off this instrument as
a navy bill of a certain description; it turns out not to be a
navy bill of that amount, and, therefore, the money must be
recovered back."
Chambre, J., said (p. 494):
"I really cannot entertain a doubt on the question; if the
defendant's doctrine could prevail it would very materially

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

impair the credit of these instruments. They are not in
practice endorsed, (or not beyond the first taker). A man
takes this security looking to the persons who are to pay it;
he takes it on the presumption that it is a navy bill; it was
once a navy bill, but from the moment wherein it was altered
it became of no value whatsoever. It is unnecessary to go
into the authorities."
In WRIkinson v. Johnson, 3 B. & 0.428, (1824,) one who had
taken up a bill for honor, subsequently discovered that the
signatures were forgeries. He was held entitled to recover,
upon the general doctrine of the common law relating to
contracts.
In Young v. Oo e,3 Bing. N. C.724, (1827,) recovery was
sought for the amount of certain Guatemala bonds which had
been sold for account of the defendant, and which after the
sale were discovered not to be a marketable commodity on
the stock exchange, because not stamped, as required by an
advertised notice of the government of Guatemala, given prior
to the sale, but subsequent to the time when the bonds had
been issued and put into circulation. The claim of the plaintiff was adjudged to be well founded, although there was no
question of forgery or alteration, upon the common law principle already stated.
Lamert v. Reat, 15 XM. & W. 486, (1846,) was an action to
recover from the defendant the amount paid him for certain
Kentish Coast Railway scrip, which, after delivery to the
plaintiff, turned out to have been issued without authority.
The defendant was a stock broker, and was employed by the
plaintiff to purchase the scrip. A verdict having been returned
for the plaintiff a new trial was granted, on the ground that
as the proof showed that the article purchased was the only
article known in the market as Kentish Coast Railway scrip,
the question for the jury was not whether the scrip was
genuine scrip, but whether it was the identical thing which
the plaintiff contracted to buy. This ruling, therefore, accords
with the principles of the former cases and illustrates the distinction between an implied condition of the sale as the essence
of the thing sold and the ascertainment of whether the con.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tract of sale in the purview of the parties embraced a particular object, just as it appeared to be whether existing or not,
whether valid or invalid.

In this respect this case is entirely

in harmony with the opinion of Martin, J., heretofore referred
to. It, moreover, very pointedly refutes the contention that
a particular state of the law of warranty applies to the transaction of a sale and purchase of negotiable paper without
recourse, since the scrip in question was non-negotiable.
In Gompertz v. Bartlett, 2 El. & Bl. 849, (1853,) an unstamped bill of exchange endorsed in blank, purporting to be a
foreign bill, was sold, without recourse, by the holder, who was
not a party to the bill. It proved to have been drawn in England, and was, in consequence, invalid for want of a stamp, and
could not be enforced against the parties. The vendor and
purchaser at the time of sale were both alike ignorant of this
defect. It was held that the purchaser was entitled to recover
back the price from the vendor, on the ground that the article
sold as a foreign bill, although not forged or altered, did not
answer the description by which it was sold. Counsel for defendant contended that "as the bill was sold without recourse,
nothing turned on the peculiar character of a bill of exchange,
and the case was the same as if the sale had been of any other
specific chattel, sold without a warranty, when the maxim caveat emvtor applies." Lord Campbell, C. J., replied (p. 850):
"If the purchaser receives what answers the description of
the article sold, he cannot, in the absence of a warranty, recover for a defect in its quality. In such case, caveat em tor.
But it will be put against you here, that you sold a foreign bill,
and that the thing delivered was not a foreign bill at all."
The counsel for plaintiff stated his case in the following
words, which, in view of the language previously quoted from
the defendant's counsel, makes clear the fact that it was not
disputed that the transaction was governed by the common
law applicable to sales:
"The plaintiff's proposition is, that if a thing was sold as
being an article of a specific description, and if, from a latent
defect unknown to both parties, it was in substance not an
article of that specific description, but an article of no value,

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

the purchaser is entitled to recover back the price he has paid
for it, not on the ground of a breach of warranty, but because
he has paid for the thing sold, and what he has received is
not the thing sold, but of a different kind."
In Gurney v. Womerley, 4 El. & B1. 133, (1854,) an action
was brought by a firm of bill brokers to recover the amount
paid on the discount of a bill transferred by mere delivery,
where the signatures, with one exception, were forgeries. It
was held that, though there was no indorsement or guaranty,
and, therefore, no warranty, of the solvency of the parties to
the bill, there was a total failure of consideration, and plaintiffs were entitled to recover back the money paid for the bill
from the party with whom the transaction was had. Coleridge, J., observed (p. 141):
"The vendor of a specific chattel, it is not disputed, is responsible if the article be not a genuine article of that kind of
which the seller represents it to be. And the question raised
really is, what is the extent of the want of genuineness for which
he is responsible? Without laying down the limits, it is clear
to me that this case fell much within them. In effect here
the defendants said to the plaintiffs, will you take, without
recourse to us, this bill which purports to bear the acceptance
of P. & 0. Van Kotten? By doing so they represented it to
be their acceptance, as it purported to be, and sold it, as
answering that description."
Wightman, J., said (p. 142):
"In considering whether a defect in an article renders it
not an article of the kind of which it was represented to be
on the sale, or is merely a breach of a collateral warranty,
much must depend upon the special circumstances and terms
of the rule. Here I think that the bill, not being an acceptance of P. & 0. Van Notten, fails in what was the substance
of the description by which it was held."
Lord Campbell, 0. J., said (p. 143):
"I am of opinion that though the defendants, by not endorsing or guaranteeing the bill, preserved themselves from
warranting the solvency of any of the parties, yet they did
undertake that the instrument was what it purported to be.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not disputed that in fact the discount of their bill by the
plaintiffs was solely on the faith of its being an acceptance of
P. & 0. Van Notten, which it was not; and in consequence
of its being so it was valueless. The possibility of recourse
against the estate of Anderson, a convict and a bankrupt, did
not prevent there being a total failure of consideration."
The cases in the American courts, whilst declaring the same
rule as that recognized in England, place it upon a theoretical basis differing somewhat from that announced by the
English courts; that is, instead of pronouncing it a condition
of the principal contract that the thing sold, in its essence and
substance, must be delivered, declare that there is an implied
warranty of identity, or, in other words, that the thing sold is
what it purports to be. Daniels, in his treatise on Negotiable
Paper, § 733a, calls attention to the different definitions given
to the same obligation by the American and English courts, and
indicates the view that the form of expression used by Benjamin in the passage already quoted is the more accurate one.
Aside, however, from the mere garb in which the thought
is clothed, the American and English courts are in full accord.
This is shown by the case of UtZey v. -Donaldson,94 U. S. 29,

45, where Benjamin on Sales is approvingly referred to, as
also Flynn v. A len, 57 Penn. St. 482, and Webb v. OdelZ, 49

N. Y. 583, both of which cases, as also the line of American
adjudications which enforce the same doctrine, are noted in
the margin of this opinion.1
1 Thrall v. Newell, 19 Vt. 202, 206, (1847); Lyons v. Miller, 6 Grat. 427,
439, (1849); Aldrich v. Jackson, 5 IL T. 218, (1858); Barton v. Trent, 3
Head, 167, 169, (1859); Delaware Bank v. Jarvis, 20 N. Y. 226, 229, (1859);
Merriam v. Wolcott, 3 Allen, 258, (1861); Bell v. Cafferty, 21 Ind. 411, 413,
(1863); Swanzey v. Parker, 50 Penn. St. 441, 450, (1865); Morrison v.
Lovell, 4 W. Va. 346, 350; Webb v. Odell, 49 N. Y. 583, (1872) ; Worthington
v. Cowles, 112 Mass. 30, (1873); Snyder v. Beno, 38 Iowa, 329, 333, (1874);
Giffert v. West, 33 Wis. 617, (1873) ; 37 Wis. 115, 117, (1875) ; Hannum v.
Richardson, 48 Vt. 508, (1875); Hussey v. Sibley, 66 Maine, 192, (1876);
Hurst v. Chambers, 12 Bush. (Ky.) 155, 158, (1876); Allen v. Clark, 49 Vt.
390, (1877); Bankhead v. Owen, 60 Ala. 457, 461, (1877); Smith v. Mc.Nair,
19 Kan. 830, (1877); Challissv. Mfcrum, 22 Kan. 157, 161, (1879) ; Rogers
v. Walsh, 12 Neb. 28, (1881);" Milliken v. Chapman, 75 Maine, 306, 317,

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

Many of the controversies covered by the cases referred to
arose in consequence of the sale of a forged note, but the principles upon which all the authorities proceed do not confine
the right of recovery to such a case, but rest upon the general
doctrine to which we have already referred. In fact, no case
is reported wherein the obligation, as between vendor and
vendee, in the sale of negotiable paper, is claimed to be controlled other than by the general principles of the common
law, though in three cases, Baxter v. Duren, 29 Maine, 434,
Fiher v. Rieman, 12 Maryland, 497, and Elli v. Wild, 6
Mass. 321, the deduction was made from the law respecting
the sale of goods that on a sale of negotiable paper there was
under the principle of caveat emptor no implied warranty even
that the signatures to the paper were not forged. E'lis v.
Wild was, however, expressly overruled in .Merriam v. Wolcott, 3 Allen, 258, 260; and from the allusions to Baxter v.
.Duren, contained in the later Maine decisions previously
noted in the margin, it is doubtful whether the early ruling in
Maine would now be followed there. The three cases referred
to, it is needless to say, are practically disregarded by the
entire current of American and English authority, and stand
alone. They are disavowed by the defendant in error here,
since his argument admits that there is a warranty of the genuineness of the signatures, to an apparent negotiable instrument,
thereby conceding the subsistence of the obligation to warrant
the existence or identity of the thing sold, and yet seeking to
avoid its consequences by limiting it to non-existence resulting
from a particular nullity. There is an exceptional case, Littauer v. Goldman, 72 N. Y. 506, (1878,) which holds that the
common law obligation, as to the implied warranty of identity
in the thing sold, in the case of'commercial paper, extends
only to the genuineness of the instrument. The case was
one involving the nullity of a usurious note, and, if correctly
decided, would be authority for the proposition that there was
a peculiar species of warranty in the sale of commercial paper,
(1883); Daskam v. Ullman, 74 Wis. 474, 476, (1889); Palmer v. Courtney, 32
Neb. 773, (1891); Ware v. Mcormack, (Ky.) 28 S. W. 157, (1894); Brown
T. Ames, (Minn.) 61 N. W. 448, (1894).

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

differing from all others ; in other words, that there was a
law merchant of warranty where there was no commercial
contract. The opinion in this case illustrates the same
contradictory position presented here by the argument of the
defendant in error, to which we have just called attention,
that is, that it admits the common law rule and then denies
its essential result by eliminating conditions of non-existence
which are necessarily embraced by it. It follows that this
New York decision leads logically to the view expressed in
the Maine and Maryland cases just referred to, for either the
principle of warranty of identity must be accepted or rejected;
it cannot be accepted and its legitimate and inevitable results
be denied. The rule there announced was in conflict with
previous decisions in New York, and the decision is strongly
criticised by the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey
in Wood v. Sheldon, 42 N. J. Law, 421, 425.
In Gifert v. West, 33 Wisconsin, 617, (1873,) where a note
was sold which was void for usury, the vendee was allowed
to recover the consideration paid by him, and his right to do
so was based upon the general doctrine that one making a sale
is bound as a condition of the principal contract to an implied
warranty of the existence of the thing sold.
In Rannum v. Richardson,48 Vermont, 508, (1875,) a very
clear statement of the doctrine is found. There an indorser
sold a negotiable promissory note without recourse. The note
had been given for intoxicating liquors sold in Vermont in
violation of law, and on that account was void at its inception.
It was claimed that the defendant knew of the invalidity of
the note when he transferred it. The court, however, held
that knowledge on the part of the seller was not necessary to
fix his liability, saying (p. 5'10):
"By indorsing the note 'without recourse,' the defendant
refused to assume the responsibility and liability which the
law attaches to an unqualified indorsement, so that, in respect
to such liability, it may perhaps be regarded as standing without an indorsement. If it be so regarded, then in what position do these parties stand in respect to the transaction? The
principle is well settled, that where personal property of any

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

kind is sold, there is on the part of the seller an implied warranty that he has title to the property, and that it is what it
purports to be, and is that for which it was sold, as understood by the parties at the time, and in such case knowledge
on the part of the seller is not necessary to his liability."
On p. 511 the court further observed:
"The note in question was not a note, it was not what it
purported to be, or what it was sold and purchased for; it is
of no more effect than if it had been a blank piece of paper
for which the plaintiff had paid his fifty dollars. In this view
of the case we think the defendant is liable upon a warranty
that the thing sold was a valid note of hand."
Nor is there any foundation for the assertion that Otis v.
Cullum, 92 U. S. 447, and the cases of Orlean8 v. Platt, 99
U. S. 676, and.tna if.fe Ins. Co. v. .Midd eport, 124 U. S. 534,
both of which cite Otis v. Cullum, support the doctrine that
a sale of commercial paper without recourse is not, as between
the vendor and vendee, governed by the ordinary rule of the
common law. On the contrary, that case expressly rested its
conclusion on the decision in Lamert v. Heath, supra, which
latter case, as we have seen, whilst enforcing the principles
of the common law, considered that under the particular facts
there presented it was a question for the jury to determine
whether the scrip delivered was the kind of scrip which the
defendant had ordered purchased. That case not only, as has
already been stated, concerned non-negotiable paper, but its
decision involved no question of the scope of the warranty,
but solely what was the thing bought. Nor does the case of
Otis v. Cullum justify the assumption that this court laid
down the rule that a mere sale of commercial paper, as between vendor and vendee, when the sale was made without
recourse, created some peculiar and exceptional warranty to
be considered in this particular as the law merchant. It is
true that in expressing the general doctrine, Mr. Justice
Swayne said: "The seller is liable ex delicto for bad faith,
and ex contractu there is an implied warranty on his part that
they belong to him and are not forgeries. Where there is no
express stipulation there is no liability beyond this." But in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

using this language, as to the extent of the warranty, the
mind was directed to that form of non-existence which more
commonly obtains, and the expression is a mere illustration of
the rule de eo quod~vlerumqueft. If this were a case where
a vendee claimed to recover back the price paid by him on a
purchase of negotiable securities, which pass by delivery from
hand to hand, on the averment that after the sale it had developed that they were not valid (although not forgeries),
because the law under which they had been issued was constitutionally void or ultra vire, the claim of implied warranty
of existence would be without merit, for the reason that such
a state of fact would present a case of a sale of securities
whether valid or invalid, hence engendering no implication of
warranty of existence. Under the state of facts thus supposed, the purpose of the parties to make a contract of that
nature would legally result from the fact that they were both
necessarily equally chargeable with notice of want of power,
and therefore would be both presumed to have acted with
reference to such knowledge. This is Otis v. Cullum. But it
is not the case at bar, since it is here admitted that both parties, in entering into the contract of sale, contemplated valid
securities, of which there were many outstanding, and those
delivered were void, not because of a want of power to enact
the law under which they were issued, or because they were
ultra vire for some other legal cause, but because they were
stricken with nullity by a constitutional provision adopted
after the act authorizing the issue of the securities, and where
nothing on the face of the bonds indicated that they were
illegal. The distinction pointed out by the foregoing statement not only illustrates the correctness of the decision in
Ots v. Cullum, but also demonstrates the error of attempting
to extend it to the state of facts presented in the case under
consideration. Indeed, in examining and applying Ot v.
Cullum the fact that it does not control a case like this has
been recognized. Daniel, Neg. Inst. § 734a; Rogems v. Walsh,
supa; Cincinnati, Vew Orleans cd. Railway v. Citizes 2Vational Bank, 24 Week. Law Bull., (Ohio) 198, 211.
The foregoing analysis of the principles and review of the

MEYER v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court

authorities governing the law of sale of negotiable paper,
transferred without recourse, as between vendor and vendee,
clearly demonstrates the unsoundness of the positions upon
which the defendant in error relies, since it affirmatively establishes that there is no peculiar warranty, in a sale of commercial paper, and that the reasoning by which it is attempted to
prove its existence is a mere misconception of the principles of
the common law relating to the sale of goods and chattels.
In passing, however, it is worthy of note that whilst the
civil law enforces in the contract of sale generally the broadest obligation of warranty, it has so narrowed it, when dealing
with credits and incorporeal rights, as to confine it to the title
of the seller and to the existence of the credit sold, and, e conVerso, the common law, which restricts warranty within a narrow compass, virtually imposes the same duty by broadening
the warranty as regards personal property so as to impose the
obligation on the vendor to deliver the thing sold as a condition of the principal contract or by implication of warranty as to
the identity of the thing sold. By these processes of reasoning
the two great systems, whilst apparently divergent in principle
practically work substantially to the same salutary conclusions.
There are many questions discussed in the brief of counsel
which we do not notice, and which we content ourselves with
saying are without merit. The views above stated are controlling and decisive of the case and lead necessarily to the
reversal of the judgment. As the case was heard upon a stipulation waiving a jury and upon an agreed statement of facts,
it is our duty, in reversing, to direct that the proper judgment
be entered below. Fort Scott v. Hickman, 112 U. S. 150, and
cases there cited.
It follows that
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be rever8ed, and
the case be remanded with directions to enterjudgmentfor
plaint4fs for eight thousand three hundred and eightythree dollars and seventy-je cents ($8383.75) with intrest
from judicial demand and costs.

