KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. KALINSKI.
Syllabus.

determined with any .certainty whether the plaintiff could
have left his wagon without risk of being injured.
Upon a careful examination of the record, we have no reason to doubt that the case was fairly submitted to the jury;
and no error of law to the prejudice of the defendant's rights
having occurred, the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Utah affirming the judgment of the trial court is
Affirmed.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. KALINSKI.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 26S. Argued May 1, 1896.-Declded May IS, 1806.

A society extending throughout the country, which was divided into lodges,
whose members were subject to an annual lodge assessment and had also
the right to become members of a separate assessable organization, within
the society, called the endowment fund, having had some differences with
a member who had paid all his endowment assessments but was in
arrear for his dues to his lodge, the supreme head, (called the board of
control,) after careful consideration, decided that in view of the fact
that the keeper of records and seals of the lodge to which he belonged failed to notify the section of which he was a member of the
fact that he was in arrears for dues to his lodge and that the lodge had
failed to suspend him in accordance with the law, and that his section
of the endowment rank had received his monthly assessments up to the
date of his death, the endowment rank was liable for the full amount of
the endowment. Held, that while the courts are not bound by this construction of the organization, the association has no right to complain if
its certificate holders act upon such interpretation, and is not in a position to claim that the ruling was more liberal than the facts of the case
or a proper construction of the rules would warrant; and that whether
the ruling was right or wrong it established a course of business on the
part of the society, upon which its certificate holders had a right to rely.
The continued receipt of assessments upon an endowment certificate up to
the day of the holder's death is, under the circumstances of this ease,
a waiver of any technical forfeiture by reason of non-payment of lodge
dues.
1 The docket title of this case is "The Supreme Lodge Knights of
Pythias of the World, plaintiff in error, v. Mrs. Eugenie Kalinski."

VOL. CLXM-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action originally begun in the Civil District
Court of the parish of Orleans, in the State of Louisiana, by
the defendant in error, Eugenie Kalinski, to recover of the
Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias of the World, an association incorporated under an act of Congress, and domiciled in
Washington, the amount of a certain certificate of membership, whereby the defendant contracted and bound itself to
pay to petitioner on the death of her husband, Achille Kalinski,
the sum of $3000 -the said certificate being in effect a life
insurance policy.
The case was removed, upon the petition of the defendant,
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, upon an allegation that the defendant was
created by and organized under an act of Congress, approved
May 5, 1870 ; that it was domiciled in Washington, and that
the controversy arose under and was to be determined by such
act of Congress; that the suit was based upon a beneficial or
life certificate issued under authority of such act of Congress,
and the defence to said suit arose under the laws of the United
States.
The answer admitted that during his lifetime the said
Achille Kalinski became a member of the endowment rank
of the order of Knights of Pythias, in section 363 thereof,
paid the initiation fee, and that there was issued to him the
certificate mentioned in the petition. But it denied that Kalinski, during his lifetime, complied with the obligations imposed
upon him under such certificate, and averred that, under the
terms of his application for membership in said endowment
rank, and in the said certificate, and the constitution and bylaws of said endowment rank Knights of Pythias of the World,
all being and forming parts of the contracts between them, it
was provided that any failure or neglect on the part of said Kalinski to pay assessments or dues, as provided by the laws of
the rank or order, should work a forfeiture of all his rights
and the rights of his heirs and beneficiaries, in the premises, to
all benefits and privileges accruing to members of said rank.
That by said laws it was, among other things, especially provided that when a member of the endowment rank became in

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. KALINSKI.
Opinion of the Court.

arrears to his lodge, for an amount equal to one year's dues,
he should forfeit his membership in the endowment rank, and
his endowment certificate should thereupon become void.
The answer further averred that, at the time of his death,
:May 24, 1891, Kalinski was in arrears for, owed and was indebted to Syracuse Lodge, No. 50, of said order, of which he
was a member, or to which he belonged, in an amount in excess of one year's dues, and that he had, at the time of his
death, forfeited his membership in the said section and rank,
and the said certificate became null and void. It further
averred that, after being so in arrears, and the forfeiture of all
rights as aforesaid, of which forfeiture, however, your respondent was then, without its fault or negligence, unaware, said
Kalinski paid certain assessments under such certificate; but
that, as soon as made aware of the forfeiture, heretofore mentioned, respondent made legal tender to the plaintiff of the
amount of such assessments so paid, and that she refused the
same.
In a supplemental answer defendant deposited in court and
tendered back to plaintiff the amount of assessments so paid,
namely, $16.20, with 5 per cent interest thereon from April 1,
1891, to date.
The case came on for trial before the District Judge and a
jury, was tried twice, and resulted each time in a verdict and
judgment for plaintiff for the full amount of her certificate
or policy, and upon writ of error to the Circuit Court of
Appeals that judgment was affirmed. Whereupon defendant
sued a writ of error from this court.
Mr. J. Z. Spearing for plaintiff in error, .Mr. C. S. Rice
was on his brief.

Mr. . Mzarka for defendant in error. .MXr. "' liam Armatrong was on his brief.
Mn1

JuSmioE BnRowx, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It seems that during his lifetime Achille Kalinski became

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

a member of section 363 of what is termed the endowment
rank of the Knights of Pythias, paid his admission fee, and
in consideration thereof, and in compliance with a written
application made by him, the defendant, the supreme lodge
of the order, issued to him a certificate which is in substance
a policy of life insurance, wherein it was certified that Kalinski was a member in good standing in the endowment rank,
and in consideration of the representations made in his application, which was made a part of the contract, and the payment of the prescribed admission fee, and in consideration
of the payment thereafter to said endowment rank of all
assessments as required, and "the full compliance with all the
laws governing this rank now in force or that may hereafter
be enacted, and shall be in good standing under said laws,"
the sum of $3000 will be paid, etc., to Eugenie Kalinski, his
wife, etc. "And it is understood and agreed that any violation of the within-mentioned conditions, or the requirements
of the laws in force governing this rank, shall render the
certificate and all claims null and void, and that the said supreme lodge shall not be liable for the above sum, or any part
thereof." In his application Kalinski agreed that he would
punctually pay all dues and assessments for which he might
become liable, and would be governed, "and this contract shall
be controlled by all the laws, rules and regulations of the order
governing this rank now in force or that may hereafter be enacted, or submit to the penalties therein contained." One of
the laws and regulations adopted by the board of control was
that "when a member of the endowment rank becomes in
arrears to his lodge for an amount equal to one year's dues
he shall forfeit his membership in the section and said rank,
and render void his endowment certificate."
It further appeared that Kalinski was a Member of Syracuse
Lodge, lo. 50, and that the books of said lodge, which were
produced in evidence, showed that he was indebted to the
lodge on the 31st day of March, 1891, and at the date of his
death, May 24, 1891, in the sum of $12.50, for dues owing by
him to his said lodge, under a by-law, which said sum was
in excess of one year's dues he was required to pay, but that

KGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. KALhNSKI.
Opinion of the "Court.

he had not been suspended by his lodge for that reason before
his death, under the provisions of sec. 5 of article 16 of the
constitution of the lodge, and sec. 3 of article 14 of the bylaws, although he had received notice from the proper officer
of the lodge to pay the same, and had been told to pay the
same before th- next meeting of the lodge, but that he died
before 8ucA meeting without having paid the same.
It further appeared, and was not disputed, that the keeper
of the records and seal of Syracuse Lodge, No. 50, had under
see. 6, article 4 of the constitution of the lodge, failed to
notify the section of the endowment rank to which Kalinski
belonged that he was in arrears, and that the assessments due
by Kalinski to the endowment rank were received in ignorance
of the fact that he was so in arrears, and had been tendered
back after his death, and several months subsequent to the
application of his widow for payment of the policy. In this
connection the defendant requested the court to charge the
jury as follows: "If you find that Kalinski was in arrears
and indebted to his lodge for dues at the date of his death in
an amount equal in amount to one year's dues, you must find
as a conclusion from the fact that he had forfeited his membership in the endowment rank, and that the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover in this suit. And the receipt of assessments by the officers of said endowment rank (which dues
it is admitted have been tendered back, as hereinbefore set
forth) previous thereto, if in ignorance of the fact that he was
so in arrears, was not a waiver of said forfeiture."
But the court refused to give the charge as requested, and
in lieu thereof charged the jury as follows:
"As to the construction of the meaning as matter of law, of
the fundamental law, and of the orders of defendants' organizations, I adopt the views of the board of control of the defendants' orders in case of John A. Manikheim, and I instruct
the jury that if the jury finds as a fact that the keeper of records and seal of the order to which Mr. Kalinski belonged
failed to notify the section of which he was a member of the
fact that he was in arrears for dues to said lodge, and also that
said lodge failed to suspend Mr. Kalinskiin accordance with law,

OCTOBER TERMT,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

and also the section of the endowment rank had received the
monthly assessments of said Kalinski up to the date of his
death, then the verdict will be for the plaintiff and against
the defendant for the sum of $3000, with interest from
judicial demand."
From a comparison of the instruction as requested with that
as given, it is apparent that the case turns upon the question
whether the mere non-payment of lodge dues was sufficient
to work a forfeiture of the certificate in view of the fact that
the insured kept up his assessment, which the supreme lodge
received without inquiring whether the insured was indebted
for his lodge dues or not. Broadly construed, the application
required that the contract should be controlled by the laws,
rules and regulations of the order governing the rank. The
certificate also required "a full compliance with all the laws
governing this rank now in force or that may hereafter be
enacted," and that the insured should be in good standing
under said laws. What other laws governing this rank must
have been complied with to prevent a forfeiture of the insurance does not appear; but if the application and certificate
be literally construed, it is evident that a breach of any one
of the regulations governing the rank, however numerous or
unimportant they may have been, or a failure of the insured'
to remain in good standing under the laws of the order, which
certainly opens a wide door to differences of opinion, could
be seized upon as an excuse for non-payment.
It will be observed, however, that the endowment rank or
insurance feature of this order was in reality a separate
scheme, and had no other apparent connection with the order
than in the fact that no one who was not a member of the
order could become a member of the endowment rank.
Entirely separate accounts were kept with each member, as
belonging to the lodge, and as a member of the endowment
rank or policy holder. The fees that were due to the lodge
as a condition of membership in it do not seem to have formed
any part of the consideration for the certificate or policy, which
consideration consisted of certain assessments, that appear in
this case to have been promptly paid. The provision that the

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. KALINSKI.
Opinion of the Court.

applicant should comply fully with all the laws governing
the endowment rank then in force, or which might thereafter
be enacted, and should also maintain a good standing under
such laws, is one of a very elastic nature, and one which could
not be fully complied with without a thorough knowledge of
such laws, and of the requisites of good membership. In
this case it is alleged to have been violated by the fact that
on March 31, Kalinski became indebted to the lodge of which
he was a member in the sum of $12.50, which was an amount
in excess of one year's dues. His attention was called to this
by the proper officer of the lodge, who told him to pay the
sum before the next meeting of the lodge. He died, however,
on May 24th, and before such meeting was held, leaving this
amount unpaid. It might be argued with great plausibility
that, in view of the fact that the officers of the lodge told
him. to pay before the next lodge meeting, the defendant was
bound thereby, and must have been held to waive its right to
a prompt payment of the lodge dues, and that as Kalinski
died before the time allowed had expired, he was not even
technically in fault.
But, however, this may be, the officials of the order appear
to have been guilty of delinquencies of their own, which
ought to estop them from insisting upon the failure of Kalinski to comply with the letter of his agreement to abide by
the laws and regulations of the rank. Under the laws, rules
and regulations for the government of sections of the endowment rank, it was the duty of the secretary of each section
to keep a financial account with each member of the section,
and in January 'of each year to furnish to the -master of
finance of the lodge to which the members of the section
belonged, a list of the names of such members, and to request the officer to promptly inform him whenever a member on said list became in arrears for an amount equal to
one year's dues. It was also the duty of the master of
finance of Syracuse Lodge, No. 50, to notify in writing all
members who were about to become in arrears, and to again
notify them on the eve of suspension. It was also his duty
to notify his lodge when a member owed to the amount of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

twelve months' dues, or its equivalent, after which notification it became the duty of the chancellor commander to suspend him in open lodge, and to keep a record of the same
in the minutes. It seems to have been also the duty of the
keeper of records and seal of each lodge to notify the proper
section of the endowment rank, whenever a member became
in arrears for dues to the lodge, when, and not until then,
the certificate of membership in the endowment rank became the subject of forfeiture. Indeed, the failure to do this,
and the continued receipt of the monthly assessments upon
the policy of endowment, appear to have been treated by the
board of control as a waiver of the right to insist upon the
forfeiture of the certificate or policy.
By the constitution of the endowment rank, the entire
charge and full control was put in a board of control, which
had power to hear and determine all appeals, their findings
being final unless reversed by the supreme lodge in session.
They also had authority to enact general laws, rules and
regulations, in conformity with the constitution, for the government of sections and the membership of the endowment
rank, and to alter and amend such laws at their discretion.
It seems that, in the case of Manikheim, a member of, the 'endowment rank at Washington, the board of control was called
upon, in 1887, to give a construction to the rules and regulations of the endowment rank, upon a state of facts similar in
all respects to the facts in this case. From the journal of the
supreme lodge, which was put in evidence in this case, it
appeared that, at the time of his death, Manikheim was in
arrears to 'his lodge for one year's dues, but had paid all his
assessments to his section of the endowment rank.
Upon receipt of this information the supreme secretary
refused to furnish a blank proof of death, and instructed the
secretary of said section to return to the beneficiaries the
monthly assessments, which were erroneously collected from
said JMfanikheim. This was refused by the beneficiaries, who
demanded payment in full of the certificate of membership.
Upon the matter being laid before the board of control, it
decided, after a very careful consideration of the facts in the

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. KALINSKI.
Oplnion of the Court.

ease, that in view of the fact that the keeper of records and seal
of the lodge to which Manikheim belonged failed to notify the
section of which he was a member of the fact that he was in
arrears for dues to his lodge, and that the lodge had failed to
suspend him in accordance with the law, and that his section of
the endowment rank had received his monthly assessments up
to the date of his death, the endowment rank was liable for the
full amount of the endowment, and the supreme secretary
was instructed to pay the beneficiaries the amount due.
In compliance with this ruling, the supreme chancellor of
the order appears to have issued a circular letter to the subordinate chancellors to the effect that, in order to carry out
the provisions of the law that "when a member of the endowment rank becomes in arrears to his lodge on account of dues
for more than six months" (changed from one year) "he shall
forfeit his membership in the section and said rank, and render void the endowment certificate," it was necessary that
the secretaries of the various sections of the endowment rank
be duly notified when members of such rank became in arrears
for dues to their respective lodges. - And he therefore requested
the grand chancellors to instruct their subordinate lodges to
forward to the secretary of such sections of the endowment
rank as were tributary to their lodges, an official notice of the
fact that any member was in arrears for dues, said notice of
arrears to be signed by the master of finance and attested by
the keeper of the records and seal, with the seal of the lodge
attached. And to properly carry this into effect the secretaries
of the various sections of the endowment rank were instructed
to officially certify to the keeper of records and seal of the respective lodges, to which the members of a section belonged,
a full and complete list of the members of said section, etc.
While it is entirely true, as claimed by the plaintiff in error,
that this was res inter alios aota, and, therefore, not available
by way of estoppel, it is none the less true that it was an interpretation put by the supreme authority of the order upon
their somewhat -ambiguous and, complicated system of rules
and regulations, and that it would be unjust to the board of
control to assume that Kalinski, who was an ordinary member

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the endowment rank and apparently an unlearned man,
was wiser than they, and was bound to put a construction
upon these regulations more unfavorable to himself than the
board of control had construed them. Upon the contrary,
we think that the certificate holders were entitled to rely
upon the construction given to these rules and regulations by
the highest tribunal of the order, and to presume that the
supreme lodge would not enforce a forfeiture under circumstances which the board of control had held did not create
one. Although we would not be understood as saying that we
should feel bound by the construction put upon the rules and
regulations of a private order by the board of control or
supreme council of such order, we think that the association
has no right to complain if its certificate holders act upon
such interpretation, and that it is not in a position to claim
that this ruling in their favor was more liberal than the facts
of the case or a proper construction of these rules would
warrant. Whether the decision were right or wrong it established a course of business on the part of the defendant, upon
which its certificate holders had a right to rely. Isurane
Co. v. Eggle~ton, 96 U. S. 572.
Aside from this, however, we think the continued receipt
of assessments upon Kalinski's certificate up to the day of his
death was a waiver of any technical forfeiture of the certificate by reason of the non-payment of the lodge dues. Granting that the continued receipt of premiums or assessments
after a forfeiture has occurred will only be construed as a
waiver when the facts constituting a forfeiture are known to
the company, &8aurance Co. v. Wo/f,95 U. S. 326; Bennecke
v. inurance Co., 105 U. S. 355, this is true only of such facts
as are peculiarly within the knowledge of the assured. If the
company ought to have known of the facts, or with proper
attention to its own business, would have been apprised of
them, it has no right to set up its ignorance as an excuse. In
the ordinary course of business between the lodges and the
sections of the endowment rank, and under the instructions
contained in the circular of the supreme chancellor of May 20,
1887, it became the duty of the keeper of the records and seal

HENNINGTON

v. GEORGIA.

Syllabus.

of the lodge to which Kalinski belonged to notify the secietary of the proper section of the endowment rank of the fact
that he was in arrears for dues, and his failure to do this should
be imputed to the defendant, as representing the order, rather
than to Kalinski. It is more than possible that, as the endowment rank was a separate and distinct feature from the lodges,
Kalinski was wholly ignorant of the fact that a failure to pay
his lodge dues promptly forfeited his certificate; and while,
as matter of law, he might be chargeable with notice of this
fact, his beneficiary has a perfect right to insist that the defendant was guilty of a technical dereliction of its own duty
in the premises. The defence in any aspect does not commend itself highly to one's sense of natural justice, and, for
the reasons above stated, we are of the opinion that the decision of the court below was right, and it is, therefore,
-A4frrned.

HENNINGTON v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No.

0. Argued March IT,18, 1896.-Decided May 18,1896.

The legislation of the State of Georgia, contained In §§ 4578 and 4310 of
the Code of 1882, forbidding the running of freight trains on any railroad
In the State on Sunday, and providing for the trial and punishment, on
conviction, of the superintendent of a railroad company violating that
provision, although It affects interstate commerce In a limited degree,
is not, for that reason, a needless Intrusion upon the domain of Federal
jurisdiction, nor strictly a regulation of interstate commerce, but Is an
ordinary police regulation, designed to secure the well-being, and to promote the general welfare of the people within the State, and Is not invalid by force alone of the Constitution of the United States ; but Is to
be respected in the courts of the Union until superseded and displaced
by some act of Congress, passed in execution of the power granted to
It by the Constitution.
There Is nothing in the legislation in question In this case that suggests
that it was enacted with the purpose to regulate Interstate commerce, or
with any other purpose than to prescribe a rule of civil duty for all who,
on the Sabbath day, are within the territorial jurisdiction of the State.

