DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.

63

Syllabus

allottee, that is, the limit of minority. And such limit must
be applied to sales voluntary and involuntary, and cut off the
right of a guardian to dispose of the estate. The fact that the
patent to this allottee had already been issued did not abridge
the right of the United States to add with the consent of the
tribe a new limitation to the power of the individual Indian
in respect to alienation. The land and the allottee were both
still under the charge and care of the Nation and the tribe,
and they could agree for still further protection, a protection
which no individual was at liberty to challenge.
It follows, therefore, that at the time of this assumed
power of the guardian of Esther Wilson to dispose of her
realty such realty was inalienable, and a deed made by the
guardian, though under the authority of the probate court of the
county of the State in which the lands were situated, conveyed
no title. That this conclusion renders ineffective an attempt
to dispose of the lands of an Indian girl, at the price of seventy-five cents an acre, does not any the less commend it to
one's sense of justice.
Ajmed.
The judgment is

DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 230. Argued April 17, 1S6M.-Decided

May 4, 1896.

In a suit in a state court to quiet title, two claims to title were set up by
the plaintiff. The first was that his title had been acquired by adverse
possession, sufficient under the local law. On this point the trial court
found that, in 1862, the plaintiff's grantor entered into possession of the

land in question, and that he and the plaintiff had since been continuously and then were in actual, notorious and adverse possession thereof,
under color and claim of title. The second claim was under a deed from
husband and wife, executed by the former under an alleged power of
attorney from the latter which bad been lost without having been

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
recorded. On this point the trial court found that the existence and validity of the power of attorney was established. It entered a decree that the
plaintiff was entitled to the possession of the land, that the defendant
was not the owner of it, that the cloud be removed, and that the power
of attorney be established. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State this decree was affirmed. The case being brought here by writ of
error the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State certified that
the question had been duly raised in the trial court whether the said
power and the deed made under it, which, by the law at the time of its
making were absolutely void, were made valid by the territorial act of
February 2, 1888, and whether, if so made valid, it was not in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. Held, that, as it was
settled in the State that actual, uninterrupted and notorious possession,
under claim of right, was sufficient without color of title, and that a
void deed, accompanied with actual occupancy, was sufficient to set the
statute of limitations in motion, the judgment could be sustained on the
first point, which raised no Federal question, and that consequently this
court was without jurisdiction.
If the record discloses that a question has been raised and decided adversely
to a party claiming the benefit of a provision of the Constitution of the
United States, and another question not Federal has also been raised and
decided against such party, and the decision of the latter question is sufficient notwithstanding the Federal question to sustain the decision, this
court will not review the judgment.
If it appears that the court did in fact base its judgment on such independent ground, or, where it does not appear on which of the two grounds
the judgment was based, if the independent ground on which it might
have been based was a good and valid one, sufficient in itself to sustain
the judgment, this court will not assume jurisdiction.
This result cannot be in any respect controlled by the certificate of the presiding judge, for the office of the certificate, as it respects the Federal
question, is to make more certain and specific what is too general and indefinite in the record, but it is incompetent to originate the question.
If the conflict of a state law with the Constitution and the decision by the
state court in favor of its validity are relied on, this must appear on the
face of the record before the decision can be regxamined in this court,
and this is equally true where the denial of a title, right, privilege or
immunity under the Constitution and laws of the United States, or the
validity of an authority exercised under the United States, is urged as
the ground of jurisdiction.
No rule is more firmly established than that this court will follow the construction given by the Supreme Court of a State to a statute of limitations
of a State, and there is no reason for disregarding it In this instance.

Tins was a complaint filed by the Bellingbam Bay Land
Company against Carmi Dibble in the Superior Court of

DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.

65

Statement of the Case.

Whatcom County, Washington, on June 7, 1891, seeking a
decree quieting plaintiff's title to certain lands therein described, and establishing the existence and validity of a certain
power of attorney alleged to have been lost without having
been recorded. Defendant disclaimed as to the west half of
the property in question, and, after demurrer overruled to an
amended complaint, answered by way of denial and assertion
of defendant's claim set out in the complaint, and also by way
of cross-complaint. A trial was had on issues joined and the
Superior Court filed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
The court found that plaintiff was a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington, with full powers to purchase, own and sell real estate;
that on or prior to March 28, 1862, Thomas Jones and Betsy
Jones, his wife, were the owners of a certain donation land
claim situated in the county of Whatcom and Territory of
Washington, as particularly described; that these lands were
donated to Thomas Jones and his wife, under the donation
laws of the United States, and that by virtue of the division
which was made of them by the surveyor general, and by the
certificate and patent, the west half of the lands was donated
to Thomas Jones and the east half to Betsy Jones, his wife.
The court further found that on March 28, 1862, for a valuable
consideration paid therefor, Thomas Jones for himself and as
attorney in fact for his wife, executed good and sufficient
deeds of conveyance for all the tract of land to Edward Eldridge, and that since that date Eldridge had duly conveyed
the premises to plaintiff, a small parcel excepted; that prior
to the execution of the deed by Jones for himself and his wife,
Betsy Jones had duly executed and delivered her power of
attorney to Thomas, authorizing him to sell and convey the
lands; that the power of attorney was executed under the seal
of said Betsy, and was duly acknowledged and witnessed and
properly certified, but that the same was not placed on the
records of the county, but became and still remained lost, and
at the date of the execution of the deed had not been revoked.
The court then described the parcel conveyed by Eldridge to
other parties than plaintiff.
VOL. CLXII--- 5

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

The court further found that "on the said 28th day of

March, 1862, the said Eldridge entered into possession of all
of the said donation claim of Thomas Jones and Betsy Jones,
and that from that date to the present time the said Edward
Eldridge and his grantees, including the plaintiff in this case,
have been continuously and now are in the actual, open, notorious, and adverse possession of all of the said property,
under claim and color of title, excepting only the small parcels
hereinbefore referred to as having been conveyed to other
persons by the said Edward Eldridge; "that neither the defendant nor his grantors, ancestors or predecessors had been
seized or possessed of the said premises or any part or parcel
thereof at any time since the said 28th day of March, 1862,
and that the defendant is not now in possession of the said
land ;" that defendant claimed to be the owner of the premises, and to have procured deeds for the land from persons
claiming to be the heirs of Betsy Jones, and had caused these
deeds to be recorded in Whatcom County, and had created a
cloud upon plaintiff's title; that there was not sufficient evidence to establish the fact that Betsy Jones died intestate, or
that the persons under whom defendant claimed, Lovatt and
others, were the heirs at law of Betsy Jones; that at the time
when defendant claimed to have purchased the property from
these alleged heirs he had full notice and knowledge of the
conveyance previously made by Thomas Jones for himself
and his wife, and that he had notice of the existence of the
power of attorney under which Jones conveyed as attorney in
fact for his wife, and had notice that plaintiff was in possession of the premises, claiming to be the owner under the
Jones' deed; and "that it and its immediate grantors had
been in the possession of the said premises for more than ten
years last past."
The Superior Court found as conclusions of law that plaintiff was entitled to the relief prayed, (including, among other
things, the establishment of "the existence and validity of
the said power of attorney,") and entered a decree that plaintiff was the owner and in possession and entitled to the possession of the land in question excepting the enumerated

DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.

67

Opinion of the Court.

parcel; that defendant was not the owner of the premises or
any part or parcel thereof; and that the cloud created upon
the title of the property by the deeds to defendant from
Lovatt and others be removed, and plaintiff's title be quieted
against all claims of defendant; and "that the said power of
attorney from the said Betsy Jones to Thomas Jones, her
husband, be and the same is hereby established;" and for
costs.
The cause was then taken on appeal to the Supreme Court
of the State and the decree below affirmed. 4 Wash. 764.
Of the four judges of the Supreme Court who participated
in the decision, all concurred in the judgment, and three, including the Chief Justice, in the opinion. Thereafter the
Chief Justice signed a certificate and this writ of error was
brought.
.Mr. A fred I. Black, (with whom was -Mr. E. B. Leaming
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
M.. T A. Kerr, (with whom was Mr. T. Lair -ill
brief,) for defendant in error.

on the

XF- CHIEF JusTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
By section two of article XXVII of the constitution of the
State, all laws in force in the Territory of Washington not
repugnant to that constitution were continued in force until
they expired by their own limitation or were altered or repealed by the legislature.
By section five of the territorial act of February 2, 1S88,
brought forward as section 1447 of the General Statutes,
(1 Hill's Statutes and Codes, 506,) it was provided that all
powers of attorney theretofore made and executed by any
married woman joined with her husband and duly acknowledged and certified, and all powers of attorney theretofore
made or executed by husband or wife to the other, authorizing the sale or other disposition of real estate duly acknowl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

edged, and all conveyances theretofore and thereafter executed under and by virtue of such powers of attorney and
acknowledged and certified as provided, should be valid and
binding, but no rights vested in third persons should be affected by anything in the section contained.
Plaintiff in error contends that the validity of that section
was drawn in question as repugnant to the Fourteenth Article
of Amendment to the Constitution, and its validity sustained
in that the Supreme Court of the State held that the power
of attorney and deed executed under it were thereby
validated.
The certificate of the Chief Justice of that court was to the
effect that in the trial by the court below and on the hearing
on appeal, "the following question was duly and regularly
raised, to wit: Whether the power of attorney alleged to,
exist and to have been made by Betsy Jones to her husband,
Thomas Jones, prior to the 28th day of March, A.D. 1862,
and a deed executed under it to Edward Eldridge on the 28th
day of March, 1862, which said power of attorney and deed,.
on the respective dates of the execution thereof, were absolutely void, were made valid and effective by the retrospective portion of section 1447 of volume one of HilPs Code of
this State;" and that the section thus applied was in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment; and further that the Supreme
Court "did not express any written opinion on the question
so raised as aforesaid, except such as is necessarily involved
by the decree of this court in the above entitled action, dated
on the seventeenth day of September, A.D. 1892, and affirming the whole of the decree of the Superior Court ot Whatcom
County, State of Washington, in the above entitled action,
entered and filed in the office of the clerk of the said Superior
Court on the 20th day of February, A.D. 1892; and such
opinion as is expressed by the statement of this court in its
written opinion in the above entitled action, that the color of
title necessary to support a claim by adverse possession in
respondent, the Bellingham Bay Land Company, rests and
depends solely upon a warranty deed from the owner, Betsy
Jones, executed by her husband, Thomas Jones, by virtue of

DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.

69

Opinion of the Court.

the power of attorney urged and alleged by respondent to
have been made valid by the retrospective part of the said
code section; which said statement, as set forth in the opinion
of this court, is an integral and necessary part of the decision
by this court rendered in affirming the said decree of the
lower court."
In respect of the Supreme Court, it is provided by section
5 of the Code of Procedure of Washington that: "In the
determination of causes, all decisions of the court shall be in
writing, and the grounds of the decision shall be stated;" and
by sections 68 and 73 it is made the duty of its clerk to record
its proceedings and enter its orders, judgments and decrees.
And the thirteenth rule of the court provides that "all opinions
of the court shall be recorded by the clerk in a well bound
volume, and the original filed with the papers in the case."
2 Washington, 689.
It is the settled course of decision that this court may examine opinions so delivered and recorded to ascertain the
ground of the judgment of the state court. .Kreigerv. Shelby
.Ra-iloadCo., 125 U. S.39, 44.
If the record discloses that a question has been raised and
decided adversely to a party claiming the benefit of a provision
of the Constitution of the United States, and another question
not Federal has also been raised and decided against such
party, and the decision of the latter question is sufficient notwithstanding the Federal question to sustain the decision, this
court will not review the judgment. EuWt?8 v. Bolles, 150
U. S. 361, 366.
If it appears that the court did in fact base its judgment on
such independent ground, or, where it does not appear on
which of the two grounds the judgment was based, if the
independent ground on which it might have been based was a
good and valid one, sufficient in itself to sustain the judgment,
this court will not assume jurisdiction. .Klingerv. .Missouri,
13 Wall. 25-7.
Nor can this result be in any respect controlled by the certificate of the presiding judge, for the office of the certificate,
as it respects the Federal question, is to make more certain

OCTOBER TEREM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and specific what is too general and indefinite in the record,
but it is incompetent to originate the question. Parmelee v.
Lawrence, 11 Wall. 36; Powell v. Brunswick County, 150
U. S. 433.
If the conflict of a state law with the Constitution and the
decision by the state court in favor of its validity are relied
on, this must appear on the face of the record before the
decision can be regxamined in this court, and this is equally
true where the denial of a title, right, privilege or immunity
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, or the
validity of an authority exercised under the United States, is
urged as the ground of jurisdiction.
In its opinion the Supreme Court of Washington, after
stating the case, said: "The proof of two facts was attempted
by the respondent, the establishment of either of which would
be fatal to appellant's claim. The facts attempted to be
proven were as follows: (1) That plaintiff's title to the land
in controversy had been acquired by adverse possession;
(2) that Betsy Jones had executed a power of attorney to
her husband, Thomas Jones, authorizing him to sell the disputed premises." Thereupon, after overruling a contention
by the appellant that under the pleadings as framed no testimony tending to prove adverse holding was admissible, the
court took up the first proposition, and held that plaintiff had
.established his title by adverse possession during the statutory
period; that the adverse possession was actual, notorious, exclusive and continuous, under claim or color of title; that
Eldridge entered into possession under the highest claim of
title, to wit, a warranty deed from the owners, and on the
day he received the deed, which was recorded the next
day, took actual possession of the land, and maintained it for
over twenty-nine years before the commencement of the action
or any assertion of defendant's claim; and that defendant had
knowledge of Eldridge's reputed ownership prior to his acquisition of the rights -of the alleged heirs. Having reached
this result, the court added: "This renders an investigation of
the second proposition discussed unnecessary." Thus it appears that the decision of the court rested on a ground that

DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.

71

Opinion of the Court.

did not involve the question of the validity of the power of
attorney and deed. As the record disclosed this ground of
defence, and as the opinion put the decision solely on that
ground, it would be quite inadmissible to allow a certificate
of the presiding judge to overthrow that conclusion. This
certificate does not have that effect, and we cannot believe
that any such result was intended. It was evidently drawn
by counsel, as was indeed admitted at the bar, and states that
a Federal question was duly raised, but the Chief Justice declined to say that it was decided except as such decision might
be involved in the affirmance of the whole of the decree of
the Superior Court, or by the statement of the court in the
opinion that "the color of title necessary to support a claim
of adverse possession" depended on the deed of Betsy Jones
executed by her husband by virtue of the power of attorney.
Although the Superior Court found as a conclusion of law
that plaintiff was entitled "to have the existence and validity
of the said power of attorney from Betsy Jones established by
decree of the court," yet the terms of the decree in that regard
simply established the power of attorney, which might well
enough be held to mean the establishment of its existence,
it having been lost and not recorded, and not of its validity;
but if a broader signification be attributed, still the affirmance
of the decree, which adjudicated that plaintiff was the owner
and that defendant was not, and quieted the title of plaintiff,
did not amount to a decision of the alleged question, as the
legal efficacy of the power of attorney as a muniment of title
became immaterial in view of the ground on which the decision
of the Supreme Court was placed.
Nbr was the question of the validity of the act of February
2, 1888, necessarily disposed of by anything stated in the
opinion. The judgment proceeded on claim of title as well
as color of title. The court held that Eldridge entered into
and maintained actual possession under claim of title, and it
seems to be settled in Washington that "actual, uninterrupted
and notorious possession, under claim of right, is sufficient
without color of title." -foore v. Brownfeld, 7 Wash. 23.
In Prob t v. PresbyterianChurch, 129 UI. S. 182, this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opiniou of the Court.

held that it was not necessary that the holder by adverse
possession should have a paper title under which he claimed,
if he asserted ownership of the land and this assertion was
accompanied by an uninterrupted possession. Ewing v. Burnet,
11 Pet. 41, and Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328, were cited, and
it was said: "The fair implication in both these cases is that
where possession is taken under claim of title, it sufficiently
shows the intention of the party to hold adversely within the
meaning of the law upon that subject. There is no case to
be found which holds that this adverse claim of title must be
found in some written instrument." In this case the Superior
Court found that Eldridge and his grantees had been nearly
thirty years. "continuously and now are in the actual, open,
notorious and adverse possession of all of the said property
under claim and color of title," and this finding was reiterated
by the Supreme Court.
"The intention guides the entry and fixes its character,"
said the court in Ewing v. Burnet, and the state courts had
no difficulty as to Eldridge's intention in making the entry.
Clearly it was within the province of those courts to determine
what constituted a sufficient claim of ownership to set the
statute in motion. Eldridge entered with the intention of
asserting and did assert ownership, and it was for the state
courts to say what the effect of that adverse possession was,
whether the Jones deed was void or voidable.
Moreover, as to color of title, it is held in Washington
that a void deed, accompanied with actual occupancy, is sufficient to set the statute in motion. Ward v. figgins,7 Wash.
617, 624.
This is the usual rule as to general statutes of limitations,
though as to short statutes in relation to sales of real estate
for taxes a different view has been expressed. Pillow v.
Roberts, 13 How.472; -Hallv. Law, 102 U. S. 461, 466 ; Redfield v. Park8, 132 U. S. 239; Hurd v. Briner,3 Wash. 1.
Prior to December 1, 1881, the limitation of actions for the
recovery of real property or the possession thereof was twenty
years, and this by the territorial act of that date was reduced
to ten years. The general statute of limitations was relied on

DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.

73

Opinion of the Court.

here and there was an adverse possession for nearly thirty
years.
No rule is more firmly established than that this court will
follow the construction given by the Supreme Court of a State
to a statute of limitations of a State, Bauerinann v. Blunt,
147 U. S. 64:7, and we perceive no reason for disregarding it
in this instance.
We are of opinion that jurisdiction cannot be maintained on
the ground that the validity of the act of February 2, 1888,
being section 1447 of the General Laws of Washington, was
drawn in question and its validity sustained.
It is urged that jurisdiction may be sustained on two other
grounds, namely, that a right claimed under the Constitution
and laws of the United States, or the validity of an authority
exercised under the United States, by virtue of the patent
issued for these lands, was denied by the decision; and that
the validity of the territorial act of December 1, 1881, being
section 26 of the Code of 1881, now section 112 of the state
Code of Procedure, (2 Hill, 37,) was drawn in question as
contrary to the Constitution, and its validity sustained.
We are unable to discover that Federal questions in these
particulars were raised or disposed of by the decision.
The contention seems to be that the patent for this land was
not issued until September 6, 1871 ; that the statute of limitations did not begin to run until that date; that as the action
was commenced June 9, 1891, a period of less than twenty
years elapsed between these two dates, and that the decision
of the Supreme Court, if rested on twenty years' adverse
possession, held that the bar commenced at a date anterior to
that of the patent and in that way denied rights claimed
under it ; and if rested on ten years, gave a retrospective
effect to the act of December 1, 1881, as ten years had not
elapsed between that date and the commencement of the
action.
There does not seem to have been any controversy as to the
effect of the issue of the patent. The Superior Court in its
findings simply referred to the fact that by the certificate and
the patent the west half of the land was donated to Thomas

OCTOBER TERI,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

and the east half to Betsey Jones, and found nothing as to
when the patent issued; and the Supreme Court made no
reference to the matter.
If resort be had to the evidence, it appears therefrom that
the patent issued September 6, 1871, and that the right to the
patent matured prior to 1862 when Mrs. Jones left the Territory. The execution and delivery of the patent after the
right to it had become complete were the mere ministerial
acts of the officers charged with that duty. Barney v. Dolph,
97 U. S. 652; Simmons v. Wagner, 101 U. S. 260. The state
courts could properly hold under the circumstances of this
case that the statute of limitations was set in motion when
that right accrued, and was not postponed to the issue of the
patent.
Eldridge did .not occupy the position of a stranger to the
title, not connected therewith by transfer from the original
holder. If the Jones deed was sufficient to sustain claim or
color of title if the patent had issued March 28, 1862, its sufficiency for that purpose could not be rendered any the less by
the issue of the patent at a subsequent time, and, in* any
view of the alleged infirmities of the deed, the patent would
take effect by relation rather than operate extrinsically to the
destruction of the claim under the original owners.
The judgment of the Supreme Court was based on twenty
years' adverse possession. We presume as ยง 760 of the Code
pf 1881 provided that no right accrued before the code took
effect should be affected by its provisions, the court was of
opinion that the act of December 1, 1881, could not be availed
of to lengthen the time originally prescribed. At all events
it was for the state court to determine the applicable bar,
-Hurrayv. Gibson, 15 How. 421, and we cannot take jurisdiction to review its judgment.
Writ of error dismissed.

