OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

should make return to the government in his emolument
account. In section 834: there are two express exceptions to
this rule, and the implication from these is that no others
should be permitted. We do not mean to say that there may
not possibly be others, but we think it should appear by a
clear inference that they were not intended to be included.
The government can only be called upon to pay for services
earned by the district attorney in his official capacity, and for
the fees earned in the performance of these services he should
account to the government in his fee and emolument returns,
unless there be some express exception taking them out of the
general rule.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUST=c

FIEii took no part in the consideration of this

case.

STEAMER COQUITLAM v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 804. Submitted April 20, 1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

The District Court of Alaska is to be regarded as the Supreme Court of
that Territory, within the meaning of the 15th section of the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, and of the order of this court assigning Alaska to the Ninth Circuit; and the decree of the District Court
of Alaska is subject to review by the Circuit Court of Appeals of that
circuit.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. Calderon Carlislefor appellant. .Mr,. fTames Hamilton
Lewis, .ir. J. A. Stratton, Xr. L. C. Gilman, Mr. E. C.
Hjughes, Xr. H, G. Struve, Xr. JT. B. Alten and ir. .Maurice
ZMfficken were on briefs for claimants.
XIr. SoZicitor General for appellees.

STEAIER COQUITLAM v. UNITED STATES.

3-7

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE

LARLAn

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in admiralty brought by the United States in
the District Court of Alaska for the forfeiture of the steamer
Coquitlam, because of an alleged violation of the revenue
laws of the United States.
A decree having been rendered for the United States on
the 18th day of December, 1893, an appeal was prosecuted
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
By the sixth section of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, the
Circuit Courts of Appeals are given jurisdiction to review by
appeal or writ of error the "final decision in the District Court
and the existing Circuit Courts in all cases" other than those
provided for in the fifth section of the act, "1unless otherwise
provided by law." And by the 15th section of the same act
it is declared: "That the Circuit Court of Appeal in cases in
which the judgment of the Circuit Courts of Appeal are
made final by this act shall have the same appellate jurisdiction, by writ of error or appeal, to review the judgments,
orders and decrees of the Supreme Courts of the several Territories as by this act they may have to review the judgments,
orders and decrees of the District Courts and Circuit Courts;
and for that purpose the several Territories shall, by orders of
the Supreme Court to be made from time to time, be assigned
to particular circuits." 26 Stat. 826, 830. In execution of
the duty imposed by that section, this court, by an order
promulgated May 11, 1891, assigned the Territory of Alaska
to the Ninth Judicial Circuit.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit to hear and determine this cause was disputed
by the United States upon these grounds: 1. That the
District Court of Alaska is not a District Court within the
meaning of the sixth section of the above act of 1891, and
was not a District Court belonging to that circuit. 2. That
the District Court of Alaska is not a Supreme Court of a Territory within the meaning of that act and the above order
or rule of this court.
The cause is now before us upon a certificate from the

OCTOBER TERAE, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals as to its jurisdiction to entertain
an appeal from the decree of the District Court of Alaska.
By the act of July 27, 1868, c. 273, the laws of the United
States relating to customs, commerce and navigation were
extended to and over all the mainland, islands and waters
of the Territory ceded to the United States by the treaty
with Russia of March 30, 1867, so far as the same were applicable thereto. 15 Stat. 240. The provisions of that act
were reproduced in sections 1954 to 1976 inclusive of the
Revised Statutes under the title of "Provisions relating to
the unorganized Territory of Alaska." Section 1957 provides: "Until otherwise provided by law, all violations of
this chapter, and of the several laws hereby extended to the
Territory of Alaska and the waters thereof, committed within
the limits of the same, shall be prosecuted in any District
Court of the United States in California or Oregon, or in
the District Courts of Washington; and the collector and
deputy collectors appointed for Alaska Territory, and any
person authorized in writing by either of, them, or by the
Secretary of the Treasury, shall have power to arrest persons
and seize vessels and merchandise liable to fines, penalties or.
forfeitures under this and the other laws extended over the
Territory, and to keep and deliver the same to the marshal
of some one of such courts; and such courts shall have original jurisdiction, and may take cognizance of all cases arising
under this act and the several laws hereby extended over the
Territory, and shall proceed therein in the same manner and
with the like effect as if such cases had arisen within the
district or Territory where the proceedings are brought."
By the first section of the act of May 17, 1884, c. 53, providing a civil government for Alaska, it was declared that
the Territory ceded to the United States by the treaty with
Russia should constitute a civil and judicial district, to be organized and administered as provided in that act. The same
act established "a District Court for said district, with the civil
and criminal jurisdiction of District Courts of the United States
and the civil and criminal jurisdiction of District Courts of the
United States exercising the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts, and

STEAMER COQUITLAM v. UNITED STATES.

349

Opinion of the Court.

such other jurisdiction, not inconsistent with this act, as may
be established by law; and a district judge shall be appointed
for said district, who shall during his term of office reside
therein and hold at least two terms of said court therein in
each year," etc. 23 Stat. 24.
The fifth section provided for the appointment by the President of four commissioners for the District of Alaska, who
should have the jurisdiction and powers of commissioners of
the United States Circuit Courts, and exercise all the duties
and powers, civil and criminal, then conferred on justices of
the peace under the general laws of Oregon, so far as such
laws might be applicable in that district, and not inconsistent
with the laws of the United States. They were also given
jurisdiction, subject to the supervision of the district judge,
of testamentary and probate matters, powers to grant writs
of habeas corvu8, and keep a record of deeds and other instruments of writing relating to the title or transfer of property.
The seventh section declared that the general laws of Oregon then in force should be the law in said district, so far as
the same were applicable and not in conflict with the provisions of that act or the laws of the United States, and that
the District Court so established "shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all cases in equity or those involving a question of
title to land or mining rights or the constitutionality of a law,
and in all criminal offences which are capital." From the
judgment of a commissioner in civil or criminal cases of a particular kind a right of appeal was given to the District Court.
Further, that "writs of error in criminal cases shall issue to
the said District Court from the United States Circuit Court
for the District of Oregon in the cases provided in chapter one
hundred and seventy-six of the laws of eighteen hundred and
seventy-nine; and the jurisdiction thereby conferred upon
Circuit Courts is hereby given to the Circuit Court of Oregon.
And the final judgments or decrees of said Circuit and District
Court may be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the United
States as in other cases." 23 Stat. 24, 25, 26. By the act of
March 3, 1879, c. 176, referred to, the Circuit Courts for each
judicial district were given jurisdiction "of writs of error in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

all criminal cases tried before the District Court where the
sentence is imprisonment, or where, if a fine only, the fine
shall exceed the sum of three hundred dollars." 20 Stat. 354,
c. 176, ยง 1.
Referring to these and the other provisions of the above act
of 1884, it was held in .lfeAllister v. United States, 141 U. S.
174, 179, that "the District Court for Alaska was invested with
the powers of a District Court and a Circuit Court of the
United States, as well as with general jurisdiction to enforce
in Alaska the laws of Oregon, so far as they were applicable
and were not inconsistent with the act and the Constitution
and laws of the United States." See also In re Cooper, 143
U. S. 472, 494.
The act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, created in each circuit a
Circuit Court of Appeals. 26 Stat. 826.
The fourth section provides: "That no appeal, whether by
writ of error or otherwise, shall hereafter be taken or allowed
from any District Court to the existing Circuit Courts, and no
appellate jurisdiction shall hereafter be exercised or allowed
by said existing Circuit Courts, but all appeals by writ of error
or otherwise from said District Courts shall only be subject to
review in the Supreme Court of the United States or in the
Circuit Court of Appeals hereby established, as is hereinafter
provided, and the review, by appeal, by writ of error, or
otherwise, from the existing Circuit Courts shall be had only
in the Supreme Court of the United States or in the Circuit
Courts of Appeals hereby established according to the provisions
of this act regulating the same;" the fifth section, that "a p peals or writs of error may be taken from the District Courts
or from the existing Circuits Courts direct to the Supreme
Court" in certain enumerated cases; the sixth section, "that
the Circuit Courts of Appeals established by this act shall exercise appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal or by writ of
error final decision in the District Court and the existing Circuit Courts in all cases other than those provided for in the
preceding section of this act, unless otherwise provided by
law." The fifteenth section, we have seen, gives the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, in cases in which their judgments are final,

STEAMER COQUITLAH v. UNITED STATES.

351

Opiniou of the Court.

the same jurisdiction to review the judgments of the Supreme
Courts of the Territories assigned to the respective circuits as
they have "to review the judgments, orders and decrees of
the District Courts and Circuit Courts.".
The District and Circuit Courts mentioned in the act of 1891,
and whose final judgments may be reviewed by the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, manifestly belong to the class of courts for
which provision is made in the third article of the Constitution,
namely, constitutional courts, in which the judicial power conferred by the Constitution on the General Government can be
deposited, and the judges of which are entitled, by the Constitution, to receive at stated times a compensation for their
services that cannot be diminished during their continuance in
office, are removable from office only by impeachment, and
hold, beyond the power of Congress to provide otherwise,
during good behavior. American.Ins. Co. v. Canter,1 Pet. 511,
546; Benner v. Porter, 9 How.235, 242; Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall. 434, 447; Hornbuckle v. Toomb8, 18 Wall. 648,
655 ; Good v. Mklartin, 95 U. S.90, 98; Reynolds v. United
State8, 98 U. S. 145, 154; The City of Panama,101 U. S. 453,
465. And it was adjudged in .McAllister v. United States, 141
U. S. 174, 181, that the District Court established in Alaska,
although invested with the civil and criminal jurisdiction of
a District Court of the United States, was a legislative court,
created "in virtue of the general right of sovereignty which
exists in the government, or in virtue of that clause which
enables Congress to make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory belonging to the United States." It
was because the Alaska court was of the latter class that we
held in 3MIAlliste, case that the judge of the District Court
of that Territory could be suspended from office by the
President under the authority conferred by section 1768 of
the Revised Statutes.
It necessarily results that the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit cannot review the final judgments or decrees
of the Alaska court in virtue of its appellate jurisdiction over
the District and Circuit Courts mentioned in the act of
Pffarch 3, 1891.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

But we are of the opinion that such appellate jurisdiction
may be exercised in virtue of the general authority conferred
by the fifteenth section of the act of 1891 upon the Circuit

Court of Appeals to review the judgments of the Supreme
Court of any Territory assigned to such circuit by this court.
That act was necessarily so interpreted by this court when, by
its order of May 11, 1891, 139 U. S. 707, Alaska was assigned
to the Ninth Circuit. Alaska is one of the Territories of the
United States. It was so designated in that order and has
always been so regarded. And the court established by the
act of 1884 is the court of last resort within the limits of
that Territory. It is, therefore, in every substantial sense
the Supreme Court of that Territory.. No reason can be suggested why a Territory of the United States, in which the
court of last resort is called a Supreme Court, should be assigned to some circuit established by Congress that does not
apply with full force to the Territory of Alaska, in which the
court of last resort is designated as the District Court of Alaska.
The title of the territorial court is not so material as its character. Looking at the whole scope of the act of 1891, we do
not doubt that Congress contemplated that the final orders
and decrees of the courts of last resort in the organized Terri'tories of the United States-by whatever name those courts
were designated in legislative enactments -should be reviewed
by the proper Circuit Court of Appeals, leaving to this court
the assignment of the respective Territories among the existing circuits. The only limitation upon the exercise of this
power by this court is found in section thirteen of the act of
1891, authorizing appeals and writs of error to be taken and
prosecuted to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth
Circuit from the decisions of the United States court in the
Indian Territory. But this exception rests upon grounds peculiarly applicable to the Indian Territory, because of the character of its population, and its relation to the Eighth Circuit, and
does not at all militate against the conclusion that Congress
meant by the words "the Supreme Courts of the several Territories," in the fifteenth section of the act of 1891, the highest
courts or the courts of last resort in the Territories, by what-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. GENTRY.

353

Syllabus.

ever name they happen to be designated in the acts creating
them.
Our answer, therefore, to the question certified is, that
The -DistrictCourt of Alaska is to be regarded as the Bu_preme Court of that Territory within the meaning of the
fifteenth section of the act of -March3, 1891, and of the
order of this court assigningAlaska to the Tinth Circuit;
and, consequently, that the decree of the -District Court of
Alaska is subject to review by the Circuit Court of Appyeals
of that circuit.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
GENTRY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 258. Argued April 29,1896.-Delded May 18,1896.

In this case, while there was in form a separate judgment, In favor of each
of the persons for whose benefit the action was brought, the statute of
Texas creates a single liability on the part of the defendant, and contemplates but one action for the sole and exclusive benefit of the surviving husband, wife, children and parents of the persons whose death
was caused in any of the specified modes.
A decree or judgment by the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a decree
or judgment of a Circuit Court, without specifying the sum for which
it Is rendered, Is a final decree or judgment, from which an appeal or
writ of error will lie to this court.
This case was onepeculiarly for the jury, under appropriate instructions from
the court as to the principles of law by which they were to be guided in
reaching a conclusion as to the liability of the railroad company for the
death of Its employd; and the positions taken to the contrary have no
merit.
The law presumes in the entire absence of evidence,that a railroad employ6,
in crossing the track of the railroad on foot at night to go to his duty,
looks and listens for coming trains before crossing.
It is only when facts are such that all reasonable men must draw the same
conclusion from them, that the question of negligence Is ever considered
as one of law for the court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
voL CL=-23

