WEBSTER v. LUTHER.
Syllabus.

It may be said that the rights of a national bank as to interest are given by the Federal statute; that the reference to
the state law is only for a measure of those rights; that a
misconstruction of the state law really works a denial of the
rights given by the Federal statute, and thus creates a Federal question. .Mill&er'8 xecutorm v. Swan, 150 U. S. 132. A
sufficient answer is that the true construction of state legislation is a matter of state jurisprudence, and while the right of
the national bank springs from the act of Congress, yet it is
only a right to have an equal administration of the rule established by the state law. It does not involve a reservation to
the national courts of the authority to determine adversely
to the state courts what is the rule as to interest prescribed by
the state law, but only to see that such rule is equally enforced in favor of national banks. The decision here was not
against any equality of right, but only a determination of the
meaning of the state law as applied to all creditors. It
therefore denied no rights given by the Federal statute and
involved no judgment adverse to plaintiff as to its meaning
and effect. It assumed that the plaintiff's interpretation of
that statute was correct, and ruled nothing against it. It
presents no Federal question. It is broad enough to cover
this case. It was relied upon by the Supreme Court, and,
therefore, the case is, by the settled law as heretofore announced, one which does not come within the jurisdiction of
this court.
The writ of error is
.Dimiwsed.

WEBSTER v. LUTHER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 161.

Submitted Marcb 19, 1896. -Decided

May 18,1896.

Persons entitled under Rev. Stat. ยง 2304 to enter a homestead, in case an
entry Is made for less than 160 acres, may, under ยง 2306, make an additional entry for the deficiency, which right Is transferable.
The instrument executed by Mrs. Robertson through which the defendants
in error claim was not forbidden by any act of Congress, and was valid.

OCTOBER TER1M, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
i.. T Z. TFashburn and -Mr. .Daniel I. Toomey for plaintiff in error.
-.
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, 21r. Cor3Xr. Cushma HDavis,
denio A. Severance, .Mr.George P. WI~isonr and .31. John R.
'Vanderlip for defendants in error. -Mr. A. Jaques, and 31>.
J.J. Hudson for Rouchleau, and Mr..D. G. Cash and i31>. J.
G. Williams for Luther.
MR. JusovxE HARLAw delivered the opinion of the court.

This action involves the title to lots one and two, section
eighteen, in township sixty-two, of range fourteen west,
situated in St. Louis County, Minnesota.
At the trial below, the plaintiff Webster read in evidence,
without objection 1. The application of Mary Robertson, widow of James A.
Robertson, deceased, of Benton County, dated April 7, 1887,
(together with the receipt of the register of the local land
office showing the payment of the fee and commissions prescribed by law,) to enter the lands here in dispute, under
section 2306 of the Revised Statutes, granting additional
lands to soldiers and sailors who served in the war of the
rebellion. 2. The receipt of the proper land office, dated
April 7, 1887, showing the payment in full of the balance required by law for the entry of the above lots, under section
2291 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. 3. A
patent from the United States to Mary A. Robertson for
these lands, issued September 21, 1888, recorded February 11,
1889, in the office of the register of deeds in St. Louis County,
Minnesota, and purporting to have been issued pursuant to
the act of Congress, approved May 20, 1862, "to secure homesteads to actual settlers on the public domain," 12 Stat. 392,
c. 75, and the acts supplemental thereto. This patent recited
that the claim of the patentee to the lots in controversy had
been established and duly consummated in conformity to law.
4. A quitclaim deed of bargain and sale of these premises

WEBSTER v. LUTHER."
Opinion of the Court.

from Mary A. Robertson, widow, to the plaintiff Webster,
dated October 7, 1890, acknowledged October 17, 1890, and
recorded October 22, 1890.
The defendants read in evidence a power of attorney,
dated April 28, 1880, and duly recorded April 8, 1887, from
Mary A. Robertson to James A. Boggs. This instrument
authorized and empowered Boggs, as attorney for his principal, "to sell, upon such terms as to him shall seem meet," any
lands which the principal then owned, either in law or equity,
and obtained by her as "an additional homestead" under the
provisions of section 2306 of the Revised Statutes; to sell any
such lands as she might thereafter acquire under said acts;
to receive the purchase money or other consideration therefor,
and to deliver in the name of the principal such deeds or other
assurance in the law therefor as to the agent seemed meet and
necessary. It contained these additional clauses: "And my
said attorney is hereby authorized to sell said lands, or my
interest therein, and to make any contract in relation thereto
which I might make if present, and to receive for his own use
and benefit any moneys or other property the proceeds of the
sale of said lands, or any interest therein, or arising from any
contract in relation thereto, or received or recovered for any
injury thereto, and I hereby release to my said attorney all
claim to any of the proceeds of any such sale, lease, contract or damages. And I further authorize my said attorney
to appoint a substitute or substitutes to perform any of the
foregoing powers, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
my said attorney or his substitute may lawfully do or cause to
be done by virtue of these presents."
The admission of this power of attorney in evidence was objected to by the plaintiff upon the ground, among others, that
it tended to prove a transaction in fraud of and in contravention of the laws of the United States, and that upon its face it
was contrary to law, against public policy, fraudulent and void.
This objection was overruled and the plaintiff excepted.
The defendants next read in evidence: 1. Two warranty
deeds, each for an undivided one half of these lands, from
Mary A. Robertson, by James A. Boggs, her attorney in

. OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

fact, one to the defendant Louis Rouchleau and the other to
the defendant, Milo J. Luther, each dated April 7, 1887, and
recorded April 15, 1887. 2. A warranty deed executed subsequently to the above deeds, by Louis Rouchleau to the
defendant Luther, for an undivided one fourth of the lands.
The court adjudged that the title was in the defendants,
freed from any claim of the plaintiff.
The question before us is whether the instrument of writing given to Boggs by Mary A. Robertson, under date of
April 28, 1880, and which authorized the former to sell upon
such terms as he deemed meet, and to convey the title to, and
to receive for his own use and benefit the proceeds of the sale
of, any lands obtained by the latter as an "additional homestead" under section 2306 of the Revised Statutes, was consistent with the acts of Congress relating to such matters.
This is a question merely of statutory construction, and is
within a very narrow compass.
By the act of May 8, 1862, 12 Stat. 392, c. 75, certain
persons were given the right, under specified conditions, to
enter one quarter section or a less quantity of unappropriated
public lands. The sections of that act, so far as they bear
upon the present case, were preserved in sections 2289, 2290
and 2291 of the Revised Statutes, which are as follows:
"SEc. 2289. Every person who is the head of a family or
who has arrived at the age of twenty-one years, and is a
citizen of the United States, or who has filed his declaration
of intention to become such, as required by the naturalization
laws, shall be entitled to enter one quarter section or a less
quantity of unappropriated public lands, upon which such
person may have filed a pregmption claim, or which may, at
the time the application is made, be subject to pre~mption
at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre; or eighty acres
or less of such unappropriated lands, at two dollars and fifty
cents per acre, to be located in a body, in conformity to the
legal subdivisions of the public lauds, and after the same have
been surveyed. And every person owning and residing on
land may, under the provisions of this section, enter other
land lying contiguous to his land, which shall not, with the

WEBSTER v. LUTHER.
Opinion of the Court.

land so already owned and occupied, exceed in the aggregate
one hundred and sixty acres.
"SEC.

2290.

The person applying for the benefit of the

preceding section shall, upon application to the register of
the land office in which he is about to make such entry, make
affidavit before the register or receiver that he is the head of
a family, or is twenty-one years or more of age, or has performed service in the army or navy of the United States, and
that such application is made for his exclusive use and benefit,
and that his entry is made for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation, and not either directly or indirectly for
the use or benefit of any other person; and upon filing such
affidavit with the register or receiver, on payment of five
dollars when the entry is of not more than eighty acres, and
on payment of ten dollars when the entry is for more than
eighty acres, he shall thereupon be permitted to enter the
amount of land specified.
"SEC.

2291. No certificate, however, shall be given, or

patent issued therefor, until the expiration of five years from
the date of such entry; and if at the expiration of such time,
or at any time within two years thereafter, the person making
such entry; or if he be dead, his widow; or in case of her
death, his heirs or devisee ; or in case of a widow making such
entry, her heirs or devisee, in case of her death, proves by
two credible witnesses that he, she or they have resided upon
or cultivated the same for the term of five years immediately
succeeding the time of filing the affidavit, and makes affidavit
that no part of such land has been alienated, except as provided in section twenty-two hundred and eighty-eight, and
that he, she or they will bear true allegiance to the government of the United States; then, in such case, he, she or they,
if at that time citizens of the United States, shall be entitled
to a patent, as in other cases provided by law. That the
proof of residence, occupation or cultivation, the affidavit of
non-alienation, and the oath of allegiance, required to be
made by section twenty-two hundred and ninety-one of the
Revised Statutes, may be made before the judge, or, in his
absence, before the clerk, of any court of record of the county

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and State, or district and Territory, in which the lands are
situated; and if said lands are situated in any unorganized
county, such proof may be made in a similar manner in any
adjacent county in said State or Territory; and the proof,
affidavit and oath, when so made and duly subscribed, shall
have the same force and effect if made before the register or
receiver of the proper land district; and the same shall be
transmitted by such judge, or the clerk of his court, to the
register and the receiver, with the fee and charges allowed by
law to him; and the register and receiver shall be entitled
to the same fees for examining and approving said testimony
as are now allowed by law for taking the same. That if any
witness making such proof, or the said applicant making such
affidavit or oath, swears falsely as to any material matter contained in said proof, affidavits or oaths, the said false swearing
being wilful and corrupt, he shall be deemed guilty of perjury,
and shall be liable to the same pains and penalties as if he had
sworn falsely before the register."
On the 4th day of April, 1872, Congress passed an act entitled "An act to enable honorably discharged soldiers and
sailors, their widows and orphan children, to acquire homesteads on the public lands of the United States." 17 Stat. 49,
c. 85. The second section of that act declared that any person entitled under the provisions of the first section "to enter
a, homestead, who may have heretofore entered under the
homestead laws a quantity of land less than one hundred and
sixty acres, shall be permitted to enter under the provisions
of this act so much land as, when added to the quantity previously entered, shall not exceed one hundred and sixty acres."
This section, it will be observed, did not require that the additional land allowed to be entered should adjoin or be contiguous to the land originally entered.
lBut by the act of June 8, c. 338, 1872, 17 Stat. 333, the act
of April 4, 1872, was amended, no substantial change, however, being made in the first section of the last named act.
In place of the second section of the act of April 4, 1872, the
following section was substituted: "That any person entitled,
under the provisions of the foregoing section, to enter a home-

WEBSTER v. LUTHER.
Opinion of the Court.

stead who may have heretofore entered, under the homestead
laws, a quantity of land less than one hundred and sixty acres,
shall be permitted to enter, under the provisions of this act,
so much land contiguous to the tract embraced in the first
entry as, when added to the quantity previously entered, shall
not exceed one hundred and sixty acres." The words "contiguous to the tract embraced in the first entry" clearly indicate
that the person who drew the section had in mind to cut off
the right to enter additional lands that were not contiguous
to those originally entered under the homestead laws.
But the policy indicated by the second section of the act of
June 8, 1872, was soon reversed. For, by the act of March 3,
1S73, 17 Stat. 605, c. 274, section two of the act of June 8,
1872, was amended so as to read as follows: "That any person
entitled under the provisions of the foregoing sections to enter
a homestead, who may have heretofore entered under the
homestead laws a quantity of land less than one hundred and
sixty acres, shall be permitted to enter so much land as, when
added to the quantity previously entered, shall not exceed one
hundred and sixty acres." This act, it will be observed,
omitted the words "under the provisions of this act" and the
words "contiguous to the tract embraced in the first entry,"
that were in the previous act. The effect and, as is manifest,
the object of the last act, were to eliminate from the legislation of Congress allowing additional lands to those who had
entered less than one hundred and sixty acres under the homestead laws, the requirement that the additional lands should
be contiguous to those originally entered.
This view is not at all affected by the revision, for the
sections under which the lands in question were entered make
no substantial change in the previous law. Those sections are
as follows:
"Szc. 2304. Every private soldier and officer who has
served in the Army of the United States during the recent
rebellion, for ninety days, and who was honorably discharged,
and has remained loyal to the government, including the
troops mustered into the service of the United States by
virtue of the third section of an act approved February
VOL. cmxm-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

thirteen, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, and every seaman,
marine, and officer who has served in the Navy of the United
States, or in the -Marine Corps, during the rebellion, for ninety
days, and who was honorably discharged, and has remained
loyal to the government, shall, on compliance with the provisions of this chapter, as hereinafter modified, be entitled to enter
upon and receive patents for a quantity of public lands not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres, or one quarter section, to
be taken in compact form, according to legal subdivisions, including the alternate reserved sections of public lands along
the line of any railroad or other public work, not otherwise reserved or appropriated, and other lands subject to entry under
the homestead laws of the United States; but such homestead
settler shall be allowed six months after locating his homestead,
and filing his declaratory statement, within which to make his
entry and commence his settlement and improvement.
"SEc. 2305. The time which the homestead settler has
served in the Army, Navy or Marine Corps shall be deducted
from the time heretofore required to perfect title, or if discharged on account of wounds received or disability incurred
in the line of duty, then the term of enlistment shall be deducted from the time heretofore required to perfect title
-without reference to the length of time he may have served;
-but no pateft shall issue to any homestead settler who has
not resided upon, improved and cultivated his homestead for a
period of at least one year after he shall have commenced his
improvements.
"SEc. 2306. Every person entitled, under the provisions of
section twenty-three hundred and four, to enter a homestead,
who may have heretofore entered, under the homestead laws,
a quantity of land less than one hundred and sixty acres, shall
be permitted to enter so much land as, when added to the
quantity previously entered, shall not exceed one hundred and
sixty acres."
As the lands in controversy are not contiguous to those
originally entered, there would be some ground to contend
that the entry made by Mrs. Robertson in 1887 was invalid,
but for the omission ex industria from the statute of the

WEBSTER v. LUTHER.
Opinion of the Court.

requirement, first introduced by the act of June 8, 1872, that
the additional lands entered should be contiguous to those
entered under the act of 1862, or under the first section of the
act of June 8, 1872.
If, then, Congress did not burden the right to additional
lands with the condition that they should be contiguous to
those originally entered, it would seem necessarily to follow
that the grant of additional lands was without restrictions,
and, consequently, there was no purpose to interfere with the
disposition by the homesteader of such additional lands, or
of his interest in them, in any mode he deemed proper or that
might be adopted in respect of other property owned by him.
Any other construction of section 2306 would, we apprehend,
defeaf the purpose that Congress had in view when it gave
additional lands to those who had made entries under the
homestead laws of less than one hundred and sixty acres.
We cannot see that. any sound policy could have been subserved by restricting the bounty of Congress to those who
were able to find additional lands contiguous to those previously entered by them; and we entirely concur in the views
expressed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota. Speaking by
Chief Justice Gilfillan, in the present case, it said: "There
being nothing in the terms of the section requiring the things
specified in the act of 1862, to wit, the making of proofs,
affidavits, etc., is there anything in the policy of the government in respect to the subject-matters of the various acts
referred to which raises the presumption that Congress intended any of the requirements of the act of 1862 to apply
to the ' additional right? ' or intended the feature of inalienability impressed on the homestead entered under the act of
1862, or the first section of the act of 1872, should attach to
the 'additional right?' The purpose of Congress in giving
the right to enter and acquire a homestead under the act
of 1862, and the first section of the act of 1872, was not
merely to confer a benefaction on the citizen, or discharged
soldier. or sailor. There was also the purpose to secure,
so far as possible, a bona ftde settler on the public lands,
to promote the peopling and cultivation of those lands.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

It was to prevent the evasion of this result that the person
applying to enter a homestead is required to make affidavit
that the application is made for his or her exclusive use and
benefit, for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation,
and not, either directly or indirectly, for the use or benefit
of any other person, and on applying for the patent to make
proof of residence on, and cultivation of, the land for five
years, and an affidavit that no part of the land has been
hlienated; and it is provided that the land shall not be taken
for debts, and that upon any change of residence or abandonment of the land for more than six months the land shall
revert. The end in view was the peopling of vacant public
lands with settlers owning and cultivating their own homes.
To secure settlers or require residence or cultivation was no
part of the end in view in giving the additional right under
the section as amended in 1872. No residence on or cultivation of the land as a condition of securing the additional right
was intended. It was a mere gratuity. There was no other
purpose but to give it as a sort of compensation for the person's failure to get the full quota of one hundred and sixty
acres by his first homestead entry. There is no reason to
suppose it was intended to hamper the gift with conditions
that would lessen its value, nor that it was intended to be
made in any but the most advantageous form to the donee.
After the right was conferred it was immaterial to the government whether the original donee should continue to hold
it, or should transfer it to another. Or, rather, as policy requires the peopling of the vacant public lands, and as it could
not be expected or desired that the homesteader should aban-"
don his first entry to settle upon the additional land, it would
be more for the interest of the government that he should be
able to assign his additional right, so that it might come to be
held by some one who would settle upon the lands." 50 Minnesota, 77, 83.
Subsequently, the same questions were carefully examined
in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in
Barnes v. Poirier,27 U. S. App. 500. In that case it was
held that the right given by section 2306 of the Revised

WEBSTER v. LUTHER.
Opinion of the Court.

Statutes to a soldier who had theretofore entered, under
the homestead laws, less than one hundred and sixty acres
to enter enough more to make up that quantity, was assignable before entry, there being no restriction as in the
homestead act. The judgment of the Circuit Court for the
District of Minnesota, delivered by Judge Nelson, 57 Fed.
Rep. 956, was affirmed. Judge Sanborn, speaking for the
Circuit Court of Appeals, well said: "The beneficiary was
left free to select this additional land from any portion of
the vast public domain described in the act, and free to
apply it to any beneficial use that he chose. It was an
unfettered gift in the nature of compensation for past services. It vested a property right in the donee. The presumption is that Congress intended to make this right as
valuable as possible. Its real value was measured by the
price that could be obtained by its sale. The prohibition
of its sale or disposition would have made it nearly, if not
quite, valueless to a beneficiary who had already established
his home on the public domain. Any restriction upon its
alienation must decrease its value. We are unable to find
anything in the acts of Congress or in the dictates of an
enlightened public policy that requires the imposition of any
such restraint. On the other hand, the general rule of law
which discourages all restraints upon alienation, the marked
contrast between the purpose and the provisions of the grant
of the right to the original homestead, and the purposes and
provisions of the grant of the right to the additional land,
and the history of the legislation which is codified in the
existing homestead law, leave us without doubt that the
assignment before entry of the right to this additional land
granted by section 2306 of the Revised Statutes contravenes
no public policy of the nation, violates no statute, and is valid
as against the assignor, his heirs and assigns." To the same
effect were the following cases: Zhight v. Leary, 54 Wisconsin, 459; -Mullen v. Wine, 26 Fed. Rep. 206; Rose v. Nevada
&fc. Wood & Lumber Co., 73 California, 385; Montgomery
v. Pacific Coast Land Bureau, 94 California, 284.
Much stress is placed by the plaintiff in error upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

practice of the land department during a certain period, based
upon the idea that the right of entry given by the statute of
additional lands was entirely personal, and not assignable or
transferable. We cannot give to this practice in the land
office the effect claimed for it by the plaintiff in error. The
practical construction given to an act of Congress, fairly susceptible of different constructions, by one of the Executive
Departments of the government, is always entitled to the
highest respect, and in doubtful cases should be followed by
the courts, especially when important interests have grown up
under the practice adopted. Bate 1?efrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1, 34; United States v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136,

141. But this court has often said that it will not permit the
practice of an Executive Department to defeat the obvious
purpose of a statute. In the present case it is our duty to
adjudge that the right given by the statute in question to
enter "additional" lands was assignable and transferable;
consequently the instrument of writing given by Mary J.
Robertson to Boggs was not forbidden by any act of Congress.
It.results that the judgment below must be and is
Afflgmed.

HIIBORN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 267.

Submitted May 1, 1896. -Decided

May 18,1696.

Fees allowed by the court to the district attorney for his services In defending habeas corpus cases, brought to release from the custody of masters
of vessels Chinese emigrants, whom the collector of the port had ordered
detained, should be accounted for by him in the returns made by him to
the government, of the fees and emoluments of his office.
It would require a strong case to show that services, for which the district
attorney is entitled to charge the government a fee, are not also services
for the earnings of which he should make return to the government in
his emolument account.

