BLACK v. ELKHORN 'MINING COMPANY.

45

Opinion of the Court.

BLACK v. ELKHORN MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

NINTH

CIRCUIT.

2No.220. Argued April 15, 16, 1896. -Decided

May 18, 1S96.

A locator of an unpatented mining claim under the laws of the United
States, having only the possessory rights conferred by those laws, has
not such an interest in the property as will sustain a claim for dower
therein, against the grantee of the husband.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M'. T/7omas H Carter for plaintiff in error. X. _Robert
B. Smith and Mr. .Robert L. Ford filed a brief for the same.
.Mr. W. E. Cullen for defendant in error. 21r. J.
was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE PECxHAx

. Toole

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit. The action was brought by the plaintiff
in error for the purpose of recovering dower in a mining claim
in Montana, a fractional interest in which was owned by her
husband during coverture. The question is whether a mere
locator of a mining claim in the State of Montana and under
the laws of the United States, and having only the possessory
rights conferred by those laws, has such an estate in the property as will sustain a claim for dower therein. The claim is
made by the plaintiff, as widow, under the statute of Montana
relating to dower, 1 Laws of Montana, 1876, chapter 63, which
reads as follows: "A widow shall be entitled to a third part
of all lands whereof her husband was seized of an estate of
inheritance at any time during the marriage, unless the same
shall have been relinquished in legal form. Equitable estates
shall be subject to a widow's dower, and all real estate of
every description contracted for by the husband during his

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

lifetime, the title to which may be completed after his decease."
Another statute of Montana provides that "the word 'land'
or 'lands' and the words 'real estate' shall be construed to
include lands, tenements and hereditaments, and all rights
thereto and all interests therein." Section 202, p. 248, Compiled Laws of Montana.
The case was commenced in the state court and was subsequently removed, on the petition of the defendant, to the
United States Circuit Court for the District of Montana. The
facts upon which the question arises appear in the pleadings.
and the question was raised by demurrer.
The plaintiff is the widow of one Leander W. Black, who
died intestate in July, 1881. During his lifetime, and while
the plaintiff was his wife, Black owned an undivided two fifths
of a certain mining claim situate in the then Territory of
Montana, called the A. M. Holter quartz lode. On the 7th
of March, 1879, Black sold and conveyed his interest in this
claim to one Burton, who took possession thereof, but the
plaintiff did not join in that conveyance. The interest conveyed by him to Burton subsequently passed by various mesne
conveyances to the defendant in error. On the 29th of October, 1883, an application was made to the proper United States
land office by the immediate predecessor in interest of the
defendant in error to enter the claim for patent, and such
proceedings were had in the matter of the application that on
the 19th of November, 1889, a patent therefor was issued by
the United States to the applicant, covering the whole interest
in the mining claim. No protest or adverse claim or objection of any character was made or filed by the plaintiff in error
at any stage of such proceedings in the land department.
Upon these facts the Circuit Court held: That the plaintiff
had a contingent dower interest in the mining claim, under
the Montana statute, although none in the interest the United
States retained in such mining lands prior to the locator
becoming entitled to a patent therefor; but that by the granting of a patent by the United States to the defendant's predecessor, the estate or interest in the lands called a mining claim
ceased to exist, and the title to the whole land passed to the

BLACK v. ELKHORN MINING COMPANY.

447

Opinion of the Court.

patentee; the mining claim became merged in the paramount
title and perished, and no estate was in the defendant out of
which plaintiff could ask to have dower assigned.
Upon writ of error sued out by the )alntiff to review the
judgment rendered against her by the Circuit Court, the case
was argued before the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, where the judgment was affirmed.
That court held that the locator before he made any application to purchase or paid any of the purchase money had no
such estate in the mining claim as against the government or
its grantee, as that a right of dower could be founded thereon
by virtue of any state legislation, and it therefore affirmed
the judgment of the Circuit Court. 7 U. S. App. 393. The
plaintiff brings the case here for a review of the judgment
against her in the Court of Appeals.
The two courts, while not precisely harmonious in their
views as to the principles upon which the judgment should be
rested, yet agreed in the result that the plaintiff was not
entitled to dower. It was stated on the argument here that
there is no decision of the Supreme Court of the State of
MNontana construing the state statute on the subject of dower,
so far as regards this question.
The first question that presents itself is, what is the character of the interest which a locator has in a mining claim under
the Revised Statutes of the United States, and prior to the time
that he has made any application to purchase or paid any of the
purchase money, and where no patent has been issued to him
for the land? Also, what interest does he convey by a conveyance purporting to convey it all, but in which his wife does
not join?
The Revised Statutes provide that:
"SEc. 2318. In all cases land valuable for minerals shall be reserved from sale, except as otherwise expressly directed by law.
"Sxc. 2319. All valuable mineral deposits in lands belonging to the United States, both surveyed and unsurveyed, are
hereby declared to be free and open to exploration and purchase, and the lands in which they are found to occupation
.
and purchase by citizens of the United States. ....

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 2320 states the conditions governing mining claims
already located as to length, etc., and also as to those located
after the 10th of May, 1872. But it is provided that "no
location of a mining claim shall be made until the discovery
of the vein or lode within the limits of the claim located."
Section 2322 gives to locators of all mining claims and their
heirs and assigns, as stated therein, "the exclusive right of
possession and enjoyment of all the surface included within
the lines of their locations, and of all veins, lodes and ledges
throughout their entire depth, the top or apex of which lies"
as described in said statute.
It does not by its terms grant any right to the wife of the
locator either present or contingent. Being the owner of the
lands, the government could of course impose its own terms
upon which to grant any Tight, whether of possession or of
purchase.
By section 2324 certain conditions are imposed upon
locators, upon a failure to comply with which the claim is
rendered open to a relocation the same as if never before
located. One of the conditions is the following: "On each
claim located after the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred
and seventy-two, and until a patent has been issued therefor,
not less than one hundred dollars' worth of labor shall be
performed or improvements made during each year." The
section also contains a provision that "upon the failure of
any one of several cobwners to contribute his proportion of
the expenditures required hereby, the cobwners who have
performed the labor or made the improvements may, at the
expiration of the year, give such delinquent cobwner personal
notice in writing or notice by publication in the newspaper
published nearest the claim, for at least once a week for ninety
days, and if at the expiration of ninety days after such notice
in writing or by publication such delinquent should fail or
refuse to contribute his proportion of the expenditure required
by this section, his interest in the claim shall become the
property of his cobwners who have made the required
expenditure."
A patent can be obtained under section 2325, which pro-

BLACK v. ELKHORN MINING CO.1PANY.

449

Opinion of the Court.

vides generally for the filing of an application, under oath,
for such patent with the register of the proper land office,
and also for the publication of that application, and if no
adverse claim is filed with the register within the period
stated by the statute, it is to be assumed that the applicant
is entitled to a patent upon the terms therein mentioned;
and it is then provided in the section that "thereafter no
objection from third parties to the issuance of a patent shall
be heard, except it be shown that the applicant has failed
to comply with the terms of this chapter."
Section 2326 provides for the course to be pursued in case
an adverse claim is filed, and for the issuing of a patent
after a decision by a court of competent jurisdiction of the
question as to which of the parties is entitled thereto. Perego
v. Dodge, ante, 160.
It has been held that this character of interest thus outlined is property, and it is recognized as such in those States
of the West whose inhabitants are interested in mines. These
claims are subjects of bargain and sale, and constitute, as it is
said, very largely the wealth of the Pacific Coast States, and
the right to sell, transfer, mortgage and inherit them is recognized by the courts. Forbes v. Graey, 94 U. S. 762, '766;
Belk v. .eagher, 104 U. S. 279, 283; .Manuel v. Truff, 152
U. S. 505, 510.

Mr. Justice Miller, in the course of his opinion in Forbes v.
Gracey, stated: "It is very true that Congress has, by statutes
and by tacit consent, permitted individuals and corporations
to dig out and convert to their own use the ores containing
the precious metals which are found in the lands belonging
to the Government without exacting or receiving any compensation for those ores and without requiring the miner to buy
or pay for the land. It has gone further, and recognized the
possessory rights of these miners, as asserted among themselves by the rules which have become the laws of the mining
districts as regards mining claims, . . . but in doing this
it has not parted with the title to the land except in cases where
the land has been sold in accordancewith the provisions o the
law upon that subject."
VOL. ci.xm-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The interest in a mining claim, prior to the payment of any
money for the granting of a patent for the land, is nothing
more than a right to the exclusive possession of the land based
upon conditions subsequent, a failure to fulfil which forfeits
the locator's interest in the claim. We do not think that
under the Federal statute the locator takes such an estate in
the claim that dower attaches to it.
To sum up as to the character of the right which is granted
by the United States to a locator, we find: (1) That no written instrument is necessary to create it. Locating upon the
land and continuing yearly to do the work provided for by
the statute gives to and continues in the locator the right of
possession as stated in the statute. (2) This right, conditional
in its character, may be forfeited by the failure of the locator
to do the necessary amount of work, or if, being one among
several locators, he neglects to pay his share for the work
which has been done by his codwners, his right and interest
in the claim may be forfeited to such cobwners under the
provisions of the statute. (3) His interest in the claim may
also be forfeited by his abandonment, with an intention to
renounce his right of possession. It cannot be doubted that
an actual abandonment of possession by a locator of a mining
claim, such as would work an abandonment.of any other easement, would terminate all the right of possession which the
locator then had.
An easement in real estate may be abandoned without any
writing to that effect and by any act evincing an intention to
give up and renounce the same. Snell v. Levitt, 110 N. Y.
595, and cases cited at p. 603 of opinion of Earl, J.; TVhite
v. Manhattan Railway Co., 139 N. Y. 19. If the locator
remained in possession and failed to do the work provided for
by statute his interest would terminate, and it appears to be
equally plain that if he actually abandoned the possession,
giving up all claim to it, and left the land, that all the right
provided by the statute would terminate under such circumstances. If he convey to another a right which may be thus
lost, that conveyance would seem to be equivalent to an abandonment by him of all rights under the statute. What could

BLACK v. ELKHORN MUING COM PANY.

451

Opinion of the Court.

be better evidence of an intention to abandon than an actual
conveyance of his right to another, ceasing to do any work
thereon, and the giving up of his possession in accordance with
his conveyance? The abandonment by simply leaving the
land is no more efficacious than conveying his rights and also
leaving possession without any intention of returning. His
simple abandonment would leave no right remaining in his
wife to claim dower upon his death in the interest thus abandoned. If he add a conveyance as a clearer evidence of
abandonment, her alleged right to dower is not strengthened.
By the terms of the statute there is no grant of any right
to the wife. It is granted to the locator and to his heirs and
assigns, and there is no condition that hampers the right to
conv6y by incumbering it with an inchoate right of dower.
And until he does some act towards paying the purchase
money he obtains no vested right of purchase or claim to a
patent. Benson .Mining &f Smelting Co. v. Alta .Mining c
Smelting Co., 145 U. S. 428; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330.
The last cited case arose under the statute in relation to a
settler seeking to acquire the right of pregmption in certain
lands, yet the same principle applies to a case of one who had
located land and is in possession thereof, but has paid nothing
on account of the lands and has made no effort to purchase
the same. An abandonment, therefore, by the locator surrenders merely a right to the exclusive possession, as provided
for in the statute, which exclusive possession remains during
the pleasure of the government. An abandonment of it by
leaving it, not intending to return, or a conveyance of his interest to a third party, would seem equally to terminate that
interest and effectually to bar all possible future claim, if any
ever existed, on the part of his wife to dower in such premises.
By conveying his interest as locator he not only ceases to
do any work on the claim as provided for by statute, but he
puts another in possession with all his rights to do the work
called for by it, and gives him the right to do all that he could
have done towards purchasing the land itself. When the
grantee does the work and then obtains a patent, it ought

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

not to be burdened with any right of dower in the widow of
his grantor, who had by his conveyance abandoned all his
rights and given up the possession upon which they were
based. The statute, by expressly providing that the locator
and his heirs and assigns should have the rights, clearly meant
to provide for a conveyance thereof to the grantee to the same
extent that they were possessed by the grantor.
We are of opinion, therefore, that by the conveyance of
Mrs. Black's husband to his grantee of all his interest as
locator in the mining claim in question he abandoned all his
right and interest in the claim to his grantee, and that interest
which thus passed to his grantee was not subject to any possible incumbrance of the wife by way of dower in the premises. The interest granted by the United States was of such
a nature that a conveyance of Black's right to the possession
terminated it to the same extent as if it had been forfeited by
non-performance of the conditions provided for in the statute,
and hence the wife has no claim for dower in the premises.
The judgment is
Afflrmed.

FAUST v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 63T. Submitted January 9,1896.-Decided May 25, 1896.

The defendaut's name need not be correctly spelled in an Indictment, if
substantially the same sound is preserved.
On the trial under an indictment against an assistant postmaster for embezzling money-order funds of the United States, it being proved that he
was the son and assistant of the principal postmaster, and as such had
the sole management and possession of the money-order business and
money-order funds during the entire term, a certified transcript from
the office of the Auditor of the Treasury at Washington, showing the
account of the postmaster, is admissible in evidence.
It was no error on such trial to refuse to admit evidence tending to show
that another person than the defendant, at a time anterior to the time
of the commission of the offence charged, had committed another and

