UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NWTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 87. Submitted May 8, 1896.-

Decided May 25,1896.

The right to a drawback on bituminous coal, imported into the United
States and consumed as fuel on a steam vessel engaged in the coasting
trade of the United States, which existed before the passage of the
tariff act of October, 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567, was taken away by the
passage of that bill.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A8itant Attorney General A7itney for plaintiffs in
error.
21r. Z. E. Pay8on and _3fr. J. F. Evam for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error brought his action against the United
States in the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of California to recover the amounts of certain
alleged drawbacks of duty on importations of bituminous coal,
which, in February, 1891, were supplied as fuel to the steamer
Humboldt, a vessel-of the United States regularly engaged in
the coasting trade between sundry ports in northern California. Tender of compliance with the regulations promulgated
by the Secretary of the Treasury, under the authority of the
tariff act of March 3, 1883, to obtain the allowance and payment of such drawbacks was averred, and it was alleged that
the surveyor of the port and other government officials declined to recognize the existence of a right thereto. A demurrer to the complaint was overruled, 52 Fed. Rep. 575, and,
subsequently, an answer was filed taking issue thereon. Upon
hearing on the merits a judgment was rendered in favor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff, which judgment was subsequently affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 15 U. S. App.
252. Thereupon a writ of certiorari was allowed and the
cause was brought here for review.
The right to the alleged drawbacks is grounded upon the
second proviso of section 25 of the tariff act of 1890, which it
was alleged continued in force the following provision of the
tariff act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 511:
"Coal, bituminous and shale, seventy-five cents per ton of
twenty-eight bushels, eighty pounds to the bushel. A drawback of seventy-five cents per ton shall be allowed on all bituminous coal imported into the United States which is afterwards used for fuel on board vessels propelled by steam which
are engaged in the coasting trade of the United States, or in
the trade with foreign countries, to be allowed and paid under
such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe."
By section 10 of the shipping act of June 19, 1886, c. 421,
24 Stat. 81, the benefits of this provision were limited to vessels of the United States.
Section 25 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26
Stat. 617, above referred to, reads as follows:
"25. That where imported materials on which duties have
been paid, are used in the manufacture of articles manufactured or produced in the United States, there shall be allowed
on the exportation of such articles a drawback equal in
amount to the duties paid on the materials used, less one per
centum of such duties: Provided, That when the articles exported are made in part from domestic materials the imported
materials, or the parts of the articles made from such materials, shall so appear in the completed articles that the quantity
or measure thereof may be ascertained: And ovi df rther,
That the drawback on any article allowed under existing law
shall be continued at the rate herein provided. That the imported materials used in the manufacture or production of
articles entitled to drawback of customs duties when exported
shall in all cases where drawback of duties paid on such materials is claimed, be identified, the quantity of such mate-

UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

rials used and the amount of duties paid thereon shall be ascertained, the fact of the manufacture or production of such
articles in the United States and their exportation therefrom
shall be determined, and the drawback due thereon shall be
paid to the manufacturer, producer or exporter, to the agent
of either or to the person to whom such manufacturer, producer, exporter or agent shall in writing order such drawback
paid under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury
shall prescribe."
The tariff act of 1890 combined two paragraphs of the
act of 1883 relating to coal, into one, (No. 432,) and omitted
the drawback provision above referred to. Said paragraph
432 reads as follows (26 Stat. 600):
"432. Coal, bituminous and shale, seventy-five cents per
ton of twenty-eight bushels, eighty pounds to the bushel;
coal slack or culm, such as will pass through a half inch
screen, thirty cents per ton of twenty-eight bushels, eighty
pounds to the bushel."
It is necessarily conceded that the omission of the drawback provision of the act of 1883 from this special paragraph
obviously meant either that the drawback allowance was
intended to be taken away, or that the intent was to provide
for it elsewhere. If such provision is not found elsewhere in
the act of 1890 it is clear, from the character of that act, that
there was a repeal by implication of the drawback allowed
by the earlier act, for, as was said by this court, speaking
through Mr. Justice Harlan, in Tacy v. Tuffy, 134 U. S.206,
223: "While it is true that repeals by implication are not
favored by the courts, it is settled that, without express
words of repeal, a previous statute will be held to be modified by a subsequent one, if the latter was plainly intended to
cover the whole subject embraced by both, and to prescribe
the only rules in respect to that subject that are to govern."
Is the contention of the defendant in error well founded
that the drawback provision actually omitted in the act of 1890
was yet saved by the second proviso to section 25 of that act?
The trial court and the Circuit Court of Appeals held that
this section provided in distinct terms for a drawback, first.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

on all articles wholly manufactured from imported materials
and thereafter exported; and, second, for a drawback on all
articles made partly from imported materials and thereafter
exported, thus covering every possible manufacture made in
this country of foreign materials and subsequently exported,
and that the proviso following, to wit: "That the drawback
on any article allowed under existing law shall be continued
at the rate herein provided," recognized the continued right
to the drawback here claimed, as it was then allowed by an
existing law.
But this construction is faulty. It necessarily has, as its
basis, the assumption that the act of 1883 was considered by
Congress in passing the act of 1890, as an "existing law"
within the purview of these words as used in the act of 1890.
But the act of 1883 was clearly superseded in all its parts,
and intended so to be, by the latter act. A comparison of
the two acts will make manifest the fact that Congress sought
and designed to embody in the act of 1890 all the provisions
of the act of 1883 which it was not intended should be eliminated and repealed.

Thus, sections 2503 et seq. of the act

of 1883, 22 Stat. 522, embody lengthy provisions regarding
special exemptions of merchandise, works of art, imported
materials intended for particular purposes, etc. All such provisions will be found refnacted in the act of 1890. 26 Stat.
pp. 609, 611, 613 to 616, 648, etc.
The act of 1883, in so far as it related to duties on imports,
contained only two provisions for drawback, one on salt, the
other on bituminous coal. The drawback on salt was reenacted in the act of 1890 in the same situation as found
in the act of 1883, but the provision as to bituminous coal,
as already stated, was omitted and no substitute appears.
Under the circumstances, the act of 1883 cannot be regarded
as "existing law," as that expression is employed in the proviso in question. Congress having altered the form of the
paragraph of the act of 1883 relating to bituminous coal, not
only by omitting the provision as to drawback, but by combining two paragraphs of the act of 1883 into one in the act
of 1890, its attention was necessarily directed to the necessity

UNITED STATES v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

of providing elsewhere for the drawback if it was designed
to retain it. It made special provision (par. 328) for a 99 per
cent drawback on imported tin plate used in the manufacture
of cans, etc., for export, and certainly the necessity for an
equally unambiguous provision with reference to bitu*minous
coal would have suggested itself if it was contemplated that
such drawback should continue. It is altogether improbable
that Congress couched an intention to continue a drawback
on coal in the ambiguous language employed in the proviso
which is relied on.
An added circumstance weighing against the construction
that the proviso was intended to continue the drawback in
question is the fact that the rule laid down in the proviso for
determining the amount of drawback evidently had relation
to articles manufactured from "materials," and not to a raw
material like coal, in the production of which no materials are
used which enter into and form a part of the product. The
proviso requires that the drawback shall be continued "at
the rate herein provided," and that rate is a sum "equal in
amount to the duties paid on the ' material used,' less one per
centum of such duties."
We are not called on now to determine whether the proviso
in question should be limited solely to exported articles of
domestic manufacture composed in whole or in part of foreign
materials, or whether the provision has reference to the general and specific sections authorizing drawbacks contained in
Chapter 9, Title XXXIV, of the Revised Statutes, or to
special acts authorizing drawbacks, if any such there be.
The argument that the language of the proviso which is
here relied on must be held to mean nothing unless it be considered as continuing the drawback on coal, is without merit,
for non condat that the language was employed, from abundance of precaution, to deny, in advance, the theory that the
proviso repealed every drawback arising from general legislation outside of the act of 1883. It is, moreover, apparent,
taking the most favorable view of the claim asserted, that it
is extremely doubtful whether the construction of this second
proviso of the tariff act of 1890, upon which the finding in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

favor of the defendant in error was predicated, was justified.
Such being the case, it results that the doubt engendered
must be resolved against him. The claim advanced is that an
exceptional privilege or exemption from the general operation
of a law exists in favor of the defendant in error. Such a
claim is within the general principle that exemptions must be
strictly construed, and that doubt must be resolved against
the one asserting the exemption. Schurtz v. Cook, 148 U. S.
397; KEeokuk & estrn Railroadv. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301,
306.
It results from these considerations that the judgments of
both the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California and the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Nbinth Circuit were erroneous. Both the judgments must,
therefore, be
Reversed, and the cause be remanded to the .District Court
of t7e United Btate for the .Yorthern Distri t of California,with directions to enter judgment in favor of the
United States, with costs.

31R. JusnoT

Pxtam

dissents.

WARD v. RACE HORSE.
APPEAL FROM TH

CIRUT COURT OF TEM LIMM STATES POR
THE DISTRICT OF WYOMING.

No.841. Argued March 11, 12,1896. -D.ided May 25,1896.
The provision in the treaty of February 24, 1869, with the Bannock Indians,
whose reservation was within the limits of what is now the State of
Wyoming, that "they shall have the right to hunt upon the unoccupied
lands of the United States sb long as game may be found thereon," etc.,
does not give them the right to exercise this privilege within the limits
of that State In violation of Its laws.

TmIs appeal was taken from an order of the court below,
rendered in a habea corpus proceeding, discharging the ap-

