HANFORD v. DAVIES.
Syllabus.

distinguish between a principal and accessory demand. The
claim made by the plaintiff on the coupons was in no just
sense accessory to any other demand, but was in itself principal and primary. In ascertaining, therefore, the jurisdictional
sum in dispute, the sum of the coupons should have been
treated as an independent, principal demand and not as interest; and in holding otherwise the lower court erred to the
prejudice of the plaintiff in error.
As the face of the bonds amounted- to the sum of two
thousand dollars, the addition of the demand based upon the
coupons brought the sum in dispute within the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court. It is, therefore, unnecessary to consider
whether the controversy as to the funding bonds did not involve a real matter "in dispute" between the parties.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded with
directions to set aside the order dismissing the actionfor
want of jurisdiction, andfor furtherproceedings inconformity to law.

HANFORD v. DAVIES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No.260. Argued and submitted April 29, 80,1896. -Decided May 18,1896.
The constitutional prohibition upon the passage of state laws impairing the
obligation of contracts has reference only to the laws, that Is, to the
constitutional provisions or to the legislative enactments, of a State, and
not to judicial decisions or the acts of state tribunals or officers under
statutes in force at the time of the making of the contract, the obligation of which is alleged to have been Impaired.
When it is the purpose to present a case under the clause of the Constitution relating to due process of law, and both parties are citizens of the
same State, the grounds upon which a Federal court can take cognizance
of a suit of that character and between such parties must be clearly and
distinctly stated In the bill.
Jurisdiction In such case cannot be Inferred argumentatively from averments in the pleadings, but the averments must be positive.
vo.. CLxm-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Tnis cause was determined in the court below upon a demurrer to the bill. The grounds of demurrer were: 1. That
the bill did not set forth any case entitling the plaintiff to
relief. 2. That the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction.
It was adjudged that the bill did not state a case within the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and the question of jurisdiction alone has been certified. 51 Fed. Rep. 258.
Taking the case to be as made by the bill, it is substantially
as follows:
On October 14, 1878, the Territory of Washington, for a
valuable consideration, executed to Thaddeus Hanford a deed
conveying to him, his heirs and assigns, certain lands in what
is now King County, State of Washington. The deed was
duly recorded on November 25, 1878. It was executed by
the Territory in pursuance of a sale made by it of those
lands as the property of one Lumley Franklin, for the nonpayment of taxes due from him. The deed contained what
the bill describes as "the following contract and agreement"
between the parties, namely: " N ow therefore the said party
of the first part by virtue of the statute in such case made and
provided, for the consideration of the sum of money above
mentioned paid to the county treasurer of said county, has
granted, bargained, sold and conveyed, and by these presents
does grant, bargain, sell, convey and confirm unto the said
Thaddeus Hanford, his heirs and assigns, the said described
real estate, together with all and singular the tenements and
appurtenances thereto belonging or in anywise appertaining,
and the rents, issues and profits thereof, as well in law as in
equity, and the right, title and interest of the said Lumley
Franklin and all owners known or unknown, of, in or to the
above described premises."
Thaddeus Hanford immediately entered into possession of
the premises, paid the taxes thereon and improved the same,
remaining in possession until the 17th day of September, 18S5.
The statutes of Washington Territory in force at the date
of the above tax sale, as well as at the date of the execution
of the above deed, prohibited the bringing of any suit or proceeding for the recovery of laud sold for taxes after the

HANFORD v. DAVIES.
Statement of the Case.

expiration of three years from the recording of the tax deed
of sale, except in cases where the tax had been paid or the
land redeemed, or where such suit was brought by the purchaser at the tax sale. The statute also provided that the tax
deed should be presumptive evidence of the regularity of all
former proceedings.
On September 17, 1885, Thaddeus Hanford being in possession executed to Frank Hanford a deed of the premises,
conveying a title in fee. That deed was duly recorded on the
13th day of March, 1886.
Frank Hanford purchased the premises in good faith for
a valuable consideration and without notice of a claim by any
other person than his grantor. In making his purchase he
relied, the bill alleges, upon the "express contract entered
into between the Territory of Washington and the said Thaddeus Hanford, above set forth, by virtue of which said land
was conveyed to said Thaddeus Hanford and title thereto
confirmed in him by said Territory and the laws thereof then
existing."
Immediately after his purchase the plaintiff entered into
possession of and improved the premises, paying taxes, and
also erecting a dwelling-house in which the property of his
agent and employ6 were kept.
The bill then alleges: "That on the 26th day of July, 1887,
the said Territory of Washington, by W. Finley Hall, its
agent, presented the petition of the said W. Finley Hall to
the probate court of King County, alleging the death of
said Lumley Franklin above named; that he left no property in Washington Territory except real estate; that there
were no general creditors; that said Franklin was a resident
of Victoria, British Columbia, and that he died without the
Territory of Washington, and prayed that letters of administration be granted to said W. Finley Hall upon the estate
of said Lumley Franklin, but said W. Finley Hall was not
of kin to said Lumley Franklin, neither was he a creditor of
said Franklin, nor did he act in presenting said petition at
the request of any one of kin to said Lumley Franklin or at
the request of any of the creditors of said Lumley Franklin.

OCTOBER TERK, 1895:
Statement of the Case.

That on the 8th day of August said probate court assumed to
appoint said W. Finley Hall administrator of said estate,
and on the 26th day of said month he filed his inventory
showing there were no debts against said estate, no personal
assets, and that the said land constituted the sole assets of
said estate. That thereafter, to wit, on the 26th day of
March, 1888, the said Territory of Washington, by its agent
and organ, the probate court of King County, in violation of
the contract above mentioned, entered into between said Territory and Thaddeus Hanford, the grantor of your orator,
ordered said land above described to be sold as the property
of Lumley Franklin to pay a tax claimed by said Territory
from said Lumley Franklin, and thereafter, in pursuance of
said order, made a pretended sale of said land and caused to
be executed a deed purporting to convey the same to the defendant Griffith Davies, in violation of the contract above set
forth between the said Territory of Washington and the said
Thaddeus Hanford and the obligation thereof, and in violation of article I, section 10, of the Constitution of the United
States and of sections 1851 and 1891 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States. That in all of his actions the said W.
Finley Hall acted as the agent and instrument of said Territory of Washington, and in all of its proceedings the said
probate court acted as the agent and organ of said Territory for the purpose of collecting said tax claimed by
said Territory from said Lumley Franklin; that in all of its
said proceedings the said probate court acted entirely without jurisdiction and without color of authority save as the
agent and organ of said Territory, and said probate court and
said W. Finley Hall as the agents and organs of said Territory were at the time of their said proceedings fully aware
that said land had in good faith and for valuable consideration been sold by said Territory to said Thaddeus Hanford
as the property of said Lumley Franklin for the non-payment
of taxes thereon by said Lumley Franklin, and that upon the
faith of said sale and the deed executed in pursuance thereof
your orator had purchased said land in good faith for valuable
consideration and without notice of any claim on the part

HLANFORD v. DAVIES.
Statement of the Case.

of said Territory or any person whomsoever from the said
Thaddeus Hanford."
The sections of the Revised Statutes above referred to are
as follows: "ยง 1851. The legislative power of every Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not
inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United
States.

.

.

."

"ยง 1891.

The Constitution and all laws

of the United States which are not locally inapplicable shall
have the same force and effect within all the organized Territories, and in every Territory hereafter organized as elsewhere within the United States."
The deed executed in pursuance of the sale ordered by the
probate court was taken in the name of the defendant Griffith
Davies, but it was in fact for the benefit of himself and his
co-defendants.
The defendants purchased at the sale ordered by the probate court and received the deed made to Griffith Davies with
actual and constructive notice of the plaintiff's title, and of
all the facts and circumstances connected therewith. Nevertheless, it is alleged, with the intent to create a cloud upon
the plaintiff's title and to force him to buy off their adverse
claim, they conspired together to make their said purchase,
and in pursuance of that conspiracy bought in the land and
procured a deed for it. Subsequently, February 25, 1881,
they forcibly entered upon and maintained forcible possession of the land until the first day of April, 1891, at which
time the premises were vacated and are not now in the actual
possession of any one, except so far as the abandonment of
possession by the defendants restores the prior possession of
the plaintiff.
The bill alleges that the pretended deed of the defendants
is of no validity in law or equity and is a cloud upon the title
of the plaintiff, and that the defendants have no estate, right,
title or interest in the lands or the possession thereof.
The relief asked is a decree that the defendants have no
title, interest or -estate in or about the land or any part thereof,
and that the title of the plaintiff is good and valid; that the
defendants and each of them be forever enjoined from assert-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ing any title or claim adverse to the plaintiff; that said administrator's deed may be declared invalid and the record
thereof of no effect; and that the plaintiff have such other
and further relief as the equity of the case may require.
.Mr. James B. Howe, (with whom was Mfr. GeorgeDonworth
on the brief,) for appellant.
.Mr. James Hamilton Lewis, .Mr. L. A. Stratton and Mr.
L. C. Gilman for appellees submitted on their brief.
MR. JusTi- HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As it appears from the bill that the plaintiffs and the defendants are all citizens of the State of Washington, the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction unless the suit was one
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
The bill proceeds upon the ground that the orders of the
probate court, resulting in the sale of the lands in controversy
as the property of Lumley Franklin, and in the conveyance of
1888 to the defendant Davies, impaired the obligation of the
alleged contract with the Territory as evidenced by the deed
of 1878 to Thaddeus Hanford. But it was not alleged in the
bill that the proceedings in the probate court were had under
any statute that was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, or which was enacted after the sale and conveyance of these lands by the Territory to Thaddeus Hanford.
The prohibition upon the passage of state laws
impairing the obligation of contracts has reference only to
the laws, that is, to the constitutional provisions or to the legislative enactments, of a State, and not to judicial decisions or
the acts of state tribunals or officers under statutes in force
at the time of the making of the contract the obligation of
which is alleged to have been impaired. Railroad Co. v. Rock,
4 Wall. 177; Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388;
Wood v. Brady, 150 U. S. 18; Central Land Co. v. Laidley,
159 U. S. 103. Therefore, even if it be assumed that the
plaintiff had a contract with the Territory, and even if it were

HANFORD v. DAVIES.
Opinion of the Court.

further assumed that the constitutional provision in question
applied to the legislative enactments of a Territory, the court
below was without jurisdiction, so far as it depended upon
the application of the clause of the Constitution protecting
the obligation of contracts against impairment by state
laws.
But it is contended that the proceedings in the probate
court did not constitute due process of law, and for that
reason this suit is one arising under the Constitution of the
United States. No such thought was intended to be expressed in the bill, and it is apparent that no such proposition was presented to the Circuit Court when it determined
the question of jurisdiction. The suggestion of the want of
due process of law in the proceedings in the probate court,
first distinctly appears in the assignment of errors filed in the
court below long after the final decree was entered.
It is true the bill alleges that the probate court in all of its
proceedings acted "entirely without jurisdiction and without
color of authority save as the agent and organ of said Territory."
But this allegation of want of jurisdiction in the
probate court is too general and indefinite to show that its
proceedings were wanting in due process of law. If the purpose was to present a case under the clause of the Constitution relating to due process of law, the grounds upon which
the Federal court could take cognizance of a suit of that
character between citizens of the same State should have
been clearly and distinctly stated in the bill. It is well
settled that, as the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the
United States is limited in the sense that it has no other
jurisdiction than that conferred by the Constitution and laws
of the United States, the presumption is that a cause is without its jurisdiction unless the contrary affirmatively appears;
and that it is not sufficient that jurisdiction may be inferred argumentatively from averments in the pleadings, but the averments should be positive. Brown v. Eeene, 8 Pet. 112; Grae v.
American Central Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 278, 283, and authorities
cited. These principles have been applied in cases where the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked upon the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

of diverse citizenship.

But they are equally applicable where

its original jurisdiction of a suit between citizens of the same
State is invoked upon the ground that the suit is one arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States. We are
not required to say that it is essential to the maintenance of
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of such a suit that the
pleadings should refer, in words, to the particular clause of
the Constitution relied on to sustain the claim of immunity
in question, but only that the essential facts averred must
show, not by inference or argumentatively, but clearly and
distinctly, that the suit is one of which the Circuit Court is
entitled to take cognizance. Ansbro v. United States, 159
U. S. 695.
Without expressing any opinion as to the effect of the
proceedings in the probate court and the sale by the administrator Hall upon the rights acquired by the plaintiff under
the tax sale at which Thaddeus Hanford purchased, we
adjudge that the court below properly sustained the demurrer for want of jurisdiction, and, therefore, did not err in
dismissing the bill.
Judgment aajirnmd.

RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
LEAK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 2 5. Argued and submitted May 4, 1896. -Decided May 18, 1896.
It is no error to refuse to give an instruction when all its propositions are
embraced in the charge to the jury.
It is no error In an action like this to refuse an instruction which singles
out particular circumstances, and omits all reference to others of importance.
This case was fairly submitted to the jury with no error of law to the prejudice of the defendant.

Tmis writ of error brought up for review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, affirming a judg-

