PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Syllabus.

boundary line as described in said report and as delineated
on said map, and now marked by cedar posts, be permanently
marked as recommended in said report, with all convenient
speed, and that said commission be continued for that purpose,
and make report thereon to this court, and that this cause
be retained until such report is made.

It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the compensation and expenses of the commissioners and the expenses
attendant on the discharge of their duties, up to this time,
be, and they are hereby, allowed at the sum of two thousand
two hundred and thirty-six dollars and sixty cents in accordance with their report, and that said charges and expenses
and the costs of this suit to be taxed be equally divided between the parties hereto.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that this
decree is without prejudice to further proceedings as either of
the parties may be advised for the determination of such part
of the boundary line between said States as may not have
been settled by this decree under the pleadings in this case.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the
clerk of this court do forthwith transmit to the chief magistrates of the States of Kentucky and Indiana copies of this
decree duly authenticated under the seal of this court.
per Mr. CHIEF JusnC FULLER.
May 18, 1896.

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 210. Argued April 18, 1896. -Decided

May18, 1896.

The statute of Louisiana, acts of 1890, No. 111, requiring railway companies carrying passengers In their coaches ip that State, to provide equal,
but separate, accommodations for the white and colored races, by providing two or more passenger coaches for each passenger train, or by
dividing the passenger coaches by a partition so as to secure separate
accommodations; and providing that no person shall be permitted to
occupy seats in coaches other than the ones assigned to them, on account

OCTOBER TERI, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
of the race they belong to; and requiring the officers of the passenger
trains to assign each passenger to the coach or compartment assigned
for the race to which be or she belongs; and imposing fines or imprisonment upon passengers insisting on going into a coach or compartment
other than the one set aside for the race to which he or she belongs;
and conferring upon officers of the trains power to refuse to carry on the
train passengers refusing to occupy the coach or compartment assigned
to them, and exempting the railway company from liability for such
refusal, are not in conflict with the provisions either of the Thirteenth
Amendment or of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.

THIS was a petition for writs of prohibition and certiorari,
originally filed in the Supreme Court of the State by Plessy,
the plaintiff in error, against the Hon. John H. Ferguson,
judge of the criminal District Court for the parish of Orleans,
and setting forth in substance the following facts:
That petitioner was a citizen of the" United States and a
resident of the State of Louisiana, of mixed descent, in the
proportion of seven eighths Caucasian and one eighth African
blood; that the mixture of colored blood was not discernible
in him, and that he was entitled to every recognition, right,
privilege and immunity secured to the citizens of the United
States of the white race by its Constitution and laws; that on
June 7,1892, he engaged and paid for a first class passage on
the East Louisiana Railway from New Orleans to Covington,
in the same State, and thereupon entered a passenger train,
and took possession of a vacant seat in a coach where passengers of the white race were accommodated; that such railroad
company was incorporated by the laws of Louisiana as a
common carrier, and was not authorized to distinguish between citizens according to their race. But, notwithstanding
this, petitioner was required by the conductor, under penalty
of ejection from said train and imprisonment, to vacate said
coach and occupy another seat in a coach assigned by said
company for persons not'of the white race, and for no other
reason than that petitioner was of the colored race; that
upon petitioner's refusal to comply with such order, he was,
with the aid of a police officer, forcibly ejected from said
coach and hiurried off to and imprisoned in the parish jail of

PLESSY v. FERGUSOIN.
Statement of the Case.

:New Orleans, and there held to answer a charge made by
such officer to the effect that he was guilty of having criminally violated an act of the General Assembly of the State,
approved July 10, 1890, in such case made and provided.
That petitioner was subsequently brought before the recorder of the city for preliminary examination and committed
for trial to the criminal District Court for the parish of
Orleans, where an information was filed against him in the
matter above set forth, for a violation of the above act, which
act the petitioner affirmed to be null and void, because in
conflict with the Constitution of the United States; that
petitioner interposed a plea to such information, based upon
the unconstitutionality of the act of the General Assembly, to
which the district attorney, on behalf of the State, filed a
demurrer; that, upon issue being joined upon such demurrer
and plea, the court sustained the demurrer, overruled the plea,
and ordered petitioner to plead over to the facts set forth in
the information, and that, unless the judge of the said court
be enjoined by a writ of prohibition from further proceeding
in such case, the court will proceed to fine and sentence
petitioner to imprisonment, and thus deprive him of his constitutional rights set forth in his said plea, notwithstanding
the unconstitutionality of the act under which he was being
prosecuted; that no appeal lay from such sentence, and petitioner was without relief or remedy except by writs of prohibition and certiorari. Copies of the information and other
proceedings in the criminal District Court were annexed to
the petition as an exhibit.
Upon the filing of this petition, an order was issued upon
the respondent to show cause why a writ of prohibition should
not issue and be made perpetual, and a further order that the
record of the proceedings had in the criminal cause be certified
and transmitted to the Supreme Court.
To this order the respondent made answer, transmitting a
certified copy of the proceedings, asserting the constitutionality
of the law, and averring that, instead of pleading or admitting that he belonged to the colored race, the said Plessy
declined and refused, either by pleading or otherwise, to ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

mit that he was in any sense or in any proportion a colored
man.
The case coming on for a hearing before the Supreme Court,
that court was of opinion that the law under which the prosecution was had was constitutional, and denied the relief
prayed for by the petitioner. LTvparte Plessy, 45 La. Ann.
80. Whereupon petitioner prayed for a writ of error from this
court which was allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana.
Mr. A. i. Tourgee and Mr. S. F. Phillipsfor plaintiff in
error. .Mr. F. D. McEenney was on -Mr.Phillips's brief.
Mr. .TamevC. Walker filed a brief for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Alexander PorterMorse for defendant in error. .Mr.
H. I.Cunningham, Attorney General of the State of Louisiana, and Mr. Lional Adams were on his brief.
YR.

JusTIoE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the constitutionality of an act of the
General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, passed in 1890.
providing for separate railway carriages for the white and
colored races. Acts 1890, No. 111, p. 152.
The first section of the statute enacts "that all railway companies carrying passengers in their coaches in this State, shall
provide equal but separate accommodations for the white, and
colored races, by providing two or more passenger coaches for
each passenger train, or by dividing the passenger coaches by
a partition so as to secure separate accommodations: Provided,
That this section shall not be construed to apply to street railroads. No person or persons, shall be admitted to occupy
seats in coaches, other than, the ones, assigned, to them on
account of the race they belong to."
By the second section it was enacted "that the officers of
such passenger trains shall have power and are hereby required

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

to assign each passenger to the coach or compartment used
for the race to which such passenger belongs; any passenger
insisting on going into a coach or compartment to which by
race he does not belong, shall be liable to a fine of twenty-five

dollars, or in lieu thereof to imprisonment for a period of not
more than twenty days in the parish prison, and any officer
of any railroad insisting on assigning a passenger to a coach or
compartment other than the one set aside for the race to which
said passenger belongs, shall be liable to a fine of twenty-five
dollars, or in lieu thereof to imprisonment for a period of not
more than twenty days in the parish prison; and should any
passenger refuse to occupy the coach or compartment to which
lie or she is assigned by the officer of such railway, said officer
shall have power to refuse to carry such passenger on his
train, and for such refusal neither he nor the railway company
which he represents shall be liabl6 for damages in any of the
courts of this State."
The third section provides penalties for the refusal or neglect of the officers, directors, conductors and employvs of railway companies to comply with the act, with a proviso that
"nothing in this act shall be construed as applying to nurses
attending children of the other race." The fourth section is
immaterial.
The information filed in the criminal District Court charged
in substance that Plessy, being a passenger between two
stations within the State of Louisiana, was assigned by officers
of the company to the coach used for the race to which he belonged, but he insisted upon going into a coach used by the
race to which he did not belong,. Neither in the information
nor plea was his particular race or color averred.
The petition for the writ of prohibition averred that petitioner was seven eighths Caucasian and one eighth African"
blood; that the mixture of colored blood was not discernible
in him, and that he was entitled to every right, privilege and
immunity secured to citizens of the United States of the white
race; and that, upon such theory, he took possession of a vacant seat in a coach where passengers of the white race were
accommodated, and was ordered by the conductor to vacate

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

said coach and take a seat in another assigned to persons of
the colored race, and having refused to comply with such
demand he was forcibly ejected with the aid of a police
officer, and imprisoned in the parish jail to answer a charge
of having violated the above act.
The constitutionality of this act is attacked upon the ground
that it conflicts both with the Thirteenth Amendment of the
Constitution, abolishing slavery, and the Fourteenth Amendment, which prohibits certain restrictive legislation on the
part of the States.
1. That it does not conflict with the Thirteenth Amendment, which abolished slavery and involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime, is too clear for argument.
Slavery implies involuntary servitude- a state of bondage;
the ownership of mankind as a chattel, or at least the control
of the labor and services of one man for the benefit of another,
and the absence of a legal right to the disposal of his own
person, property and services. This amendment was said in
the Slaughter-house cases, 16 Wall. 36, to have been intended
primarily to abolish slavery, as it had been previously known
in this country, and that it equally forbade Mexican peonage
or the Chinese coolie trade, when they amounted to slavery
or involuntary servitude, and that the use of the word "servitude" was intended to prohibit the use of all forms of involuntary slavery, of whatever class or name. It was intimated,
however, in that case that this amendment was regarded by
the statesmen of that day as insufficient to protect the colored
race from certain laws which had been enacted in the Southern
States, imposing upon the colored race onerous disabilities and
burdens, and curtailing their rights in the pursuit of life,
liberty and property to such an extent that their freedom
was of little value; and that the Fourteenth Amendment was
devised to meet this exigency.
So, too, in the Civil Rights cases, 109 U. S. 3, 24, it was
said that the act of a mere individual, the owner of an inn, a
public conveyance or place of amusement, refusing accommodations to colored people, cannot be justly regarded as imposing any badge of slavery or servitude upon the applicant, but

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

only as involving an ordinary civil injury, properly cognizable
by the laws of the State, and presumably subject to redress
by those laws until the contrary appears. "It would be running the slavery argument into the ground," said Mr. Justice
Bradley, "to make it apply to every act of discrimination
which a person may see, fit to make as to the guests he will
entertain, or as to the people he will take into his coach or cab
or car, or admit to his concert or theatre, or deal with in other
matters of intercourse or business."
A statute which implies merely a legal distinction between
the white and colored races- a distinction which is founded
in the color of the two races, and which must always exist so
long as white men are distinguished from the other race by
color- has no tendency to destroy the legal equality of the
two races, or re~stablish a state of involuntary servitude. Indeed, we do not understand that the Thirteenth Amendment
is strenuously relied upon by the plaintiff in error in this connection.
2. By the Fourteenth Amendment, all persons born or
naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are made citizens of the United States and of the
State wherein they reside; and the States are forbidden from
making or.enforcing any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, or shall
deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law, or deny to any person within their jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws.
The proper construction of this amendment was first called
to the attention of this court in the laughter-house Cases, 16
Wall. 36, which involved, however, not a question of race, but
one of exclusive privileges. The case did not call for any expression of opinion as to the exact rights it was intended to
secure to the colored race, but it was said generally that its
main purpose was to establish the citizenship of the negTo; to
give definitions of citizenship of the United States and of the
States, and to protect from the hostile legislation of the States
the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States,
as distinguished from those of citizens of the States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The object of the amendment was undoubtedly to enforce
the absolute equality of the two races before the law, but in
the nature of things it could not have been intended to abolish distinctions based upon color, or to enforce social, as distinguished from political equality, or a commingling of the
two races upon terms unsatisfactory to either. Laws permitting, and even requiring, their separation in places where they
are liable to be brought into contact do not necessarily imply
the inferiority of either race to the other, and have been generally, if not universally, recognized as within the competency
of the state legislatures in the exercise of their police power.
The most common instance of this is connected with the establishment of separate schools for white and colored children,
which has been held to be a valid exercise of the legislative
power even by courts of States where the political rights of
the colored race have been longest and most earnestly enforced.
One of the earliest of these cases is that of .Robert&v. City
o.f Boston, 5 Cush. 198, in which the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts held that the general school committee of
Boston had power to make provision for the instruction of
colored children in separate schools established exclusively for
them, and to prohibit their attendance upon the other schools.
"The great principle," said Chief Justice Shaw, p. 206, "advanced by the learned and eloquent advocate for the plaintiff," (Mr. Charles Sumner,) "is, that by the constitution and
laws of Massachusetts, all persons without distinction of age
or sex, birth or color, origin or condition, are equal before the
law. . . . But, when this great principle comes to be applied to the actual and various conditions of persons in society,
it will not warrant the assertion, that men and women are
legally clothed with the same civil and political powers, and
that children and adults are legally to have the same functions and be subject to the same treatment; but only that the
rights of all, as they are settled and regulated by law, are
equally entitled to the paternal consideration and protection
of the law for their maintenance and security." It was held
that the powers of the committee extended to the establish-

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of separate schools for children of different ages, sexes
and colors, and that they might also establish special schools
for poor and neglected children, who have become too old to
attend the primary school, and yet have not acquired the rudiments of learning, to enable them to enter the ordinary
schools. Similar laws have been enacted by Congress under
its general power of legislation over the District of Columbia,
Rev. Stat. D. C. % 281, 282, 283, 310, 319, as well as by the
legislatures of many of the States, and have been generally,
if not uniformly, sustained by the courts. State v. .Mc Cann,
21 Ohio St. 198; Lekew v. Brummell, 1 S. W. Rep. 765;
Ward v. Flood, 48 California, 36; Bertonneau v. SchooZ Directors, 3 Woods, 177; People v. Gallagher, 93 N. Y. 438;
Cary v. Carter,48 Indiana, 327; Daw8on v. Lee, 83 Kentucky,
49.
Laws forbidding the intermarriage of the two races may be
said in a technical sense to interfere with the freedom of contract, and yet have been universally recognized as within the
police power of the State. State v. Gibson, 36 Indiana, 389.
The distinction between laws interfering with the political
equality of the negro and those requiring the separation of the
two races in schools, theatres and railway carriages has been
frequently drawn by this court. Thus in Strauder v. lVe8t Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, it was held that a law of West Virginia
limiting to white male persons, 21 years of age and citizens of
the State, the right to sit upon juries, was a discrimination
which implied a legal inferiority in civil society, which lessened the security of the right of the colored race, and was a
step toward reducing them to a condition of servility. Indeed,
the right of a colored man that, in the selection of jurors to
pass upon his life, liberty and property, there shall be no exclusion of his race, and no discrimination against them because
of color, has been asserted in a number of cases. Virginia v.
1?ves, 100 U. S. 313; iAeal v. -Delaware, 103 U. S. 370;
Bu8A v. .entuXky, 107 U. S. 110; Gibso-n v. .Miseiessppi,
162 U. S. 565. So, where the laws of a particular locality or
the charter of a particular railway corporation has provided
that no person shall be excluded from the cars on account of
voL- cLxnz-35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

color, we have held that this meant that persons of color
should travel in the same car as white ones, and that the
enactment was not satisfied by the company's providing cars
assigned exclusively to people of color, though they were as
good as those which they assigned exclusively to white persons. Railroad Company v. Brown, 17 Wall. 445.
Upon the other hand, where a statute of Louisiana required
those engaged in the transportation of passengers among the
States to give to all persons travelling within that State, upon
vessels employed in that business, equal rights and privileges
in all parts of the vessel, without distinction on account of
race or color, and subjected to an action for damages the
owner of such a vessel, who excluded colored passengers on
account of their color from the cabin set aside by him for the
use of whites, it was held to be so far as it applied to interstate
commerce, unconstitutional and void. Hall v. .De Cuir, 95
U. S. 485. The court in this case, however, expressly disclaimed that it had anything whatever to do with the statute
as a regulation of internal commerce, or affecting anything
else than commerce among the States.
In the Civil Rights case, 109 U. S. 3, it was held that an
act of Congress, entitling all persons within the jurisdiction of
the United States to the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of inns,
public conveyances, on land or water, theatres and other
places of public amusement, and made applicable to citizens
of every race and color, regardless of any previous condition
of servitude, was unconstitutional and void, upon the ground
that the Fourteenth Amendment was prohibitory upon the
States only, and the legislation authorized to be adopted by
Congress for enforcing it was not direct legislation on matters
respecting which the States were prohibited from making or
enforcing certain laws, or doing certain acts, but was corrective legislation, such as might be necessary or proper for counteracting and redressing the effect of such laws or acts. In
delivering the opinion of the court Mr. Justice Bradley observed that the Fourteenth Amendment "does not invest Congress with power to legislate upon subjects that are within the

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

domain of state legislation; but to provide modes of relief
against state legislation, or state action, of the kind referred
to. It does not authorize Congress to create a code of municipal law for the regulation of private rights; but to provide
modes of redress against the operation of state laws, and the
action of state officers, executive or judicial, when these are
subversive of the fundamental rights specified in the amendment. Positive rights and privileges are undoubtedly secured
by the Fourteenth Amendment; but they are secured by way
of prohibition against state laws and state proceedings affecting those rights and privileges, and by power given to Congress to legislate for the purpose of carrying such prohibition
into effect; and such legislation must necessarily be predicated
upon such supposed state laws or state proceedings, and be
directed to the correction of their operation and effect."
Much nearer, and, indeed, almost directly in point, is the
case of the Zouiville, New Orleans &c. Railway v. Xi8si88ippi, 133 U. S. 587, wherein the railway company was indicted for a violation of a statute of Mississippi, enacting that
all railroads carrying passengers should provide equal, but
separate, accommodations for the white and colored races, by
providing two or more passenger cars for each passenger
train, or by dividing the passenger cars by a partition, so as
to secure separate accommodations. The case was presented
in a different aspect from the one under consideration, inasmuch as it was an indictment against the railway company
for failing to provide the separate accommodations, but the
question considered was the constitutionality of the law. In
that case, the Supreme Court of Mississippi, 66 Mississippi.
662, had held that the statute applied solely to commerce
within the State, and, that being the construction of the state
statute by its highest court, was accepted as conclusive. "If
it be a matter," said the court, p. 591, "respecting commerce
wholly within a State, and not interfering with commerce
between the States, then, obviously, there is no violation of
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
No question arises under this section, as to the power of the
State to separate in different compartments interstate pas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

sengers, or affect, in any manner, the privileges and rights of
such passengers. All that we can consider is, whether the
State has the power to require that railroad trains within her
limits shall have separate accommodations for the two races;
that affecting only commerce within the State is no invasion
of the power given to Congress by the commerce clause."
A like course of reasoning applies to the case under consideration, since the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the case of
the State ex rel. Abbott v. flicks, Judge, et al., 44 La. Ann. 770,
held that the statute in question did not apply to interstate
passengers, but was confined in its application to passengers
travelling exclusively within the borders of the State. The
case was decided largely upon the authority of Railway Co.
v. State, 66 Mississippi, 662, and affirmed by this court in 133
U. S. 587. In the present case no question of interference
with interstate commerce can possibly arise, since the East
Louisiana Railway appears to have been purely a local line,
with both its termini within the State of Louisiana. Similar
statutes for the separation of the two races upon public conveyances were held to be constitutional in West Chester &c.
Railroadv. Miles, 55 Penn. St. 209; Day v. Owen, 5 Michigan,
520; Chicago &o.Railway v. Williams, 55 Illinois, 185; Chesa_veake &c. Railroad v. Wells, 85 Tennessee, 613; .kemphis &~c.
Railroadv. Benson, 85 Tennessee, 627; The Sue, 22 Fed. Rep.
843; Logwood v. Jifemphis &c. Railroad,23 Fed. Rep. 318;
.McGuinn v. Forbes, 37 Fed. Rep. 639; People v. King, 18
N. E. Rep. 245; Iouck v. South Pac. Railway, 38 Fed. Rep.
226; Beard v. Georgia RailroadCo., 3 Int. Com. Com'n, 111;
S. C., 1 Ibid. 428.
While we think the enforced separation of the races, as applied to the internal commerce of the State, neither abridges
the privileges or immunities of the colored man, deprives him
of his property without due process of law, nor denies him the
equal protection of the laws, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, we are not prepared to say that the con.ductor,in assigning passengers to the coaches according to their
race, does not act at his peril, or that the provision of the second section of the act, that denies to the passenger compensa-

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Opinion of the Court.

tion in damages for a refusal to receive him into the coach in
which he properly belongs, is a valid exercise of the legislative power. Indeed, we understand it to be conceded by the
State's attorney, that such part of the act as exempts from
liability the railway company and its officers is unconstitutional. The power to assign to a particular coach obviously
implies the power to determine to which race the passenger
belongs, as well as the power to determine who, under the
laws of the particular State, is to be deemed a white, and who
a colored person. This question, though indicated in the brief
of the plaintiff in error, does not properly arise upon the
record in this case, since the only issue made is as to the
unconstitutionality of the act, so far as it requires the railway
to provide separate accommodations, and the conductor to
assign passengers according to their race.
It is claimed by the plaintiff in error that, in any mixed community, the reputation of belonging to the dominant race, in
this instance the white race, isproperty,in the same sense that
a right of action, or of inheritance, is property. Conceding
this to be so, for the purposes of this case, we are unable to
see how this statute deprives him of, or in any way affects his
right to, such property. If he be a white man and assigned
to a colored coach, he may have his action for damages against
the company for being deprived of his so called property.
Upon the other hand, if he be a colored man and be so assigned, he has been deprived of no property, since he is not
lawfully entitled to the reputation of being a white man.
In this connection, it is also suggested by the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error that the same argument that will
justify the state legislature in requiring railways to provide
separate accommodations for the two races will also authorize
them to require separate cars to be provided for people whose
hair is of a certain color, or who are aliens, or who belong to
certain nationalities, or to enact laws requiring colored people
to walk upon one side of the street, and white people upon
the other, or requiring white men's houses to be painted
white, and colored men's black, or their vehicles or business
signs to be of different colors, upon the theory that one side

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the street is as good as the other, or that a house or vehicle
of one color is as good as one of another color. The reply to
all this is that every exercise of the police power must be
reasonable, and extend only to such laws as are enacted in
good faith for the promotion for the public good, and not
for the annoyance or oppression of a particular class. Thus
in Yiel
eFo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, it was held by this
court that a municipal ordinance of the city of San Francisco,
to regulate the carrying on of public laundries within the
limits of the municipality, violated the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, if it conferred upon the municipal authorities arbitrary power, at their own will, and
-without regard to discretion, in the legal sense of the. term,
to give or withhold consent as to persons or places, without
regard to the competency of the persons applying, or the propriety of the places selected for the carrying on of the business.
It was held to be a covert attempt on the part of the municipality to make an arbitrary and unjust discrimination against
the Chinese race. While this was the case of a municipal
ordinance, a like principle has been held to apply to acts of
a state legislature passed in the exercise of the police power.
Railroad Company v. lliisen, 95 U. S. 465; Louisville &
NA ashville Railroad v. ]_enucey, 161 U. S. 677, and cases
cited on p. 700; Daggett v. -udson, 43 Ohio St. 5418; Cafpem
v. Foste, 12 Pick. 485; State ex rel. Wood v. -Baker,38 Wisconsin, 71; .Monroe v. Collins, 17 Ohio St. 665; Hulseman v.
Riems, 41 Penn. St. 396; Orman v. Riley, 15 California, 48.
So far, then, as a conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment
is concerned, the case reduces itself to the question whether
the statute of Louisiana is a reasonable regulation, and with
respect to this there must necessarily be a large discretion on
the part of the legislature. In determining the question of
reasonableness it is at liberty to act with reference to the established usages, customs and traditions of the people, and
with a view to the promotion of their comfort, and the preservation of the public peace and good order. Gauged by this
standard, we cannot say that a law which authorizes or even
requires the separation of the two races in public conveyances

PLESSY v. FERGUSOK.
Opinion of the Court.

is unreasonable, or more obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment than the acts of Congress requiring separate schools for
colored children in the District of Columbia, the constitutionality of which does not seem to have been questioned, or the
corresponding acts of state legislatures.
We consider the underlying fallacy of the plaintiff's argument to consist in the assumption that the enforced separation
of the two races stamps the colored race with a badge of inferiority. If this be so, it is not by reason of anything found
in the act, but solely because the colored race chooses to put
that construction upon it. The argument necessarily assumes
that if, as has been more than once the case, and is not unlikely to be so again, the colored race should become the
dominant power in the state legislature, and should enact a
law in precisely similar terms, it would thereby relegate the
white race to an inferior position. We imagine that the white
race, at least, would not acquiesce in this assumption. The
argument also assmnes that social prejudices may be overcome
by legislation, and that equal rights cannot be secured to the
negro except by an enforced commingling of the two races.
We caxinot accept this proposition. If the two races are to
meet upon terms of social equality, it must be the result of
natural affinities, a mutual appreciation of each other's merits
and a voluntary consent of individuals. As was said by the
Court of Appeals of New York in People v. Gallagher, 93
N. Y. 438, 448, "this end can neither be accomplished nor
promoted by laws which conflict with the general sentiment
of the community upon whom they are designed to operate.
When the government, therefore, has secured to each of its
citizens equal rights before the law and equal opportunities for
improvement and progress, it has accomplished the end for
which it was organized and performed all of the functions
respecting social advantages with which it is endowed."
Legislation is powerless to eradicate racial instincts or to
abolish distinctions based upon physical differences, and the
attempt to do so can only result in accentuating the difficulties
of the present situation. If the civil and political rights of
both races be equal one cannot be inferior to the other civilly

OCTOBER TERAf, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan,

.

or politically. If one race be inferior to the other socially,
the Constitution of the United States cannot put them upon
the same plane.
It is true that the question of the proportion of colored
blood necessary to constitute a colored person, as distinguished
from a white person, is one upon which there is a difference
of opinion in the different States, some holding that any visible admixture of black blood stamps the person as belonging
to the colored race, (State v. Clavers, 5 Jones, [:N. 0.] ], p. 11);
others that it depends upon the preponderance of blood, (Gray
v. State, 4 Ohio, 354; .Afonroe v. Collins, 17 Ohio St. 665);
and still others that the predominance of white blood must
only be in the proportion of three fourths. (People v. Dean,
14 Michigan, 406; Jones v. Commonwealth, 80 Virginia, 538.)
But these are questions to be determined under the laws of
each State and are not properly put in issue in this case.
Under the allegations of his petition it may undoubtedly become a question of importance whether, under the laws of
Louisiana, the petitioner belongs to the white or colored race.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Aflirmed.
MR. JUSTICE UAMLA dissenting.
By the Louisiana statute, the validity of which is here involved, all railway companies (other than street railroad
companies) carrying passengers in that State are required
to have separate but equal accommodations for white and
colored persons, "by providing two or more passenger coaches
for each passenger train, or by dividing the passenger coaches
by a partition so as to secure separate accommodations."
Under this statute, no colored person is permitted to occupy
a seat in a coach assigned to white persons; nor any white
person, to occupy a seat in a coach assigned to colored persons.
The managers of the railroad are not allowed to exercise any
discretion in the premises, but are required to assign each
passenger to some coach or compartment set apart for the exclusive use of his race. If a passenger insists upon going into
a coach or compartment not set apart for persons of his ra-e,

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

he is subject to be fined, or to be imprisoned in the parish
jail. Penalties are prescribed for the refusal or neglect of the
officers, directors, conductors and employ~s of railroad companies to comply with the provisions of the act.
Only "nurses attending children of the other race" are excepted from the operation of the statute. No exception is
made of colored attendants travelling with adults. A white
man is not permitted to have his colored servant with him in
the same coach, even if his condition of health requires the
constant, personal assistance of such servant. If a colored
maid insists upon riding in the same coach with a white
woman whom she has been employed to serve, and who may
need her personal attention while travelling, she is subject to
be fined or imprisoned for such an exhibition of zeal in the
discharge of duty.
While there may be in Louisiana persons of different races
who are not citizens of the United States, the words in the act,
"white and colored races," necessarily include all citizens of
the United States of both races residing in that State. So
that we have before us a state enactment that compels, under
penalties, the separation of the two races in railroad passenger coaches, and makes it a crime for a citizen of either race
to enter a coach that has been assigned to citizens of the
other race.
Thus the State regulates the use of a public highway by
citizens of the United States solely upon the basis of race.
However apparent the injustice of such legislation may be,
we have only to consider whether it is consistent with the
Constitution of the United States.
That a railroad is a public highway, and that the corporation which owns or operates it is in the exercise of public functions, is not, at this day, to be disputed. Mr. Justice Nelson,
speaking for this court in .NTew Jer8ey Steam Navigation Co.
v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 344, 382, said that a common
carrier was in the exercise "of a sort of public office, and has
public duties to perform, from which he should not be permitted to exonerate himself without the assent of the parties
concerned." Mr. Justice Strong, delivering the judgment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

this court in Olcott v. The Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678, 694, said:

"That railroads, though constructed by private corporations
and owned by them, are public highways, has been the doctrine of nearly all the courts ever since such conveniences for
passage and transportation have had any existence. Very early
the question arose whether a State's right of eminent domain
could be exercised by a private corporation created for the
purpose of constructing a railroad. Clearly it could not,
unless taking land for such a purpose by such an agency is
taking land for public use. The right of eminent domain
nowhere justifies taking property for a private use. Yet
it is a doctrine universally accepted that a state legislature
may authorize a private corporation to take land'for the construction of such a road, making compensation to the owner.
What else does this doctrine mean if not that building a railroad, though it be built by a private corporation, is an act
done for a public use ?" So, in Township of Pine Grove v.
Talcott, 19 Wall. 666, 676: "Though the corporation [a railroad company] was private, its work was public, as much so as
if it were to be constructed by the State." So, in Inhabitantg
of Worcester v. Mestern Railroad Corporation, 4 Met. 564:
"The establishment of that great thoroughfare is regarded as
a public work, established by public authority, intended for
the public use and benefit, the use of which is secured to
the whole community, and constitutes, therefore, like a canal,
turnpike or highway, a public easement." It is true that the
real and personal property, necessary to the establishment
and management of the railroad, is vested in the corporation;
but it is in trust for the public."
In respect of civil rights, common to all citizens, the Constitution of the United States does not, I think, permit any public authority to know the race of those entitled to be protected
in the enjoyment of such rights. Every true man has pride
of race, and under appropriate circumstances when the rights
of others, his equals before the law, are not to be affected,
it is his privilege to express such pride and to take such action
based upon it as to him seems proper. But I deny that any
legislative body or judicial tribunal may have regard to the

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

race of citizens when the civil rights of those citizens are involved. Indeed, such legislation, as that here in question, is
inconsistent not only with that equality of rights which pertains to citizenship, National and State, but with the personal
liberty enjoyed by every one within the United States.
The Thirteenth Amendment does not permit the withholding or the deprivation of any right necessarily inhering in
frcedom. It not only struck down the institution of slavery
as previously existing in the United States, but it prevents the
imposition of any burdens or disabilities that constitute badges
of slavery or servitude. It decreed universal civil freedom in
this country. This court has so adjudged. But that amendment having been found inadequate to the protection of the
rights of those who had been in slavery, it was followed by
the Fourteenth Amendment, which added greatly to the dignity and glory of American citizenship, and to the security of
personal liberty, by declaring that "all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction
thereof, are citizens of -the United States and of the State
wherein they reside," and that "no State shall make or enforce any lav which shall abridge the privileges or immunities
of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive
any person of life, liberty or property without due process of
law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws." These two amendments, if enforced
according to their true intent and meaning, will protect all
the civil rights that pertain to freedom and citizenship.
Finally, and to the end that no citizen should be denied, on account of his race, the privilege of participating in the political
control of his country, it was declared by the Fifteenth Amendment that " the right of citizens of the United States to vote shall
not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State
on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude."
These notable additions to the fundamental law were welcomed by the friends of liberty throughout the world. They
removed the race line from our governmental systems. They
had, as this court has said, a common purpose, namely, to
secure "to a race recently emancipated, a race that through

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

many generations have been held in slavery, all the civil rights
that the superior race enjoy." They declared, in legal effect,
this court has further said, "that the law in the States shall
be the same for the black as for the white; that all persons,
whether colored or white, shall stand equal before the laws of
the States, and, in regard to the colored race, for whose protection the amendment was primarily designed, that no discrimination shall be made against them by law because of
their color." We also said: "The words of the amendment,
it is true, are prohibitory, but they contain a necessary implication of a positive immunity, or right, most valuable to
the colored race- the right to exemption from unfriendly
legislation against them distinctively as colored -exemption
from legal discriminations, implying inferiority in civil society,
lessening the security of their enjoyment of the rights which
others enjoy, and discriminations which are steps towards reducing them to the condition of a subject race." It was, consequently, adjudged that a state law that excluded citizens of
the colored race from juries, because of their race and however
well qualified in other respects to discharge the duties of jurymen, was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. Strauder
v. lest Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, 306, 307; Yirginia v. Rives,
100 U. S. 313; Exparte irginia, 100 U. S. 339; INeal v.
Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, 386; Buek v. Eentucky, 107 U. S.
110, 116. At the present term, referring to the previous adjudications, this court declared that "underlying all of those
decisions is the principle that the Constitution of the United
States, in its present form, forbids, so far as civil and political
rights are concerned, discrimination by the General Government or the States against any citizen because of his race.
8sissippi,
All citizens are equal before the law." Gib8on v.
162 U. S. 565.
The decisions referred to show the scope of the recent
amendments of the Constitution. They also show that it is
not within the power of a State to prohibit colored citizens,
because of their race, from participating as jurors in the
administration of justice.
It was said in argument that the statute of Louisiana does

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

not discriminate against either race, but prescribes a rule
applicable alike to white and colored citizens. But this
argument does not meet the difficulty. Every one knows
that the statute in question had its origin in the purpose, not
so much to exclude white persons from railroad cars occupied
by blacks, as to exclude colored people from coaches occupied
by or assigned to white persons. Railroad corporations of
Louisiana did not make discrimination among whites in the
matter of accommodation for travellers. The thing to accomplish was, under the guise of giving equal accommodation for
whites and blacks, to compel the latter to keep to themselves
while travelling in railroad passenger coaches. No one would
be so wanting in candor as to assert the contrary. The fundamental objection, therefore, to the statute is that it interferes
with the personal freedom of citizens. ":Personal liberty,"
it has been well said, "consists in the power of locomotion,
of changing situation, or removing one's person to whatsoever
places one's own inclination may direct, without imprisonment or restraint, unless by due course of law." 1 B1. Com.
*134. If a white man and a black man choose to occupy the
same public conveyance on a public highway, it is their right
to do so, and no government, proceeding alone on grounds of
race, can prevent it without infringing the personal liberty of
each.
It is one thing for railroad carriers to furnish, or to be required by law to furnish, equal accommodations for all whom
they are under a legal duty to carry. It is quite another
thing for government to forbid citizens of the white and black
races from travelling in the same public conveyance, and to
punish officers of railroad companies for permitting persons
of the two races to occupy the same passenger coach. If a
State can prescribe, as a rule of civil conduct, that whites and
blacks shall not travel as passengers in the same railroad
coach, why may it not so regulate the use of the streets of its
cities and towns as to compel white citizens to keep on one
side of a street and black citizens to keep on the other? Why
may it not, upon like grounds, punish whites and blacks who
ride together in street cars or in open vehicles on a public road

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

or street? Why-may it not require sheriffs to assign whites to
one side of a court-room and blacks to the other? And why
may it not also prohibit the commingling of the two races in
the galleries of legislative halls or in public assemblages convened for the consideration of the political questions of the day?
Further, if this statute of Louisiana is consistent with the personal liberty of citizens, why may not the State require the separation in railroad coaches of native and naturalized citizens of
the United States, or of Protestants and Roman Catholics?
The answer given at the argument to these questions was
that regulations of .the kind they suggest would be unreasonable, and could not, therefore, stand before the law. Is it
meant that the determination of questions of legislative power
depends upon the inquiry whether the statute whose validity
is questioned is, in the judgment of the courts, a reasonable
one, taking all the circumstances into consideration? A
statute may be unreasonable merely because a sound public
policy forbade its enactment. But I do not understand that
the courts have anything to do with the policy or expediency
of legislation. A statute may be valid, and yet, upon grounds
of public policy, may well be characterized as unreasonable.
Mr. Sedgwick correctly states the rule when he says that the
legislative intention being clearly ascertained, "the courts have
no other duty to perform than to execute the legislative will,
without any regard to their views as to the wisdom or justice
of the particular enactment." Stat. & Const. Constr. 32k.
There is a dangerous tendency in these latter days to enlarge
the functions of the courts, by means of judicial interference
with the will of the people as expressed by the legislature.
Our institutions have the distinguishing characteristic that the
three departments of government are cobrdinate and separate.
Each must keep within the limits defined by the Constitution.
And the courts best discharge their duty by executing the
will of the law-making p6wer, constitutionally expressed, leaving the results of legislation to be dealt with by the people
through their representatives. Statutes must alvays have a
reasonable construction. Sometimes they are to be construed
strictly; sometimes, liberally, in order to carry out the legisla-

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

tive will. But however construed, the intent of the legislature
is to be respected, if the particular statute in question is valid,
although the courts, looking at the public interests, may conceive the statute to be both unreasonable and impolitic. If the
power exists to enact a statute, that ends the matter so far as
the courts are concerned. The adjudged cases in which statutes have been held to be void, because unreasonable, are those
in which the means employed by the legislature were not at
all germane to the end to which the legislature was competent.
The white race deems itself to be the dominant race in this
country. And so it is, in prestige, in achievements, in education, in wealth and in power. So, I doubt not, it will continue
to be for all time, if it remains true to its great heritage and
holds fast to the principles of constitutional liberty. But in
view of the Constitution, in the eye of the law, there is in this
country no superior, dominant, ruling class of citizens. There
is no caste here. Our Constitution is color-blind, and neither
knows nor tolerates classes among citizens. In respect of
civil rights, all citizens are equal before the law. The humblest is the peer of the most powerful. The law regards man
as man, and takes no account of his surroundings or of his
color when his civil rights as guaranteed by the supreme law
of the land are involved. It is, therefore, to be regretted that
this high tribunal, the final expositor of the fundamental law
of the land, has reached the conclusion that it is competent
for a State to regulate the enjoyment by citizens of their civil
rights solely upon the basis of race.
In my opinion, the judgment this day rendered will, in
time, prove to be quite as pernicious as the decision made by
this tribunal in the Dred Scott case. It was adjudged in that
case that the descendants of Africans who were imported into
this country and sold as slaves were not included nor intended
to be included under the word "citizens" in the Constitution,
and could not claim any of the rights and privileges which
that instrument provided for and secured to citizens of the
United States; that at the time of the adoption of the Constitution they were "considered as a subordinate and inferior
class of beings, who had been subjugated by the dominant

OCTOBER TERM. 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

race, and, whether emancipated or not, yet remained subject
to their authority, and had no rights or 1rivileges but such as
those who held the power and the government might choose
to grant them." 19 How. 393, 404. The recent amendments
of the Constitution, it was supposed, had eradicated these
principles from our institutions. But it seems that we have
yet, in some of the States, a dominant race-a superior class
of citizens, which assumes to regulate the enjoyment of civil
rights, common to all citizens, upon the basis of race. The
present decision, it may well be apprehended, will not only
stimulate aggressions, more or less brutal and irritating, upon
the admitted rights of colored citizens, but will encourage the
belief that it is possible, by means of state enactments, to
defeat the beneficent purposes which the people of the United
States had in view when they adopted the recent amendments
of the Constitution, by one of which the blacks of this country were made citizens of the United States and of the States
in which they respectively reside, and whose privileges and
immunities, as citizens, the States are forbidden to abridge.
Sixty millions of whites are in no danger from the presence
here of eight millions of blacks. The destinies of the two
races, in this country, are indissolubly linked together, and the
interests of both require that the common government of all
shall not permit the seeds of race hate to be planted under the
sanction of law. What can more certainly arouse race hate,
what more certainly create and perpetuate a feeling of distrust
between these races, than state enactments, which, in fact, proceed on the ground that colored citizens are so inferior and degraded that they cannot be allowed to sit in public coaches
occupied by white citizens? That, as all will admit, is the
real meaning of such legislation as was enacted in Louisiana.
The sure guarantee of the peace and security of each race
is the clear, distinct, unconditional recognition by our governinents, National and State, of every right that inheres in civil
freedom, and of the equality before the law of all citizens of
the United States without regard to race. State enactments,
regulating the enjoyment of civil rights, upon the basis of
race, and cunningly devised to defeat legitimate results of the

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

war, under the pretence of recognizing equality of rights, can
have no other result than to render permanent peace impossible, and to keep alive a conflict of races, the continuance of
which must do harm to all concerned. This question is not
met by the suggestion that social equality cannot exist between
the white and black races in this country. That argument,
if it can be properly regarded as one, is scarcely worthy of
consideration; for social equality no more exists between two
races when travelling in a passenger coach or a public highway
than when members of the same races sit by each other in a
street car or in the jury box, or stand or sit with each other
in a political assembly, or when they use in common the streets
of a city or town, or when they are in the same room for the
purpose of having their names placed on the registry of voters,
or when they approach the ballot-box in order to exercise the
high privilege of voting.
There is a race so different from our own that we do not
permit those belonging to it to become citizens of the United
States. Persons belonging to it are, with few exceptions,
absolutely excluded from our country. I allude to the Chinese race. But by the statute in question, a Chinaman can
ride in the same passenger coach with white citizens of the
United States, while citizens of the black race in Louisiana,
many of whom, perhaps, risked their lives for the preservation of the Union, who are entitled, by law, to participate in
the political control of the State and nation, who are not excluded, by law or by reason of their race, from public stations
of any kind, and who have all the legal rights that belong to
white citizens, are yet declared to be criminals, liable to imprisonment, if they ride in a public coach occupied by citizens
of the white race. It is scarcely just to say that a colored
citizen should not object to occupying a public coach assigned
to his own race. He does not object, nor, perhaps, would he
object to separate coaches for his race, if his rights under the
law were recognized. But he objects, and ought never to cease
objecting to the proposition, that citizens of the white and
black races can be adjudged criminals because they sit, or claim
the right to sit, in the same public coach on a public highway.
VOL. CLXfl-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

The arbitrary separation of citizens, on the basis of race,
while they are on a public highway, is a badge of servitude
wholly inconsistent with the civil freedom and the equality
before the law established by the Constitution. It cannot be
justified upon any legal grounds.
If evils will result from the commingling of the two races
upon public highways established for the benefit of all, they
will be infinitely less than those that will surely come from
state legislation regulating the enjoyment of civil rights upon
the basis of race. We boast of the freedom enjoyed by our
people above all other peoples. But it is difficult to reconcile
that boast with a state of the law which, practically, puts the
brand of servitude and degradation upon a large class of our
fellow-citizens, our equals before the law. The thin disguise of
CC
equal" accommodations for passengers in railroad coaches will
not mislead any one, nor atone for the wrong this day done.
The result of the whole matter is, that while this court has
frequently adjudged, and at the present term has recognized
the doctrine, that a State cannot, consistently with the Constitution of the United States, prevent white and black citizens,
having the required qualifications for jury service, from sitting in the same jury box, it is now solemnly held that a State
may prohibit white and black citizens from sitting in the same
passenger coach on a public highway, or may require that they
be separated by a "partition," when in the same passenger
coach. May it not now be reasonably expected that astute
men of the dominant race, who affect to be disturbed at the
possibility that the integrity of the white race may be corrupted, or that its supremacy will be imperilled, by contact on
public highways with black people, will endeavor to procure
statutes requiring white and black jurors to be separated in
the jury box by a "partition," and that, upon retiring from
the court room to consult as to their verdict, such partition,
if it be a moveable one, shall be taken to their consultation
room, and set up in such way as to prevent black jurors from
coming too close to their brother jurors of the white race. If
the "partition" used in the court room happens to be stationary, provision could be made for screens with openings through

PLESSY v. FERGUSON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

which jurors of the two races could confer as to their verdict
without coming into personal contact with each other. I cannot see but that, according to the principles this day announced,
such state legislation, although conceived in hostility to, and
enacted for the purpose of humiliating citizens of the United
States of a particular race, would be held to be consistent
with the Constitution.
I do not deem it necessary to review the decisions of state
courts to which reference was made in argument. Some, and
the most important, of them are wholly inapplicable, because
rendered prior to the adoption of the last amendments of the
Constitution, when colored people had very few rights which
the dominant race felt obliged to respect. Others were made
at a time when public opinion, in many localities, was dominated by the institution of slavery; when it would not have
been safe to do justice to the black man; and when, so far as
the rights of blacks were concerned, race prejudice was, practically, the supreme law of the land. Those decisions cannot
be guides in the era introduced by the recent amendments of
the supreme law, which established universal civil freedom,
gave citizenship to all born or naturalized in the United States
and residing here, obliterated the race line from our systems
of governments, National and State, and placed our free institutions upon the broad and sure foundation of the equality
of all men before the law.
I am of opinion that the statute of Louisiana is. inconsistent
with the personal liberty of citizens, white and black, in that
State, and hostile to both the spirit and letter of the Constitution of the United States. If laws of like character should
be enacted in the several States of the Union, the effect would
be in the highest degree mischievous. Slavery, as an institution tolerated by law would, it is true, have disappeared from
our country, but there would remain a power in the States,
by sinister legislation, to interfere with the full enjoyment of
the blessings of freedom; to regulate civil rights, common to
all citizens, upon the basis of race; and to place in a condition
of legal inferiority a large body of American citizens, now
constituting a part of the political community called the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

People of the United States, for whom, and by whom through
representatives, our government is administered. Such a system is inconsistent with the guarantee given by the Constitution to each State of a republican form of government, and
may be stricken down by Congressional action, or by the
courts in the discharge of their solemn duty to maintain the
supreme law of the land, anything in the constitution or laws
of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.
For the reasons stated, I am constrained to withhold my
assent from the opinion and judgment of the majority.
MR. JusTo B.wEER did not hear the argument or participate in the decision of this case.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPIANY et al.1 v.
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY

COMPANY.

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 15T, 158. Argued Aprl 21, 22,1896.-Decided May 25,1896.

Railroad corporations possess the powers which are expressly conferred
by their charters, together with such powers as are fairly incidental
thereto; and they cannot, except with the consent of the State, disable
themselves from the discharge of the functions, duties and obligations
which they have assumed.
The general rule is that a contract by which a railroad company renders
itself incapable of performing its duties to the public or attempts to
absolve itself from those obligations without the consent of the State,
I The other party was The Omaha and Republican Valley Railway Com.pany.

