OCTOBER TERM-,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

It has been frequently held that the authority of this court
on appeal from the Supreme Court of a Territory is limited to
determining whether the court's findings of fact support its
judgment or decree, and whether there is any error in rulings
duly excepted to in the admission or rejection of evidence.
San Pedro Company v. United States, 146 U. S. 120; .Iarnmoth Xining Co. v. SaU Lake .Machine Co., 151 U. S. 447,
450; idaho &f Oregon Land Co. v. Braduryj,132 U. S. 509,
514; Hlaws v. Victoria Copper Mining Co., 160 U. S. 303,
312. Without denying the authority of this court to find error
in the judgment of the Supreme Court of a Territory, even
in passing on a question of practice, we certainly should not
feel inclined to exercise such authority unless we were able to
perceive that injustice had been done; and as this record presents us with no statement of the facts to enable us to determine whether the facts found were sufficient to sustain the
judgment rendered, and with no exceptions taken to rulings
in the admission or rejection of evidence, there is nothing here
which we can examine. It follows that the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah must be and is
.Affirmed.

BARNITZ v. BEVERLY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 863. Submitted April 18, 1896.-Decided May 18, 1696.

A4 state statute which authorizes the redemption of property sold upon
foreclosure of a mortgage, where no right of redemption previously existed, or which extends the period of redemption beyond the time formerly allowed, cannot constitutionally apply to a sale under a mortgage
executed before its passage.

ON November 1, 1885, George A. Kirtland executed to
Martha Barnitz several promissory notes, covering a principal
debt of $1500 and interest, payable semi-annually for five
years, at the rate of eight per cent per annum, and after ma-

BARNITZ v. BEVERLY.
Statement of the Case.

turity at the rate of twelve per cent per annum. These notes
were secured by a mortgage of the same date upon a quarter
section of land in Shawnee County, Kansas. The principal
note and the last note for interest not having been paid, an
action was commenced, on January 21, 1893, in the District
Court of Shawnee County by Martha Barnitz to recover on said
unpaid notes and to foreclose the mortgage. John L. Beverly
and others were made co-defendants with Kirtland. On
July 7, 1893, a judgment was rendered against Kirtland for
the sum. of $2113.46 and costs, and against him and the other
defendants for the foreclosure of the mortgage and the sale of
the mortgaged premises. Appraisement having been waived,
the judgment, pursuing the laws of Kansas, provided for a
stay of execution for six months, and that interest should run
at the rate of twelve per cent per annum. On January 9,
1894, an order of sale was issued, and on February 12, 1894,
the mortgaged property was sold thereunder at sheriff's sale
to Martha Barnitz for the sum of $2000. On February 16,
1894, a motion was filed in the District Court for a confirmation of the sale, and this motion came on for hearing on February 26, 1894, when Beverly appeared and claimed to be the
owner of the premises, by virtue of conveyances since the date
of the mortgage, and to be in possession thereof in good faith
by a tenant, and- asked the court to order the sheriff to execute
to the purchaser only a certificate of purchase, as provided
for by chapter 109 of the Laws of Kansas of 1893. The sale
was confirmed, and Beverly's motion was overruled, and the
court ordered that the sheriff should execute to the purchaser,
Martha Barnitz, a deed for the premises.
John L. Beverly took the case on error to the Supreme
Court of the State, and that court, on April 30, 1895, affirmed
the judgment of the District Court. A motion for a rehearing was subsequently allowed- the membership of the Supreme Court having been in the meantime changed- and on
December 7, 1895, the Supreme Court reversed and set aside
its previous decision and judgment, reversed the judgment
and ruling of the District Court, and directed that a sheriff's
deed should not be executed to the purchaser, but that a cer-

OCTOBER TERI, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tificate of purchase should be given, as provided for by chapter 109 of the Laws of 1893.
To this judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas a writ of
error was sued out from this court.
Chapter 109 of the Laws of 1893 is as follows:
"1
SEc. 1. After sale by the sheriff of any real estate on execution, special execution, or order of sale, he shall, if the
real estate sold by him is not subject to redemption, at once
execute a deed therefor to the purchaser; but if the same is
subject to redemption, he shall execute to the purchaser a certificate containing a description of the property and the amount
of money paid by such purchaser, together with the amount
of the costs up to said date, stating that unless redemption is
made within eighteen months thereafter according to law,
that the purchaser or his heirs or assigns will be entitled to
a deed to the same: Provided, That any contract in any
mortgage or deed of trust waiving the right of redemption
shall be null and void.
"SEc. 2. The defendant owner may redeem any real property sold under execution, special execution, or order of sale,
at the amount sold for, together with interest, costs and taxes,
as provided for in this act, at any time within eighteen months
from the day of sale as herein provided, and shall in the meantime be entitled to the possession of the property; but where
the court or judge shall find that the lands and tenements
have been abandoned, or are not occupied in good faith, the
period of redemption for defendant owner shall be six months
from the date of sale, and all junior lien holders shall be entitled to three months to redeem after the expiration of said
six months."
"S1Eo. 23. Real estate once sold upon order of sale, special
execution or general execution shall not again be liable for
sale for any balance due upon the judgment or decree under
which the same is sold, or any judgment or lien inferior
thereto, and under which the holder of such lien had a right
to redeem within the fifteen months hereinbefore provided
for.
"SEc. 2-. The holder of the certificate of. purchase shall be

BARNITZ v. BEVERLY.
Opinion of the Court.

entitled to prevent any waste or destruction of the premises
purchased, and for that purpose the court, on proper showing,
may issue an injunction; or, when required to protect said
premises against waste, appoint and place in charge thereof a
receiver, who shall hold said premises until such time as the
purchaser is entitled to a deed, and shall be entitled to rent,
control and manage the same, but the income during said
time, except what is necessary to keep up repairs and prevent
waste, shall go to the owner or defendant in execution, or the
owner of its legal title.
"SEC. 25. The provisions of this act shall apply to all sales
under foreclosure of mortgage, trust deed, mechanics' lien or
other lien, whether special or general, and the terms of redemption shall be the same.
"SEC. 26. The sheriff shall at once make a return of all
sales made under this act to the court; and the court, if it
finds the proceedings regular and in conformity with law and
equity, shall confirm the same and direct that the clerk make
an entry upon the journal that the court finds that the sale
has in all respects been made in conformity to law, and order
that the sheriff make to the purchaser the certificate of sale
or deed provided for in section I of this act."
.M .
.XD.T.
Valentine, Mr. A. A. Godard,.Mr. Leonard S.
Ferry and Mr. Thomas F. Doran for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. E. A. .Mc.fat and Mir. William J. Scott for defendant
inerror.
AIR. JUSTICE SEIRAs,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
No provision of the Constitution of the United States has
received more frequent consideration by this court than that
which provides that no State shall pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts. This very frequency would
appear to have rendered it difficult to apply the result of
the court's deliberations to new cases differing somewhat in
their facts from those previously considered.

O.CTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

This record discloses that, in the present case, the Supreme
Court of Kansas filed two opinions, in which, after elaborate
reviews of the decisions of this court, opposite conclusions
were reached. The case was twice argued and decided. On
the first hearing a majority of that court held, expressing its
views in an opinion by Chief Justice Horton, that chapter 109
of the Laws of Kansas of 1893 did not apply to contracts
made before its passage, and that, if it did so apply, the law
was void, as respects prior contracts, because it impaired their
obligations.
A change in the membership of the court having taken
place, a rehearing was had; and it was held by a majority of
the court, speaking through Chief Justice Martin, that the
act in question was applicable and valid in the case of contracts made before and after its passage. Beverly v. Barnitz,
55 Kansas, 451, 466.
It is the last decision which is brought before us for review.
In so far as it construes the act to be applicable to prior contracts, we are, of course, bound by that decision. Whether,
when so construed, the act is valid, is a question open for our
consideration.
The decisions of this court are numerous in which
it has
been held that the laws which prescribe the mode of enforcing a contract, which are in existence when it is made, are
so far a part of the contract that no changes in these laws
which seriously interfere with that enforcement are valid,
because they impair its obligation within the meaning of the
Constitution of the United States. But it will be sufficient
for our present purpose to mention a few only.
Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311, 316, holds that a state law,
passed subsequently to the execution of a mortgage, which
declares that the equitable estate of the mortgagor shall not
be extinguished for twelve months after a sale under a decree
in chancery, and which prevents any sale unless two thirds
of the amount at which the property has been valued by
appraisers shall be bid therefor, is within the clause of the
Constitution of the United States which prohibits a State
from passing a law impairing the obligation of contracts. In

BARNITZ v. BEVERLY.
Opinion of the Court.

this case, the court dealt with the contention, usually made
on these occasions and which is relied on by the defendants
in error in the present case, that the law was a regulation
of the remedy and did not directly affect the contract; and
Chief Justice Taney said:
"Whatever belongs merely to the remedy may be altered
according to the will of the State, provided the alteration
does not impair the obligation of the contract. But if that
effect is produced, it is immaterial whether it is done by
acting on the remedy or directly on the contract itself. In
either case it is prohibited by the Constitution."
And he quoted the language of the court in Green v.
Biddle, 8 Wheat. 75:
"It is no answer that the acts of Kentucky now in question are regulations of the remedy, and not of the right to
the lands. If these acts so change the nature and extent
of existing remedies as materially to impair the rights and
interests of the owners, they are just as much a violation
of the compact as if they directly overturned his rights and
interests. .
.
If the remedy afforded be qualified and
restrained by conditions of any kind, the right of the owner
may, indeed, subsist, and be acknowledged, but it is impaired,
and rendered insecure, according to the nature and extent of
such restrictions."
Proceeding to apply these principles to the case before him,
the Chief Justice further said:
"It was the plaintiff's absolute and undoubted right, under
an ordinary mortgage deed, if the money is not paid at the
appointed day, to go into the court of chancery and obtain
its order for the sale of the whole mortgaged property, (if
the whole is necessary,) free and discharged from the equitable interest of the mortgagor. This is his right by the law
of the contract; and it is the duty of the court to maintain
and enforce it, without aiy unreasonable delay.
"When this contract was made, no statute had been passed
by the State changing the rules of law or equity in relation
to a contract of this kind. None such, at least, has been
brought to the notice of the court; and it must, therefore, be

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

governed, and the rights of the parties under it measured,
by the rules as above stated. They were the laws of Illinois
at the time; and, therefore, entered into the contract, and
formed a part of it, without any express stipulation to that
effect in the deed. Thus, for example, there is no covenant
in the instrument giving the mortgagor the right to redeem,
by paying the money after the day limited in the deed, and
before he was foreclosed by the decree.

.

.

.

Yet no one

doubts his right or his remedy, for, by the laws of the State
then in force, this right and this remedy were a part of the
law of the contract, without any express agreement by the
parties. So, also, the rights of the mortgagee, as known to
the laws, required no express stipulation to define or secure
them. They were annexed to the contract at the time it was
made, and formed a part of it, and any subsequent law, impairing the rights thus acquired, impairs the obligations which
the contract imposed.
"This brings us to examine the statutes of Illinois which
have given rise to this controversy. As concerns the law of
February 19, 1841, it appears to the court not to act merely
on the remedy, but directly upon the contract itself, and to
engraft upon it new conditions injurious and unjust to the
mortgagee. It declares that, although the mortgaged premises should be sold under the decree of the court of chancery,
yet that the equitable estate of the mortgagor shall not be
extinguished, but shall continue twelve months after the sale;
and it moreover gives a new and like estate, which before had
no existence, to the judgment creditor, to continue for fifteen
months. If such rights may be added to the original contract
by subsequent legislation, it would be difficult to say at what
point they must stop. An equitable interest in the premises
may, in like manner, be conferred upon others; and the right
to redeem may be so prolonged as to deprive the mortgagee
of the benefit of his security by rendering the property unsalable for anything like its value. This law gives to the
mortgagor and to the judgment creditor an equitable estate
in the premises, which neither of them would have been entitled to under the original contract; and these new interests

BARNITZ v. BEVERLY.
Opinion of the Court.

are directly and materially in conflict with those which the
mortgagee acquired when the mortgage was made. Any such
modification of a contract by subsequent legislation, against
the consent of one of the parties unquestionably impairs its
obligations, and is prohibited by the Constitution."
In .MoCracken v. Hayward,2 How. 608, 612, there came for
consideration the validity of a law of the State of Illinois,
providing that a sale shall not be made of property levied on
under an execution, unless it should bring two thirds of its
valuation according to the opinion of three householders.
The opinion of the court was pronounced by Mr. Justice Baldwin, in the course of which he used.the following language:
"In placing the obligation of contracts under the protection
of the Constitution, its framers looked to the essentials of the
contract more than to the form and modes of proceeding by
which it was to be carried into execution; annulling all state
legislation which impaired the obligation, it was left to the
States to provide and shape the remedy to enforce it.
"The obligation of a contract consists in its binding force
on the party who makes it. This depends on the laws in existence when it is made. These are necessarily referred to in
all contracts, and forming a part of them as the measure of
the obligation to perform them by the one party, and the
right acquired by the other. There can be no other standard
by which to ascertain the extent of either than that which
the terms of the contract indicate, according to their settled
legal meaning. When it becomes consummated, the law
defines the duty and the right, compels one party to perform
the thing contracted for, and gives the other a right to enforce the performance by the remedies then in force. If any
subsequent law affect to diminish the duty, or to impair the
right, it necessarily bears on the obligation of the contract,
in favor of one party to the injury of the other; hence any
law, which in its operation amounts to a denial or obstruction
of the rights accruing by a contract, though professing to act
only on the remedy, is directly obnoxious to the prohibition
of the Constitution.

.

.

.

The obligation of the contract

between the parties, in this case, was to perform the promises

OCTOBER TERMV, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and undertakings contained therein; the right of the plaintiff was to damages for the breach thereof, to bring suit and
obtain a judgment, to take out and prosecute an execution
against the defendant till the judgment was satisfied, pursuant
to the existing laws of Illinois.

.

.

Any subsequent law

which denies, obstructs or impairs this right, by superadding
a condition that there shall be no sale for any sum less than
the value of the property levied on, to be ascertained by
appraisement, or any other mode of valuation than a public
sale, affects the obligation of the contract, for it can be enforced only by a sale of the defendant's property, and the
prevention of such sale is the denial of a right. The same
power in a state legislature may be carried to any extent, if
it exists at all; it may prohibit a sale for less than the whole
appraised value, or for three fourths, or nine tenths, as well as
for two thirds, for if the power can be exercised to any extent,
its exercise must be a matter of uncontrollable discretion, in
passing laws relating to the remedy which are regardless of
the effect on the right of the plaintiff."
In Howard v. Bugbee, 21 How. 461, a statute of the State
of Alabama, authorizing a redemption of mortgaged property
in two years after the sale under a decree, by bonacft creditors of the mortgagor, 4as held unconstitutional and void as
to sales made under mortgages executed prior to the enactment. It was contended that the law did not affect the mortgage contract, but only enlarged the time at the completion
of which the purchaser at the mortgage sale would acquire an
indefeasible title, and that the new law only operated as between the purchaser and bona)Ude creditors of the mortgagor.
But this court, through Mr. Justice Nelson, recognized the
cases of Bronson v. Enzie and McCracken v. Hayward as
applicable to and decisive of the case.
Brine v. Insurance Company, 96 U. S. 627, 637, is worthy
of notice, because in that case the court had occasion to apply
the principles of previous cases, announced in protection of
the rights of creditors, to the case of a mortgagor whose land
had been ordered by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois to an immediate sale, in

BARNITZ v. BEVERLY.
Opinion of the Court.

of a law of the State in existence at the time the
mortgage was executed, which allowed to the mortgagor
twelve months to redeem after a sale under a decree of fore-

-disregard

closure, and to his judgment creditor three months after that.

The view of the trial court was that remedy of an immediate sale, by decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
sitting in equity, was not affected by the state statute. But
this court held, through M[r. Justice Miller, that all the laws
of a State existing at the time a mortgage or any other contract is made, which affect the rights of the parties to the
contract, enter into and become a part of it, and are obligatory
on all courts which assume to give a remedy on such contracts
-that the construction, validity and effect of contracts are
governed by the place where they are made and are to be
performed, if that be the same -that it is therefore said that
these laws enter into and become a part of the contract. In
the opinion it was said:
"There is no doubt that a distinction has been drawn, or
attempted to be drawn, between such laws. as regulate the
rights of the parties, and such as apply only to the remedy.
It may be conceded that in some cases such a diqtinction exists. In the recent case of Tennessee v. Sneed, 96 U. S.69, we

held that so long as there remained a sufficient remedy on the
contract, an act of the legislature, changing the form of the
remedy, did not impair the obligation of the contract. But
this doctrine was said to be subject to the limitation that
there remained a remedy which was complete, and which secured all the substantial rights of the party. At all events,
the decisions of this court are numerous that the laws which
prescribe the mode of enforcing a contract, which are in existence when it is made, are so far a part of the contract
that no changes in these laws which seriously interfere with
that enforcement are valid, because they impair its obligation within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States."
The learned justice, in enforcing his argument, quoted
largely from the opinion of Chief Justice Taney in the case of
Bronson v. .Kinzie, as expressing truly "the sentiment of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

court as it was then organized, as it is organized now, and as
the law of the case."
These principles were applied in the case of Seibet v. Iewis,
122 IU.S. 284, where, after citing Bronson v. Kinzie, Von
Hofman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535, and Louisiana v.
-New Orleans, 102 U. S. 203, as declaring the settled doctrine of this court that "the remedy subsisting in a State
when and where a contract is made and is to be performed
is a part of its obligation," the court, through Mr. Justice
Matthews, held: That the legislature of iMissouri having, by
the act of March 23, 1868, to facilitate the construction of
railroads, enacted that the county court should, from time
to time, levy and cause to be collected, in the same manner as
county taxes, a special tax in order to pay the interest and
principal of any bond which might be issued by a municipal
corporation in the State on account of a subscription, authorized by the act, to the stock of a railroad company, which tax
should be levied on all the real estate within the township
making the subscription, in accordance with the valuation then
last made by the county assessor for county purposes, it was
a material . part of this contract that such creditor should
always have the right to a special tax to be levied and
collected in the same manner as county taxes at the same
time might be levied and collected; that the provisions contained in the subsequent enactments of Missouri, respecting the assessment and collection of such taxes, were not
a legal equivalent for the provisions of the act of 1868, and
that the law of 1868, although repealed by the legislature of
Missouri, was still in force for the purpose of levying and collecting the tax necessary for the payment of a judgment recovered against a municipal corporation in the State upon a
debt incurred by subscribing to the stock of a railroad company in accoxdance with its provisions.
The case of the Conn. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Cushman, 108
U. S. 51, does not collide with the previous and subsequent
cases. There the new statute did not lessen the duty of
the mortgagor to pay what he had contracted to pay, nor
affect the time of payment, nor affect any remedy which

BARIITZ v. BEVERLY.
Opinion of the Court.

the mortgagee had by existing law for the enforcement of his
.contract.
Neither is the case of .Morley v. Lake Shore & .Michigan
Southern Railway Co., 146 U. S. 162, in anywise inconsistent
with the cases above cited. The holding there was that the
rate or amount which was prescribed by the statute of a State,
as damages for a failure to pay or satisfy an existing judgment,
was a matter within the control of the State, as a matter of
public policy, and did not arise out of the contract between
the creditor and the debtor.
Without pursuing the subject further, we hold that a statute
which authorizes the redemption of property sold upon foreclosure of a mortgage, where no right of redemption previously existed, or which extends the period of redemption
beyond the time formerly allowed, cannot constitutionally apply to a sale under a mortgage executed before its passage.
Let us briefly apply the conclusion thus reached to the facts
of the present case.
The plaintiff was the holder of several promissory notes,
dated November 1, 1885, secured by a mortgage of the same
date upon a tract of land in Shawnee County, Kansas. The
mortgage contained an express waiver of an appraisement of
the real estate. Default in payment having ensued, the suit
was brought, praying that the mortgaged premises should be
sold according to law, without appraisement, that the proceeds
arising from the sale should be applied to the payment of the
indebtedness due the plaintiff, and that the defendants should
be forever barred and precluded of any right of redemption.
Under the law, as it existed at the time when the mortgage
was made, after a foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged premises the purchaser was given actual possession as soon as the
sale was confirmed and the sheriff's deed issued. Thereafter
the mortgagor or the owner had no possession, title or right
in any way to the premises.
Under the new law the mortgagor shall have eighteen
months from the date of sale within which to redeem, and,
in the meantime, the rents, issues and profits, except what
is necessary to keep up repairs, shall go to the mortgagor or
VOl. CLXIII-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the owner of the legal title, who in the meantime shall be
entitled to the possession of the property. The redemption
payment is to consist, not of the mortgage debt, interest and
costs, but of the amount paid by the purchaser, with interest,
costs and taxes.
In other words, the act carves out for the mortgagor or the
owner of the mortgaged property an estate of several months
more than was obtainable by him under the former law, with
full right of possession, and without paying rent or accounting for profits in the meantime. What is sold under this act
is not the estate pledged, (described in the mortgage as a good
and indefeasible estate of inheritance, free and clear of all
incumbrance,) but a remainder-an estate subject to the possession, for eighteen months, of another person who is under
no obligation to pay rent or to account for profits.
The twenty-third section of the act should not be overlooked, providing that real estate once sold upon order of
sale, special execution or general execution, shall not again
be liable for sale for any balance due upon the judgment or
decree under which the same is sold, or any judgment or lien
inferior thereto, and under which the holder of such lien had
a right to redeem.
Obviously this scheme of foreclosure renders it necessary
for the mortgagee to himself bid, or procure others to bid,
the entire amount of the mortgage debt, and thus, in effect,
release the debtor from his personal obligation.
We, of course, have nothing to do with the fairness or the
policy of such enactments as respects those who choose to
contract in view of them. But it seems impossible to resist
the conviction that such a change in the law is not merely the
substitution of one remedy for another, but is a substantial
impairment of the rights of the mortgagee as expressed in the
contract. Where, in a mortgage, an entire estate is pledged
for the payment of a debt, with right to sell the mortgaged
premises free from redemption, can that be valid legislation
which would seek to substitute a right to sell the premises
subject to an estate or right of possession in the debtor or his
alienees for eighteen months?

BARNITZ v. BEVERLY.
Opinion of the Court.

Martha Barnitz held Kirtland's notes secured by a mortgage. Of course, under the contract thus created, she had
a right to resort to other property of the debtor to make up
for any deficiency remaining after the sale of the real estate
mortgaged. As the law stood at the time the contract was
made, if Kirtland, either by purchase at the sale or by subsequent transactions, became the owner of the real estate, Mrs.
Barnitz had a legal right to again levy thereon and subject
it to the payment of the remnant of her debt. But this law,
as we have seen, in express terms declares that this real estate
shall not again be liable for sale for any balance due upon the
judgment or decree under which the same is sold. This cannot be held to mean merely that the laud is sold free from
existing liens, for such would be the legal effect of the sale
at any rate. It plainly means that the balance of the debt
shall not be made out of the lands, even if and when they
become the property of the debtor. Nor can it be said that
such a question is not now before us. What we are now considering is, whether the change of remedy was detrimental to
such a degree as to amount to an impairment of the plaintiff's
right; and, as this record discloses that the sale left a portion
of the plaintiff's judgment unpaid, it may be fairly argued
that this provision of the act does deprive the plaintiff of a
right inherent in her contract. When we are asked to put
this case within the rule of those cases in which we have held
that it is competent for the States to change the form of the
remedy, or to modify it otherwise, as they may see fit, provided no substantial right secured by the contract is thereby
impaired, we are bound to consider the entire scheme of the
new statute, and to have regard to its probable effect on the
rights of the parties.
It is contended that the right to redeem granted by the
new statute only operates on the purchaser and not on the
mortgagee as such. This very argument was foreseen and
disposed of in Bronson v. Zinzie, where this court said:
"It, the new act, declares that although the mortgaged
premises should be sold under the decree, yet that the equitable estate of the mortgagor shall not be extinguished, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

shall continue for twelve months after the sale; and it moreover gives a new and like estate to the judgment creditors to
continue for fifteen months. If such rights may be added to
the original contract by subsequent legislation, it would be
difficult to say at what point they must stop. An equitable
estate in the premises may, in like manner, be conferred upon
others; and the right to redeem may be so prolonged as to deprive the mortgagee of the benefit of his security by rendering
the property unsalable for anything like its value. This law
gives to the mortgagor and to the judgment creditors (meaning creditors other than the mortgagee) an equitable estate in
the premises, which neither of them would have been entitled
to under the original contract; and these new interests are
directly and materially in conflict with those which the mortgagee acquired when the mortgage was made. Any such
modification of a contract by subsequent legislation, against
the consent of one of the parties, unquestionably impairs its
obligations, and is prohibited by the Constitution."
The judgment of the Supreme Court f Zansas is reversed
and the cause remanded to that court with directions fo7r
furtherproceedings not inconsistent with this pinion.

UNITED STATES v. RIDER.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COIRT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 197. Argued April 1, 1896.-Decided

May 18, 1896.

The scheme of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, precludes the contention that certificates of division of opinion in criminal
cases may still be had under Rev. Stat. §§ 651 and 697.
Review by appeal, by writ of error or otherwise, must be as prescribed by
that act, and review by certificate is limited by it to the certificate by the
Circuit Courts, made after final judgment, of questions made as to their
own jurisdiction; and to the certificate by the Circuit Courts of Appeal

