WEBSTER v. DALY.
Opinion of the Court.

WEBSTER v. DALY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 265. Argued April 80,1896.-Decided May 18,1896.

No appeal lies to this court from a decree of a Circuit Court of the United
States, ordering that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a suit
for a perpetual injunction against infringement of a copyright be made
a decree of the Circuit Court to which it was sent down with a mandate
after hearing on appeal from the Circuit Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. J- Dittenhoefer for appellant.
Mr. Stephen E. Olin for appellee.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Daly filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United States
against George P. Webster and others for the purpose of enjoining and restraining defendants from performing the scene
in the play of "After Dark," known as the "railroad scene,"'
on the ground that it was an imitation of a similar scene in
complainant's play, "Under the Gaslight," which complainant
alleged he had copyrighted August 1, 1867, under the act of
February 3, 1831, 4 Stat. 436; and for an accounting. A motion for a temporary injunction was denied by Judge Wallace,
June 19, 1889. 39 Fed. Rep. 265.
The cause having been heard on pleadings and proofs by
Judge Coxe the former decision was held controlling, and the
bill was dismissed. 47 Fed. Rep. 903.
Thereupon complainant carried the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and the decree
of the Circuit Court was reversed, and the cause remanded
with instructions to enter the usual decree for account and
perpetual injunction. 1 U. S. App. 573.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals having been
sent down to the Circuit Court, that court, Judge Lacombe
presiding, entered a decree, November 5, 1892, in accordance
therewith, for perpetual injunction and costs, and referred the
case to a master to take and state an account of the number
of unauthorized performances. Proceedings were had under
the references and a report filed January 17, 1893, to which
exceptions were taken, and, on April 1, 1893, Judge Lacombe
entered a decree overruling the exceptions, confirming the
decree, and for costs.
The case, was again appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals and the decree affirmed, June 7, 1893, with costs. 11
U. S. App. 791.
The mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals was filed in
the Circuit Court, June 14, 1893, and that court, Judge Lacombe presiding, entered a decree, which, after referring
to the appeal and the mandate, continued thus:
"Now, upon the said mandate and upon all the pleadings
and proceedings herein and on motion of Olin, Rives & Montgomery, solicitors for the complainant"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals be, and the same hereby is, made
a decree of this court, and that the final decree of this court,
entered herein on the first day of April, 1893, be, and the
same hereby is, in all respects affirmed."
July 13, 1893, a petition for the allowance of an appeal was
presented, on behalf of defendants below, to Judge Lacombe,
who had entered the decrees of the Circuit Court of November 5, 1892, April 1, 1893, and June 14, 1893.
This petition, after setting forth the proceedings in the case
from its commencement, concluded:
"Now, therefore, these defendants, George P. Webster and
William A. Brady, feeling aggrieved, do hereby appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States from the order and judgment entered on the 14th day of June, 1893, affirming the
final decree entered on the first day of April, 1893, and from
the order of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals,
entered on the 7th day of June, 1893, affirming the final

WEBSTER v. DALY.
Opinion of the Court.

decree entered April 1, 1893, and directing a mandate to
issue affirming the said final decree of April 1, 1893, and
also from the mandate issued in accordance therewith, and
upon the said appeal defendants intend to bring up for review
the order of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals filed
on the 5th day of November, 1892, directing that the decree
of the United States Circuit Court entered on the 14th day of
November, 1891, be reversed, and directing a mandate to
issue to the United States Circuit Court accordingly, and also
the mandate so issued, and also the decree entered in accordance with the said mandate in the United States Circuit Court
on the 5th day of November, 1892, and respectfully pray that
the final decree entered on the 1st day of April, 1893, and
the interlocutory decree entered on the 5th day of November,
1892, and the bill of complaint, answers, replications, transcript and mandates of the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals and decree entered in accordance therewith, and all
the pleadings, depositions, evidence, exhibits, proofs and proceedings in the said cause, be sent to the Supreme Court of
the United States without delay, duly authenticated; that
their appeal may be allowed, and that the Supreme Court
may proceed to hear the cause anew, and that the decrees of
the Circuit Court entered in accordance with the orders and
mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals may be reversed,
and the decree entered herein on the 14th day of November,
1891, dismissing the bill of complaint, may be affirmed or such
other decree made as to the said Supreme Court shall seem
just."
On the same day Judge Lacombe entered at the foot of the
application: "The foregoing appeal is allowed," approved a
bond, and signed a citation, on appeal. Among the recitals
of the bond was: "And whereas the said defendants, George
P. Webster and William A. Brady, appealed to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals from the said final decree
entered as aforesaid on the first day of April, 1893, which
said Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the said final decree,
and on the th day of June, 1893, entered its order directing
a mandate to issue affirming the said final decree accordingly

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

with costs, and a mandate was issued accordingly to the
United States Circuit Court, and an order of the United
States Circuit Court having been duly made and entered
thereon on the 14th day of June, 1893, making the said judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals the judgment of the United States Circuit Court, and awarding to the
said complainant and respondent the sum of thirty and -2V
($30.25) dollars costs."
The citation was preceded by a recital that it was issued
by "one of the judges of the Circuit Court of the United
,States for the Southern District of New York, and of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit," and
stated: "Whereas George P. Webster and William A. Brady
have appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States
from the decree lately rendered in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York made
in favor of you, the said Augustin Daly, which decree was
affirmed by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, and
the said George P. Webster and William A. Brady have
appealed to the said Supreme Court of the United States from
the order and mandate directing an affirmance of the said
decree and from the decree entered in accordance with the
said order and mandate, and filed the security required by
law."
These papers, together with an assignment of errors, were
filed in the Circuit Court.
Thereafter, and on August 9, 1893, the record was certified
by the clerk of the Circuit Court under the seal thereof "to
contain a true and complete transcript of the record and
proceedings had in said court in the case of Augustin Daly,
complainant and appellee, against George P. Webster and
William A. Brady, defendants and appellants, as the same
remains of record and on file in said office."
This record embraces the pleadings, evidence, master's
report, orders, decrees and proceedings in the Circuit Court
and the two mandates from the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and necessarily does not contain the proceedings in and
judgments of the latter court. It does not appear and is

WEBSTER v. DALY.
Opinion of the Court.

not contended that that court ever entered any order allowing an appeal or that any application and allowance was
ever filed therein.
The record was filed in this court August 13, 1893, and
the cause docketed as an appeal from the Circuit Court.
The result of all this clearly is that the pending appeal
is not an appeal from the Circuit Court of Appeals, and is
an appeal from the Circuit Court.
But under the fifth section of the judiciary act of March
3, 1891, appeals will not lie directly to this court except in
cases falling within one or the other of the classes of cases
therein enumerated, and the case before us is not one of
them.
By the sixth section appeals may be taken from the Circuit Courts of Appeals to this court in all cases in which
the judgments and decrees of that court are not therein
made final, where the matter in controversy exceeds one
thousand dollars besides costs, and copyright cases are such
cases. But this is not an appeal from the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Our appellate jurisdiction is defined by that act
and we cannot maintain jurisdiction to review the judgments
and decrees of the Circuit Courts except as therein prescribed.
-It does not help the matter that the Circuit Courts may, by
the form of their entries, make the'judgments and decrees
of the Circuit Courts of Appeals their judgments and decrees.
We cannot revise the judgments and decrees of the appellate
tribunals except when brought before us by appeal therefrom,
writ of error thereto, or by certiorari.
App'2eal dl, m8Sed.
MR. JusTicE BasF.WR and MR. JusTIc- PEcxHn did not
hear the argument and took no part in the decision of this
case.

