LOWE v. KANSAS.
Statement of the Case.

the position of the plaintiff in that connection is not a frivolous one, or wholly destitute of foundation. Chicago Life Ins.
Co. v. 1Needlm, 113 U. S. 574.
That it requires us to put a construction upon the pleadings
in the foreclosure suit does not militate against this position,
as we have repeatedly held in analogous cases, where a contract is claimed to have been impaired by state legislation,
that we would put our own construction upon such contract,
and then inquire whether it had been impaired. Jefersom
Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436, 443; N'Tew Orleans Water Co. v.
Louisiana Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18, 38 ; Wilmington & Weldon
v. Albrook, 146 U. S. 279, 293 ; -Mobile & Ohio Rail-Railroad
road v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486, 492.
It seems to me this case should have been determined upon
its merits, and I therefor dissent from the opinion of the court.

LOWE v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 174. Submitted March 24, 1896.-Decided May 18, 1896.

A person upon whose oath a criminal Information for a libel is filed, and
who is found by the jury, as part of their verdict acquitting the defendant, to be the prosecuting witness, and to have instituted the
prosecution without probable cause and with malicious motives, and is
thereupon adjudged by the court to pay the costs, and to be committed
until payment thereof, in accordance with the General Statutes of Kansas of 1889, c. 82, § 326, and who does not appear to have been denied
at the trial the opportunity of offering arguments and evidence upon the
motives and the cause of the prosecution, is not deprived of liberty or
property without due process of law, or denied the equal protection of
the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States.

Ax information, in the name and behalf of the State of
Kansas, by J. V. Beekman, the county attorney of Chatauqua
County, against one F. Keifer, for a criminal libel upon Sandy
VOL. CLXI--

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Lowe, was filed September 28, 1889, in the district court of
that county and State, and was afterwards, upon the defendant's motion for a change of venue, transferred to the district
court of Elk county for trial.
Annexed to the information was the affidavit of Lowe, subscribed and sworn to before the clerk of the court, "that the
allegations and averments contained in the foregoing information are true."
The General Statutes of Kansas of 1889 contain the following provisions:
By section 309 of chapter 31, regulating crimes and punishments, "In all indictments or prosecutions for libel, the jury,
after having received the direction of the court, shall have
the right to determine, at their discretion, the law and the
fact."
By section 326 of chapter 82, establishing a code of criminal
procedure, "Whenever it shall appear to the court or jury
trying the case, that the prosecution has been instituted without probable cause and from malicious motives, the name of
the prosecutor shall be ascertained and stated in the finding;
and such prosecutor shall be adjudged to pay the costs, and
may be committed to the county jail until the same are paid,
or secured to be paid."
At the trial of this information, the court, in charging the
jury, after reading these statutes, and giving directions as to
the law of libel, further instructed the jury as follows:
"You will observe that section 326 aforesaid provides that
the jury may in any case find that the prosecution has been
instituted without probable cause and from malicious motives,
and when the jury do so find it is their duty to state the name
of the prosecuting witness in their finding, and in such case
the prosecuting witness may be by the court adjudged to
pay the costs in the case, and he may be by the court committed to the jail until the same are paid or secured to be
paid; and in this case, if you are of the opinion that the
provision of said section ought to be enforced, you are at
liberty to and ought to enforce the same."
"You will observe from section 309, above quoted, that you

LOWE v. KANSAS.
Statement of the Case.

are, in your discretion, the judges of both the law and the
fact of this case; and, this being so, we can only direct you
as best we may to the law of the case."
The jury returned the following verdict: "We, the jury
impanelled and sworn in the above entitled case, do upon our
oaths find the defendant not guilty; and we do further find
that this prosecution was instituted without probable cause
and from malicious motives, and that the name of the prosecuting witness is S. Lowe."
The court, "being satisfied therewith, ordered that the
same stand as and for the verdict of the jury;" and thereupon ordered "that the defendant F. Keifer be discharged
and go hence without day."
Lowe then moved that so much of the verdict as found
"that this prosecution was instituted without probable cause
and from malicious motives" be set aside, and that he have
a new trial in that respect, for the reasons "that the said S.
Lowe, upon the trial already had, has not been heard and
could not be heard, either in person or by counsel, in his own
defence, touching the matter and things above mentioned as
stated and contained in said verdict, being neither plaintiff or
defendant in this prosecution;" and that the verdict was contrary to the law and the evidence; and that the instructions
aforesaid were erroneous; and also moved in arrest of judgment, for the same reasons, and because "he has the right, by
the law of the land, to be so heard in his own defence, and
to a separate trial concerning his liability as prosecuting witness in this action, which separate trial he hereby demands of
this court."
The court overruled both motions; and, upon a further
hearing on the verdict, adjudged that "the prosecuting witness, S. Lowe, in the above entitled action, pay all costs of
said action, taxed at $1053.40," and be committed to the
county jail until he paid the costs or executed a sufficient
bond to pay them within six months.
To all these instructions and rulings, and to the judgment
aforesaid, Lowe excepted, and tendered a bill of exceptions,
which was allowed by the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Appellant.

Lowe appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, which
affirmed the judgment, upon an opinion of the Supreme Court
Commissioners, holding that the constitutionality of section
326 of chapter 82 had been settled by the decision of Zn. re
.Eenhack, 17 Kansas, 618, (in which the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the similar provision of section
18 of chapter 83, concerning proceedings before justices of
the peace for misdemeanors,) and that, according to the decision of the Supreme Court in State v. Zimmerman, 31 Kansas,
85, as the jury were expressly authorized by the statute to
determine both the law and the fact, neither the trial court
nor the appellate court of the State had power to interfere
with the verdict. 46 Kansas, 255.
A motion for a rehearing was overruled by the Supreme
Court of the State in an opinion, which, after citing the decision in Ebenhack's case, proceeded and concluded as follows:
"After a defendant is acquitted, the State is not entitled to a
new trial before a jury as to which party must pay the costs.
The prosecuting witness is so connected with the State in the
trial that, after the acquittal of the defendant, he cannot demand a re-trial upon the evidence before another jury. If
costs are improperly taxed by the court after the acquittal of
the defendant, of course a motion can be made for the re-taxation, and a proper inquiry may be had thereon. In this case,
it appears that the district court approved the verdict of acquittal, and also the finding of the jury against the prosecuting witness; therefore, in this case, the court below pronounced
judgment of acquittal, and for the commitment of the prosecuting witness, in accordance with its own opinion-not
merely the opinion of the jury." 47 Kansas, 769, 770.
Lowe thereupon sued out this writ of error, contending
that he had been deprived of his liberty or property without
due process of law, and had been denied the equal protection
of the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
.Xr. George Chandlerfor appellant.
No appearance for appellee.

LOWE v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTicE,

GRAy, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The code of criminal procedure of the State of Kansas provides that " whenever it shall appear to the court or jury trying the case, that the prosecution has been instituted without
probable cause and from malicious motives, the name of the
prosecutor shall be ascertained and stated in the finding; and
such prosecutor shall be adjudged to pay the costs, and may
be committed to the county jail until the same are paid, or
secured to be paid." Kansas Gen. Stat. of 1889, c. 82, § 326.
The only question presented by the record for the determination of this court is whether this enactment, as applied
by the Supreme Court of Kansas to this case, contravenes the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, by depriving Lowe of his liberty or property without
due process of law, or by denying him the equal protection of
the laws.
Whether the mode of proceeding, prescribed by this statute,
and followed in this case, was due process of law, depends upon
the question whether it was in substantial accord with the law
and usage in England before the Declaration of Independence,
and in this country since it became a nation, in similar cases.
-Murray v. .obo en Co., 18 How. 272, 277; Dent v. We8t
Virginia, 129 U. S.114, 124.
By the common law, at first, while no costs, eo nomine,
were awarded to either party, yet a plaintiff who failed to
recover in a civil action was amercedprofao olamore. Bac.
Ab. Costs, A; Day v. Woodcworth, 13 How. 363, 372. And
from early times the legislature and the courts, in England
and America, in order to put a check on unjust litigation, have
not only, as a general rule, awarded costs to the }iarty prevailing in a civil action, but have, not infrequently, required
actual payment of costs, or security for their payment, from
the plaintiff in a civil action, or even from the prosecutor in a
criminal proceeding..
For instance, plaintiffs have been required, by general statute or by special order, to give security for the costs of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

action, or to pay the costs of a former suit before suing again
for the same cause. Shaw v. Wallace, 2 Dall. 179; Eturat v.
Jones, 4 Dall. 353; Henderson v. Griffik, 5 Pet. 151, 159.
Third persons allowed to intervene, on condition of giving
bond to pay costs, may be compelled to do so by attachment,
without remitting the payee to suit upon the bond. Craig v.
Leitensdorfer, 127 U. S. 764, 771. And in an information to
enforce a charitable trust a relator is required, who may be
compelled, if the information is not maintained, to pay the
costs. Attorney General v. Smart, 1 Ves. Sen. 72, and note;
Attorney General v. Butler, 123 Mass. 304, 309.
English statutes, from long before the American Revolution, authorized costs against informers upon a penal statute,
or against private prosecutors of an indictment or information,
to be awarded by the court, either absolutely, or unless the
judge, before whom the trial was had, certified that there was
probable cause for the prosecution. Stats. 18 Eliz. c. 5 ; 27 Eliz.
c. 10; 4 W. & M. c. 18, § 1; 13 Geo. III, c. 78, § 64; Bac. Ab.
Costs, E; The Zing v. Heydon, 1 W. BL 356; . C. 3 Burrow,
1304:; The ing v. Commerell, 4 If. & S. 203; The Queen v.
Steel, 1 Q. B. D. 482. In like manner, by the act of Congress
of )Vay 8, 1792, c. 36, § 5, "if any informer or plaintiff on a
penal statute, to whose benefit the penalty or any part thereof,
if recovered, is directed by law to accrue, shall discontinue his
suit or prosecution, or shall be nonsuit in the same, or if upon
trial a verdict shall pass for the defendant, the court shall
award to the defendant his costs, unless such informer or
plaintiff be an officer of the United States specially authorized
to commence such prosecution, and the coiirt before whom
the action or information shall be tried, shall at the trial
in open court, certify upon record, that there was reasonable
cause for commencing the same, in which case no costs shall
be adjudged to the defendant." 1 Stat. 277. And that provision has -,een substantially regnacted in section 975 of the
Revised Statutes.
If the statute of Kansas, now in ques3tion, had provided that,
upon the failure of the prosecution, the prosecutor should be
absolutely liable to pay the costs, and should be committed

LOWE v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

until he paid or secured them, there could have been no doubt
of the validity of the statute. Or if the statute had made him
liable for costs unless the court before which the trial took
place certified that there was probable cause for instituting
the prosecution, its validity would have been equally clear.
The liability imposed upon him by the statute is less than in
either of the cases supposed. He is not made absolutely liable
for the costs; nor is a certificate of probable cause required to
protect him from liability. But the burden is thrown upon
the defendant of proving want of probable cause, as well as
malicious motives, on the part of the prosecutor, before the
latter can be charged with the costs.
In the case at bar, there can be no doubt of the prosecutor's
identity, for he signed and made oath to the information, and
was named in the verdict. Being the actor in the litigation,
he had no right to complain of being obliged, if unsuccessful,
to pay the costs upon the conditions previously prescribed by
the legislature. Whether the question of probable cause for
the prosecution, as affecting the question of costs, should be
tried and determined by the court or the jury, and with or
after the main question of the guilt of the defendant, is matter
of convenient practice, not of constitutional right. A prosecution for libel, at least, can hardly be tried without exhibiting
to the court and jury the motives and grounds of action of the
prosecuting witness. It is not to be doubted that, by virtue
of the statute, he had the right, if seasonably claimed, to be
heard, and to introduce evidence, at the trial of the case, upon
the question whether he instituted the prosecution without
probable cause and from malicious motives. The record
transmitted to this court omits all the oral testimony offered
at the trial, and contains nothing having any tendency to show
that at the trial he was denied the opportunity of offering arguments or evidence in support of his good faith and probable
cause, or requested of the court any ruling or instruction upon
that subject. It was after the verdict had been rendered in
accordance with the statute, and after the trial court, "being
satisfied therewith," had approved it, that he appears, for the
first time, to have asserted - as a ground for setting aside that

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

part of the verdict which found "that this prosecution was instituted without probable cause and from malicious motives"
- that he had not and could not have been heard upon that
matter at the trial.
The Supreme Court Commissioners, indeed, expressed an
opinion, based upon the decision in State v. Zimmerman, 31
Kansas, 85, that the finding of the jury could not be reviewed
by the court. 46 Kansas, 255. But the Supreme Court of the
State, in its opinion delivered upon denying a motion for a
rehearing, put the final judgment upon the grounds that the
prosecuting witness was so connected with the State in the
trial of the prosecution, that he was not entitled to a separate
trial by another jury upon the question of his liability for costs;
and that "the court below pronounced judgment of acquittal,
and for the commitment of the prosecuting witness, in accordance with its own opinion-not merely the opinion of the
jury." 47 Kansas, 769, 770. And there is nothing in the
statute, or in either of the opinions delivered below, to countenance the theory that the prosecutor had not the right to be
heard, at the trial before the jury, upon every question which
was to be determined by their verdict. If any evidence,
offered upon one of the issues on trial, is incompetent upon
the other issue, its effect must be restricted accordingly by the
instructions of the court, as in the case of two persons indicted
jointly, pleading separately, and tried together. Spaf v.
United States, 156 U. S.51, 58.
The necessary conclusion is that the proceeding by which
judgment for the costs of the prosecution was rendered against
the present plaintiff in error was due process of law.
As the statute is applicable to all persons under like circumstances, and does not subject the individual to an arbitrary
exercise of power, it has not denied him the equal protection
of the laws. Duncan v. Mi8souri, 152 U. S.377.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JusTiE BRoww dissenting.

Did the statute of Kansas require broadly that the prosecutor in every criminal case should be held liable for costs, I

LOWE v. KANSAS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

should have felt much less hesitation in acceding to the views
of the majority of the court, since the name of the prosecutor
can easily be ascertained, either from the original complaint,
by an inspection of the record, or from the testimony upon
the trial, and I have no doubt that it is within the competency
of the legislature to make him responsible for such costs.
But the difficulty with the statute in question is that it
makes him responsible only upon the contingency that the
prosecution was instituted without probable cause and from
malicious motives, and authorizes the jury to find this fact
from the testimony introduced upon the trial of the principal
case, without giving the prosecutor any opportunity of rebutting such testimony, by proving that the prosecution was
instituted in good faith, and with probable cause to believe
that the defendant was guilty. Such evidence would be obviously incompetent in the principal case, since the very testimony that would tend to show probable cause and acquit him
of malicious motives would also tend to the prejudice of the
defendant, and would be inadmissible against him. For
example, suppose A should make a complaint against B for
larceny, and upon the trial, either by reason of the death, illness or absence of his witnesses, or through the efforts of B
and his friends to spirit them away, he might be unable to
offer any testimony against him, of course B would be acquitted; and A would be adjudged guilty of having instituted
the prosecution maliciously and without probable cause, notwithstanding that he might have been able to show that he
had made the complaint upon the statement of these witnesses
that they had seen B take the property, and had afterwards
seen it in his possession. Such testimony would obviously not
have been admissible upon the trial of B, since it would not
only have been hearsay, but it would have seriously prejudiced
him in the eyes of the jury. At the same time, it would be
obviously necessary to the exoneration of A.
It is a fatal objection to the statute that it undertakes to
settle in one trial the rights of two parties to a criminal cause
whose interests are adverse, and to try two distinct and dis.
connected issues, viz., the guilt of the principal defendant and

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

the innocence of the prosecutor upon testimony applicable to
but one of such issues. It seems to me entirely clear that,
if the prosecutor can be subjected to a judgment for costs and
to imprisonment, without being able to lay before the jury
the testimony which would tend to his acquittal, he is deprived
of his liberty and property without due process of law, within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Notwithstanding that this was a prosecution for libel, in
which it might be expected that the motives of the prosecutor
would appear more clearly than in ordinary prosecutions, the
statute appears to have worked a peculiar hardship upon
the defendant. As stated in the opinion of the court, after
the verdict was rendered, Lowe moved to set the same aside
so far as it bore against him, upon the ground that he had not
been heard, and could not be heard, in his own defence, and
also moved in arrest of judgment upon the same ground, but
the court denied both motions, and upon appeal to the Supreme
Court, that court held, following in that particular State v.
Zimmerman., 31 Kansas, 85, that, under section 326 of the Crim-

inal Code, above cited, the court had no power to set aside a
verdict of acquittal, and that it was equally powerless to set
aside the verdict against the prosecutor, inasmuch as it was a
part of the verdict of acquittal. In delivering the opinion, the
court says : "The force of another universal practice of courts.
everywhere ought to be adverted to, and that is that when a
jury returns a verdict of not guilty in a criminal case the trial
court has no power to set it aside or modify it in any respect.
These findings against the prosecuting witness were a part of
a verdict of a jury in.a criminal case, wherein express power by"
statutory enactment is given a jury to determine both the law
and the facts. The trial court has no power to interfere with
that verdict in any prejudicial respect, and this court is as powerless as the court below." In neither the principal opinion nor
in the opinion upon motion for a rehearing was there any intimation that the prosecutor had been or could be heard in his
own defence, notwithstanding his whole case was rested upon
that ground.
-t results then that, under the construction given by the

LOWE v. KANSAS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

Supreme Court to this statute, the verdict and judgment
against the prosecutor, however unjust it may be, is one
which no court has power to set aside, because it is a part
of the verdict of acquittal of the defendant in the principal
action, and the court cannot s~t aside one part of the verdict
without setting aside the whole. If any further argument
were needed to satisfy one of the great injustice of this statute,
it would seem that this construction supplied it.
The unnecessary hardship of the statute is the more manifest when compared with certain sections of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, having a similar object. Thus,
by section 970, when, in certain prosecutions instituted by a
collector of customs or other officer, judgment is rendered for
the claimant, but it appears to the court that there was reasonable cause for the seizure, the court shall cause the proper
certificate thereof to be entered, and the claimant shall not be
entitled to costs nor the prosecutor be liable to suit. In such
case the certificate is granted or refused by the court upon a
hearing of both parties subsequent to the trial of the main
issue and upon motion of the United States for such certificate. Averill v. Smith, 17 Wall. 82; United Statee v. Abatoir
Place, 106 U. S. 160; United &ate8 v. Freriche, 16 Blatch.
547; The City of .fexico, 25 Fed. Rep. 924.
A similar procedure is contemplated by section 975, making
the informer or plaintiff in a: penal statute liable for costs, unless he be an officer of the United States authorized to commence such prosecution, and the court, at the trial in open
court, certifies upon the record that there was reasonable cause
for commencing the same. So also, by section 989, it is made
the duty of the court to certify that there was probable cause
for certain acts done by the collector or other officer, under
which it has been decided that the certificate may be granted
by another judge than the one before whom the verdict was
rendered, and after an execution has issued, as well as before.
Cox v. Barney, 14 Blatch. 289. In all these cases a separate
finding by the court is evidently contemplated.
Indeed, in section 327 of the Criminal Procedure of Kansas, immediately following the section by authority of which

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

judgment was entered in this case, it is provided that "if a
person charged with a felony shall be discharged by the officer
taking his examination, or if recognized or committed for any
such offence, and no indictment or information be preferred
against him, the cost shall be paid by the prosecuting witness,
unless the court shall find that there was probable cause for
instituting the prosecution, and that the same was not instituted for malicious motives." This section is apparently not
obnoxious to the objection above made, since it contemplates a
hearing by the court upon the question of probable cause and
the motive for the prosecution.
In State v. Ensign, 11 Neb. 529, the Supreme Court of
Nebraska, construing a statute similar to the one in question,
held that the legislature had exceded its power. "The
mere failure," said the court, "to prove the charge made in a
complaint is not conclusive evidence of the want of probable
cause or of malice. A party may be convinced of the existence of a tippling or gambling shop at a certain place, or of
other means by which the morals of the community are corrupted or debased, and yet upon the trial, from the peculiar
or secret nature of the business, may be unable to prove the
charge. Does such a case upon the trial assume the form of a
contest between the accused and the accuser as to which shall
be imprisoned? We think not."
I do not think it constitutional to so frame a criminal law as
to make it incumbent upon the prosecutor to enter a complaint at the peril of being mulcted in costs in case the prosecution was malicious, without giving him an opportunity of
showing that the complaint was in good faith and with probable cause to believe that the defendant was guilty.
For these reasons I am unable to concur in the opinion of
the court.

