OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

shall continue for twelve months after the sale; and it moreover gives a new and like estate to the judgment creditors to
continue for fifteen months. If such rights may be added to
the original contract by subsequent legislation, it would be
difficult to say at what point they must stop. An equitable
estate in the premises may, in like manner, be conferred upon
others; and the right to redeem may be so prolonged as to deprive the mortgagee of the benefit of his security by rendering
the property unsalable for anything like its value. This law
gives to the mortgagor and to the judgment creditors (meaning creditors other than the mortgagee) an equitable estate in
the premises, which neither of them would have been entitled
to under the original contract; and these new interests are
directly and materially in conflict with those which the mortgagee acquired when the mortgage was made. Any such
modification of a contract by subsequent legislation, against
the consent of one of the parties, unquestionably impairs its
obligations, and is prohibited by the Constitution."
The judgment of the Supreme Court f Zansas is reversed
and the cause remanded to that court with directions fo7r
furtherproceedings not inconsistent with this pinion.

UNITED STATES v. RIDER.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COIRT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 197. Argued April 1, 1896.-Decided

May 18, 1896.

The scheme of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, precludes the contention that certificates of division of opinion in criminal
cases may still be had under Rev. Stat. §§ 651 and 697.
Review by appeal, by writ of error or otherwise, must be as prescribed by
that act, and review by certificate is limited by it to the certificate by the
Circuit Courts, made after final judgment, of questions made as to their
own jurisdiction; and to the certificate by the Circuit Courts of Appeal

UNITED STATES v. RIDER.
Statement of the Case.
of questions of law in relation to which the advice of this court is sought
as therein provided; and these certificates are governed by the same general rules as were formerly applied to certificates of division.

Ox the twenty-third day of November, A. D. 1891, the
United States District Attorney for the Southern District of
Ohio filed a criminal information in the Circuit Court of the
United States for that district against Frank M. Rider, John
F. Burgess and Samuel N. Rutledge, charging that on October 15, A. D. 1891, defendants "were then and there the
county commissioners in Muskingum County, in the State of
Ohio, and then and there the persons empowered by the law
of Ohio to construct, alter and keep in repair all necessary
bridges over streams and public canals, on all state and county
roads, and then and there the persons as such county commissioners controlling the bridge across the Muskingum River
between Taylorsville and Duncan's Falls, Muskingum County,
Ohio; and the Secretary of War of the United States, having
good reason to believe that said bridge was then and there an
unreasonable obstruction to the navigation of said Muskingum
River, one of the navigable streams over which the United
States has jurisdiction, on the 19th day of December, 1890,
gave notice in writing to the said defendants, commissioners
as aforesaid, setting forth in substance that the said bridge
was considered an obstruction to navigation by reason of the
fact that it had no draw for the passage of boats desiring to
navigate the Muskingum River by way of the new lock just
above the south end of the new bridge at Taylorsville, Ohio,
and in order to afford said commissioners a reasonable opportunity to be heard and give evidence in regard to said complaint, Tuesday, the 6th of January, 1891, was set and named
as the day when such evidence should be heard before Lieut.
Col. Wm. E. Merrill, Corps of Engineers, at the U. S. Engineer's office in Zanesville, Ohio, and which said day of hearing, at the request of defendants, was extended to the third
day of February, 1891, and afterwards, to wit, on the 25th
day of February, 1891, and after said day of hearing, the
Secretary of War gave notice in writing to said defendants,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

controlling said bridge as aforesaid, that the said bridge was
and is an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of
the said river, one of the navigable waters of the United States,
on account of not being provided with a draw-span below the
new U. S. look o.9, in said river, and requiring the following
change to be made, viz., the construction of a draw-span in
said bridge below the said lock, in accordance with the plan
shown in a map attached to said notice, and served upon said
defendants, and prescribing that said alteration shall be made
and completed within a reasonable time, to wit, on or before
the 30th day of September, 1891, and that the service of said
notice as aforesaid was made on the 3d day of March, 1891,
by delivering, personally, a copy thereof to said commissioners,
at their office in Zanesville, Ohio. And the said Frank M.
Rider, John F. Burgess and Samuel N. Rutledge, county commissioners of Muskingum County, Ohio, as aforesaid, did unlawfully, on, to wit, the fifteenth day of October, 1891, at the
place aforesaid, and after receiving notice to that effect, as
hereinbefore required, from the Secretary of War, and within
the time prescribed by him, wilfully fail and refuse to comply with the said order of the Secretary of War, and to make
the alterations set forth in said notice, contrary to the form
of sections 4 and 5 of an act of Congress approved September 19, 1890, in such case made and provided, and against
the peace and dignity of the United States of America."
The defendants were tried December 11, 1891, and found
guilty as charged in the information, whereupon they moved
for a new trial.
On the trial before the District Judge certain questions on
the constitutionality of the sections of the act of September
19, 1890, 26 Stat. 453, c. 907, % 4 and 5, under which the
information was filed, were reserved for hearing and decision
upon a motion for a new trial before the Circuit and District
Judges. The motion coming on to be heard, those judges
were divided in opinion, and certified, under section 697 of
the Revised Statutes, the points of disagreement to this court,
the questions upon which such division of opinion took place
being as follows:

UNITED STATES v. RIDER.
Opinion of the Court.

"1st. Whether Congress has the power to confer upon the
Secretary of War the authority attempted to be conferred by
said sections 4 and 5 of the act of September 19, 1890, to
determine when a bridge is an unreasonable obstruction to
the free navigation of a river.
"2d. Whether the failure to comply by persons owning
and controlling the said bridge with the order of the Secretary of War can lawfully subject them to a prosecution for a
misdemeanor."
Mr..Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Dickinson for plaintiffs in

error.
.Mr. .M Tinn, (with whom was .Afr. F. H. Southard on
the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR.CHiEF JUSTIoE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The appellate jurisdiction of this court is defined by the
acts of Congress. By section 6 of the act of April 29, 1802,
c. 31, 2 Stat. 156, 159, whenever there was a division of opinion in the Circuit Court upon a question of law, the question
might be certified to this court for decision; provided that
the case might proceed in the Circuit Court if in its opinion
further proceedings could be bad without prejudice to the
merits; and that no imprisonment should be allowed or
punishment inflicted upon which the judges were divided
in opinion.
In United States v. DanieZ8, 6 Wheat. 542, 547, Chief Justice Marshall explained that "previous to the passage of that
act, the Circuit Courts were composed of three judges, and
the judges of the Supreme Court changed their circuits. If
all the judges were present, no division of opinion could take
place. If only one judge of the Supreme Court should attend,
and a division should take place, the cause was continued till
the next term, when a different judge would attend. Should
the same division continue, there would then be the opinion
of two judges against one; and the law provided, that in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

such case that opinion should be the judgment of the court."
Act of iMarch 2, 1793, 1 Stat. c. 22, §§ 2, 333; Davis v. Bt'aden,
10 Pet. 286. But, continued the Chief Justice, the act of 1802
made the judges of the Supreme Court stationary, so that the
same judges constantly attended the same circuit and the court
being always composed of the same two judges, any division
of opinion would remain and the question continue unsettled.
"To remedy this inconvenience, the clause under consideration was introduced."
6 Wheat. 548; Ex parte .Milligan,
4 Wall. 2.
The act of April 10, 1869, c. 22, 16 Stat. 44, provided for
the appointment of a Circuit Judge in each circuit, but this
did not repeal the act of 1802, as the same necessity existed
as before for the power to certify questions. Insurance Comyany v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1.
By the act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, 17 Stat. 196, whenever
in any proceedings or suit in a Circuit Court there occurred
any difference of opinion between the judges, the opinion of
the presiding judge was to prevail for the time being; but
upon the entry of a final judgment, decree or order, and a
certificate of division of opinion as under the act of 1802,
either party might remove the case to this court on writ of
error or appeal, according to the nature of the case. This act
continued in force about two years, when it was supplanted by
§§ 650, 652 and 693 of the Revised Statutes, by which its
provisions were restricted to civil suits and proceedings; and
by §§ 651 and 697 the provisions of § 6 of the act of 1802
were reenacted as to criminal cases. United States v. Sanges,
144 U. S. 310, 321. These sections are printed in the margin.1
ISEC. 650. Whenever, in any civil suit or proceeding In a Circuit Court
held by a Circuit Justice and a Circuit Judge or a District Judge, or by a
Circuit Judge and a District Judge, there occurs any difference of opinion
between the judges as to any matter or thing to be decided, ruled or
ordered by the court, the opinion of the presiding justice or judge shall
prevail, and be considered the opinion of the court for the time being.
SEC. 651. Whenever any question occurs on tie trial or hearing of any
criminal proceeding before a Circuit Court upon which the judges are
divided in opinion, the point upon which they disagree, shall, during the

UNITED STATES v. RIDER.
Opinion of the Court.

In civil cases, prior to March 3, 1891, the appellate jurisdiction was limited by the sum or value of the matter in dispute,
but the jurisdiction on certificate was not dependent thereon,
and, after final judgment or decree, if the amount in controversy reached the jurisdictional amount, the whole case was
open for consideration on error or appeal, while, if it fell
below that, only the questions certified could be examined.
Allen v. St. Louis Bank, 120 'L. S. 20; Dow v. Johnson, 100
U. S. 158. It has always been held that the whole case could
not be certified. Jewell v. Enight, 123 U. S. 426,433.
In short, under the Revised Statutes, as to civil cases, the
danger of the wheels of justice being blocked by difference
same term, upon the request of either party, or of their counsel, be stated
under the direction of the judges, and certified, under the seal of the court,
to the Supreme Court at their next session; but nothing herein contained
shall prevent the cause from proceeding if, in the opinion of the court, further proceedings can be had without prejudice to the merits. Imprisonment shall not be allowed nor punishment Inflicted in any case where the
judges of such court are divided in opinion upon the question touching the
said imprisonment or punishment.
Sc. 652. When a final judgment or decree is entered in any civil suit
or proceeding before any Circuit Court held by a Circuit Justice and a Circuit Judge or a District Judge, or by a Circuit Judge and a District Judge,
in the trial or hearing whereof any question has occurred upon which the
opinions of the judges were opposed, the point upon which they so disagree shall, during the same term, be stated under the direction of the
judges, and certified, and such certificate shall be entered of record.
Szc. 693. Any final judgment or decree, in any civil suit or proceeding
before a Circuit Court which was held, at the time, by a Circuit Justice and
a Circuit Judge or a District Judge, or by the Circuit Judge and a District
Judge, wherein the said judges certify as provided by law, that their opinions were opposed upon any question which occurred on the trial or hearing
of the said suit or proceeding, may be reviewed and affirmed or reversed or
modified by the Supreme Court, on writ of error or appeal, according to
the nature of the case, and subject to the provisions of law applicable
to other writs of error or appeals in regard to bail and supersedeas.
SEc. 697. When any question occurs on the hearing or trial of any
criminal proceeding before a Circuit Court, upon which the judges are
divided in opinion, and the point upon which they disagree is certified to
the Supreme Court according to law, such point shall be finally decided by
the Supreme Court; and its decision and order in the premises shall be
remitted to such Circuit Court, and be there entered of record, and shall
have effect according to the nature of the said judgment and order.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of opinion was entirely obviated, and the provision for a certificate operated to give the benefit of review where the
amount in controversy was less than that prescribed as essential to our jurisdiction, while as to criminal cases a certificate
of division was the only mode in which alleged errors could
be reviewed.
The first act of Congress which authorized a criminal case
to be brought from the Circuit Court of the United States to
this court, except upon a certificate of division of opinion, was
the act of February 6, 1889, c. 113, § 6, 25 Stat. 655, by which
it was enacted that "in all cases of conviction" of a "capital
crime in any court of the United States," the final judgment
"against the respondent" might, on his application, be reexamined, reversed or affirmed by this court on writ of error.
Up to that time this court had no general authority to review
on error or appeal the judgments of the Circuit Courts of the
United States in cases within their criminal jurisdiction.
United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, 319; Cross v. United
States, 145 U. S. 571, 574.
By section four of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, it was provided that "the review, by appeal, by
writ of error or otherwise, from the existing Circuit Courts
shall be had only in the Supreme Court of the United States,
or in the Circuit Courts of Appeals hereby established, according to the provisions of this act regulating the same."
By section five appeals or writs of error might be taken
from the Circuit Court directly to this court in certain enumerated classes of cases, including "cases of conviction of a
capital or otherwise infamous crime." And by section six
the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
were made final" in all cases arising under the criminal laws"
and in certain other classes of cases, unless questions were
certified to this court, or the whole case ordered up by writ
of certiorari, as therein provided. American Construction Co.
v. Jacksonville Railway Co., 148 U. S. 372, 380. Thus appellate jurisdiction was given in all criminal cases by writ of
error either from this court or from the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, and in all civil cases by appeal or error without

UNITED STATES v. RIDER.
Opinion of the Court.

regard to the amount in controversy, except as to appeals
or writs of error to or from the Circuit Courts of Appeals in
cases not made final as specified in § 6.
By section fourteen it was provided that "All acts and parts
of acts relating to appeals or writs of error inconsistent with
the provisions for review by appeals or writs of error in
the preceding sections five and six of this act are hereby
repealed," and the particular question before us is whether
sections 651 and 697 of the Revised Statutes in relation to
certificate of division of opinion in criminal cases, though not
expressly repealed, still remain in force. If so, and such division of opinion can be certified before final judgment, then all
criminal cases, including those in which the judgments and
decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals are made final, (of
which the case at bar is one,) as well as those which may be
brought directly to this court, might, at preliminary stages
of the proceedings, be brought before us on certificate, and,
after judgment, the whole subject be regxamined on writ of
error from one or the other court. This result, in itself, we
think could not have been intended, and it is wholly inconsistent with the object of the act of March 3, 1891, which
was to relieve this court and to distribute between it and the
Circuit Courts of Appeals, substantially, the entire appellate
jurisdiction over the Circuit Courts of the United States.
MoLish v. Rqf, 141 U. S. 661; Lau Ow Bew's case, 144 U. S.
47; Construction Co. v. Railway Co., 148 U. S. 372.
We are of opinion that the scheme of the act of March 3,
1891, precludes the contention that certificates of division of
opinion may still be had under sections 651 and 697 of the
Revised Statutes.
Review by appeal, by writ of error or otherwise, must be as
prescribed by the act, and review by certificate is limited by
the act to the certificate by the Circuit Courts, made after
final judgment, of questi6ns raised as to their own jurisdiction
and to the certificate by the Circuit Courts of Appeals of questions of law in relation to which our advice is sought as
therein provided, and these certificates are governed by the
same general rules as were formerly applied to certificates of

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

division. 3faynard v. Hec/ht, 151 U. S. 324; Columbus Watch
Co. v. Robbins, 148 U. S. 266.
It is true that repeals by implication are not favored, but
we cannot escape the conclusion that, tested by its scope, its
obvious purpose, and its terms, the act of March 3, 1891,
covers the whole subject-matter under consideration, and furnishes the exclusive rule in respect of appellate jurisdiction on
appeal, writ of error or certificate.
Its provisions and those of the :Revised Statutes in this regard cannot stand together, and the argument ab inconvenienti
that, in cases of doubt below, the remedy by certificate ought
to be available, is entitled to no weight in the matter of construction.
The result is that the certflfeate must be dismissed, and it is
so ordered.
MR. JusmTicE BREWER did not hear the argument and took no

part in the decision of this case.

HARRISON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
-No. 294.

Argued and submitted May 6, 1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

A person indicted for robbing a mail-carrier of a registered mail package,
and of putting the carrier in jeopardy of his life in effecting it, is entitled
under Rev. Stat. § 819 to ten peremptory challenges.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Xr. R. B. Kelly for plaintiff in error. Mr. John P. Hiethvin
was on his brief.
-Mr.Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, for defendants
in error, submitted on his brief.

