SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPlANY v. TOMLINSON.

369

Statement of the Case.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. TOMLINSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 251. Argued April 28, 1S96. -Decided

May 25, 1S96.

In an action under Title 36 of the Revised Statutes of the Territory of Arizona to recover for injuries causing death, brought in the name of the
widow of the deceased, for the benefit of herself and of his children and
parents, she has no authority to lessen or alter the shares awarded by the
jury to the other beneficiaries; and if the jury return a verdict for excessive damages, and she files a remittitur of a large part of the whole
verdict, lessening the share awarded to each beneficiary, and reducing
to nominal damages the shares of the parents of the deceased, and the
court thereupon renders judgment according to the verdict, as reduced
by the remittitur, the defendant, upon writ of error, is entitled to have
the judgment reversed and the verdict set aside.

Tins was an action brought in the district court of the second judicial district of the Territory of Arizona in and for the
county of Pima, by Bertha, widow of Thomas Tomlinson,
against the Southern Pacific Company, a railroad corporation,
under Title 36 of the Revised Statutes of Arizona of 1887,
entitled "1Injuries Resulting in Death."
The complaint alleged that, while Thomas Tomlinson was
walking along a public passageway where it crossed the
defendant's railroad, the defendant caused one of its locomotive engines and a train of cars to approach the crossing at
a great and unusual rate of speed, negligently and carelessly
omitting to give any signal of warning by bell, signal or
otherwise, by reason whereof he was unaware of the approach
of the train, and, without any fault or negligence on his part,
the cars ran against him, and knocked him down, and wounded
and lacerated his head and body, so that he immediately died;
and further alleged as follows:
"That the said Thomas Tomlinson left surviving him the
plaintiff, who is his widow, and the following children, to
wit, Alice Tomlinson, Fenton Tomlinson, Howard Tomlinson
and Baby Tomlinson; and the said Thomas Tomlinson left
voL. cLxi-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Fenton Tomlinson, his father, and Mary Tomlinson, his mother,
surviving parents.
"That this action is brought by the said plaintiff, Bertha
Tomlinson, for the benefit of herself and her said children,
Alice, Fenton and Howard and Baby, and Fenton Tomlinson, Sen., and Mary Tomlinson, his parents.
"That by reason of the death of the said Thomas Tomlinson, caused and occasioned as aforesaid, damages have resulted
to the said parents, surviving widow and children of the said
Thomas Tomlinson, to the sum of $50,000.
"Wherefore plaintiff prays judgment, in favor of herself
and the other parties for whose benefit this suit is prosecuted,
for the sum of $50,000, and for costs of suit."
The defendant answered, denying the allegations of the
complaint, and alleging that the accident was caused by the
negligence of Thomas Tomlinson.
At the trial, the evidence, (except that as to negligence on
the part of the defendant, and on the part of the plaintiff,)
was as follows:
Several witnesses testified that Thomas Tomlinson was
knocked down by the defendant's engine, and rendered insensible, his skull broken, and one heel cut off; and that he
died two hours afterwards.
The plaintiff testified that Thomas Tomlinson was her husband, and was forty-one years old and in good health at the
time of his death, and her own age was thirty-three; that there
were living, the issue of the marriage, four children, Alice, aged
nine years; Fenton, aged seven years; Howard, aged five years;
and Baby, seven months; that her husband's father and mother,
Fenton and Mary Tomlinson, were also living; that her husband was a merchant, and that the usual expenses of maintaining their household were perhaps a thousand dollars a year.
The defendant put in evidence Carlisle's Life Tables, according to which the mean duration of human life at the age of
forty years is twenty-seven years and seven months; and at
fifty years is twenty-one years and one month.
The jury returned the following verdict, signed by their
foreman:

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. TOMLINSON.

371

Statement of the Case.

"We, the jury duly empanelled and sworn in the above
entitled action, find for the plaintiff, and assess damages
against the defendant in the sum of $50,000, to be divided
as follows: Bertha Tomlinson, $8000; Fenton Tomlinson
(father), $5000; Mary Tomlinson (mother), $5000; Alice Tomlinson (child), $8000; Fenton Tomlinson (child), $8000; Howard Tomlinson (child), $8000; Baby Tomlinson (child), $8000."
The defendant moved the court to set aside the verdict and
to grant a new trial, because the verdict was against the law
and the evidence, and because the damages assessed by the
jury were excessive, unsupported by the evidence, and given
under the influence of passion and prejudice.
The plaintiff thereupon filed a remittitur in the following
terms:
"Comes now Bertha Tomlinson, on behalf of herself and
others interested herein, and remits from the verdict heretofore rendered herein in the sum of $50,000, the following
kons:
"Bertha Tomlinson ............... $8000, remitted to $6000
" 3000
"
"Alice Tomlinson ................ 8000,
3000
"
"
"Fenton Tomlinson ............... 8000,
3000
"
"
8000,
"Howard Tomlinson ............
"
3000
"
"Baby Tomlinson ................ 8000,
"
1
"
"Fenton Tomlinson, father ........ 5000,
1
"
"
"1Mary Tomlinson, mother ........ 5000,
"thereby making a total remittance of $31,998, and allowing
the verdict to stand at $18,002."
The court allowed the remittitur, denied the motion for a
new trial, and gave judgment for the plaintiff against the
defendant for the sum of $18,002, apportioned as in the
remittitur.
The defendant excepted, among other things, to the overruling of the motion, and appealed to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, which affirmed the judgment, and held that the
plaintiff had a right to file the remittitur; and dealt with
the question of the damages as follows:
"While the record does not affirmatively show that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

trial court made a remission of a portion of the damages
awarded a condition precedent to overruling the motion for
a new trial, the damages awarded being clearly excessive, we
think it quite evident that, had the remittitur not been filed,
the court would have granted the motion. A trial court
has the power, where excessive damages have been allowed
by the jury, and where the motion to set aside the verdict is
based upon this ground, to make a remission a condition precedent to overruling the motion. The exercise of this power
rests in the sound discretion of the trial court. This doctrine
is affirmed in the case of Arkanwas Cattle Co. v. Afann, 130
*U.S. 74; also in Northern Pacio Railroad v. R7erbert, 116
U. S. 642. Of course, if it is apparent to the trial court that
the verdict was the result of passion or prejudice, a remittitur
should not be allowed, but the verdict should be set aside.
In passing upon this question, the court should look not alone
to the amount of the damages awarded, but to the whole case,
to determine the existence of passion or prejudice, and to determine how far such passion or prejudice may have operated
in influencing the finding of any verdict against the defendant.
When the circumstances, as they may appear to the trial court,
indicate that the jury deliberately disregarded the instructions
of the court, or the facts of the case, a remittitur should not
be allowed, but a new trial should be granted. If they do
not so indicate, and the plaintiff voluntarily remits so much
of the damages as may appear to be excessive, the court, in
its discretion, may allow the remission, and enter judgment
accordingly. Arkansas Cattle Co. v. Mann, cited above.
From a review of the whole case, we cannot say that the jury,
in finding for the plaintiff, in this action, in a sum largely in
excess of the damages proven, deliberately disregarded the
facts, or the instructions of the court. We rather incline to
the view that the jury, having found the issues in favor of
plaintiff, was then prompted, through sympathy for the widow
and children, and out of the enlarged liberality of which juries in such cases are usually possessed, to award damages
largely in excess of what the proofs warranted." 33 Pacific
Rep. 710. The defendant sued out this writ of error.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. TOMLINSON.

373

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. J. Hubley Aston for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. R. 0. Garlandfor defendant in error.
MR. JUSTiCE GiAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This action is brought under provisions of a statute of the
Territory of Arizona, copied from a statute of Texas upon the
same subject. Arizona Rev. Stat. of 1887, tit. 36, % 21452155; Texas Rev. Stat. of 1879, §§ 2899-290R.
By this statute, an action, on account of injuries causing
the death of any person, may be brought against a railroad
company, or other carrier of goods or passengers, for actual
damages, when the death is caused by its negligence, or by
the unfitness or gross negligence of its servants or agents;
and for exemplary damages also, when the death is caused by
the wilful act or omission or gross negligence of the defendant. Arizona Rev. Stat. % 2145-2147.
The statute provides that "the action shall be for the sole
and exclusive benefit of the surviving husband, wife, children
and parents of the person whose death shall have been so
caused;" and "may be brought by all the parties entitled
thereto, or by one or more of them for the benefit of all ;"
and that, if they fail to bring it within six months after the
death, "it shall be the duty of the executor or administrator
of the deceased to commence and prosecute the action, unless
requested by all of the parties entitled thereto not to prosecute the same." §§ 2149-2151.
If the sole plaintiff dies pending the action, and is the only
person entitled to the benefit thereof, the action abates. But
if any person so entitled survives, the action does not abate by
the death of the plaintiff, but any one or more of the persons
so entitled may be made plaintiff, "and the suit be prosecuted
to judgment in the name of such plaintiff, for the benefit of
the persons entitled." % 2153, 2154.
The statute further provides that "the jury may give such
damages as they may think proportioned to the injury result-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ing from such death; and the. amount so recovered shall be
divided among the persons entitled to the benefit of the action.
or such of them as shall then be alive, in such shares as the
jury shall find by their verdict." § 2155.
The obvious intent and effect of these provisions is that thE
action is to be brought once for all; that it is to be prosecuted
for the benefit of all the relatives mentioned, the husband oi
the wife, the children and the parents, of the deceased; and
that any damages recovered are to belong to all those relatives,
and to be shared among them in the proportions determined
by the verdict of the jury. By the express terms of the stat.
ute, the action may be brought by all or any of them, but for
the benefit of all; no one or more of them, less than all, can
excuse the executor or administrator from bringing and prosecuting the action, if they do not; the action does not abate by
the death of the one suing, but may be prosecuted by the survivors, if there are any; and the damages recovered are to be
divided among all of them, in such shares as the jury shall fix
by their verdict. The authority given for bringing and prose.
outing the action, in the name of any one or more of the
persons entitled, for the benefit of all, avoids multiplicity of
actions, and difficulties arising from nonjoinder of plaintiffs;
but it gives the nominal plaintiff or plaintiffs no power to
compromise or to release the rights of the other beneficiaries.
or to lessen or alter the shares awarded by the jury.
This construction of the statute is in accord with the con
struction which, before its passage, had been given by the
Supreme Court of Texas to the similar statute of that State.
.Eouston & Texas CentralRailway v. Bradley, 45 Texas, 171,
176, 179; .Afarc. v. Walker, 48 Texas, 372, 376, 377; Houston
& Texas CentralRailway v. Moore,49 Texas, 31, 45, 46; Galveston c. Railroadv. Le Gierse,51 Texas, 189, 201; Houston
d Texas Central Railway v. Cowser, 57 Texas, 293 ; East Line
& Red River Railway v. Culberson, 68 Texas, 664. See also
&3. -Louis &c. Railway v. Feedham, 10 U. S. App. 339.
In the present case, the deceased left a widow, four children.
and a father and mother. The jury returned a verdict for the
plaintiff for $50,000, of which they awarded $8000 to the widow,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. TOMLINSON.

375

Opinion of the Court.

$8000 to each child, and $5000 to either parent of the deceased.
After the defendant had moved for a new trial, the widow, in
whose name alone the action was brought, filed a remittitur, by
which she undertook to reduce her share to $6000, the share
of each child to $3000, and the shares of the parents to one
dollar each, and the whole verdict to $18,002.
According to the decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas,
in llouston, & Texas Central Railway v. Bradley and Galveston &c. Railroadv. Le Gierse,above cited, the widow could not
compromise or release the rights even of her own minor children. She certainly could not release, in whole or in part, the
rights of her father in law and mother in law.
The statute, indeed, as has been seen, creates but a single
liability; the matter in controversy, as between the defendant, on the one side, and the plaintiff and the other persons
for whose benefit the action is brought, on the other, is the
whole amount of the damages found by the jury; and the
defendant has no concern in the apportionment of damages
among the persons entitled, provided that is done as the statute
requires. Texas & Pacflc Railway v. Gentry, ante, 353.
But the defendant has the right to object to a judgment
apportioning the damages, not as lawfully divided by the
jury, but as unlawfully fixed by the plaintiff of record, reducing to nominal damages the sums awarded by the jury to some
of the persons entitled, and thereby leaving the defendant
open to the danger of another suit by those persons to obtain
the damages of which the present plaintiff has undertaken to
deprive them. Northern Pai)io Railroad v. Lewis, 162
U. S. 366, 379.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona, which, as required by section 949 of the Revised
Statutes of the Territory, was in writing and recorded, shows
that that court not only "inclined to the view that the jury
was prompted, through sympathy for the widow and children,
and out of the enlarged liberality of which juries in such cases
are usually possessed, to award damages largely in excess of
what the proofs warranted;"1 but that it considered that the
damages awarded were clearly excessive and that it was

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

manifest from the record that, but for the remittitur, the
judge before whom the trial was had would have ordered a
new trial.
As this court now holds the remittitur to have been
unauthorized and invalid, the proper order, without considering other questions argued at the bar, will be
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Supreme Court
of the Territory,with directions to cause the verdict to be
set aside and a new trial had.

TALTON v. M1AYES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 227.

Argued April 16, 17,1896. -Decided

May 18, 1896.

The crime of murder committed by one Cherokee Indian upon the person of
another within the jurisdiction of the Cherokee nation is not an offence
against the United States, but an offence against the local laws of the
Cherokee nation; and the statutes of the United States which provide
for an Indictment by a grand jury, and the number of persons who shall
constitute such a body, have no application.
The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution does not apply to local legislation
of the Cherokee nation, so as to require all prosecutions for offences
committed against the laws of that nation to be initiated by a grand jury
in accordance with the provisions of that amendment.
The question whether a statute of the Cherokee nation which was not
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States or in conflict with
any treaty or law of the United States had been repealed by another
statute of that nation, and the determination of what was the existing
law of the Cherokee nation as to the constitution of the grand jury, is
solely a matter within the jurisdiction of the courts of that nation, and
the decision of such a question in itself necessarily involves no infraction
of the Constitution of the United States.

ON February 15, 1S93, a petition for habeas corpus was filed
in the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Arkansas, setting forth that the plaintiff therein
(who is the appellant here) was, on the 31st day of December,

