OCTOBER TER,

1895.

Syllabus.

GRAYSON v. LYNCH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 290. Argued May 4, 5,1896.-Decided May 25, 1896.

When the assignments of error are very numerous, it is practically found
necessary to consider but a few of them.
A special finding of facts referred to in acts allowing parties to submit
issues of fact in civil cases to be tried and determined by the court is
not a mere report of the evidence, but a finding of those ultimate facts
upon which the law must determine the rights of the parties.
If the findings of fact in such case be general, only such rulings of the
court In the progress of the trial can be reversed as are presented by &
bill of exceptions, which bill cannot be used to bring up the whole testimony for review.
In cases brought by appeal from the Supreme Courts of the Territories,
this court cannot consider the weight or the sufficiency of the evidence,
but only whether the facts found by the court below support the judgment, and whether there was any error In rulings, duly excepted to,
upon the admission or rejection of evidence.
The statute of the Territory of New Mexico requiring its Supreme Court
to review causes in which a jury has been waived in the same manner
and to the same extent as if it had been tried by a jury makes no essential change in the previous practice, and cannot affect the power of this
court under the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, 18 Stat. 27.
If a court can only review cases tried without a jury as It would review
cases tried by a jury, it can only review them for errors apparent upon
the record, or incorporated in a bill of exceptions.
Where a jury is waived the findings of fact by the court have the same
force and effect as the verdict of a jury, and the appellate court will
not set aside the findings and order a new trial for the admission of incompetent evidence, if there be other competent evidence to support
the conclusion.
No variance between the allegations of a pleading and the proofs offered
to sustain it is material unless it be of a character to mislead the opposite party. This rule Is applied to sundry assignments of error.
In an action to recover for injuries suffered by reason of disease being
communicated to herds of plaintiffs' cattle through negligence of the
defendants in handling and managing their herds of cattle, allegations
concerning the particular spot where the disease was communicated
are not material and may be disregarded -especially if never called to
the attention of the trial court.

GRAYSON v. LYNCIL
Statement of the Case.
Witnesses not experts may testify as to symptoms observed by them in the
progress of the disease.
The plaintiff being in uncontroverted possession of the land on which his
cattle were grazing, it is immaterial in this action whether his possession
was lawful.
The objections to the admissibility of the testimony of the chief of the
veterinary division of the Department of Agriculture, and of others,
as experts have no merit.
'The court was not bound to find, upon the facts, that the plaintiffs were
guilty of contributory negligence: what care it was necessary for the
plaintiffs to take, depended upon circumstances, and was a proper question for the court.
It is to be regretted that the defendants found It necessary to multiply
their assignments to such an extent.

THis was an action originally begun in the District Court
for the Third Judicial District, for the county of Dona Ana,
New Mexico, by the appellees, constituting the firm of Lynch
Bros., against the appellants, who are members of the firm of
Grayson & Co., for loss and damage to a herd of cattle by a
disease known as "Texas cattle fever," claimed to have been
communicated to them by certain cattle owned by defendants,
which had been shipped from infected districts in Texas, and
permitted to roam over plaintiffs' range. There were two
counts in the declaration, alleging the communication of the
disease in two different counties, but in other respects the two
counts were alike.
The declaration alleged in substance that plaintiffs, being in
the peaceable possession of a certain cattle range suitable for
pasturage, watering and raising cattle, had pastured and
grazed on said lands a large number of meat cattle, which
were entirely healthy and free from any contagious or infectious disease, all of which the defendants knew, and that
defendants negligently and wilfully, against the remonstrance
of the plaintiffs, turned in upon said lands and premises, among
plaintiffs' cattle, a large number*of their cattle infected with
a contagious and fatal disease known as Texas cattle fever.
That defendants knew that their cattle were so infected, and
were liable to communicate the disease to plaintiffs' cattle; by
reason whereof and through the carelessness and negligence
of the defendants the disease was communicated to plaintiffs'

OCTOBER TERAI, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

cattle, four hundred of which died and the remainder, namely,
one hundred head, were rendered worthless in consequence of
such disease.
Defendants interposed a general plea of not guilty, and a
jury being waived by an agreement in writing, the case was
tried by the District Court, which, having heard the evidence
and arguments of counsel, found the issue in favor of the plaintiffs, and entered a judgment against the defendants for the
sum of $5200 damages, together with their costs.
Thereupon defendants, after unsuccessfully moving for a
new trial, prayed an appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which made a finding of facts substantially to the effect
that there were in the State of Texas certain districts which
were permanently infected with germs of splenetic fever, Texas
fever
Texas cattle fever, and that Oak and Bee Counties
were aorpart
of such infected districts; that a part of defendants' cattle were shipped by them from Oak and Bee Counties,
and unloaded at Hatch station in the Territory of New Mexico,
and were from there driven on foot, along the public road,
across the range of the plaintiffs to the range of the defendants, adjoining plaintiffs' range, where they were turned loose
to graze with other cattle upon defendants' range; that defendants were notified by plaintiffs, and thus had knowledge
of the probable existence of such disease in said infected districts and said counties at the time they drove their said cattle
from said counties across plaintiffs' range; that defendants'
cattle brought with them the germs of an infectious and communicable disease known as splenetic or Texas fever, and communicated such disease to plaintiffs' cattle, either on the public
road, on plaintiffs' range or on defendants' range, and plaintiffs' cattle became infected with the germs of such disease,
and thereby sickened, and many of them died, and the plaintiffs sustained damage thereby to the amount of $5200; that
before defendants' cattle were driven across plaintiffs' range,
plaintiffs notified defendants that their cattle would be liable
to communicate Texas fever to plaintiffs', and requested them
to abstain from driving their cattle across plaintiffs' range;
that afterwards and notwithstanding plaintiffs' request defend-

GRAYSON v. LYNCH.
Opinion of the Court.

ants drove their said cattle across plaintiffs' range, in the manner heretofore stated, by reason of which said disease became
communicated to plaintiffs' cattle.
Upon this finding, the court ordered a judgment to be entered affirming the judgment of the court below, and allowed
an appeal to this court.
.Mr. T. B. Catron for appellants.
.21-r. Samuel A
appellees.

Arnel and

Xr2.S.

. Newcombe for

MR. JusTicn BRoww delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, which was tried by the court without a jury,
there are fifty-three assignments of error taken to the introduction of much of the testimony and to the finding of the principal facts. As usual, when the assignments are so numerous,
it will be necessary to consider but few of them.
1. Thirteen of these assignments are taken in different
form to the action of the court in holding that, upon a trial by
the court, the admission of improper, incompetent, irrelevant
or immaterial evidence was no cause for reversal; that in
such case, on appeal, the court will give no weight to such
testimony in the determination of such appeal, but will not
reverse the judgment because it was admitted, unless it
appears that the court in making its decision relied upon such
irrelevant evidence; that a finding of facts in a case at law,
tried without a jury, is conclusive, where there is sufficient
evidence to found it upon, even though the evidence be conflicting; in refusing to pass upon questions of law and fact
apparent upon the face of the record, and in refusing to review the cause and pass upon the evidence as upon a hearing
de novo.
The position of the defendants in this connection is that
whatever may be the practice in the Federal courts under the
Revised Statutes, or of the courts in other Territories, the
laws of New Mexico require the Supreme Court, in passing
upon cases tried in the court below without a jury, practically

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to retry the case upon the law and facts, as though it were
an appeal in equity.
In support of this, our attention is called to three statutes
upon the subject of hearings in the Supreme Court, by one of
which, (Compiled Laws, sec. 2060,) "trial by jury may be
waived by the several parties to any issue of fact in the following cases: (1.) By suffering default by failing to appear
at the trial. (2.) By written consent in person or by attorney,
filed with the clerk," and by the second of which (sec. 2190)
"the Supreme Court, in appeals or writs of error, shall examine the record, and on the facts therein contained alone
shall award a new trial, reverse or affirm the judgment of the
District Court, or give such other judgment as shall be agreeable to law." There is clearly nothing in these statutes which
lays down a different rule from that ordinarily pursued in
appellate courts. If the case be tried by jury and reviewed
upon writ of error, the power of the appellate court is limited
to affirming the judgment or reversing it for errors apparent
upon the record, and remanding it for a new trial, as specified
in this section. If it be an appeal in equity, the court retries
the case upon the evidence in the court below, and gives such
judgment as may be agreeable to law. No mention is made
in this section of common law cases tried without a jury,
and we perceive no necessity for our supplying omission. So
far as this class of cases is concerned, they are left to be determined by the legal principles applicable to them in other
jurisdictions, and as regards the Federal practice, this court
has held in a series of cases that the special findings of facts
referred to in the acts allowing parties to submit issues of fact
in civil cases to be tried and determined by the court, is not a
mere report of the evidence, but a finding of those ultimate
facts upon which the law must determine the rights of the
parties; and, if the findings of fact be general, only such
rulings of the court in the progress of the trial can be reversed as are presented by a bill of exceptions, and that in
such cases a bill of exceptions cannot be used to bring up the
whole testimony for review any more than in a trial by jury.
.Yorri v. Jackaln, 9 Wall. 125 ; Kearney v. 0e4.3, 12 Wall.

GRAYSOIN v. LYNCH.
Opinion of the Court.

275; .Millerv. Life Insurance Co., 12 Wall. 285; Insurance
Co. v. Foleom, 18 Wall. 237; Insurance Co. v. Sea, 21 Wall.
158; Jennisons v. Leonard, 21 Wall. 302; Tyng v. Grinnell,
92 U. S. 467; Insurance Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S. 117; The
Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440.
So, too, in cases brought here by appeal from the Supreme
Courts of the Territories, we have several times held that we
cannot consider the weight or the sufficiency of the evidence,
but only whether the facts found by the court below support
the judgment, and whether there was any error in rulings,
duly excepted to, upon the admission or rejection of evidence.
Idaho & Oregon Land Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509; San
Pedro &c. Co. v. United States, 146 U. S. 120; Smith v. Gale,
144 U. S. 509; .Mammoth .Mining Co. v. Salt Lake .Machine
,co., 151 U. S. 447.
By the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, 18 Stat. 27, the appellate
jurisdiction of this court, "over the judgments and decrees of
the territorial courts in cases of trial by jury, shall be exercised by writ of error, and in all other cases by appeal," with
a proviso "that on appeal, instead of the evidence at large, a
statement of the facts in the case in the nature of a special
verdict, and also the rulings of the court on the admission or
rejection of evidence, when excepted to, shall be made and
certified by the court below, and transmitted to the Supreme
Court, together with a transcript of the proceedings and judgment or decree." It was said in the Idaho & Oregon Land
Co. v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 509, 513, that the necessary effect
of this enactment was that no judgment or decree of the
highest court of a Territory could be reviewed by this court
in matter of fact, but only in matter of law, or, as was said
by Chief Justice Waite in Becht v. Boughton, 105 U. S. 235,
236: "1We are not to consider the testimony in any case.
Upon a writ of error we are confined to the bill of exceptions,
or questions of law otherwise presented by the record; and
upon an appeal, to the statement of facts and rulings certified
by the court below. The facts set forth in the statement,
which must come up with the appeal, are conclusive on us.
Under these circumstances, th6 form of proceeding to get a

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

review is not of so much importance as certainty about what
is to be done."
Indeed, no great stress was laid by the plaintiffs in error
upon the above section of the Compiled Laws, their principal
reliance being upon sec. 4, chap. 1, Laws of 1889, which reads
as follows:
"Suc. 4. In all cases now pending in the Supreme Court,
or which may hereafter be pending in the Supreme Court, and
which may have been tried by the equity side of the court, or
which may have been tried by a jury on the common law side
of the court, or in which a jury may have been waived, and
the cause tried by the court or the judge thereof, it shall be
the duty of the Supreme Court to look into all the rulings
and decisions of the court which may be apparent upon the
records, or which may be incorporated in a bill of exceptions,
and pass upon all of them,. and upon the errors, if any shall
be found therein, in the rulings and decisions of the court
below, grant a new trial, or render such other judgment as
may be right and just, and in accordance with law; and said
Supreme Court shall not decline to pass upon any question of
law or fact which may appear in the record, either upon the
face of the record or in the bill of exceptions, because the
cause was tried by the court or by the judge thereof without
a jury, but shall review said cause in the same manner and tothe same extent as if it had been tried by a jury."
By this statute it is made the duty of the Supreme Court of
the Territory to look into and pass upon all the rulings and
decisions of the court below, which may be apparent upon the
record, or which may be incorporated into a bill of exceptions, and, if any error be found, grant a new trial or render
such other judgment as may be right and just and in accordance with law. And the Supreme Court must not decline so
to do because the case was tried by the court without a jury,
but must review said cause in the same manner and to tiw
same extent as if it had been tried by a jury.
It is difficult to perceive wherein this statute makes any
essential change in the previous practice, or even if it did,
how it could affect the power of this court under the statute

GRAYSON

v.. LYNCH.

Opinion of the Court.

of 1874, above cited. It certainly does not, in terms, require
that the court shall rehear the case upon the testimony, as if
it were an appeal in equity, but limits its powers of review to
such questions as are apparent upon the record, or incorporated in a bill of exceptions. And in cases where the cause is
tried by the court without a jury it can only review it in the
same manner, and to the extent, as if it had been tried by a
jury. Now the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution expressly provides that no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the United States than
according to the rules of the common law, and in Parsonsv.
Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, 448, it was said that "the only modes
known to the common law to regxamine such facts are the
granting of a new trial by the court where the issue was tried,
or to which the record was properly returnable, or the award
of a veniefacias de novo by an appellate court, for some error
of law which intervened in the proceedings." See, also, Lincoln v. Power, 151 U. S. 436, 438; Railroad Compyany v.
F-.alof,100 U. S. 24, 31.
The seventeenth section of the act creating New Mexico a
Territory, act of September 9, 1850, c. 49, 9 Stat. 446, 452,
provides "that the Constitution, and all laws of the United
States, which are not locally inapplicable, shall have the same
force and effect within the said Territory of New Mexico as
elsewhere within the United States." It would seem, then, to
be entirely clear that, if a court can only review cases tried
without a jury, as it would review cases tried by a jury, it can
only review them for errors apparent upon the record, or incorporated in a bill of exceptions. If the statute had said
that the Supreme Court should review the cause in the same
manner and to the same extent as if it were a suit in equity,
there would be room to contend that the case should be
retried upon the testimony, although even in such case the
power of this court would be limited by the act of 1874. But
if this power be limited to a review in the same manner and
to the same extent as if the case had been tried by jury, its
powers are only such as could be exercised upon a writ of
error.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

We think there is nothing in this statute to take this case
out of the general rule, so frequently announced, that in cases
where a jury is waived, the findings of fact by the court have
the same force and effect as the verdict, of a jury, and that the
appellate court will not set aside the findings and order a new
trial, for the admission of incompetent evidence, if there be
other competent evidence to support the conclusion. The
evident purpose of Compiled Laws, sec. 2060, was to give to
litigants the option of having their causes tried by a jury or
by the court, and we think there is nothing in these statutes
to indicate that the findings of the court were not intended to
have the same force and effect as a special verdict of a jury,
and that, where there is any testimony to support such findings, the power of the appellate court is limited to determine
whether the facts so found are sufficient to support the judgment.
2. Ten assignments are addressed to questions of variance
between the declaration and the facts, as specifically found by
.thecourt.
(a) The first of these questions relates to the allegation in
the declaration that the disease of which the plaintiffs' cattle
died, and which was communicated by the defendants' cattle,
was known as "Texas cattle fever," whereas the finding of
the court was that plaintiffs' cattle died of "Texas fever."
In other portions of the finding, however, the disease is spoken
of as commonly called splenetic fever, Southern cattle fever,
Texas fever or Texas cattle fever, and it would appear that it
was known by all these names, although the witnesses spoke of
it generally as Texas fever. Assuming that to be its proper
designation, defendants could not possibly have been misled,
since the introduction of the word "cattle" was evidently
intended to indicate merely that it was a fever originating.
in Texas, and prevailing among cattle. While cases may
doubtless be found to the effect that descriptive allegations of
this kind must be proved with great strictness, the tendency
of modern authorities is to hold that "no variance between
the allegations of a pleading and the proofs offered to sustain
it, shall be deemed material, unless it be of a character to

GRAYSON v. LYNCH.
Opinion of the Court.

mislead the opposite party in maintaining his action or defence
Ya48 v. Towne, 5 Wall. 689, 698; Robbin8 v.
on the merits."
Chicago City, 4 Wall. 657; Catlin v. Gunter, 11 N. Y. 368.

(b) A variance is also claimed between the allegation that
the disease was a "contagious" one, and the finding of the
court that Texas fever is not communicated by contact, but is
an "infectious" disease. There is doubtless a technical distinction between the two in the fact that a contagious disease
is communicable by contact, or by bodily exhalation, while an
infectious disease presupposes a cause acting by hidden influences, like the miasma of prison ships or marshes, etc., or
through the pollution of water or the atmosphere, or from the
various ejections from animals. The word "contagious," however, is often used in a similar sense of pestilential or poisonous, and is not strictly confined to influences emanating
directly from the body. As applied to Texas fever the difference would be that if the word were strictly construed, it
would follow that the disease must be communicated directly
from one animal to another, while if it were infectious it
would be communicated by cattle carrying the germs of the
disease from the infected district, and depositing the same
upon the range and waters occupied by other cattle susceptible
to the infection, so that they would become infected therefrom. This was the finding of the court with respect to the
disease in question. The difference is quite immaterial in this
case, however, as the allegation of the second count is that
plaintiffs' cattle were healthy, and were" especially free from a
certain contagious, noxious, dangerous, infectious and fatal disease commonly known as the Texas cattle fever;" that with
knowledge of this fact defendants turned upon plaintiffs' land
and premises their own cattle, which were "infected with a
noxious, dangerous and fatal disease, commonly known as the
Texas cattle fever." And elsewhere defendants' cattle are
spoken of as infected with "the said contagious disease," which
they communicated to plaintiffs' cattle. It is evident that the
words "infectious" and "contagious" were not used in any
technical sense, or with any intention of averring that plaintiffs' cattle became ill from a contagious, as distinguished from

OCTOBER TER,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

an infectious, disease; and that, reasonably construed, it was
only intended to aver that defendants' cattle were afflicted
with the Texas cattle fever, and that by the negligence of the
defendants they communicated it to the plaintiffs' cattle. The
general words "contagious," "noxious," " dangerous," "infectious" and "fatal" are evidently intended to be limited by the
specific words "Texas cattle fever," and not to raise a medical
question whether Texas cattle fever is, strictly speaking, contagious or infectious.
(c) There is also an allegation in the second count that the
plaintiffs kept and grazed their cattle on certain lands of
which they were possessed in the county of Sierra; that while
so grazing upon said lands, defendants drove and pastured
their cattle upon these lands, and there communicated to them
the disease in question; while the finding of the court in that
connection was, that it could not be determined "whether
Lynch Bros.' cattle contracted the disease on the road, or on
their own range, or on Grayson's range, owing to the indiscriminate mixing of them with Grayson & Co.'s cattle on both
ranges." It certainly would not be claimed that the fact that
plaintiffs could not prove whether the disease was communicated to their cattle while upon their own lands or elsewhere
would prevent their recovery, if the disease were communicated either in one place or the other. In such case, if the
description be wholly immaterial, it may be averred to have
happened either in one place or the other, and the fact that it
was impossible to tell exactly where the tort took place would
not constitute a variance. It is said by Chitty (Pleading, 410)
that "where the place of doing an act is precisely alleged, if
the description be wholly immaterial, the ground of charge or
of complaint not being local, the description may perhaps be
rejected as surplusage; as if in trespass for taking goods, the
declaration were to allege that they were taken ' in a house'
it would seem to be sufficient to prove that they were taken
elsewhere, unless indeed a local trespass as to the house be laid
in the same count." In U~nited Stat v. le Baron, 4 Wall.
642, 648, it is said that allegations of time, quantity, value,
etc., need not to be proved with precision, but that a large

GRAYSON v. LYNCH.
Opinion of the Court.

departure from the same is allowable. The same rule also
applies to allegations of place. See also Po.pe v. Allis, 115
U. S. 363, where proof of the delivery of iron at a different
place from that alleged in the complaint was held to have been
properly admitted, defendants having failed to prove that they
were misled by the variance between the averment and the
proof. Peck v. Waters, 104 Mass. 345, 351.
Besides this, however, none of the alleged variances appear
to have been called to the attention of the District Court at
any time during the trial, or in any of defendants' numerous
objections to the introduction of testimony, or otherwise, nor
are they noticed in any one of the fifty assignments of error
filed in the Supreme Court of the Territory. If it were not
too late to raise any of these questions at this time, the fact
that they were never raised before would be a complete
answer to any claim that defendants could have been misled
by such variances. Liverpool &c. Ins. Co. v. Gunther, 116
U. S. 113 ; Bell v. Hnowle8, 45 California, 193 ; Gijert v. W8t,
33 Wisconsin, 617.
3. Objections were taken to the testimony of three witnesses,
Speed, Halleck and Hlargrave, upon the ground that, not being
experts, they were permitted to say that the disease with
which plaintiffs' cattle became affected was ordinarily called
Texas fever. These witnesses, however, were not called as
experts, nor did they purport to testify in that capacity.
They testified fully as to the symptoms of the disease with
which plaintiffs' cattle were afflicted, the resemblance of these
symptoms to such as they had previously observed in other
cattle, stating that the disease was generally called Texas
fever. These were evidently matters of common observation.
These witnesses did not claim to testify of their own knowledge as to the name of the disease, but merely as to the
symptoms they observed, and that cattle so afflicted were ordinarily spoken of as having Texas fever.
4. The objection to the admission of a certain document,
tending to show title to some of the lands in the plaintiffs, is
obviously untenable, inasmuch as there was no finding of title
in them, and the document appears to have been admitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

simply for the purpose of showing that plaintiffs were not
mere trespassers upon the property. The fact that they were
in possession was not controverted, and their rights as against
the defendants did not even depend upon the lawfulness of
such possession. The manner in which they took possession,
or the validity of their title, was wholly immaterial.
5. Fourteen assignments of error are addressed to the admission of the depositions of Salmon and Detmers, who testified as experts to the nature and symptoms of the disease, and
to the fact that there were certain districts infected with the
fever. Salmon resided in Washington, was a professor of
veterinary medicine, chief of the United States Bureau of Animal Industry, and at the time in the service of the United
States government. He had held this position for more than
ten years; had been chief of the veterinary division of the
Department of Agriculture; had been in the employ of the
Department of Agriculture, investigating the diseases of animals, for over fifteen years, and was called to Washington
about 1883 in the discharge of his duties. He had investigated the disease known as the Texas fever. Detmers resided
in Illinois, was a veterinary surgeon, and had been in the
employ of the Department of Agriculture for the purpose of
investigating contagious, infectious and epizootic diseases of
horses, cattle and swine, and had investigated the disease
known as Texas fever, and was acquainted with its symptoms
and diagnosis; had made a good many_2 08t rnOM examinations of cattle that had died with it, and was familiar with
the disease. If these gentlemen, who were connected with the
Department of Agriculture and made a specialty of investigating animal diseases, were not competent to speak upon the
subject as experts, it would probably be impossible to obtain
the testimony of witnesses who were.. The fact that they
spoke of certain districts of Texas as being infected with that
disease was perfectly competent, though they may never have
visited those districts in person. In the nature of their business, in the correspondence of the department and in the
investigation of such diseases, they would naturally become
much better acquainted with the districts where such diseases

GRAYSON v. LYNCH.
Opinion of the Court.

originated or were prevalent, than if they had been merely
local physicians and testified as to what came within their personal observation. The knowledge thus gained cannot properly be spoken of as hearsay, since it was a part of their official
duty to obtain such knowledge, and learn where such diseases
originated or were prevalent, and how they became disseminated throughout the country. Spring Co. v. Edgar,99 U. S.
645; State v. Wood, 53 N. H. 484; Dole v. John8an, 50 N. H.
452; .Enrsonv. Lowell Gas Light Co., 6 Allen, 148. While
it is possible that some questions may have been asked of these
witnesses which were irrelevant, immaterial and incompetent,
the reception of such evidence, as already observed, does not
vitiate the findings of the court, or entitle the party to a new
trial.
The objections to the testimony of these witnesses are so
numerous we have not deemed it necessary to examine them
in detail. We are satisfied that there was nothing that went
to their competency as experts.
As one of these witnesses testified that Oak and Bee Counties in Texas were known to be permanently infected with
the fever, and as the court found that these counties were a
part of the infected district; and also found that the cattle
in question were shipped from those counties into the Territory of New Mexico, and that the defendants were notified
by the plaintiffs of the existence of such disease in these
counties at the time they drove their cattle across plaintiffs'
range; and as there was evidence tending to show notice to
the defendants of the disease in their own cattle, and of the
liability to communicate the same to plaintiffs' cattle, and that
they were requested to abstain from driving them over plaintiffs' range, we see no reason for attacking the findings of the
court in this connection, and none that would authorize us to
infer that defendants did not have the requisite notice to
render them chargeable.
6. Error is also assigned upon the ground that it appears
from the special finding of fact that plaintiffs were guilty of
contributory negligence in allowing their cattle to range,
graze and water on defendants' range with their cattle, and
VOL. CL.x-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

made no effort to prevent them from doing so, or to aid in
keeping defendants' cattle off their range. In this connection
.the court found that the cattle of defendants, Grayson & Co.,
were driven from the railway station along the public road,
through the range where the plaintiffs' cattle grazed, by
eighteen men. "They were driven straight on the road,
and were strung out and men placed on each side of them,
to keep them in the road, and one or two ahead to keep the
herd on the road and drive away any other cattle that might
be in the way, and keep them back from the herd. They
were generally kept within twenty yards of the road on
either side, and often in less space. They were kept as close
together as possible. They did not get outside of that space.
Only a few other cattle were seen along the road while driving, and such were driven away. No cattle not belonging to
the herd got into it, or mixed up with it, while crossing plaintiffs', Lynch Bros.', range. They were driven without stopping
from the time they got within sight of where Lynch Bros.
claimed their cattle range, to the Percha :River, inside of the
defendants', Graysons', range, where about four hundred were
stopped and others taken on to other parts of the range of
defendants. Grayson & Co.'s range extended south of the
Peroha River one half or three fourths of a mile."
"Plaintiffs were informed by the man who was in charge
of defendants' cattle when they came up that they came from
San Antonio, Texas. lNeither plaintiffs' nor defendants' range
was fenced, but the cattle ranged at will, except that defendants, Grayson & Company, placed men at the Percha River,
near the dividing line between the two ranges, and tried to
keep the cattle back on each range and requested plaintiffs,
Lynch Brothers, to do the same, and put a number of men
there to help them; but Lynch Brothers declined to do so,
saying they were there first; so it was impossible to keep
the cattle of the two ranges from going from the one to the
other. Lynch Brothers' cattle in large numbers went up
onto Grayson & Company's range, and Graysons' cattle in
large numbers went down onto Lynch Brothers' range.
Grayson & Company at times rounded up their cattle and

GRAYSON v. LYNCH.
Opinion of the Court.

drove them off of Lynchs' range, but Lynch Brothers did
not drive their cattle back off Graysons', nor do anything
to prevent their going there. When the cattle passed from
one range to the other they mixed with the cattle on the
range to which they went, and grazed on the same pasture
and drank of the same water. Defendants from time to time
drove their cattle back from plaintiffs' range to their own, the
last time just prior to September 8, 1884. Lynch Brothers
made no effort to prevent their cattle from going on Grayson
& Company's range or from watering at the same holes and
grazing and feeding on the same pastures and ranging with
Grayson & Company's cattle which came from Texas in 1884,
but allowed them to do so in large numbers.
"Lynch Brothers made no effort to keep Grayson & Company's cattle off their range and from grazing and feeding on
the same grasses and ranging with their cattle and watering
at the same watering holes with them, but when Lynch
Brothers' cattle went onto Grayson & Company's range they
would drift back to Lynch Brothers' range, carrying with them
large numbers of Grayson & Company's new cattle, which had
not become so thoroughly located as to keep them on their
own range."
While the court, from this testimony, might have found that
the plaintiffs did not use all the precautions that were possible
to prevent the infection of their own cattle, it was not bound
to find that they were guilty of contributory negligence in
this connection. It did not seem to be the custom in that
part of the country to fence the ranges, and the plaintiffs
were not bound to put themselves to the sole expense of preventing their cattle from being intermingled with those of the
defendants, in order to escape the possibility of infection;
since in doing this they might be put to a very large expense
without the possibility of recovering the same from the defendants, unless they could prove that defendants' cattle were
in fact diseased, and that the precautions taken by them had
in fact saved their own from infection. Upon the contrary,
the defendants having been apprised of the fact that their
cattle were or might be infected were bound to prevent such

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

infection being communicated to the plaintiffs' cattle.

By

the sixth section of the act of Congress of May 29, 1884, c. 60,
for the establishment of a Bureau of Animal Industry, 23 Stat.
31, it is provided that no railroad company shall receive for
transportation, or transport, from one State or Territory to
another, any live stock affected by any contagious, infectious
or communicable disease. "Nor shall any person, company
or corporation deliver for such transportation to any railway
company . . . any live stock, knowing them to be affected with any contagious, infectious or communicable disease; nor shall any person, company or corporation drive on
foot or transport in private conveyance from one State or
Territory to another . . . any live stock, knowing them
to be affected with any contagious, infectious or communicable
disease," etc. If defendants had knowledge of the fact that
their cattle were infected with Texas fever, they were guilty
of a violation of the statute in delivering them to the railway
company for transportation to New Mexico, and the duty devolved upon them of using all necessary care to prevent their
communicating the disease to healthy cattle. What care it
was necessary for the plaintiffs to take in that connection depended upon circumstances, and was a proper question for the
court.
In one view of the case it might be said that the plaintiffs,
having knowledge that defendants' cattle were or might be
diseased, were guilty of contributory negligence if they did
not use every possible precaution to prevent the spread of
the disease to their own cattle. This, however, might be an
unjust rule applicable to a particular case, since it would shift
upon the plaintiffs the entire duty and expense of avoiding
the contagion when the defendants were the sole cause of the
disease being introduced into that neighborhood. It was for
the court to judge from the testimony what precautions the
plaintiffs, in the reasonable and proper care of their own cattle,
were bound to take, and it is evident, from the ultimate finding
of the liability on the part of the defendants, that the court
must have found that, under the circumstances of the case, the
plaintiffs were not guilty of contributory negligence. There

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COPANY v. JAMES.

485

Syllabus.

are in reality two entirely separate findings of facts in the
case, the first one of which is much more specific than the
other, but contains evidence of facts as well as the facts themselves, but is less complete than the "statement of further
findings of facts and conclusions of law," which is practically
a finding of the ultimate facts of the case, and of the conclusion that, from the facts so found, the plaintiffs are entitled to
judgment. There is no finding of contributory negligence on
the part of the plaintiffs, nor do we think that the facts as
found compel the conclusion that the plaintiffs were guilty of
such negligence.
Other errors are assigned which it is unnecessary to notice
in detail. Most of them are covered by those already discussed, and some of them are so obviously frivolous as to require no discussion.
It is to be regretted that defendants found it necessary to
multiply their assignments to such an extent, as there is always a possibility that, in the very abundance of alleged
errors, a substantial one may be lost sight of. This is a comment which courts have frequent occasion to make, and one
which is too frequently disregarded by the profession.
There is no error in this case of which the defendants are
entitled to complain, and the judgment of the court below is
Afimd.
accordingly
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. JAMES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 270. Argued May 4, 1896. -Decided

May 25, 1896.

The plaintiff, an employ6 of the railway company, sued to recover for
injuries caused to him by the unblocking of a frog, in consequence of
which he was thrown down, and an engine passed over him before he

