OCTOBER TER-,

1895.

Syllabus.

charge the jury that the embezzlement must be proved to have
taken place without the consent of the defendant's principal or
employer. It was claimed that as the indictment failed to
charge that the defendant embezzled any money without the
consent of his principal or employer, and as the postmaster,
J. E. Foust, employed the defendant, the defendant's responsibility was to the postmaster, and not to the government.
We see no merit in this assignment.
We have examined the remaining assignments and have
found nothing therein set up of which the defendant has just
reason to complain, and the judgment of the court below is
accordingly
Affire.

EDDY v. LAFAYETTE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 180. Submitted March 9, 189.- Decided May 25, 1896.
It appears by the affidavit of the agent of the plaintiffs in error that he was
their agent when service of process was made upon him, and that their
allegation that he was not then their agent was therefore untrue.
The second section of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, was intended to place
receivers of railroads on the same plane with railroad companies, both
as respects their liability to be sued for acts done while operating a railroad, and as respects the mode of service; and the service in the present
case on an agent of the receivers was sufficient to bring them into court
in a suit arising within the Indian Territory.
The terms of the summons were in accordance with the provisions of ยง 4868,
Mansfield's Digest of Statutes of Arkansas, under which the summons
was issued.
This action was brought by the defendants in error to recover the value of
a large quantity of hay which it was alleged had been destroyed by a fire
caused by sparks escaping from a locomotive through negligence, and
falling on a quantity of dry.grass and leaves that had been negligently
allowed to accumulate on the railroad operated by the plaintiffs in error
as receivers. The hay was cut from lands of the Creek nation under
direction of Sallie M. Halley, an Indian, one of the defendants in error,
by Lafayette, a white man who was to receive an agreed part of the hay
for cutting and curing it. Held
(1) That, in the absence of proof to the contrary It must be assumed

EDDY v. LAFAYETTE.
Statement of the Case.
that Mrs. Halley was entitled to cut hay upon the land which she
occupied in common with other members of the Creek nation;
(2) That Lafayette, under his agreement with Mrs. Halley and his performance of it, acquired an interest in the hay;
(3) That an instruction to the jury "that evidence of a railroad company
allowing combustible materials to accumulate upon its track and
right of way which is liable to take fire from sparks escaping from
passing engines and communicate it to adjacent property, is sufficient to warrant the jury in imputing negligence to the company"
was correct;
(4) That there was no error in the treatment given by the Circuit Court
of Appeals to the several assignments respecting the trial court's
instructions on the subject of the respective duties of the railroad
company and of the plaintiffs.
The rule in cases of tort is to leave the question of interest as damages to
the discretion of the jury; but as It is evident from the record that
the jury did not allow Interest, but based their verdict entirely upon the
number of tons of hay destroyed at the market value per ton, this court
acquiesces In the disposition made by the Circuit Court of Appeals of
the question made in respect of the instruction of the trial court on the
subject of interest.

TnE complaint in this case was filed in the United States
Court for the Indian Territory on March 17, 1890, and on
the same day the clerk of that court issued the following
summons:

"United States of America,
Indian Territory.
"The President of the United States of America to the marshal of the Indian Territory:
"You are commanded to summon George A. Eddy and
H. 0. Cross, receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway, a corporation, to answer, on the first day of the next
April term of the United States Court for the Indian Territory, being the 7th day of April, A.D. 1890, a complaint filed
against them in said court by Sallie M. Hailey and Ben. F.
Lafayette, and warn them that upon their failure to answer
the complaint will be taken for confessed; and you will make
due return of the summons on the first day of the next April
term of said court.

"Witness the honorable James M. Shackelford, judge ot

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

said court, and the seal thereof, at Muscogee, Indian Territory,
this 17th day of March, A.D. 1890.
"Wm.

INELSoN,

Clrk."

The summons bears the following return:
"Received this summons at 2 P.m., March 17, 1890, and I
certify to having served said summons by leaving a copy
thereof with J. W. Williams, the agent of the within named
defendants, at Muscogee, this 17th day of March, 1890.
"T. B.

NEEDLES,

A'amSkal."

The complaint began as follows: "The plaintiff, Ben. F.
Lafayette, white, and residing in the Indian Territory, and
plaintiff, Sallie M. Hailey, an Indian, and residing in the

Indian Territory, allege that defendants George A. Eddy and
I. C. Cross, white men, were at the time hereinafter mentioned, and are now, the receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway, a duly incorporated railroad company doing
business in the Indian Territory, and operating its railroad
through the Indian Territory under and by virtue of the laws
of the United States, and that said George A. Eddy and
of -duly appointed as reH. C. Cross were on the -day
ceivers of said railroad by the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eighth judicial circuit." It proceeded to allege
that the said railroad was located near the premises of the
plaintiff, Sallie M. Hailey, in the Indian Territory; that the
defendants had negligently permitted large quantities of dry
grass and weeds to accumulate on the railroad right of way,
which was 100 feet in width on either side of the track; that
the defendants, on August 20, 1889, were operating and running over the road an engine, No. 63, which was not supplied
with the best appliances for arresting sparks of fire, and that
while using the engine upon the road near the premises of the
plaintiff, Sallie M . Hailey, .they negligently permitted it to cast
sparks and coals of fire into the dry grass on the said right of
way, thus starting a fir&which spread over the land of-the
said plaintiff, and there destroyed large quantities of hay,

EDDY v. LAFAYETTE.
Statement of the Case.

which she and the plaintiff, Ben. F. Lafayette, had jointly
put up and cured, and in the proceeds of the sale of which
the plaintiffs were in certain proportions to share. It was
averred that the amount of the hay so destroyed was 666"
tons, of the value of $2666, for which sums the plaintiffs asked
judgment.
On May 6, 1890, the defendants entered a special appearance in the case, stating that they appeared "specially and
only for the purposes of this motion and for no other purpose," and moved the court to quash both the said summons
and the said return, upon the grounds that the summons was
improperly and illegally issued, did not show the nature of
the complaint filed, and did not set forth a cause of action;
that the return was untrue; that J. W. Williams, who was
designated in the return as "the agent of the within named
defendants," was not, on March 17, 1890, such agent; that
J. W. Williams was not on that day such a person as could
legally have been served with process against the said receivers; and that the return and service were made improperly. In support of this motion the defendants proved
that they were receivers of the said Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway, duly appointed as such by the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Kansas, and by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Arkansas, prior to the institution of this suit; that as such
they were engaged in operating the said railway previously
to and at the time of the service of the summons upon J. W.
Williams; and that J. W. Williams was, on March 17, 1890,
station agent for the said receivers at Muscogee, Indian Territory. The defendants filed at the same time the affidavit of
J. W. Williams, to the effect that since the month of June,
1887, he had been station agent for the said receivers, but that
he had never been the agent of "the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway, a corporation," within the Indian Territory,
and was not such agent on March 17, 1890.
The court having heard and considered the motion, overruled the same, to which action the defendants excepted.
Afterwards, on May 19, 1890, they filed their answer; deny-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ing therein all the essential allegations of the complaint, but
protesting that they bad not been served with process, and
asserting that the court had not acquired jurisdiction over
them in the case.
A trial was duly had before the court and a jury. After
all the evidence on the part of the plaintiffs had been introduced, the defendants moved to have the same stricken out
for the reason that it did not show that the engine which
caused the alleged damage was engine No. 63, as alleged in
the complaint. The motion was overruled, and the court
granted the plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint by
striking out of the same the words and figures "No. 63."
The defendants excepted, and then moved for a continuance
of the case in order to give them time to meet the allegations of the complaint as amended. This motion also was
overruled, to which action the defendants excepted.
At the close of all the testimony the defendants moved the
court to direct the jury to return a verdict in their favor.
The court overruled the motion, and the defendants excepted.
They then requested the court to give the jury certain instructions, among which was the following:
"The court instructs the jury that if you find from the
evidence in this case that the hay claimed by the plaintiffs to
have been burned by sparks cast out from the fire of one
of defendants' engines was cut from the public domain or
open lands of the Creek nation, and not upon land owned
or possessed by plaintiffs or either or both of them, and that
said hay was so cut upon the said public domain or open lands
of the Creek nation, without the consent of the said Creek
nation or its officers or agents, then the plaintiffs cannot recover
in this action."
The court refused to give this instruction, to which refusal
the defendants excepted. Among the instructions which the
court gave, and to the giving of which the defendants excepted, were the following:
"X. The court further instructs the jury that evidence of a
railway company allowing combustible materials to accumulate upon its track and right of way which is liable to take

EDDY v. LAFAYETTE.
Opinion of the Court

fire from sparks escaping from passing engines and communicate it to adjacent property, is sufficient to warrant the jury
in imputing negligence to the company."
"XII. It is the duty of a railroad company to keep its
right of way clear of combustible materials, and failure to
do so is a circumstance showing negligence.
"XIII. The court further instructs the jury that if they
shall find for the plaintiffs, then the measure of damages is the
market value of the hay when burned, together with interest
at six per cent per annum from the date of the destruction
of the hay."
On June 27, 1891, the jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiffs for the sum of $2664, with interest thereon at six per cent,
and on July 10, 1891, judgment was entered in favor of the
plaintiffs in the said amount, with six per cent interest on the
same from date until paid. The defendants took the case upon
writ of error to the United States Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, where, on February 15,1892, the said judgment
was affirmed, 4 U. S. App. 247. They then made a motion for
a rehearing in that court, and the same having been denied,
they sued out a writ of error bringing the case here.
.Mr. Jazme8 Hagerman, -Mr. Cliford 1. Jackson and -Mr.

.oseph Xl. Bryson for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. William T. Hutchings for defendants in error.
MiR. JusTICE SHnRAS delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought in the United States Court in
the Indian Territory to recover for damages caused to the
property of the plaintiffs by the negligent management of the
railroad of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company,
a corporation created by the laws of the United States, and,
at the time of the accident, in the control and management
of George A. Eddy and Harrison C. Cross, receivers, who had
been appointed such by the United States Circuit Court for the
District of Kansas and by the United States Circuit Court for

OCTOBER TERIA, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the District of Arkansas. Both of those districts and the Indian Territory constitute a portion of the eighth judicial circuit
of the United States, and the railroad in question traverses the
States of Arkansas, Kansas and the Indian Territory.
The first question presented is whether the trial court acquired jurisdiction to try the case against Eddy and Cross,
receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway, by
virtue of the summons served on one Williams as agent of
said receivers in charge of their station at Muskogee in the
Indian Territory.
The return of the marshal was that he had served the
summons by leaving a copy thereof with J. W. Williams, the
agent of the defendants at Muskogee, on March 17, 1890.
.On April 8, 1890, the defendants entered a special appearance by attorney, and moved to quash the return of the marshal, for four reasons: "First, because on the day alleged in
said return as the day of the service of said summons, to wit,
March 17, 1890, J. W. Williams, styled in the marshal's
return on said writ of summons as the agent of the within
named defendants, was not such agent; second, because said
J. W. Williams, on the 17th day of March, 1890, was not such
a person upon whom process against the said George A. Eddy
and I. C. Cross, receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway, could legally have been served; third, because said
return is untrue; fourth, because said service and said return
were illegally and improperly made."
On May 6, 1890, the defendants, appearing specially, withdrew the motion theretofore filed by them to quash the return
of the writ of summons, and, again appearing specially, and
only for the purposes of a motion to quash writ of summons
and return thereon, and, by leave of court, filed such motion,
and in support thereof filed an affidavit of J. IW. Williams and
a certified copy of the order appointing receivers. The reasons filed in support of the second motion to quash were as
follows: "First, because said writ of summons is improperly and illegally issued; second, because the writ of summons
in this cause does not show the nature of the complaint filed
herein; third, because no cause of action is set forth in the

EDDY v. LAFIYETTE.
Opinion of the Court.

writ of summons issued herein; fourth, because said return
on said writ is untrue; fifth, because said J. W. Williams,
who is designated in said return as the agent of George A.
Eddy and H. C. Cross, receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway, a corporation, was not on the day alleged in
said return as the day of the service of said summons, to wit,
said 17th day of March, 1890, such agent; sixth, because said
J. W. Williams was not on said 17th day of -March,1890, such
a person upon whom process against George A. Eddy and
H. C. Cross, as receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway, could legally have been served; seventh, because
said return and such service were illegally and improperly
made."
The affidavit of J. V. Williams was to the effect that, at
no time was he ever the agent of the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway, a corporation within the Indian Territory,
but that since the month of June, 1887, he has been station
agent for George A. Eddy and H. C. Cross, receivers of the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, and has been
such agent at said town of Muscogee in the Indian Territory.
It, therefore, appears by the affidavit of J. W. Williams
that the allegation, in the reasons filed, that said Williams
was not the agent of the said receivers, was untrue, and that
Williams was their agent at the time and place named in the
return.
So far, then, as the objection to the service and return of
the summons depended on the allegation that Williams was
not the agent of the receivers, it goes for naught, but the
question remains whether he was such a person or agent on
whom process against the receivers could be validly served.
In and by the act of Congress of May 2, 1890, c. 182, ยง 31,
26 Stat. 81, 94, it was provided that certain general laws of
the State of Arkansas, in force at the close of the session of
the general assembly of that State of 1883, as published in
1884 in the volume known as Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, should be extended and put in force in the
Indian Territory until Congress should otherwise provide;
and among those laws, so extended, were those relating to

OCTOBER TERY, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

questions of practice and procedure; and it is alleged, in the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the present case,
that it is conceded that under the laws of the State of Arkansas, which have been made applicable to the Indian Territory,
such service as was had in the present case is sufficient to confer jurisdiction, when the defendant is a railway company or
a foreign corporation.
The trial court and also the Circuit Court of Appeals were
of opinion that the third section of the judiciary act of March
3, 1887, c. 373, ยง 2, 24 Stat. 552, 554, authorizing suits to be
brought against receivers of railroads, without special leave
of the court by which they were appointed, was intended to
place receivers upon the same plane with railroad companies,
both as respects their liability to be sued for acts done while
operating a railroad and as respects the mode of service. We
concur in that view, and in the conclusion reached, that the
service in the present case, on an agent of the receivers, was
sufficient to bring them into court in a suit arising within the
Indian Territory.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider the
soundness of the further view of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that the receivers waived their objections to the service of
the summons by pleading to the merits and going to trial,
although having excepted to the rulings of the trial court sustaining the regularity of the service. Such is certainly not
the general rule. The court below thought the rule in Arkansas is that mere defects in the service of process may be
waived by appearance after a motion has been overruled to set
aside the service in cases where the court has jurisdiction of
the subject-matter of the controversy and the defect in the
service only impairs the jurisdiction over the person of the
defendant, citing several decisions of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas to that effect. As already said, however, we do not
deem it necessary for us to consider that ground of the decision upholding the validity of the service in the present case.
Another objection argued in the court below and in this
to the summons was that it did not sufficiently set forth the
nature of the complaint.

EDDY v. LAFAYETTE.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals were of
opinion that the terms of the summons were in accordance
with the provisions of ยง 4868, Mansfield's Digest of Statutes
of Arkansas, under which this summons was issued, and we
see no reason why we should not agree with them.
Coming to the case on its merits we are met by the contention that the plaintiffs failed to show such title to the hay
destroyed as entitled them to recover its value. The title to
the land from which this hay was cut is in the Creek nation,
and it is claimed that the nation alone is in possession of the
land and entitled to maintain an action for trespass or injury
to the same. The view taken of this contention by the Circuit Court of Appeals was that the record failed to show
whether the hay was cut on the common pasturage of the
nation or on lands at the time occupied and held by Mrs.
Hailey individually, according to the customs and usages of
the nation, and that court declined to presume that either of
the plaintiffs was guilty of a trespass, much less that in
cutting the hay either of them violated a criminal statute.
The latter observation, as to a violation of a criminal
statute, was occasioned by the putting in evidence by the defendants of a statute of the Creek nation, as contained in the
compilation of their laws of March 1, 1890, which was in force
at the time the hay in question was cut and burned, and was
in the following words:
"No non-citizen licensed trader, who has not intermarried
with a citizen of this nation, shall be allowed to enclose
more than two acres of our public domain, nor be allowed to
cut and put up hay from our common pasturage, and any noncitizen, not intermarried, licensed trader found cutting and
putting up hay from the common pasturage shall be fined ten
dollars per acre for each acre so cut and put up."
And as it was shown that B. F. Lafayette, one of the plaintiffs, was a non-citizen licensed trader, not intermarried with
a citizen of the nation, it was urged that he, as a trespasser,
could not recover for the hay. But the evidence for the
plaintiff tended to show that the hay in question was cut and
put up for Mrs. Sarah M. Hailey, a citizen of the Creek
VOL. cLx-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

nation, who had contracted with Lafayette to cut and put up
the hay, and that Lafayette was to have an interest in the
proceeds of the hay, in consideration of his services.
There was no evidence tending to show-that Mrs. Haley,
in procuring the hay in question to be cut and put up, was
acting illegally or was in anywise a trespasser. And the
statute above quoted implies that citizens of the nation might
cut hay without limit from the common pasturage, as it forbids only non-citizen traders from cutting hay from the common pasturage; and we agree with the court below that there
is nothing in the present record that would authorize us to
say that the hay was gathered on the public domain without
license. No law of the nation was shown forbidding Mrs.
Haley from cutting hay on land which she occupied in common with other members of the Creek nation.
The trial court charged the jury as follows: "The court
further instructs the jury that evidence showing that the fire
originated from sparks of a passing engine isprimafaevi proof
of negligence, and the burden shifts on the railway company
to show that it was guilty of no negligence," and it is assigned
for error in this court that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred
in not correcting this error. It is sufficient to say that no
exception was taken to this part of the charge in the trial
court, nor was it assigned for error in the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Exception was taken in the trial court to the following part
of the charge: "The court further instructs the jury that
evidence of a railroad company allowing combustible materials
to accumulate upon its track and right of way which is liable
to -take fire from sparks escaping from passing engines and
communicate it to adjacent property, is sufficient to warrant
the jury in imputing negligence to the company;" and that
instruction was assigned for error in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, whose refusal to hold the same to have been erroneous is complained of here.
We think that part of the charge was plainly correct, and
no error was committed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in
sustaining it. As we read the instructions given by the trial

EDDY v. LAFAYETTE.
Opinion of the Court.

court, the jury were not told that the action of the railway
company in allowing combustible materials to accumulate
upon its track and right of way, which was liable to take fire
from sparks and communicate it to adjacent property, was
negligence of itself, but was a fact from which, in the circumstances shown, the jury might infer negligence.
Nor do we find any error in the treatment given by the
Circuit Court of Appeals to the several assignments respecting the trial court's instructions on the subject of the respective duties of the railroad company and of the plaintiffs.
The court instructed the jury that the measure of damages
was the market value of the hay burned together with interest
at six per cent per annum from the date of the destruction
of the hay, and to this instruction exception was duly taken.
Undoubtedly the rule, in cases of tort, is to leave the question of interest as damages to the discretion of the jury. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, while saying that the better, though
not the invariable, practice is to leave the allowance of interest,
in cases of tort, to the discretion of the jury, regarded it as
quite evident from the record that, in point of fact, the jury
did not allow interest, but based their verdict entirely upon
the number of tons of hay destroyed at the market value per
ton. Regarding the error, if such it was, as immaterial, the
Circuit Court of Appeals declined to disturb the judgment of
the trial court, and we acquiesce in that disposition of the
question.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Afirmed.

