OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

of diverse citizenship.

But they are equally applicable where

its original jurisdiction of a suit between citizens of the same
State is invoked upon the ground that the suit is one arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States. We are
not required to say that it is essential to the maintenance of
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of such a suit that the
pleadings should refer, in words, to the particular clause of
the Constitution relied on to sustain the claim of immunity
in question, but only that the essential facts averred must
show, not by inference or argumentatively, but clearly and
distinctly, that the suit is one of which the Circuit Court is
entitled to take cognizance. Ansbro v. United States, 159
U. S. 695.
Without expressing any opinion as to the effect of the
proceedings in the probate court and the sale by the administrator Hall upon the rights acquired by the plaintiff under
the tax sale at which Thaddeus Hanford purchased, we
adjudge that the court below properly sustained the demurrer for want of jurisdiction, and, therefore, did not err in
dismissing the bill.
Judgment aajirnmd.

RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
LEAK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 2 5. Argued and submitted May 4, 1896. -Decided May 18, 1896.
It is no error to refuse to give an instruction when all its propositions are
embraced in the charge to the jury.
It is no error In an action like this to refuse an instruction which singles
out particular circumstances, and omits all reference to others of importance.
This case was fairly submitted to the jury with no error of law to the prejudice of the defendant.

Tmis writ of error brought up for review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, affirming a judg-

RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY v. LEAK.

281

Statement of the Case.
ment of the District Court of the Third Judicial District in
that Territory in favor of the defendant in error, based upon
the verdict of a jury against the Rio Grande Western Railway Company for the sum of $13,370.
It is averred in the complaint-that on or about the 11th day
of July, 1891, the plaintiff Leak was engaged in his business
of hauling ore to cars of the defendant situated on its track,
and was travelling with his team of horses and wagon on a
wagon road usually travelled, and provided by defendant to be
travelled, in the business of the hauling of ores to its cars;
that when he had reached the place or crossing where the
wagon road crossed the railroad track, the defendant carelessly and negligently caused a train of cars to approach the
crossing and then and there to pass rapidly over its track,
and negligently and carelessly omitted its duty whilst approaching that crossing to give any signals or warning whatever of the approach of its cars or to stop or to slacken the
speed thereof, by reason whereof the plaintiff, without any
fault on his part, was unaware of their approach; that in consequence of this negligence and carelessness of defendant the
train of cars struck the plaintiff and his horses and wagon and
overset the wagon, whereby he was thrown with great force
and violence upon the ground and underneath said wagon and
cars, and thereby greatly bruised, crushed and maimed, insomuch that it became necessary to amputate, and the left leg
of the plaintiff was amputated, inflicting upon him lasting and
permanent bodily injuries, causing him great bodily pain and
mental anguish, damaging him in the sum of twenty thousand
dollars, and compelling him to lay out and expend for doctors'
medical attendance one hundred and five dollars.
The complainant also asserted a claim for the value of his
horses and wagon alleged to have been killed and destroyed
by reason of the carelessness and negligence of the defendant
company as above alleged.
The answer puts in issue the allegations of the complaint
and, in addition, states: "If the plaintiff sustained any injuries or damages whatsoever the same were caused and occasioned solely by reason and because of his own negligence

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

and carelessness in driving into and remaining in a dangerous
place, knowing of the danger, and in negligently and carelessly failing to observe the approach of the cars referred to
in the complaint, when the means and opportunity of observation were open to him, and in not removing himself from
the place of danger after he knew of the existence thereof
and after he had been warned thereof, and not because or by
reason of any negligence or carelessness on the part of the
defendant, its officers, agents or servants."
The court, after stating that the action was not to recover
damages in consequence of any other negligence than that
described in the complaint, and that the negligence complained of was that the defendant carelessly and negligently
caused its cars to approach the crossing, and failed to give
any signal or warning whatever of their approach, or to stop
or to slacken their. speed before the injury, said: "The defendant in its answer denies the allegations of the, complaint
and alleges that the plaintiff was also guilty of negligence that
contributed to the injury, and it is for the gentlemen of the
jury, in the light of all the evidence, after carefully considering it, to determine, first, whether the defendant was guilty
of the negligence described in the complaint; second, if you
should find that defendant was guilty of the negligence described in the complaint, it is then your duty to consider and
determine whether the plaintiff himself was guilty of negligence that contributed to the injury. In determining the
question of negligence, both on the part of the plaintiff and
defendant, you should consider all the circumstances under
which the defendant caused the acts to be performed, as
alleged in the complaint, and under which its agents or servants failed to act, if you find they did fail in such respect.
You have a right to take into consideration the conditions
surrounding the injury, the situation of the parties, the location of both the railroad tracks and the wagon road if you
believe there was a wagon road from the evidence, and their
location with respect to each other, and the fact that the
plaintiff was hauling ore, if you believe that he was (as to that, I
presume, there is no dispute). You have a right to take into

RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY v. LEAK.

283

Statement of the Case.

consideration the cars of the defendant and their situation
and location upon the ore track. You have a right to take
into consideration the crossing, as to whether the defendant
placed the crossing there for the plaintiff and others to travel
over and upon the wagonway, if you believe there was a
wagon [way] on which persons usually travelled, and that
the plaintiff at the time of the injury was travelling upon the
wagonway. You have a right to take into consideration the
fact that the train of cars, one of which struck plaintiff's
wagon (as to that, I presume, there is no dispute) -you have
a right to take into consideration the fact that it came down
grade without an engine attached to it, and then passed up a
slight grade at the time it struck the plaintiff's wagon, if
[you] believe from the evidence that it did so pass down and
up. It is your duty to take into consideration all of the evidence bearing upon the question of negligence, and, in the
light of it all, you must determine whether the defendant was
guilty of the negligence charged or whether the plaintiff was
guilty of negligence contributing to the injury."
The defendant excepted to that portion of the above instruction in which the court said that the jury "should consider all the circumstances under which the defendant caused
the acts to be performed as alleged in the complaint."
The court properly instructed the jury in relation to the
degree of care required at the hands of the defendant and its
servants, as well as to their right to judge of the credibility of
the witnesses. It further said: "It is your duty to weigh the
evidence carefully, candidly and impartially, and in so weighing it you should be careful to draw reasonable inferences,
not to pick out any particular fact and give it undue weight,
but you should give it such weight as you think it is entitled
to as reasonable men looking at it impartially. You should
consider the evidence all together. Where there is a conflict
in the testimony you should reconcile it if you can upon any
reasonable hypothesis. If you cannot reconcile their testimony, then you must determine whom you will believe.
You are the sole judges of the facts. If you find the issues
for the plaintiff you should consider the extent of the injury

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

as it appears from the evidence, whether it is permanent or
temporary. You have a right also to take into consideration
the physical pain and mental anguish caused by the injury
and the extent which the plaintiff has been deprived of the
capacity to earn a living or to accumulate money or other
property. You have a right to take into consideration the
injury to his property, the fact that his horse was killed, the
injury to the wagon and the harness, if you believe from
the evidence that they were injured, and, so considering all
the evidence with respect to the injury of the plaintiff and
his property as described in the complaint, you should give
him such compensation as will remunerate him for the injury
sustained. You must look at it in a pecuniary point of view,
estimating his loss in money."
.Mr. 0. V. Bennett for plaintiff in error submitted on his
brief.
-Mr. Orlando WT.Powers for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicn HARN,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

1. At the trial the defendant asked the court to instruct
the jury that "it was the duty of the plaintiff before he
crossed the line of defendant's railway, or approached it so
closely that he might be injured by cars passing thereon, to
look and listen up and down the track for approaching cars,
and if he failed to so look and listen just prior to and up to
the time of the accident, and if by so doing he could have
discovered the approaching cars in time to have avoided the
accident, his failure to so look and listen was negligence contributing to his injury, and your verdict must be for defendant, unless you believe defendant's servant in charge of said
cars discovered plaintiff's danger in time to have avoided the
accident by the use of ordinary care."
The refusal to give this instruction was not error, for the
reason that all the propositions in it were embraced in the
charge to the jury, and it was not necessary to repeat them

RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY v. LEAK.

2S5

Opinion of the Court.

in special instructions asked by either party. The court had
previously charged the jury as follows: "That though the
defendant may have been guilty of negligence that contributed to the injury, yet if the plaintiff was also guilty of negligence that contributed to the injury he cannot recover, and
in determining whether he acted with due care you may take
into consideration the circumstances under which he was acting. You have a right to take into consideration he was
travelling upon the travelled way usually travelled by persons
hauling ore to this train. You have a right to take into consideration the observation that he made, so far as the evidence
shows it- whether he looked out, as he should have done,
for the danger of coming cars or whether he listened. You
should take into consideration all of the circumstances - all
that he did and all that he failed to do -in order to determine whether he acted with due care or was guilty of negligence. The court further charges you that if the plaintiff
attempted to cross defendant's line of railway or to approach
so near it as injury might have resulted to him, where he
should, by the exercise [of] ordinary care, see that it was
especially dangerous, it was plaintiff's dity to use an amount
of care proportionate to the danger. Of course, when persons
are acting under dangerous circumstances and conditions, it
is their duty to act with respect to the danger that surrounds
them and to use a greater degree of care where there is much
danger than where there is but little."
The jury were also instructed that it was their duty to take
into consideration all the evidence bearing upon the question
of negligence, and, in the light of it all, determine whether the
defendant was guilty of the negligence charged, or whether
the plaintiff was guilty of negligence contributing to the
injury.
Thus the jury were distinctly told that, taking into consideration all the circumstances, all that the plaintiff did or
failed to do, including such observation as the plaintiff made,
so far as the evidence showed it, they must determine whether
"he looked out, as hie should have done, for the danger of coming trains, or whether he listened." This is a distinct affirma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the duty to look out for the coming of trains. When
to this specific reference to the duty of looking and listening
for approaching trains was added the general instruction
that the plaintiff must have used such care as was proportionate to the danger of injury resulting from the crossing of a
railroad track, otherwise he could not recover, no foundation
is left upon which to rest the charge of error in refusing the
particular instruction asked by the defendant.
2. It is assigned for error that the trial court refused to give
the following instruction asked by the defendant: "If before
crossing defendant's line of railway or approaching the same
so closely that he might be injured by cars passing thereon,
the plaintiff did look and listen for approaching cars and
ascertained that such cars were approaching, or might have so
ascertained if he had looked and listened with ordinary care,
then it was negligence for the plaintiff to drive so close to such
railway as to be injured by passing cars, although the plaintiff
may have believed that he could succeed in crossing said line
before the cars reached the place of collision, and your verdict
must be for defendant unless you believe that defendant's servant in charge of said cars discovered plaintiff's danger in
time to have avoided the accident by the use of ordinary
care."
The only distinct thought in favor of the defendant embodied in this instruction, not covered by the charge of the
court, was that it was negligence in the plaintiff to drive so
close to the railroad as to be injured by passing cars. But
upon this point the charge of the court was full and abundantly explicit; for, the jury were told that they must look
at all the circumstances in determining whether the plaintiff
acted with due care or was guilty of negligence; that if he
attempted to cross the railroad or to approach so near to it
that injury might have resulted, he was under a duty to use
such care as was proportionate to the danger; and, generally,
that all persons acting under dangerous circumstances and
conditions must have due regard to the danger that surrounds
them, and use a greater degree of care where there was much
danger than where the danger was but little.

RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY v. LEAK.

287

Opinion of the Court.

3. It is next assigned for error that the trial court refused
the following instruction asked by the defendant: "If the
defendant licensed the plaintiff to go with his team in that
portion of its yard where plaintiff was injured, yet defendant
would not be liable to plaintiff for any injury resulting to
him from any condition of the premises known to the plaintiff
from the ordinary nature of the business carried on by it
there."
This instruction might well have been refused as inapplicable to any issue made by the pleadings. The plaintiff did not
ground his action upon any defective condition of the defendant's premises, nor upon the manner in which its business on
such premises was ordinarily carried on. His claim for damages was placed solely on the ground of the defendant's negligence in running its cars over its track. :Nevertheless, the
court, out of abundant caution, distinctly charged the jury
that the defendant was not liable to the plaintiff for any defect
in the manner of locating or in the construction of its tracks
or switches; that the location or construction of the switches
was not alleged as a cause of action; and that it was the duty
of the jury, in order to determine whether the plaintiff or the
defendant acted negligently or with due care, to take into consideration the location of the tracks and the whole situation
as shown by the evidence in order to determine whether they
did act prudently and with good care or, on the contrary,
whether they acted with negligence. These instructions meet
any possible objection to the refusal of the trial court to give
the above instruction asked by the defendant.
4. Another assignment of error relates to the refusal of the
trial court to give the following instructions: "If the plaintiff saw the cars coming and knew that there was danger of a
collision, or by the use of ordinary care could have so seen and
known in time to escape therefrom by leaving his wagon, and
if, notwithstanding such danger, he remained in his wagon for
the purpose of attempting to save his wagon or horses, then
you should not find a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in respect to any injury to his person unless you believe from the
evidence that the brakeman in charge of said cars saw plain-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

tiff's danger in time to have avoided the accident by the use
of ordinary care."

It was not an error to refuse this instruction. It was liable
to the objection that it singled out particular circumstances
and omitted all reference to others of importance. In Grand
Trunk Railway v. Ives, 144 U. S. 40S, 433, it was said that
"in determining whether the deceased was guilty of contributory negligence, the jury were bound to consider all the facts
and circumstances bearing upon that question, and not select
one particular prominent fact or circumstance as controlling
the case to the exclusion of all the others." If the question
of the ability of the plaintiff to have escaped personal injury
"by leaving his wagon" was involved in the issue as to contributory negligence, the jury were entitled to consider the
evidence relating to that matter under the general direction to
look at all the circumstances in determining whether the plaintiff was injured without fault or negligence on his part. The
charge upon that subject was ample for all the purposes of a
fair trial, and no injustice was done to the defendant by the
refusal of the court to single out the fact that the plaintiff did
not jump from or leave his wagon as the defendant's train
approached, and take the chances of being personally injured
in that way. Besides, the instruction asked by the defendant
was so framed as to leave out of view any element of personal
danger to the plaintiff by attempting to leave his wagon, provided, by getting out of it or by jumping from it, he could
have escaped injury by coming into collision with the defendant's cars. The jury might well have understood the instruction to mean that the possibility or probability of personal injury to the plaintiff by leaving his wagon was an immaterial
eircumstance if, by adopting that course, he could have escaped
injury by actual collision with the cars of the defendant. The
railway company could not escape responsibility for the negligence of its servants, resulting in personal injury to the plaintiff, by showing that the latter might not have been so seriously injured if he had left or jumped from his wagon. In
the very nature of things it would have been impossible for
the jury, under the circumstances of the accident, to have

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. KALINSKI.
Syllabus.

determined with any .certainty whether the plaintiff could
have left his wagon without risk of being injured.
Upon a careful examination of the record, we have no reason to doubt that the case was fairly submitted to the jury;
and no error of law to the prejudice of the defendant's rights
having occurred, the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Utah affirming the judgment of the trial court is
Affirmed.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. KALINSKI.'
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 26S. Argued May 1, 1896.-Declded May IS, 1806.

A society extending throughout the country, which was divided into lodges,
whose members were subject to an annual lodge assessment and had also
the right to become members of a separate assessable organization, within
the society, called the endowment fund, having had some differences with
a member who had paid all his endowment assessments but was in
arrear for his dues to his lodge, the supreme head, (called the board of
control,) after careful consideration, decided that in view of the fact
that the keeper of records and seals of the lodge to which he belonged failed to notify the section of which he was a member of the
fact that he was in arrears for dues to his lodge and that the lodge had
failed to suspend him in accordance with the law, and that his section
of the endowment rank had received his monthly assessments up to the
date of his death, the endowment rank was liable for the full amount of
the endowment. Held, that while the courts are not bound by this construction of the organization, the association has no right to complain if
its certificate holders act upon such interpretation, and is not in a position to claim that the ruling was more liberal than the facts of the case
or a proper construction of the rules would warrant; and that whether
the ruling was right or wrong it established a course of business on the
part of the society, upon which its certificate holders had a right to rely.
The continued receipt of assessments upon an endowment certificate up to
the day of the holder's death is, under the circumstances of this ease,
a waiver of any technical forfeiture by reason of non-payment of lodge
dues.
1 The docket title of this case is "The Supreme Lodge Knights of
Pythias of the World, plaintiff in error, v. Mrs. Eugenie Kalinski."

VOL. CLXM-19

