KIRK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

KIRK v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 214. Argued April 14, 189.n-Decded May 4,1898.
If, under any circumstances, a patentee can sue to recover for the use of
a patented article, made before the letters-patent were granted, he cannot do so when he was not the inventor of the thing patented; when
the device had been in public use for more than two years before the
patent was applied for; when the alleged use was by the United States;
and when the government, so far from agreeing to pay a royalty for it,
had protested against any patent being issued for it.

Tsis was a claim by George E. Kirk as assignee of letterspatent No. 462,224, for a street letter-box, issued October 27,
1891, to Samuel Strong, upon an application filed therefor
March 9, 1874.
The original petition was filed October 27, 1884, about ten
years after the application for the patent was filed, and seven
years before it was finally issued.
The case having been tried by the Court of Claims, that
court made a finding of facts, of which the following is an
abstract:
On March 30 and August 31, 1869, there were granted to
said Samuel Strong two patents, Nos. 88,525 and 94,449, for
improvements in street letter-boxes, and on the 15th of September of the same year, Strong entered into a contract in
writing with the defendant, through the Postmaster General,
whereby Strong contracted to furnish cast-iron street letterboxes for the use of the Post Office Department, in such numbers and at such times and places as might be ordered by the
Postmaster General, up to October 1, 1872. These letterboxes were to be of the size, shape, weight and model of one
deposited by him in the Post Office Department, the design
and construction of which were carefully specified in the contract, the United States on its part agreeing to pay $5.50 for
each box furnished and put up, according to order.
A few days after this contract was executed, namely, SepVOL. CLXM--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

tember 27, Strong assigned to one Gideon L. Walker all his
interest in the two patents above mentioned, as well as his
interest in and to a certain invention in street letter-boxes for
which he claimed he had prepared and filed specifications, preparatory to obtaining a patent therefor. But whether such
patent was ever issued did not appear.
The letter-boxes so contracted to be furnished by Strong
were actually furnished by him, and were the letter-boxes for
which he had secured a patent for what is known as the "flattop" letter-box. But, in consequence of complaints made to
the Postmaster General to the effect that such boxes were too
wide, unsightly in appearance and unsatisfactory, he called
together at Washington a convention, of postmasters ald other
postal officials, to consult with regard to the general good of
the service. Before this convention, which met in January,
1870, the Postmaster General laid for inspection several models
of letter-boxes, including the one then in use, furnished by
Strong, under his contract; but the convention rejected all
such models, and, endeavoring to avoid conflict with any
existing patent, devised a letter-box based upon their own experience, and by a communication addressed to the Postmaster
General, dated January 15, 1870, recommended the adoption
of a box "about one and a half feet in length, about six inches
in depth and twelve inches in width, with an opening at the
top sufficiently large to receive newspapers and magazines,
the opening or receptacles especially protected from the
weather with a curved top to carry off the water, and a door
in the side or front, with side flanges, to take the matter from,
and that the hours for collection be distinctly shown upon the
outside of the box." At the same time and in the same communication they condemned the street letter-box "now furnished the department under the contract known as the Strong
patent."
Pursuant to such recommendations, a letter-box was devised and adopted by the Postmaster General, known as the
"round-top," and Strong was engaged to model, manufacture
and furnish to the Post Office Department such boxes, with
such alterations and improvements therein as the Postmaster

KIRK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

General might suggest; and in pursuance thereof a written
contract was entered into between Strong and the defendant on February 18, 1870, to continue in force for four years
thereafter. This contract in terms superseded and annulled
the contract theretofore made on September 15, 1869. Under
this contract of February 18, 1870, Strong modelled and
manufactured boxes, with such alterations and improvements
therein as were suggested by the Postmaster General, until
boxes giving satisfaction to the Postmaster General bad been
made; and the boxes so modelled and manufactured by said
Strong were the boxes furnished by him to and for the use
of the Post Office Department, under and during the existence of his said contract, and none other, for which he was
paid $5.50 for each of the small size and $7.50 for each of
the large size of said boxes.
A few'days prior to the expiration of the said contract,
namely, on February 11, 1874, Strong filed in the Patent
Office a caveat, and on March 9 an application and specifications claiming to be the inventor of the cast-iron street
letter-box so devised and adopted by the Postmaster General as aforesaid; which letter-box, so devised and adopted
by the Postmaster General, was modelled and manufactured
by Strong under the instructions of the Postmaster General,
as provided should be done in his contract, and the said boxes
so modelled, manufactured and furnished by said Strong
were in public use in the letter-carrier cities of the United
States for more than two years prior to March 9, 1874, the
date when Strong filed his application for a patent thereon.
Pending such application, and on July 29, 187-, the Postmaster General addressed a letter to the Commissioner of
Patents, saying, that the department had been informed
by Strong that he had taken out two caveats to protect
his alleged rights to a certain street letter-box now in use
by authority of the department, stating that such box had
been in use for four years, under contract with Strong of
February 18, 1870, and had been recommended by the convention of postmasters, reduced to shape and form by Strong,
as described by them, and could in no just sense be considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Appellant.

as the invention of Strong, he having simply carried out the
views of the convention in this respect.
On January 26, 1881, Strong assigned all his interest in
the letters-patent and the invention to the claimant, but it
did not appear that Gideon L. Walker, to whom Strong had
theretofore executed an assignmeit in writing, as before
mentioned, consented to such assignment to the claimant
or any one else on the application of September 4, 1869,
referred to in said written assignment.
After the filing of the original petition in this case, to wit,
October 27, 1891, there was issued to the claimant, George
E. Kirk, assignee of said Samuel Strong, letters-patent No.
462,224, which patent covers the same and identical street
letter-box accepted by the Postmaster General, known as
the "round-top," which was modelled and manufactured by
Strong, as hereinbefore set forth.
Subsequently to February 18, 1874, the date of the expiration of the contract with Strong, the Postmaster General
contracted with the Union Foundry and Manufacturing Company, of Reading, Pennsylvania, and others, at divers times,
to manufacture and furnish for the use of the Post Office
Department the same and identical kind of street letter-box
theretofore modelled, manufactured and furnished by said
Strong under his contract, as aforesaid; and it does not
appear that the contracts for the boxes to be furnished were
with the knowledge or consent of said Strong or claimant.
During the six years prior to the filing of the original petition, and up to the date of filing the last amended petition,
January 15, 1892, there were purchased for the use of the
Post Office Department about 35,000 such letter-boxes, a reasonable royalty for the use of which would be $1.00 per box.
Upon the foregoing finding of facts the Court of Claims
decided as a conclusion of law that the claimant was not entitled to recover, and the petition was, therefore, dismissed.
Thereupon petitioner appealed to this court.
Mr. ?. H. Steele and .Mr. Robert A. Howard for appellant.
Mr. E. H. Holman was on Mr. lloward'e brief.

KIRK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinon of the Court.

Mr.A88islant Attorney General Dodge for appellees.
Charle8 C. Binney was on his brief.

_..

MR.JUSTiCE BuowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

In his amended petition of January 26, 1891, claimant asserts himself to be the assignee of the improvements made by
Strong, for which the two patents of March 31 and August
31, 1869, were issued; as well as the assignee of another
patent, issued February 7, 1882; and also of an application
for still another of March 9, 187-. He sets forth the contracts
of September 15, 1869, and February 18, 1870, and the performance of the same, and alleges that, "at the termination
and expiration of said contract, the said Samuel Strong applied to the Postmaster General of the United States for a
renewal of the same; and that, notwithstanding a verbal understanding and promise on the part of the said Postmaster
General, made at the time of the execution of the said contract, that there would be such a renewal, said renewal was
denied to said Samuel Strong, and no further renewal of said
contract has since been made by and between the said parties
thereto."
The gist of his complaint is that, after the expiration of the
contract, the government continued to use the boxes that had
theretofore been manufactured by Strong; that all such letterboxes "were covered by the claims of the aforesaid application
for letters-patent of March 9, 1874, and included by said contracts, and now owned by said claimant;" that such use was
in violation of the rights of claimant, in virtue of his said assignment; that since February 18, 1874, the government has
refused to renew this contract with Strong, or to pay him
anything for the use of the boxes, and that he is entitled to
the sum of $3.50 upon each of said boxes used, under an implied contract to pay for the same.
His allegation with regard to the patent for which application was filed March 9, 1874, is that the application therefor
was examined by the primary examiner and rejected; tha an

OCTOBER TERA, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal was taken to the examiners in chief, which reversed
the decision of the primary examiner, and held that Strong
was entitled to a patent; that, in accordance with such judgment, the Commissioner -of Patents allowed the claims, received the final fee, and ordered the patent to issue, but,
notwithstanding all that, "still withholds the patent for reasons known only to himself, and entirely contrary to the said
express mandate of law."
In an amended petition, filed January 15, 1892, claimant
sets forth that a patent was issued to him on October 27, 1891,
in pursuance of the application of March 9, 1874, and that on
January 15, 1870, a convention of postmasters, which met at
Washington, recommended for adoption to the Postmaster
General the boxes filed with the board, and known as the
Strong boxes, and that it was the intention and understanding of the Postmaster General that the invention so adopted
should be used by the government, and a reasonable and just
compensation made for the use of the same.
In this connection, however, it is found by the Court of
Claims that the two patents of 1869 were, on the 27th day
of September of that year, assigned to Gideon L. Walker, and
consequently that Kirk took nothing by the assignment to
him of the same patents of January 6, 1881; and that the
patent of February 7, 1882, was not included in the assignment to Kirk, but still appeared to be owned by Strong. It
follows that the only invention or patent in which claimant
appears to have any interest is that known as the -roundtop"' box, which claimant holds by authority of the assignment of January 6, 1881, for which letters-patent were never
issued until 1$91, seventeen years after Strong's contract with
the government had expired. The court further found that
the round-top letter-box was devised and adopted by the
Postmaster General himself; that Strong was employed to
model, manufacture and furnish these boxes for a term of
four years, with such alterations and improvements therein
as the Postmaster General might suggest; that a few days
before the expiration of this contract, Strong filed a caveat
in the Patent Office and made application for a patent for the

KIRK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

boxes so devised and adopted by the Postmaster General,
which letter-box had been manufactured by Strong under his
instructions; and that they had been in public use for more
than two years prior to March 9,-1874, when Strong filed his
application therefor; that the Postmaster General protested
against the grant of a patent to Strong, and that the same
was not granted until seventeen years thereafter.
Discarding, then, the patents of 1869 and 1872 as immaterial, the case resolves itself into the question whether the
assignee of a person who did not invent the letter-box in dispute, who had no patent for it until after the suit was commenced, who had no contract to manufacture it, and who
finally obtained a-patent against the protest of the government's agent, can recover of the government a royalty for
the use of the device upon the theory of an implied promise to pay for such use. There can be but one answer to
this proposition.
The application of Strong to patent a letter-box which he
did not invent was naturally suggested by the fact that his
contract for manufacturing the same was about expiring, and
he desired to foreclose others from obtaining a further contract by securing a patent for the box. If a patentee could
under any circumstances sue to recover for the use of a
patented article, made before letters were granted, (as to
which it was held in Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477, 493;
Brown v. _Duclesne, 19 How. 183, 195; Jfars&v. NTichols,
128 U. S. 605, 612; Sargent v. Seagrave, 2 Curt. 553, 555; and
Rein v. Clayton, 37 Fed. Rep. 354, that an inventor has no
exclusive right before a patent has been issued,) it certainly
could not apply to a case where the patentee was not the
inventor of the thing patented; where the device had been
in public use for more than two years before the patent was
applied for; and where the government, so far from agreeing
to pay a royalty for it, had protested against any patent being
issued for it. We know of no principle upon which a contract
can be evoked from a distinct refusal of one party to recognize the rights of the other, and a formal protest against any
such rights being granted to him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Certain criticisms are made in the briefs of counsel upon
the findings of fact of the Court of Claims, but as no exceptions appear to have been taken thereto, and as the testimony
is not, and under our rules cannot be, sent up with the record,
these findings must be accepted as conclusive, and for the reasons above stated the judgment of the court below is
Afflrmed.

WIGGAN v. CONOLLY.
ERROR TO THE SUPrE!E COURT OF THE STATE OF XANSAS.
No. 225. Submitted April 16, 1890. -Dolded M y 4, 1S90.
The treaty of February 23, 1867, 15 Stat. 513, with the Ottawas and other
Indians, introduced the limit of minority upon the inalienability of lands
patented to a minor allottee, in that respect changing the provisions of
the treaty of July 16, 1862, 12 Stat. 1237; and this limitation was applicable to lands then patented to minors under the treaty of 1867, and cut
off the right of guardians to dispose of their real estate during their
minority, even under direction of the court of the State in which the
laud was situated.

By the first article of the treaty of 1862, negotiated June
24, ratified July 16, and proclaimed July 28, 12 Stat. 1237, it
was provided that--"The Ottawa Indians of the United

Bands of Blanchard's Fork and of iRoche de Bceuf, having
become sufficiently advanced in civilization, and being desirous
of becoming citizens of the United States, it is hereby agreed
and stipulated that their organization and their relations with
the United States, as an Indian tribe, shall be dissolved and
terminated at the expiration of five years from the ratification
of this treaty; and from and after that time the said Ottawas,
and each and every one of them, shall be deemed and declared
to be citizens of the United States, toall intents and purposes,
and shall be entitled to all the rights, privileges and immunities of such citizens, and shall, in all respects, be subject to
the laws of the United States, and of the State or States
thereof in which they may reside."

