OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Certain criticisms are made in the briefs of counsel upon
the findings of fact of the Court of Claims, but as no exceptions appear to have been taken thereto, and as the testimony
is not, and under our rules cannot be, sent up with the record,
these findings must be accepted as conclusive, and for the reasons above stated the judgment of the court below is
Afflrmed.

WIGGAN v. CONOLLY.
ERROR TO THE SUPrE!E COURT OF THE STATE OF XANSAS.
No. 225. Submitted April 16, 1890. -Dolded M y 4, 1S90.
The treaty of February 23, 1867, 15 Stat. 513, with the Ottawas and other
Indians, introduced the limit of minority upon the inalienability of lands
patented to a minor allottee, in that respect changing the provisions of
the treaty of July 16, 1862, 12 Stat. 1237; and this limitation was applicable to lands then patented to minors under the treaty of 1867, and cut
off the right of guardians to dispose of their real estate during their
minority, even under direction of the court of the State in which the
laud was situated.

By the first article of the treaty of 1862, negotiated June
24, ratified July 16, and proclaimed July 28, 12 Stat. 1237, it
was provided that--"The Ottawa Indians of the United

Bands of Blanchard's Fork and of iRoche de Bceuf, having
become sufficiently advanced in civilization, and being desirous
of becoming citizens of the United States, it is hereby agreed
and stipulated that their organization and their relations with
the United States, as an Indian tribe, shall be dissolved and
terminated at the expiration of five years from the ratification
of this treaty; and from and after that time the said Ottawas,
and each and every one of them, shall be deemed and declared
to be citizens of the United States, toall intents and purposes,
and shall be entitled to all the rights, privileges and immunities of such citizens, and shall, in all respects, be subject to
the laws of the United States, and of the State or States
thereof in which they may reside."

WIGGAN v. CONOLLY.
Statement of the Case.

The seventh article reads that- "Proper patents by the
United States shall be issued to each individual member of
the tribe and person entitled for the lands selected and allotted
to them, in which it shall be stipulated that no Indian, except
as herein provided, to whom the same may be issued, shall
alienate or incumber the land allotted to him or her in any
manner until they shall, by the terms of this treaty, become
a citizen of the United States; and any conveyance or incumbrance of said lands, done or suffered, except as aforesaid, by
any Ottawa Indian, of the lands allotted to him or her, made
before they shall become a citizen, shall be null and void.
"And forty acres, including the houses and improvements
of the allottee, shall be inalienable during the natural lifetime
of the party receiving the title."
Esther Wilson, as appears by the census roll, duly certified
by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and the Secretary of
the Interior, of date March 30, 186-, was an allottee under
this treaty, and at that time a girl of the age of seven years.
On December 1, 1865, a patent was issued to her for the land
in controversy, the granting words of which are as follows:
"Now know ye, that the United States of America, in consideration of the premises, and pursuant to the third and
seventh articles of the treaty aforesaid, have given and
granted, and by these presents do give and grant unto the
said Esther Wilson and to her heirs, the tract of land above
described: Provided, however, and these presents are upon
the express condition, and with the limitation as required by
the treaty aforesaid, that the said Esther Wilson shall not
alienate or incumber the aforesaid tracts of land until she
shall become, by the terms of said treaty, a citizen of the
United States; and any conveyance or incumbrance of said
lands, done or suffered by said Esther Wilson, made before
she shall become a citizen, shall be null and void; to have and
to hold the said tracts of land, with the appurtenances, unto
the said Esther Wilson and to her heirs and assigns forever,
subject to the limitation and condition aforesaid."
On February 23, 1867, a treaty was negotiated between the
United States and several Indian tribes, 15 Stat. 513, the scope

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

and purpose of which is disclosed by this recital in the preamble: "Whereas it is desirable that arrangements should be
made by which portions of certain tribes, parties hereto, now
residing in Kansas, should be enabled to remove to other lands
in the Indian country south of that State, while other portions
of said tribes desire to dissolve their tribal relations and become citizens."
Among the parties to this treaty were the Ottawa Indians.
Certain amendments were suggested by the Senate on June
18, 1868, which were accepted by the Indians September 30,
1868, and the treaty proclaimed October 14 following. The
third section provides for a cession by the Shawnees of a
part of their reservation in the Indian Territory to the United
States. The sixteenth recites that this ceded territory "is
hereby sold to the Ottawas at one dollar per acre;" while
the seventeenth section reads as follows :
"The provisions of the Ottawa treaty of one thousand
eight hundred and sixty-two, under which all the tribe were
to become citizens upon the sixteenth of July, one thousand
eight hundred and sixty-seven, are hereby extended for two
years, or until July sixteenth, one thousand eight hundred
and sixty-nine; but at any time previous to that date any
member of the tribe may appear before the United States
District Court for Kansas, and declare his intention to become a citizen, when he shall receive a certificate of citizenship, which shall include his family, and thereafter be
disconnected with the tribe, and shall be entitled to his
proportion of the tribal fund; and all who shall not have
made such declaration previous to the last mentioned date
shall be still considered members of the tribe. In order to
enable the tribe to dispose of their property in Kansas, and
remove to their new homes and establish themselves thereon,
patents in fee simple shall be given to the heads of families.
and to all who have come of age among the allottees under
the treaties of one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, so
that they may sell their lands without restriction, but the
said lands shall remain exempt from taxation so long as
they may be retained by members of the tribe, down to

WIGGAN v. CONOLLY.
Opinion of the CourL

the said sixteenth of July, one thousand eight hundred and
sixty-nine."
On October 26, 1872, Benjamin Esterly, as the guardian of
Esther Wilson, appointed such guardian by the probate court
of Franklin County, State of Kansas, (in which county the
lands in controversy are situated,) executed a deed to John
Wiggan, which deed recites a sale of the entire 80 acres at
private sale for the sum of $60, the confirmation of such sale
by the probate court, and an order on the guardian to execute a deed. Subsequently the grantee therein, John Wiggan,
conveyed to Horace Wiggan and Albert E. Wiiggan. On
February 17, 1881, the allottee, she having in the meantime
been married, under the name of Esther King, commenced an
action in the District Court of Franklin County against said
last named grantees for the recovery of the possession of the
lands. Trial being had, a judgment was rendered in her favor,
which, on June 4, 1886, was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State. On May 6, 1891, the death of Esther King was
suggested, and an order of revivor entered by the Supreme
Court in the names of her heirs at law, Alexander Conolly
and John King, her husband and only child. On May 26,
1892, a writ of eiror was allowed by the chief justice of that
court, and on June 20, 1892, there was filed an affidavit that
one of the defendants, now plaintiff in error, Albert E. Wiggan, was a minor at the time of the judgment of affirmance,
and had not attained his majority until within less than two
years prior to the suing out of the writ of error. The case,
therefore, in this court is pending between one of the original
defendants and the heirs of the original plaintiff.
.3r. Benjamin . Duval and MT. -f. C. .Mechem for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR.Jusno BRuwEE
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

The first question presented by counsel for plaintiff in error

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

is whether the treaty of 1867 was of any validity so far as
respects the Ottawa Indians. The treaty of 1862 provided
that at the expiration of five years from the date of its ratification, that is, on July 16, 1867, the Ottawas should become
citizens of the United States, and the tribal organization and
relations with the United States should be dissolved.
The treaty of 1867, though originally negotiated in February, was not concluded in that year, but was amended in
1868, and not ratified and proclaimed until October 14, 1868,
and more than five years after the ratification of the treaty
of 1862. At the time, therefore, that the later treaty took
effect the Ottawa Indians had, it is contended, under and by
virtue of the earlier treaty, become citizens not only of the
United States but also of the State of Kansas, and hence the
United States had no power to enter into treaty with them,
citizens of a State, without the consent of that State. The
Nation could not, without the consent of the State, withdraw
citizens of the State from its jurisdiction.
We cannot yield our assent to this contention. The negotiations in February, 1867, were while the tribal organization
and relations to the United States continued. They amounted
substantially to a proposition by the tribe to change the treaty
of 1862, and continue the tribal organization and relations
with the United States. This was a valid act on the part of
the tribe. And though the proposition was not accepted by
the United States until after July 16, 1867, yet when accepted
the acceptance related back to the date of the proposition.
That some modifications were made in matters of detail did
not affect the substantial character of the transaction. The
tribe proposed to continue its organization and relations to,
the United States and the Government accepted the proposition. The State of Kansas has never objected, even if it had
any right to object, and it does not lie in the power of an individual to assert any supposed political rights of the State or
challenge the action of the Nation and the Indians in this behalf. The treaty of 1867 was valid and determined the status
and rights of the Indians politically and in respect to their
property.

WIGGAN v. CONOLLY.
Opinion of the Court.

The second proposition of counsel is that under the treaty
of 1867 all the Ottawas became citizens on July 16, 1869, that
the allottee Esther Wilson and her property became then subject to the jurisdiction and laws of the State of Kansas, and
that a guardian's sale of her property made thereafter in conformity with the provisions of the laws of that State passed a
valid title.
If the only provision in the treaty of 1867 affecting this
question was the first clause of the seventeenth section there
might be force in this contention, for that simply extends to
July 16, 1869, the time for terminating the tribal existence
and transforming all the members thereof into individual
citizens of the United States and of the State in which they
reside. Even then we should be confronted with the proposition that under the seventh article of the treaty of 1862 it
was provided that forty acres, including therein the houses
and improvements of the allottee, should be inalienable during his or her life. While that provision continued in force it
may well be doubted whether a deed of the entire allotment,
whether made by the individual or a guardian, would be
sufficient to transfer a legal title to any portion of the allotment, and whether, prior to any such deed, there must not be
a setting off to the allottee according to the demand of the
treaty of the inalienable forty acres. It must be borne in
mind that the proceeding in the state court was not in any.
sense one in partition, or an equitable suit to determine relative rights in a single tract, but was a legal action to recover
possession, against which was set up simply an alleged legal
title in defeat thereof.
But we do not care to rest our decision upon this suggestion.
We think there is something more vital. The treaty of 1867
must be considered as an entirety in its relations to the treaty
of 1862. By the treaty of 1862 the tribal organization was to
disappear on July 16, 1867. If nothing had transpired after
that, on that date the relations of the tribe to the United
States would have ended, the members of the tribe would have
had title to their lands, and they would have become, and been
treated thereafter, as individual citizens of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and of the State in which they resided. But the treaty of 1867
contemplated a different outcome. It proceeded upon the understanding that some at least of the Ottawas, as of the other
tribes, desired to remove from the State of Kansas to the Indian
Territory, and there continue tribal relations with the National
Government. That is evidently the thought expressed in the
recital to the treaty of 1861. Some of the Indians desired to
be citizens; some wanted to retain their tribal relations. In
carrying out that express purpose the time for the dissolution
of the Ottawa tribe was postponed until July 16, 1869, with
the proviso that at any time prior thereto any individual member could become a citizen at his election, and a further provision as to those who did not so elect, as thus expressed in
the seventeenth section, "all who shall not have made such
declaration previous to the last mentioned date shall be still
considered members of the tribe." For what purpose "still
considered members"? Simply to be at that instant changed
into citizens and to lose their tribal relation? Obviously not;
but that they might, if they had not elected to become citizens, remove to the Indian Territory, and continue their tribal
relations. Emphasizing this thought is the subsequent sentence, to the effect that in order to enable the tribe to dispose
of their property in Kansas and remove to their new homes
patents should be issued under certain conditions. In other
words, the idea was that those Indians who did not elect to
become citizens should receive patents for their lands under
such circumstances and conditions as to enable them to dispose
of the lands and remove to the Indian Territory, and, there as
a fragment of the original Ottawa tribe, continue tribal relations with the Government. The provision in reference to
patents must be considered as superseding those of the treaty
of 1862. And by its term patents were to issue to the heads
of families and to all among the allottees coming of age, in
the language of the treaty "so that they may sell their lands
without restriction." It does not appear that the allottee in
this case was the head of a family, and, according to the testimony, she was a minor. This treaty of 1867 introduced a new
limitation upon the inalienability of lands patented to a minor

DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.

63

Syllabus

allottee, that is, the limit of minority. And such limit must
be applied to sales voluntary and involuntary, and cut off the
right of a guardian to dispose of the estate. The fact that the
patent to this allottee had already been issued did not abridge
the right of the United States to add with the consent of the
tribe a new limitation to the power of the individual Indian
in respect to alienation. The land and the allottee were both
still under the charge and care of the Nation and the tribe,
and they could agree for still further protection, a protection
which no individual was at liberty to challenge.
It follows, therefore, that at the time of this assumed
power of the guardian of Esther Wilson to dispose of her
realty such realty was inalienable, and a deed made by the
guardian, though under the authority of the probate court of the
county of the State in which the lands were situated, conveyed
no title. That this conclusion renders ineffective an attempt
to dispose of the lands of an Indian girl, at the price of seventy-five cents an acre, does not any the less commend it to
one's sense of justice.
Ajmed.
The judgment is

DIBBLE v. BELLINGHAM BAY LAND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 230. Argued April 17, 1S6M.-Decided

May 4, 1896.

In a suit in a state court to quiet title, two claims to title were set up by
the plaintiff. The first was that his title had been acquired by adverse
possession, sufficient under the local law. On this point the trial court
found that, in 1862, the plaintiff's grantor entered into possession of the

land in question, and that he and the plaintiff had since been continuously and then were in actual, notorious and adverse possession thereof,
under color and claim of title. The second claim was under a deed from
husband and wife, executed by the former under an alleged power of
attorney from the latter which bad been lost without having been

