SINGER

'F'G CO. v. JUNE

I'F'G CO.

Statement of the Case.

SINGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. JUNE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 6. Argued October 16, 17,1894. -Decided May I, 1S96.
The Singer machines were covered by patents, some fundamental, some
accessory, whereby there was given to them a distinctive character and
form which caused them to be known as the Singer machines, as deviatIng and separable from the form and character of machines made by
other manufacturers.
'The word "Singer" was adopted by Singer & Co. or the Singer Manufacturing Company as designative of their distinctive style of machines,
rather than as solely Indicating the origin of manufacture.
The patents which covered them gave to the manufacturers of the Singer
sewingmachines a substantial monopoly whereby the name "Singer" came
to Indicate the class and type of machines made by that company or corporation, and constituted their generic description, and conveyed to the
public mind the machines made by them.
On the expiration of the patent the right to make the patented article and
to use the generic name passed to the public with the dedication resultIng from the expiration of the patent.
On the expiration of a patent one who uses a generic name, by which articles manufactured under it are known, may be compelled to indicate that
the articles made by him are made by him and not by the proprietors
of the extinct patent.
Where, during the life of a monopoly created by a patent, a name, whether
it be arbitrary or be that of the inventor, has become, by his consent,
either express or tacit, the identifying and generic name of the thing
patented, this name passes to the public with the cessation of the monopoly which the patent created; and where another avails himself of
this public dedication to make the machine and use the generic desigration, he can do so In all forms, with the fullest liberty, by affixing such
name to the machines, by referring to it In advertisements and by other
means, subject, however, to the condition that the name must be so used
as not to deprive others of their rights or to deceive the public, and,
therefore, that the name must be accompanied with such Indications that
the thing manufactured Is the work of the one making It, as will unmistakably Inform the public of that fact.

THE Singer Manufacturing Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey, filed its bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois against the June Manufacturing
Company, an Illinois corporation.
The bill alleged that the complainant was engaged in the
manufacture of sewing machines, and had an exclusive right
to the word "Singer" as a trade name and "designation"
for such sewing machines; it averred that defendant, for the
purpose of inducing the belief that sewing machines manufactured and sold by it were made by the complainant, was
making and selling machines of the exact size, shape, ornamentation and general external appearance as the machines
manufactured by complainant; that the defendant was imitating a described trade-mark which the complainant had for
many years placed upon its machines; that it was imitating "devices" cast by complainant in the legs of the stands
of the machines manufactured and sold by it; and that the
defendant advertised the machines, by it made, by means of
cuts and prints, imitations of the cuts and prints made by complainant and representations of the machines manufactured
by complainant. An accounting for the profits received by
defendant was prayed, as also 'an injunction to restrain the
use by defendant in its business of the word "Singer" as a
designation of the machines manufactured by it, and to restrain a continuation of its other alleged wrongful practices.
In its answer, the defendant denied that it had attempted
to avail itself of the complainant's "representation" and trade
name, or that in anything done by it, it had soughV to induce
the belief that the machines manufactured and sold by it were
manufactured by the complainant, and alleged that the form,
size, shape and appearance of its machine were public property, and not the exclusive property of the complainant. It
was averred that the defendant constructed its machines on
the principles of machines which had been protected by
letters-patent, held by the Singer Company, by license or
otherwise, but which patents had long since expired, and that
the name "Singer" was the generic name of such machines.
The defendant admitted that it affixed an oval plate to its
machines, but claimed that the device placed by it thereon

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE a'lF'G CO.
Statement of the Case.

was dissimilar to that used by the complainant, and averred
that the words "Improved Singer," stamped on such plate,
was the correct name of the machine. It was also averred
that while formerly an elaborate monogram was placed on
said plate, composed of the letters "S. M. Co.," being the
initials of the "Standard Manufacturing Company," (a former corporate name of defendant,) that the monogram now
placed upon said plate was "J. M. Co." It was also claimed
that the device on the legs of the stands of machines manufactured by the defendant was not an imitation of that employed by complainant upon its machines, but that on the
contrary the device used by the defendant was adopted by it
to prevent confusion in the minds of the public as to the
manufacture of the machines.
It appeared from the evidence that the construction of the
Singer sewing machines was commenced in 1850, in the latter
part of which year the firm of I. M. Singer & Co. was formed.
Witnesses testified that the firm named made and introduced
the first practical sewing machine. I. M. Singer & Co. continued in the business of manufacturing sewing machines until
June, 1863, when that firm transferred all its assets, property,
patents and good will to the Singer Manufacturing Company,
a corporation formed under the laws of the State of New York,
and the manufacture of Singer sewing machines was continued
by that corporation. In the year 1873 a new corporation,
known also as the Singer Manufacturing Company, was organized under the laws of New Jersey, to which corporation the
New York concern transferred its assets. The stockholders in
both companies were the same, and the business of the New
York corporation has ever since been continued by the New
Jersey corporation.
The original members of the firm of I. M. Singer & Co. I. f.Singer and Edward Clark -were the principal stockholders of both corporations, and on their death, in 1875 and
1882, respectively, their interests passed to their children and
grandchildren, who yet are among the principal stockholders
of the concern. During the existence of the firm of I. M.
Singer & Co., and the life of its successor, the New York

OCTOBER TERMT,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

association, the domicil of both was in New York, and after
the creation of the New Jersey corporation that company also
carried on the business through a general office in New York
City.
Machines of various patterns were constructed by the firm
and the corporations, intended both for domestic purposes and
for use in manufacturing. The differences in the arrangement
of varying types of these machines were in some respect essential, and extended to many, but not all, of the mechanical
principles employed, although all the machines were in certain
particulars covered by a few fundamental patents of which
the corporations were owners or licensees. None of the machines, however, were patented as a whole.
The patent to Elias Howe, granted September 10, 1846,
and which remained in force until 1867, covered the use of
the eye pointed needle in combination with a shuttle and
automatic feed. A patent issued to John Bachelder in 1849,
and which remained in force until about 1877, covered the
principle of a continuous feed. The firm of I. M. Singer &
Co. purchased this patent, and it subsequently passed to their
corporate successors.
A third important patent utilized in
the machines was one issued in 1851 to Allen B. Wilson, for
a feeding bar. This extended patent expired in 1872. The
Singer Manufacturing Company became a part owner of this
latter patent.
The use of the patents of Howe and Bachelder were not
confined to the Singer machines, but were employed under
license by manufacturers of other sewing machines, where an
automatic feed was employed.
Nearly one hundred other patents relating to sewing
machine mechanism and attachments to sewing machines
were owned or controlled from time to time by the Singer
firm or its corporate successors, and among those owned by
them were "a vibrating presser, thread guide, binders, embroidery attachments," etc. The use of some of these was
early discontinued, and others have been and are still in
general use by the Singer Company on machines made by it,
and some were used under license by other manufacturers.

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE MI'F'G CO.
Statement of the Case.

Whilst it is true that all the patented inventions owned or
controlled by the Singer Company were not all used on every
type of Singer machine, it is also true that all Singer sewing
machines contained some features of some of these inventions
which to that extent distinguished them from machines made
by others of a similar class. Among the machines made by
the Singer corporation, for general domestic use, was one by
it styled the "Singer New Family Machine."
These Singer "New Family" machines were intended to
take the place of a machine which had theretofore been
known as Old Family and letter A machines, and were first
sold in the spring or winter of 1866. The New Family
machine was essentially different in form and appearance and
in some of the mechanical principles employed, from machines
of other manufacturers used for similar purposes, and formed
a distinctive Singer machine.
Some of its parts were covered by patents. It passed into
very general use, and its sale formed a large part of the business of the corporation.
On the front or top of the arm of the machines made by
the Singer firm was marked the name "I. 31. Singer & Co.,"
and on those constructed by the corporations the words "1The
Singer Mfg. Co." At infrequent periods, prior to 1877, the
successors of I. M. Singer & Co. marked upon various styres
of their machines, sometimes upon the treadle and again on
the arm of the machine, the name "Singer" alone, but even
where this was done the corporate name of the company was
always somewhere affixed to the machines. Some few years
before the Bachelder patent expired the Singer Company
began, in addition to the name of the corporation, as above
stated, to affix to all its sewing machines, of every grade, a
trade-mark, which device consisted of a shuttle, two needles
crossed with a line of cotton in the form of a letter " S ," with
a bobbin underneath. This device was placed in the centre
of an ellipse. Surrounding the upper half of the device were
the words "T H E SINGER MFG. CO., N.Y.," and underneath it were the words "Trade Mark;" beneath those words
a wreath of flowers. This trade-mark was stamped on a brass

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

plate of oval shape, which plate was attached at the base
of the arm of the machine, so as to be readily seen and to be
at once under the eye of a person using or looking at the
machine.
The Bachelder patent expired about 1876, and at once on
the monopoly which it had created coming to an end, the
prices of the Singer machines were very materially reduced,
and competitors sprang into existence, who began to manufacture machines which they called Singer sewing machines.
Controversies arose between the Singer Manufacturing Company and such persons as to the right of the latter to make
machines in the form and appearance of those manufactured
by the Singer Company, and their right to style such
machines Singer machines. In order to more completely
mark the machines made by it, the Singer Company, in 1879,
cast their trade-mark on the side of the legs of the stand of
each machine, and at the time this was done the following
warning was issued:
Warning! To protect the public against the devices of a
swarm of counterfeiters every real Singer Machine is
now being made with our trade-mark cast into the Stand
as in the above cut.
Bfuy Ho Afaohine WiThou It.
The trade-mark was registered in July, 1885.
As already stated, some of the machines made by the
Singer Company before the expiration of the Bachelder and
other patents were sporadically marked Singer in addition
to the name or initials of the firm or corporation and to the
trade-mark. After the expiration of the last of the patents
the Singer corporation changed its method and put the word
"Singer" on the front and rear of the arm of each machine,
unaccompanied with the name of the corporation, except in
so far as it appeared on the trade-mark: At all times, also,
it was the custom of the Singer Company to mark on its
machines the number thereof; these numbers ran consecutively from the beginning, and, therefore, indicated with
substantial accuracy the total number of machines made. In

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Statement of the Case.

addition all the machines, during the life of the various
patents were marked with the numbers of the patents by
which the mechanism was in part covered.
The commencement of the Singer business was small.
Thus in 1851 the firm of I. M. Singer & Co. employed about
twenty-five machinists, and up to that time had only sold
about three hundred machines. The proof shows that the
business was rapidly pushed, agencies were established in all
parts of the world, and the machines became widely known.
In the development of the business the Singer Company constantly advertised their machines as "Singers," and they were
referred to on the bill-heads, circulars, etc., of the company as
"Singers," or Singer sewing machines. The agents of the
company in selling the machines spoke of them as Singer
machines, and the greater part of the business signs in use by
the company and its predecessors at its various offices or
agencies, as also its wagons, cards, letter-heads, bill-heads, etc.,
had upon them the words "Singer Sewing Machines."
The iast increase in the business carried on by the Singer corporation is shown by the fact that in the year 1870, 127,883
Singer machines were sold; in the year 1878, 356,432; whilst
in 1882 the sales aggregated 603,292. Of those sold in the
year 1882, 451,538 were the New Family Machines.
The defendant started in Chicago in 1879 in the business of
manufacturing "sewing machine heads," under the name of
the Standard Manufacturing Company, which company purchased a business theretofore carried on by one Hughes, who
thereupon entered the employ of the Standard Company as
superintendent. A sewing machine head is the mechanical
part of a- sewing machine ready to be attached to a stand.
These heads, thus made, were in all respects similar as to
style and pattern to the "New Family Singer."
For some time its entire product was furnished by the
Standard Company to one H. B. Goodrich of Chicago, a
dealer in sewing machines. In 1880 sales were made to one
or two other dealers, and still other customers were supplied
in 1881. In the month of June, 1881, the name of the corporation was changed to the June Manufacturing Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

In the fall of 1881 that company commenced manufacturing
the stands as well as heads of machines, and sold its machines
direct to dealers throughout the country.
Although the machine heads as stated were in the exact
form and shape of the New Family Singer, they contained no
mark indicating the source of their manufacture, except an
oval brass plate a trifle larger than, but of exactly the same
shape as the one found on the Singer machines, and attached
at the base of the arm in the same position as the SingerCompany placed its plates. Upon this plate the Standard
Company stamped in circular form, around the upper half,
the words "Improved Singer," with the word "Chicago" at
the lower part of the plate, and a monogram, "S. M. Co.,"
with the words "Trade Miark" above such monogram. The
oval plate thus used by the Standard Company continued to
be used by the June Company after the change of name; this
fact being explained by testimony showing that there was a
supply of these plates on hand. When the supply was exhausted, the June Company attached an oval plate of exactly
the same description, except that the monogram was "J. IM.
Co.," and the words "J. Mfg. Co." were placed beneath the
monogram. In both of these plates the words "Improved
Singer" was cast in prominent lines. The June Company
never attempted to register a trade-mark.
On the bed plate of each machine the defendant stamped
or cast a number, and on one of these machines put in evidence by complainant the number was 2,543,707. The president of the defendant company gave as an explanation for
this method of numbering that he merely followed what he
claimed was the custom of other companies, to affix three
additional figures to the actual number of the machines manufactured. When the defendant began to make complete
machines, that is, including stands, it placed on the latter a
device, cast in the legs thereof, in the same relative position
as was the trade-mark device cast in the legs of the stand
which had been adopted by the Singer Company, as heretofore stated, in lieu of the plain style of stand used during the
life of the patents. This device of the defendant consisted of

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE MIF'G CO.
Statement of the Case.

the word "Singer" alone, in very large letters; the word
"I. S." in monogram form above this word "Singer," and
the words "J. Mfg. Co.," in small letters underneath. Concerning this stand, the president of the defendant testified as
follows: "The stand being the most prominent and more generally noticed by the public, we adopted as a device
the word 'Singer' alone, which, never to our knowledge, had
been used by the Singer Manufacturing Company, with the
letters IJ. Mfg. Co.' under it, and the large letters 'I. S.' in
monogram over it." At the time when the right to make
Singer machines vested in the public, the complainant also
used a device for regulating the tension, called a tension screw,
which it placed upon the top of the face plate of its machines.
This improvement continued, however, to be protected by a
patent. In precisely the same position upon its machines,
the June Company placed a "dummy" screw.
The defendant advertised its machines extensively and also
issued many circulars concerning them, and furnished with
their machines a printed warranty. Their machines were referred to as the "Improved Singer Sewing Machine," "June
Improved Singer Sewing Machine," "Genuine Improved Singer," " The Improved Singer," "High Grade Singer Sewing
Machines," "Improved Singer New Family Sewing Machine,"
and "The New Greatly Improved Singer Sewing Machine;"
but all the circulars offered in evidence contained substantially
the statement that the machines referred to in them were
manufactured by the June Manufacturing Company.
After hearing there was a decree dismissing the bill for
want of equity, the court below substantially concluding,
first, that the sewing machine in the form made by the defendant was public property, and therefore no infringement
of the rights of the complainant had resulted from its use;
second, that the name "Singer" was also public property, and
hence no legal injury was caused to the complainant by the
use of the name in the manner and form in which it was employed by the defendant; third, that the defendant had not
imitated the trade-mark of the complainant. The opinion is
reported in 41 Fed. Rep. 208.
VOL. cLxm-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. Lawrence -Maxwell, Jr., and -Mr. Charles .. Offeld for
appellant.
Mr'. John G. B,liott and -Mr. William, Henry Browne for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WRITE, after stating the foregoing facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts recapitulated in the statement just made are undisputed. Those which are seriously controverted and upon
which the legal issues depend are, first, were the sewing machines made by the Singer Company so, in whole or in part,
protected by patents as to cause the name "Singer" to become,
during the existence of the monopoly, the generic designation
of such machines, as contradistinguished from a name indicating exclusively the source or origin of their manufacture;
second, irrespective of the question of patent, was the name
"Singer," by the consent and acquiescence of Singer himself
and that of the Singer Company, voluntarily used as a generic
designation of the class and character of machines manufactured by I. M. Singer & Co. or the Singer Manufacturing Company, so that in consequence of this voluntary action the
name became the generic designation of the machines or was
the name solely used by the company as a trade name, a trademark, or one exclusively indicating machines made by I. M.
Singer & Co. or the Singer Manufacturing Company?
We will consider these two controverted propositions of
facts separately. Before doing so we deem it well to say
that on both these questions there are many conflicting and
confusing statements, in the record, adduced by both parties.
Whatever may be their merit, they are not testimony in the
proper sense of the word, being rather the expression of the
opinion of the witnesses than substantive proof of existing
facts. And the testimony of this character in favor of the
respective parties, if allowed all possible weight, produces no
affirmative result, since it is equally as strong by way of opinion on one side as it is upon the other. We shall, therefore,
rest our conclusions on a consideration of the facts themselves,

SINGER

'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

rather than upon the conflicting and irreconcilable opinions
of witnesses.
Firdt. It cannot be denied that the Singer machines were
covered by patents, some of which were fundamental, some
merely accessory. There can also be no doubt that the necessary result of the existence of these patents was to give to
the Singer machines, as a whole, a distinctive character and
form which caused them to be known as Singer machines, as
deviating and separable from the form and character of machines made by other manufacturers. This conclusion is not
shaken by the contention that as many different machines
were made by the Singer Manufacturing Company, therefore
it was impossible for the name "Singer" to describe them all,
because the same designation could not possibly have indicated many different and distinct things. The fallacy in the
argument lies in failing to distinguish between genus and
species. To say that various types of sewing machines were
made by the Singer Manufacturing Company in no way meets
the view, borne out by the testimony, that all machines by
them constructed were in some particular so made as to cause
them all to be embraced under the generic head of Singer,
and to be protected in some respects by the patents held by
the company. From this fact it resulted that during the life
of the patents none of the machines as a whole were open
to public competition. Persuasive support of this view is
afforded by the fact that in many adjudicated cases, to which
we shall have occasion hereafter to advert, where, since the
expiration of the patents the right to the exclusive use of the
name "Singer" has been asserted, it has, almost without exception, been found that Singer machines, as a whole, were a
distinctive class, preserving a general uniformity of nature
however varying may have been the types by which their
structure was manifested.
It may be assumed that the proof establishes that for certain classes of the general type of Singer machines, that is,
the species used only for particular and exceptional manufacturing purposes, an addition of some other word or description
to the generic name "Singer" was necessary to completely

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

convey a perfect indication of the machine referred to, that
is, Singer "carpet machine," Singer "leather machine," etc.
But this fact does not counter-balance the conclusive proof
that, as a whole, the Singer machines represented a general
class, and were known to the public under that comprehensive
name and no other. Indeed, any probative force which might
result from the fact that, as to a particular class of Singer
machines, some additional word may have been essential to a
perfect designation bears no relation to the variety of the
machine which the defendant is averred to have unlawfully
imitated. That machine known as the "New Family," intended for general domestic purposes, constituted the larger
part of the enormous output of the Singer companies. It was
of a uniform type and had no other possible designation, in
the mind of the general public, other than the word "Singer."
The foregoing views find conclusive support from the unquestioned fact that upon the expiration of the patents held by
the Singer Company the price of the machines, made by that
company, fell enormously in amount. Thus to adopt the
theory advanced by the complainant we should have to deny
the inevitable law of cause and effect.
Abundant corroborative proof that the word "Singer"
became generically descriptive of the machines manufactured
by the Singer Company is afforded by the conduct of that
company. From the beginning every machine made by it
had conspicuously marked on it the name of the manufacturer, "I. AT. Singer & Co." or the "Singer Mfg. Co.;" only
occasionally was the word "Singer" alone attached to any
of the machines. This continued until the technical trademark came into play, which was about the time the patents
expired. After this the trade-mark was affixed to the machines, and the name of the manufacturer, except as indicated
by the trade-mark, disappeared, and was regularly supplanted
by the word "Singer" alone. The trade-mark then adopted
could not have been essential to designate the source of manufacture, since from the inception the company had subserved
that purpose by marking the name of the firm or corporation
plainly upon the machines. The omission of the name, indi-

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

eating the origin of manufacture and the substitution of the
word "Singer," just before the expiration of the patents, suggest a coincident relation of purpose which is not explained
by any testimony in the record. This coincidence between
the expiration of the patents and the appearance of the trademark on the machines and the use of the word "Singer"
alone tends to create a strong implication that the company,
with the knowledge that the patents, which covered their
machines, were about to expire substituted the trade-mark
for the plain designation of the source of manufacture theretofore continuously used and added the word "Singer," which
had become the designation by which the public knew the
machine, as a distinctive and separate mark, in order thereby
to retain in the possession of the company the real fruits of
the monopoly when that monopoly had passed away.
econd. Irrespective of the patents and the designative
significance of the word "Singer," which arose during their
life, the proof also clearly establishes that the word "Singer"
was adopted by I. M. Singer & Co., or the Singer Manufacturing Company, in their dealings with the general public,
as designative of their distinctive style of machines rather
than as solely indicating the origin of manufacture. This
is demonstrated by the fact that at the inception of the
manufacture of the machines the word "Singer" alone was
not used on them. The general method then adopted to
indicate the source of the manufacture was to mark conspicuously on the machines the name of the firm or corporation. The name "Singer" alone was used by the company
on signs, on wagons, on advertisements, on bill-heads, accompanied with the name of the firm or corporation. This could
have had no other purpose than to denote to the public the
corporation's understanding of the general name of the machines made by it. There is no proof that the name thus
adopted by the corporation did not subserve this contemplated
purpose of designating all the machines of whatever type, or
that its inadequacy compelled the corporation to add to it, in
particular cases, the word "carpet" or "leather" to describe
machines intended for other than general domestic use. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

conduct of the company in adopting the trade-mark and first
affixing the name at the time of the expiration of the patents,
to which we have already adverted, is also of great significance in considering the question of the voluntary previous
selection by the corporation of the word "Singer" as a designation.
But the proof renders it unnecessary to base our conclusions
upon the deductions to which we have just referred, since it
contains affirmative testimony as to the purpose of I. M.
Singer & Co., or the Singer Manufacturing Company, in
their general use of the word "Singer."
William F. Proctor was sworn for the complainant, and his
relations with the Singer Company are shown by the following excerpts from his testimony:
"Q. State in detail what connection you have had with the
sewing machine business.
"A. I have been connected with the manufacture of sewing machines since 1853 up to the present time. I have been
engaged in various capacities, first as a machinist with I. M.
Singer & Co. I afterwards went to France for them for the
sale of a patent, and established a manufactory of machines
there. Since the Singer Manufacturing Company has become
established I have been a director since its origin and an officer
in various capacities, and am now its vice-president."
Continuing his examination-in-chief, the following questions
were asked this witness:
"Q. 72. For what purpose and for what object was the
name 'Singer' marked upon the machines of the complainant
and its predecessors, and applied to them in advertising
them?
"Objected to by defendant's counsel as being merely accumulative and irrelevant to the issue.
"A. To designate them and after the formation of the
company to gratify the desire of Mr. Singer to perpetuate
his name associated with the machine.
"Q. 73. State what you mean by designating them.
"A. As a Singer machine.
"Q. 74. State whether the name was continued by the

SINGER -'F'G

CO. v. JUNE M F'G CO.

Opinion of the Court.

corporate successors of the firm for any other reason than to
gratify the desire of Mr. Singer.
"Objected to as suggesting the answer the witness is to
make.
"A. It was to continue the name."
It is true that this conclusive statement, made by the vicepresident of the company, is followed in the continuation of
his testimony by several leading questions, which could not
have failed to suggest to him that it was desired that the
statement thus made should be materially qualified. But
the result of this effort to lead the witness rather strengthens
than weakens the force of the testimony just quoted.
We conclude, then, upon the two pivotal and controverted
questions of fact, which we proposed at the outset to consider 1st. That the Singer sewing machines were covered by
patents which gave to the manufacturers a substantial monopoly; that in consequence of the enjoyment of this monopoly
by the makers, the name "Singer" came to indicate, in its primary sense, to the public, the class and type of machines made
by the Singer Company or corporations, and thus this name
constituted their generic description; that also as this name
applied to and described machines made alone by the Singer
firm or corporations, the use also came in a secondary sense
to convey to the public mind the machines made by the firm
or corporations.
2d. That the word "Singer" was also voluntarily applied by
the Singer firm or companies as a designation of the general
type of machines made by them, with the intention that such
machines shouldbe accepted by the public under that name ;
thus the course of the business and the purposes for which the
name " Singer" was used brought about results identical with
those which sprang from the existence of the monopoly, hence
that name became not only the description of the machines,
but also, in a subordinate sense, the indication of the source
of manufacture.
The case, as stated by the appellant in the pleadings and in
the argument, fails to discriminate between distinct and dif-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ferent causes of action. The right to relief arising from the
wrongful use by the defendant of a specific trade-mark and
from the illegal use of a trade name, and also acts asserted to
have been done by him which would justify the relief commonly accorded where unfair competition in business has been
carried on, are commingled and treated as one. Avoiding,
for the sake of brevity, a statement of the elementary grounds
upon which rest the law of specific trade-mark, of trade name
or of unfair competition in business, and the distinction between them, it is sufficient to say that all the relief which
complainant seeks is necessarily embraced in the following
classification :
1st. Unfair competition in business, resulting from the form
in which the defendant makes its machines, and also from
the employment by it of the word "Singer" in connection
with the marks and devices on the machines, and the use of
the same name in circulars and -advertisements; 2d, the alleged violation of the specific trade-mark of the complainant
by the devices found on defendant's machines and by the use
We will examine these contentions.
of the word "Singer."
1st. U ?fair competition, in business, resulting from the
form in which the defendant makes his machines, and also
from the use made by him of the word "Singer" in connection
with the marks and devices on his machines, and the use of the
same in c rcularsand advertisements.
This question subdivides itself into two inquiries: Where
the name of a patented machine, whether it be an arbitrary
one or the surname of the inventor or manufacturer, has become during the monopoly, flowing from the patent, a generic
description of such machine, and at the same time in a secondary and relative sense indicates to the public the source of
manufacture, has the manufacturer, on the cessation of the
monopoly, the right to prevent the making by another of a
like machine in the form in which it was made during the
life of the patents, and has he also a right to prevent another
from calling such machines, by him made, by the generic
name attributed to them during the monopoly, and from placing this name on them, and using it in advertisements, in cir-

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

culars, and generally for such purposes as his interest may
suggest? If no right exist in the original manufacturer to
prevent another, under the foregoing circumstances, from
making machines of like form and structure and using the
name, under the conditions stated, does the one who so
makes and uses or sells them enjoy the liberty without any
resulting duty whatever, or is it accompanied with the obligation of so exercising the right as not to destroy the property of others, and also in such a manner as not to deceive
the public?
It is self evident that on the expiration of a patent the monopoly created by it ceases to exist, and the right to make the
thing formerly covered by the patent becomes public property. It is upon this condition that the patent is granted.
It follows, as a matter of course, that on the termination of
the patent there passes to the public the right to make the
machine in the form in which it was constructed during the
patent. We may, therefore, dismiss without further comment
the complaint, as to the form in which the defendant made
his machines. It equally follows from the cessation of the
monopoly and the falling of the patented device into the domain of things public, that along with the public ownership
of the device there must also necessarily pass to the public the
generic designation of the thing which has arisen during the
monopoly, in consequence of the designation having been
acquiesced in by the owner, either tacitly, by accepting the
benefits of the monopoly, or expressly by his having so connected the name with the machine as to lend countenance to
the resulting dedication. To say otherwise would be to hold
that although the public had acquired the device covered by
the patent, yet the owner of the patent or the manufacturer
of the patented thing had retained the designated name which
was essentially necessary to vest the public with the full
enjoyment of that which had become theirs by the disappearance of the monopoly. In other words, that the patentee or
manufacturer could take the benefit and advantage of the
patent upon the condition that at its termination the monopoly should cease, and yet when the end was reached disregard

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the public dedication and practically perpetuate indefinitely
an exclusive right.
The public having the right on the expiration of the patent
to make the patented article and to use its generic name, to
restrict this use, either by preventing its being placed upon
the articles when manufactured, or by using it in advertisements or circulars, would be to admit the right and at the
same time destroy it. It follows, then, that the right to use
the name in every form passes to the public with the dedication resulting from the expiration of the patent.
Nor is this right governed by different principles where the
name which has become generic, instead of being an arbitrary
one, is the surname of the patentee or original manufacturer.
It is elementary that there is a right of property in a name
which the courts will protect. But this right, like the right
to an arbitrary mark or any other, may become public property by dedication or abandonment. The latter is defined by
De LMaragy, in his International Dictionary of Industrial
Property, as follows:
"Abandonment in industrial property is an act by which
the public domain originally enters or reenters into the possession of the thing, (commercial name, mark or sign,) by the
will of the legitimate owner. The essential condition to constitute abandonment is, that the one having a right should
consent to the dispossession. Outside of this there can be nodedication of the right, because there cannot be abandonment
in the juridical sense of the word."
But it does not follow, as a consequence of a dedication, that
the general power, vested in the public, to make the machineand use the name imports that there is no duty imposed, on
the one using it, to adopt such precautions as will protect the.
property of others and prevent injury to the public interest,
if by doing so no substantial restriction is imposed on the
right of freedom of use. This principle is elementary and
applies to every form of right, and is generally expressed by
the aphorism 8ic utere tuo ut alienum -non lcrdas. This quali-

fication results from the same principle upon which the dedication rests, that is, a regard for the interest of the public and
the rights of individuals.

SINGER M'F'G CO. V. JUNE M I'FG CO.
Opinion of the Court.

It is obvious that if the name dedicated to the public, either
as a consequence of the monopoly or by the voluntary act of
the party, has a twofold significance, one generic and the other
pointing to the origin of manufacture and the name is
availed of by another without clearly indicating that the machine, upon which the name is marked, is made by him, then
the right to use the name because of its generic signification,
would imply a power to destroy any good will which belonged
to the original maker. It would import, not only this, but
also the unrestrained right to deceive and defraud the public
by so using the name as to delude them into believing that
the machine made by one person was made by another.
To say that a person who has manufactured machines under
a patented monopoly can acquire no good will, by the excellence of his work, or the development of his business, during
the patent, would be to seriously ignore rights of private property, and would be against public policy, since it would deprive the one enjoying the patent of all incentive to make a
machine of a good quality, because at its termination all the
reputation or good will resulting from meritorious work would
be subject to appropriation by every one. On the other hand,
to compel the one who uses the name after the expiration of
the patent, to indicate that the articles are made by himself,
in no way impairs the right of use, but simply regulates and
prevents wrong to individuals and injury to the public.
This fact is fully recognized by the well settled doctrine
which holds that although "every one has the absolute right
to use his own name honestly in his own business, even though
he may thereby incidentally interfere with and injure the business of another having the same name. In such case the
inconvenience or loss to which those having a common right
are subjected is damnum a8s.que injuria. But although he
may thus use his name, he cannot resort to any artifice or
do any act calculated to mislead the public as to the identity
of the business firm or establishment, or of the article produced by them, and thus produce injury to the other beyond
that which results from the similarity of name." R8ia
Cement Comjany v. Le Page, 14:7 Mass. 206, 208; Pillsury

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Pillsbary,24 U. S. App. 395, 404; Croft v. Day, 7 Beavan,
84; Hlolloway v. Holloway, 13 Beavan, 209; Wotherspoon
v. Currie,L. R. 5 H. L. 508; Montgomery v. Thompson, (1891,)
App. Cas. 217; Howard v. Henriques, 3 Sandf. IN.Y. 725;
.Meneely v. -Meneely, 62 N. Y. 427 ; Lawrence -Manufacturing
Company v. Tennessee Manufacturing Company, 138 U. S. 537;
Brown Chemical Company v. -Meyer, 139 U. S. 540; Coats v.
.errice Thread Company, 149 U. S. 562. Where the name
is one which has previously thereto come to indicate the source
of manufacture of particular devices, the use of such name by
another, unaccompanied with any precaution or indication, in
itself amounts to an artifice calculated to produce the deception alluded to in the foregoing adjudications.
Indeed, the enforcement of the right of the public to use a
generic name, dedicated as the results of a monopoly, has
always, where the facts required it, gone hand in hand
with the necessary regulation to make it accord with the
private property of others and the requirements of public
policy. The courts have always, in every such case without
exception, treated the one as the co-relative or resultant of
the other.
In -Fairbanksv. Jacobus, 14 Blatchford, 337, (1877,) it was
sought to restrain the defendant from making or selling an
imitation of Fairbanks' scales and from casting the words
"'Fairbanks' patent" upon scales so made in imitation of
scales of the manufacture of the complainant, Johnson, J.,
held (p. 341) that by reason of the expiration of the patents,
under which plaintiff manufactured his scales, there was not,
in the acts complained of, any invasion of the plaintiff's rights.
The court said:
"Certainly, if the words ' Fairbanks' patent' do not mean
to assert the existence of a patent securing the scales, but only
that they are made in conformity with, and embody the invention of, the expired Fairbanks' patent, they are free to all
the world. What is not free is to pretend that a scale is made
by one person, which is, in fact, made by another."
In Singer .fg. Co. v. Larsen, 8 Bissell, 151, (1878,) it was
sought to restrain the defendant from the use of the name

SINGER M1'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"Singer" in connection with machines manufactured or sold
by him. Drummond, J., observed (p. 152):
"On a machine called ' the Singer Sewing Machine' there
were various patents. These patents have all expired, and
nothing can, therefore, be claimed under them. Other persons
cannot be prevented from manufacturing a machine like the
Singer sewing machine, and which may be called, to distinguish it from other machines, ' Singer's Sewing Machine.' If
a sewing machine has acquired a name which designates a
mechanism or a peculiar construction, parts of which are protected by patents, other persons, after the expiration of the
patents, have the right to construct the machine and call it by
that name, because that only expresses the kind and quality
of the machine."
But in upholding the right a duty was also enjoined, the
court adding (p. 153):
"While I hold that the defendant is not prevented from
constructing a 'Singer Sewing Machine,' still, he cannot be
permitted to do any act the necessary effect of which will be
to intimate, or to make any one believe that the machine
which he constructs and sells is manufactured by the plaintiff.
Neither has he the right to use any device which may be
properly considered a trade-mark, so as to induce the public to
believe that his machine has been manufactured by the plaintiff; and, therefore, I shall modify the injunction in this case
by simply requiring the defendant to refrain from selling any
Singer sewing machines manufactured by any person or company other than the plaintiff, without indicating in some distinct manner that the said machines were not manufactured
by the Singer Manufacturing Company."
In Singer .Mfg. Co. v. Stanage, 6 Fed. Rep. 279, (1881,)
Treat, district judge, said (p. 280):
"The plaintiff and its predecessors had, in connection with
others, through patents, a monopoly as to certain sewing machines, known as the ' Singer machines.' When these patents
expired every one had an equal right to make and vend such
machines. If the patentees or their assignees could assert
successfully an exclusive right to the name 'Singer' as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

trade-mark, they would practically extend the patent indefinitely."
The court entered into no discussion of the limitations resting on a party in the use of a name or designation dedicated
to public use, because the facts rendered it unnecessary, the
court saying (p. 282):
"Sixth. The distinctive names and devices of the plaintiff
corporation were not used by the defendant, and no one of
ordinary intelligence could suppose that the ' Stewart' manufacture was the manufacture of the plaintiff. Each had its
distinctive and detailed names and- devices, so that there was
no probability that the machine made by one would be mistaken for the manufacture of the other."
In Singer Mfg. Co. v. Riley, 11 Fed. Rep. 'TO6, (1882,) where
a suit was brought to restrain the use of the word "Singer"
by the defendant in connection with sewing machines, the
preliminary injunction was refused, following the decision in
the Sttnage case. The court called attention to the fact that
the word "Singer" was not used on defendant's machines. It
made no ruling as to the duty of the defendant to so use the
name "Singer" as not to deceive, because it found that the defendant's devices were not calculated to mislead.
In Brill v. Singer .Xfg. Co., 41 Ohio St. 127, (1884,) it was
held (pp. 137, et seq.) that as Singer machines had been protected by patents and during the existence of such patents
became known and identified in the trade by their shape,
external appearance or ornamentation, the patentee could
not, after the expiration of the patent, prevent others from
using the same modes of identification, in machines of the
same kind, manufactured and sold by them. It was also held
that the Singer machines had become known to the public by
a distinctive name during the existence of the patent, and that
any one at the expiration of the patent might make and vend
such machines and use such name.
It would appear that the name "Singer" had not been, directly or indirectly, marked upon the machines. It might also
be inferred from the report of the case that the designation of
defendant's machine was accompanied by a statement as to

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

who was the manufacturer. At all events, the court did not
discuss the obligation of the defendant to avoid misleading,
since, under the facts, the question did not arise.
In Gally v. Co18 Paent .irearms .Mfg. Co., 30 Fed. Rep.
118, (1887,) it was held that the name "Universal," applied by
a patentee to his patented printing press, upon the expiration
of the patent could not be appropriated by the inventor as
a trade-mark, Shipman, J., said (p. 122):
"Any manufacturer, who uses the name now, does so to
show that he manufactures the Gaily press, which he may
rightfully do, and does not represent to the public that it
is getting any skill or excellence of workmanship which Gally
possessed, and does not induce it to believe that the presses are
manufactured by the plaintiff."
The machines manufactured by the defendant, upon which
was stamped the name "Universal," also bore the name of
their maker.
.Memr-am v. Holloway Pub. Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 450, (1890,) involved the right of the defendants to use the words "Webster's
Dictionary" in connection with a reprint of the 1847 edition
of that work upon which the copyright had expired. Mr. Justice Miller, in the opinion delivered by him, said (p. 451):
"I want to say, however, with reference to the main issue
in the case, that it occurs to me that this proceeding is an
attempt to establish the doctrine that a party who has had
the copyright of a book until it has expired, may continue
that monopoly indefinitely, under the pretence that it is protected by a trade-mark, or something of that sort. I do not
believe in any such doctrine, nor do my associates. When
a man takes out a copyright for any of his writings or works,
he impliedly agrees that, at the expiration of that copyright,
such writings or works shall go to the public and become
public property. I may be the first to announce that doctrine, but I announce it without any hesitation. If a man is
entitled to an extension of his copyright, he may obtain it
by the mode pointed out by law. The law provides a method
of obtaining such extension. The copyright law gives an
author or proprietor a monopoly of the sale of his writings

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

for a definite period, but the grant of a monopoly implies
that, after the monopoly has expired, the public shall be
entitled ever afterwards to the unrestricted use of the book."
And the justice further observed (p. 452):
'"The contention that complainants have any special property in ' Webster's Dictionary' is all nonsense, since the copyright has expired. What do they mean by the expression
' their book,' when they speak of Webster's Dictionary? It
may be their book if they have bought it, as a copy of Webster's Dictionary is my book if I have bought it. But in no
other sense than that last indicated can the complainants say
of Webster's Dictionary that it is their book."
Although the right to use the words was thus adjudged,
the duty not to deceive by the method of their employment
was upheld and enforced, the court saying (p. 451):
"Now, taking all these allegations together, there may be
some evidence of a fraudulent intent on defendants' part to
get the benefit of the reputation of the edition of Webster's
Dictionary which the complainants are publishing, and it may
possibly be that, in consequence of the facts averred, the public are deceived and that the complainants are damaged to
some extent. We think, therefore, that this is one of those
cases where, as the facts are stated in the complaint, the interests of justice would be best subserved by requiring the
defendants to answer, so that there may be a full and fair
investigation of the law and facts upon a final hearing."
In .Merriamv. Famous Sioe c& Clothing Co., 47 Fed. Rep.
411, a ruling similar to that announced by Mr. Justice Miller
was made. But although the right to use the word "Webster's Dictionary" was sustained, the obligation to so use as
not to mislead was again stated, Thayer, J., saying (p. 414):
"It is unnecessary at this time to determine what form of
relief should be administered, if the allegations of the bill are
proven on final hearing. It may be that some change in the
form of defendant's circulars and advertisements will be all
the relief that the circumstances of the case fairly warrant;
or it may be that the proof will warrant an order that the
defendant place a notice in their book that it is a reprint

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

of the edition of 1847 of Webster's Dictionary, with such
additions as they may have made to it. This is a matter,
however, to be considered on final hearing, when the exact
nature -of the injury and the causes that mislead the public,
are ascertained. It is sufficient to say at present that, on the
showing made, the complainants are entitled to relief, and the
demurrer to the bill is accordingly overruled."
The principles thus maintained by the American cases are
also supported by the English decisions.
In Wheeler & Wil8on .Mfg. Co. v. Shake8pear, 39 L. J. Ch.
36, (1869,) Vice-Chancellor James refused to enjoin the use
of the name of Wheeler & Wilson as a designation in advertisements of machines dealt in by the defendant. The advertisements of the defendant clearly indicated, however, that
the machines in question were not manufactured by the plaintiffs. He said (p. 40):
"I could not restrain the defendant from using the words
'Wheeler & Wilson' as descriptive of any sewing machine
other than the sewing machine manufactured by the plaintiffs.
It appeared to me that 'Wheeler & Wilson' was really not
the name of the manufacturer or the name of the company,
either abbreviated or otherwise, but the name of the thing
in particular. As the plaintiff's bill represents it, it is called
' The Wheeler & Wilson Sewing Machine,' and there being
no other designation for this particular machine, one can
easily understand that that was the name of the patentee or
the person who at one time bad the patent, for I take it that
Wheeler & Wilson are not really the patentees' names, because
the allegation in the bill is that they became entitled to the
letters-patent. It seems to me that the name 'Wheeler &
Wilson ' machine has come to signify the thing manufactured
according to the principle of that patent. That being so, I
cannot restrain anybody, after the expiration, of the patent,
from representing his article as being the article which was so
patented. A man cannot prolong his monopoly by saying I
have got a trade-mark in the name of a thing which was the
subject of the patent,' and, therefore, to that extent I think
the plaintiffs are not entitled to the relief they ask."
VOL. CLX=-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

In CUavin v. Walker, 5 Ch. Div. 850, (1877,) it was held
that the trade-mark or label of the defendant, which fully
stated that a filter to which it was attached, upon which the
patent had expired, was made by him, did not infringe the
trade-mark or label of the complainant, who had succeeded
to the rights of the original patentee. In the Court of
Appeals James, L. J., said (p. 863):
"It is clear that on the expiration of this patent it was
open to all the world to manufacture the article which had
been patented; that is the consideration which the inventor
gives for the patent; the invention becomes then entirely
publici juris. The plaintiff, and also the defendants, had* a
right to tell the world that they were making the article according to the expired patent, and both parties have done
this. It is impossible to allow a man to prolong his monopoly
by trying to turn a description of the article into a trademark. Whatever is mere description is open to all the world.
In the present case the plaintiff's label was nothing more than
a description, and he cannot, therefore, have protection for it
as a trade-mark."
Bagalley, L. J., said (p. 865):
"The Vice-Chancellor thought that the words ' Cheavin's
patent' were calculated to deceive the public. But 'C heavin's
patent' is a correct description of the principle according to
which the article was made, and there follows a distinct statement that it was manufactured by Walker, Brightman & Co.
Therefore on this ground also the case made by the plaintiff's
claim fails."
In Linoleum Mfg. Co. v. -Yairn,7 Ch. Div. 834, (1878,) where
the right to the exclusive use of the word "Linoleum" was
asserted, the substance to which the name was attached having been covered by patents which had expired, Fry, J., said

(p. 836):
"In the first place, the plaintiffs have alleged, and Mr.
Walton has sworn, that having invented a new substance,
namely, the solidified or oxidized oil, he gave to it the name
of 'Linoleum,' and it does not appear that any other name
has ever been given to this substance. It appears that the

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE

I'F'G CO.

Opinion of the Court.

defendants are now minded to make, as it is admitted
they may make, that substance. I want to know what they
are to call it. That is a question I have asked, but I have received no answer; and for this simple reason, that no answer
could be given, except that they must invent a new name. I
do not take that to be the law. I think that if ' Linoleum '
means a substance which may be made by the defendants, the
defendants may sell it by the name which that substance
bears.
"In my opinion it would be extremely difficult for a person
who has been by right of some monopoly the sole manufacturer of a new article, and has given a new name to the new
article, meaning that new article and nothing more, to claim
that the name is to be attributed to his manufacture alone
after his competitors are at liberty to make the same article."
As the article manufactured by the defendant was clearly
marked with the source of manufacture, the case was not one
requiring the enforcement of the duty to designate the origin
of the manufacture, but the court also said (p. 837):
"If I found they were attempting to use that name in connection with other parts of the trade-mark, so as to make it
appear that the oxidized oil made by the defendants was
made by the plaintiffs, of course the case would be entirely
different.
"It appears to me, therefore, that there has been neither
infringement of any essential part of the plaintiffs' trade-mark
nor any attempt on the part of the defendants to represent
the goods which they intended to sell as goods made by the
plaintiffs." (p. 838.)
Nor is there anything in the Scotch case of the Singer XAtfg.
Co. v. Kimball & .Morton, 11 Ct. Sess. 3d s. 267, or the English
cases of Singer Machine Xtfanufacturers V. ilson, 3 App.
Cas. 376 ; 2 Ch. Div. 434; and Singer .fg. Co. v. loog, 8
App. Cas. 15, and 18 Ch' Div. 395; which in any way contravenes the doctrines heretofore stated. In the Kimball case,
the fact that there had been no patents in England was expressly referred to, the court finding that for many years
prior to 1870 machines like Singer machines had been manu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court,

factured under various names in England and Scotland by
other parties than the Singer Company. It was upon these
facts that the court based the right of the Singer Company
to an exclusive trade-mark in the name. Indeed, Lord Ardmillon (p. 276) expressly declared that he regarded the facts,
above stated, as distinguishing the case from the Shakeapear
cee, supra.
This distinction is also true of Singer
Co. v. Wileon,
Cg.
and Singer Mfg. Co. v. Loog. In neither was there a claim
of a generic description as a consequence of a monopoly, and
it becomes, therefore, needless to review these cases at length.
It may, however, be said that both these cases recognize the
right of a party in his advertising matter to state that his machines were constructed upon the Singer system or model.
The contention advanced by the complainant that his right
to the exclusive use in the name "Singer," after the expiration
of the patents, although that name became the generic description of the machines during the monopoly, is in accord
with the law of France, is without foundation. On the contrary, the French writers and courts recognize the doctrine
to be substantially like that which is enforced in America
and England. Braun, Marques de Fabrique, sec. 68, p. 232,
says:
"The question is not whether an inventor can attribute to
his patented invention a particular designation which remains
the exclusive property of the patentee by the same title and
for as long a time as the invention itself. This is evident, for
without this right existing in the patentee his patent would
be in certain respects illusory. But at the expiration of the
patent does the designation fall into the public domain with
the patented invention? Does the patented thing lose the
right to be solely individualized in favor of the inventor by
the desigfiation which up to that time has served as its mark.
Three theories present themselves."
After fully stating these three different points of view the
author adds:
"To resume, the three systems may be formulated as follows: 1st. The designation of the thing patented becomes

SINGER 'M'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

public property on the expiration of the patent. 2d. The
patentee retains in every case the sole use to the designation,
after the expiration of his monopoly, if he had deposited the
name" (as a legal trade-mark) "before the expiration of the
patent. 3d. The designation continues to belong to the patentee in every case but one, if the name given to the product
has become the only and necessary designation of the patented
article. We think there can be no hesitation in pronouncing
in favor of the third proposition, except, however, that it requires to be completed by a second exception, which is
that the name is also public property if in the interval which
has elapsed between the expiration of the patent and the
deposit of the trade-mark the inventor has allowed the designation to become public property."
Pouillet, Brevets d'Invention, Nos. 327, 328, pp. 278, 279,
reviews the opinions of the commentators and the decisions
of the courts as follows:
"The expiration of a patent has for its natural effect to
permit every one to make and sell the object patented; and
it has also for effect to authorize every one to sell it by the
designation given it by the inventor, but upon the condition
in every case not, in so doing, to carry on unfair competition
in business" (Concurrence De Loyal) "against him. Without
this, say Pecard & Olin, the monopoly would be indefinitely
prolonged, because, in commerce one could not recognize the
thing produced by the invention under any other designation
than that given during the life of the patent. However, the
question is not without difficulty, when the name of the inventor enters into the designation of the product,

.

.

.

in

such case the courts should not allow third persons to employ
the name of the inventor, but with extreme caution and by
taking the most rigorous measures to prevent a confusion as
to the origin of the product, of which it would be very easy
to abuse. It has been adjudged conformably to these principles, (Paris, 20th of January, 1844, Trib. comm.; Seine, 22d
of December, 1853, Trib. comm.; Seine, 28th of July, 1853.)
1st. That the denomination under which a patented article
is designated by the inventor falls into the public domain at.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895."
Opinion of the Court.

the same time as the invention, at least when this denomination has been drawn from common language and does not
reproduce the name of the inventor himself, nevertheless
the right to announce the product under the same denomination affixed to it by the inventor, does not go to the extent of
allowing its sale with the plates or stamps or metallic paper,
or tickets, or the manner of securing it, or the envelopes or
form or color analogous to that used in such a way as to cause
appearances of deception. (Nancy, 7th of July, 1854, Verly,
Sir., 1855, 2 vol. 581.) 2d. That when an invention falls into
the public domain, it enters with the name which the inventor
has given it, and he cannot prevent a person from employing
this designation; thus, the inventor of the 'harmonium' was
not allowed after the expiration of his patent to prevent others
from making this instrument and selling it under the name
which had been given to it. (Paris, 30th December, 1859,
Pattaille, 1859, 414.) 3d. That the patented invention falling into the public domain can be advertised and sold by the
designation given to it by the inventor, even when the name
of this last person figures therein. If by usage and by the
act of the inventor his name has become the necessary element
to designate the product, it is essential, however, that the competitors of the inventor avoid all confusion which can induce
the public into error as to the origin of the products." (Cassation, 31st of January, 1860, Charpentier.)
The same author again says:
"In principle, a surname is inalienable and each one keeps
the imprescriptible ownership in it. We know, however, that
when the name of the inventor has become the designation of
the thing patented, it belongs to every one, at the expiration
of the patent, to make use of this designation." (Pouillet,
Brevets d'Invention, see. 329, p. 280.)
The French decision mainly relied on, by the plaintiff in
error, is that relating to the use of the surname Bully in a
toilet preparation known as the "Vinegar of Bully," but the
facts upon which the case was decided are misapprehended.
In that case the sole question was whether the surname
"Bully" had been either expressly or tacitly dedicated, by

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

him, to the public oy connecting it with his preparation. The
Court of Cassation rested its decree upon the finding of fact
by the court below, which was conclusive on it, that no such
association of the name, by either the express or tacit consent
of Bully, had ever taken place. We excerpt, briefly, the
language of the Court of Cassation as reported in the Dictionary of De Marafy, vol. 1, p. 11:
"Whereas, without doubt, the methods of manufacture of a.
patented product fall into the public domain after the expiration of the patent, but it is otherwise as to the name of the
inventor, and that this rule suffers no exception, except in
the case where, either by long usage or in consequence of a
consent either expressly or tacitly given by the inventor, his
surname having become the sole usual designation of his invention, it is employed to indicate the mode or the system of
manufacture and not the origin of the particular manufacture.
"Whereas, it is declared by the judgment appealed from,
that Claude Bully has never manifested an intention to indissolubly bind up or unite his name for the benefit of his invention," etc., etc.
And the same distinction controlled the case of Howe,
where the French courts enjoined the use of that name on
a sewing machine. There the court, as a basis of its decree,
used the following language: "And whereas, they [Howe
and his heirs] did not take patents in France for the invention
and their improvements, which have therefore fallen into the
public domain," and have "never, either expressly or tacitly,
abandoned the right to affix his name" (that of Howe) "to
the products of the invention."
The result, then, of the American, the English and the
French doctrine universally upheld is this, that where, during the life of a monopoly created by a patent, a name,
whether it be arbitrary or be that of the inventor, has
become, by his consent, either express or tacit, the identifying
and generic name of the thing patented, this name passes to
the public with the cessation of the monopoly which the patent
created. Where another avails himself of this public dedication to make the machine and use the generic designation, he

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

can do so in all forms, with the fullest liberty, by affixing such
name to the machines, by referring to it in advertisements
and by other means, subject, however, to the condition that
the name must be so used as not to deprive others of their
rights or to deceive the public, and, therefore, that the name
must be accompanied with such indications that the thing
manufactured is the work of the one making it, as will unmistakably inform the public of that fact.
It remains only to apply these legal conclusions to the facts
already recapitulated. Of course, from such application all
claim of right, on the part of plaintiff in error, to prevent the
use of the name "Singer" is dispelled. This leaves only two
questions, first, whether that name as used in the circulars and
advertisements of the defendant is accompanied with such
plain information as to the source of manufacture of the
machines by them made as to make these circulars and advertisements lawful; and, second, whether this also is the case
with the use of the word "Singer " on the machines which the
defendant makes and sells. As to the first of these inquiries.
the proof shows that the circulars were so drawn as to adequately indicate to any one in whose hands they may have
come that the machines therein referred to were made by the
June Manufacturing Company, and not by the Singer Company. Wetherefore dismiss the circulars from view. As to
the advertisements, without going into details, some of those
offered in evidence were well calculated to produce the impression on the public that the Singer machines referred to therein
were for sale by the June Manufacturing Company, as the
agent or representative of the Singer Company.
On the second question the proof also is clear that there was
an entire failure on the part of the defendant to accompany
the use of the word "Singer," on the machines made and sold
by him, with sufficient notice of their source of manufacture,
to prevent them from being bought as machines made by
the Singer Manufacturing Company, and thus operate an injury to private rights and a deceit upon the public. Indeed,
not only the acts of omission in this regard, but the things
actually done, give rise to the overwhelming implication that

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE MI'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the failure to point to the origin of manufacture was intentional, and that the system of marking pursued by the defendant had the purpose of enabling the machines to be sold to
the general public as machines made by the Singer Company.
The marks on the machines are found on the oval plate and
on the device cast in the leg of the stand. On the first of
these (the oval plate) the words "Improved Singer" are found
in prominent letters, unaccompanied by anything to indicate
that the machines were manufactured by the June Company,
except the words "J. M. Co." and the monogram "J. Mfg.
Co."
The shape of the plate, its material, the position in
which it was placed upon the machines, its size, its color, the
prominence given to the words "Improved Singer," all*could
have conveyed but one impression to one not entirely familiar
with the exact details of the device upon the Singer Company's plates, and that is that the machine was one coming
from the factory of the Singer Company. So, in the second
(the device cast in the legs of the stand), the word " Singer"
alone without any qualification is there found in bold relief,
and above this the word "I. S." and in small letters "J. Mfg.
Co." The similarity between the letter J. and the letter S.,
the failure to state in full the name of the manufacturer, the
general resemblance to the device of the Singer Company, the
place where it was put, which had no necessary connection
with the structure or working capacity of the machines, and
the prominence of the casting of the word "Singer" in comparison with the other mark, bring out in the plainest way
the purpose of suppressing knowledge of the actual manufacturer, and suggesting that it was made by the Singer Company. It is significant of the fraudulent purpose of the
defendant that the device which the Singer Company cast in
the legs of its machines was only by them adopted after the
expiration of the patents and the resulting cessation of the
monopoly, and for the avowed purpose of distinguishing their
machines from others which had come upon the market, and
therefore the colorable imitation which the defendant immediately proceeded to make had no necessary connection with
the right to make machines according to the Singer system

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and to call and sell them as Singer machines in consequence
of their dedication to the public. But there are other circumstances in the record which throw light upon the facts which
we have just stated, and lend to them an increased significance. On the plate of the Singer machines there was plainly
marked a number, which the proof shows had run with relatively accurate consecutiveness from the beginning. These
numbers, as a result of the vast development of the business
of the Singer Company and the enormous number of New
Family machines sold by them, ran into the millions. The
defendant, who was in the commencement of his business, at
once began also to number his machines in the millions,
thereby conveying the obvious impression that they were the
result of a manufacture long established, and as they were
marked "Singer" suggesting, by an irresistible implication,
that they were machines made by the Singer Company.
There is an attempt in the evidence to explain this fact by
the statement that it was the habit of sewing machine makers to add three figures to the actual number of machines by
them made, but the proof does not sustain the explanation,
and if it did, it amounts to but the contention that the commission of a fraud should be condoned because others were
guilty of similar attempts to deceive. There is another significant fact. On the machines made by the Singer Company
there was a tension screw. This screw on the Singer machines
served a useful mechanical purpose, and did not pass into the
public domain with the expiration of the fundamental patents,
because specially covered by a subsisting patent. The defendant in making his machines placed thereon a dummy screw,
serving no mechanical purpose whatever, and which could
have had no object but that of producing the impression that
his machine was made by the Singer Company.
There remains only for examination the second proposition,
that is:
Second. The alleged violation of the 8peciftc trade-mark of
the complainantby the device found on the defendant'8 machine
and by the use of the word "Singer."
This question is necessarily involved in and determined by

SINGER M'F'G CO. v. JUNE M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the foregoing considerations. There can be no doubt, if the
right to use the word " Singer" did not exist, that the plate and
the device cast in the leg of the defendant's machine would
be a plain infringement of the specific trade-mark of the
Singer Company. There can also be no doubt that the marks
used by the defendant would not constitute a specific infringement unless they contained the word "Singer" or a representation equivalent in the public mind to that word. It follows
that the marks used by the defendant become only an infringement from the fact that each of them contained and embodied
But the word "Singer," as we have
the word "Singer."
seen, had become public property, and the defendant had a,
right to use it. Clearly, as the word "Singer" was dedicated
to the public, it could not be taken by the Singer Company
out of the public domain by the mere fact of using that name
as one of the constituent elements of a trade-mark. In speaking of a mark containing composite words, some of which
become dedicated to public use, others of which are not,
Braun in his Trait6 des Marques de Fabrique, No. 135, pp.
354--355, says: "The surname, says a judgment of the court
of Paris, is property in the most necessary and in the most
imprescriptible sense. (Paris, 18th of November, 1875, Pattaille.) Does this mean that a mark composed of a name can
never be lost? The courts, on the contrary, have decided
that two elements which compose a name, that is, the surname
of the individual or the firm upon the one side and its tracing or distinctive form" (in a trade-mark) "are susceptible of
falling into the public domain together or separately. In this
last case, the exclusive right to -the trade-mark may survive
the exclusive right to the name and vice versa.

Thus one

may keep the exclusive right to the use of the name, while the
remainder of the mark will belong to every one."
The right to use the word "Singer," which caused the imitative infringement in the device, being lawful, it is plain that the
infringement only resulted from the failure to plainly state
along with the use of that word the source of manufacture,
and therefore this branch of the question is covered by the
same legal principle by which we have determined the other.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

It follows, therefore, that the judgment below, which recognized the right of the defendant to make or vend sewing
machines in the form in which they were made by him that is, like unto the machines made upon the principles of
the Singer system - with the use of the word "Singer," without a plain and unequivocal indication of the origin of manufacture, was erroneous.
Therefore the decree below must be
Reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to enter
a decree in favor of complainant,with costs, pe petually
enjoining the defendant, its agents, servants and representatives: fgrt, from using the word "Singer" or any
equivalent thereto, in advertisements in relation to sewing
machines, without clearly and unmistakably stating in all
said advertisements that the machines are made by the defendant, as distinguishedfrom the 8ewing machines made
by the Singer Manufacturing Company: second, also per.petualyenjoining the defendantfrom marking upon sewingmachines or upon anyplate or device connectedtherewith
or attached thereto the word " Singer," or words or letters
equivalent ther'eto, ,bithout clearly and unmistakably syeeifying in connection therewith that such machines are the
product of the defendant or other manufacturer,and therefore not theproductof the Singer -ManufacturingCompany.
And the decree so to be entered must also contain a direction
for an accounting by the defendant as to any prots which
may have been realized by it, because of the wrongful acts
by it committed.

