UNITED STATES v. MACMILLAN.
193.

Syllabus.

by implication. Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville, 200
U. S.22, 34; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 471; Mitchell
v. Dakota Central Telephone Co., 246 U. S. 396, 412. The
grant to appellant. not being an exclusive one, the contention that competition in business, likely to result
from a similar grant to another company, would be a
violation of appellant's contract, or a taking of its property in violation of the Constitution of the United States
is so plainly frivolous that the motion to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction, filed irr each case, must be sustained.
David Kaufman Sons Co. v. Smith, 216 U. S. 610; Toop
v. Ulysses Land Co., 237 U. S. 580; Sugarman v. United
States, 249 U. S. 182.
Dinissed.

UNITED STATES v. MACMILLAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 167. SubmittedJanuary 23, 1920.-IDecided June 1,1920.
The excepti6nal legislation under which the salary of the clerk of the
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois was for a time
appropriated for by Congress, leaving, however, the expenses of his
office to be defrayed as in other cases out of the fees and emoluments
did not operate to convert such fees and emoluments when collected into public moneys of the United States. P. 201.
Moneys received by a clerk of a District Court as interest upon a verage
daily balances of bank deposits made up of fees and emoluments
earned by the clerk, or made of moneys deposited with him by litigants to meet future costs, etc., under rule of court, are not public
moneys of the United States, nor emoluments for which he must
account to the Government. Pp. "91 et seq., 204.
251 Fed. Rep. 55, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.
THE

253 U. S.

case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General and Mr. A. F. Myers for the United
$tates:
The clerk of the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois during the period involved was a salaried
officer, expressly prohibited from receiving any additional
pay, allowance, or compensation. Act of July 31, 1894,
28 Stat. 204. As such he was clearly subject to the provisions of Rev. Stats., § 1765. Hoyt v. United States,
10 How. 108; Lewis v. United-Sates, 244 U. S. 134; United
States v. King, 147 TT. S. 676,
The moneys included in defendant's semi-annual returns, on which interest was collected and retained, were
received in his official capacity. He thereupon became
obligated to account for all shch fees and emoluments,
over and above the necessary expenses of his office. The
interest followed the principal, of which the United
States was the sole owner, after deduction of the necessary expenses. United States v. McMillan, 165 U. S.
504; United States v. Abeel, 174 Fed. Rep. 12;' United
States v. Mason, 211 Fed. Rep. 233; 219 Fed. Rep. 547;
Alexander v. United States, 43 Ct. Clms..389, 395. Thi>
ground of decision in United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169,
was that since various clerks, with the acquiescence of
the judges and of the executive branch of the governnent,
had uniformly omitted from their returns fees received in
naturalization cases, such loug standing practice amounted
to a contemporaneous construction of the statute requiring such returns. The statute was amended by
expressly providing that the word "emolument" shall
include such fees. Act of June 28, 1902, 32 Stat. 475.
In United States v. Mason, 218 U. S. 517, the court was
careful to observe (p. 530) that the case was not one where
a clerk has refused or failed to make the return required
by statute or to pay over the surplus shown by his return

UNITED STATES v. MACMILLAN.
195.

Argument for the United States.

to exist. While there is no federal decision holding intere st on the principal to be an emolument, the term
woild seem to be broad enough to include it, particularly
in view of the statutory definition in the Act of 1902,
supra. The opinion of the Comptroller (23 Comp. Dec.
732) cited by the court below, was based upon the opinion
of the District Court in the present case, and is not an independent opinion. In Vansant v. State, 96 Maryland,
110, it was expressly held that a clerk should account for
interest on moneys deposited by him as emoluments.
To like effect are: Hughes v. People, 82 Illinois, 78; Hunt
v. State, 124 Indiana, 306; Rhea v. Brewster, 130 Iowa, 729i.
The United States, as obligee of the clerk's bond, may
maintain a suit. against the clerk and his surety for failure to account for interest collected and retained on moneys deposited by litigants subject to disbursement. The
moneys continued to be the property of the litigants in
the possession of the clerk until they were used for the
payment of court costs, or were subsequently returned.
If these deposits remain unclaimed by the persons entitled thereto for five years they become subject to an
order of court to cause them to be deposited in the Treasury of the United States. Rev. Stats., §§ 995, 996, as
amended; In re Moneys, 170 Fed. Rep. 470; United States
v. Abeet, 174 U. S. 12. It is immaterial that the interest
accruing on these funds does not belong to the United
States. The requirement of the statute is not simply
that clerks shall account for all moneys belonging to the
Government, but that they shall also account for "all
other amounts received for services in any way connected
with the clerk's office," Act of 1902, supra, and ' for
any other moneys received by them in their official capacity, whether on behalf of the United States or otherwise." Act of June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 754. This is not a
suit to establish, as between the depositors and the United
States, the ownership of the interest, but a suit on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

official bond of the clerk which requires him to account
for all moneys coming into his hands as required by law.
It is therefore sufficient to allege that the interest is and
was no part of any sum earned by the clerk. Cf. United
States v. Davis, 243 U. S. 570. Since the clerk was not
the owner of the interest, Rhea v. Brewster, 130 Iowa, 729,
and since it came into his hands in his official capacity,
the United States could maintain this suit, Howard v.
United States, 184 U. S.676; United States v. Abeel, 174
Fed. Rep. 12; without mentioning the beneficiaries. Mobile & Montgomery R. R. Co. v. Jurey, 111 U. S. 584, 593;
Webb v. Southern Ry. Co., 235 Fed. Rep. 578, 585; Southern
Ry. Co. v. Blunt, 165 Fed. Rep. 258, 261; Long v. Kansas
City &c. Ry. Co., 170 Alabama, 635, 642.
As to the District Court's suggestion that the clerk as
insurer of private funds deposited with him is entitled to
retain the interest as compensation, see Rhea v. Brewster,
supra; State v. McFetridge, 84 Wisconsin, 473; Eshelby
v. Board of Education, 66 Ohio St. 71; Garley v. People,
28 Colorado, 227; Nash v. Faulkner, 107 N. Y. 477.
Mr. George T. Buckingham, Mr. Marquis Eaton and Mr.
Charles Troup for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE. WHITE delivered the opinion of

the court.
The relation of the United States to moneys alleged to
have been collected by a clerk of a district court of thb
United States as fees or emoluments of his office and the
scope of his duty to account semi-aniually for the same
to the Attorney General so as to fix, if any there was, the
surplus due to the United States after paying the expenses of the clerk's office and the clerk's salary as fixed
by law, is the general subject here arising for consideration."' , §833, Rev. Stats.; Act of June 28, 1902, 32 Stat.
475, 476; § 839, Rev. Stats.; § 844, Rev. Stats.

UNITED STAtES v. MACMILLAN.
195.

Opinion of the Court.

The controversy originated by a suit commenced by
the United States against the defendant in error as clerk
of the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois, Eastern Division, and the surety on
his official bond, to recover $3,861.05. The right to the
relief was based upon averments that during the period
from December 27, 1905, to January 27, 1910, the clerk
had collected the sum named as interest on the average
daily balances of his bank accounts resulting from the
deposit by him of the fees and emoluments of his office
and of moneys placed by litigants with him to meet payments for costs or otherwise which they might lawfully
be required to make during the course of the litigation.
It was further alleged that although the interest thus
received constituted a fee or emolument of the office of
the clerk, or money held in trust by him ' for the United
States, for the receipt of which he was bound by law
semi-annually to account, he had failed to do so and was
therefore liable.
. By plea the defendants admitted the collection by the
clerk of the amount sued for as interest on the average
daily balances of his bank accounts made up as alleged
of moneys derived from fees and emoluments and deposits
by litigants under the rules or orders of court. The plea
averred that, as required by law, the clerk had'made his
semi-annual accountings in which, although he did not
charge himself with the interest allowed him on his bank
balances as stated, he had charged himself with every
item constituting a fee or emolument of his office from
whatever source due, and after debiting the charge thus
made with the proper proportion of his salary and the expenses of his office, had turned the balance, if any there
was, into the Treasury of the United States. There was
annexed to the plea a copy of the rules of court relating
to the placing by litigants of money with the clerk, and
the plea alleged that whenever, out of such money, any

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

charge whether for a fee or emolument or otherwise became due, it was at once paid, so that the amount of that
deposit always solely represented money belonging to and
held for the account of the depositing litigant to meet
payments due by him which might thereafter arise.
To this plea the United States demurred as 'stating no
defense and, after hearing, its demurrer was overruled.
In consequence of an election by the United States to
plead no further, the' case was submitted for judgment
on the petition and plea.
At that time the court had under advisement eight
other cases involving the questions arising in 'this, five
being suits by the United States against the clerks of
other United States courts and three, in addition to this,
being against the clerk who is defendant here, covering
interest collected for different periods. The court disposed of the nine cases in one opinion. It held that as
there was no contention as to a default by the clerk concerning any money deposited with him by litigants, that
subject would be put out of view. Carefully considering
the pleadings, it held that the claim of the United States
to the interest rested upon one or the other of two propositions: (1) that the money deposited by the clerk and
upon which the interest was allowed was public moneys
of the United States and therefore the interest belonged
to the United States; (2) that without reference to whether
the deposits were public moneys, the interest paid was
an emolument for which the clerk was bound to account.
Elaborately considering these questions the. court decided both against the United States.
Reviewing on error one of the cases against this defendant which was decided, as we have seen, by the trial
court along with this, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
the trial court in a brief per curiam opinion in which it
approved the analysis of the case as made by the trial
court and concurred in holding decisive the cases in this

UNITED STATES v. MACMILLAN.
195.

Opinion of the Court.

court which the trial court relied upon. Subsequently
when the case now before us came to be heard the ruling
in the case just stated was applied to this and the judgment was therefore also affirmed.
In argument here it is suggested by the United States
that as the defendant clerk was by exceptional legislation
an officer whose salary was specifically appropriated for
(Acts of July 31, i894, 28 Stat. 162, 204; March 2, 1895,
28 Stat. 764, 806; August 24, 1912, 37 Stat. 417, 465),
therefore the principles passed upon below are not necessarily decisive. But aside from the disregard of the
admissions resulting from the pleadings which the suggestion involves and the entire absence of even an-intimation that such a contention was raised in either of
-the courts below, we put the belated suggestion out of
view, since as it is not disputed that the defendant clerk
was under obligation to meet the expenses of L -office
from the fees and emoluments thereof and to pay over
to the United States only the surplus resulting, we think.
the distinction assumed to arise from the proposition
stated makes no difference in the application of the principles which the court below held to be conclusive and
the soundness of which we are now therefore required to,
pass upon.
As we agree with the lower court that the two propositions decided by the trial court embraced the whole
case, we are thus brought, first, to determine whether the
fees and emoluments collected by the clerk and deposited
by him in bank and upon which interest was allowed him:
were public moneys of the United States, thus entitling
the United States to the interest as an increment of its
ownership. That it was not is so completely foreclosed
as to cause it to be only necessary to consider the previous ruling on the subject.
In United States v. Mason, 218 U. S. 517, the court was
called upon to determine the validity of the action of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

circuit court of the United States in quashing three indictments against the clerk of a circuit court of the United
States for the "embezzlement of certain moneys of the
United States," which moneys were a portion of the surplus of fees and emoluments of his office over and above
the compensation and allowances authorized by law to be
retained by him. The indictments were basediF and the
sole reliance to sustain them and thu3 reverse the court
below was rested, upon §§ 5490 and 5497, Revised Statutes,
with the amendments made by the Act of February 3,
1879, c. 42, 20 Stat. 280, each of which sections exclusively
dealt with embezzlement of "public moneys." Whether,
therefore, the particular moneys- which were there in
question, being derived from fees and emoluments of the
clerk, were public moneys required necessarily to be decided. Reviewing historically the legislation covering
clerks of courts of the United States which had been,
previously recapitulated in United Stas v. Hill, 120 U. S.
169, it was pointed out, first, that originally clerks of
courts were not salaried, but were remunerated by the
right to collect and retain established fees and emoluments
and that under such legislation the sums collected by the
clerks were in no -sense public moneys of the United
States, but were moneys of the clerks held by them in their
personal capacity in payment for their official services.
. Coming to state the evolution in the situation by which
in time it. came to pass that a limit was placed on the
arriuunt of compensation which, a clerk should annually
receive and consequently making it his duty to account
for his fees and emoluments and to turn oveT, to the
United States the surplus, if any, remaining after the
payment of his compensation and the expenses of his
office, the court observed (pp. 523-4):.
"The plain object of this statute was to limit the amount
which the clerk was to retain and to require an accounting,
an audit of expenses, and a payment of the surplus. Other-

UNITED STATES v. MACMILLAN.
195.

203

Opinion of the Court.

wise the established method of administering the office was
not changed. The fees were to be recovered as theretofore; and to the extent of the amount of the fixed compensation of the clerk and the necessary expenses of his
office, he was entitled to use and to pay as formerly. The
statute suggests no other course. What, if anything,
should be paid into the public treasury at the end of the
half year, when he was to make his return, depended upon
the amount of the fees, the amount of the expenses and
the result of the audit. If his fixed compensation and his
necessary expenses exhausted the fees there would be
nothing to pay. The amount payable was to be determined when the return was made."
Testing the possible application of the statutes dealing
with the embezzlement of public moneys to the rights and
duties of a clerk to collect the fees and emoluments of his
office and to make use of them as authorized by law, it was
pointed out that such application could not be made
because of the incompatibility between the powers and
duties of the clerk, on the one hand, and the provisions of
the statutes relied upon, on the other. This incongruity
was aptly illustrated by the statement which follows
dealing with the duties d the clerk and the impossibility
of applying to them the prohibitions of one of the ,statutes
in question (p. 525):
"'They lay outside of the prohibition of § 16 agair.st loaning, using, converting to his own use, depositing ihL banks,
and exchanging for other funds, for it was upon tlese fees
that the clerk depended for his livelihood and for the payment of the expenses of his office, subject only to the duty
twice a year to make his accounting and to pay over the
surplus if the fees exceeded the total amount allowed him.'
Again marking the broad line which lay between public
money and the clerk's fees and emoluments and his right to
collect and disburse the same, the court declared (p. 529):
"There has thus been established a distinct system with

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion ef the Court.

253 U. S.

respect to the fees and emoluments of the clerks. Its
features are to be explained by the history of the clerk's
office and the requirements of its convenient administration. It is urged that the fees and emoluments are
attached to the office, and are received in an official
capacity. This consideration, however, does not aid the
prosecution, for they were attached to the office before the
statute of 1841, When they belonged to the clerk without
any duty on his part to account for any portion of them."
And once more emphasizing the distinction it was said
(p. 531):
"The fees and emoluments are not received by the
clerk as moneys or property belonging to the United
Statesy but as the amount allowed to him for his compensation and office expenses under the statutes defining his
rights and duties, and with respect to the amount payable
when the return is made the clerk is not trustee but
debtor. Any other view must ignore not only the practical
construction which the statutes governing the office have
received, but their clear intent."
Indeed the decisive principles which were thus announced in the Mason Case were but a reiteration and
application of the general doctrine on the subject annouced in United States v. Hill, 123 U. S. 681, where it
was in express terms pointed out that "The clerk of a
court of the United States collects his taxable 'compensation,' not as the revenue of the United States, but as fees
and emoluments of his office, with an obligation on his
part to account to the United States for all he gets over a
certain sum which is fixed by law."
Conclusively disposing as these cases do of the contention of the Government as to public moneys of the United
States, it leaves only for consideration the question of
whether the interest on the sum of the fees and emoluments
deposited by the clerk in bank was in and of itself an
emolument for which he was liable to account. But that

UNITED STATES v. MACMILLAN.
195.

Dissent.

question is virtually also foreclosed in view of what was
held in the Mason Case, since the individual character of
the bank deposit as there defined and the right to make it
necessarily causes the increment of such deposit, that is,
the interest, to partake of the character of the principal.
And besides, aside from the ruling in the Mason Case, it
had been previously held that a*sum collected by a clerk
for a service not pertaining to his office or provided for in
the schedule of fees allowed him for official services was
not a fee or emolument in the sense of the statute (United
States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169).
Although at the outset we eliminated from consideration
liability for interest on money of litigants deposited with
the clerk under the rules of court because not embraced in
the claim of money or property of the United States upon
which all the Government contentions here rest, in leaving
the case we observe that the question of the liability of the
clerk to pay interest to litigants on money deposited by
them is in a large degree covered by the rules of court
annexed to the plea, whih permit in the cases specified an
application of a litigant to the court to direct the allowance
of such interest and to provide for its payment by the
clerk when the request is granted.
In conclusion we direct attention, as was done i a the
Mason Case and as did the trial court in this case, to the
incompatibility which would result, on the one hand, from
enforcing an absolute obligation on the part of the clerk
to account for all the fees and emoluments of the clerk's
office whether collected or not as well as his duty to c.efray
the expenses of his office out of such revenue, and the upholding, on the other hand, of the confficting theory that
the fees and emoluments were public moneys and the
power of the clerk to deal with them accordingly limited.
Affirmed.
MR. JuSTIcE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.

