94

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Parties.

253 U. S.

LEARY ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS OF LEARY, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF 'APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 314.

Argued April 30, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

L went bail for G in a federal prosecution, upon an understanding that
a fund standing in certain securities should be held for his indemnification, and not knowing that it represented moneys of which G had
defrauded the United States through the crimes charged in the indictment; and, upon G's default, suffered judgment on the bond,
which was paid by his estate. (See s. c. 224 U. S. 567; 245 U. S. 1.)
Held: (1) That since the duty to pay the judgment was absolute,
L's estate was not entitled to be reimbursed out of the fund for the
expense of defending against proceedings by the United States in
the Surrogate Court to secure payment of its judgment. P. 95.
(2) That, since the upholding of L's claim of indemnity against the
United States could not have been contemplated in L's agreement
and he have the status of bona fide purchaser upon which his paramount equity depended, the expense of establishing and protecting
the claim in the suit by which the Government impounded the fund
could be charged against the fund only as costs, which would be
inadmissible, the United States not being liable to costs directly or
indirectly. P. 97.
(3) That, in allowing L's estate the amount paid on the judgment on
the bail bond, with interest, the District Court properly deducted
the clerk's poundage of 1 per cent. under Rev. Stats., ยง 828. P. 95.
257 Fed. Rep. 246, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Aubrey E. Strode, with whom Mr. J. T. Coleman,
Jr., was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Marion Erwin, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States.

LEARY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

94.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
The United States brought a bill to charge Kellogg
with a trust in respect of funds received by him from
Greene and obtained from the plaintiff by Greene through
his participation in some well known frauds. In 224 U. S.
567, the representative of Leary was allowed to intervene
and to assert a paramount claim upon the funds. In 245
U. S. 1, it was established that the funds were held by
Kellogg primarily as security to Leary against his liability
upon a bail bond for Greene. The United States having
obtained a judgment on the bail bond and the same having been paid by the Leary estate the present appellants
filed a petition in the cause, in the District Court, to
have the funds applied to the reimbursement (1) of expenditures in defending against proceedings in the Surrogate Court to secure payment of the judgment, (2) of
expenditures in establishing and protecting the trust;
and (3) of the sum of $40,802, the amount paid on the
judgment, with interest from July 26, 1910, the date
when the judgment was paid. The District Court allowed
the last claim with interest at six per cent., less the clerk's
poundage of one per cent. under Rev. Stats., ยง 828. (The
details are immaterial.) It denied the other claims, and
its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
257 Fed. Rep. 246. 168 C. C. A. 330. Leary's administrators appealed.
The only reason suggested for the claim on account of
defending against proceedings on the judgment is that
the United States in the present suit had impounded the
funds available for payment. But the obligation to pay
the judgment was absolute, not confined to a payment
from these funds, and the claim for the cost of resisting
it has no foundation. We also are of opinion that the
deduction of poundage by the clerk was proper as in other

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

cases of money kept and paid out by him. But it is said
that this item and the expense of defending the trust
should be borne by the residue of the funds in the clerk's
hands after deducting the amount paid in respect of the
judgment. It is argued that the trust informally established by letters of Kellogg stating that he held it for
Leary's protection to be applied in payment of his obligation in case it should be established, if construed with
reasonable liberality, must embrace these elements to
make the protection complete. Of course the upholding
of Leary's claim against the United States was not contemplated in the terms of the trust because Leary's
ignorance of the interest of the United States was essential to the validity of his position as a purchaser without
notice. But it is thought that indemnity includes defences
of the indermifying fund against unexpected attacks,
that if the trustee fails to make it the cestui que trust may
do so, and that in either event the fund should be charged.
It does not matter that the United States is the opposing
party, as its rights in the fund are inferior to those that
Leary now has successfully affirmed. Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527.
To these arguments the 'Government replies in the
first place that they come too late; that the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals that was before this court on
the last occasion was treated as a final decree, which
therefore fixed the amount that the appellants could recover beyond enlargement, and that as the prayer of the
appellants was only for the transfer of so much of the
fund as would pay the judgment on the bail bond with
interest, nothing more can be asked now. This objection might raise difficulty if otherwise our opinion were
in favor of the appellants; but as we think that the Circuit Court of Appeals was right with regard to the merits,
we will assume for purposes of decision that the previous
proceeding did not so precisely determine the appellants'

CHICAGO &c. RY. CO. v. McCAULL-DINSMORE CO. 97
Syllabus.

94.

rights as to prevent their demanding the foregoing items
*as incident to the claim allowed.
To charge the fund with these expenses is to charge
the United States, and it begs the question to say that
the United States in this respect is subordinate to the
Leary claim. It is not subordinate unless Leary's costs
ought to come out of the Government's pocket, even
though limited to particular money there. The Government cannot be made to pay or to take subject to the
deduction, because Leary, even though a bona fide purchaser, had no contract for it, and because to charge the
fund apart from contract is merely a round-about way
of saying that the owner of the fund must pay charges
of a kind that the United States never pays; (see National
Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 103, 104; United States v.
Barker, 2 Wheat. 395;) and charges for protecting the
fund not for but against the United States.
Decree affirmed.
MR.. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the decision

of this case.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. McCAULL-DINSMORE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 628.

Argued April 23, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

Under the Cummins Amendment of March 4, 1915, which provides
that the carrier shall be liable for the full actual loss, damage or
injury, notwithstanding any limitation of liability, limitation of
amount of recovery, or representation or agreement as to value in
the receipt, bill of lading, etc., and which declares any such limitation

