CREAM OF WHEAT CO, v. GRAND FORKS.- 325
319.

Syllabus.

the forty-eight hours free time, the undue detention was
not the necessary result of the ore therein being frozen, but
was the result of there being an accumulation of cars so
great as to exceed the unloading capacity. Compare
Riverside Mills v. Charleston & Western CarolinaRy. Co.,
20 I. C. C. 153, 155; Central PennsylvaniaLumber Co. v.
Director General, 53 I. C. C. 523. It does not seem
probable that those who framed and adopted the frozen
shipment rule and the Interstate Commerce Commission,
which approved it, intended therein to depart from
the established policy of treating the single car as the unit
in applying demurrage charges as well as in applying
carload freight rates. Such was the conclusion reached in
the informal ruling of the Commission to which counsel
called attention.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania is
Reversed.

CREAM OF WHEAT COMPANY v. COUNTY OF
GRAND FORKS, IN THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA;
No. 302.

Argued April 29, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

A State may tax a domestic corporation on the excess of the market
value of its outstanding stock over the value of its real and personal
property and certain indebtedness although the corporation does no
business within the State and has there no tangible real or personal
property nor any papers by which intangible property is customarily
evidenced, and it is immaterial whether the tax be considered a
franchise or a property tax. P. 328.
The limitation of the Fourteenth Amendment upon the power of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

State to tax the property of its residents which has acquired a permanent situs outside the State does not apply to intangible property
even though it has acquired a "business situs" and is taxable in
another State. P. 329.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent double taxation. P. 330.
170 N. W. Rep. 863, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harry .S.Carson and Mr. Rome G. Brown, with
whom Mr. Arnold L. Guesmer and Mr. Edwin C. Brown
were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Albert E. Sheets, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of
the State of North Dakota, and Mr. George E. Wallace,
with whom Mr. William Langer, Attorney General of the
State of North Dakota, was on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JusIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the court.
By the statutes of North Dakota, as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, a manufacturing corporation
organized under its laws is taxed in the following manner:
Its real and personal property within the State is assessed
like that of an individual. In addition there is assessed
against it an amount equal to the aggregate market value
of its outstanding stock less the value of its real'and
personal property and certain indebtedness. The corporation in submitting its list of property for purposes of
taxation is required to enter this additional amount as
"bonds .and stocks" under item 23 in the prescribed statutory schedule. On this additional amount, as upon the
value of its real and personal property, the corporation is
taxed at the same rate and in the same manner as individuals are upon their property. The statute does not in
terms inipose a franchise tax as distinguished, or separated,
from a tax on personal property, but the Supreme Court of

CREAM OF WHEAT CO. v. GRAND FORKS. 327
325.

Opinion of the Court.

the State construes the tax upon this additional amount as
"in substance or effect, to some degree at least, a tax upon
the privilege of being a corporation; " or, in other words, a
tax upon the corporate franchise granted it by the State.
Individuals are not required to include in their lists of
taxable property any share or portion of the capital stock
or property of any corporation which such corporation is
required to list. Compiled Laws of North Dakota for
1913, §§ 2110, 2103, 2102, 2077. Grand Forks County v.
Cream of. Wheat Co., 170 N. W. Rep. 863.
The Cream of Wheat Company was incorporated
under
the laws of North Dakota after the enactment of the tax
legislation above described and it maintained throughout
the years 1908 to 1914, both inclusive, a public office in the
City of Grand Forks in said State for the transaction of its
usual and corporate business. Its manufacturing, commercial and financial business was conducted wholly
without the State; and it had not at any time during any of
those years within the State either any tangible property
real or personal or any papers by which intangible property
is customarily evidenced. Its property, as distinguished
from its franchise, is alleged to have been taxed in States
other than North Dakota. In 1914 the officials of North
Dakota assessed against the company in the manner
prescribed by law for each year from 1908. to 1913, both
inclusive, a tax at tlie uniform rate on the sum of $50,000,
as representing personal property, to wit, "bonds and
stocks," which had escaped taxation. They also assessed a
similar tax for the then current year. The taxes not being
paid, this action was brought in a state court for the
amount; and the facts above stated were proved. The
trial court entered judgment for the defendant; but its
judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State
which entered judgment for the county for the full amount
of the taxes. The case is here on writ of error under § 237
of the Judicial Code.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion.of the Court.

253 U. S.

The company concedes that the State of North Dakota
might constitutionally have imposed a franchise tax upon
a corporation organized under its laws even though it had
no property within the State. The contentions are that
the Supreme Court of North Dakota erred in holding that
the tax here in question was a franchise tax; that it was in
reality a property tax upon intangible property; that the
company's intangible property must be deemed to have
been located where its tangible property was; and that in
taxing property beyond its limits North Dakota violated
rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. The
view which we take of the matter renders it unnecessary to
consider the question whether or not the law under discussion imposed a franchise tax or a property tax. Compare
Hamilton Company v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; Commonwealth v. Hamilton Manufacturing Co., 12 Allen, 298.
The view also renders it unnecessary to consider whether
the company having been incorporated in North Dakota
after the enactment of the law in question is in a position
to complain. Compare Interstate Consolidated Street Ry.
Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S. 79, 84; International &
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Anderson County, 246 U. S.
424, 433; Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466.
The company was confessedly domiciled in North
Dakota; for it was incorporated under the laws of that
State. As said by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, "It must
dwell in the place of its creation, and cannot migrate to
another sovereignty." Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet.
519, 588. The fact that its property and business were
entirely in another State did not make it any the less
subject to taxation in the State of its domicile. The
limitation imposed by the Fourteenth Amendment is
merely that aState may not tax a resident for property
which has acquired a permanent situs beyond its boundaries. This is the ground on which the ferry franchise involved in Louisville & Jeffi.onville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky,

CREAM OF WHEAT CO. v. GRAND FORKS. 329
325.

Opinion of the Court.

188 U. S. 385 (an incorporeal hereditament partaking of
the nature of real property)1 and the tangible personal
property permanently outside the State involved in
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v.- Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341, and Union Refrigerator Transit Co.
v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, were held immune from t0xation by the States in which the companies were incorporated. The limitation upon the power of taxation does not
apply even to tangible personal property without the
State of the corporation's domicile if, like a sea-going
vessel, the property has no permanent situs anywhere.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U. S. 63, 68. Nor
has it any application to intangible property, Union
Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, supra, p. 205;
Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1, 11, even though the property is also taxable in another State by virtue of having
acquired a "business situs" there, Fidelity & Columbia
Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54, 59. As stated in that
case: "It is unnecessary to consider whether the distinction between a tax measured by certain property and a tax
on that property could be invoked in a case like this.
Flintv. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107,1 46, 162, et seq.
Whichever this tax technically may be, the authorities
show that it must be sustained."
Counsel for the company direct our attention to cases
like Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 227; 166
U. S. 185, which hold that a State may tax a foreign
corporation not only on the value of its tangible property
within the State but also on that proportion of its entire
'See Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1, 12; Bowman v. Wathen, 2
McLean, 376; Lewis v. Gainessille, 7 Alabama, 85; Dundy v. Chambers,
23 Illinois, 369; The Queen v. CambrianRy. Co., L. R. 6 Q. B. 422.
Compare Thompson v. Schenectady Ry. Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 274. The
"franchise" referred to in Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S.

594, 601, as personal property, consisted in the right to do business as
a corporation, see p. 599.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

25 U. S.

intangible property which is fairly represented by and
must be included, in order to place a just value on the
tangible property located and the business transacted
there. 'The conclusion drawn by them is that the situs of
the intangible property must be with the tangible; otherwise, they say, we must bold that it is in two places at once
and that it may be subjected to double taxation. To this
it is sufficient to say that the Fourteenth Amendment does
not prohibit double taxation. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517,
524; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732; Fidelity &
Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, supra.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. NORTH AMERICAN TRANSPORTATION & TRADING COMPANY.
NORTH AMERICAN TRANSPORTATION & TRADING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 319, 320.

Argued April 30, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

When the Government without condemnation proceedings appropriates with legislative authority private property for a public use,
it impliedly promises to pay therefor, but in order that the Government be liable it must appear that the officer taking possession of the
property is authorized so to do by Congress or by the official on
whom Congress conferred the power. P. 333.
The Acts of March 3, 1899, c. 423, 30 Stat. 1064, 1070, and of May 26,
1900, c. 586, 31 Stat. 205, 213, making appropriations for quarters
.for troops, sufficiently authorize the Secretary of War to take land
for this purpose, but vest no authority in a general commanding a
department. Held, that the action of the general in taking possession of the land was tortious and no liability on the part of the
Government was created until the action was approved by the

