OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

by a consignor to a consignee or by a consignee to a consignor, but will not recognize an assignment to a stranger
to the transportation records."
See Robinson Co. v.
American Express Co., 38 I. C. C. 733, 735. So far as this
involves a construction of the act, we are unable to accept
it, for reasons that have been indicated. Treating it as
an administrative regulation, it of course constituted no
limitation upon the jurisdiction of the Commission, even
were it consistent with a correct construction of the act,
which we hold it was not. In any event, the Commission
had power to disregard the regulation, as in effect it did
by recognizing the assignments in this case.
Other points discussed in the argument require no
special comment.
It results that the judgments of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be reversed, and those of the District Court
affirmed.
Writs of error dismissed.
Writs of certiorariallowed.
Judgments of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and
judgments of DistrictCourt affirmed.

MECCANO,

LIMITED, v. JOHN
NEW YORK.

WANAMAKER,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 187.

Argued January 26, 27, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

A decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a suit for infringement of
patent and copyright and for unfair competition, is reviewable by

this court on certiorari, as if on appeal. P. 140. Jud. Code, §§ 128,
240.

MECCANO, LTD., v. JOHN WANAMAKER.
136.

137

Opinion of the Court.

An order of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing an order of the
District Court awarding ,apreliminary injunktion will not be reversed by this court unless clearly erroneous. P. 141.
Upon appeal from an order granting a preliminary injunction, it is
proper for the Circuit Court of Appeals to consider a change of circumstances resulting from the reversal of a decree in another circuit
upon which the District Court relied. Id.
Upon an appeal under Jud. Code, § 129, from an order granting a preliminary injunction against the defendant, it would be erroneous for
the Circuit Court of Appeals to grant a final decree for the plaintiff
upon proof by affidavit of a recent decree in another circuit claimed
to work an estoppel in plaintiff's favor; for defendant must have
opportunity to set'up and establish its defenses. Id.
A conflict of views claimed to exist between the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case and a Circuit Court of Appeals of another circuit
in a suit over the same subject and, as claimed, between the same
parties in interest, held not to justify this court in deciding the merits
on interlocutory appeal. P. 142.
250 Fed. Rep. 450, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Reeve Lewi8, with whom Mr. C. A. L. Massie, Mr.
W. B. Kerkam and Mr. Ralph L. Scott were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. H. A. Toulmin, with whom Mr. H. A. Toulmin, Jr.,
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Proceeding against Wagner and others in the United
States District Court, Southern District of Ohio, Meccano, Limited, obtained a decree (July 8, 1916) affirming

the validity, and restraining infringement, of its patent
for mechanical toys, also restraining unfair competition

in making and selling such toys and the further infringement of its copyright upon trade catalogue and illus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

trated manual relating thereto. 234 Fed. Rep. 912. An
appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, Sixth
Circuit. The same corporation instituted the present
suit in the United States District Court, Southern District of New York (December 9, 1916) seeking like relief
against John Wanamaker, a customer of Wagner.
The trial court granted a preliminary injunction,
asked upon the bill, supporting affidavits and exhibitsJanuary 12, 1917. It expressed general agreement with
the conclusions announced in the Ohio cause and said:
"It seems quite apparent that the patent is infringed and
that diagrams and directions as to construction have
been borrowed by defendant from complainant's copyrighted catalogues, and that the system of construction
adopted by the defendant is a direct imitation of complainant's system." An appeal followed; pending which
the Circuit Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit (November,
1917) reversed the Ohio District Court's decree so far as
it sustained the patent, approved it otherwise, and remanded the cause for further proceedings. 246 Fed.
Rep. 603.
January 25, 1918, after argument but before determination of appeal from the preliminary order, petitioner
moved for final decision on the merits, claiming that the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit "is
final and conclusive as to the case at bar, under the principles enunciated by the Supreme Court." Being opposed,
the motion was denied -March 24, 1918. The court
said of it:
"This was a motion for a 'decision on the merits of
this cause' by this court under the following circumstances.
A suit was brought in the District Court for the Southern
District of New York for an injunction for infringement
of a copyright, and of a patent, and for unfair competition
in the manufacture of a mechanical toy in absolute imitation of the plaintiff's. The plaintiff applied for and got

MECCANO, LTD., v. JOHN WANAMAKER.
136.

139

Opinion of the Court.

an injunction pendente lite, from which the defendant
appealed. That appeal is still pending undetermined in
this court. Meanwhile the plaintiff had in the District
Court required the defendant to answer certain interrogatories by which it appeared that the defendant procured
from one Wagner, the toys which it sold in alleged unfair competition and in violation of the patent, and also
the 'manuals' which went with the toys and explained
their uses, which are alleged to infringe the copyright.
The interrogatories further showed that Wagner had
agreed to hold the defendant harmless for any sales of
the toys and manuals, and that in pursuance of that
undertaking he had taken a share in the defense of this
suit. While it did not appear exactly what that share
was, it may be assumed for (he purposes of the motion
only, that Wagner has assumed the chief conduct of the
case and that the defendant remains only formally represented.
"The plaintiff sued Wagner in Ohio upon the three
same causes of equity and obtained a decree upon all.
Later an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit and the decree was affirmed except
as to the patent, which was declared invalid and which
the plaintiff has now withdrawn from this suit. No final
decree has been entered and the Ohio cause now stands
for an accounting in the district court. This motion is
upon the record in the Ohio suit which is made a part of
the moving papers and it presupposes that this court may
pass a final decree for the plaintiff upon the appeal from
the injunction pendente lite upon the assumption that that
record is a complete estoppel against the defendant here
and leaves open no issues for determination between the
parties."
"We pass the question of practice whether this court
under the doctrine of Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover, 177
U. S. 488, may enter a decree for the plaintiff upon such

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.-

253 U. S.

an appeal as that now pending. Mast, Foos & Co. v.
Stover, supra, was a case where the bill was dismissed and
no case has so far held that the-plaintiff could obtain an
affirmative decree. As we think the motion must be
denied upon the merits, we leave open the question
whether the plaintiff may in any event so terminate the
litigation.

.

.

.

It is apparent that some of the issues

are different from those litigated in Ohio; they involve
not only the defendant's rights to sell Wagner's toys and
manuals, but any others which it may procure elsewhere.

.

.

.

At best the rule in Mast, Foos & Co. v.

Stover, supra, is limited to those cases in which the court
can see that the whole issues can be disposed of at once
without injustice to the parties. Whatever may be the
result here, it is apparent that the case involves more
than can be so decided."
April 15, 1918, the court below reversed the challenged
preliminary order. After stating that the trial court very
naturally followed the Ohio District Court, it referred to
the partial reversal of the decree there announced and
expressed entire agreement with the Circuit Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, in holding the patent invalid. And,
having considered the evidence relating to copyright and
unfair competition, it found no adequate ground for an
injunction. 250 Fed. Rep. 450. The cause comes here
by certiorari. See Ex parte Wagner, 249 U. S.465.
Decrees by Circuit Courts of Appeals are declared
final by § 128, Judicial Code, in cases like the present
one. We, therefore, had authority to bring this cause
up by certiorari and may treat it as if here on appeal.
Section 240, Judicial Code; Harriman v. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S.244, 287; Denver v. New York Trust
Co., 229 U. S. 123, 136. The power of Circuit Courts of
Alipeals to review preliminary orders granting injunctions
arises from § 129, Judicial Code, which has been often
considered. Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S.518;

MECCANO, LTD., v. JOHN WANAMAKER.
136.

141

Opinion of the Court.

Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Manufacturing Co.; 177 U. S.
485, 494; Harriman v. Northern Securities Co., supra;
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Bray, 225 U. S.
205, 214; Denver v. New York Trust Co., supra. This
power is not limited to mere consideration of, and action
upon, the order appealed from; but, if insuperable objection to maintaining the bill clearly appears, it may be
dismissed and the litigation terminated.
The correct general doctrine is that whether a preliminary injunction shall be awarded rests in sound discretion of the trial court. Upon appeal, an order granting
or denying such an injunction will not be disturbed unless
contrary to some rule of equity, or the result of improvident exercise of judicial discretion. Rahley v. Columbia
Phonograph Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 623; Texas Traction Co.
v. Barron G. Collier, Inc., 195 Fed. Rep. 65, 66; Southern
Express Co. v. Long, 202 Fed. Rep. 462; City of Amarillo
v. Southwestern Telegraph & Telephone Co., 253 Fed. R 3p.
638. The informed judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals exercised upon a view of all relevant circumstances is entitled to great weight. And, except for strong
reasons, this court will not interfere with its action. No
such reasons are presented by the present record.
Pending the New York appeal the situation underwnt
a radical change--the Circuit Court of Appeals, Sixth
Circuit, reversed the decree upholding petitioner's patent.
Evidently the trial court had granted the preliminary
injunction in entire reliance upon that decree and alter
its reversal the court below properly took notice of and
considered the changed circumstances. Gulf, Colorado
& Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224.U. S. 503, 505, 506.
Petitioner maintains that its motion for final decree
upon the merits should have been sustained. But the
appeal was from an interlocutory order and the court
could only exercise powers given by statute. On such-an
appeal a cause may be dismissed if it clearly appears that

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

no ground exists for equitable relief; but finally to decide
a defendant's rights upon the mere statement of his adversary, although apparently supported by ex parte affidavits and decrees of other courts, is not within the purview of the act. He is entitled to a day in court with
opportunity to set up and establish his defenses. The
motion for final judgment was properly overruled. Eagle
Glass & Manufacturing Co. v. Rowe, 245 U. S. 275, 281.
Petitioner's motion to enter a disclaimer must be denied.
If the two Circuit Courts of Appeals have expressed
conflicting views we cannot now declare which is right or
undertake finally to decide the several issues involved
upon their merits. The matter for review here is the action of the courts below upon the preliminary order for
injunction and we may go no further. Leeds & Catlin
Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S. 301, 311;
Lutcher & Moore Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 257,
267.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed. The cause will be remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Affirmed.

O'CONNELL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 221.

Argued April 23, 26, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

A standing rule of a District Court extended the term for the purpose

of making and filing bills of exceptions and another provided that
the time allowed by the rules might be extended by order made
before its expiration but that no such extension or extensions should
exceed thirty days in all, without the consent of the adverse party.

