GREEN v. FRAZIER.
Opinion of the Court.

GREEN ET AL. v. FRAZIER, GOVERNOR, ETAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.

No. 811.

Argued April 19, 20, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

When a state tax authorized by the legislature pursuant to the state
constitution and upheld by the highest state court is called in question under the Fourteenth Amendment upon the ground that the
purposes for which it is imposed are not of a public nature, every
presumption must be indulged in its favor, and the united judgments
of the people, legislature and court of the State that the purposes
are public will be accepted unless clearly unfounded. P. 239. Jones
v.'City.of Portland,245 U. S. 217.
When a State sees fit, for the promotion of the public welfare, to enter
into activities which in the past have been considered as entirely
within the domain of private enterprise and to *assistthem by taxation, the wisdom of its legislation or the soundness of the economic
policy involved cannot be considered by this court in passing upon
the constitutionality of the taxation. P. 240.
Under the peculiar conditions existing in North Dakota, described
in the opinion :Of its Supreme Court in this case, held, that legislation which provides for engaging the State in the businesses of manufacturing and marketing farm products, and of providing homes
for the people, and which appropriates money, creates a state banking system and authorizes bond issues and taxation for carrying the
scheme into effect, is not unconstitutional as respects taxpayers
P. 242. \
176 N. W. Rep. 11, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
M" Thomas C.: Daggett for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. FredericA. Pike for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action by taxpayers of the State of North
Dakota against Lynn J. Frazier, Governor, John N.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Hagan,
of Agriculture and Labor, William
Langer, Commissioner
Attorney General,
and Obert Olson, State
Treasurer, and the Industrial Commission of that State to'
enjoin the enforcement of certain state legislation. The
defendants Lynn J. Frazier, as Governor, William Langer,
as Attorney General, and John Hagan, as Commissioner of
Agriculture and Labor, constitute the Industrial Commission, created by the Act of February 25, 1919, [Laws 1919,
c. 151] of the Sixteenth Legislative Assembly of the State
of North Dakota.
The laws involved were attacked on various grounds,
state and federal. The Supreme Court of North Dakota
sustained the constitutionality of the legislation. So far
as the decision rests on state grounds it is conclusive, and
we need not stop to inquire concerning it. Davis v.
Hikdebrant, 241 U. S. 565. The only ground of attack
involving the validity of the legislation which requires our
consideration concerns the alleged deprivation of rights
secured to the plaintiffs by the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Federal Constitution. It is contended that taxation
under the laws in question has the effect of depriving
plaintiffs of property without due process of law.
The legislation involved consists of a series of acts
passed under the authority of the state constitution, which
are: (1) An act creating an Industrial Commission of
North Dakota [Laws, 1919, c. 151] which is authorized to
conduct and manage on behalf of that State certain
utilities, industries, enterprises and business projects, to be
established by law. The act gives authority to the Commission to manage, operate, control and govern all utilities,
enterprises and business projects, owned, undertaken,
administered or operated by the State of North Dakota,
except those carried on in penal, charitable or educational
institutions. To that end certain powers and authority
are given to the Commission, among others: the right of
eminent domain; to fix the buying price of things bought,

GREEN v. FRAZIER.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

and the selling price of things sold incidental to the utilities, industries, enterprises and business projects, and to
fix rates and charges for services rendered, having in mind
the accumulation of a fund with which to replace in the
general funds of the State the amount received by the
Commission under appropriations made by the act; to
procure the necessary funds for such utilities, industries,
enterprises-and business projects by negotiating the bonds
of the State in such amounts and in such manner as may be
provided by law. $200,000 of the funds of the State are
appropriated to carry out the provisions of the act. (2)
The Bank of North Dakota Act, [Laws 1919, c. 147] which
establishes a bank under the name of" The Bank of North
Dakota," operated by the State. The Industrial Commission is placed in control of the operation and management
of the bank, and is given the right of eminent domain to
acquire necessary property. Public funds are to be
deposited in the bank, and the deposits are guaranteed by
the State of North Dakota. Authority is given to transfer
funds to other departments, institutions, utilities, industries, enterprises or business projects, and to make loans
to .counties, cities or political sub-divisions of the State, or
to state or national banks on such terms as the Commission
may provide. Loans to individuals, associations, and
private corporations are authorized, when secured by
duly recorded first mortgages on lands in the State of
North Dakota. An appropriation of $100,000 is made
immediately available to carry out the provisions of -he
act.- (3) An act providing for the issuing of bonds of -he
State in the sum of $2,000,000, the proceeds of which arc to
constitute the capital of the Bank of North Dakcta.
[Laws 1919, c. 148.] The earnings of the bank are to be
paid to the State Treasurer. Tax levies are authorized
sufficient to pay the interest on the bonds annually. The
bonds shall mature in periods of five years, and the Board
of Equalization is authorized to levy a tax in an amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

equal to one-fifth of the amount of their principal. The
State Treasurer is required to establish a bank bond payment fund into which shall be paid moneys received from
taxation, from appropriations and from bank earnings.
$10,000 is appropriated for the purpose of carrying the act
into effect. (4) An act providing for the issuing of bonds
in the sum of not exceeding $10,000,000, to be known as
"Bonds of North Dakota, Real Estate Series." [Laws
1919, c. 154.] These bonds are to be issued for the purpose
of raising money to procure funds for the Bank of North
Dakota to replace such funds as may have been employed
by it from time to time in making loans upon first mortgages upon real estate. The faith and credit of the State
of North Dakota are pledged for the payment of the bonds.
Moneys derived from the sale of the bonds are to be
placed by the Industrial Commission in the funds of the
bank, and nothing in the act is to be construed to prevent
the purchase of the bonds with any funds in the Bank of
North Dakota. It is further provided that the State
Board of Equalization shall, if it appears that the funds in
the hands of the State Treasurer are insufficient to pay
either principal or interest, accruing within a period of one
year thereafter, make a necessary tax levy to meet the
indicated deficiency. Provision iLmade for the repeated
exercise of the powers granted by the act, for the purposes
stated. An appropriation of $10,000 is made for carrying
into effect the provisions of this act. (5) An act declaring
the purpose of the State of North Dakota to engage in the
business of manufacturing and marketing farm products,
and to establish a warehouse, elevator, and flour mill
system under the name of "North Dakota Mill and Elevator Association" to be operated by the State. [Laws 1919,
c. 152.] The purpose is declared that the State shall
engage in the business of manufacturing farm products
and for that purpose shall establish a system of warehouses, elevators, flour mills, factories, plants, machinery

GREEN v. FRAZIER.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

and equipment, owned, controlled and operated by it
under the name of the "North Dakota Mill and Elevator
Association." The Industrial Commission is placed in
control of the Association with full power, and it is authorized to acquire by purchase, lease or right of eminent domain, all necessary property or properties, etc.; to buy,
manufacture, store, mortgage, pledge, sell and exchange
all kinds of raw and manufactured farm food products,
and by-products, and to operate exchanges, bureaus,
markets and agencies within and without the State,
and in foreign countries. Provision is made for the bringing of a civil action against the State of North Dakota on
account' of causes of action arising out of the business.
An appropriation is made out of state funds, together with
the funds procured from the sale of state bonds, to be
designated as the capital of the Association. (6) An act
providing for the issuing of bonds of the State of North
Dakota in a sum not exceeding $5,000,000, to be known as
"Bonds of North Dakota, Mill and Elevator Series,"
providing for a tax and making other provisions for the
payment of the bonds, and appropriations for the payment of interest and principal thereof. [Laws 1919, c. 153.]
The bonds are to be issued and sold for the purpose of
carrying on the business of the Mill & Elevator Association. The faith and credit of the State of North Dakota
are pledged for the payment of the bonds, both principal
and interest. These bonds may be purchased with furds
in the Bank of North Dakota. Taxes are provided k'or
sufficient to pay the bonds, principal and interest, taking
into account the earnings of the Association. The sum of
$10,000 is appropriated from the general funds of the State
to carry the provisions of the act into effect. (7) The
Home Building Act declares the purpose of the State to
engage in the enterprise of providing homes for its residents and to that end to establish a business system operated by it under the name of "The Home Building Associa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

tion of North Dakota"; and defines its duties and the
extent of its powers. [Laws 1919, c. 150.] The Industrial
Commission is placed in control of "The Home Building
Association," and is given the power of eminent domain,
and the right to purchase and lease the requisite property.
Provision is made for the formation of home building
unions. The price of town homes is placed at $5,000, and
of farm homes at $10,000. A bond issue of $2,000,000,
known as "Bonds of North Dakota Home Building
Series," is provided for.
There are certain principles which must be borne in
mind in this connection, and which must control the decision of this court upon the federal question herein involved. This legislation was adopted under the broad
power of the State to enact laws raising by taxation such
sums as are deemed necessary to promote purposes essential to the general welfare of its people. Before the
adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment this power of
the State was unrestrained by any federal authority.
That Amendment introduced a new limitation upon state
power into the Federal Constitution. The States were
forbidden to deprive persons of life, liberty and property
without due process of law. What is meant by due process of law this court has had frequent occasion to consider, and has always declined to give a precise meaning,
preferring to leave its scope to judicial decisions when
cases from time to time arise. Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78, 100.
The due process of law clause contains no specific limitation upon the right of taxation in the States, but it has
come to be settled that the authority of the States to tax
does not include the right to impose taxes for merely
private purposes. Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley,
164 U. S. 112, 155. In- that case the province of this
court in reviewing the power of state taxation. was thoroughly discussed by the late Mr. Justice Peckham speak-

GREEN v. FRAZIER.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

ing for the court. Concluding the discussion of that
subject (p. 158) the Justice said: "In the Fourteenth
Amendment the provision regarding the taking of private
property is omitted, and the prohibition against the State
is confined to its depriving any person of life, liberty or
property, without due process of law. It is claimed,
however, that the citizen is deprived of his property
without due process of law, if it be taken by or under state
authority for any other than a public use, either under
the guise of taxation or by the assumption of the right
of eminent domain. In that way the question whether
private property has been taken for any other than a
public use becomes material in this court, even where the
taking is under the authority of the State instead of the
Federal government." Accepting this as settled by the
former adjudications of this court, the enforcement of
the principle is attended with the application of certain
rules equally well settled.
The taxing power of the States is primarily vested in
their legislatures, deriving their authority from the people.
When a state legislature acts within the scope of its authority it is responsible to the people, and their right to
change the agents to whom they have entrusted the
power is ordinarily deemed a sufficient check upon its
abuse. When the constituted authority of the State
undertakes to exert the taxing power, and the question of
the validity of its action is brought before this court,
every presumption in its favor is indulged, and only clear
and demonstrated usurpation of power will authorize
judicial interference with legislative action.
In the present instance under the authority of the constitution and laws prevailing in North Dakota the people,
the legislature, and the highest court of the State have
declared the purpose for which these several acts were
passed to be of a public nature, and within the taxing
authority of the State. With this united action of people,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

legislature and court, we are not at liberty to interfere
unless it is clear beyond reasonable controversy that
rights secured by the Federal Constitution have been
violated. What is a public purpose has given rise to no
little judicial consideration. Courts, as a rule, have attempted no judicial definition of a" public" as distinguished
from a "private" purpose, but have left each case to be
determined by its own peculiar circumstances. Gray,
Limitations of Taxing Power, ยง 176, "Necessity alone is
not the test by which the limits of State authority in this
direction are to. be defined, but a wise statesmanship must
look beyond the expenditures which are absolutely needful to the continued existence of organized government,
and embrace others which may tend to make that government subserve the general well-being of society, and
advance the present and prospective happiness and
prosperity of the people." Cooley, Justice, in People v.
Salem, 20 Michigan, 452. Questions of policy are not
submitted to judicial determination, and the courts have
no general authority of supervision over the exercise of
discretion which under our system is reposed in the
people or other departments of government. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S.
549, 569; German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233
U. S. 389.
With the wisdom of such legislation, and the soundness of the economic policy involved we are not concerned. Whether it will result in ultimate good or harm
it is not within our province to inquire.
We come now to examine the grounds upon which the
Supreme Court of North Dakota held this legislation not
to amount to a taking of property without due process
of law. The questions involved were given elaborate
consideration in that court, and it held, concerning. what
may in general terms be denominated the "banking
legislation," that it was justified for the purpose of pro-

GREEN v. FRAZIER.
233.

Opinion of the Court.

viding banking facilities, and to enable the State to carry
out the purposes of the other acts, of which the Mill &
Elevator Association Act is the principal one. It justified the Mill & Elevator Association Act by the peculiar
situation in the State of North Dakota, and particularly
by the great agricultural industry of the State. It estimated from facts of which it was authorized to take
judicial notice, that 90% of the wealth produced by the
State was from agriculture; and stated that upon the
prosperity and welfare of that industry other business and
pursuits carried on in the State were largely dependent;
that the State produced 125,000,000 bushels of wheat
each year. The manner in which the present system of
transporting and marketing this great crop prevents the
realization of what are deemed just prices was elaborately
stated. It was affirmed that the annual loss from these
sources (including the loss of fertility to the soil and the
failure to feed the by-products of grain to stock within
the State), amounted to fifty-five millions of dollars to
the wheat raisers of North Dakota. It answered the contention that the industries involved were private in their
nature, by stating that all of them belonged to the State
of North Dakota, and therefore the activities authorized
by the legislation were to be distinguished from business of a private nature having private gain for its
objective.
As to the Home Building Act, that was sustained because of the promotion of the general welfare in providing homes for the people, a large proportion of whom
were tenants moving from place to place. It was believed
and affirmed by the Supreme Court of North Dakota
that the opportunity to secure and maintain homes would
promote the general welfare, and that the provisions of
the statutes to enable this feature of the system to become
effective would redound to the general benefit.
As we have said, the question for us to consider and de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

termine is whether this system of legislation is violative
of the Federal Constitution because it amounts to a taking of property without, due process of law. The precise
question herein involved so far as we have been able to
discover has never been presented to this court. The
nearest approach to it is found in Jones v. City of Portland,
245 U. S. 217, in which we held that an act of the State
of Maine authorizing cities or towns to establish and
maintain wood, coal and fuel yards for the purpose of
selling these necessaries to the inhabitants of cities and
towns, did not deprive taxpayers of due process of law
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. In
that case we reiterated the attitude of this court towards
state legislation, and repeated what had been said before,
that what was or was not a public use was a question
concerning which local authority, legislative and judicial,
had especial means of securing information to enable
them to form a judgment; and particularly, that the
judgment of the highest court of the State declaring a
given use to be public in its nature, would be accepted by
this court unless clearly unfounded. In -that case the
previous decisions of this court, sustaining this proposition, were cited with approval, and a quotation was made
from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Maine justifying the legislation under the conditions prevailing in that
State. We think the principle of that decision is applicable here.
This is not a case of undertaking to aid private institutions by public taxation as was the fact in Citizens'
Savings & Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 665.
In many instances States and municipalities have in late
years seen fit to enter upon projects to promote the public welfare which in the past have been considered entirely
within the domain of private enterprise.
Under the peculiar conditions existing in North Dakota,
which are emphasized in the opinion of its highest court,

SCOTT v. FRAZIER.
233.

Counsel for Parties.

if the State sees fit to enter upon such enterprises as are
here involved, with the sanction of its constitution, its
legislature and its people, we are not prepared to say that
it is within the authority of this court, in enforcing the
observance of the Fourteenth Amendment, to set aside
such action by judicial decision.
Affirmed.

SCOTT ET AL. v. FRAZIER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 508.

Argued April 19, 20, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

A suit by taxpayers to enjoin payment of public moneys and issuance

of bonds by a State, in which jurisdiction is invoked solely because
of alleged violation of their constitutional rights, cannot be entertained by the District Court if it is not alleged that the loss or injury
to any complainant amounts to &3,000. P. 244.

258 Fed. Rep. 669, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. C. Young, Mr. Tracy R. Bangs and Mr. C. J.
Murphy for appellants.
Mr. S. L. Nuchols and Mr. W. S. Lauder, with whom
Mr. William Langer, Attorney General of the State of
North Dakota, was on the brief, for appellees.
Mr. Frederic A. Pike, with whom Mr. William Lemke
was on the brief, for Frazier, Governor, Hagan, Commissioner of Agriculture and Labor, and the Industrial Commission of North Dakota, appellees.

