OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

253 U. S.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
ORIGINAL, AND APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURTS OF THE
UNITED ,STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS,
THE WESTERN DISTRICT

OF KENTUCKY,

THE DISTRICT

OF NEW JERSEY) THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN,
AND THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 29, 30, Original; and Nos. 696, 752, 788, 794, 837.-Argued March 8,
9, 10, 29, 30, 1920.-Decided June 7, 1920.
The adoption by both houses of Congress, each by a two-thirds vote,
of a joint resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution
sufficiently shows that the proposal was deemed necessary by all
who voted for it. An express declaration that they regarded it as
necessary is not essential. P. 386.
The two-thirds vote in each house which is required in proposing an
-amendment is a vote of two-thirds of the members present-assuming
the presence of a quorum-and not a vote of two-thirds of the entire
membership, present and absent. Id. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Kansas, 248 U. S. 276.
The referendum provisions of state constitutions and statutes cannot
be applied, consistently with the Constitution of the United States,
in the ratification or rejection of amendments to it. Id. Hawke
v. Smith, ante, 221.
The prohibition of the manufacture, sale, transportation, importation
and exportation of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes, as
embodied in the Eighteenth Amendment, is within the power to
amend reserved by Article V of the Constitution. Id.
That Amendment, by lawful proposal and ratification, has become a
.part of the Constitution, and must be respected and given effect the
.same as other provisions of that instrument. Id.
The first section of the Amendment-the one embodying the prohibition -'is operative thrQpghout the entire territorial limits of the
United States, binds all legislative bodies, courts, public officers and
individuals within those limits, and of its own force invalidates every
legislative act-whether by CongresQ, by a state legislature, or by
a territorial assembly--which authorizes or sanctions what the section
prohibits. Id.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Statement.

The second section of the Amendment-the one declaring "The
Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to,
enforce this article by appropriate legislation"-does not enableCongress or the several States to defeat or thwart the prohibition,
but only to enforce it by appropriate means. P. 387.
The words "concurrent power" in that section do not mean joint
power, or require that legislation thereunder by Congress, to be
effective, shall be approved or sanctioned by the several States or
any of them; nor do they mean that the power to enforce is divided
between Congress and the several States along the lines which
separate or distinguish foreign and interstate commerce from intrastate affairs. Id.
The power confided to Congress by that section, while not exclusive, is
territorially coextensive with the prohibition of the first section, embraces manufacture and other iitrastate transactions as well as importation, exportation and interstate traffic, and is in no wise dependent on or affected by action or inaction on the part of the several
States or any of them. Id.
That power may be exerted against the disposal for beverage purposes
of liquors manufactured before the Amendment became effective
just as it may be against subsequent manufacture for those purposes. In either case it is a constitutional mandate or prohibition
that is being enforced. Id.
While there are limits beyond which Congress cannot go in treating
beverages as within its power of enforcement, those limits are not
transcended by the provision of the National Prohibition Act.
(Title II, § 1), wherein liquors containing as much as one-half:of one
per cent. of alcohol by volume and fit for use for beverage purposes
are treated as within that power. Id. Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251
U. S. 264.
Nos. 29 and 30, Original, bills dismissed; No. 794, reversed; Nos. 696,
752, 788 (264 Fed. Rep. 186), and 837, affirmed.
THE seven cases here given one name for convenient

reference involved the validity of the Eighteenth Amendment and of certain general features of the National

Prohibition Act designed for its enforcement. They were
as follows:
No. 29, Original. State of Rhode Island v. A. Mitchell
Palmer, Attorney General, and Daniel C. Roper, Commis-.
sioner of Internal Revenue. Bill dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Statement.

253 U. S.

No. 30, Original. State of New Jersey v. A. Mitchell
Palmer, Attorney General, and Daniel C. Roper, Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Bill dismissed.
-No. 696. George C. Dempsey v. Thomas J. Boynton,
United States Attorney for Massachusetts, and Andrew J.
Casey, Acting Collector of Internal Revenue for Massachusetts. Appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the District of Massachusetts. Decree refusing injunction affirmed.
No. 752. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Company
v. W. V. Gregory, District Attorney for the United States
for the Western Districtof Kentucky, and Elwood Hamilton,
Collector of Internal Revenue for the Collection District
of Kentucky. Appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Kentucky. Decree
refusing injunction affirmed.
No. 788. ChristianFeigenspan,a corporation,v. Joseph
L. Bodine, United States Attorney for the District of New
Jersey, and Charles V. Duffey, Collector of Internal Revenue
of the Fifth District of New Jersey. Appeal from the District Court of the United States for the District of New
Jersey. Decree refusing injunction affirmed.
No. 794. Hiram A. Sawyer, as United States Attorney
for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, Burt Williams, as
Collector of Internal Revenue of the Second District of Wisconsin, and Thomas A. Delaney, as Federal Prohibition
Enforcement Director for Wisconsin v. Manitowoc Products Company. Appeal from the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin.
Decree granting injunction reversed.
No. 837. St. Louis Brewing Association, a corporation,
v. George H. Moore, Collector of Internal Revenue of the
First Districtof Missouri, Walter L. Hensley, United States
Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri, and Frank L.
Diggs, Prohibition Agent for the First Internal Revenue
District of Missouri. Appeal from the District Court of

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

33,

Counsel for Parties.

the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri.
Decree refusing injunction affirmed.
Mr. HerbertA. Rice, Attorney General of Rhode Island,
for the plaintiff in No. 29, Original. Mr. A. A. Capotosto,
Assistant Attorney General, was on the briefs. See post,
p. 354.
Mr. Thomas F. McCran, Attorney General of New
Jersey, for the plaintiff in No. 30, Original. Mr. FrancisH.
McGee, Assistant Attorney General, was on the briefs.
See post, p. 356.
Mr. Patrick Henry Kelley for the appellant in No. 696.
See post, p. 357.
Mr. Levy Mayer and Mr. William Marshall Bullitt for
the appellant in No. 752. See post, p. 357.
Mr. Elihu Root and Mr. William D. Guthrie for the
appellant in No. 788. Mr. Robert Crain and Mr. Bernard
Hershkopf were on the briefs. See pos t , pp. 361, 368.
Mr. Ralph W. Jackman for the appellee in No. 794.
Mr. William H. Austin was on the brief. See post, p. 380.
Mr. Charles A. Houts, Mr. John T. Fitzsimmons and
Mr. Edward C. Crow, for the appellant in No. 837, submitted. See post, p. 380.
The Solicitor General and Mr. William L. Frierson,
Assistant Attorney Geol1 -' the United States, for the
defendants in No. 29, Original, the appellees in Nos. 752
and 788, and the appellants in No. 794. Mr. Friersonfor
the defendants in No. 30, Original, and for the appellees in
No. 696, The Solicitor General appearing also on the briefs

if

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for thee State of Rhode Island.

253 U. S.

in those cases. The Solicitor General and Mr. Frierson,
for the appellees in No. 837, submitted. See post, p. 381.
By leave of court, briefs of amici curice were filed, viz:
By Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with the attorneys general of
numerous States, supporting the motions to dismiss the
bill in No. 29, Original, and against the appeal in No.
752; by Mr. Elihu Root with Messrs. William D. Guthrie,
Robert Crain and Bernard Hershkopf, supporting the bill
in No. 29, Original; by Mr. Alexander Lincoln with Mr.
Michael J. Lynch, supporting the bills in Nos. 29 and 30,
Original; by Mr. Adron A. Ferris, supporting the bill in
No. 29, Original; by Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler with Messrs.
George S. Hobart, G. Rowland Monroe, R. C. Minton,
J. A. White, B. W. Hicks, E. L. McIntyre and Walter H.
Bender, against the appeals in Nos. 696, 752 and 788, and
supporting the -appeal in No. 794; and by Mr. Levi
Cooke with Mr. George R. Beneman, supporting the
appeal in No. 788.
The chief contentions made in the numerous arguments
will be here indicated as fairly as space limits permitmore fully in some of the cases to avoid undue abridgment and repetition in all.
Mr. Rice, for the State of Rhode Island, in No. 29, Original, confined his argument to the validity of the Amendment. Various objections were stated, the one chiefly
elaborated being that the Amendment is an invasion of the
sovereignty of the complaining State and her people, not
contemplated by the amending clause of the Constitution.
The amending power, it was contended, is not a substantive power but a precautionary safeguard inserted incidentally to insure the ends set forth in that instrument
against errors-and oversights committed in its formation.
Amendments, as the term indeed implies, are to be limited
to the correction of such errors.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES
350.

355

Argument for the State of Rhode Isand.

The doctrine that any and every change may be intrdducedi in guise of amendment is a novelty subyersive of
fundamental principles. It would bring about a constitutional revolution, converting the sovereignty of the people
into a sovereignty of officials. It would permit the
boundary between federal and state authority, established
by the Constitution, to be shifted at will, as officials
might be influenced by political cowardice or ex3pediency,
and would ultimately reduce the States to mere dependencies of the Federal Government.
All sovereignty resides in the people. The Constitution
therefore was submitted for ratification to conventions
chosen directly by the people. The possibility of federal
encroachment upon state sovereignty was the subject of
principal concern when the Constitution was in process of
adoption, and, practically as a part of the process, the
first ten amendments were added to prevefit such encroachments. And it was generally understood and agreed
that the boundaries set between state and federal powers
were fundamental and permanent.
It is "This Constitution" that may be amended.
"This Constitution" is not a code of transient laws but a
framework of governmenOt and an embodiment of fundamental principles. By dn amendment, the identity or
purpose of the instrument is not to be changed; its defects
may be cured, but "This Constitution" must remain. It
would be the greatest absurdity to contend that there was
a purpose to create a limited governmeiit and at the same
time to confer upon that government a power to do away
with its own limitations. All of -the prior amendments
have been declaratory and interpretative or have had relation to a power or to a subject-matter dealt with in the
instrument itself. The amending function (under Art. .V)
is purely federal. The State is not a party to an amendment and her people do not participate. A legislature in
ratifying does not act for the State and cannot limit her

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the State of New Jersey.

253 U. S.

::sovereign powers. A State is bound in respect of sovereign powers only by. the explicit act of her whole people.
To be valid, an amendment must have such relation to
the general grant of powers and to the scope and purposes of the Constitution as will carry an implication of
assent on the part of the people of the United States,
springing from their adoption. of the Constitution.
In the case of this so-called amendment, the representatives of the people of the United States have attempted,
not to amend the Constitution of the United States, but
to amend the constitution of every State in the Union.
If the amending function is construed as coextensive with
absolute sovereignty, then the basis of our political
system is no longer the right of the people of a State to
make and alter their constitution, for their political
institutions are at the mercy of others and may be changed
against their will.
Mr. McCran, for the State of New Jersey, in No. 30,
Original, attacked the Amendment as an invasion of
state sovereignty not authorized by the amending clause
and as not, properly speaking, an amendment, but legislation, revolutionary in character.
The right to amend the Constitution, in the manner
provided by Article V, is a right incident to the powers of
the citizens of the United States as distinguished from the
right of the citizens of the respective States; no amendment can be made not of right belonging to the citizenship
of the United States; all powers not enumerated and not
.of right belonging to the citizenship of the United States,
Iare reserved to the respective States under Article X,
(including the right to legislate concerning the manufacture,
'use and sale intrastate of intoxicating liquors.
The Amendment is also invalid because its proposal was
not affirmatively voted by two-thirds in number of both
houses of Congress, and because the proposal did not on

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 752.

its face disclose that both houses deemed the Amendment
necessary.
Three-fourths of the States have not ratified it in the
constitutional sense, because, in a number of the States
counted, the proposal has been, or is subject to be, referred to the people, in pursuance of their constitutions.
Concurrent power under the Amendment is a power in
the Federal Government to enforce it only as it relates to
the external concerns of the United States or to the
domain of the Federal Government in the regulation of
interstate commerce heretofore recognized, as distinguished from the right of the State of New Jersey to
enforce the Amendment intrastate by virtue of the power
conferred upon her exclusively under the Amendment.
The National Prohibition Act' is not appropriate legislation under the Amendment. It purports to regulate
the manufacture, possession, sale and use of beverages
which are not intoxicating and of liquor devoted to medicinal, and other non-beverage uses.
Mr. Patrick Henry Kelley, for the appellant in No. 696,
took the ground that the Amendment is not self-executing;
that, until it is put in execution in the manner prescribed,
the existing laws of the States concerning intoxicating
liquors must stand unaffected; and that the only way in
which the laws and sovereign powers of the States could
be superseded under it would be by legislation enacted by
the concurrent 'power of Congress and the several States
in the only manner provided for such concurrent action,
viz., as authorized by Article V of the Constitution.
Mr. Levy Mayer and Mr. William Marshall'Bullitt
for the appellant in No. 752:
. The power of "amendment" contained in Art. V does
not authorize the invasion of the sovereign powers expressly reserved to the'States and the people by the Ninth

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 752.

253 U. S.

"and Tenth Amendments, except with the consent of all
the States. If it be argued that the expression of one exception in Art. V negatives the possibility of others to
be implied, the answer is to be found in the contrary
principle of construction applied by this court to Art. I,
§ 7, in Hollingsworth v. Virginia, 3 Dall. 378, that the
existence of one exception to a power does not make the
power unlimited in all other respects, but that there may
be other qualifications or exceptions not expressed literally.
If amendment under Art. V were unlimited,
threefourths of the legislatures would have it in their power to
establish a state religion and prohibit free exercise of'
other religious beliefs; to quarter a standing army in the
houses of citizens; to do away with trial by jury and republican form of government; to repeal the provision for a
president; and to abolish this court and with it the whole
judicial. power vested by the Constitution. See Ableman
v. Booth, 21 How. 506, 52L They might form several
new States within other States, and, at the same time,
form one State by the junction of two or more others
(while still giving the old States their equal suffrage in
the Senate), and thus concentrate the entire power of the
Government in the hands of a few States acting in concert.
Indeed; if such right to amend exists, then the threefourths required by Art. V can be reduced to a majority
or even a minority of the legislatures, or the requirement
be dispensed with entirely.
A construction should be judged by its consequences.
The fact that a construction "radically changes the whole
theory of the relations of ihe State and Federal Governments to each other and of both these governments to
the peopl " is an irresistible argument against it, "in the
abeqnce of language which expresses such a purpose too
clearly to admit of doubt." Slaughter-House Cases, 16

Wall. 36, 78.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 752.

The Ninth and Tenth Amendments must be read, with
the whole Constitution, exactly as* if they had been a
part of it from the outset. Before their adoption they
were implied, and, after their adoption, they were, by
Art. V, "to all intents and purposes part of this Constitution." Martin v. Hunter's Lessee,,,1 Wheat. 304, 325;
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405; Collector v.
Day, 11 Wall. 113, 124; Gordon v.. United States, 117 U. S.
697, 705; 2 Elliot's Debates, pp. 435, 436.
"The power of amending the Constitution was intended
to apply to amendments which would modify the mode
of carrying into effect the original provision6 and powers
of the Constitution, but not to enable three-fourths of the
States to grasp new power at the expense of any unwilling
State." Curtis, Const. History of the United 'States,
vol. 2, p. 160. Every one of the preceding seventeen
amendments is concerned with and pertains to "the original provisions and powers of the Constitution." In addition, the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments were the result of the arbitrament of war, and their
acceptance by the seceding States was made a condition
of their readmission into the Union.
If it be decided that the legislatures of three-fourths of
the States may, by ratification, validate any amendment,
"the indestructible Union of indestructible States" will
turn out to be a mere dream and the States will cease "to
be coexistent with the National Government." Texas v.
White, 7 Wall. 700, 725; Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall.
71, 76; Railroad Co. v. Penisto.., 18 Wall. 5, 31.
It is a well-known and established historical fact that
the Constitution was ratified by the original States with
the distinct agreement that the Bill of Rights expounded
in the firstten amendments would be immediately adopted.
The States went into the Union with the understanding
that by these amendments the sovereignty of the several
States would be perpetually preserved, against all federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 752.

253 U. S.

encroachments, and no sound reason can be advanced for
maintaining that the Ninth and Tenth Amendments did
not forever preserve such sovereignty. The powers reserved by those amendments are powers reserved from
the operation of Art. V, as well as from the operation
of any other articles-of the Constitution.
Two-thirds of both houses of Congress did not vote
to propose the Eighteenth Amendment; and hence, it
was never properly submitted to the States for ratification.
The Eighteenth Amendment has not been ratified by
the legislatures of three-fourths of the States. Of the
forty-five States which have purported to ratify it, one
of them,--Ohio,-has rejected the Amendment by popular vote; and in twelve others petitions for a referendum
with respect to the Amendment have been presented, but
have not yet been submitted to the electorate. In these
States the people have reserved the right to make themselves a part of the "legislature."
The Eighteenth Amendment, like Art. V, must be construed with the other provisions of the Constitution
(Proutv. Starr, 188 U. S. 537), including the Fifth Amendment, which, being for the security of person and property,
should be construed liberally. Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616, 635. The allegations of the bill in this case,
which are, admitted, establish that the plaintiff could not
possibly have sold its stock of whiskey before the Amendment became effective, and that the demand for nonbeverage purposes will be insignificant. To deprive of
the power of sale is to take the property itself. Buchanan
v. Warley, 245 U. S. 60, 74; United States v. Cress, 243
U. S. 316; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; Wynehamer v. People, 13 N. Y. 378, 387, 389, 396, 398. The
liquor has therefore been taken by the Government for
a public use, viz., for the protection of the people of the
United States from the alleged evils of the traffic in intoxicating licuors. This court, as is pointed out in Hamil-

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

ton v. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Co., 251 U. S.
146, has never held that even statutes passed pursuant
to the police power of the State could be applied to liquor
acquired before the enactment of the prohibitory law.
One of the judgments' affirmed in Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623, referred to in Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S.
at p. 302, was for violation of the act by selling beer acquired before its enactment, but the beer involved was
acquired after the enactment of the prohibition amendment to the constitution of Kansas, pursuant to which
the law was passed. -If an attempt be made to extend the
doctrine of the Hamilton Case, supra, so as to hold that
the Volstead Act does not appropriate stocks of liquor
existing before the Eighteenth Amendment was proposed
by Congress, because an insignificant non-beverage use
is still permitted, it is sufficient to call attention to the
irreconcilable conflict between such contention and the
rule in Buchanan v. Warley, supra. Although the pro-.
hibition of a particular physical use to which property
may be put (so long as the possession and title thereto
are not interfered with) may under some circumstances
not constitute a taking in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, even if the monetary value be reduced
(Mugler v. Kansas, supra), yet when, as here, the owner of
the property is deprived .of tle rights of sale, transportation, and even of possession and use (except in a few limited instances) there is a taking of property. The whiskey sought here to be protected was manufactured on the
faith of the rules of property established by decisions of
this court.
Mr. Root for the appellant in No. 788:
I. The substantive and 'operative part of the so-called
Eighteenth Amendment is contained in its first section.
This provision does not relate to the powers or organization of government, as does an ordinary constitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

253 U. S.

provision. On the contrary, it is itself an exercise of the
legislative power of government, and a direct act of legislation regulating the conduct of life of the individual. The
first question before the court is, therefore, whether Article V of the Constitution authorizes any amendment which
in substance and effect is merely a police regulation or
statute.
To uphold such a power of amendment would do violence
to what Hamilton (Federalist, No. 22, p. 135, Ford's ed.)
described as "the fundamental maxim of republican government

.

.

.

which requires that the sense of the

majority should prevail." If the so-called Eighteenth
Amendment be a valid part of the Constitution, its repeal
can hereafter be perpetually prevented by a minority, for
if but one State more than one-fourth of the States refuse
to assent thereto, it is irrepealable. The census of 1910
disclosds that there are in the Union thirteen States whose,
aggregate population does not equal five per cent. of the
entire population of theU'nfited States. Consequently,
however vast the majority of the population in the future
may be who are persuaded by experience that this direct
legislative regulation of their lives and personal habits was
or, has become unwise and unnecessary, they will be helpless to change the law if there be dissent on the part of a
minority representing only five per cent. of the population
or perhaps less.
There is plainly a distinction in this respect between the
so-called amendment as adopted and as it would be if it
had conferred power upon Congress to prohibit the use of
intoxicating liquors. An amendment in the latter form
would, it is true, be precisely as irrepealable as the one
here in question, but the, conduct of individual life thereunder would at all times be within the control of representatives of the majority of the people. Congress would
then have the power to prohibit intoxicants or not,
completely or qualifiedly, as it from time to time deemed

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

best; and if the majority of the people then desired
prohibition, 'Congress could respond to their wish; and if,
on the other hand, the majority thereafter became persuaded that extreme prohibition was no longer necessary, in that respect also Congress could effectuate the
will of the people. In every -free government the direct
regulation of the lives of the people by legislation should
at all times be in the hands of the majority, however the
powers of government may be distributed and allocated.
This fundamental consideration differentiates sharply
the Eighteenth Amendment from the Thirteenth Amendment, to which the Eighteenth bears a superficial resemblance. As is now universally conceded, slavery was the
creation of positive law, and it was always unauthorized
unless some exercise of government permitted it. A
constitutional declaration that slavery was prohibited,
would, therefore, in substance, be only the withdrawal
from every governmental authority of the power to license
or permit involuntary servitude. That amendment,
consequently, only affected the powers of government,
and did not constitute, as does the so-called Eighteenth
Amendment, a direct legislative exercise of those powers.
Article V of the Constitution should not be construed
to confer unlimited legislative power upon the amending
authorities. To assume that it does is inconsistent with
the plain provision of § 1 of Article I of the Constitution that "all legislative powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States," and with the
terms of Article V itself, as the proceedings of the Constitutional Convention disclose that the framers themselve.s
understood those terms. ' The framers undoubtedly re.
garded the power to amend only as authorizing the in.clusion of matter of the same general character as the
instrument or thing to be amended; and as all the constitutions of their day were concerned solely with the
distribution and limitation of the -powers of government,

OCTOBEa TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

253 U. S.

and not with the direct exercise thereof by the constitution makers themselves, no amendment of the latter sort
would have been deemed appropriate or germane by them..
It does not advance the discussion to urge that the
people can adopt any amendment to the Constitution they
see fit. No doubt an amendirent of any sort could be
adopted by the same means as were employed in the
adoption of the Constitution itself. In that manner alone
do or can the people themselves act. But the amending
authorities provided for in Article V of the Constitution,
as clearly appears from the debates in the Constitutional
Convention, are only agents of the people and not the
people themselves. They must, therefore, act within the
authority conferred in Article V, and that authority does
not embrace the right under color of amendment to adopt
mere sumptuary laws which are not constitutional
amendments in truth or essence. The people could by
appropriate proceedings amend the Constitution so as to
impair such vital rights as freedom of religion, but it is"
inconceivable that any such unlimited power has been
delegated to the amending agents, who may represent but
a minority of the people. The census discloses, that there
are three-fourths of the States of the Union whose. total
population amounts to less than forty-five per cent. of the
people of the United States, and two-thirds of a quorum of
both houses of Congress may,, therefore, likewise represent
only a minority of the population.
Ratification by state legislatures does not as matter of
fact provide an opportunity for the people to express their
will regarding the proposed Eighteenth Amendment as
the calling of conventions might have done. Thus, for
example, the Missouri legislature ratified it, notwithstanding an express provision of the Missouri constitution
(Art. II, § 3) forbidding them so to do, and in Ohio
ratification by the legislature was subsequently rejected
by the people at the polls, while in other States the people

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

365

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

have been denied all right to have the question of ratification referred to them for approval.
If, as contended by the defendants, the power of
amendment vested in Congress and three-fourths of the
state legislatures be absolute and unrestricted, then there
would be no limitation whatever upon their legislative
authority. They could then by amendment establish
a state religion, or oppress or discriminate against any
denomination, or authorize the taking away of life, liberty
and property, without due process of law, etc., etc. This
would destroy the most essential limitation upon power
under the American system of government, which is that
the rights of the individual citizen shall be protected by
withholding from the legislative function the power to do
certain things inconsistent with individual liberty. This
was the reason of the irresistible demand for the first ten
amendments.
When the Federal Constitution was adopted, the people
of practically every State had limited by bills of rights
their own governments in their own States, which were
composed of men elected by themselves. We are not at
liberty to assume that in and by Article V it was contemplated that they were vesting legislative power without
limitation in the Congress and the legislatures of threequarters of the States. For these reasons and others it
is submitted that the adoption of the so-called Eighteenth
Amendment by the agents of the people was beyond the
amending power of such agents and therefore invalid.'
Journal of Constitutional Convention of 1787, pp. 370, 70; 3
Documentary History of U. S. Constitution, pp. 405, 409, 410, 518;
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 403, 407; Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264, 389; State ex rel. Mullen v. Howell, 107 Washington, 167;
Opinion of the Justices, 118 Maine, 544; Federalist, No. 33 (Ford's ed.),
pp. 202, 260, 263; 2 Elliot's Debates, pp. 126, 128, 364; 4 id., pp. 144,
176, 188; 1 Bryce's American Commonwealth, p. 350; Story on the
Constitution, 5th ed., § 352; Cooley on Constitutional Limitations,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

253 U. S.

II. The Eighteenth Amendment, furthermore, if
valid, would tend to undermine a fundamental principle
of our federal system. As Chief Justice Chase declared in
Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725, "the Constitution, in all
its provisions, looks to an indestructible Union, composed
of indestructible States." Manifestly, the federal system
of government created in the Constitution contemplated
indestructible States-not indestructible geographic units
merely, but indestructible self-governing, local sovereignties. The establishment of our dual system of government
must necessarily imply that neither government shall be
permitted to destroy the other, and that the States must
be preserved, not as mere electoral and administrative
districts of a unified and consolidated national government, but as true local, self-governing sovereignties,
inviolate and indestructible members of a dual, and not a
consolidated, system of government, and with a perma7th ed., pp. 2-4, 50; Jameson on Constitutional Conventions, 4th ed.,
§§ 63, 85; Vanhorne's Lessee v. Dorrance, 2 Dall. 304, 308; Century
Dictionary, tit. "Constitution"; Encyclopiedia Britannica (9th ed.),
tit. "Constitution"; Holland's Jurisprudence, 11th ed., p. 365; The
Constitutional Review, April, 1918, p. 97; Mass. Law Quarterly, May,
1918, p. 334; Southern Pac. Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.205, 227; Federalist, No. 15 (Ford's ed.), p. 87; Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, 176;
In re Pennsylvania Tel. Co., 2 Chester Co. Rep. 129; 5 Hinds' Precedents, §§ 575.3, 5767; ,Gagnon v. United States, 193 U. S. 451, 457;
Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 144;. Federalist No. 43 (Ford's ed.),
p. 291; id., No. 85, p. 586; 3 Elliot's Debates, pp. 233-4; Commonwealth
v. Griest, 196 Pa. St. 396, 404; Warfield v. Vandiver, 101 Md. 78;
Livermore v. Waite, 102 Cal. 113, 118, 119; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, 187, 188; Calderv. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 388; Fletcherv. Peck, 6 Cranch,
87, 139; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 663; Murphy v.
Ramsey, 114 U. S. 15, 44; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 127; Hollingsworth v. Virginia, 3 Dall. 378; Madison's Notes, Sept. 12, 1787, p. 720,
Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 720,
724; Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, 192; 3 Elliot's Debates,
pp. 446-7; Somerset v. Stewart, 20 State Trials, 1, 82; 2 Mass. Law
Quarterly, pp. 437-44; Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall, 36, 67, 68.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

nent and effectual reason for being, namely, the possession
of the power and the right to exercise forever the functions
of internal and local self-government.
The so-called Eighteenth Amendment directly invades
the police powers of the States and directly encroaches
upon their right of local self-government. If this amendment be valid, then any amendment which directly impairs the police powers of the States and absolutely withdraws from them their right to local self-government in any
important particular, heretofore indisputably a matter
of internal concern, must likewise be valid. In other
words, if the so-called Eighteenth Amendment be lawful,
then the States are not in truth indestructible. It must
be manifest that the precedent necessarily erected by a
holding that the Eighteenth Amendment is constitutional,
would authorize the complete subversion of our dual and
federal system of government. It is submitted that the
authoi ity conferred in Article V to amend the Constitution
carries no power to destroy its federal principle in a most
fundaaental aspect.
The Civil War amendments afford no justification for
the Eighteenth Amendment. Their primary purpose was
to crystallize into the Constitution some of the essentials of
a free republican government, and it was expressly made
the constitutional duty of the Federal Government to
guarantee to the States such a form of government. This
federal duty the Civil War amendments helped to realize;
and the fact that, as an incident and indirectly, they
interfered to some extent with the Statr s is of no consequence. They are not like the Eighteenth Amendment,
which is germane to no original federal duty, and which
directly, primarily and deliberately invades the right of
the States to govern themselves.'
IMcCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 327, 403, 431; Cohens v.
Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 389; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725, 728;
Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, 275; Gordon v. United States, 117

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

253 U. S.

Mr. Guthrie for the appellant in No. 788:
The correct construction of § 2 of the Eighteenth
Amendment required the concurrence of the State of
New Jersey in any legislation of Congress regulating
internal or intrastate commerce in intoxicating liquors,
and conversely required the concurrence of Congress in

any legislation of the State regulating interstate or foreign
commerce in intoxicating liquors; but that section did
not impair or qualify the existing reserved power of the
several States independently to regulate their own internal or intrastate commerce or the existing power of
U. S. 697, 701, 705; Rathbone v. Wirth, 150 N. Y. 459, 470, 483-4;
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 388; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall.
655, 662-3; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 541; Collector v. Day, 11

Wall. 113, 124, 125, 127; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 290-1;
Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S. i5, 44; Matter of Fraserv. Brown, 203 N.
Y. 136, 143;Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138, 148; Colon v. Lisk, 153
N. Y. 188, 194; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 439; Civil Rights

Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 11-15, 19, 20; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 554-6;
Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488, 505; South Carolinav. United States, 199
U. S. 437, 448, 451, 453-4; State ex rel. Mullen v. Howell, 107 Washington, 167; License Cases, 5 HIfw. 504, 583, 628; Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104, 11i; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 59; Ives v.
South Buffalo R. Co., 201 N. Y. 271, 300; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U.
S. 501, 503; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, id., 659, 667; Ex parte Rowe,
4 Ala. App. 254; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814, 819-20; N. Y. &
N. E. R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 567; Atlantic Coast Line R. R.

Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 558; 2 Hare on American Constitutional
Law, p. 766; Cooley on Constitutional Limitations (7th ed.), pp. 101-2,
243, 263; Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 629; Lane
County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 76; Ex parteBain, 121 U. S. 1, 12; Story on

the Constitution, § 1908; Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 67, 68,
70-1, 77-8; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 348;
Kentucky v. Dennison,24 How. 66, 107; Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S.
347,362; United States V.Railroad Co., 17 Wall.322,327;Pollock v.Farm-

er8' Loan & Tr. Co., 157 U.S. 429,584; Congressional Globe,38th Cong.,
1st sess., p. 2985; Elliot's Debates, vol. II, pp. 304, 309; vol. IV, pp. 53,
58; 2 Curtis on the Constitutional History of the United States, pp.
160-1; Miller on the Constitution, pp. 24, 412; 1 Tucker on the Con-

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

Congress .to regulate interstate or foreign commerce or the
internal commerce of the District of Columbia, the
Territories, or the Insular Possessions.
The prohibition contained in § 1 of the Amendment is
self-executing. Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 20. If
the Amendment contained no grant of power of enforcement, Congress would have complete power to enforce the
prohibition as it saw fit in interstate or foreign commerce
or domestically in the District of Columbia, etc., and the
States would have power to enforce it within their respective jurisdictions as to their intrastate or*internal commerce. But Congress then would have no power under
the Constitution to legislate in respect of the internal
commerce of a State even with its consent and a State
could not constitutionally legislate in respect of interstate
or foreign commerce without the assent or concurrence of
Congress. The second section of the Amendment granted
to Congress the additional or supplemental power to
authorize federal officers to enter the States and apply and
enforce the sanctions of federal or state legislation in
respect of their internal affairs provided the State concurred in such legislation, 'and it granted to the respective
States the power to apply and enforce their legislation or
the legislation of Congress against interstate and foreign
stitution, pp. 323-4; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 552, 554,
555; Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627, 647, 657; State v. Keith, 63 N.
Car. 140, 144; Eason v. State, 11 Ark. 481, 491; Coyle v. Oklahoma,
221 U. S. 559, 580;'2 Madison's Notes (Farrand), pp. 629-31; Maxwell
v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581, 601-2; State v. St. Louis & S. W. Ry. Co., 197
S.W. 1012, 1013 (Tex.); Alexander v. People, 7 Colo. 155, 167; Federalist (Ford's ed.), Nos. 39 and 43, pp. 251, 291-2; Spies v. Illinois, 123
U. S. 131, 161; Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 250; Minn. & St. Louis
R. R. v. Bombolis, 241 U. S. 211, 217; Bar6ie -v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27, 31; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, 138; Mugler v. Kansas, 123
U. S. 623,663; In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448,449; Stewart v. Kahn,
11 Wall. 493, 507; Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393; Cong. Globe,
39th Congress, 1st sess., pt. 3, p. 2766; id., pt. 4, p. 2961.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

253 U. S.

commerce, provided Congress concurred in such state
legislation.
This construction would give reasonable scope and
effect to § 2 and every word thereof; would be consistent
with the plan and provisions of the Constitution as a
whole; would recognize the dual sovereignty in our
federal system of Nation and State each supreme within
its own sphere; would tend to promote co6peration and
harmonious, effective, economical and satisfactory enforcement of the prohibition of intoxicating liquors, and
would be efficient, conservative and beneficent as a
practical method of enforcement. In other words, such a
construction would not interfere with the power of Nation
or State within their respective and exclusive spheres,
would provide for co6peration in enforcement when
found desirable, and would make fixed and permanent the
constitutional principle and the governmental policy
embodied in the acts of Congress known as the Wilson Act
of August 8, 1890, the Webb-Kenyon Act of March 1,
1913, and the Reed Amendment: of March 3, 1917. Indeed, the learned Assistant Attorney*General urged, after
referring to the decisions of the court in Clark Distilling
Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, and
United States v. Hill, 248 U. S.420, that § 2 of the Amendment in providing for concurrent power was not revolutionary or an innovation in principle, but made a permanent part of the Constitution the principle upon which
these three intoxicating liquor statutes of Congress had
been sustained.
Section 2 of the Amendment in providing for concurrent
power of enforcement is unique and unprecedented and a
departure from the precedents of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. The different form
was adopted and submitted to the States for their approval
undoubtedly because more likely to be acceptable ' if the
States were retaining a voice in regulations affectingtheir

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

own internal affairs. The controlling inquiry, however, is
not so much what Congress itself understood as what the
States reasonably understood from the language of the
proposed Amendment as submitted by Congress. State v.
St. Louis & S. W. Ry. Co., 197 S. W. 1012,1013; Alexander
v. People, 7 Colorado, 155, 167; White v. Hoyt, 73 N. Y. 505,
511. Did they understand that they were surrendering to
Congress their then exclusive legislative power over the
internal traffic in intoxicating liquors? Did they understand that they were turning over to Congress practically
supreme control over intrastate regulation in all its
phases? Would not such a radical ana far-reaching surrender and new delegation of power to Congress, in conflict with our traditions and history and our dual system,
have readily fouhd apt and direct expression?
Section 1 shows that the controlling thought of Congress was to secure national prohibition; and § 2 shows a
purpose to commend this main proposal to the States for
their acceptance by assuring them of the least possible
interference with their police powers. This would tend to
secure ratification when a proposition to surrender or
abdicate their police powers would probably have been
rejected. The question, therefore, upon which state legislatures voted was, Shall there be national prohibition
without loss of state control over local affairs? The
construction now urged by the Government, however,
would result practically in complete loss of state control.
Disguise it as they may, the learned counsel for the
Government ask the court to give no practical effect
whatever to the clause which was the inducement to the
States to ratify the proposed prohibition Amendment.
The history of the proposed Amendment in the Sixtyfifth Congress should be traced and the following facts
emphasized, namely, that both houses rejected the form
originally proposed which vested power in "the Congress
and the several States independently or concurrently to

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

253 U. S.

enforce" the proposed Amendment; that the Senate
adopted on August 1, 1917, a form limiting the power of
enforcement to Congress alone as in the prior constitutional amendments, that this form was not acceptable to
the House, and that the Amendment made by the House
.and concurred in by the Senate vested in "the Congress
and the several States . . . concurrent power to
enforce." The significance and effect of this amendment
cannot be disregarded unless it is to be held that the
change of wording made no change whatever in practical
meaning, and that the language of the modification made
by the House can be disregarded as of no practical effect
whatever notwithstanding "the elementary canon of
construction which requires that effect be given to every
word of the Constitution" as declared in Knowlton v.
Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 87; and see also Hurtado v. California,
110 U. S. 516, 534; Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540,
570-571; United States v. StandardBrewery, Inc., 251 U. S.
210, 218; Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65, 68; Newell
v. People, 7 N. Y. 9, 97; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed., p. 92.
Ordinary definitions of the adjective "concurrent"
show its current meaning to be "concurring or acting in
conjunction; agreeing in the same act, contributing to the
same event or effect; operating with; coincident" (Century Dictionary).
See also Webster and Standard
Dictionaries. The exact meaning can be determined by a
consideration of the subject-matter, probable purpose and
context. Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 19; 1
Story on the Constitution, § 455; Wedding v. Meyler,
192 U. S. 573, 584; In re Mattson, 69 Fed. Rep. 535,
542; Ex parte Desjeiro, 152 Fed. Rep. 1004, 1007; Nielsen.
v. Oregon, 212 U. S. 315.
For thirty years prior to the framing of the Eighteenth
Amendment there had \ been a public movement and
tendency to, secure co6peration, that is, concurrence,

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

between Nation and State in the regulation and prohibition of intoxicating liquors, as evidenced by the legislation
of Congress in the Wilson Act in 1890, the Webb-Kenyon
Act in 1913, and the Reed Amendment in 1917. The
Wilson Act was based upon the language of this court in
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.100, 119, which suggested that
the States could regulate interstate commerce in intoxicating liquors if Congress assented by appropriate legislation, and the act was upheld upon that theory, not only in
respect of interstate commerce, but in respect of foreign
commerce as well. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545; Delamater
v. South Dakota, 205 U. S. 93; De Bary v. Louisiana, 227
U. S. 108. In furtherance of this policy of cotperation
and concurrence with the States, which thus began with
the Wilson Law in 1890, Congress passed the WebbKenyon Law of 1913, and the Reed Amendment of 1917.
Vance v. Vandercook Company, 170 U. S. 438; Clark
Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311;
United States v. Hill, 248 U. S. 420. The Chief Justice declared in the ClarkDistilling Co. Case that the regulation of
intoxicating liquors was "a subject as to which both State
and Nation in their respective spheres of authority possessed supremest authority" and that "Congress in
adopting a regulation had considered the nature and
character of our dual system of government, State and
Nation, and instead of absolutely prohibiting, had so
conformed its regulation as to produce co6peration
between the local and national forces of government to the
end of preserving the rights of all." Slaughter-House
Case', 16 Wall. 36, 78. Under these acts of Congress
there was no uniformity as to regulation of interstate
commerce in intoxicating liquors, for such commerce was
subjected to the varying regulations of the respective
States.
The Eighteenth Amendment, therefore, embodied in a
permanent constitutional provision a principle that had

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
ArgUment for Appellant in No. 788.

253 U. S.

been judicially sustained as within the scope of the
constitutional power of Congress, though not without
dissent in this court and on the part of President Taft
and the then Attorney General, and it had been a matter
of grave constitutional controversy in Congress and in
the forum of public opinion whether the decisions of this
court were based on sound reasoning and tenable grounds.
The principal ground upon which the supremacy of the
National Prohibition Act was deduced by the learned
court below, even as to intrastate r-gulation, was that
by Article VI the Constitution and all laws and treaties
made in pursuance thereof are declared to be the supreme
law of the land, anything in any state constitution or
statute to the contrary notwithstanding. But Article
VI applies and controls only when an act of Congress is
passed in pursuance of the Constitution, and if the Eighteenth Amendment requiresthe concurrence of the State,
an act of Congress without such concurrence cannot be
said to have been passed in pursuance of the Constitution.
Indeed, it should logically and reasonably follow that the
insertion of the word "concurrent" in the Eighteenth
Amendment was for the very purpose of preventing
Article VI from operating to make the legislation of
Congress supreme and practically exclusive. It begs the
whole question to advance Article VI as controlling.
The clause vesting concurrent power cannot mean one
thing as applied to the action of the several States, and
quite another and different thing when applied to the
action of Congress. It cannot mean that if there be
conflict, the action of Congress must control, for that
would plainly be to say that the power of the States was
not concurrent, but subordinate, and, in practical effect,
no power at all. Wedding v. Meyler, 192 U. S. 573, 584;
Nielsenv. Oregon, 212 U. S. 315; P.1.re Mattson, 69 Fed. Rep.
535, 542; Ex parte Desjeiro, 152 Fed. Rep. 1004, 1007;
Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 22; PassengerCases, 7 How.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

282, 395, 396, 399. If, therefore, the clause in question does
not authorize the States to invade the field of federal
jurisdiction, i. e., interstate and foreign commerce, without the concurrence of Congress, it would be illogical to
argue that it authorized Congress to invade the field of
state jurisdiction without the concurrence of the States.
It is not contended by the appellant that Congress and
the several States must adopt identical or practically
identical enforcement measures, or that any enforcement
act adopted by one must be wholly inoperative if not
adopted by the other. But it is assumed that no unnecessary fundamental change in the federal system and its
controlling and vivifying spirit was intended or contemplated, that the Nation and the State were to continue
supreme and independent each within its own historic
and constitutional sphere, that no undue interference
of one with the other was intended, and that additional
or supplemental power was being granted to both, which
would authorize each to enter the sphere of the other
provided the latter concurred; in other words, co6perated
by concurring.
The appellant further contends that Title II of the
Natioral Prohibition Act is unconstitutional in certain
particulars because not appropriate legislation and because it contains arbitrary and oppressive provisions
depriving persons of their property rights without due
process of law.
It is conceded of record by the Government and not
challenged in its argument that the definition contained i'
§ 1 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act includes
beverages which are as matter of fact non-intoxicating.
The prohibition of the Eighteenth Amendment, however,
is expressly limited to intoxicating liquors.
The power of Congress in peace times to enforce the
specific prohibition of intoxicating liquors is not as broad
and comprehensive as the police powers of the States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

253 _U. S.

The case of Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264, does not hold
otherwise. The court was then dealing solely with the
war power of Congress, which is the highest attribute
of governmental sovereignty, and the comparison in
the opinion in that case with the state police power
as an analogy was merely to illustrate freedom from
restraint.
Incidental power to enforce a grant of power to Congress cannot be used to enlarge and expand the grant
itself-particularly .when to allow it would impinge upon
the reserved powers of the States. Civil Rights Cases, 109
U. S. 3. The mere fact that the prohibition of nonintoxicating beverages may in the judgment of Congress
tend to aid and render more effective the enforcement of
prohibition against intoxicating liquors is insufficient.
United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41; Civil Rights Cases, 109
U. S. 3; Hodges v. United States, 203 U. S. 1; Hammer v.
Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251.
The first section of Title II of the National Prohibition
Act plainly purports to constitute no more than a definition of the term "intoxicating liquors" as used in the
Eighteenth Amendment. It was enacted as and for a
definition, and that is its declared intent. The provision
might not have been enacted had its wording been changed
so as to declare that it was in truth not a definition at all,
but was being inserted in the act because. it was believed
to be advisable to include non-intoxicating liquors in
order more effectively to enforce the prohibition against
intoxicating liquors. The definition of an intoxicating liquor is one distinct and concrete idea and intent;
the banning of non-intoxicating liquors as an incidental
measure of enforcement is quite a different idea and
intent.
No more objectionable or dangerous doctrine could
be imagined than that an enactment, clearly avowed and
intended to be a definition of a constitutional term and

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

having in view solely that purpose and end, can be sustained as an exercise of a very different power and intent
having in view a different end and supported by entirely
different considerations-an intent and purpose-that may
not have been in the minds of Congress at the time. Such
a practice, if tolerated, would enable the courts to attribute to a statute a meaning and effect not, at all contemplated or understood by those who enacted it, and possibly in conflict with their actual intent.
It may be proper, in reviewing state legislation which
has been upheld by a state court as within the legislative
powers of a State, for this court to attribute the intent as
found by the state court, and not at all permissible to
attribute an intent not expressed in the case of a provision
in an act of Congress purporting on its face sclely to be a
definition and passed in the exercise of a distinctly limited
power of legislation-as here limited to intoxicating
liquors. Congress is always exercising delegated, limited,
circumscribed and enumerated powers, and not the broad
and elastic police powers of a State.
The Eighteenth Amendment must be read in connection
with the Tenth Amendment. It could not have been intended by the use of the phrase "appropriate legiSlation" to authorize Congress to construe a prohibition
limited to intoxicating liquors as including authority
to regulate the vast field of non-intoxicating beverages,
which the Amendment itself had left unprohibited and
therefore free for state regulation.
Sixty years of regulation by Congress of the alcoholic
content of beverages has demonstrated that adequate
provisions for licensing and supervising the production
of non-intoxicating malt or vinous liquors at the breweries
or places of manufacture, and for licenses, stamps, labels
and inspection certificates before shipment, could easily
have been framed, as was done in respect of analogous
subjects in the Food and Drug Act of Congress of June 30,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

253 U. S.

1906; the Meat Inspection Act of March 4, 1907; the
Insecticide Act of April 26, 1910; the Plant Quarantine
Act of August 20, 1912; the Pure Seed Act of August 24, 1912, and the Grain Standards Act of August 11, 1916.
If non-intoxicating beer, ale and porter may be prohibited, and even the use of their names made a criminal
offense, because they look like intoxicating liquor, then
grape juice, which looks like many kinds of wine, and
syruped soda-water, nearly all the varieties of which look
like some species of intoxicating liquors, may also be
prohibited. It infy be properly mentioned in this connection as a reductio ad absurdum that water looks like gin! It
seems to be urged that it is merely a question of degree of
regulation, and that the court ought not to override the
judgment of Congress on any question of degree in the
exercise of its constitutional powers. But the court is
constantly called upon to determine just such questions
of degree.
The case of Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192,
principally relied on by the Government, is readily
distinguishable if it be borne in mind that the state legislation then in question was enacted in the exercise of the
unlimited police power of the State and that the legislation had been sustained by the highest court of the State
as not prohibited by the state constitution.
The-,definition of intoxicating liquors as those containing one-half of one per cent. or more by volume of alcohol
is arbitrary and contrary to conceded facts. This standard of alcoholic content originated for purposes of federal
internal revenue taxation in connection with the Civil
War Revenue Act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 164, § 48, and
was first adopted by the Treasury Department as a test
of what should be deemed "fermented liquors" under
taxing statutes. Treasury Decision Special No. 102,
May 17, 1871; T. D. No. 804, June 29, 1904; T. D. No.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

379

Argument for Appellant in No. 788.

892, April 26, 1905; T. D No. 1307, February 5, 1908;
T. D. No. 1 3 6 0 r May 19, 1908; T. D. No.. 2354, August 2,
1916; United States v. Standard Brewery, 251 U. S. 210,
219; P. 0. Department Liquor Bulletin No. 2, June 15,
1917. States adopted the same standard as a matter of
practical, convenient and economical administration.
See, e. g., New York Liquor Tax Law, § 2, subd. 6; Revised
Code of Delaware, c. 6, Art. 11, § 137; Oregon General
Laws of 1905, c. 2, § 18; Oklahoma Constitution, Prohibition Amendment of 1907. As state legislatures could, if
they saw fit, prohibit not only intoxicating liquors but
liquors containing no alcohol at all (PurityExtract Co. v.
Lynch, 226 U. S. 192), the present question could not
arise.
The definition of an intoxicating liquor contain&l in
§ 1 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act is conceded
on the record to be arbitrary and false, and it is not even
attempted to be upheld as a definition. As declared by
this court in Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, Congress
cannot by any definition conclude the matter,- since it
cannot by legislation alter the Constitution or add to its
powers. The authority conferred by the Amendment is
not as to liquor in general but only as to "intoxicating
liquors for beverage purposes." If Congress can under
the guise of a definition or of appropriate enforcement
legislation forbid the manufacture and sale of non-intoxicants as a State may under the doctrine of the Purity
Extract Co. Case, it can likewise, under the plea that it
deems it necessary, forbid the manufacture and sale of any
liquor whatever, whether alcoholic or not, for medicinal,
industrial, or sacramental purposes; for if one qualifying
and limiting term, i. e., "intoxicating," can be disregarded,
the other qualifying term of the same nature and of no
higher obligation, may also be deleted. Such a method of
construing a constitutional provision is condemned by
settled canons of constitutional interpretation, and more

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.Argument for Appellant in No. 837.

253 U. S.

important still is the fact that it would violate fundamental principles of honesty and good faith in public
affairs.
Mr. Jackman for the appellee in No. 794, advanced
the following propositions:
Neither Congress nor the several States have power to
define "intoxicating liquor " under the Eighteenth Amendment.
Congress cannot under the enforcement clause enlarge
the express grant of power so as to include beverages:
non-intoxicating in fact.
The State of Wisconsin having, under the power reserved and granted it by the Amendment, enacted legislation to enforce the prohibition, and not having concurred in the later congressional legislation, the act of
Congress cannot be enforced and the state law overridden
as to strictly intrastate transactions.
The Amendment is void because (a) it is not an
amendment within the meaning of Article V, (b) it
violates the Tenth Amendment.
Messrs. Houle, Fitzsimmons and Crow, for the appellant in No. 837, submitted, on the following main propositions:
The Amendment has not been ratified by three-fourths
of the States.
It is invalid as an amendment, leading to the destruction of the system of dual sovereignties, and also as an
attempt to exercise ordinary legislative power.
Under § 2 of the Amendment concurrence of the State is
necessary to render the act of Congress effective as to
internal transactions.
The National Prohibition Act is not appropriate
legislation under the Amendment. (For the reasons
stated in the other cases.)

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Argument of Solicitor General and Asst. Attorney General.'

The Amendment destroys appellant's property, existent
before its adoption, and is therefore unconstitutional.
Argument of The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Frierson:
The bills filed by the States of Rhode Island and New
Jersey can not be maintained. They seek to enjoin
officers of the Federal Government from enforcing criminal laws enacted by Congress. The sole ground upon
which the original jurisdiction of this court can be invoked
is that they involve controversies between a State and the
citizens of other States. The fact that a State assumes to
sue and names as defendants citizens of other States is not
conclusive that this court must take jurisdiction. The
judicial power of the United States over controversies to
which a State is a party extends only to those cases "in
which a State may, of right, be made a party defendant,
as well as in all cases in which a State may, of right,
institute a suit in a court of the United States." United
States v. Texas, 143 U. S'621, 6414; Wisconsin v. Pelican
Insurance Co., 127 U. S. 265. A State can not invoke
judicial action by making the case of its citizens its own
and thus suing in vindication of grievances of particular
individuals. New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S.76;
South Dakota v. North Carolina, 192 U. S.286; Louisiana
v. Texas, 176 U. S.1, 16, 24-25.
The questions as to whether the Eighteenth Amendment is of such a nature as to be within the amending
power provided by Article V of the Constitution, and
whether the Eighteenth Amendment has, in fact, been
ratified, are questions committed by the Constitutior. to
the political branch and not to the judicial branch of the
Government. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 42-43,,45; Paific
Telephone Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S. 118; Mississippi v.
Johnson, 4 Wall. 475; Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50;
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.649, 680; Harwood V. Wentworth,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument of Solicitor General and Asst. Attorney General.

253 U. S.

162 U. S. 547, 562; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.
107, 143; Myers v. Anderson, 238 U. S. 368, 373-374; 15
Stat. 707-711.
The Eighteenth Amendment, establishing a fundamental rule of law, is an amendment within the meaning
of Article V of the Constitution. The Constitution and
the amendments heretofore adopted are full of rules of law
by which the activities of the various agencies of government, both state and federal, and the rights and duties of
persons are fixed or regulated. The Thirteenth Amendment, particularly, is almost an exact prototype of the
Eighteenth Amendment and operates upon individuals in
the same way. It has always been understood that there
is no limitation upon the character of amendments which
may be adopted, except such limitations as are imposed
by Article V itself. Washington's Writings, vol. XII, pp.
4-5, 222. With these specific limitations, whatever
amendments or changes Congress may deem necessary to
propose are incorporated in the Constitution if ratified in
the manner provided by Article V. Gales and Seaton,
Annals of Congress, vol. 1, p. 712.
The fact that the Eighteenth Amendment confers upon
Congress a power which had previously belonged exclusively to the States does not prevent that Amendment
from being within the amending power conferred by
Article V of the Constitution. A provision to the effect
that no State should, without its consent, "be affected in
its internal police " by an amendment to the Constitution
was twice proposed in the Convention- and twice rejected.
Elliot's Debates, vol. 1, pp. 316-317; Madison's Papers,
pp. 531-532, 551-552. In scope, the amending power is
now limited as to but one subject, namely, the equal
representation of the States in the Senate. Willoughby on
the, Constitution, § 227. Many of the amendments
heretofore adopted have taken away from the States
powers previously reserved to them. This is particularly

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.

383

350. Argument of Solicitor General and Ast. Attorney General.

true of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, 172.

No State by any provision of its laws or its constitution
can make the ratification of an amendment to the Constitution of the United States by its legislature subject to
a referendum vote of the people. The only method of
ratification mentioned in the Constitution is through
representatives assembled either in the legislature or a
convention called for that purpose. It is clearly contemplated that the action of the State in ratifying shall not be
by direct vote of the people but by their representatives,
and the body, or bodies, who shall be recognized as acting
for the States are specifically named. A legislature in
ratifying an amendment, therefore, derives its power not
from the State or the people of the State but from the
people of the United States through the Constitution of
the United States. This power can not be abrogated,
limited, or restricted by any state statute or constitution,
Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 331, 348; McPhorsonv. Blacker,

146 U. S. 1, 34; Gales and Seaton, Annals of Congress,
vol. 1, p. 716; Davis v. Ohio, 241 U. 5. 565.
The Volstead Act, if otherwise constitutional, is effective in all the States without the concurrence of any
state legislature. The effect of § 2 of the Eighteenth
Amendment, providing that Congress and the several
States shall have concurrent power to enforce the Amendment by appropriate legislation, enables Congress and
the several state legislatures to enact such laws as they
deem necessary to suppress the liquor traffic-the laws of
Congress to be enforced through the courts of the United
States, and the laws of each State to be enforced through
its own courts. The provision is not that legislation shall
be concurrent, but that the concurrent power to legislate
shall exist. Congress and the several state legislatures
may, therefore, legislate for the accomplishment of the
same purpose, but independently of each other. Fox v.

384"

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Conclusions of the Court.

253 U. S.

Ohio, 5 How. 410, 418, 432; Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat.
1, 47; Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16'Pet. 536, 621; Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 209; Covington, etc., Bridge Co. v.
Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, 209, 21i; Passenger Cases, 7
How. 282, 396; United States v. Marigold, 9 How. 559.
In order to enforce, with any degree of efficiency, the
Eighteenth Amendment, a definition of intoxicating
liquor was essential. The definition provided by the
Volstead Act includes nothing which Congress could not
properly deem necessary to enforce the provisions of the
Amendment, and therefore is not arbitrary. Crane v.
Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, 308; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch,
226 U. S. 192; Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264.
: The fact that by the passage of the Volstead Act on
October 28, 1919, and the going into effect of the second
title of that act and the Eighteenth Amendment on
January 16, 1920, the sale of non-intoxicating beer
containing as much as one-half of one per centum of
alcohol was prohibited by the War Prohibition Act does
not render Title II of the Volstead Act invalid, even as to
the sale of such beer lawfully manufactured before
October 28, 1919. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623;
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Co., 251
U. S. 146, 156-157; Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264.
The fact that the Amendment does not provide compensation for liquors previously manufactured does not
render it invalid.
MR. JUSTCE VAN DEVANTEBR announced the conclusions of the court.
Power to amend the Constitution was reserved by
Article V, which reads:
"The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses
shall deem it necessary, shall propose Amendments to
this Constitution, or, on the Application of the Legisla-

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

Conclusions of the Court.

tures of two thirds of the several States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, which, in either Case,
shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of this
Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three
fourths of the several States, or by Conventions in three'
fourths thereof, as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress; Provided that no
Amendment which may be made prior to the Year One
tlousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner
affect the first and fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section
of the first Article; and that no State, without its
Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the
Senate."
The text of the Eighteenth Amendment, proposed by
Congress in 1917 and proclaimed as ratified in 1919, 40
Stat. 1050, 1941, is as follows:
"Section 1. After one year from the ratification of this
article the manufacture, sale, or transportation of. intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into, or the
exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage
purposes is hereby prohibited.
"See. 2. The Congress and the several States shall have
concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation."
We here are concerned with seven cases involving the
validity of that Amendment and of certain general features
of the National Prohibition Law, known as the Volstead
Act, c. 83, 41 Stat. 305, which was adopted to enforce the
Amendment. The relief sought in each case is an injunction against the execution of that act. Two of the cases
-Nos. 29 and 30, Original,-were brought in this court,
and the others in district courts. Nos. 696, 752, 788 and
837 are here on appeals from decrees refusing injunctions,
and No. 794 from a decree granting an injunction. The
cases have been elaborately argued at the bar and in

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Conclusions of the Court.

253 U. S.

printed briefs; and the arguments have been attentively
considered, with the result that we reach and announce
the following conclusions on the questions involved:
-1. The adoption by both houses of Congress, each by a
two-thirds vote, of a joint resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution sufficiently shows that the
proposal was deemed necessary by all who voted for it. An
*express declaration that they regarded it as necessary is
not essential. None of the resolutions whereby prior
amendments were proposed contained such a declaration.
2. The two-thirds vote in each house which is required
in proposing an amendment is a vote of two-thirds of the
members present-assuming the presence of a quorumand not a vote of two-thirds of the entire membership,
present and absent. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas,
248 U. S. 276.
3. The referendum provisions of state constitutions
and statutes cannot be applied, consistently with the
Constitution of :the United States, in the ratification or
rejection of amendments to it. Hawke v. Smith, ante,
221.
4. The prohibition of the manufacture, sale, transportation, importation and exportation of intoxicating liquors
for beverage purposes, as embodied in the Eighteenth
Amendment, is within the power to amend reserved by
Article V of the Constitution.
5. That Amendment, by lawful proposal and ratification, has become a part of the Constitution, and must be
respected and given effect the same as other provisions of
that instrument.'
6. The first section of the Amendment-the one embodying the prohibition-is operative throughout the
entire territorial limits of the United States, binds all
legislative bodies, courts, public officers and individuals
within those limits and of its own force invalidates every

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

'387

Conclusions of the Court.

legislative act-wheher by Congress, by a state legislature, or by a territorial assembly-which authorizes or
sanctions what the section prohibits.
7. The second section of the Amendment-the one'
declaring "The Congress and the several States shall have
concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation "-does not enable Congress or the sev eral
States to defeat or thwart the prohibition, but only to
enforce it by appropriate means.
8. The words "concurrent power in that section do not
mean joint power, or require that legislation thereunder
by Congress, to be effective, shall be approved or sanctioned by the several States or any of them; nor do they
mean that the power to entorce is divided between Congress and the several States along the lines which separate
or distinguish foreign and interstate commerce from
intrastate affairs.
9. The power confided, to Congress by that section,
while not exclusive, is territorially coextensive with the
prohibition- of the first section, embraces manufacture and
other intrastate transactions as well as importation,
exportation and interstate traffic, and is in no wise
dependent on or affected by action or inaction on the part
of the several States or any of them.
10. That power may be exerted against the disposal for
beverage purposes of liquors manufactured before the
Amendment became effective just as it may be against
subsequent manufacture for those purposes. In either
case it is a constitutional mandate or prohibition that is
being enforced.
11. While recognizing that there are limits beyond
which Congress cannot go in treating beverages as within
its power of enforcement, we think those limits are not
transcended by the provision of the Volstead Act (Title I,
§ 1), wherein liquors containing as much as one-half of one
per cent. of alcohol by volume and fit for use for beverage

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
WHITE,

Ch.J., concurring.

253 U. S.

purposes are treated as within that power. Jacob Ruppert
v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264.
Giving effect to these conclusions, we dispose of the
cases as follows:
In Nos. 29 and 30, Original, the bills are dismissed.
In No. 794 the decree is reversed.
In Nos. 696, 752, 788 and 837 the decrees are affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.

I profoundly regret that in a case of this magnitude,
affecting as it does an amendment to the Constitution
dealing with the powers and duties of the national and
state governments, and intimately concerning the welfare
of the whole people, the court has deemed it proper to
state only ultimate conclusions without an exposition of
the reasoning by which they have been reached.
I appreciate the difficulties which a solution of the cases
involves and the solicitude with which the court has
approached them, but it seems to my mind that the
greater the perplexities the greater the duty devolving
upon me to express the reasons which have led me to the
conclusion that the Amendment accomplishes and was
intended to accomplish the purposes now attributed to it
in the propositions concerning that subject which the
court has just announced and in which I concur. Primarily, in. doing this I notice various contentions made
concerning the proper construction of the provisions of the
Amendment which I have been unable to accept, in order
that by contrast they may add cogency to the statement
of the understanding I have of the Amendment.
The Amendment, which is reproduced in the announcement for the court, contains three numbered paragraphs or
sections, two of which only need be noticed. The first
prohibits "the manufacture, sale, or transportation of
intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into,

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.

350.

WHITE,

389-

Ch. J., concurring.

or the exportation thereof from the United States and all
territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage
purposes."
The second is as follows: "Sec. 2. The
Congress and the several States shall-have concurrent
power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation."
1. It is contended that the result of these provisions is
to require concurrent action of Congress and the States in
enforcing the prohibition of the first section and hence that
*in theabsence of such concurrent action by Congress and
the States no enforcing legislation can exist, and therefore
until this takes place the prohibition of the first section is
a dead letter. But in view of the manifest purpose of the
first section to apply and make efficacious the prohibition,
and of the' second, to deal with the methods of carrying
out that purpose, I cannot accept this interpretation,
since it would result simply in declaring that the provisions
of the second section, avowedly enacted to provide means
for carrying out the first, must be so interpreted as
practically to nullify the first.
2. It is said, conceding that the concurrent power given
to Congress and to the States does not as a prerequisite.
exact the concurrent action of both, it nevertheless contemplates the possibility of action by Congress and by the
States and makes each action effective, but, as under the
Constitution the authority of Congress in enforcing the
Constitution is paramount, when state legislation and
congressional action conflict the state legislation yields to
the action of Congress as controlling. But as the power of
both Congress and the States in this instance is given by
the Constitution in one and the same provision, I again
find myself unable to accept the view urged; because it
ostensibly accepts the constitutional mandate as to the
concurrence of the two powers and proceeds immediately
by way of interpretation to destroy it by making one
paramount over the other.
3. The proposition is that the concurrent powers con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
WHITE

Ch. J., concurring.

253 U. S.

ferred upon Congress and the States are not subject to
conflict because their exertion is authorized within different areas, that is, by Congress within the field of federal
authority, and by the States within the sphere of state
power, hence leaving the States free within their jurisdiction to determine separately for themselves what, within
reasonable limits, is an intoxicating liquor, and to Congress, the same right within the sphere of its jurisdiction.
But the unsoundness of this more plausible contention
seems to me at once exposed by directing attention to the
fact that in a case where no state legislation was enacted
there would be no prohibition, thus again frustrating the
first section by a construction affixed to the second. It is
no answer to suggest that a regulation. by Congress would
in such event be operative in such a State, since the basis
of the distinction upon which the argument rests is that
the concurrent power conferred upoli Congress is confined
to the area of its jurisdiction and therefore is not operative
within a State.
Comprehensively looking at all these contentions, the
confusion and contradiction to which they lead serve in my
judgment to make it certain that it cannot possibly be
that Congress and the States entered into the great and
important business of amending the' Constitution in a
matter so vitally concerning all the people solely in order to
render governmental action impossible, or -if possible, to
so define and limit it as to cause it to be productive
.of no results and to frustrate the obvious intent and
general purpose contemplated. It is true, indeed, that
the mere words of the second section tend to these results, but if they be read in the light of the cardinal rule
which compels a consideration of the context in view of
the situation and the subject with which the Amendment
dealt and the purpose which it was intended to accomplish, the confusion will be seen to be only apparent.
In the first place, it is undisputable, as I have stated,

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

WHITE, Ch. J., concurring.

that the first section imposes a general prohibition which it
was the purpose to make universally and uniformly operative and efficacious. In the second place, as the prohibition did not define the intoxicating beverages which it
prohibited, in the absence of anything to the contrary, it
clearly, from the very fact of its adoption, cast upon
Congress the duty, not only of defining the prohibited
beverages, but also of enacting such regulations and sanctions as were 'essential to make it operative when defined. In the third place, when the second section is
considered with these truths in mind, it becomes clear that
it simply manifests a like purpose to adjust, as far as
possible, the exercise of the new powers cast upon Congress
by the Amendment to the dual system of government
existing under the Constitution. In other words, dealing
with the new prohibition created by the Constitution,
operating throughout the length and breadth of the United
States, without reference to state lines or the distinctions
between state and federal power, and contemplaiing the
exercise by Congress of the duty cast upon it to make the
prohibition efficacious, it was sought by the second section
to unite national and state administrative agencies in
giving effect to the Amendment and the legislation of
Congress enacted to make it completely operative.
Mark the relation of the text to this view, sincem the
power which it gives to State and Nation is, not to construct or perfect or cause the Amendment to be completely
operative, but as already made completely operative 'to
enforce it. Observe also the words of the grant which
confine the concurrent power given to legislation appropriate to the purpose of enforcement.
I take it that if the second section of the article did not
exist no one would gainsay that the first section in and of
itself granted the power and imposed the duty upon Congress to legislate to the end that by definition and sanction
the Amendment would become. fully operative. This being

OCTOBER TERM, -1919.

.MOKENNA, J., dissenting.

253 U. S.

true it would follow, if the contentions under consideration
were sustained, that the second section gave the States the
power to nullify the first-section, since a refusal of a State
to define and sanction would again result in no amendment
to be enforced in such refusing State.
Limiting the concurrent power to enforce given by the
second section to the purposes which I have attributed to
it, that is, to the subjects appropriate to execute the
Amendment as defined and sanctioned by Congress, I
assume that it will not be denied that the effect of the
grant of authority was to confer upon both Congress and
the States power to do things which otherwise there
would be no right to do. This being true, I submit that no
reason exists for saying that a grant of concurrent power to
Congress and the States to give effect to, that is, to carry
out or enforce, the Amendment; as defined and sanctioned
by Congress, should be interpreted to deprive Congress of
the power to create, by definition and sanction, an enforceable amendment.
MR. JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS,

concurring.

I do not dissent from the disposition of these causes as
ordered by the court, but confine my concurrence to that.
It is impossible now to say with fair certainty what construction should be given to the Eighteenth Amendment.
Because of the bewilderment which it creates, a multitude
of questions will inevitably arise and demand solution here.
In the circumstances, I prefer to remain free to consider
these questions when they arrive.
MR. JUSTICE MrKENNA, dissenting.

These cases are concerned with the Eighteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, its validity
and construction. In order to have it, and its scope in
attention, I quote it:

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

"Section 1.. After one year from the ratification of this
article the manufacture, sale, or transportation of' intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into, or the
exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited.
"Sec. 2. The Congress and the several States shall have
concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation."
The court in applying. it has dismissed certain of the
bills, reversed the decree in one, and affirmed the decrees
in four others. I am unable to agree with the judgments
reversing No. 794 and affirming Nos. 696, 752, 788 and 837.
I am, however, at a loss how, or to what extent, to
express the grounds for this action. The court declares
conclusions cnly, without giving any reasons for them.
The instance may be wise-establishing a precedent now,
hereafter wisely to be imitated. It will undoubtedly
decrease the literature of the court if it does not increase
lucidity. However, reasons for the conclusions have been
omitted, and my comment upon them may come from a
misunderstanding of them, their present import and ultimate purpose and force.
There are, however, clear declarations that the Eighteenth Amendment is part of the Constitution of the United
States, made so in observance of the prescribed constitutional procedure, and as part of the Constitution of the
United States is to be respected and given effect like other
provisions of that instrument. With these conclusions I
agree.
Conclusions 4, 5 and 6, seem to assert the undisputed. I
neither assent to them nor dissent from them except so far
as I shall presently express.
Conclusion 7 seems an unnecessary declaration. It
may, however, be considered as supplementdry to some
other declaration. My only comment is that I know of no

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

i53 U. S.

intimation in the case that § 2, in conferring concurrent
power on Congress and the States to enforce the prohibition of the first section, conferred a power to defeat or
obstruct prohibition. Of course, the power was conferred
as a means to enforce the prohibition and was made concurrent to engage the resources and instrumentalities of
the Nation and the States. The power was conferred for
use, not for abuse.
Conclusions 8 and 9 as I view them, are complements of
each other, and express, with a certain verbal detail, the
power of Congress and the States. over the liquor traffic,
using the word in its comprehensive sense as including the
production of liquor, its transportation within the States,
its exportation from them, and its importation into themin a word, give power over the liquor business from producer to consumer and to prescribe the quality of the
latter's beverage. Certain determining elements are expressed. It is said that the words "concurrent power"
of § 2 do not mean joint power in Congress and the States,
nor the approval by the States of congressional legislation,
nor its dependency upon state action or inaction.
I cannot confidently measure the force of the declarations or the deductions that are or can be made from them.
They seem to be regarded: as sufficient to impel the conclusion that the Volstead Act is legal legislation and operative
throughout the United States. But are there no opposing
considerations, no conditions upon its operation? And
what of conflicts?-and there are conflicts, and more there
may be, between it and state legislation. The conclusions
of the court do not answer the questions and yet they are
submitted for decision; and their importance appeals for
judgment upon them. It is to be remembered, States are
litigants as well as private citizens, the former presenting
the .rights of the States, the latter seeking protection
against the asserted aggression of the act in controversy.
And there is opposing state legislation,-why not a deci-

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

McKNNA, J., dissenting.

sion upon it? Is it on account of the nature of the actions
being civil and in equity, the proper forum being a crimi-

nal court investigating a criminal charge? There should be
some way to avert the necessity or odium of either.
I cannot pause to enumerate the contentions in the case.
Some of them present a question of joint actionin Congress
and the States, either collectively with all or severally with
each.' Others assert spheres of the powers, involving no
collision, it is said, the powers of Congress and the States
being supreme and exclusive within the spheres of their
exercise-called by counsel "historical fields of jurisdiction." I submit again, they should have consideration
and decision.
The Government has felt and exhibited the necessity

of such consideration and decision. It knows the conflicts that exist or impend. It desires to be able to meet
them, silence them and bring the repose that will come
from a distinct declaration and delimitation of the powers
of Congress and the States. The court, however, thinks
otherwise, and I pass to the question in the case. It is a
simple one, it involves the meaning of a few English words
'-in what sense they shall be taken, whether in their
ordinary sense, or have put upon them an unusual sense.
Recurring to the first section of the Amendment, it
will be seen to be a restriction upon state and congressional power, and the deduction from it is that neither the
States nor Congress can enact legislation that contravenes its prohibition. And there is no room for controversy as to its requirement. Its prohibition of "intoxicating liquors *" "for beverage purposes "is absolute. And,

as accessory to that prohibition, there is the further prohibition of their manufacture, sale or transportation
within or their importation into or exportation from "the
United
States." Its prohibition, therefore, is National,
and, considered
alone, the means of its enforcement might
be such as Congress, the agency- of National power,.might

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

253 U. S.

prescribe. 'But it does not stand alone. Section 2 associates Congress and the States in power to enforce it. its
words are, "The Congress and the several States shall
have concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation."
What then is meant by the words "concurrent power"?
Do they mean united action, or separate and independent
action; and, if theactions differ (there is no practical
problem unless they differ), shall that of Congress be supreme?
The Government answers that the words mean separate
and independent action, and, in case of conflict, that that
of Congress is supreme, and asserts besides, that the
answer is sustained by historical and legal precedents.' I
contest the assertions and oppose .to them the common
usage of our language, and the definitions of our lexicons,
The following is the contention of the Government which I give to
accurately represent it: "It is true that the word 'concurrent' has
various meanings, according to the connection in which it is used. It
may undoubtedly be used to indicate that something is to be accomplished by two or more persons acting together. It is equally true that
it means, in other connections, a right which two or more persons, acting
separately and apart from each other, may exercise at thre same time.
It would be idle, however, to go into all the meanings which may
attach to this word. In certain connections, it has a well-fixed and
established meaning, which is controlling in this case."
And again, "It is to be noted that section 2 does not say that legislation shall be concurrent, but that the concurrent power to legislate shall
exist. The concurrent power of the States and Congress to legislate is
nothing new. And its meaning has been too long settled, historically
and judicially, to now admit of question. The term has acquired a
fixed meaning through its frequent use by this court and eminent
statesmen and writers, in referring to the concurrent power of Congress
and the States to legislate."
And after citing cases, the Government says: "It will thus be seen
that in legal nomenclature the concurrent power of the States and of
Congress is clearly and unmistakably defined. It simply means the
right of each to act with respect to a particular subject-matter separately and independently."

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

general and legal.' Some of the definitions assign to the
words "concurrent power," action in conjunction, contribution of effort, certainly harmony of action, not antagonism. Opposing laws are not concurring laws, and to
assert the supremacy of one over the other is to assert
the exclusiveness of one over the other, not their concomitance. Such is the result of the Government's contention.
It does not satisfy the definitions, or the requirement of
§ 2-" a concurrent power excludes the idea of a dependent
power," Mr. Justice McLean in the Passenger Cases, 7
How. 283, 399.
Other definitions assign to -the. words, "existing or
happening at the same time," "concurring together,"
"coexistent."
These definitions are, as the.others are,
inconsistent with the Government's contention. If coexistence of the power of legislation is given to Congress
and the States by § 2, it is given to be' coexistently exercised. It is to be remembered that the Eighteenth Amendment was intended to deal with a condition, not a theory,
and one demanding iomething more than exhortation and
precept. The habits of a people were to be changed, large
business interests were to' be disturbed, and it was considered that tle change and disturbance could only be
effected by punitive and repressive legislation. It was
naturally thought that legislation enacted by "the Congress and the several States," by its concurrence would
better enforce prohibition and avail for its enforcement
of the two great division's of our governmental system,
' Definitions of the dictionaries are as follows: The Century: "Concurrent: **2. Concurring, or acting in conjunction; agreeing in the
same act; contributing to the same event or effect; operating with;
coincident. 3. Conjoint; joint; concomitant; co6rdinate; combined.**
That which concurs; a joint or contributory thing." Webster's first
definition is the same as that of the Century. The second is as follows:
"Conjoint; associate; concomitant; existing or happening at the same

time."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

253 U. S.

the Nation and the States. with their influences and instrumentalities.
From my standpoint, the exposition of the. case is
concluded by the definition of the words of § 2. There
are, however, confirming considerations; and militating
consideiations are urged. Among the confirming considerations are the cases of Wedding v. Meyler; 192 U. S.
573, and Nielsen v. Oregon, 212 U. S. 315, in which " concurrent jurisdiction" was given respectively to Kentucky
and Indiana over the Ohio River by the Virginia Compact, and respectively to Washington and Oregon over
the Columbia River by act of Congress. And it was
decided that the jurisdiction given conferred equality of
powers, "legislative, judicial and executive," and that
neither State could override the legislation of the other.
Other courts have given like definitions. 2 Words and
Phrases Judicially Defined, 1391, et seq., Bouvier's Dictionary, vol. 1, p. 579. Analogy of the word "concurrent"
in private instruments may also be invoked.
Those cases are examples of the elemental rule of construction that, in the exposition of statutes and constitutions, every word" is to be expounded in its plain, obvious,
and common sense, unless the context furnishes some
ground to control, qualify, or enlarge it," and there cannot be imposed upon the words "any recondite meaning
or any. extraordinary gloss." 1 Story, Const., § 451;
Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S.662. And it is the rule
of reason as well as of technicality, that if the words so
expounded be "plain and clear, and the sense distinct and
perfect arising on them" interpretation has nothing to
do. This can be asserted of § 2. Its words express no
"double sense," and should be accepted in their single
sense. It has not yet been erected into a legal maxim of
constitutional construction, that words were made to
conceal thoughts. Besides, when we depart from the
words, ambiguity comes. There are as many solutions

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

as there are minds considering the section, and out of the
conflict, I had almost said chaos, one despairs of finding an
undisputed meaning. It may be said that the court,
realizing this, by a declaration of conclusions only has
escaped the expression of antithetical views, considering
it better not to blaze the trails, though it was believed
that they all led to the same destination.
If it be conceded, however, that to the words" concurrent
power " may be ascribed the meaning for which the Government contends, it certainly cannot be asserted that
such is their ordinary meaning, and I might leave § 2, and
the presumptions that support it, to resist the precedents
adduced by the Government. I go farther, however, and
deny the precedents. The Federalist and certain cases
are cited as such. There is ready explanation of both,
and neither supports the Government's contention. The
dual system of government contemplated by the Union
encountered controversies, fears, and jealousies that had
to be settled or appeased to achieve union, and the Federalist in good and timely sense explained to what extent the
"alienation of State sovereignty" would be necessary
to "National sovereignty," constituted by the "consolidation of the States," and the powers that would be surrendered, and those that would be retained. And the
explanation composed the controversies and allayed the
fears of the States that their local' powers of government
would be displaced by the dominance of a centralized
control. And this court, after Union had been achieved,
fulfilled the assurances of the explanation and adopted
its distribution of powers, designating them as follows:
(1) Powers that were exclusive in the States-reserved
to them; (2) Powers that were exclusive in Congress, conferred upon it; (3) Powers that were not exclusive in either,
and hence said to be "concurrent." And it was decided
that, when exercised by Congress, they were supreme-"The authority of the States then retires" to inaction.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

253 U. S.

To understand them, it must be especially observed that
their emphasis was, as the fundamental principle of the
new government was, that it had no powers that were not
conferred upon it, and that all other powers were reserved
to the States. And this necessarily must not be absent
from our minds, whether construing old provisions of the
Constitution or amendments to it or laws passed under
the amendments.
The Government nevertheless contends that the decisions (they need not be cited) constitute precedents
for its construction of § 2 of the Eighteenth Amendment.
In other words, the Government contends (or must so
contend for its reasoning must bear the test of the gen-eralization) that it was decided that in all cases where
the powers of Congress are concurrent with those of the
States, they are supreme as incident to concurrence. The
contention is not tenable; it overlooks the determining
consideration. The powers of Congress were not decided
to be supreme because they were concurrent with powers
in the States, but because of their source, their source
being the Constitution of the United States, as against the
source of the powers of the States, their source being the
constitutions of the States, the Constitution and laws of
the United States being made by Article VI the supreme
law of the land, "any Thing in the Constitution or Laws
of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 426.
This has example in other powers. of sovereignty that
the States and Congress possess. In'McCulloch v. Maryland, at pages 425, 430, Chief Justice Marshall said that
the power of taxation retained by the States was not
abridged by the granting of a similar power to the Government of the Union, and that it was to be concurrently,
exercised, and these truths, it was added, had never been
denied, and that there was no "clashing sovereignty"
from incompatibility of right. And necessarily; a con-

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

currence of power in the States and Congress excludes
the idea of supremacy in either. Therefore, neither principle nor precedent sustains the contention that § 2, by
giving concurrent power to Congress and the States,
gave Congress supreme power over the States. I repeat
the declaration of Mr. Justice McLean: "A concurrent
power excludes the idea of a dependent power."
It is, however, suggested (not by the Government) that
if Congress is not supreme upon the considerations urged
by the Government, it is made supreme by Article VI of
the Constitution. The Article is not applicable. It is not
a declaration of the supremacy of one provision of the
Constitution or laws of the United States over another, but
of the supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the
United States over the constitutions and laws of the
States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 209, 211; 2 Story,
Const.,
5th ed., § 1838, et seq.
The Eighteenth
Amendment is part of the Constitution
of the United States, therefore of as high sanction as
Article VI. There seems to be a denial of this, based on
Article V. That Article provides that the amendments
proposed by either of the ways there expressed "shall be
valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of this Constitution." Some undefinable power is attributed to this in
connection with Article VI, as if Article V limits in some
way, or defeats, an amendment to the Constitution inconsistent with a ,previously existing provisidn. Of
course, the immediate answer is that an amendment is
made to change a previously existing provision. What
other purpose could an amendment have? And it would be
nullified by the mythical power attributed to Article V,
either alone or in conjunction with Article VI. A contention that ascribes such power to those articles is untenable. The Eighteenth Amendment is part of the Constitution and as potent as any other part of it. Section 2,
therefore, is a new provision of power, power to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

253 U. S.

States as well as to Congress, and it is a contradiction
to say that a pdwer constitutionally concurrent in Congress and the States, in some way becomes constitutionally subordinate in the States to Congress.
If it be said that the States got no power over prohibition that they did not have before, it cannot be said that
the power already possessed was not preserved to them
by the Amendment, notwithstanding the policy of'prohibition was made national; and besides, there was a
gift of power to Congress that it did not have before, a
gift of a right to be exercised within state lines, but with
the limitation or condition that the powers of the States
should remain with the States and be participated in by
Congress only in concurrence with the States, and thereby
preserved from abuse by either, or exercise to the detriment
of prohibition. There was, however, a power given to the
States, a power over importations. This power was subject
to concurrence with Congress and had the same safeguards.
This construction of § 2 is enforced by other considerations. If the supremacy of Congress had been- intended,
it would have been directly declared as in the Thirteenth,
Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. And such was
the condition when the Amendment left the Senate. The
precedent of preceding amendments was followed, there
was a single declaration of jurisdiction in Congress.
Section 2 was amended in the House upon recommendation of'the Judiciary'Conunittee, and the provision giving
concurrent power to Congress and to the States was
necessarily estimated and intended to be additive of
something. The Government's contention makes it
practically an addition of nothing but -words, in fact denuding it of function, making it a gift of impotence, not
one of power to be exercised independently of Congress or
concurrently with Congress, or, indeed, at all. Of this
there can be no contradiction, for what power is assigned
to the States to legislate if the legislation be immediately

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

superseded-indeed, as this case shows, be possibly forestalled and precluded by the power exercised in the
Volstead Act? And meaningless is the difference the
Government suggests between concurrent power and concurrent legislation. A power is given to be exercised, and
we are cast into helpless and groping bewilderment in
trying to think of it apart from its exercise or the effect of
its exercise. The addition to § 2 was a conscious adaptation of means to the purpose. It changed the relation
between the States and the National Government. The
lines of exclusive power in one or the other were removed,
and equality and community of powers substituted.
There is a suggestion, not made by, the Government,
though assisting its contention, that § 2 was a gift of
equal power to Congress and to the States, not, however,
to be concurrently exercised, but to be separately exercised; conferred and to be exercised, is the suggestion, to
guard against neglect in either Congress or the States,
the inactivity of the one being supplied by the activity
of the other. But here again we encounter the word" concurrent" and its inexorable requirement of coincident or
united action, not alternative or emergency action to safeguard against the delinquency of Congress or the States.
If, however, such neglect was to be apprehended, it is
strange that the framers of § 2, with the whole vocabulary of the language to draw upon, selected words that
expressed the opposite of what the framers meant. In
other words, expressed concurrent action instead of substitute action. I cannot assent. I believe they meant
what they said and that they must be tAken at their word.
The Government with some consciousness that its
contention requires indulgence or excuse, at any rate in
recognition of the insufficiency of its contention to satisfy
the words of § 2, makes some concessions to the States.
They are, however, not very tangible to measurement.
They seem to yield a power of legislation to the States

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

253 U.S.

and a power of jurisdiction to their courts, but, almost
at the very instant of concession, the power and jurisdiction are declared to be without effect.
I am not, therefore, disposed to regard the concessions
seriously. They confuse; "make no light; but rather
darkness visible." Of what use is a concession of power
to the States to enact laws which cannot be enforced?
Of what use a concession of jurisdiction to the courts of
the States when their judgments cannot -be executed,
indeed the very law upon which it is exercised may be
declared void in an antagonistic jurisdiction exerted in
execution of an antagonistic power? 1 And equally
worthless is the analogy that the Government assays between the power of the National Government and the
power of the States to criminally punish violations of their
respective sovereignties, as for instance in counterfeiting
cases. In such cases the exercises of sovereignty are not'
in antagonism. Each is inherently possessed and independently exercised, and can be enforced no matter what
the other sovereignty may do or abstain from doing. On'
the other hand, under the Government's construction- of
§ 2, the legislation of Congress is supreme and exclusive.
Whatever the States may do is abortive of effect.
-The Government, seeking relief from the perturbation
of mind and opinions produced by departure from the
words of § 2, suggests a modification of its contention that
in case of conflict between state legislation and congresI The Government feels the inconsistency of its concessions and
recessions. It asserts at one instant that the legislation of the States
may be enforced in their courts, but in the next instant asserts that the
conviction or acquittal of an offender there will not bar his prosecution
in the federal courts for the same act as a violation of the federal law.
From this situation the Government hopes that there will be rescue by
giving the Eighteenth Amendment "such a meaning that a prosecution
in the courts of one government may be held to bar a prosecution for
the same offense in the courts of the other." The Government considers, however, the question is not now presented.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

sional legislation that of Congress would prevail, by
intimating that, if state legislation be more drastic than
congressional legislation, it might prevail; and, in support
of the suggestion, urges that § 1 is a command to prohibition, and that the purpose of § 2 is to enforce the command,
and whatever legislation is the most prohibitive subserves
best the command, displaces less restrictive legislation
and becomes paramount. If a State, therefore, should
define an intoxicating beverage to be one that has less than
one-half of one per cent. of alcohol, it would supersede the
Volstead Act, and a State Might even keep its legislation
supreme by forestalling congressional retaliation by
prohibiting all artificial bev erages of themselves innocuous, the prohibition being accessory to the main purpose
of power,-adducing Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S.
192. Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264. Of course
this concession to the more drastic legislation destroys all
that is urged for congressional supremacy; for necessarily
supremacy cannot be transferred from the States to
-Congress or from Congress to the States as the quantity
of alcohol may vary in the prohibited beverage. Section
2 is not quite so flexible to management. I may say, however, that one of the conclusions of the court has limited
the range of. retaliations. It recognizes "that there are
limits beyond which Congress cannot go in treating
beverages as within its power of enforcement" and declares that "those limits are not transcended by the
provisions of the Volstead Act." Of course, necessarily,
the same limitations apply to the power of the States as
well.
From these premises the deduction seems inevitable
that there must be united action between the States and
Congress, or, at any rate, concordant and harmonious
action; and will not such action promote better the purpose
of the Amendment-will it not bring to the enforcement
of prohibition the power of the States and the power of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
McKENNA, J., dissenting.

253 U. S.

Congress, make all the instrumentalities of the States, its
courts and officers, agencies of the enforcement, as well as
the instrumentalities of the United States, its courts and
officers, agencies of the enforcement? Will it not bring
to the States as well, or preserve to them, a partial autonomy, satisfying, if you will, their prejudices, or better say,
their predilections?-and it is not too much to say that
our dual system of government is based upon them. Arid
this predilection for self-government the Eighteenth
Amendment regards and respects, and by doing so,
sacrifices nothing of the policy of prohibition.
It is, however, urged that to require such concurrence
is to practically nullify the prohibition of the Amendment,
for without legislation its prohibition would be ineffectual;
and that it is impossible to secure the concurrence of
Congress and the States in legislation. I cannot assent
to the propositions. The conviction of the evils of intemperance-the eager and ardent sentiment that impelled the Amendment,-Will impel its execution through
Congress and the States. It may not be in such legislation
as the Volstead Act with its Y of 1% of alcohol, or in such
legislation as some of the States have enacted with their
2.75% of alcohol, but it will be in a law that will be
prohibitive of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes.
It may require a little time to achieve, it may require
some adjustments, but of its ultimate achievement there
can be no doubt. However, whatever the difficulties of
achievement, in view of the requirement of § 2, it may be
answered as this court answered in Wedding v. Meyler,
supra, "The conveniences and inconveniences of con.,
current jurisdiction both axe obvious and do not need to
be stated. We have nothing to do with them when the
law-making power has spoken."
I am, I think, therefore, justified in my dissent. I am
alone in the grounds of it, but, in relief of the solitude of
rny position, I invoke the coincidence of my views with

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

those entertained by the minority membership of the
Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives, and
expressed in its report upon the Volstead Act.
MR.JUSTICE CLARKE,

dissenting.

I concur in the first seven paragraphs and in the tenth
paragraph of the announced "conclusions" of the court,
but I dissent from the remaining three paragraphs.
The eighth, ninth and eleventh paragraphs,
taken'together, in effect, declare the Volstead Act to be the supreme
law of the land,-paramount to any state law with which
it may conflict in any respect.
Such a result, in my judgriient, can be arrived at only
by reading out of the second section of the Eighteenth
Amendment to the Constitution the word "concurrent,"
as it is used in the grant to Congress and the several
States of "concurrent power to enforce this article by
appropriate legislation." This important word, which
the record of Congress shows "wasintroduced, with utmost
deliberation, to give accurate expression to a very definite
purpose, can be 'read out of the Constitution only by
violating the sound and wise rule of constitutional construction early announced and often applied by this
court,-that in expounding the Constitution of the United
States no word in it can be rejected as superfluous or unmeaning, but effect must be given to every word to the
extent that this is reasonably possible.
This rule was first announced in 1824 in Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; it was applied with emphasis in 1840
in Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540, 570; and in the recent
case of Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.41, it is referred to
as an elementary canon of constitutional construction.
The authoritative dictionaries, general and law, and
the decided cases, agree, that "concurrent" means "joint
and equal authority", "running together, having the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

253 U. S.

authority," and therefore the grant of concurrent power
to the Congress and the States should give to each equal,the same,-authority to enforce the Amendment by appropriate legislation. But the conclusions of -the court from
which I dissent, by rendering the Volstead Act of Congress
paramount to state laws, necessarily deprive the States
of all power to enact legislation in conflict with it, and
construe the Amendment precisely as if the word "concurrent" were not in it. The power of Congress is rendered
as supreme as if the grant to enforce the Amendment had
been to it alone, as it is in the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and
Fifteenth Amendments and as it was in one proposed
form of the Eighteenth Amendment which was rejected
by Congress. Cong. Rec., July 30, 1917, p. 5548, and
December 17, 1917, p. 469.
Such a construction should not be given the Amendment
if it can reasonably be avoided, as it very clearly may be,
I think, with a resultant giving of a large and beneficent
effect to the grant, as it is written. Giving to the word
"concurrent" its usual and authoritative meaning, would
result in congressional -legislation under this grant' of
power being effective within the boundaries of any State
only when concurred in by action of Congress and of such
State, which, however, could readily be accomplished by
the approval by either of the legislation of the other or
by the adoption of identical legislation by both. Such
legislation would be concurrent in fact and in law and
could be enforced by the courts and officers of either the
Nation or the State, thereby insuring a more general and
satisfactory observance of it than could possibly be obtained by the federal authorities alone. It would, to a
great extent, relieve Congress of the burden and the
general government of the odium to be derived from the
antagonism which would certainly spring from enforcing,
within States, federal laws which must touch the daily life
of the people very intimately and often very irritatingly.

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

Such co6peration in legislation is not unfamiliar to
our Constitution or in our practical experience.
By § 10 of Art. I of the Constitution of the United
States the States are deprived of power to do many things
without the consent of Congress, and that consent has
frequently been given, especially to contracts and agreements between States, which without it would be unconstitutional and void. The Wilson Act of 1890, the
Webb-Kenyon- Act of 1913, and the Reed Amendment
of 1917 are familiar examples of co6perative legislation
on the subject of intoxicating liquors. Other instances,
could readily be supplied. When to this we add that the
Volstead Act is obviously in very large part a compilation
from the prohibition codes of various States and is supposed to contain what is best in each of them, there is
every reason to believe that, if concurrent legislation were
insisted upon, the act would bp promptly approved by
the-legislatures of many of the States and would thereby
become the concurrent law of the State and Nation
throughout a large part of the Union.
Under this construction, which I think should be given
the Amendment, there would be large scope also for its
operation even in States which might refuse to concur
in congressional legislation for its enforcement. In my
judgment, the law in such a State would beas if no special
grant of concurrent power for the enforcement of the
first section had been made in the second section, but,
nevertheless, the first section, prohibiting the manufacture, sale, transportation, importation or exportation, of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes, would be the supreme law of the land within the non-concurring States
and they would be powerless to license, tax, or otherwise
recognize as lawful anything violating that section, so
that any state law in form attempting such recognition
would be unconstitutional and void. Congress would
have full power under the interstate' commerce clause,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

253 U. S.

and it would be its duty, to prevent the movement of
such liquor for beverage purposes into or out of such a
State and the plenary police power over the subject, so
firmly established in the States before the Eighteenth
Amendment was adopted, would continue for use in the
restricted field which the first section of the Amendment
leaves unoccupied,-and the presumption must always
be indulged that a State will observe and not defy the
requirements of the National Constitution.
Doubtless such a construction as I am proposing would
not satisfy the views of extreme advocates of prohibition
or of its opponents, but in my judgment it is required by
the salutary rule of constitutional construction referred
to, the importance of which cannot be overstated. It is
intended to prevent courts from re-writing the Constitution in a form in which judges think it should have been
written instead of giving effect to the language actually
used in it; and very certainly departures from it will return
to plague the authors of them. It does not require the
eye of a seer to see contention at the bar of this court
against liberal, paramount, congressional definition of
intoxicating liquors as strenuous and determined as that
which we have witnessed over the strict definition of the
Volstead Act.
With respect to the 11th conclusion of the court, it is
enough to say that it approves as valid a definition of
liquor as intoxicating which is expressly admitted not to
be intoxicating in each of the cases in which it is considered.
This is deemed warranted, I suppose, as legislation appropriate to the enforcement of the first section, and precedent
is found for it in prohibition legislation by States. But I
cannot agree that the prohibition of the manufacture,
sale, etc., of intoxicating liquors in the first section of the
Eighteenth Amendment gives that plenary power over
the subject which the legislatures of the States derive from
the people or which may be derived from the war powers

NATIONAL PROHIBITION CASES.
350.

CLARKE, J.,

dissenting.

of the Constitution. Believing, as I do, that the scope of
the first' section cannot constitutionally be enlarged by
the language contained in the second section, I dissent
from this conclusion of the court.
In the Slaughter-House [16 Wall. 36], and other cases,
this court was urged to give a construction to the Fourteenth Amendment which would have radically changed
the whole constitutional theory of the relations of our
state and federal governments by transferring to the
general government that police power, through the exercise of which the people of the various States theretofore
regulated their local affairs in conformity with the widely
differing standards of life, of conduct and of duty which
must necessarily prevail in a country of so great extent
as ours, with its varieties of climate, of industry and of
habits of the people. But this court, resisting the pressure
of the passing hour, maintained the integrity of state
control over local affairs to the extent that it had not been
deliberately and clearly surrendered to the general government, in a number of decisions which came to command
the confidence of the generation active when they were
rendered and which have been regarded by our succeeding generation as sound and wise and highly fortunate
for our country.
The cases now ,before us seem to me to again present
questions of like character to, and of not less importance
than, those which were presented in those great cases,
and I regret profoundly that I cannot share in the disposition which the majority of my associates think should
be made of them.

