E. W. BLISS CO. v. UNITED STATES.

.187

Counsel for Parties.

E. W. BLISS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 240. Argued March 12, 15, 1920.-'Dcided May 17, 1920.
Petitioner averred that it granted the Government's request for permission to purchase from another certain torpedoes containing a device in which the petitioner claimed patent rights, upon a royalty
the amount of which was "to be later settled," and that the Government purchased; but it also alleged that negotiations to settle the
amount to be paid failed and that petitioner never consented to
the use of the patented invention without payment of an amount of
royalty which the Government refused to pay. Held, that no express or implied contract to pay any royalty, cognizable by the
Court of Claims under Jud. Code, ยง 145, could be derived from
the facts stated. P. 189.
To maintain an infringement suit against the United States under the
Act of June 25, 1910, the claimant must have at least such an interest in the patent as independently of that act would support a suit
against a defendant other than the United States. P. 191.
A grant by a prospective patentee of the "sole and exclusive license"
to use the invention for the full term of patents to be procured, on
designated articles, only when sold to the United States, the grantee
undertaking to pay a royalty on each such article fitted with the invention and the grantor at its own cost to procure patent and to defend "the license to use . . . hereby granted" against infringers,
is a mere license and will not sustain a suit for infringement. P. 192.
53 Ct. Clms. 47, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Arthur C. Fraser, with whom Mr. Frank H. Platt
was on the brief, for app6llant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis, and Mr. Daniel

L. Morris, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
with whom Mr. Edward G. Curtis, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, was'on the brief, for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this suit compensation is sought from the Government for the use which it made of a patented "superheater," in connection with Whitehead torpedoes.
A "superheater" is a device in which fuel is burned
in the compressed air which drives the motor by which a
torpedo is propelled through the water, so that the air
is heated to such a degree that its energy is greatly increased, with the result that the range of the use of the
torpedo is much extended.
The Court of Claims interpreted the petition as containing a claim that the defendant had contracted to pay
appellant for fifty "superheaters " at $500 each, 'and also
as claiming that it had infringed rights of the appellant
in certain United States Patents by the purchase of 360
"superheaters-" from Whitehead & Company, a British
corporation, and by itself manufacturing one hundred
such "superheaters."
Concluding as to the first claim
that the petition did not state a cause of action in contract, and, as to the second, that it did not show title to
the patents involved sufficient to support infringement,
a demurrer to the petition was sustained and the suit
dismissed.
The main contentionf in this court is that a cause of
action in contract is stated with respect to all of the 510
"superheaters," but in the alternative, though faintly,
it is claimed that the allegations also make out a case of
infringement.
The appellant alleges that it was the owner of two
United States Patents issued in 1902, covering the "superheater" device and that in 1905 it entered into a written
contract with the Armstrong Company, a British corporation, for the use of improvements in "superheaters
owned by that company and at the time protected in

E. W. BLISS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
187.

Opinion of the Court.

Great Britain by a provisional specification for a patent.
A copy of this contract, attached to the petition, after
reciting that the Armstrong Company proposes to apply
for a patent in the United States upon the improvements
in "superheaters rwhich it owns, and that it is desirous
of granting to the appellant the exclusive license to use
such invention "in connection with the Bliss-Leavitt
torpedo " manufactured by appellant, proceeds to grant
to appellant the "sole and exclusive license " to use such
inventions for the full term of the letters patent thereafter to be procured for the purpose of propelling BlissLeavitt torpedoes wherever sold by the Bliss Company
and "Whitehead torpedoes sold only to the United States
Government."
The contract provides for the payment by the appellant
of a royalty of $25 for each torpedo fitted with the Armstrong inventions under penalty of cancellation, and that
the Armstrong Company shall pay all costs and expenses
of procuring the contemplated patents and of protecting
them against infringement.
The petition alleges that eight United States patents
on the "superheater " device were procured by the Armstrong Company, variously dated from August 7, 1906,
to November 14, 1911, but no assignment of rights under
them was made to appellant other than such as it derives
from the contract of 1905, which, it avers, has been fully
recognized and its terms complied with, by both of the
parties to it.
The reference in the amended petition to the two patents owned by the appellant are so meager and so vague
that we conclude that liability in contract or for infringement must be derived, if at all, from the allegations applicable to the contract of 1905.
As to the contract.
The allegations are: that prior to 1907 Armstrong &
Co. licensed Whitehead & Co., a British corporation, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

"use and exercise" its superheater inventions patented
in Great Britain and in the United States but subject to
the rights of appellant under its contract of 1905; that
-in June, 1907, the appellant granted a request by the
defendant for permission to purchase from Whitehead &
Co. not more than one hundred torpedoes containing
the "superheater " invention, the amount of royalty

"to be later settled"; that subsequently 50 torpedoes
so equipped were purchased and were brought into the
United States subsequent to June 1, 1908; but. that no
royalty was ever paid to appellant for the use of the
"superheaters " upon them.

If the petition had stopped here, there might be substance in the claim that as to these fifty torpedoes a contract for royalty on the basis of quantum meruit should be
implied. But the petition goes on and alleges: that in
November, 1907, before the alleged purchase of the 50
torpedoes, in a treaty between the parties as to the amount
of royalty to be paid, a demand by the petitioner of $500
for each "superheater " installed in a Whitehead torpedo
was refused by the Government; that in December, 1910,
and again in March, 1912, long after the alleged purchase,
the prior discussion as to royalty was renewed, but without agreement; and finally it is averred "that petitioner,
by letter'dated March 19, 1912, declined to grant any
reduction and no reduction has ever been granted, and
petitioner has never consented to the use of said patented
inventions or of said patented improvements thereon or
any of them by defendant without payment of said royalty
of $500 each."
It is too clear for discussion that these allegations,
taken together, not only do not show a contract of the
parties, express or implied, to pay a royalty in any amount,
but that they distinctly and in terms negative the making
of any such contract as is necessary to give the Court of
Claims jurisdiction under the applicable section of the

E. W. BLISS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
187.

Opinion of the Court.

Judicial Code, ยง 145, and the decisions of this court.
Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163; United States
v. Berdan Fire-Arms Manufacturing Co., 156 U. S. 552;
Russell v. United States, 182 U. S. 516; Bigby v. United
States, 188 U. S. 400; Harley v. United States, 198 U. S.
229, 304; Juragua Iron Co. v. United States, 212 U. S.
297, 309; Farnhamv. United States, 240 U. S. 537, 540.
Treating for peace with one claiming patent rights for
which it paid a royalty of $25, falls far short of a "convention between the parties-a coming together of the
minds " to pay $500, or any other amount, for the use of
the device.
As to the claim for infringement.
The contract of 1905, relied upon, in terms granted to
the appellant the "sole and exclusive license " to use the
Armstrong inventions for the terms of the patents thereafter to be procured in Great Britain and in the United
States "for the purpose of propelling Bliss-Leavitt torpedoes " (with which we are not concerned) "wherever
sold by the Bliss Company and Whitehead torpedoes
sold only to the United States Government."
Authority to maintain a suit for infringement against
the United States can be derived only from the Act of
Congress of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851, which provides that the "owner" of an infringed patent may recover reasonable compensation in the Court of Claims,
and reserves to the United States "all defenses, general
or special, which might be pleaded by a defendant in an
action for infringement, as set forth in Title Sixty of the
Revised Statutes, or otherwise."
Giving to this statute, as we do, the liberal interpretation placed upon it in Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S.290,
and in Cramp & Sons Co. v. International Curtis Marine
Turbine Co., 246 U. S. 28, the "owner " who may maintain an infringement- suit against the Government must
have at least such an interest in the patent as without the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

statute would support such a suit against a defendant
other than the United States.
It has; long been settled that a licensee may not maintain a suit for infringement, Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477;
Littlefield v. Perry, 21 Wall. 205; Paper-Bag Cases, 105
U. S. 766; Pope Manufacturing Co. v. Gormully and
Jeffery Manufacturing Co. (No. 3), 144 U. S. 248; and
that to entitle an assignee or grantee to maintain such a
suit under warrant of Rev. Stats., ยง 4919, such assignee
or grantee must have an assignment, grant or conveyance,
.,either of the ivhole patent, of an undivided part of it, or
of an exclusive right under it "within and throughout a
specified part of the United States." Any assignment or
transfer short of one of these is a mere license giving the
licensee no interest in the patent sufficient to sue at law
in his' own name for infringement or in equity without
joining the owner of the patent. Waterman v. Mackenzie,
138 U. S.252, 255; Pope Manufacturing Co. v. Gormully,
144 U. S. 224.
While the legal effect of the terms used, and not the
name applied to the instrument containing them, will
determine whether a transfer is an assignment or a license,
neverthelesg the language used is often, as in this case, of
great significance in determining what that legal effect
shall be.
The right granted the appellant by the contract of 1905
is termed in it a "license"; the appellant contracts, as
licensees usually do, to pay a royalty for each torpedo
fitted with the devices to be patented; the contract does
not purport to grant an interest in the patent or any exclusive territorial rights, but only, with respect to the
Whitehead torpedo, rights as to a single prospective
purchaser-the Government of the United States; and
the Armstrong Company contracts at its own cost "to
take all necessary proceedings for protecting and defending the license to use . . . hereby granted " against

PIEDMONT POWER CO. v. GRAHAM.
187.

193

Counsel for Parties.

infringers. Palpably this is a mere license, not sufficient
to sustain a suit for infringement.
Several minor questions, including some of practice,
are argued in the brief for appellant, but the opinion of
the Court of Claims deals with them thoroughly and
satisfactorily and its judgment is
A firmed.

PIEDMONT POWER & LIGHT COMPANY v. TOWN
OF GRAHAM ET AL.
PASCHALL ET AL. v. TOWN OF GRAHAM ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
Nos. 684, 685. Motion to dismiss or affirm or place on the summary
docket submitted April 19, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

The proposition that a municipality, having granted to a company the
right to use the streets for distributing electricity, would impair the
rights of the grantee.and deprive it of property without due process

if it granted a like right to a rival company, is frivolous if the first
grant is plainly non-exclusive; and an appeal from the District Court
based on such claim must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
P. 194.
Appeals dismissed.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Clyde R. Hoey, Mr. Charles W. Tillett, Mr. William
P. Bynum, Mr. James S. Cook, Mr. Jacob A. Long and
Mr. Sidney S. Alderman, for appellees, on the briefs in
support of the motion.
Mr. James H. Bridgers, for appellants, on the briefs
in opposition to the motion.

