CHICAGO &c. RY. CO. v. McCAULL-DINSMORE CO. 97
Syllabus.

94.

rights as to prevent their demanding the foregoing items
*as incident to the claim allowed.
To charge the fund with these expenses is to charge
the United States, and it begs the question to say that
the United States in this respect is subordinate to the
Leary claim. It is not subordinate unless Leary's costs
ought to come out of the Government's pocket, even
though limited to particular money there. The Government cannot be made to pay or to take subject to the
deduction, because Leary, even though a bona fide purchaser, had no contract for it, and because to charge the
fund apart from contract is merely a round-about way
of saying that the owner of the fund must pay charges
of a kind that the United States never pays; (see National
Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 103, 104; United States v.
Barker, 2 Wheat. 395;) and charges for protecting the
fund not for but against the United States.
Decree affirmed.
MR.. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the decision

of this case.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. McCAULL-DINSMORE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 628.

Argued April 23, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

Under the Cummins Amendment of March 4, 1915, which provides
that the carrier shall be liable for the full actual loss, damage or
injury, notwithstanding any limitation of liability, limitation of
amount of recovery, or representation or agreement as to value in
the receipt, bill of lading, etc., and which declares any such limitation

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

unlawful and void, a shipper, in case of loss, is entitled to damages
on the basis of value at the place of destination at the time when the
property should have been delivered if that is greater than the value
at place and time of shipment, notwithstanding his Uniform Bill of
Lading provided for computing damages on the latter basis. P. 99.
260 Fed. Rep. 835, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. 0. W. Dynes, with whom Mr. H. H. Field,Mr. F. W.
Root and Mr. Burton Hanson were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. J. 0. P. Wheelwright, for respondent, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for the loss of grain belonging to the
plaintiff and delivered on November 17, 1915, to the defendant, the petitioner, in Montana, for transportation
to. Omaha, Nebraska. The grain was shipped under the
uniform bill of lading, part of the tariffs filed with the
Interstate Commerce Conunission, by which it was provided that "the amount of any loss or damage for which
any carrier is liable shall be computed on the basis of the
value of the property at the place and time of shipment
under this bill of lading, including freight charges, if paid."
The petitioner has paid $1,200.48, being the amount
of the loss so computed, but the value of the grain at the
place of destination at the time when it should have been
delivered, with interest, less freight charges, was $1,422.11.
The plaintiff claimed the difference between the two
sums on the ground that the Cummins Amendment to
the Interstate Commerce Act made the above stipulation
void. The District Court gave judgment for the plaintiff, 252 Fed. Rep. 664, and the judgment was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 260 Fed. Rep. 835.

CHICAGO &c. RY. CO. v. McCAULL-DINSMORE CO. 99
Opinion of the Court.

97.

The Cummins Amendment, Act of March 4, 1915, c.
176, 38 Stat. 1196, provides that the carriers affected by
the act shall issue a bill of lading and shall be liable to the
lawful holder of it "for any loss, damage, or injury to such
property

.

.

.

and no contract, receipt, rule, regu-

lation, or other limitation of any character whatsoever,
shall exempt such common carrier

.

.

.

from the lia-

bility hereby imposed" and further that the carrier "shall
be liable
injury .

.
.

.
.

for the full actual loss, damage, or
notwithstanding any limitation of lia-

bility or limitation of the amount of recovery or representation or agreement as to value in any such receipt or
bill of lading, or in any contract, rule, regulation, or in
any tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission; and any such limitation, without respect to the
manner or form in which it is sought to be made is hereby
declared to be unlawful and void." Before the passage
of this amendment the Interstate Commerce Commission
had upheld the clause in the bill of lading as in no way
limiting the carriers' liability to less than the value of the
goods but merely offering the most convenient way of
finding the value. Shaffer & Co. v. Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Ry. Co., 211. C. C. 8, 12. In a subsequent report
upon the amendment it considered. that the clause was
still valid and not forbidden by the law. 33 I. C. C. 682,
693. The argument for the petitioner suggests that
courts are bound by the Commission's determination
that the rule is a reasonable one. But the question is of
the meaning of a statute and upon that, of course, the
courts must decide for themselves.
We appreciate the convenience of the stipulation in the
bill of lading and the arguments urged in its favor. We
understand that it does not necessarily prevent a recovery
of the full actual loss, and that if the price of wheat had
gone down the carrier might have had to pay more under
this contract than by the common law rule. But the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Dissent.

253 U. S.

question is how the contract operates upon this case. In
this case it does prevent a recovery of the full actual loss,
if it is enforced. The rule of the common law is not an
arbitrary fiat but an embodiment of the plain fact that
the actual loss caused by breach of a contract is the loss
of what the contractee would have had if the contract
had been performed, less the proper deductions, which
have been made and are not in question here. It seems
to us, therefore, that the decision below was right, and
as, in our opinion, the conclusion is required by the statute, neither the convenience of the clause, nor any argument based. upon the history of the statute or upon the
policy of the later Act of August 9, 1916, c. 301, 39 Stat.
441, can prevail against what we understand to be the
meaning of the words. Those words seem not only to
indicate a broad general purpose but to apply specifically
to this very case.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE dissents for the reasons stated by

the Interstate Commerce Commission.

