CASES ADJUDGED

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
UNITED

STATES

v.

ATLANTIC

DREDGING

COMPANY, W. B. BROOKS,' AGENT.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 214. Argued March 16, 1920.-Decided. April 26, 1920.
The, specifications upon which a dredging contract was based described the materials to be removed as believed by the Government
to be mainly mud and fine sand; declined to guarantee the accuracy
of the description; required bidders to examine and decide for themselves; referred them to maps exhibiting results of test borings made
by the Government, confirming the description; declined to guarantee that such borings actually represented the character of the
bottom over the entire vicinity in which they were taken, but expressed the Government's belief that the general information thereby
given was trustworthy: The representations were deceptive in
that the test borings gave information to the Government not
imparted to bidders, of materials more difficult to excavate than
those shown by the maps and specifications.
Held: (1) That a contractor which relied upon such representations
of the results of the borings and of the Government's belief based
thereon, and whose reliance was confirmed by the Government's
approval of its plant,-adapted only to the lighter materials and
submitted for inspection as to its adequacy pursuant to the
specifications-was entitled to stop work after part performance
(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Statement of the Case.

253 U. S.

and recover the difference between the cost of the excavation done
and the amount received under the contract. P. 9.
(2) That this right was not lost by proceeding with the work and
entering into a supplementary contract, after the heavier materials
were encountered, but before the contractor learned of the results
of the test borings and that they were inadequate. P. 11.
(3) That the cause of action was in contract, not in tort. P. 12.
53 Ct. Clms. 490, affirmed.

ACTION in the Court of Claims to recover the sum of
$545,121.72 from the United States on account of expenditures and loss caused, it is alleged, in the execution of a contract which claimant was induced to enter into by false
and misleading statements of the officers of the United
States in charge of excavations in the Delaware River.
In pursuance of advertisement by the United States
through Colonel Kuhn, the dredging company entered
into a contract to do a certain part of the work for the
sum of 12.99 cents per cubic yard, scow measurement.
Sealed proposals were required by the advertisement
and it was stated that information could be had on application, and bidders were invited to base their bids upon
the specifications. which had been prepared, and were
submitted, by the Government.
The specifications stated that the depth of the channel
to be dredged was thirty-five feet, and under the heading,
"Quality or Character of the Material," contained the
following: "The material to be removed is believed to be
mainly mud, or mud with an admixture of fine sand, except from Station 54 to Station 55+144, at the lower end
of West Horseshoe Range [the latter is not included in
the contract] where the material is firm mud, sand, and
gravel or cobbles." It was stated that "bidders are expected to examine the, work, however, and decide for
themselves as to its character and to make their bids accordingly, as the United States does not guarantee the
accuracy of this description."

UNITED STATES v. ATLANTIC DREDGING CO. 3
1.

Statement of the Case.

The further statement was that "a number of test
borings have been made in all of the areas where dredging
is to be done under these specifications, and the results
thereof may be seen by intending bidders on the maps on
file in this office. (See paragraph 17.) No guaranty is
given as to the correctness of these borings in representing the character of the bottom over the entire vicinity
in which they were taken, although the general information given thereby is believed to be tr'=Otworthy."
To ascertain the character of the material to be dredged
the Government officers had subjected the bottom of the
river to certain borings, called according to their manner
of being made, "test borings and wash borings," and the
results thereof were correctly reported and recorded on
the log or field notes at the time, that is, that the probe
had penetrated or had not penetrated, but there was
nothing on the map exhibited to bidders showing the field
notes taken at the time the borings were made. It was
hence shown that the material to be encountered was
"mainly mud, or mud with an admixture of sand." In
other words, the map did not contain a true description.
of the character of the material which was to be encountered, and was encountered, by the dredging company in
the prosecution of the work. The material dredged, at
certain places, differed from that shown on the map exhibited to bidders. The company made no independent
examination, though it had time to do so, and in making
its proposal it stated that it did so with full knowledge of
the character and quality of the work required.
The proposals required the character and capacity of the
plant proposed to be employed by the contractor to be
stated and that it should be kept in condition for efficient
work and be subject to the inspection and approval of
the "contracting officer." In compliance with the requirement the plant was submitted to such officer and by
him inspected and approved. It was efficient for dredging

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

253 U. S.

the character of material mentioned in the specifications
and described on the map to which bidders were referred
for information; it was not efficient for dredging the
material actually found to exist, and the company secured the services of another concern to do the dredging
for it, and that concern did all of the work that was done.
After the company, and the concern it had employed,
had been at work for some time, it complained of the
character of material which was being encountered, and a
supplementary contract was entered into by it and the
''contracting officer."
This contract recited that "heavy and refractory
material, consisting mainly of compacted sand and gravel,
with a small percentage of cobbles, had been encountered" and provided that such material might be deposited in the Delaware River instead of on shore, as
provided in the original contract.
At the time of making the supplemental contract the
company was not aware of the manner in which the "test
borings" over the area embraced in its contract had
been made. Upon learning of this in December, 1915,
it discontinued work and declined to do further work.
The company then had not been informed of the fact that
impenetrable material had been reached by the probe.
At the time of the cessation of work there remained approximately 350,000 cubic yards of material to be dredged
in the area of the contract. The American Dredging Company completed the dredging at 16.2 cents per cubic yard.
The amount expended by the company was $354,009.19
upon which it had received $142,959.10 making its loss
on the contract $211,050.09. For such sum judgment
was rendered and the United States prosecuted this appeal.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis for the United
States:'
There was no misrepresentation in fact or in law by

UNITED STATES v. ATLANTIC DREDGING CO.
1.

5

Argument for the United States.

which claimant was justified in rescinding the contract
and suing for damages. Southern Development Co. v.
Silv, 125 U. S. 247, 250. There is no claim that by the
action of the Government it was prevented from completing its contract. Claimant's case must rest upon the
theory that the Government made a representation
which amounted to a warranty or guaranty.
But the Government made no positive statement as to
the character of the material; the statements attributed
to it axe fax from being as strong as those held to be mere
expressions of opinion in Southern Development Co. v.
Silva, supra. Claimant was shown the facts upon which
the opinion was based; though urged to do so, it made its
bid without making an independent investigation. It
relied on a belief of the Government, knowing that it was
only a belief.
Nor was there any concealment of a material fact with
reference to the test borings. The specifications stated
that test borings had been made, and the results. It
is not apparent why, when the specifications showed that
test borings had been made and the probe boring method
was the one universally used, and no inquiry was made by
claimant as to the manner in which they had been made,
there was any duty on the part of the Government to
state that the probe method had been used. Nor was
there any duty to recite that the probe had struck impenetrable material. The specifications purported to
show the materials actually encountered, nothing more.
There was no recital as to how the test borings were
made, but the material encountered was truthfully shown.
In United States v. Stage Co., 199 U. S. 414; Hollerbach
v. United States, 233 U. S. 165; Christie v. United States,
237 U. S. 234; and United States v. Spearin, 248 U. S. 132,
positive statements were made as to material facts, which
caused loss to the contractors which they would not
otherwise have incurred.

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

253 U. S.

The case falls in the class illustrated by Simpson v.
United States, 172 U. S. 372, where the ,court refused to
imply a warranty. In the case at bar there is no finding
that any representation was made to claimant by any
officer of the Government. Even if any such statement
had been made, it cannot avail the claimant unless the
representation is a part of the written contract. Simpson
v. United States, supra. "Where one agrees to do, for a
fixed sum, a thing possible to be performed, he will not
be excused or become entitled to additional compensation,
because unforeseen difficulties are encountered." Spearin
v. United States, 248 U. S. 136.
Even had there been misrepresentation, claimant, by
electing to proceed with the contract, ratified it and is
estopped. 2 Pomeroy, Eq. Juris., 4th ed., §§ 916, 917;
Shappirio v. Goldberg, 192 U. S. 232; Wilson v. CattleRanch Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 994; Kingman & Co. v. Stoddard,
85 Fed. Rep. 740; Richardson v. Lowe, 149 Fed. Rep. 625;
Ripley v. Jackson Co., 221 Fed. Rep. 209; Gregg v. Megargel,
254 Fed. Rep. 724; Simon v. Goodyear Metallic Rubber
Shoe Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 573. That there can be no
question as to its election and that it is estopped is further
shown by the supplemental contract made after the work
had been in progress for more than two years. Even if
misrepresentation existed in regard to the first contract,
claimant could not disregard the second and rely upon
some claim with reference to the first to relieve it from the
obligation of the second. InternationalContracting Co. v.
Lamont, 155 U. S. 303, 309.
Claimant's action and the judgment below were both
based, not upon contract, but tort. The Court of Claims
had no jurisdiction. Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall.
269; Morgan v. United States, 14 Wall. 531; Schillinger v.
United States, 155 U. S. 163; Juragua Iron Co. v. United
States, 212 U. S. 297; Basso v. United States, 239 U. S. 602;
Ball Engineering Ca. v. White & Co., 250 U. S. 46; Smith

UNITED STATES v. ATLANTIC DREDGING CO. 7
1.

Argument for Appellee.

v. Bolles, 132 U. S. 125. The Court of Claims has failed
to distinguish between cases where the damage is the
loss occasioned by a wrongful act, and those where a
claimant has recovered from the United States either
because without any fault of his own he was prevented
from completing the contract, or when, as in the Christie
Case, supra, extra work was required for which the
United States was responsible by warranty or otherwise.
In these cases the damage is always for the amount
necessary to compensate the claimant for the work done
and can only be on the theory of quantum meruit. See
United States v. Behan, 110 U. S.338. Here the claimant
abandoned the work and rescinded the contract on the
theory that a false representation had been made to it
and sued for its loss as damages. This it could not do,
even if it had been prevented by the United States, without its fault, from proceeding with the contract, because
it had rescinded it. United States v. Behan, supra. It
sued for damages on account of the tort, a false representation. On the finding of facts, there could be no judgment
in any amount on the ground of quantum meruit, for there
is no showing as to what the dredging was reasonably
worth, and the court was not considering what the work
was reasonably worth, but only claimant's loss. This
loss is only one of the elements and is not determinative
at all.
Mr. W. L. Marbury, with whom Mr. W. L. Rawls was
on the brief, for appe!lee:
This is an action for breach of a warranty or condition,
consisting of the representations made by defendant in
its specifications, with respect to the information which
it had received, as shown by the maps, to which bidders
were referred, in regard to the probable character of the
material to be dredged, and also as to the grounds upon
which it based its "belief" that the material would be

.8

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

253 U. S.

found to be "mainly mud, or mud with an admixture of
fine sand."
The Court of Claims finds that the maps did not show
the results of all the test borings which had been made;
that two borings had been made, the results of which did
not appear upon the maps, and the results of which would
have disclosed the fact that material had been encountered
in this area of a far more difficult character than that
shown to have been found in the ten borings which
had been recorded, and would have disclosed the presence of the kind of material which was actually encountered later, when the work was being done under the
contract.

-

The court below having found as a fact the making of
this representation, and the furtherI fact that it was not
true, the appellee is entitled to recover, as for a breach of
warranty or condition. United ,States v. Spearin, 248
U. S. 132; Anvil Mining Co. v. Humble, 153 U. S. 540;
United States v. Stage Co., 199 U. S. 414; Hollerbach v.
United States, 233 U. S. 165; Christie v. United States, 237
U. S. 234.
The appellee was justified in refusing to go on with the
work when it discovered that the Government had failed
to disclose upon the map two borings which had been
made by it within that portion of the river covered by the
contract in question, when it was definitely and specifically representing that the map showed the result of the
borings which had been made by the Government. United
States v. Spearin, 248 U. S. 132. See also cases cited,
supra.
The Christie and Hollerbach Cases involved representations as to the character of the work to be done, and
clearly establish that such. representations are material.
The point which those cases did not decide, which is involved here, is what are the rights of thb contractor in
such a case with respect to stopping work. In both

UNITED STATES v. ATLANTIC DREDGING CO. 9
1.

Opinion of the Court.

those cases and in the Stage Co. Case, the contractor:
completed his work under the contract, and claimed an
additional amount for damages arising out of the misrepresentations.
The Spearin Case makes clear that a breach of warranty
or condition, which relates to the character of the work
to be done, goes to the root of the contract, and justifies
the contractor in stopping work. It further holds that
in such an event the contractor does not lose his rights
under the contract, but may sue for its breach and recover
the amount of his outlay, plus such profit as he would
have made had he completed the work..
In United States v. Behan, 110 U. S. 345, the. court says
that, "when a party injured by the stoppage of a contract
elects to rescind it," his recovery is -upon the quantum
meruit. The authorities are clear that a mere stoppage
of the work or an abandonment of a contract, when this
is justified by some breach of the contract by 'the other
party, does not work a rescission of the contract in the
sense that no right of action can be asserted thereunder by
the party who was compelled by the act of the other
party to abandon the fulfillment of the contract. To
permit this would in effect allow one party by his own
wrongdoing at any time-to put an end to a contract. See
.
Anvil Mining Co. v. Humble, 153 U. S. 540.
This is not an action sounding in tort. There is no
charge of fraud and no finding of fraud. The petition
charges certain misrepresentations, but there is no allegation and no attempt at proof that any of these was made
with fraudulent intent.
After stating the case as above, MIR. JUSTICE MCKENNA
delivered the opinion of the court.
The case turns upon the statement of the Government
of its belief of the character of the material to be en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

countered, and, as misrepresentation, the omission from
the map exhibited to bidders of the actual borings made
and their disclosures.
The Government asserts that there was no misrepresentation, basing the assertion upon the declaration of the
specifications that no guarantee was intended- and the
admonition to bidders that they must -decide as to the
character of the materials to be dredged,, and to "make
their bids accordingly."
. The assertion puts out of view, we think, other and
determining circumstances. There was not only a clear
declaration of the belief of the Government that its
represeitation was true, but the foundation of it was
asserted to be the test of actual borings, and the reference
to maps as 'vidence of what the borings had disclosed.
The finding' is that the maps contained a record of twentysix borings as covering specified sections that were to be
dredged, and of these ten were in the section of the river,
which by its contract; afterwards made, the plaintiff
agreed to dredge.
There was a further assertion of belief, through its
"contracting officer," by the approval of the company's
plant. As we have seen the Government's care of its
interests extended to the inspection of the instrumentalities
of the contractor, and required the character and capacity
of the plant which was to be used, to be submitted for
inspection and approval. In fulfillment of the requirement the company submitted its plant. It was only:
efficient for dredging material of the character mentioned
in the specifications and described on the map, and it was
so approved. The significance of the submission and
approval are manifest. The character and capacity of the
plant conveyed to the officer the fact that the company
was accepting as true the representation of the specifications and the map of the materials to be dredged; and
reciprocally the approval of the plant by the officer was an

UNITED STATES v. ATLANTIC DREDGING CO.
1.

11

Opinion of the Court.

assurance to the company of the truth of the representation and a justification of reliance upon it...
The case is, therefore, within the ruling of United States
v. Spearin, 248 U. S. 132, 136, where it is stated that the
direction to contractors to visit the site and inform themselves of the actual conditions of a proposed undertaking,
will not relieve from defects in the plans and specifications,
citing Christie v. United States, 237 U. S. 234; Hollerbach
v. United States, 233 U. S. 165, and United States v. Utah,
Nevada & CaliforniaStage Co., 199 U. S. 414. It is held in
those cases "that the contractor should be relieved, if he
was misled by erroneous statements in the specifications."
The present case is certainly within the principle expressed. In the cited cases there was no qualification of
the requirement; in this case it was accomipanied by the
expression of belief, and conduct which was, in effect, a
repetition and confirmation of the belief and gave assurance that it had a reliable foundation. The company,
therefore, was justified in acting upon-it.
The Government, however, contends that, at best, the
alternative was presented to the company, when it discovered the character of the materials, to either quit work
and sue for damages, or continue the work; and that having elected the latter, it cannot now resort to the other.
In fortification of this contention it is said that "even if
the Government had made a misrepresentation as to the
borings, that misrepresentation would necessarily have
been as to the character of the materials to be dredged,
and claimant knew all there was to know about this from
the 'very beginning."'
This assumption and the extent of it and the conclusion
from it, are not justified. It is true the company discovered that the material it encountered was different in
character 'from that represented, but the company did
not know of the concealment of the actual test of the
borings, and the fact that the company attempted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Syllabus.

253 U. S.

struggle on against the difficult conditions with its inefficient plant should not be charged against it. In other
words, it should not now be held to have been put to the
suggested election. It did not know at that time of the
manner in which the "test borings" had been made. Upon
learning that they had been made by the probe method, it
then elected to go no further with the work, that is, upon
discovering that the belief expressed was not justified and
was in fact a deception. And it was not the less so because
its impulse was not sinister or fraudulent.
The Government makes the point, however, that the
implication of the case is that bad methods were used, and
insists that the implication makes the action one for a
tort, and. not tenable against the United States. We
cannot assent. There is no intimation of bad faith against
the officers of the Government and the Court of Claims
regarded the representation of the character of the material as the nature of a warranty; besides, its judgment is in
no way punitive. It is simply compensatory of the cost
of the work, of which the Government got the benefit.
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.

MAGUIRE v. TREFRY, TAX COMMISSIONER OF
TAE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHITSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 280. Argued March 24, 1920.-Decided April 26, 1920.
The income received by the beneficiary from a trust estate consisting
of bonds and equipment certificates held and administered by the
trustee in another State, is taxable by the State of the beneficiary's
domicile. P. 14.
230 Massachusetts, 503, affirmed.

