OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

WEIDHORN v. LEVY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY
OF THE ESTATE OF WEIDHORN, BANKRUPT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 203.

Argued January 28, 29, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

A referee in bankruptcy is not a separate court, nor endowed with any
independent judicial authority, but merely an officer of the court
of bankruptcy having no power except as conferred by the order of
reference, read in the light of the act, and whose judicial functions
are subject always to the review of the bankruptcy court. P. 271.
Under the Bankruptcy Act and the general orders in bankruptcy, a
referee, by virtue of a general reference under Order XII (1), has
not jurisdiction over a plenary suit in equity brought by the trustee
in bankruptcy against a third party to set aside a fraudulent transfer
or conveyance under § 70e, and affecting property not in the custody
or control of the court of bankruptcy. Pp. 270-274.
A decree of the District Court, vacating a decree made by the referee
in such a suit and dismissing the bill, upon the ground that the
referee exceeded his powers under the order of reference, is reviewable in the Circuit Court of Appeals by petition to revise under
§ 24b of the act. P. 269.
253 Fed. Rep. 28, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William M. Blatt, with whom Mr. Walter Hartstone
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Lee M. Friedman for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon his voluntary petition, filed in February, 1916, J.
Herbert Weidhorn was adjudged a bankrupt, and the

WEIDHORN v. LEVY.
268.

Opinion of the Court.

District Court referred the case to a referee under General
Order XII (1). Thereafter the trustee in bankruptcy
addressed to and filed with the referee a bill in equity
against the bankrupt's brother, Leo Weidhorn (the present
petitioner) and the Boston -Storage Warehouse Company,
alleging that certain chattel mortgages, or bills of sale in
the nature of mortgages, made by the bankrupt to Leo
more than four months before the filing of the petition in
bankruptcy, and under which, prior to the filing of the
petition, possession of the chattels had passd to. the
mortgagee and the Storage Warehouse Company, were
invalid because made in fraud of creditors, and seeking to
set them aside under the Statute of Elizabeth and the
Bankruptcy Act, § 70e, and recover the chattels or the
proceeds thereof for the bankrupt estate. Defendant Leo
,Weidhorn promptly objected to the jurisdiction of the
referee, and afterwards answered to the merits. The
referee overruled the jurisdictional objection, proceeded to
hear the merits, and entered a final decree in favor of the
trustee. On review the District Court, considering the
jurisdictional question only, vacated the decree and dismissed the bill upon the ground that the referee exceeded
his powers under the order of reference. 243 Fed. Rep.
756. The trustee petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals
to revise the decree under § 24b; and that court, deeming
that the District Court had erred in holding that the
referee acted without jurisdiction, reversed its decree
dismissing the bill and remanded the cause for further
proceedings, including a review of the merits. 253 Fed.
Rep. 28. A writ of certiorari brings the case here.
It is assigned for error that the Circuit Court of Appeals
ought not to have entertained the petition to revise under
§ 24b; the contention being that since the decree complained of was nade in a plenary suit the exclusive remedy
was by appeal under § 24a. Had the District Court sustained the jurisdiction and passed upon the merits the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

point would be well taken, as the court thereby would have
determined a "controversy arising in bankruptcy proceedings." Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296,
300. But since the decision turned upon a mere question
of law as to whether the referee had authority to hear and
determine the controversy-in effect a question of procedure--it properly was reviewable by petition to revise
under § 24b. Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S.
18, 26; Schweer v. Brown, 195 U. S. 171, 172; FirstNational
Bank v. Chicago Title & Trust Co., 198 U. S. 280, 288, 291;
Matter of Loving, 224 U. S. 183, 188; Gibbons v. Goldsmith,
222 Fed. Rep. 826, 828.
Did the referee exceed the authority and jurisdiction
conferred upon him by the Bankruptcy Act and the
general order of reference?
The following provisions of the act are pertinent: By
§ 1 (7) " 'court' shall mean the court of bankruptcy in
which the proceedings are pending, and may include the
referee." By § 18g, "If the judge is absent from the
district, or the division of the district in which the petition
is filed at the time of the filing, the clerk shall forthwith
refer the case to the referee." Section 22 provides that
after a person has been adjudged a bankrupt the judge
may make a reference to the referee either generally or
specially with limited authority to act or to consider and
report, and "may, at any time, for the convenience of
parties or for cause, transfer a case from one referee to
another." By § 36, "Referees shall take the same oath of
office as that prescribed for judges of United States
courts." And by § 38a, "Referees respeqtively are hereby
invested, subject always to a review by the judge, within
the limits of their districts as established from time to
time, with jurisdiction to . . . (4) perform such part
of the duties, except as to questions arising out of the
applications of bankrupts for compositions or discharges,
as are by this Act conferred on courts of bankruptcy and

WEIDHORN v. LEVY.
268.

Opinion of the Court.

as shall be prescribed by rules or orders of the courts of
bankruptcy of their respective districts, except as herein
otherwise provided."
These provisions make it clear that the referee is not in
any sense a separate court, nor endowed with any independent judicial authority, and ismerely an officer of the
court of bankruptcy, having no power except as conferred
by the order of reference-reading this, of course, in the
light of the act; and that his judicial functions, however
important, are subject always to the review of the bankruptcy court.
In the general orders established by this court pursuant
to the act, under XII (1) provision is made for an order
referring a case to a referee; "And thereafter all the proceedings, except such as are required by the act or by these
general orders to be had before the judge, shall be had
before the referee." 172 U. S. 657.
,The question is, whether the present suit brought by the
trustee in bankruptcy against petitioner was a "proceeding" within the meaning of this provision. We cannot
concur in the view of the District Court that this question
is governed by the distinction between "proceedings in
bankruptcy" and "controversies at law and in equity
arising in bankruptcy proceedings," as these terms are
employed in §§ 23, 24a, 24b, and 25a; there may be controversies arising in the course of bankruptcy proceedings
that are so far connected with those proceedings as to be in
effect a part of them and capable of summary disposition
by the referee under the general order of reference, although because of their nature or because involving a
distinct and sephrable issue they may be reviewable, under
the sections cited, by appeal rather than by petition to
revise. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296, 300;
Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust Co., 216 U. S. 545, 553.
Thus, if the property were in the custody of the bankruptcy court or its officer, any controversy raised by an

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

adverse claimant setting up a title to or lien upon it might
be determined on summary proceedings in the bankruptcy
court, and would fall within the jurisdiction of the referee.
White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542, 546; Mueller v. Nugent,
184 U. S. 1, 13.
But in the present instance the controversy related to
property not in the possession or control of the court or of
the bankrupt or anyone representing him at the time of
petition filed, and not in the court's custody at the time of
the controversy, but in the actual possession of the bankrupt's brother under an adverse claim of ownership based
upon conveyances made more than four months before
the institutionof the proceedings in bankruptcy. ' In order
to set aside these conveyances and subject the property to
the administration of the court of bankruptcy a plenary
suit was necessary (Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102,
113), and such was the nature of the one that was instituted.
Under the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 as originally passed,
an independent suit of this character could not be brought
in the District Court in bankruptcy "unless by consent of
the proposed defendant." Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541,
§ 23b, 30 Stat. 544, 552; Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178
U. S. 524. Whether under the Act of February 5, 1903,
c. 487, 32 Stat. 797, 798, 800, amending §§ 23b and 70e, a
suit for the recovery of property fraudulently transferred
by the bankrupt could be brought in a court of bankruptcy
without the consent of, defendant was a question left undetermined in Harrisv. First National Bank, 216 U. S. 382,
385, but answered in the negative in Wood v. Wilbert's Sons
Co., 226 U. S. 384, 389. By Act of June 25,1910, c. 412, § 7,
36 Stat. 838, 840, § 23b was further amended so as to confer
jurisdiction upon the courts of bankruptcy without consent of the proposed defendant in suits for the recovery of
property under § 70e. The present suit, being of this
nature, might have been brought in the District Court; or

WEIDHORN v. LEVY.
268.

Opinion of the Court.

it might have been brought in a state court having concurrent jurisdiction under § 70e as amended.
We find nothing in the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act
that makes it necessary or reasonable to extend the authority and jurisdiction of the referee beyond the ordinary administrative proceedings in bankruptcy and such controversial matters as arise therein and are in effect a part thereof,
or to extend the authority of the referee under the general
reference so as to include jurisdiction over an independent
and plenary suit such as the one under consideration. The
provisions of the act, as well as the title of his office;.-ndicate that the referee is to exercise powers not equal to or
cobrdinate with those of the court or judge, but subordinate thereto; and he becomes "the court" only by virtue
of the order of reference. In the General Orders the word
"proceedings" occurs frequently, but never in a sense to
include a plenary suit. On the other hand, "proceedings
in equity" and "proceedings at law" are specially dealt
with in General Order XXXVII.
The practice is not uniform; we have found no decision
by a Circuit Court of Appeals upon the point; and the
decisions of the district courts are conflicting. A referee's
opinion in In re Murphy (1900), 3 Am. Bank. Rep. 499,
505, upholds his jurisdiction over a plenary proceeding by
the trustee to set aside a preferential transfer of property
to- a creditor. In In re ShuUs & Mark (referee's opinion),
11 Am. Bank. Rep. 690, a special form of reference having
been adopted by the district court, it was held that jurisdiction was conferred upon the referee over proceedings
under § 60b to recover property preferentially transferred
and under § 67e to recover property fraudulently transferred. In In re Steuer (D. C. Mass.), 104 Fed. Rep. 976,
980, a plenary suit to avoid a preference was heard before
the referee without objection, and-upon petition to review
his action the district court, with some hesitation, directed
that a decree issue "as if made originally by the judge, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

not simply as an affirmance of the decree of the referee."
In In re Scherber (D. C. Mass.), 131 Fed. Rep. 121, 124, it
was found unnecessary to determine whether the referee
could proceed over objection to take jurisdiction of a
plenary suit to recover a preference. Views adverse to the
jurisdiction of the referee in an independent proceeding to
avoid a transfer were expressed in In re Walsh Brothers
(D. C. Ia.), 163 Fed. Rep. 352; In re Carlile (D. C. N.
Car.), 199 Fed. Rep. 612, 615-616; In re Ballou (D. C.
Ky.), 215 Fed. Rep. 810, 813, 814; and In re Overholzer
(referee's opinion), 23 Am. Bank. Rep. 10.
The point appears to have been overlooked in Studley
v. Boylston National Bank, 200 Fed. Rep. 249; 229 U. S.
523, 525, 526. Other cases cited throw no useful light upon
the question.
Reviewing the entire matter, we conclude that under the
language of the Bankruptcy Act and of the general orders
in bankruptcy a referee, by virtue of a general reference
under Order XII (1), has not jurisdiction over a plenary
suit in equity brought by the trustee in bankruptcy against
a third party to set aside a fraudulent transfer or conveyance under § 70e, and affecting property not in the custody
or control of the court of bankruptcy.
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and decree
qf the District Court aflirmed.

