OHIO VALLEY CO. v. BEN AVON BOROUGH.

287

Counsel for Parties.

OHIO VALLEY WATER COMPANY v. BEN
AVON BOROUGH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 128. Argued October 15, 1919; restored to docket for reargument
January 12, 1920; reargued March 5, 8, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.
An order of a commission fixing the maximum future rates ch argeable
by a water company violates due process of law if no fair opportunity
is provided by the state law for submitting the question whether
the rates are confiscatory to the determination of a judicial tribunal
upon its own independent judgment as to both law and fact.
P. 289.
The Public Service Commission Law of Pennsylvania, as construed by
the Supreme Court of the State in this case, fails to provide such
an opportunity by way of appeal from the Public Service Commission to the Superior Court, nor does it clearly appear, in the
absence of definitive construction by that court, that such opportunity exists by way of injunction proceedings under §31 of the
act or otherwise under the law of the State. P. 290.
260 Pa. St. 289, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William Watson Smith and Mr. John G. Buchanan,

with whom Mr. George B. Gordon was on the briefs, for
plaintiff in error.1
Mr. Berne H. Evans and Mr. Leonard K. Guiler, with
whom Mr. David L. Starr and Mr. Albert G. Liddell were
on the briefs,. for defendants in error.
At the first hearing the case was argued by Mr. William Watson

Smith and Mr. George B. Gordon, for plaintiff in error. Mr. John G.
Buchanan was on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Acting upon a complaint charging plaintiff in error, a
water company, with demanding unreasonable rates, the
Public Service Commission of Pennsylvania instituted an
investigation and took evidence. It found the fair value
of the company's property to be $924,744 and ordered
establishment of a new and lower schedule which would
yield seven per centum thereon over and above operating
expenses and depreciation.
Claiming the Commission's valuation was much too low
and that the order would deprive it of a reasonable return.
and thereby confiscate its property, the company appealed
to the Superior Court. The latter reviewed the certified
record, appraised the property at $1,324,621.80, reversed
the order and remanded the proceeding with directions to
authorize rates sufficient to yield seven per centum of such
sum.
The Supreme Court of the State reversed the decree and
reinstated the order saying-" The appeal [to the Superior
Court] presented for determination the question whether
the order appealed from was reasonable and in conformity
with law, and in this inquiry was involved the question of
the fair value, for rate making purposes, of the property of
appellant, and the:amount of revenue which appellant
was entitled to collect. In its decision upon the appeal, the
Superior Court differed from the commission as to the
proper valuation to be placed upon several items going
to make up the fair value of the property of the water
company for rate making purposes." I+considered those
items and held that as there was competent evidence
tending to sustain the Commission's conclusion and no
abuse of discretion appeared, the Superior Court should
not have interfered therewith. "A careful examination
of the voluminous record in this case has led us to the

OHIO VALLEY CO. v. BEN AVON BOROUGH.
287.

289

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion that in the items wherein the Superior Court
differed from the commission upon the question of values,
there was merely the substitution of the former's judgment
for that of the commission, in determining that the order
of the latter was unreasonable."
Looking at the entire opinion we are compelled to conclude that the Supreme Court interpreted the statute as
withholding from the courts power to determine the
question of confiscation according to their own independent judgment when the action of the Commission comes
to be considered on appeal.
The order here involved prescribed a complete schedule
of maximum future rates and was legislative in character.
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210; Lake
Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 249 U. S.422, 424 In all such cases, if the owner
claims confiscation of his property will result, the State
must provide a fair opportunity for submitting that issue
to a judicil tribunal for determination upon its own independent judgment as to both law and facts; otherwise
the order is void because in conflict with the due,
process clause, Fourteenth Amendment. MissouriPacific
Ry. Co. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340, 347; Wadley Southern Ry. Co. v. Georgia, 235 U. S. 651, 660, 661; Missouri v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 241
U. S. 533, 538; Oklahoma Operating Co. v. Love, 252
U. S..331.
Here the insistence is that the Public Service Company
Law as "construed and applied by the Supreme Court has
deprived plaintiff in error of the right to be so heard; and
this is true if the appeal therein specifically provided is the
only clearly authorized proceeding where the Commission's
order may be challenged because confiscatory. Thus far
plaintiff in error has not succeeded in obtaining the review
for which the Fourteenth Amendment requires the State
to provide.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the !Court.

253 U. S.

Article VI, Public, Service Company Law of Pennsylvania"Section 31. No injunction shall issue modifying,
suspending, staying, or annulling any order of the commission, or of a commissioner, except upon notice to the
commission and after cause shown upon a hearing. The
court of Common Pleas of :Dauphin County is hereby
clothed with exclusive jurisdiction throughout the Commonwealth of all. proceedings for such injunctions, subject
to an appeal to the Supreme Court as aforesaid. Whenever the commission shall make any rule, regulation,
finding, determination, or order under the provisions of
this act the same shall be and remain conclusive upon all
parties affected thereby, unless set aside, annulled, or
modified in an appeal or proceeding taken as provided in
this act."
It is argued that this section makes adequate provision
for testing judicially any order by the Commission when
alleged to be confiscatory, and that plaintiff in error
has failed to take advantage of the opportunity so
provided.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has not ruled
upon effect or meaning of § 31, or expressed any view concering it. So far as counsel have been able to discover,
no relief against an order alleged to be confiscatory has
been sought under this section, although much litigation
has arisen under the act. It is part of the article entitled- 'Practice and Procedure before -the Commission
and upon Appeal." Certain opinions by the Supreme
Couirt seem to indicate that all objections to the Commission's orders must be determined upon appeal-St.
Clair Borough v. Tamaqua & Pottsville Electric Ry. Co.,
259 Pa. St. 462; Pittsburgh Railways Co. v. Pittsburgh,
260 Pa. St. 424-but they do not definitely decide the
point.
Taking into consideration the whole act, statements by

OHIO VALLEY CO. v. BEN AVON BOROUGH.
287.

291

Opinion of the Court.

the state Supreme Court concerning the general plan of
regulation, and admitted local practice, we are unable to
say that § 31' offered an opportunity to test the order do
clear and definite that plaintiff in error was obliged to
proceed thereunder or suffer loss of rights guaranteed by
the Federal Constitution. On the contrary, after specifying that within thirty days an appeal may be taken to the
Superior Court (§.17) the act provides (§ 22): "At the
hearing of the appeal the said court shall, upon the record.
certified to it by the commission, determine whether or
not the order appealed from is reasonable and in confornm
ity with law." But for the opinion of the Supreme Court
in the'present cause, this would seem to empower the
Superior Court judicially to hear and determine all objections to an order on appeal and io make its jurisdiction
in respect thereto exclusive. Of this the latter court
apparently entertained no doubt; and certainly counsel
did not, fatally err by adopting that view, whatever
meaning finally may be attributed to § 31.
Without doubt the duties of the courts upon appeals
under the act are judicial in character-not legislative,: as
in Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., supra. This is not
disputed; but their jurisdictibn, as ruled by the Supreme
Court, stopped short of what must be plainly entrusted to
some court in order that there may be due process of law.
Plaintiff in error has not had proper opportunity for an
adequate judicial hearing as to confiscation; and unless
such an opportunity is now available, and can be definitely
indicated by the court below in the exercise of its power
finally to construe laws of the State (including of course
§ 31), the challenged order is invalid.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
must be reversed and the cause remanded there with instructions to take further action, not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEis, HOLMES

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, dissenting.

The Public Service Commission of Pennsylvania, acting
upon complaint of Ben Avon Borough and others, found,
after due notice and hearing, that increased rates adopted
by the Ohio Valley Water Company were unreasonable;
and it prescribed a schedule of lower. rates which it estimated would yield seven per cent. net upon the value
of the property used and useful in the service. The company appealed to the Superior Court, contending that
the property -had been undervalued and that the rates
were, therefore, confiscatory in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. That court, passing upon the weight of the
evidence introduced before the .Commission, found that
larger amounts should have been allowed for several
items which entered into the valuation, reversed the order
on that ground, and directed the Commissi6n to reform
its valuation accordingly and upon such revised valuation
to fiX a schedule of rates which would yield the net return
which it had found to be fair. From the decision of the
Superior Court the Commission appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State, contending that the Superior Court
had in passing upon the weight of the evidence exceeded
its jurisdiction. The Supreme Court sustained this contention; and holding, upon a careful review of the evidence
and of the opinions below, that the Commission had been
justified in its findings by "ample testimony" or "competent evidence" and -that they were not unreasonable,
reversed the decree of the Superior Court and reinstated
the order of the Commission. 260 Pa. St. 289. The
case comes here on writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial
Code, as amended, the company claiming that its rights
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment have been
violated: (1) because the Public Service Company Law, as
construed by the Supreme Court of the State, denies the
opportunity of a judicial review of the Commission's

OHIO VALLEY CO. v. BEN AVON BOROUGH.
287.

BRANDEIS, HOLMES

and

CLARKE,

293

JJ., dissenting.

order; and (2) that the order, which was reinstated by the
Supreme Court, confiscates its property.
First: The Commission's order, although entered in a
proceeding commenced upon due notice, conducted according to judicial practice and participated in throughout by the company, was a legislative order; and, being
such, the company was entitled to a judicial review.
Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 228. The
method of review invoked by the company under specific
provisions of the statute was this: A stenographic report
is made of all the evidence introduced before the Commission. On a record consisting of such evidence, the
opinion and the orders, the case is appealed to the Superior
Court, which is given power, if it*finds that 'the order
appealed from "is unreasonable or based upon incompetent evidence materially affecting the determination or
order of the commission, or is otherwise not in conformity
with law" either to reverse the order or to remand the
record to the Commission with direction to reconsider the
matter and make such order as shall be reasonable and in
conformity with law. No additional evidence may be
introduced in the Superior Court;.but it may remand the
case to the Commission with directions to hear newly
discovered evidence and upon the record thus supple:mented to enter such order as may be reasonable and in
conformity with law. From such new order a like appeal
lies to that court. Act of July 26, 1913, No. 854, §§ 21-25,
P. L.. 1913, pp. 1427, 1428; Act of July 3, 1915, No. 345,
P. L. 1915, p. 779. The Supreme Court construed this
act as denying to the Superior Court the power to pass
upon the weight of evidence; and the company contehds
that for this reason the review had does not satisfy the
constitutional requirements of a judicial review.'
In Napa Valley Electric Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 366,

this court had before it in § 67 of the Public Utilities Act of California
a procedure substantially similar to that provided by §§ 21-25 of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS, HOLMEs and CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

Whether the appeal to the Superior Court fails for the
reason assigned, or for some other reason, to satisfy the
constitutional requirements of a judicial review we need
not determine; because the statute left open to the company, besides this limited review, the right to resort in
the state courts, as well as in the federal court, to another
and unrestricted remedy; the one commonly pursued
when challenging the validity of a legislative order of this
nature, namely, a suit in equity to enjoin its enforcement.,
',See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v,Garrett, 231 U. S.
298, 311; Wadley Southern Ry. Co. v. Georgia, 235 U. S.
651, 661. For § 31 (P. L. 1913, p. 1429) provides:
"No injunction shall issue modifying, 'suspending,
staying, or annulling any order of the commission, or of a
commissioner, except upon notice to the commission and
after cause shown upon a hearing. The court of Common
Pleas of Dauphin County is hereby clothed with exclusive
jurisdiction throughout the Commonwealth of all'proceedings for such injunctions, subject to an appeal to the
-Supreme Court as aforesaid. Whenever the commission
shall make any rule, regulation, finding, determination, or
order under the provisions of this act the same shall be and
remain conclusive upon all parties affected thereby, unless
set aside, annulled, or modified in an appeal or proceeding
taken as provided in this act."
Resort to suit for injunction is made easy in rate controversies like the present by § 41, p. 1432, in which it is
provided that the penalties for failure to obey the Commission's orders imposed by §§ 35, 36 and 39, pp. 1430,
1431, shall not apply to an order declaring a rate unreasonable, if the tariff of rates actually charged is filed
Pennsylvania Act set forth above. The court strongly intimated, if
it did not decide, that under the provisions of the act the mere denial
of a petition to the Supreme Court of the State for a writ of certiorari
amounted to an adequate judicial determination of the petitioner's
rights.

OHIO VALLEY CO. v. BEN AVON BOROUGH. 295
287.

BRANDEiS,

HoLmEs and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

with the Commission. The appeal provided for in §§ 22-25
was under the original act also to the Court of Common
Pleas, but was changed to the Superior Court by the Act
of July 3, 1915.
No decisions of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
construing § 31 of this act have been brought to our
attention. The company contends, however, that the

construction here suggested has been inferentially made
untenable by dicta in St. Clair Borough v. Tamaqua &
Pottsville. Electric Ry. Co., 259 Pa. St. 462; Pittsburgh
Railways Co. v. Pittsburgh, 260 Pa. St. 424; Klein-Logan
Co. v. Duquesne Light Co., 261 Pa. St. 526. But the language relied upon was in each instance used by the court

in making the point, not that the sole method of review
was by appeal as distinguished from a bill in equity, but
that the function of the courts was to review only after the
Commission had in the first instance passed upon the case.
Where a State offers a litigant the choice of two methods
of judicial review, of which one is both appropriate and
unxestricted, the mere fact that the other which the
litigant elects is limited, does not amount to a denial of the
constitutional right to a judicial review. The alternative
or additional remedy in the present case was in effect an
appeal on the law applicable to facts found below. It is in
substantial accord with the practice pursued in other
appellate courts and approved in New York & Queens Gas
Co. v. McCall, 245 U. S. 345. It is true, however, that an
additional ,or alternative remedy may deny the constitutional right to due process of law because of its nature or
the course of the proceeding. See Iowa Central Ry. Co.
v. Iowa, 160 U. S.389. And it is the contention of the
plaintiff that because the Supreme Court did not weigh
the evidence but reinstated the order 'of the Commission
on account of there being substantial evidence to support

it, the procedure was not a*judicial review and denied it
due process of law. The defendants, on the other hand,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIS,

HOLMES and CL"R , JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

insist that the action of the Supreme Court, in reinstating
the order, found not merely that there was substantial
evidence, but, upon a full review, that there was ample
evidence to support the findings, and that the order was
reasonable. They conten4 that the course pursued by the
Supreme Court in making such review was that customarily followed in Pennsylvinia, both by appellate courts
on appeals from chancellors and by trial courts on exceptions to reports of auditors, masters or referees, Barnes's
Estate, 221 Pa. St. 399; and they point out that the same
method was pursued on appeal to the Supreme Court
prior to the enactment of the Public Service Company
Law, at a time when proceedings by consumers to secure
reduction of water rates alleged to be unreasonably high
were brought in the Court of Common Pleas, subject to
appeal to the Supreme Court. Turtle Creek Borough v.
Pennsylvania Water Co., 243 Pa. St. 401.
The contention of neither party is in my opinion wholly
correct. Both overlook the nature of the question of law
which was under review by the Supreme Court. It is true
that there was no statutory limitation upon the scope of
its review; but it does not follow either that the Supreme
Court weighed the evidence and found that the preponderance supported the findings, or that because it failed
to weigh the evidence there was either a denial of due
process or even a mistake of law. The questions of law
before the Supreme Court were, first, whether the Superior
Court had jurisdiction to weigh the evidence; second,
whether in rendering its decision it weighed the evidence;
and third, whether the valuation of the plaintiff's property
was so low that a rate' based upon it would operate to
deprive the plaintiff of property without due process of
law, would confiscate its property. On each of these
questions the Supreme Court found against the contentions of the plaintiff. It held that the Superior Court did
not have revisory legislative powers, but only the power to

OHIO VALLEY CO. v. BEN AVON BOROUGH.

287.

BRANDEiS, HOLMES

and

CLARKE,

297

JJ., dissenting.

review questions of law-in the present case, whether
there was evidence on which the valuation adopted could
reasonably have been found; and in so holding it acted
upon the established principle applied in reviewing the
findings of administrative boards, that "courts will not
examine the facts further than to determine whether there
was substantial evidence to sustain the order," Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Union PacificR. R. Co., 222 U. S.
541, 547-548. It, ,therefore, reinstated the order of the
Conmmission. But it did. not do so as an appellate court
reviewing on the weight of the evidence findings of fact
made by the Superior Court. It did so solely because the
only question before it was whether there was substantial
evidence to support the finding of value; for if the valuation was legally arrived at, the order was confessedly
reasonable. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union
Pacific R. R. Co., supra; San Diego Land & Town Co. v.
Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 441, 442. The presumption created
by § 23, P. L., p. 1427, by which an order of the Commission is made primafacie evidence of its reasonableness is in
no sense a limitation upon the scope of the review. It is
in effect the presumption which this court has declared to
exist in rate cases, independently of statute, in favor of the
conclusion of an experienced administrative body reached
after a full hearing. Darnellv. Edwards, 244 U. S. 564, 569.
Secod. As the company had the opportunity for a full
judicial review through a suit in equity for an injunction,
as it was not denied due process by disregard in the proceedings actually taken of the essentials of judicial process,
and since, it is clear that the findings of the Commission
were supported by substantial evidence, the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania must be affirmed,
unless, as contended, the claim of confiscation compels
this court to decide, upon the weight of the evidence,
whether or not its property has been undervalued or unless some error in law is shown.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
BRANDEIs,

HOLMES and CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting. 253 U. S.

The case is here on writ of error to a state court. It is
settled that in such cases we accept the facts as there
found, not only in actions at law, Dower v. Richards, 151
U. S. 658; but, also, where, as in chancery, the record
contains all the evidence and it was open for consideration
by and actually passed upon by the highest court of the
State, Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Waters-PierceOil Co.
v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 107. And this is true, although the
existence of a federal question depends upon the determination of the issue of fact, and although the finding of fact
will determine whether or not there has been a taking of
property in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S.
53, 65. This court may, of course, upon writ of error to a
state court "examine the entire record, including the evidence, . . . to determine whether what purports to be
a finding upon questions of fact is so involved with and
dependent upon questions of law as to be in substance and
effect a decision of the latter," Kansas City Southern Ry.
Co. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591-593;
Cedar Rapids Gas Light Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 655,
668; Graham v. (Gill,223 U. S. 643, 645. But in order that
such examination may be required or be permissible, its
purpose must not be to pass upon the relative weight of
conflicting evidence, Oregon Railroad & Navigation Co. v.
Fairchild,224 U. S. 510, 528, and to substitute the judgment therein of this court for that of the lower court; but
to ascertain whether a finding was unsupported by evidence,
or whether evidence was properly admitted or excluded, or
whether in some other way a ruling was involved which
is within the appellate jurisdiction of this court. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota,236 U. S. 585, 593; Norfolk
& Western Ry. Co. v. West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605.
Here, it is clear, there was substantial evidence to support the findings of the Commission; and no adequate
reason is shown for declining to accept as conclusive the

OHIO VALLEY CO. v. BEN AVON BOROUGH.
287.

BRANDEIS,

299

HOLMES and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

facts found by the state tribunals. See PortlandRailway,
Light & Power Co. v. Oregon Railroad Commission, 229
U. S. 397; Miedreich v. Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236. The
rates are predicated on the company's earning seven per
cent. net on the value of its property used and useful in
the service, after deducting from the income all expenses
and charges for depreciation. It is conceded that seven
per cent. is a fair return upon the investment and it is not
contended that any erroneous rule has been applied in
ascertaining the expenses of operation or the depreciation
charges. The claim that the rates are confiscatory rested
wholly on the contention that the property was undervalued; and on that question the contention is that the'
court failed to give due weight to the evidence adduced by
the company and that the processes by which the Commission arrived at the value it fixed differed from that often
pursued by courts and administrative bodies. To this the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said: "The ascertainment
of the fair value of the property, for rate making purposes,
is not a matter of formulas, but it is a matter which calls
for the exercise of a sound and reasonable judgment upon
a proper consideration of all relevant facts." The objections to the valuation made by the company raise no
question of law but concern pure matters of fact; and the
finding of the Commission, affirmed by the highest court
of the State, is conclusive upon this court. The case at
bar is wholly unlike Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Minnesota,
238 U. S. 340; and Union Pacific R. R., Co. v. Public
Service Commission of Missouri, 248 U. S. 67, where this
court reversed the judgments as matter of law upon the
facts found by the Commission.
In my opinion the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concur
in this dissent.

