EVANS v. GORE.
Opinion of the Court.

EVANS v. GORE, DEPUTY AND ACTING COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 654.

Argued March 5, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

The relation of its members to the principle involved cannot relieve
this court of the duty to determine the taxability of the salary of a
judge of another federal court, in a case duly presenting the question. P. 247.
The primary purpose of the Constitution in providing (Art. I, § 1, cl. 6)
that the compensation of the judges "shall not be diminished during
their continuance in office," was not to benefit the judges, but to
- attract fit men to the bench and insure that independence of action
and judgment which is essential to the maintenance of the Constitution and the impartial administration of justice. Pp. 248, 253.
Such being its purpose, the limitation is to be construed, not as a
private grant, but as a limitation imposed in the public interestnot restrictively, but in accord with its spirit and the principle on
which it proceeds. P. 253.
Any diminution which by necessary operation and effect withholds or
takes from the judge a part of that which has been promised by law
for his services, must be regarded as within the. limitation. P. 254.
The prohibition embraces and prevents diminution by taxation, and
has been so construed in the actual practice of the Government.
P. 255.
The purpose of the Sixteenth Amendment, as shown by its language
and history and by recent decisions of this court, was not to extend
the taxing power to new or excepted subjects, but merely to remove
all occasion otherwise existing, for an apportionment among the
States of .taxes laid on income, whether derived from one source or
another. P. 259.
A tax upon the net income of a United States District Judge, assessed
under the Act of February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1062, § 213,
(passed since he took office) by including his official salary in the
computation, operates to diminish his compensation; in violation

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

of the Constitution, and is invalid. P. 263. Peck & Co. v. Lowe,
247 U. S. 165; United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, id. 321, distinguished.
,
262 Fed. Rep. 550, reversed,

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William Marshall Bullitt and Mr. Edmund F.
Trabue, with whom Hon. Walter Evans, pro se, Mr. Frank
P. Straus, Mr. Howard B. Lee and Mr. Helm Bruce were on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom
The Attorney General was on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is an action to recover money paid under protest as
a tax alleged to be forbidden by the Constitution.
The plaintiff is the United States District Judge for the
Western District of Kentucky, and holds that office under
an appointment by the President made in 1899 with the
advice and consent of the Senate. The tax which he calls
in question was levied under the Act of February 24, 1919,
c. 18, 40 Stat. 1062, on his net income for the year 1918, as
computed under that act. His compensation or salary as
District Judge was included in the computation. Had
it been excluded he would not have been called on to pay
any income tax for that year. The inclusion was in obedience to a provision in § 213 requiring the computation to
embrace all gains, profits, income and the like, "including
in the case of the President of the United States, the judges
of the Supreme and inferior courts of the United States,
[and others] . . . the compensation received as
such." Whether he could be subjected to such a tax in

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

.247

Opinion of the Court.

respect of his salary, consistently with the Constitution, is
the matter inissue. If it be resolved against the tax he
will be entitled to recover what he paid; otherwise his
action must fail. It did fail in the District Court. 262
Fed. Rep. 550.
The Constitution establishes three great co6rdinate'
departments of the National Government,-the legislative, the executive, and the judicial,-and distributes
among them the powers confided to that Government by
the people. Each department is dealt with in a separate
Article, the legislative in the first, the executive in the
second and the judicial in the third. Our present concern
is chiefly with the third Article. It defines the judicial
power, vests it in oine supreme court and such inferior
courts as Congress may from time to time ordain and
establish, and declares: ."The Judges, both of the supreme
and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good
Behaviour, and shall, at stated Times, receive for their
Services, a Compensation, which shall not be diminished
during their Continuance in Office."
The plaintiff insists that the provision in § 213 which
subjects him to a.tax in respect of'his compensation as a
judge by its necessary operation and effect diminishes that
compensation and therefore is repugnant to the constitutional limitation just quoted.
Stated in its broadest aspect, the contention involves
the power to tax the compensation of federal judges in
general,-and also the salary of the President, as to which
the Constitution (Art. II, § 1, cl. 6) contains a similar
limitation. Because of the individual relation of the
members of this court to the question, thus broadly stated,
we cannot but regret that its solution falls to us; and this
although each member has been paying the tax in respect
of his salary voluntarily and in regular course. But jurisdiction of the present case cannot be declined or renounced. The plaintiff was entitled by law to invoke our

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

decision on the question as respects his own compensation, in which no other judge can have any direct personal
interest; and there was no other appellate tribunal to
which under the law he could go. He brought the case
here in due course, the Government joined him in asking
an early determination of the question involved, and both
have been heard at the bar and through printed briefs. In
this situation, the only course open to us is to consider and
decide the cause,-a conclusion supported by precedents
reaching back many years. Moreover, it appears that,
when this taxing provision was adopted, Congress regarded it as of uncertain constitutionality and both
contemplated and intended that the question should be
settled by us in a case like this.'
With what purpose does the Constitution provide that
the compensation of the judges "shall not be diminished
during their continuance in office"? Is it primarily to
benefit the judges, or rather to promote the public weal by
giving them that independence which makes for an impartial and courageous discharge of the judicial function?
Does the provision merely forbid direct diminution, such
'See House Report,'No. 767, p. 29, 65th Cong., 2d sess.; Senate
Report, No. 617, p. 6, 65th Cong., 3rd sess. And see Cong. Ree.,
vol. 56, p. 10370, where the Chairman of the House Committee, in
asking the adoption of the provision, said: "I wish to say, Mr. Chairman, that while there is considerable doubt as to the constitutionality
of taxing . . . Federal judges' or the President's salaries,
we can not settle it; we have not the power to settle it. No power in
the world can settle it except the'Supreme Court of the United States.
Let us raise it, as we have done, and let it be tested, and it can only
be done by some one protesting his tax and taking an appeal to the
Supreme Court." And again: "I think really that every man who has
a doubt about this can very well vote for it and take the advice of the
gentleman from Pennsylvania [Mr. Graham], which was sound then
and is sound now, that this question ought to be raised by Congress,
the only power that cani raise it, in order that it may be tested in the
Supreme Court, the only power that can decide it."

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

Opinion of the Court.

as expressly reducing the compensation from a greater to
a less sum per year, and thereby leave the way open for
indirect, yet effective, diminution, such as withholding or
calling back a part as a tax on the whole? Or, does it
mean that the judge shall have a sure and continuing right
to the compensation, whereon he confidently may rely for
his support during his conti~ne'in office, so that he
need have no apprehension est'his situation in this regard
may be changed to his disadvantage?
The Constitution was framed on the fundamental theory
that a larger measure of liberty and justice would be
assured by vesting the three great powers,-the legislative,
the executive, and the judicial,-in separate departments,
each relatively independent of the others; and it was
recognized that without this independence-if it was not
made both real and enduring-the separation would fail
of its purpose. All agreed that restraints and checks must
be imposed to secure the requisite measure of independence; for otherwise the legislative department, inherently
the strongest, might encroach on or even come to dominate
the others, and the judicial, naturally the weakest, might
be dwarfed or swayed by the other two, especially by the
legislative.
The particular need for making the judiciary independent was elaborately pointed out by Alexander Hamilton
in the Federalist, No. 78, from which we excerpt the
following:
"The Executive not only dispenses the honors, but holds
the sword of the community. The legislature not only
commands the purse, but prescribes the rules by which the
duties and rights of every citizen are to be regulated. The
judiciary, on the contrary, has no influence over either the
sword or the purse; no direction either of the strength or of
the wealth of the society; and can take no active resolution
whatever. It may truly be said to have neither force nor
. This simple view of
will, but merely judgment. . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

the matter suggests several important consequences. It
proves incontestably, that the judiciary is beyond comparison the weakest of the three departments of power;
that it can never attack with success either of the other
two; and that all possible care is requisite to enable it to
defend itself against their attacks."
"The complete independence of the courts of justice is
peculiarly essential in a limited Constitution. By a
limited Constitution, I understand one which contains
certain specified exceptions to the legislative authority;
such, for instance, as that it shall pass no bills of attainder,
no ex po8 facto laws, and the like. Limitations of this kind
can be preserved in practice no other way than through
the medium of courts of justice, whose duty it must be to
declare all acts contrary to the manifest tenor of the Constitution void. Without this, all the reservations of
particular rights or privileges would amount to nothing."
At a later period John Marshall, whose rich experience
as lawyer, legislator, and Chief Justice enabled him to
speak as no one else could, tersely said (Debates Va. Cony.,
1829-1831, pp. 616, 619):
"Advert, Sir, to the duties of a Judge. He has to pass
between the Government and the man whom that Government is prosecuting: between the most powerful individual
in the community, and the poorest and most unpopular.
It is of the last importance, that in the exercise of these
duties, he should observe the utmost fairness. Need I
press the necessity of this? Does not every man feel that
his own personal security and the security of his property
depends on that fairness? The Judicial Department comes
home in its effects to every man's fireside: it passes on his
property, his reputation, his life, his all. Is it not, to the
last degree important, that he should be rendered perfectly
and completely independent, with nothing to influence or
control him but God and his conscience?
. . -I have
always thought, from my earliest youth till now, that the

EVANS v. GORE.
24%

251

Opinion of the Court.

greatest scourge an angry Heaven ever inflicted upon an
ungrateful and a sinning people, was an ignorant, a corrupt, or a dependent Judiciary."
More recently the need for this independence was illustrated by Mr. Wilson, now the President, in the following
admirable statement:
"It is also necessary that there should be a judiciary
endowed with substantial and independent powers and
secure- against all -corrupting or perverting influences;
secure, also, Againt)ihe arbitrary authority of the administrative heads of tlhe government.
"Indee-d there is '"sense in which it may be said that the
whole efficacy and reality of constitutional government
resides in its courts. Our definition of. liberty is that it is
the best practicable adjustment between the powers of the
government and the privileges of the individual."
"Our courts are the balance-wheel of our whole constitutional system; and ours is the only constitutional system
so balanced and controlled. Other constitutional systems
lack complete poise and certainty of operation because
they lack the support and interpretation of authoritative,
undisputable courts of law. It is clear beyond all need of
exposition that for the definite maintenance of constitutional understandings it is indispensable, alike for the
preservation of the liberty of the individual and for the
preservation of the integrity of the powers of the government, that there should be some non-political forum in
which those understandings can be impartially debated
and determined. That forum our courts supply. There
the individual may assert his rights; there the government
must accept definition of its authority. There the individual may challenge the legality of governental action
and have it adjudged by the test of fundamental principles,
and that test the government must abide; there the
government' can check the too aggressive self-assertion of
the individual and establish its power upon lines which all

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

can comprehend and heed. The constitutional powers of
the courts constitute the ultimate safeguard alike of
individual privilege and of governmental prerogative. It
is in this sense that our judiciary is the balance-wheel of
our entire system; it is meant to maintain that nice adjustment between individual rights and governmental powers
which constitutes political liberty." Constitutional Government in the'United States, pp. 17, 142.
Conscious of the nature and scope of the power being
vested in the national courts, recognizing that they would
be charged with responsibilities more delicate and important than any ever before confided to judicial tribunals,
and appreciating that they were to be, in the words of
George Washington,' "the keystone of our political
fabric," the Convention with unusual accord incorporated
in the Constitution the provision that the judges "shall
hold their offices during good behaviour, and shall, at
stated times, receive for their services, a compensation,
which shall not be diminished during their continuance in
office." Can there be any doubt that the two things thus
coupled in place--the clause in respect of tenure during
good behavior and that- in respect of an undiminishable
compensation-were equally coupled in purpose? And
is it not plain that their purpose was to invest the judges
with an independence in keeping with the delicacy and
importance of their task and with the imperative need for
its impartial and fearless performance? Mr. Hamilton
said in explanation and support of the provision (Federalist, No. 79): "Next to permanency in office, nothing can
contribute more to the independence of the judges than a
fixed provision for their support.' . . . In the general
course of human nature, a power over a man's -subsistence
amounts to a power over his will.
...
The enlightened
friends of good government in every State, have seen cause
to lament the want of precise and explicit precautions in
1 Sparks' Washington, vol. X, pp. 35-36.

EVANS v. GORE.
Opinion of the Court.

245.

the State constitutions on this head. Some of these indeed have declared that permanent salaries should be
established for the judges; but the experiment has in some
instances shown that such expressions are not sufficiently
definite to preclude legislative evasions. Something still
more positive and unequivocal has been evinced to be
requisite.

.

.

.

This provision for the support of the

judges bears every mark of prudence and efficacy; and it
may be safely affirmed that, together with the permanent
tenure of their offices, it affords a better prospect of their
independence than is discoverable in the constitutions of
any of the States in regard to their own judges." The
several commentators on the Constitution have adopted
and reiterated this view, '-Judge Story adding: "Without
this provision [as to an undiminishable compensation], the
other, as to the tenure of office, would haVe been utterly
nugatory, and indeed a mere mockery"; and Chancellor
Kent observing: "It tends, also, to secure a succession of
learned men on the bench, who, in consequence of a
certain undiminished support, are enabled and induced to
quit the lucrative pursuits of private business for the
duties of that important station."
These considerations make it very plain, as we think,
that the primary purpose of the prohibition against diminution was not to benefit the judges, but, like the clause
in respect of tenure, to'attract good and competent men to
the bench and to promote that independence of action and
judgment which is essential to the maintenance of the
guaranties, limitations and pervading principles of the
Constitution and to the administration of justice without
respect to persons and with equal concern for the poor
and the rich. Such being its purpose, it is to be construed,
not as a private grant, but as a limitation imposed in the
public interest; in other words, not restrictively, but in
'2 Story, § 1628; 1 Kent's Com. *294; 1 Wilson's Works, 410, 411;
2 Tucker, § 364; Miller, 340-343; 1 Carson's Supreme Court, 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

accord with its spirit and the principle on which it proceeds.
Obviously, diminution may be effected in more ways
than one. Some may be direct and others indirect, or even
evasive as Mr. Hamilton suggested. But all which by
their necessary operation and effect withhold or take from
the judge a part of that which has been promised by law
for his services must be regarded as within the prohibition.
Nothing short of this will give full effect to its spirit and
principle. Here the plaintiff was paid the full compensation, but was subjected to an involuntary obligation to pay'
back a part, and the obligation was promptly enforced.
Of what avail to him was the part which was paid with one
hand and then taken back with the other? Was he not
placed in practically the same situation as if it had been
withheld in the first instance? Only by subordinating
substance to mere form could it be held that his compensation was not diminished. Of course, the conclusion that it
was diminished is the natural one. This is illustrated in
Dobbins v. Commissioners of Erie County, 16 Pet. 435,
450, which involved a tax charged under a law of Pennsylvania against a revenue officer of the United States who
was a citizen and resident of that State. The tax was
adjusted or proportioned to his compensation, and the
state court sustained it. 7 Watts, 513. In reversing that
decision, this court, after showing that the compensation
had been fixed by a law of Congress, said: "'Does not a
tax, then, by a state upon the office, diminishing the
recompense, conflict with the law of the United States,
which secures it to the officer in its entireness? It certainly has such an effect; and any law of a state imposing
such a tax cannot be constitutional."
But it is urged-that what the plaintiff was made to pay
back was an income tax, and that a like tax was exacted of
others engaged in private employment.
If the tax in respect of his compensation be prohibited,

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

Opinio of the Court.

it can find no justification in the taxation of other income
as to which there is no prohibition; for, of course, doing
what the Constitution permits gives no license to do what
it prohibits.
The prohibition is general, contains no excepting
words and appears to be directed against all diminution,
whether for one purpose or another; and the reasons for its
adoption, as publicly assigned at the time and commonly
accepted ever since, make with impelling force for the
conclusion that the fathers of the Constitution intended
to prohibit diminution by taxation as well as otherwise,that they regarded the independence of the judges as of far
greater importance than any revenue that could come from
taxing their salaries.
True, the taxing power is comprehensive and acknowledges few exceptions. But that there are exceptions,
besides the one we here recognize and sustain, is well
settled. In Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, it was held
that Congress could not impose an income tax in respect
of the salary of a judge of a state court; in Pollock v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 585, 601, 652,
653, it was held-the full court agreeing on this pointthat Congress was without power to impose such a tax in
respect of interest received from bonds issued by a State
or any of its counties or municipalities; and in United
States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, there was a like holding as to municipal revenues derived by the city of Baltimore from its ownership of stock in a railroad company.
None of those decisions was put on any express prohibition in the Constitution, for there is none; but all recognized and gave effect to a prohibition implied from the
independence of the States within their own spheres.
When we consider, as was done in those cases, what is
comprehended in the congressional power to tax,-where
its exertion is not directly or impliedly interdicted,-it
becomes additionally manifest that the prohibition now

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

under discussion was intended to embrace and prevent
diminution through the exertion of that power; for, as this
court repeatedly has held, the power to tax carries with it
"the power. to embarrass and ddstroy"; may be applied
to every object within its range "in such measure as Congress may determine"; enables that body "to select one
calling and. omit another, to tax one class of property and
to forbear to tax another"; and may be applied in different ways to different objects so long as there is '; geographical uniformity" in the duties, imposts and excises imposed. McCulloch v. Marylafd, 4 Wheat. 316, 431;
Pacific Insurance Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433, 443; Austin v.
The Aldermen, 7 Wall. 694, 699; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8
Wall. 533, 541, 548; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 92,
106; Treat v. White, 181 U. S. 264,. 268-269; McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27, 61; Flint v. Stonie Tracy Co.,
220 U. S. 107, 158; Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261,
282; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1, 2426. Is it not therefore morally certain that the discerning
statesmen who framed the Constitution and:.were so sedulously bent on securing the independence of the judiciary
intended to protect the compensation of the judges from
assault and diminution in the name or form of a tax?
Could not the purpose of the prohibition be wholly
thwarted if this avenue of attack were left open? Certainly there is nothing in the words of the prohibition
indicating that. it is directed against one legislative power
and not another; and in our. opinion due regard for its
spirit and principle requires that it be taken as directed
against them all.
This view finds support in rulings in Pennsylvania,
Louisiana and North Carolina made under like constitutional restrictions, Commonwealthex rel. Hepburn v. Mann,
5 Watts & Serg. 403, 415, et seq.; 1 New Orleans v. Lea, 14
The tax condemned was levied under a provision, in a general
reyenue law, charging a -tax of two per cent. "upon all salaries and

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

.257.

Opinion of the Court.

La. Ann. 197; 48 N. Car. Appendix; N. Car. Public
Documents 1899, Doc. No. 8, p. 95; 131 N. Car. 692;
Purnell v. Page, 133 N. Car. 125, and has strong sanction
in the actual practice of the Government, to which we now'
advert.
No attempt was made to tax the compensation of federal
judges prior to 1862. A statute of that year, c. 119, § 86,
12 Stat. 472, with its amendments, subjected the salaries
of all civil officers of the United States to an income tax of
three per cent. and was construed by the revenue officers
as including the compensation of the President and the
judges. Chief Justice Taney, the head of the judiciary,
wrote to the Secretary of the Treasury a letter of protest
(157 U. S. 701), based on the prohibition we are consider-.
ing, and in the course of the letter said:
"The act in question, as you interpret it, diminishes the
ompensation of every judge three per cent, and if it can
oe diminished to that extent by the name of a tax, it may
in the same way be reduced from time to time at the
pleasure of the legislature.
"The Judiciary is one of the three great departments of
the government, created and established by the Constitution. Its duties and powers are specifically set forth, and
are of a character that requires. it to be perfectly independent of the two other departments, and in order to
place it beyond the reach and above even the suspicion of
any such influence, the power to reduce their compensation is expressly withheld from Congress, and excepted
from their powers of legislation.
"Language could not be more plain than that used in
emoluments of office, created or held by or under the constitution or
laws of this Commonwealth, and by or under any incorporation, institution, or company incorporated, by the said Commonwealth,
where such salaries or emoluments exceed two hundred dollars." Act
No. 232, § 2, Penn. Laws 1840, p. 613; Act No. 117, § 9, Penn. Laws
1841. p. 310.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U.'S.

the Constitution It is moreover one of its most important
and essential provisions. For the articles which limit the
powers of the legislative and executive branches of the
government, and those which provide safeguards for the
protection of the citizen in his person and property, would
be of little value without a judiciary to uphold and maintain them, which was free from every influence, direct or
indirect, that might by possibility in times of political
excitement warp their judgments.
"Upon these grounds I regard an act of Congress retaining in the Treasury a portion of the compensation of
the judges, as unconstitutional and void."
The collection of the tax proceeded, and, at the suggestion of the Chief Justice, this court ordered his protest
spread on its records. In 1869 the Secretary of the Treasury referred the question to the Attorney General (Judge
Hoar) and that officer rendered an opinion in substantial
accord with Chief Justice Taney's protest, and also advised
that the tax on the President's compensation was likewise
invalid. 13 Ops. Atty. Gen. 161. The tax on the compensation of the President and the judges was then discontinued, and the amounts theretofore collected were all
refunded,-a part through administrative channels and a
part through the action of the Court of Claims and ensuing
appropriations byr Congress. Wayne v. United States, 26
Ct. Clms. 274; c. 311, 27 Stat. 306. Thus the Secretary of
the Treasury, the accounting officers, the Court of Claims
and Congress accepted and gave effect to the view expressed by the Attorney General. In the Income Tax Act
of 1894, c. 349, § 27, et seq., 28 Stat. 509, nothing was said
about the compensation of the judges; but Mr. Justice
Field regarded it as included and gave that as one reason
for joining in the decision holding the act unconstitutional.
157 U. S.604-606. On the rehearing the Attorney General
(Mr. Olney) frankly said iihis brief: "There has never
been a doubt since the opinion of Attorney General Hoar

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

Opinion of the Court.

that the salaries of the President and judges were exempt."
The Income Tax Acts of 1913, 1916 and 1917 (c. 16, 38
Stat. 168; c. 463, 39 Stat. 758; c. 63, 40 Stat. 329) severally
excepted the compensation of the judges then in office,also that of the President for the then currenht term. In
short, during a period of more than one hundred and
twenty years there was but a single real attempt to tax the
judges in respect of their compensation, and that attempt
soon was disapproved and pronounced untenable by the
concurring action of judicial, executive and legislative
officers. And so it is apparent that in the actual practice
of the Government the prohibition has been construed as
embracing and preventing diminution by taxation.
Does the Sixteenth Amendment authorize and support
this tax and the attendant diminution; that is to say,
does it bring within the taxing power subjects theretofore excepted? The court below answered in the negative;
and counsel for the Government say, "It is not, in view
of recent decisions, contended that this Amendment
rendered taxable as income anything which was not so
taxable before." We might rest the matter here, but it
seems better that our view and the reasons therefor be
stated in this opinion, even if there be some repetition
of what recently has been said in other cases.
Preliminarily we observe that, unless there be some
real conflict between the Sixteenth Amendment and the
prohibition, in Article III, § 1, making the compensation
of the judges undiminishable, effect must be given to the
latter as well as to the former; and also that a purpose to
depart from or imperil a constitutional principle so widely
esteemed and so vital to our system of government as
the independence of the judiciary is not lightly to be
assumed.
In Knowlton v. Moore, supra, p. 95, this court said:
"The necessities which gave birth to the Constitution,
the controversies which preceded its formation, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

conflicts of opinion which were settled by its adoption,
may properly be taken into view for the purpose of tracing
to its source any particular provision of the Constitution,
in order thereby to be enabled to correctly interpret its
meaning." This sound rule is as applicable to the Amendments as to the provisions of the original Constitution.
Let us turn then to the circumstances in which this
Amendment was proposed and ratified and to the controversy it Was intended to settle. 'By the Constitution
all direct taxes were required to be apportioned among
the several States according to their population, as
ascertained by~a census or enumeration (Art. I, § 2,cl. 3,
and § 9, cl. 4), but no such requirement was imposed as
to other taxes. Arid apart from capitation taxes, with
which we now are not concerned, no rule was given for
determining what taxes were direct and therefore to be
apportioned, or what were indirect and not within that
requirement. Controversy ensued and ultimately centered around the right classification of income from taxable real estate and from investments in taxable personal property. The matter then came before this court
in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust 'Co., 157 U. S. 429;
158 U. S. 601; and the decision when announced disclosed
that the same differences in opinion existing elsewhere
were shared by the members of the court,-five, the
controlling number, regarding a tax on such income as
in effect a direct tax on the property from which it arose
and therefore as requiring apportionment, and four regarding it as indirect and not to be apportioned. Much
of the law then under consideration had been framed
according to the latter view and becaise of this and the
adjudged inseparability of other portions the entire
law ,was held invalid. Afterwards, to enable Congress
to reach all taxable income more conveniently and effectively than would be possible as to much of it if an apportionment among the States were essential, the Sixteenth

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

Opiniod of the Court.

Amendment was proposed and ratified. In other words,
the purpose of the Amendment was to eliminate all
occasion for such an apportionment because of the source
from which the income came,-a change in no wise
affecting the power to tax but only the mode of exercising
it. The message of the President I recommending the
adoption by Congress of a joint resolution proposing the
Amendment, the debates 2 on the resolution by which it
was proposed, and the public appeals 3 -corresponding
to those in the Federalist-made to secure its ratification
leave no doubt on this point. And that the proponents
of the Amendment in drafting it lucidly and aptly expressed this as its object is shown by its words:
"The Congress shall have power to lay and collect
taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived, without
apportionment among *the several States, and without
regard to any census or enumeration."
True, Governor Hughes, of New York, in a message
laying the Amendment before the legislature of that
State for ratification or rejection, expressed some apprehension lest it might be construed as extending the taxing
power to income not taxable before; but his message
promptly brought forth from statesmen who participated
in proposing the Amendment such convincing expositions
of its purpose, 4 as here stated; that the apprehension
was effectively dispelled and ratification followed.
Thus the genesis and words of the Amendment unite
in showing that it does not extend the taxing power to
new or excepted subjects, but merely removes all occasion
otherwise existing for an apportionment among the
States of taxes laid on income, whetht-r derived from one
'Cong. Rec., yol. 44, p. 3344.
,2Cong. Rec., vol. 44, pp. 1568-1570, 3377, 3900, 4067, 4105-4107,

4108-4121,4389-4441.
Cong. Rec., vol. 45, pp. 1694-1699, 2245-2247, 2539-2540.
'Cong. Rec., vol. 45, pp. 1694-1699, 2245- 2247, 2539-2540.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

source or another.1 And we have so held in other
cases. ,
In Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1,
where the purpose and effect of the Amendment were
first drawn ii question, the Chief Justice reviewed at
length the legislative and judicial action which prompted
its adoption and then, referring to its text and speaking
for a unanimous court, said, pp. 17-18:
"It is clear on the face of this text that it does not
purport to confer power to levy income taxes in a generic
sense-an authority already lossessed and never questioned-or to limit and distinguish between one kind
of income taxes and another, but that the whole purpose
of the Amendment was to relieve all income taxes when
imposed from apportionment from a consideration of
'the source whence the income was derived. Indeed in
the light of the history which we have given and of the
decision in the Pollock Case and the ground upon which
the ruling in that case was based, there is no escape from
the conclusion that the Amendment was drawn for the
purpose of doing away for the future with the principle
upon which the Pollock Case was decided,, that is, of
determining whether a tax on income was direct not by
a consideration of the burden placed on the taxed income
upon which it directly operated, -but by taking into view
the burden which resulted on the property from which
the income was derived, since in express terms the Amendment provides that income taxes, from whatever source
'In passing the income tax law of 1919 Congress refused to treat
interest received from bonds issued by a State or any of its counties or,
municipalities as within the taxing power, Cong. Rec., vol. 57, pp. 553,
774-777, 2988; c. 18, § 213, 40 Stat. 1065; and in the regulations issued
under that law the administrative officers recognize that the salaries
and emoluments of the officers of a State and its political subdivisions
are not taxable by the United States. Reg. 45, published 1920, pp. 47,
313; 31 Ops. Atty. Gen. 441.

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

Opinion of the Court.

the income may be derived, shall not be subject to the
regulation of apportionment."
What was there said was reaffirmed and applied in
Stanton v. Baltic Mining. Co., 240 U. S. 103, 112-113, and
Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S 165, 172; and in Eisner v.
Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, decided at the present term, we
again held, citing the prior cases, that the Amendment
"did not extend the taxing power to -new subjects, but
merely removed the necessity which otherwise might
exist for an apportionment among the States of taxes laid
on income."
After further consideration, we adhere to that view
and accordingly hold that the Sixteenth Amendment
does not authorize or support the tax in question.
Apart from his salary, a federal judge is as much within
the taxing power as other men are. If he has a home or
other property, it may be taxed just as if it belonged to
another. If he has an income other than his salary, it
also may be taxed in the same way. And, speaking
generally, his duties and obligations as a citizen are not
different from those of his neighbors. But for the common
good-to render him, in the words of John Marshall,
"perfectly and completely independent, with nothing to
influence or control him but God and his conscience"his compensation is protected from diminution in any
form, whether by a tax or otherwise, and is assured to
him in its entirety for his support.
The court below concluded that the compensation
was not diminished, and regarded this as inferable from
our decisions in Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 168i 174-175,
and United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, ibid. 321, 329.
We think neither case tends to support that view. Each
related to a business-one to exportation, the other to
interstate commerce-which the taxing power-of Congress in one case, of a State in the other-was restrained
from directly burdening; and the holding in both was

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Houis and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

that an income tax laid,- not on the gross receipts,
but on the net proceeds remaining after all expenses
were paid and losses adjusted, did not directly burden
the business, but only indirectly and remotely affected
-it. Here the Constitution expressly forbids diminution
of the judge's compensation, meaning, aswe have shown,
diminution by taxation as well as otherwise. The taxing
act directs that the compensation-the full sum, with
no deduction for expenses-be included in-computing the
net income, on which the tax is laid. If the compensation be the only income, the tax falls on it alone; and,
if there be other income, the inclusion of the compensation augments the tax accordingly. In either event
the compensation suffers a diminution to the extent that
it is taxed.
We conclude that the tax was imposed contrary to the
constitutional prohibition and so must be adjudged
invalid.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs, dissenting.

This is an action brought by the plaintiff in error against
an acting Collector of Internal Revenue to recover a portion of the income tax paid by the former. The ground of
the suit is that the plaintiff is entitled to deduct from the
total of his net income six thousand dollars, being the
amount of his salary as a judge of the District Court of the
United States. The Act of February 24, 1919, c. 18, § 210,
40 Stat. 1057, 1062, taxes the net income of every individual, and § 213, p. 1065, requires the compensation
received by the judges of the United States to be included
in the gross income from which the net income is to be
computed. This was done by the plaintiff in error and the
tax was paid under protest. He contends that the requirement mentioned and the tax, .to the extent that it was
enhanced by consideration of the plaintiff's salary, are

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

HoLMEs and BRmiNzxs, JJ., dissenting.

contrary to Article III, § 1, of the Constitution, which
provides that the compensation of the judges shall not be
diminished during their continuance in office. Upon
demurrer judgment was entered for the defendant, and
the case comes here upon the single question of the validity
of the above mentioned provisions of the act.
The decision below seems to me to have been right for
two distinct reasons: that this tax would have been valid
under the original Constitution, and that if not so, it was
made lawful by the Sixteenth Amendment. In.the first
place, I think that the clause protecting the compensation
of judges has no reference to a case like this. The exemption of salaries from diminution is intended to secure the
independence of the'judges, on the ground, as it was put by
Hamilton in the Federalist, (No. 79,) that "a power over
a man's subsistence amounts to a power over his will."
That is a very good reason for preventing attempts to deal
with a judge's salary as such, but seems to me no reason
for exonerating him from the ordinary duties of a citizen,
which he shares with all others. To require a man to pay
the taxes that all other men have to pay cannot possibly be
made an instrument to attack his ilidependence as a judge.
I see nothing in the purpose of this clause of the Constitution to indicate that the judges were to be a privileged
class, free from bearing their share of the cost of the
institutions upon which their well-being if not their life
depends.
I see equally little in the letter of the clause to indicate
the intent supposed. The tax on net incomes is a tax on
the balance of a mutual account in which there always are
some and may be many items on both sides. It seems to
me that it cannot be affected by an inquiry into the source
from which the items more or less remotely are derived.
Obviously there is some point at which the immunity of a
judge's salary stops, or to put itin the language of the
clause, a point at which it could not be said that his com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
HOLMES and

BRANDEIS,

JJ., dissenting.

253 U. S.

pensation was diminished by a charge. If he bought a
house the fact that a part or the whole of the price had
been paid from his compensation as judge would not
exempt the house. So if he bought bonds. Yet in such
cases the advantages of his salary would be diminished.
Even if the house or bonds were bought with other money
the same would be true, since the money would not have
been free for such an application if he had not used his salary to satisfy other more peremptory needs. At some
point, I repeat, money received as salary loses its specific
character as such. Money held in trust loses its identity
by being mingled with the general funds of the owner. I
see no reason why the same should not be true of a salary.
But I do not think that the result could be avoided by
keeping the salary distinct. I think that the moment the
salary is received, whether kept distinct or not, it becomes
part of the general income of the owner, and is mingled
with the rest, in theory of law, as an item in the mutual account with the United States. I see no greater reason for
exempting the recipients while they still have the income
as income than when they have invested it in a house or
bond.
The decisions heretofore reached by -this Court seem to
me to justify my conclusion. In Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247
U. S.165, a tax was levied by Congress upon the income of
the plaintiff corporation. More than two-thirds of the
income were derived from exports and the Constitution in
terms prohibits any tax on articles exported from any
State. By construction it had been held to create "a
freedom from any tax which directly burdens the exportation," Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S. 283, 293. The
prohibition was. unequivocal and express, not merely an
inference as in the present case. Yet it was held unanimously that the tax was valid. "It is not laid on income
from exportation . . . in a discriminative way, but
just as it is laid on other income. . . . There is no

EVANS v. GORE.
245.

HoLuEs and

BRANDEIS,

.JJ., dissenting.

discrimination. At most, exportation is affected only
indirectly and remotely. The tax is levied . . . after
the recipient of the income is free to use it as he chooses.
Thus what is taxed-the net income--is as far removed
from exportation as are articles intended for export before
the exportation begins." 247 U. S. 174, 175. All this
applies with even greater force when, as I have observed,
the Constitution has no words that forbid a tax. In
United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 329, the
same principle was affirmed as to interstate commerce and
it was said that if there was no discrimination against such
commerce the tax constituted one of the ordinary burdens
of government from which parties were not exempted
because they happened to be engaged in commerce among
the States.
A second and independent reason why this tax appears
to me valid is that, even if I am wrong as to the scope of
the original document, the Sixteenth Amendment justifies
the tax, whatever would have been the law before it was
applied. By that Amendment Congress is given power to
"collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived."
It is true that it goes on "without apportionment among
the several States, and without regard to any census or
enumeration," and this shows the particular difficulty that
led to it. But the only cause of that difficulty was an
attempt to trace income to its source, and it seems to rie
that the Amendment was intended to put an end to t:ae
cause and not merely to obviate a single result. I do not
see how judges can claim an abatement of their income tax
on the ground that an item in their gross income is salar y,
when the power is given expressly to tax incomes frcm
whatever source derived.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.

