OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
253 U. S.

Syllabus.

be proscribed. We should follow Capital Trust Co.-.v.
Calhoun, and reverse the judgment below.
The Fifth Amendment was intended to protect the

individual against arbitrary exercise of federal power. It
declares, no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or
property, without due process of law; and this inhibition
protects every man in his right to engage in honest and

useful work for compensation.

Adair v. United States,

208 U. S. 161; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Adams v.
Tanner, 244 U. S. 590.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER
and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concur in tiLis dissent.

NEWMAN, ADMINISTRATRIX OF ERSKINE, ET
AL. v. MOYERS ET AL., PARTNERS, TRADING
AS MOYERS & CONSAUL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT

OF COLUMBIA.

No. 85.

Argued March 11, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.

Section 4 of the Omnibus Claims Act of March4, 1915, c. 140, 38 Stat.
962, limiting the amount of fees collectible by attorneys in respect
of the claims therein appropriated for, is valid. P. 185. Calhoun
v. Massie, ante, 170.
A suit by attorneys against their client and Treasury officials to enforce
a contract for fees made unlawful by an act of Congress is an attempt
to use the court for an illegal purpose and should be dismissed by the
court, sua sponte if necessary, and it is immaterial whether the
Treasury officials or the Government have any interest entitling
them to appeal. Pp. 184-185.

NEWMAN v. MOYERS.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

In a suit by attorneys against their client and Treasury officials to
enforce a contract for fees made unlawful by an act of Congress,
wherein the client failed to prosecute her appeal to this court from
a decree against her, held, that this court might open the record
and reverse the decree or dismiss the appeal for want of prosecution, leaving the court below free to take appropriate action to
prevent itself from being used as an instrument of illegality.
P. 185.
47 App. D. C. 102, reversed in part; appeal of Newman, administratrix,
dismissed for want of prosecution.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralFrierson,with whom The
Solicitor General and Mr. A. F. Myers were on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. Charles F. Consaul, with whom Ida M. Moyers was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the court.

By the Omnibus Claims Act of March 4, 1915, c. 140,
38 Stat. 962, 963, discussed in Calhoun v. Massie, decided
this day, ante, 170, Ursula Ragland Erskine became entitled to receive from the Secretary of the Treasury the
sum of $1,836.66. Long before that date she and the
firm of Moyers and Consaul, attorneys, had entered into
a contract for the prosecution of her claim against the
Government. The contract provided that the attorneys
should receive an Emount equal to fifty per cent. of the
sum collected. Its terms and the services rendered were,
in substance, identical with those set forth in Calhoun
v. Massie. In reliance upon ยง 4 of the above act, Mrs.
Erskine refused to pay or assent to the payment to the
attorneys of an amount greater than twenty per cent. of
the appropriation; and the Treasury officials were proposing to issue a warrant for twenty per cent. thereof to

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

the attorneys and another for the balance to her. Moyers
and Consaul insisted that the provision of the act limiting
fees of attorneys to twenty per cent. was invalid; and
they brought this suit in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against Mrs. Erskine, the Secretary of
the Treasury and the Treasurer of the United States to
recover the full fifty per cent. As in McGowan v. Parish,
237 U. S.285, the plaintiffs prayed that they be declared
entitled to recover from Mrs. Erskine the -amount claimed;
that the issuance to and the collection by her of any
amount from the Government be enjoined; and that
either the whole amount be paid into the Registry of the
court, or that a receiver be appointed who should collect
from the Government the whole amount and pay therefrom to plaintiffs an amount equal to fifty per cent. of
the collection. Mrs. Erskine died soon after the filing of
the bill, whereupon Sue Erskine Newman, the administratrix of her estate, was made defendant.
The Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer
moved to dismiss the bill of complaint, among other reasons, on the ground that collection of more than twenty
per cent. was prohibited by ยง 4, and that the limitation
thereby imposed was a valid exercise of congressional
power: Sue Erskine Newman, as administratrix, moved
to dismiss on the same ground, among others. The motions were overruled; and the court, entered a decree
directing payment of the money into court, ordering that.
plaintiff recover from the administratrix an amount
equal to fifty per cent. of the collection from the Government, and directing that this sum be paid out of the
funds to be so paid into court. From the decree for plaintiffs entered by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, all the defendants appealed to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia; and when the
latter affirmed the decree of the lower court, all the defendants joined in the appeal to this court. The Honor-

NEWMAN v. MlYERS.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

able Carter Glass, upon becoming Secretary of the Treasury, was substituted for the Honorable William G.
McAdoo; and the further substitution of the Honorable
David F. Houston was made when he became Secretary
of the Treasury. The appellees now move to dismiss the
appeals of the Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer
of the United States on the ground that neither they nor
the Government have any pecuniary or other interest
in the suit. They also move to dismiss the appeal of the
administratrix on the ground that she did not formally
enter her appearance in this court nor take any part in
the proceedings here.
The merits of the former motion we have no occasion
to consider, for the following reason: Section 4 of the act
limited the compensation which the attorneys may collect
or receive to twenty per cent. The act is valid. Capital
Trust Co. v. Calhoun, 250 U. S.208; Calhoun v. Massie,
supra. The plaintiffs were seeking the aid of the courts
to recover monies which an act of Congress prohibited
them from collecting or receiving. If the bill had not alleged that this act was invalid it would have been the
duty of the lower court to dismiss the bill even if none of
the defendants had raised any objection to the maintenance of the suit. Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U. S.261,
267; Lee v. Johnson, 116 U. S.48, 52; Coppell v. Hall, 7
Wall. 542, 558. The Secretary of the Treasury and the
Treasurer of the United States did make such objection.
The overruling of it in the courts below was error. The
judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded with
directions to dismiss the bill as to them.
The fact that the administratrix did not persist in her
appeal should not result in affirmance of the judgment as
to her. In Montalet v. Murray, 3 Cran3h, 249, Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall "stated the practice of the court to be,
that where there is no appeaxance for the plaintiff in
error, the defendant may have the plaintiff called, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

dismiss the writ of error; or may open the record, and
pray for an affirmance." This practice is still in force
under Rules 9 and 16 of this court. Todd v. Daniel, 16
Pet. 511; Hurley v. Jones, 97 U. S. 318; The "S. S. Osborne," 105 U. S. 447, 450-1. It is applicable to one of
several joint appellants who fails to perfect his appeal.
Yates v. Jones National Bank, 206 U. S. 158, 166, 181.
If the appellee had asked for an affirmance it is clear
that it must have been denied because of the illegal purpose
of the suit. But the court might go further. Since of its
own motion it might dismiss this appeal (Hilton V. Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165, 168), and since on dismissing it a
mandate to the lower court might issue (United .tates v.
Gomez, 23 How. 326, 330), this court might also of its own
motion entertain the alternative to dismissal spoken of
by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall,-i. e., open the record. If
it did so and perceived that the court was being used to.
attain an illegal result there would be power to reverse
the decree and remand the cause with instructions to
dismiss the bill. But in the present case such a course is
not necessary. The appellees have asked not for an affirmance, but for a dismissal, of the appeal of the administratrix. A dismissal for want of prosecution will
remit the case to the lower court in the same condition as
before the appeal was taken; and the lower court will then
be free to take appropriate action to prevent itself from
being used as an instrument in illegality. United States
v. De Pacheco, 20 How. 261; United States v. Gomez, 23
How. 326, 339-340.
Decree reversed as to appellants Houston and Burke and
cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill as to
them.
Appeal of Newman, Adm'x, dismissed for want of prosecution, and case remanded for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.

