UNITED STATES v. OMAHA INDIANS.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. OMAHA TRIBE OF INDIANS.
OMAHA TRIBE OF INDIANS v. UNITED STATES.
-APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 243, 244.

Argued March 18, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

Findings purely of fact or of mixed fact and law are not reviewable
on appeal from the Court of Claims. Pp. 280, 281.
By the Treaty of March 16, 1854, Art. 7, 10 Stat. 1043, the United
States agreed to protect the Omahas from the Sioux and other hostile tribes as long as the President might deem such protection necessary. In a suit under the jurisdictional Act of June 22, 1910, c. 313,
36 Stat. 580, held, that failure to provide necessary protection did
not render the United States liable to pay for horses stolen and
Omahas killed by the Sioux, in the absence of a finding that the protection was deemed by the President to be necessary. Pp. 280, 283.
The agreement of the United States, in the Treaty of March 6, 1865,
14 Stat. 667, to pay a certain sum to the Omahas to be expended for
cattle, etc., for their benefit, was not complied with by supplying
cattle which died after reaching the reservation as a result of bad
condition when purchased or of bad treatment while being driven
there from market; and a finding that such cattle "when they reached
the reservation were in bad condition and 50 of them died," necessarily imports that death was due to one or the other of those causes
rather than to the hardships of the drive. Pp. 279, 280.
Under the treaties of 1854, supra, Art. 4, and of 1865, supra, Art. 2,
certain moneys of the Omahas vere to be or might be expended by
the United States in the way of improvements for their benefit,
Art. 4 authorizing the President to expend part "for such beneficial
objects as in his judgment will be calculated to advance them in
civilization" and "for medical purposes." Held: (1) That a finding
that a building, constructed as an infirmary, "was not used, and it
was not such a building as was contemplated by the treaties," should
be interpreted as meaning that it was not suitable for its purpose
and was not accepted by the Indians; (2) that the Indians were not
obliged to accept it, and the expenditure was a misappropriation of
their funds "for purposes not for their material benefit," within
the jurisdictional Act of June 22,1910, supra. Pp. 279, 281.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

By the Treaty of 1854, supra, the land of the Omahas south of a certain line was ceded for a fixed consideration to be paid in the future
either in money or through expenditures for their use from time to
time at the President's discretion, and it was provided that, upon a
certain contingency (which took place), their land north of the line
"shall be and is hereby ceded" at the same rate per acre as paid for
the land south, deducting the area of a new reservation to be assigned. Held, that in the second .case, as in the first, the passing of
title was not conditioned upon payment of the consideration, and
that interest upon the amount to be paid was not allowable. Jud.
Code, § 177. P. 281.
The fact that the jurisdictional Act of June 22, 1910, supra, authorized the determination of all equitable as well as legal claims of
the tribe did not take the case out of the rule denying interest on
claims against the Government. P. 283. United States v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427, distinguished.
53 Ct. Clms. 549, reversed in part; affirmed in part.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis, with whom Mr.
Geo. T. Stormont was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Charles H. Merillat, with whom Mr. Charles J.
Kappler and Mr. Hiram Chase were on the brief, for the
Omaha Tribe of Indians.
MR.

JUSTICE

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

We have here an appeal and a cross-appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims in a suit brought under the
Act of June 22, 1910, c. 313, 36 Stat. 580, which conferred
upon that court jurisdiction to hear and determine "all
claims of whatsoever nature which the Omaha tribe of
Indians may have or claim to have against the United
States . . . under the treaty between the United
States and the said tribe of Indians, ratified and affirmed
March sixteenth, eighteen hundred and fifty-four, or under

UNITED STATES v. OMAHA INDIANS.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

any other treaties or laws, or for the misappropriation of
any funds of said tribe for purposes not for its material
benefit, or for failure of the United States to pay said tribe
any money due"; with authority to hear and determine all
legal and equitable claims of the tribe, and also any legal
or equitable defense, set-off, or counterclaim, and to settle
-the rights both legal and equitable of the parties, notwithstanding lapse of time or statutes of limitation.
The Court of Claims, after hearing the case, made findings
upon which it awarded judgment in favor of the Indians for
various sums aggregating $122,295.31. 53 Ct. Cims. 549.
By Article 1 of the Treaty of March 16, 1854 (10 Stat.
1043), the Omaha Indians ceded to the United States all
their lands west of the Missouri River and south of a line
drawn due west from a point stated, reserving the country
north of that line for their future home, with a proviso that
if this country should not, on exploration, prove to be a
satisfactory and suitable location for the Indians the
President might with their consent set apart and assign to
them, within or outside of the ceded country, a residence
suited for and acceptable to them, not greater in extent
than 300,000 acres, in which case all of the country belonging to said Indians north of the line specified should be
ceded to the United States, and the Indians should receive
the same rate per acre for it, less the number of acres
assigned in lieu of it, as was agreed to be paid for the lands
south of the line. By Article 4, in consideration of and
payment for the country thus ceded, and certain relinquishments made by the Indians, the United States agreed
to pay to them certain sums of money aggregating $840,000, in specified annual installments commencing on January 1, 1855; these sums to be paid to the Omahas or expended for their use and benefit under the direction of the
President of the United States, who was from time to time
to determine at his discretion what proportion of the annual
payments should be paid in money and what proportion

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court..

253 U. S.

applied to and expended for the moral improvement and
education of the Indians; for such beneficial objects as in
his judgment would be calculated to advance them in civilization; for buildings, opening farms, fencing, breaking
land, providing stock, etc.; and for medical purposes. By
Article 5, in order to enable the Indians to settle their affairs
and to remove and subsist themselves for one year at their
new home, and for certain other expenses, they were to receive from the United States the further sum of $41,000,
to be paid out and expended under the direction of the
President and in such manner as he should approve.
The Court of Claims found that the Omahas were not
satisfied with the country to the north of the east-and-west
line mentioned, and duly elected to take for their future
home a tract of 300,000 acres south of the line; and this
fact being reported to the President, by his direction a
tract of 300,000 acres south of the line was set apart for
them. The court found that the area of the land north
of the line belonging to the Indians was 783,365 acres, and
that after deducting from this the 300,000 acres set apart
for them in accordance with the provisions of the treaty
there was an excess of 483,365 acres, for which they had
not been paid. The price for this was fixed by taking the
aggregate of the treaty payments ($881,000) and dividing
it by 4,500,000 acres, the area of the lands south of the line
ceded by the Omahas to the United States, making the
treaty price 19.6 cents per acre, at which rate the 483,365
acres for which the Indians were still to be paid amounted
to $94,739.54. This was awarded to them.
The court found that of the $41,000 specified in Article
5, the Government expended $23,453.21 in carrying out
the provisions of that article, and the balance, $17,546.79,
remained in the hands of the Indian agents of the United
States charged with the disbursement of the treaty funds,
who were guilty of defalcations of this and other moneys to
the aggregate amount of $18,202.19. This was allowed.

UNITED STATES v. OMAHA INDIANS.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

By the 7th Article of the treaty the United States agreed
to protect the Omahas from the Sioux and all other hostile
tribes as long as the President might deem such protection
necessary. The court found that after the treaty the Sioux
made repeated attacks upon the Omahas in the year of
removal and subsequent years; that the Tnited States was
called upon by the Omahas to protect them, and such protection was necessary as soon as they removed to their new
home and for several years thereafter, but no protection
was afforded them by the United States. The Sioux
killed 22 Omahas and stole 152 horses, the latter worth
$30 per head. The court allowed $4,560 for the horses,
but made no allowance for the Indians killed.
By a treaty concluded March 6, 1865 (14 Stat. 667), the
United States agreed to pay the Omahas for the cession of
a part of their reservation the sum of $50,000, to be expended "for goods, provisions, cattle, horses," etc., for
their benefit. Pursuant to this, as the Court of Claims
found, 103 head of stock cattle were delivered in the year
1867 for which $3,432.99 was paid out of money belonging
to the Omahas. "These cattle when they reached the
reservation were it. bad condition and 50 of them died," of
an average value of $33.33 per head, the 50 being worth
$1,666.50. This sum was allowed.
Under Article 4 of the Treaty of 1854 and Article 2 of
the Treaty of 1865 certain moneys were to be or might be
expended for the benefit of the Indians in the way of improvements upon their reservation, and in other ways.
Under these provisions, in the year 1875 an infirmary was
constructed upon the Omaha and Winnebago consolidated
reservation. The Court of Claims found that this building was not used, and was not such a building as was contemplated by the treaties with the Omahas; and that of
its cost, $3,127.08 was paid out of money belonging to
them. This sum was allowed.
The principal reason for the Government's appeal lay in

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

the award to the tribe of $94,739.54 for the excess land
north of the dividing line mentioned in the treaty; it
having been contended in the court below that the tribe
owned none of that land. The Court of Claims having
found to the contrary, the Government moved this court,
after taking appeal, for an order remanding the case with
directions for further findings on the question. This
motion having been overruled, as well as a counter motion
submitted by the claimant for a certification of the entire
record to this court, the Government concedes that it cannot contest the correctness of the judgment upon this item.
As to the item of $4,560 allowed as the value of horses
killed by the Sioux Indians, we conclude that the objection
of the Government is well founded. The obligation of the
treaty was to protect the Omahas from the Sioux and other
hostile tribes "as long as the President may deem such
protection necessary." The obligation depended upon an
exercise of discretion by the President. There is no finding
of a failure to provide any protection deemed by the
President to be necessary; hence nothing to create a
liability, legal or equitable, under the treaty clause.
The item of $18,202.19 allowed for defalcations of the
Indian agents is not disputed.
The Government contests the allowance for the stock
cattle upon the ground that the fact that they were in bad
condition when they reached the reservation is not sufficient to show that they were in such condition when purchased; it being suggested that their defective condition
upon reaching the reservation may have been due to the
rigors and hardships of the drive from the market to the
reservation. We cannot so interpret the finding; deeming
its necessary import to be that the cattle either were in
bad condition when purchased or were badly cared for on
the way to the reservation. In either event the fault lay
with the agents of the United States, and the Indians were
entitled to credit for the sum allowed on this account.

UNITED STATES v. OMAHA INDIANS.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

The allowance for the infirmary is disputed upon the
ground that the treaties, fairly construed, gave authority
for expending moneys of the Omahas for this purpose,
especially the very general language of Article 4 of the
Treaty of 1854 authorizing the President to expend a part
of the fund "for such beneficial objects as in his judgment
will be calculated to advance them in civilization" and
"for medical purposes." We construe the finding, " This
building was not used, and it was not such a building as
was contemplated by the treaties," as meaning not that a
building of this general character was not contemplated,
but that the particular building was not what it ought to
have been, and not suitable for the use of the Indians. So
construed, it is either a finding upon a mere question of
fact, or at most a finding of mixed fact and law where the
question of law is inseparable. In the latter case, as in the
former, the finding, on familiar principles, is not reviewable. Ross v. Day, 232 U. S. 110, 116-117, and cases cited.
The fact that the building was not used shows that the
tribe did not accept it, and received no benefit from it.
And since, because of its unfitness, they were not obliged to
accept it, the expenditure of their money in its construction was a misappropriation of funds of the tribe "for
purposes not for its material benefit," within the meaning
of the jurisdictional act. We affirm the allowance of this
item.
Upon the cross-appeal, assignments of error are based
upon the disallowance of interest. As to the $94,739.54
awarded for the land north of the dividing line in excess
of 300,000 acres, it is contended that payment of this
consideration was a concurrent condition of the passing of
title to the United States, and as equity considers that as
done which ought to be done the purchase money was,
potentially, in the Treasury of the United States as a trust
fund, and ought to be treated as *if invested for the benefit
of the Indians at 5 per cent. interest, under Rev. Stats.,

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

§§ 2095, 2096 and 3659; or, in the alternative, that the
assumption by the United States of title to the land without compliance with the concurrent condition of payment
to the Indians and its sale by the United States tb settlers
was a breach of trust requiring the United States to
account to the Omahas for the minimum sale price of $1.25
per acre. But the provisions of Articles 1 and 4 of the
treaty show that the theory that the passing of title was
conditioned upon the payment of the consideration money,
or any part of it, is untenable; hence there was no such
trust as is asserted; and the price of the land was fixed by
the treaty itself. By Article 1 there was a cession in
prcesenti of the land south of the described line, with a
proviso that if upon exploration the country north of the
line did not prove to be a satisfactory and suitable location
for the Indians the President might, with their consent,
set apart and assign to them a suitable residence, in which
case all of the country belonging to them north of the line
"shall be and is hereby ceded to the United States by the
said Indians, they to receive the same rate per acre for it,
less the number of acres assigned in lieu of it for a home, as
now paid for the land south of said line." By Article 4
thte consideration money for the principal cession was to be
paid in the future, and either paid to the Indians direct or
expended for their use and benefit from time to time, in
the discretion of the President; and, by fair construction,
the money that the Indians were to receive under Article 1
for the additional cession of the land north of the line, in
the event of such cession taking effect, was subject to the
same terms as to payment, at least to the extent that it was
for the President to determine in his discretion whether it
should be paid in cash to the Omahas or expended for their
benefit "from time to time." Clearly, an intent to defer
passing of title until payment of consideration is negatived; and this as truly with respect to the land north of
the line as to that south of it. In both cases there was

UNITED STATES v. OMAHA INDIANS.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

simply a present cession, with a covenant for payment of
the consideration thereafter, no mention being made of
interest. Clearly, the provision of § 177, Judicial Code, is
applicable: "No interest shall be allowed on any claim up
to the time of the rendition of judgment thereon by the
Court of Claims, unless upon a contract expressly stipulating for the payment of interest."
It is contended, however, both as to the award for the
excess land and as to another claim allowed, that as the
jurisdictional act calls for the consideration of equitable as
well as legal claims, the ordinary rule of equity ought to be
followed as to the allowance of interest (Himely v. Rose,
5 Cranch, 313, 319, being cited). But the jurisdictional
act cannot be regarded as, taking the case out of the usual
rule. Tillson v. United States, 100 U. S. 43, 46; Harvey v.
United States, 113 U. S. 243, 249. Nor does United States
v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427, support the claim for interest;
for there the particular question was a subject of difference
in the negotiation that preceded -the treaty; a clause of the
treaty itself provided that it should be submitted to the
Senate of the United States for decision; the Senate allowed interest; and its determination was accepted by the
United States as valid and binding. This court held that
the decision of the Senate was controlling, and that therefore interest must be allowed upon that part of the claim,
to which it applied. See 148 U. S. 433, 449, 451, 452, 478.
The contention of claimant that the Court of Claims
erred in not making a pecuniary award for the members of
the Omaha tribe killed by the Sioux is covered by what we
have said to show that there was error in making an allowance for the horses stolen by the Sioux; the same treaty,
provision governing both claims.
Other assignments are based upon the failure of the
court to find certain facts in accordance with claimant's
contention. These require no discussion, since our review
is based upon the findings as made.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Parties.

253 U. S.

The judgment will be rev'ersed as to the sum of $4,560
awarded for horses killed by the Sioux Indians, and in
other respects affirmed.
Reversed in part; affirmed in part.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY
COMPANY v. HANCOCK.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 415.

Argued March 2, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1920.

Cars of coal destined beyond the State, as shown by memoranda delivered to the conductor at the mine, were moving from the mine
to a yard, where they were to be gathered into a train and
thence moved some miles toa weighing station, there to be weighed
and billed to specific consignees in another State, the freight
charges to be assessed -and paid from mine to consignee. Held,
in applying the Federal Employers' Liability Act, that the first
movement was part of an interstate movement. P. 286.
264 Pa. St. 220, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Gowen .Yarry for plaintiff in error and

petitioner.
Mr. IHannig Taylor for defendant in error and respondent.

