WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. BROWN.
Syllabus.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY, v.
BROWN, EXECUTOR OF LANGE, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 159. Argued January 20, 21, 1920.-Decided May 17, 1920.
One who, in repudiation of a contract which binds him to make a certain payment, sends a telegram to stop a draft previously dispatched
to meet the obligation, can not recover the amount from the telegraph company because of its negligent failure to deliver the telegram
in time. P. 113.
P and C agreed to sell and deliver, and H and -L to buy, take and receive certain shares of mining stock, "upon the following terms and
conditions:" The price stated was to be paid. part down and the remainder in equal payments on stated future dates; upon the making
of the first payment the shares, endorsed in blank, were to be deposited with a bank under an escrow agreement for delivery to H and
L when the last payment was made; the bank was constituted the
agent of P and C to receive the payments, and, in event of default
by H and L, was authorized by the terms of the deposit to deliver all
the shares to P and C, whereupon all payments theretofore made
should be forfeited to them, and "all rights of each of the parties
should forever cease and terminate." Held, not an option terminable at the will of the vendees by failure to meet deferred payments,
but an absolute agreement on their part to buy, the provision for
forfeiture of past payments and termination of the agreement in
case of their default being intended for the protection of the vendors,
and exercisable at the vendors' election. P. 110. Stewart v. Griffith,
217 U. S. 323.
The provision in such contract that upon non-payment of stipulated
sums the rights of each of the parties shall cease And determine is
the equivalent of a provision that in case of such default the contract
shall be "null and void." P. 112.
248 Fed. Rep. 656, reversed.
THE case is stated in

the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Respondents.

253 U. S.

Mr. Beverly L. Hodghead and Mr. Rush Taggart, with
whom Mr. Francis R. Stark was on the briefs, for petitioner.
The following were cited as holding that such contracts
are absolute agreements to buy as well as to sell and not
mere options, and that the forfeiture provision is for the
benefit of the vendor. James, Option Contracts, ยง 109;
Stewart v. Griffith, 217 U. S. 323; Wilcoxson v. Stitt, 65
California, 596; Central Oil Co. v. Southern Refining Co.,
154 California, 165; Weaver v. Griffith, 210 Pa. St. 13;
Vickers v. Electrozone Co., 66 N. J. L. 9; Hamburger v.
Thomas, 118 S. W. Rep. 770; Knickerbocker Life Ins.
Co. v. Norton, 96 U. S. 234; Jones v. Hert, 192 Alabama,
111; McMillen v. Strange, 159 Wisconsin, 271; Meagher
v. Hoyle, 173 Massachusetts, 573; Dana v. St. Paul Investment Co., 42 Minnesota, 196; Shenner v. Pritchard,
104 Wisconsin, 291.
Mr. Samuel Poorman,Jr., for respondents:
No absolute sale was made. Ramsey v. West, 31 Mq.
App. 676; Beckwith-Anderson Land Co. v. Allison, 26
Cal. App. 473; Verstine v. Yeaney, 210 Pa. St. 109; Pittsburg Brick Co. v. Bailey, 76 Kansas, 42; McConathy v.
Lanham, 116 Kentucky, 735; *Williamson v. Hill, 154
Massachusetts, 117; Gordon v. Swan, 43 California, 564.
The sale and purchase were declared to be "upon
conditions;" and one of those was that upon default by
plaintiffs in paying any instalment "all rights of each of
said parties hereunder shall forever cease and determine."
The intention here was that, upon default, there should be
effected automatically a wiping out of all rights of either
party. In precise phrase the contract defined the only
rights existing in case of default and the very steps to be
then taken by the depositary in escrow, and expressly
declared the non-existence of any other rights whatsoever.
A forfeiture is not favored by the law; and a forfeiture

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. BROWN.
101.

Opinion of the Court.

that can be invoked or not, according to the election of
only one of the parties to a contract, should meet with
especial disfavor. But where the forfeiture is in a manner
compensated for by having the effect of wiping out all
rights and liabilities under the contract, there is less reason
for viewing it askance. The vendor will always seek to
frame the contract in terms giving himself the election
either to enforce a forfeiture or to compel a nerformance.
Without a word in the contract on the subject, tho law
would give him this election. Glock v. Howard Co., 123
California, 1. Therefore, when the parties insert a provision as to forfeiture and the termination of all rights of
each of them by the mere fact of defaulting in payment,
it is reasonable to suppose that they intended thereby to
assent to something different from what the law itself
would have read into the contract in the absence of such
a provision.
The present is not a case wherein ordinary property
was the subject-matter of the contract, as in Wilcoxson
v. Stitt, 65 California, 596 (city realty); but is one where
the investment was of the same hazardous nature as in
Gordon v. Swan, supra (a mine), and in Williamson v.
Hill, supra (patent rights), in the latter of which it was
said that the purchaser's right under such a contract was
to determine, from time to time, whether he would pay an
additional instalment and thus continue the contract
in force for a further period, or whether he would forfeit
what he had already paid, forego any rights to the property, and escape further liability. Distinguishing: Cape
May Real Estaie Co. v. Henderson, 231 Pa. St. 82; WiIcoxson v. Stitt, 65 California, 596; Stewart v. Griffith, 217
U. S. 323.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an acti6n by Brown, executor of Lange, and
Hastings to recover damages from the Western Union

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

Telegraph Company for failure to deliver a message sent
by Hastings and Lange to the Lyon County Bank, Yerington, Nevada. A judgment was recovered against the
Telegraph Company in the District Court, which was
affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit. 248 Fed. Rep. 656. The case is here upon writ of
certiorari.
Upon stipulation the case was tried in the District Court
without a jury, and the court made findings from which
it appears: On March 16, 1907, W. C. Pitt and W. T.
Campbell entered into a contract with Hastings and
Lange for the sale of 625,000 shares of the capital stock of
the Kennedy Consolidated Gold Mining Company. In
this contract it was stipulated that Pitt and Campbell
agreed to sell and deliver to Hastings and Lange, who
agreed to buy, take, and receive from them 625,000 shares
of the Kennedy Consolidated Gold Mining Company,
upon the following terms and conditions: First. The
total price to be paid for the shares of stock to be $75,000
in gold coin of the United States payable $7,500 on the
execution of the agreement; $11,250 oD or before the first
day of May, 1907; and the like sum on or before the 5th
of July, 1907, the 5th of September, 1907, the 5th of
November, 1907, the 5th of January, 1908, and the 15th of
March, 1908. It was agreed that immediately upon payment of the first-named sum, Pitt and Campbell would
deposit in escrow in and with the Lyon County Bank, of
Yerington, Nevada, certificates of stock indorsed in blank
representing in the aggregate 625,000 shares of the capital
stock of the Mining Company, and would thereupon
enter into an escrow agreement with .Hastings and Lange
and the bank, under which -agreement the bank should
hold the shares of stock to be delivered to Hastings and
Lange upon the payment by them of the final sum provided for, and the bank was constituted the agent of Pitt
and Campbell for the purpose of receiving the payments

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. BROWN.
101.

Opinion of the Court.

under the agreement, and' it was further agreed that in
event of default by Hastings and Lange the bank should
be authorized under the terms of such deposit in escrow,
to deliver all the shares of stock, so deposited with it, to
Pitt and Campbell, and all payments theretofore made by
Hastings and Lange should be forfeited to Pitt and Campbell, and that thereupon all rights of each of the parties
should forever cease and terminate. Hastings and Lange
paid to Pitt and Campbell the initial sum of $7,500, and
Pitt and Campbell deposited in escrow with the Lyon
County Bank certificates of stock representing 625,000
shares of the stock of the Mining Company properly indorsed, and the bank received said certificates in escrow
and held the same in accordance with the contract. After
the execution of the contract Hastings and Lange arranged
with the bank to treat drafts that they might send it in
partial payment as gold coin, and to pay the amount of
such drafts in gold coin to Pitt and Campbell under said
contract. That, for the purpose of making the payment,
mentioned in the contract, which became due on or before
May 1, 1907, Hastings and Lange on April 27, 1907, sent
by mail from Oakland, California, to the Lyon County
Bank, at Yerington, Nevada, a draft for the sum of
$11,250 United States gold coin, payable to the order of the
bank; that the draft was received by the bank at Yerington, Nevada, on April 30, 1907, some time between 8:30
A. M., the time the bank opened for business, and 9
o'clock A. M., of that day; that on April 29, 1907, before
the message, hereinafter mentioned, was delivered to the
Telegraph Company, Hastings and Lange were informed
and believed that the stock of the Mining Company was
of little or no value, and, upon obtaining such information,
they determined to make no further payments on their
contract with Pitt and Campbell, and to abandon their
rights in and to said stock, and to withdraw from the
transaction with Pitt and Campbell. It is further found

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

that on the evening of April 29, 1907, plaintiffs called at
the office of the defendant in Oakland, California, and
requested the agent in charge to telegraph the Lyon
County Bank at Yerington, Nevada, as follows:
"Oakland, April 29, 1907.
Lyon County Bank,
Yerington, Nevada.
Draft mailed you Saturday under mistake. Do not pay
any sum to Pitt or Campbell. Return draft. Letter
follows.
Hastings and Lange.'
'Hastings and Lange stated to the agent of the Telegraph
Company that it was necessary that the message be delivered to the bank before banking hours on the following
morning, that is, before it opened for business on the 30th
day of April, 1907, and desired to know of the agent in
what manner they could be absolutely assured that the
message would be so delivered, stating to the agent that
they had a contract for the purchase of certain shares of
stock of a mining company, and that payment under the
contract was required to be made by them on or before
May 1, 1907, to Pitt and Campbell through the bank, and
that in default thereof the contract to purchase the stock
would by its terms be forfeited, and the rights of the parties
thereto would cease and terminate; that for the purpose
of making the payment they had mailed to the bank a
certain bank draft in the sum of $11,250; that in the
ordinary course of the mail between the city of Oakland,
California, and the town of Yerington, Nevada, the same
would be delivered to the bank on the following morning,
that is to say, during the forenoon of April 30, 1907; that
since mailing the draft they had learned facts touching
the value of the stock which had determined them to make
96
nfurther payments and to forfeit the contract and all
money by them paid thereunder; that they were seeking

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. BROWN.
101.

Opinion of the Court.

by the message to intercept payment by the bank on
account of the contract to said Pitt and Campbell, and
that unless such message were transmitted, and delivered
immediately to the bank before banking hours on April
30, 1907, it would receive the draft and make payment of
the amount thereof to Pitt and Campbell, in which event
the amount would be wholly lost to them as they did not
intend to continue under their contract, having learned
that the stock was of little or no value. It was further
found that thereupon the agent represented that the
Telegraph Company would insure the immediate delivery
of the message to the bank at Yerington if plaintiffs would
pay the sum of $1.45, which sum was in excess of the
Company's regular charge. Plaintiffs accepted the proposal, and paid the sum to the agent, and, in the presence
of the plaintiffs, the agent thereupon wrote upon the
message, immediately below the date thereof, the words:
"Deliver immediately," and accepted the message for
immediate transmission to the town of Yerington for
immediate delivery to the bank and agreed to immediately
transmit and immediately deliver it to the bank for the
plaintiffs, and assured the plaintiffs of such immediate
transmission and immediate delivery thereof; that the
sum of $1.45 was in excess of the defendant's regular
charge and usual toll, the usual charge for an unrepeated
message being 98j, and for a repeated message the sum of
$1.47. The message was written upon a blank form of the
Telegraph Company, which is set forth in the findings.
It is further found that neither Hastings nor Lange read
the printed matter on the blank, nor was either of them
cognizant of the terms and conditions written thereon.
The message was not repeated in the manner provided in
the stipulations on the blank. That the regular course of
communication by telegraph between Oakland, California,
and Yerington, Nevada, was by the lines of the Western
Union Telegraph Company to Wabuska, Nevada, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

was the terminus of the Telegraph Company's lines for
Yerington messages and that in order to transmit telegrams beyond Wabuska it was necessary that they be
transmitted from that point over the telephone line of the
Yerington Electric Company to Yerington; that each of
the companies received all messages offered it by the other
company for further transmission, subject to the stipulations on telegraphic blanks, each company having and
charging its separate toll. That the offices of the Electric Company and the Telegraph Company were both
maintained in the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
station at Wabuska, and that the telephone instrument of
the Electric Company was within a few feet of the telegraphic instruments of the Telegraph Company; that at
the time the Southern Pacific Railroad Company employed an agent at Wabuska to attend to its railway
business, and that by an arrangement between the Railroad Company and the Telegraph Company said agent
was employed to attend to the telegraph business of the
Telegraph Company at Wabuska; that by agreement
between the Railroad Company and the Electric Company
the agent of the Railroad Company was at the same time
employed by the Electric Company to handle the telephone business of the Electric Company; that there was a
regular stage line open between Yerington and Wabuska
in April and May, 1907; that the distance between
Yerington and Wabuska was approximately eleven miles,
and could be traversed in the stage in about one and onehalf hours.
It is found that the Telegraph -Company did not
promptly, upon the receipt of the message on the evening of April 29, 1907, transmit it to the town of Wabuska,
Nevada; that the defendant did not, promptly deliver
the message to the Electric Company for further transmission over its telephone line to Yerington, Nevada,
but on the contrary defendant wholly failed and neglected

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. BROWN.
101.

Opinion of the Court.

to transmit the message to Wabuska until May 2, 1907,
and wholly failed and neglected to deliver it to the Electric Company until May 2, 1907; that the delay in the
transmission of the message occurred wholly on the lines
of the Telegraph Company, and was caused by that
company, and did not occur on the lines of the telephone
of the Yerington Electric Company.
It is further found that if the Telegraph Company had
proceeded with reasonable promptness to transmit and
deliver the message to the bank, the same would have
reached Yerington before the bank had received the draft
mailed to it as aforesaid, and it would not have placed
the amount represented thereby to the credit of Pitt and
Campbell, or either of them, or paid any amount thereon;.
that by reason of the gross negligence of the Telegraph
Company the message was not delivered to the bank
until May 2, 1907; that on April 30, between the hours
of 8:30 and 9 A. M., the bank had received the draft and
thereafter on that day had paid over the amount thereof
in gold coin to Pitt and Campbell pursuant to the terms
-of the contract between the plaintiffs and Pitt and Campbell on account of the payment to be made on or before
May 1, 1907, and had given credit to Hastings and Lange
for the amount of said payment, all of which was done
without any knowledge of said message or the deternination of Hastings and Lange to recall said draft; that
Hastings and Lange did not make any further payments
on the purchase price of said shares of stock, but abandoned the contract with Pitt and Campbell and forfeited and lost all moneys paid thereon.
It was found that the 625,000 shares of stock of the
Kennedy Consolidated Gold Mining Company have
been at all times, and since and including April 29, 1907,
practically valueless.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held: (1) That the contract was an option terminable by the buyers' failure to

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of -the Court.

253 U. S.

make the payments required; (2) The oral agreement for
the transmission of the message was a binding agreement
upon the Western Union Telegraph Company; (3) That
under the circumstances the Telegraph Company was
guilty of gross negligence in failing to transmit and deliver the message. The court thereupon affirmed the
judgment of the District Court for the amount of the
payment, adding interest.
In our view of the case it is unnecessary to consider the
correctness of the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals as to the binding obligation of the oral contract
made with the agent of the Telegraph Company, or tb?
question of negligence of the Company in the transmission
and delivery of the message. The right of Hastings and
Lange to recover was based upon the theory that the
contract was an option terminable by the act of the buyer
in failing to make the payment on the contract, which
payment, it is found, would not have been made had the
message been promptly delivered. An option is a privilege given by the owner of property to another to buy
the property at his election. It secures the privilege to
buy and is not of itself a purchase. The owner does not
sell his property; he gives to another the right to buy at
his election.
What then is the nature of this agreement? It contains
the positive undertaking of the owner to sell and the
purchaser to buy 625,000 shares of stock upon terms
which are named. Upon the first payment being made,
the certificates are to be deposited with the bank in escrow, to be delivered when the final payment agreed
upon is made, and in event of default in payment the bank
is authorized to deliver the shares of stock to Pitt and
Campbell, and all payments are to be forfeited, and the
rights of the parties to cease and determine. We are of
opinion that this is far more than a mere option to purchase, terminable at the will of the purchaser upon failure

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. BROWN.
101.

Opinion of the Court.

to make the payments required. The agreement contains
positive provisions binding the owner to sell and the
purchaser to buy upon the terms of the instrument. It
is true the stock is to be deposited with the bank in escrow,
and it is authorized to deliver the same to Pitt and Campbell upon default in payment. The findings do not show
whether Pitt and Campbell took back the stock upon
default of. subsequent payments. There was no understanding that Pitt and Campbell should take back the
stock when the payments were not made, and no agreement which put it in the power of the purchasers to relieve
themselves of the obligations of their contract by failing
to keep up the payments. The right of Pitt and Campbell to receive the stock from the bank and end the contract was stipulated; it was a provision inserted for their
benefit, of which they might avail themselves at their
election.
In our opinion Stewart v. Griffith, 217 U. S. 323, is controlling upon this point. In that case there was a sale of
land and the purchaser by the terms of the agreement
paid $500 as part of the purchase price. It was provided
that in case of non-payment of the balance of the first
half of the purchase price on November 7, 1903, the $500
paid on the contract was to be forfeited and the contract
of sale and conveyance was to be null and void and of no
effect. The contention was that the defendant was free
to withdraw from the contract if he chose to lose the
$500. But this court held, after considering the terms of
the contract, that the $500 was part of the purchase
price to be paid; that the land was described as being
sold, and that in view of such stipulations, the purchaser
had bound himself to take the land. As to the provision
for the forfeiture of the $500, and the stipulation that
the contract should become null and void upon nonpayment of the remainder of the purchase price, this
court said: "The condition plainly is for the benefit of

OCTOBER TER M, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

253 U. S.

the vendor and hardly less plainly for his benefit alone,
except so far as it may have fixed a time when Stewart
might have called for performance if he had chosen to do
.so, which he did not. This being so, the word void means
voidable at the vendor's election and the condition may
be insisted upon or waived at this choice. Insurance
Co. v. Norton, 96 U. S. 234; Oakes v. Manufacturers' Insurance Co., 135 Massachusetts, 248, 249; Titus v. Glen
Falls Ins. Co., 81 N. Y. 410, 419."
The condition in the contract in Stewart v. Grifflith that
non-payment should render the contract null and void
is the equivalent of the stipulation in the present agreement, much relied upon by the respondents, that upon
non-payment of the stipulated sums the rights of each of
said parties should cease and determine. We think the
attempted distinction between Stewart v. Griffith and
the instant case is untenable.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reinforced its conclusion
that the contract was an option by stating that it was
usual to sell mining property under privileges of purchase, and when investigation showed that the property
was not valuable, to terminate such options by forfeiting
the sums paid therefor, and declining to make future
payments. It is true that undeveloped mining property
is often sold under option agreements. (See 3rd Lindley
on Mines, ยง 859.) But there is nothing to show that this
contract was dependent upon the development of the
mining property. The written agreement contains a
positive'undertaking to sell upon the one part, and upon
the other part to buy, shares of the mining stock. Whether
the shares sold constituted all the shares of the company
does not appear. Nor is the relative proportion of those
sold to the whole amount of the stock anywhere shown.
The fact that the contract contains a privilege of ending
it at the election of the vendor for non-payment of the
sum stipulated, does not convert it into an option ter-

UNITED STATES b. ALASKA S. S. CO.
101.

Syllabus.

minable by the purchasers at their will.

Stewart v.

Griffith, supra.

As the recovery of the amount paid, with interest, as
adjudged in the Circuit Court of Appeals, is founded
upon its conclusion that the contract was an option, and
the damages the amount paid and forfeited by the failure to stop the payment of the draft, and as we are not
able to accept that view of the contract, it follows that

the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed, and the cause remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. ALASKA STEAMSHIP COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR

No. 541.

THE

SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

OF NEW

YORK.

Argued December 16, 17, 1919.-Decided May 17, 1920.

This court will determine only matters actually in controversy essential
to the decision of the particular case before it. P. 115.
In a suit .in which the Interstate Commerce Commission was temporarily enjoined from requiring interstate and water carriers to use
certain forms of bills of lading in domestic and export transportation,
upon the ground that the Commission lacked power to prescribe
them, held, that, since the Transportation Act of Feby. 28, 1920,
-passed pending the interlocutory appeal, contained provisions which
would necessitate changes in both forms of bills, the case had be-

come moot, and the court could not pass upon the Commission's
authority, but would reverse the order of injunction, no longer
needed to protect the complainants against the order of the Commission involved in the suit, without prejudice to the right to assail

any such order adopted after the new legislation, and without costs
to either party. Id.
259 Fed. Rep. 713, reversed.

