OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

SHELDON

ET AL.

309 U. S.

v. METRO-GOLDWYN PICTURES
CORP. ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 482. Argued February 8, 9, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.
1. That clause of § 25 (b) of the Copyright Act which authorizes
recovery from an infringer, "in lieu of actual damages and profits,"
of "such 'damages as to the court shall appear to be just," is
inapplicable where the only matter in question is the apportionment of profits established. P. 399.
2. The purpose of § 25 (b) of the Copyright Act, in awarding to a
copyright proprietor against an infringer "all the profits which the
infringer shall have made from such infringement," is to provide
just compensation for the wrong-not to impose a penalty by
giving to the copyright proprietor profits which are not attributable
to the infringement. P. 399.
3. Where it is clear that the profits made by a copyright infringer
are attributable in part to use of copyright material, but in part to
what the infringer himself supplied, and where the evidence provides a fair basis of division, so as to give the copyright proprietor all the profits that can be deemed to have resulted from
the use that belonged to him, the profits will be apportioned
accordingly. Callaghan v. Myers, 128 U. S. 617, and Belford v.
Scribner, 144 U. S. 488, distinguished. Pp. 399-402.
4. Principles governing apportionment of profits in patent infringement cases apply to cases of copyright infringement. P. 402.
5. In apportionment of profits between copyright proprietor and
infringer, where mathematical exactness may be impossible, all that
is required is a reasonable approximation, which may be attained
with the aid of expert testimony. P. 403.
6. The amendment of the Patent Law (R. S. § 4921; Act of February 18, 1922) which expressly recognizes the use of expert testimony in establishing damages or profits from patent infringement,
did not enlarge in that respect the rules already applied in courts
of equity; and the fact that the copyright law was not similarly
amended does not detract from the jurisdiction to receive evidence
of experts in copyright infringement cases whenever* found competent. P. 405.

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP.
390

391

Argument for Petitioners.

7. Even in a case of deliberate plagiarism, the copyright owner, upon
an equitable accounting of profits, can have only such profits as
were due to the infringement. To award more would be to inflict
an unauthorized penalty. P. 405.
8. Where the evidence showed that in the production of a motion
picture, which was exhibited at great profit, material had been
deliberately lifted from a copyrighted play, but that much the
greater part of the profits was due to the actors, scenery, skill
in production, expenses, etc., supplied and paid for by the infringers, an apportionment, with the aid of expert testimony,
resulted in awarding one-fifth to the copyright proprietors. P. 406.
106 F. 2d 45, affirmed..

CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 545, to review the reversal of a
decree, 26 F. Supp. 134, which awarded to the present
petitioners all of the net profits derived by the respondents from a motion picture infringing the petitioners'
copyright. No question of burden of proof was involved.
Mr. Arthur F. Driscoll, with whom Mr. Edward J.
Clarke was on the brief, for petitioners.
The court below failed to follow the statute. Callaghan v. Myers, 128 U. S. 617; Belford v. Scribner, 144
U. S. 488; Dam v. LaShelle, 175 F. 902. The infringee
is entitled to "all the profits."
Apportionment in trademark cases is "inherently impossible." Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. v. Wolf Bros., 240
U. S. 251. See, also, Graham v. Platt, 40 Cal. 593, 598.
This Court refused to apply analogies of patent to trademark cases, notwithstanding Westinghouse v. Wagner,
225 U. S. 604, or Dowagiac Mfg. Co. v. Minnesota Plow
Co., 235 U. S. 641.
Apart from the fact that both a patent and a copyright are statutory monopolies there is nothing in
common between them.
Two authors working independently could conceivably
write the same work. Both would be entitled to a

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioners.

309 U. S.

valid copyright. There can be a plurality of copyrights.
Dymow v. Bolton, 11 F. 2d 690, 691; Sheldon v. Metro
Goldwyn Pictures Corp., 81 F. 2d 49, 54.
A patent is invalidated by reason of prior art or anticipation; but a copyright, as provided in § 6, may be had
on the rewriting of works in the public domain.
"Public domain," refers to those works upon which
copyright has expired or which have been published without its protection, and are therefore open to the public
to make copies thereof. The court below confuses this.
It says "the plaintiffs worked over old material. The
general skeleton was already in the public demesne."
It apparently made no express apportionment on the
basis of this statement; but if it did the error is
aggravated.
Respondents are charged with having copied, not the
trial of Madeleine Smith, but our dramatization of it.
The fact that the trial inspired the writing of the play
does not diminish petitioners' rights against respondents
for having copied. Emerson v. Davies, 8 Fed. Cas. 615,
620; Macmillan v. Cooper, 40 T. L. R. 186; Bleistein v.
Donaldson, 188 U. S. 238, 250; Jewelers' Circular Pub.
Co. v. Keystone Pub. Co., 281 F. 83, 88.
The question in a patent suit is: Does the device impinge upon the bounds of the patent owner's grant? The
question in a copyright suit is: Has one work been
"copied" from another? If the work is properly protected
but copied the recovery follows under the statute. Cf.
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. v. Wagner Electric &
Mfg. Co., 225 U. S. 604, 614.
If industry can copy the work of an author; escape the
hazard of an injunction because the arm of equity is not
quick enough to stop the wrong before it has run; and
after eight years of crushing litigation retain 80% of the
gains, there is little incentive left for industry to consult
with or make contracts with authors.

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP.
390

393

Argument for Petitioners.

The law was designed as a deterrent to plagiarismthe copyright owner was given "all the profits" be they
great or small. The law was not designed with regard
to the ultimate position of the copyright owner-his
recovery to be varied with the amount of the profits.
The design of the law was to deprive the wrongdoer of
all profits-not all profits if the infringement is a financial failure, and 20% of the profits if the infringement
is a success.
Granting arguendo that there should be apportionment, the basis used by the court below has never been
recognized even in the field of patents.
Apportionment in patent law can not rest upon the
skill, science and endeavor which went into the making
of the infringing device but must rest upon some separable item of a distinct and independent character.
Clark v. Johnson, 199 F. 116, 122.
An apportionment on the basis used below is merely
an apportionment for labor and materials used in manufacturing the infringing copy,' the cost of which has
already been allowed as an item of expense.
It is immaterial whether the infringing copy is good,
bad or indifferent. Both the infringer and the infringee
alike have to abide by the result of the taking. Tilghman
v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 138, 140; Crosby Valve v. Consolidated Valve Co., 141 U. S. 441; Elizabeth v. Am. Nicholson Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, 138; Livingston v. Woodsworth, 15 How. 559.
The basis of the apportionment below is founded on
the brand of talent and skill used by the infringer in
the making of the copy. We call this nothing more
than an apportionment on a labor and material basis.
It is merely an item of cost to be allowed before arriving at the figure of profit, but not a basis upon which to
apportion that profit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioners.

309 U. S.

But the court below, not only allowed the cost of the
labor and material, but allowed respondents to share in
the profits to the extent of 80%. Such treatment is
never found in patent cases. Duplate Corporation v.
Triplex Safety Glass Co., 298 U. S. 448, 457; Conroy v.
Pennsylvania Electric & Mfg. Co. 199 F. 427, 430, 431;
Christensen v. National Brake & Electric Co., 10 F. 2d
856, 866; aff'd 38 F. 2d 721; cert. den. 282 U. S. 864.
If there were to be an apportionment based upon the
analogy of patents, it should be by a segregation of the
copyrighted material from the added non-copyrighted
portion.
In patent cases, the profits may be attributable to other
portions of the machine because the unpatented portion
may still stand as a useful mass and be viewed in its
distinct and independent character. Clark v. Johnson,
199 F. 116; Garretsonv.Clark, 111 U. S. 120.
The courts do not consider what portion of the profit
may be ascribed to the defendant's good workmanship
in infringing within the scope of the patent. Clark v.
Johnson, supra.
It follows from the decision below that the right granted
to the copyright owner to recover "all the profits" under
the Act does not extend to the very good or glorified
copies of his work, but only to those inferior or mediocre
copies where the profits are not very great. The wrongdoer, if he is skillful, is to be credited with a share of the
spoils. See, Stearns-Roger Mfg. Co. v. Ruth, 87 F. 2d
35, 39; Christensenv. National Brake & Electric Co., 10
F. 2d 856, 866.
An infringer in an accounting for profits is viewed as a
trustee ex maleficio. Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. v. Wolf
Bros. Co., 240 U. S. 251, 259; Westinghouse v. Wagner,
225 U. S. 604, 618, 619; Root v. Railway Co., 105 U. S.
189; Wales v. Waterbury Mfg. Co., 101 F. 126; Western
Glass Co. v. Schmertz Wire Glass Co., 226 F. 730, 735.

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP.
390

395

Argument for Petitioners.

He may retain no benefit from his wrong. Duplate Corp.
v. Triplex Safety Glass Co., 298 U. S. 448, 457; Crosby
Steam Gage & Valve Co. v. Consolidated Safety Valve
Co., 141 U. S. 441.
This Court in softening the previous hard and fast
"alternative rule" of Garretson v. Clark, 111 U. S. 120,
as respects burden of proof, by its decisions in Westinghouse Co. v. Wagner, 225 U. S. 604, and Dowagiac Mfg.
Co. v. Minnesota Plow Co., 235 U. S. 641, has restricted its
application to those cases where the infringement was not
done in bad faith.
See, Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Fox Typewriter Co.,
220 F. 880, 886; Brennan & Co. v. Dowagiac Mfg. Co.,
162 F. 472, 476; Dowagaic Mfg. Co. v. Superior Drill Co.,
162 F. 479; Hart v. Ten Eyck, 2 Johns Ch. 62, 108; Lupton v. White, 15 Ves. Jr. 432-440.
The payment of $922,141.09 to Messrs. Mayer, Rubin
and Thalberg, in addition to salaries of $130,000, $104,000
and $208,000 respectively in the year 1932, is a distribution of profits and is not properly allowed as cost. Lee v.
Malleable Iron Range Co., 247 F. 795, 798.
The statute was framed (1) to punish the infringer,
and (2) to compensate the copyright owner for his loss.
Providence Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 76 U. S. 788, 804;
Dean v. Mason, 20 How. 198; Root v. Railway Co., 105
U. S. 189, 207; Ferris v. Frohman, 223 U. S. 424, 437;
Larson Co. v. Wrigley Co., 277 U. S. 97.
A deliberate trespasser is not entitled to cost. Bolles
Woodenware Co. v. United States, 106 U. S. 432; Guffey
v. Smith, 237 U. S. 101; Williamson v. Chicago Mill &
Lumber Corp., 59 F. 2d 918; Pittsburgh & West Virginia
Gas Co. v. PentressGas Co., 7 A. L. R. 901; 100 S. E. 296;
Restatement of the Law on Restitution, § 158 at page
632.
The "in lieu of" provision in § 25 (b) is not involved
here. It means that in the absence of profits the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

has discretion to fix such damages as may be just. Douglas v. Cunningham, 294 U. S. 207, 209; Davilla v. Brunswick-Balke-Collender Co., 94 F. 2d 567; Hendricks
v. Thomas, 242 F. 37, 41; Dam v. LaShelle, 175 F. 902,
911.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. J. Robert
Rubin, Samuel D. Cohen, and Earle L. Beatty were on
the brief, for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIci

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The questions presented are whether, in computing an
award of profits against an infringer of, a copyright,
there may be an apportionment so as to give to the owner
of the copyright only that part of the profits found to be
attributable to the use of the copyrighted material as
distinguished from what the infringer himself has supplied, and, if so, whether the evidence affords a proper
basis for the apportionment decreed in this case.
Petitioners' complaint charged infringement of their
play "Dishonored Lady" by respondents' motion picture
"Letty Lynton," and sought an injunction and an accounting of profits. The Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversing the District Court, found and enjoined the infringement and directed an accounting. 81 F. 2d 49.
Thereupon the District Court confirmed with slight
modifications the report of a special master which
awarded to petitioners all the net profits made by respondents from their exhibitions of the motion picture,
amounting to $587,604.37. 26 F. Supp. 134, 136. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, holding that there
should be an apportionment and fixing petitioners' share
of the net profits at one-fifth. 106 F. 2d 45, 51. In
view of the importance of the question, which appears

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP. 397
390

Opinion of the Court.

to be one of first impression in the application of the
copyright law, we granted certiorari. December 4, 1939.
Petitioners' play "Dishonored Lady" was based upon
the trial in Scotland, in 1857, of Madeleine Smith for the
murder of her lover,-a cause c6lbre included in the
series of "Notable British Trials" which was published
in 1927. The play was copyrighted as an unpublished
work in 1930, and was produced here and abroad.
Respondents took the title of their motion picture "Letty
Lynton" from a novel of that name written by an English
author, Mrs. Belloc Lowndes, and published in 1930.
That novel was also based upon the story of Madeleine
Smith and the motion picture rights were bought by
respondents. There had been negotiations for the
motion picture rights in petitioners' play, and the price
had been fixed at $30,000, but these negotiations fell
through.
As the Court of Appeals found, respondents in producing the motion picture in question worked over old material; "the general skeleton was already in the public
demense. A wanton girl kills her lover to free herself
for a better match; she is brought to trial for the murder
and escapes." But not content with the mere use of
that basic plot, respondents resorted to petitioners' copyrighted play. They were not innocent offenders. From
comparison and analysis, the Court of Appeals concluded
that they had "deliberately lifted the play"; their "borrowing was a deliberate plagiarism." It is from that
standpoint that we approach the questions now raised.
Respondents contend that the material taken by infringement contributed in but a small measure to the production and success of the motion picture. They say that
they themselves contributed the main factors in producing
the large net profits; that is, the popular actors, the scen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

ery, and the expert producers and directors. Both courts
below have sustained this contention.
The District Court thought it "punitive and unjust"
to award all the net profits to petitioners. The court said
that, if that were done, petitioners would receive the
profits that the "motion picture stars" had made for the
picture "by their dramatic talent and the drawing power
of their reputations." "The directors who supervised the
production of the picture and the experts who filmed it
also contributed in piling up these tremendous net
profits." The court thought an allowance to petitioners
of 25 per cent. of these profits "could be justly fixed as a
limit beyond which complainants would be receiving
profits in no way attributable to the use of their play in
the production of the picture." But, though holding
these views, the District Court awarded all the net profits
to petitioners, feeling bound by the decision of the Court
of Appeals in Dam v. Kirk La Shelle Co., 175 F. 902, 903,
a decision which the Court of Appeals has now overruled.
The Court of Appeals was satisfied that but a small
part of the net profits was attributable to the infringement, and, fully recognizing the difficulty in finding a
satisfactory standard, the court decided that there should
be an apportionment and that it could fairly be made.
The court was resolved "to avoid the one certainly unjust
course of giving the plaintiffs everything, because the defendants cannot with certainty compute their own share."
The court would not deny "the one fact that stands undoubted," and, making the best estimate it could, it fixed
petitioners' share at one-fifth of the net profits, considering that to be a figure "which will favor the plaintiffs in
every reasonable chance of error."
First. Petitioners insist fundamentally that there can
be no apportionment of profits in a suit for a copyright
infringement; that it is forbidden both by the statute
and the decisions of this Court. We find this basic argument to be untenable.

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP.
390

399

Opinion of the Court.

The Copyright Act in § 25 (b)I provides that an infringer shall be liable"(b) To pay to the copyright proprietor such damages
as the copyright proprietor may have suffered due to the
infringement, as well as all the profits which the infringer
shall have made from such infringement, . . . or in lieu
of actual damages and profits, such damages as to the
court shall appear to be just, . . ."
We agree with petitioners that the "in lieu" clause is
not applicable here, as the profits have been proved and
the only question is as to their apportionment.
Petitioners stress the provision for recovery of "all" the
profits, but this is plainly qualified by the words "which
the infringer shall have made from such infringement."
This provision in purpose is cognate to that for the recovery of "such damages as the copyright proprietor may
have suffered due to the infringement." The purpose is
thus to provide just compensation for the wrong, not to
impose a penalty by giving to the copyright proprietor
profits which are not attributable to the infringement.
Prior to the Copyright Act of 1909, there had been no
statutory provision for the recovery of profits, but that
recovery had been allowed in equity both in copyright
and patent cases as appropriate equitable relief incident
to a decree for an injunction. Stevens v. Gladding, 17
How. 447, 455. That relief had been given in accordance
with the principles governing equity jurisdiction, not to
inflict punishment but to prevent an unjust enrichment
by allowing injured complainants to claim "that which,
ex aequo et bono, is theirs, and nothing beyond this."
Livingston v. Woodworth, 15 How. 546, 560. See Root v.
Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 194, 195. Statutory provision for the recovery of profits in patent cases was en1 Act

of March 4, 1909, § 25, 35 Stat. 1081, as amended by Act of

August 24, 1912, 37 Stat. 489.

17 U. S. C., § 25 (b).

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

acted in 1870.' The principle which was applied both
prior to this statute and later was thus stated in the
leading case of Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 146:
"The infringer is liable for actual, not for possible
gains. The profits, therefore, which he must account
for, are not those which he might reasonably have made,
but those which he did make, by the use of the plaintiff's
invention; or, in other words, the fruits of the advantage
which he derived from the use of that invention, over
what he would have had in using other means then open
to the public and adequate to enable him to obtain an
equally beneficial result. If there was no such advantage
in his use of the plaintiff's invention, there can be no
decree for profits, and the plaintiff's only remedy is by an
action at law for damages."
In passing the Copyrights Act, the apparent intention
of Congress was to assimilate the remedy with respect to
the recovery of profits to that already recognized in patent cases. Not only is there no suggestion that Congress
intended that the award of profits should be governed by
a different principle in copyright cases but the contrary is
clearly indicated by the committee reports on the bill.
As to § 25 (b) the House Committee said:
"Section 25 deals with the matter of civil remedies for
infringement of a copyright. . . . The provision that
the copyright proprietor may have such damages as well
as the profits which the infringer shall have made is substantially the same provision found in section 4921 of the
Revised Statutes relating to remedies for the infringement of patents. The courts have usually construed
that to mean that the owner of the patent might have
one or the other, whichever was the greater. As such a
provision was found both in the trade-mark and patent
'Act of July 8, 1870, § 55, 16 Stat. 198, 206; R. S. 4921.

House Report No. 2222, 60th Cong., 2d sess., p. 15.
Senate Report No. 1108, 60th Cong., 2d sess., p. 15.

See, also.

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP. 401
Opinion of the Court.

390

laws, the committee felt that it might be properly included in the copyright laws."
We shall presently consider the doctrine which has
been established upon equitable principles with respect
to the apportionment of profits in cases of patent infringement. We now observe that there is nothing in
the Copyright Act which precludes the application of a
similar doctrine based upon the same equitable principles in cases of copyright infringement.
Nor do the decisions of this Court preolude that course.
Petitioners invoke the cases of Callaghan v. Myers, 128
U. S. 617, and Belford v. Scribner, 144 U. S. 488. In the
Callaghan case, the copyright of a reporter of judicial
decisions was sustained with respect to the portions of
the books of which he was the author, although he had
no exclusive right in the judicial opinions. On an accounting for the profits made by an infringer, the Court
allowed the deduction from the selling price of the actual
and legitimate manufacturing cost: With reference to
the published matter to which the copyright did not extend, the Court found it impossible to separate the profits
on that from the profits on the other. And in view of
that impossibility, the defendant, being responsible for
the blending of the lawful with the unlawful, had to
abide the consequences, as in the case of one who has
wrongfully produced a confusion of goods. A similar
impossibility was encountered in Belford v. Scribner, a
case of a copyright of a book containing recipes for the
household. The infringing books were largely compilations of these recipes, "the matter and language" being
"the same as the complainant's in every substantial
sense," but so distributed through the defendants' books
that it was "almost impossible to separate the one from
the other." The Court ruled that when the copyrighted
portions are so intermingled with the rest of the piratical
work "that they cannot well be distinguished from it,"
215234 -40-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

the entire profits realized by the defendants will be given
to the plaintiff.
We agree with the court below that these cases do
not decide that no apportionment of profits can be had
where it is clear that all the profits are not due to the
use of the copyrighted material, and the evidence, is
sufficient to provide a fair basis of division so as to give
to the copyright proprietor all the profits that can be
deemed to have resulted from the use of what belonged
to him. Both the Copyright Act and our decisions leave
the matter to the appropriate exercise of the equity
jurisdiction upon an accounting to determine the profits
"which the infringer shall have made from such infringement."
Second. The analogy found in cases of patent infringement is persuasive. There are many cases in which the
plaintiff's patent covers only a part of a machine and
creates only a part of the profits. The patented invention may have been used in combination with additions or valuable improvements made by the infringer
and each may have contributed to the profits. In Elizabeth v. Pavement Co,., 97 U. S. 126, 142, cited in the
Callaghan and Belford cases, supra, it had been recognized that if a separation of distinct profit derived from
such additions or improvements was shown, an apportionment might be had. See Garretson v. Clark, 111
U. S. 120, 121. The subject was elaborately discussed
in the case of Westinghouse Co. v. Wagner Co., 225 U. S.
604, where it was distinctly ruled that "if plaintiff's
patent only created a part of the profits, he is only entitled to recover that part of the net gains." There,
the Court was concerned with the question of burden of
proof. It was said that the plaintiff suing for profits
was under the burden of showing that they had been
made. The defendant had submitted evidence tending
to show that it had added non-infringing and valuable

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP.
390

403

Opinion of the Court.

improvements which had contributed to the making of
profits; and the plaintiff in reply had insisted that these
additions had made no such contribution. But assuming,
as had been found, that the additions were non-infringing
and valuable improvements, and a prima facie case of
contribution to profits thus appearing, the burden of
apportionment would rest upon the plaintiff. But in
that relation it had still to be considered that the act
of the defendant had made it "not merely difficult but
impossible to carry the burden of apportionment" and
in such case, as the "inseparable profit must be given to
the patentee or infringer," the law placed the loss on the
wrongdoer.
The question of burden of proof does not arise in the
instant case, as here the defendants voluntarily assumed
that burden and the court below has held that it has been
sustained. What is apposite, however, is the ruling in
the Westinghouse case as tq apportionment and the sort
of evidence admissible upon that question. The Court
pointed to the difficulties of working out an account of
profits and thought that the problem was analogous to
that presented where it is necessary to separate interstate from intrastate earnings and expenses in order to
determine whether an intrastate rate is confiscatory. The
Court observed that "while recognizing the impossibility
of reaching a conclusion that is mathematically exact,"
there has been received, in addition to other relevant
evidence, "the testimony of experts as to the relative cost
of doing a local and through business." Chicago, M. &
St. P. Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 178. The
Court thought that "What is permissible in an effort to
separate costs may also be done in a patent case where
it is necessary to separate profits."
The principle as to apportionment of profits was clearly
stated in the case of Dowagiac Co. v. Minnesota Co., 235

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

U. S. 641,-a case which received great consideration.
The Court there said:
"We think the evidence, although showing that the invention was meritorious and materially contributed to
the value of the infringing drills as marketable machines,
made it clear that their value was not entirely attributable to the invention, but was due in a substantial degree
to the unpatented parts or features. The masters and
the courts below so found and we should hesitate to disturb their concurring conclusions upon this question of
fact, even had the evidence been less clear than it was.
"In so far as the profits from the infringing sales were
attributable to the patented improvements they belonged
to the plaintiff, and in so far as they were due to other
parts or features they belonged to the defendants. But
as the drills were sold in completed and operative form
the profits resulting from the several parts were necessarily commingled. It was essential therefore that they
be separated or apportioned between what was covered
by the patent and what was not covered by it, for, as
was said in Westinghouse Co. v. Wagner Co., supra (225
U. S. 615): 'In such case, if plaintiff's patent only created a part of the profits, he is only entitled to recover
that part of the net gains.' " Id., 646.
In the Dowagiac case, we again referred to the difficulty of making an exact apportionment and again observed that mathematical exactness was not possible.
What was required was only "reasonable approximation"
which usually may be attained "through the testimony
of experts and persons informed by observation and ex-"
perience." Testimony of this character was said to be
"generally helpful and at times indispensable in the solution of such problems." The result to be accomplished
"is a rational separation of the net profits so that neither
party may have what rightfully belongs to the other."
Id., p. 647.

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP. 405
390

Opinion of the Court.

We see no reason why these principles should not be
applied in copyright cases. Petitioners cite our decision
in the trade-mark case of Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. v.
Wolf Bros. Co., 240 U. S. 251, but the Court there,
recognizing the rulings in the Westinghouse and
Dowagiaccases, found on the facts that an apportionment
of profits was "inherently impossible." The burden cast
upon the defendant had not been sustained.
In 1922, some years after the Dowagiac decision, and
in harmony with it, Congress amended § 70 of the patent
law' so as to provide expressly that if "damages or
profits are not susceptible of calculation and determination with reasonable certainty, the court may, on evidence
tending 'to establish the same, in its discretion, receive
opinion or expert testimony, which is hereby declared to
be competent and. admissible, subject to the general rules
of evidence applicable to this character of testimony."
The amendment, so far as it relates to the reception of
expert testimony, recognized and cannot be deemed to
enlarge the rules already applied in courts of equity,
and the fact that the copyright law was not similarly
amended cannot be considered to detract from the jurisdiction of the court to receive similar evidence in copyright cases whenever it is found to be competent.
Petitioners stress the point that respondents have been
found guilty of deliberate plagiarism, but we perceive
no ground for saying that in awarding profits to the
copyright proprietor as a means of compensation, the
court may make an award of profits which have been
shown not to be due to the infringement. That would
be not to do equity but to inflict an unauthorized penalty.
To call the infringer a trustee ex maleficio merely indicates "a mode of approach and an imperfect analogy
by which the wrongdoer will be made to hand over the
'Act of February 18, 1922,

35 U. S. C. 70.

§ 8, 42 Stat. 392, amending R. S. 4921.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

proceeds of his wrong." Larson Co. v. Wrigley Co., 277
U. S. 97, 99, 100. He is in the position of one who has
confused his own gains with those which belong to another. Westinghouse Co. v. Wagner Co., supra, p. 618.
He "must yield the gains begotten of his wrong."
Duplate Corp. v. Triplex Co., 298 U. S. 448, 457. Where
there is a commingling of gains, he must abide the consequences, unless he can make a separation of the profits
so as to assure to the injured party all that justly belongs
to him. When such an apportionment has been fairly
made, the copyright proprietor receives all the profits
which have been gained through the use of the infringing
material and that is all that the statute authorizes and
o
equity sanctions.
Both courts below have held in this case that but a
small part of the profits were due to the infringement,
and, accepting that fact and the principle that an apportionment may be had if the evidence justifies it, we pass
to the consideration of the basis of the actual apportionment which has been allowed.
Third. The controlling fact in the determination of the
apportionment was that the profits had been derived, not
from the mere performance of a copyrighted play, but
from the exhibition of a motion picture which had its distinctive profit-making features, apart from the use of any
infringing material, by reason of the expert and creative
operations involved in its production and direction. In
that aspect the case has a certain resemblance to that of
a patent infringement, where the infringer has created
profits by the addition of non-infringing and valuable
improvements. And, in this instance, it plainly appeared that what respondents had contributed accounted for by far the larger part of their gains.
Respondents had stressed the fact that, although the
negotiations had not ripened into a purchase, the price
which had been set for the motion picture rights in "Dis-

SHELDON v. METRO-GOLDWYN CORP.
390

407

Opinion of the Court.

honored Lady" had been but $30,000. And respondents'
witnesses cited numerous instances where the value, according to sales, of motion picture rights had been put at
relatively small sums. But the court below rejected as a
criterion the price put upon the motion picture rights,
as a bargain had not been, concluded and the inferences
were too doubtful. The court also ruled that respondents could not count the effect of "their standing and
reputation in the industry." The court permitted respondents to be credited "only with such factors as they
bought and paid for; the actors, the scenery, the producers, the directors and the general overhead."
The testimony showed quite clearly that in the creation of profits from the exhibition of a motion picture,
the talent and popularity of the "motion picture stars"
generally constitutes the main drawing power of the
picture, and that this is especially true where the title
of the picture is not identified with any well-known play
or novel. Here, it appeared that the picture did not bear
the title of the copyrighted play and that it was not presented or advertised as having any connection whatever
with the play. It was also shown that the picture had
been "sold," that is, licensed to almost all the exhibitors
as identified simply with the name of a popular motion
picture actress before even the title "Letty Lynton" was
used. In addition to the drawing power of the "motion
picture stars," other factors in creating the profits were
found in the artistic conceptions and in the expert supervision and direction of the various processes which made
possible the composite result with its attractiveness to
the public.
Upon these various considerations, with elaboration of
detail, respondents' expert witnesses gave their views as
to the extent to which the use of the copyrighted material
had contributed to the profits in question. The underlying facts as to the factors in successful production and ex-

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

hibition of motion pictures were abundantly proved, but,
as the court below recognized, the ultimate estimates of
the expert witnesses were only the expression "of their
very decided opinions." These witnesses were in complete agreement that the portion of the profits attributable to the use of the copyrighted play in the circumstances here disclosed was very small. Their estimates
given in percentages of receipts ran from five to twelve
per cent; the estimate apparently most favored was ten
per cent as the limit. One finally expressed the view that
the play contributed nothing. There was no rebuttal.
But the court below was not willing to accept the experts'
testimony "at its face value." The court felt that it must
make an award "which by no possibility shall be too
small." Desiring to give petitioners the benefit of every
doubt, the court allowed for the contribution of the play
twenty per cent. of the net profits.
Petitioners are not in a position to complain that the
amount thus allowed by the court was greater than the
expert evidence warranted. Nor is there any basis for
attack, and we do not understand that any attack is made,
upon the qualifications of the experts. By virtue of an
extensive experience, they had an intimate knowledge of
all pertinent facts relating to the production and exhibition
of motion pictures. Nor can we say that the testimony
afforded no basis for a finding. What we said in the
Dowagiac case is equally true here,-that what is required
is not mathematical exactness but only a reasonable
approximation. That, after all, is a matter of judgment;
and the testimony of those who are informed by observation and experience may be not only helpful but, as we
have said, may be indispensable. Equity is concerned
with making a fair apportionment so that neither party
will have what justly belongs to the other. Confronted
with the manifest injustice of giving to petitioners all the
profits made by the motion picture, the court in making

HELVERING v. PRICE.
390

Counsel for Parties.

an apportionment was entitled to avail itself of the experience of those best qualified to form a judgment in the
particular field of inquiry and come to its conclusion aided
by their testimony. We see no greater difficulty in the
admission and use of expert testimony in such a case than
in the countless cases involving values of property rights
in which such testimony often forms the sole basis for
decision.
Petitioners also complain of deductions allowed in the
computation of the net profits. These contentions involve questions of fact which have been determined below upon the evidence and we find no ground for disturbing the court's conclusions.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the decision

of this case.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. PRICE.
CERTIORARI

No. 559.

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FOURTH

CIRCUIT.

Argued March 5, 6, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

A taxpayer, keeping accounts upon a cash basis, is not entitled to
deduct, as a loss sustained during the taxable year, Revenue Act,
1932, § 23 (e), a payment made in discharge of his liability to a
bank on a guaranty, but made by substituting his new note to the
bank for his earlier one, of the same amount. P. 412.
106 F. 2d 336, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 548, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a deficiency assessment.

Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.

