134

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

cause the Treasury felt bound so to interpret § 302 (c) by
reason of this court's decisions. That fact should make
application of the principle the more urgent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

joins in this opinion.

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION v.
POTTSVILLE BROADCASTING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 265.

Argued January 11, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. A lower court's interpretation of its own mandate does not bind

this Court. P. 141.
2. The opinion discusses the differences of origin and function between the judicial and the administrative processes, and the relation of the one to the other in matters of substance and procedure
where administrative rulings are subject to judicial review on
errors of law. P. 141.
3. Under the Federal Communications Act of 1934, the Communications Commission, in passing upon an application for a permit
to construct a broadcasting station, must judge by the standard
of public convenience, interest, and necessity. Pp. 137, 145.
4. The Act empowers the Commission to adopt rules of procedure
applicable in ascertaining whether the granting of an application
for a permit to erect a broadcasting station would be in the public
interest. P. 138.
5. Under this Act, upon review by the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia of a decision of the Commission denying an
application for such a permit, the court has authority to correct
errors of law and upon remand the Commission is bound to accept such correction. P. 145.
6. But where the Commission denied an application for such a permit and upon appeal to the Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia the ruling was reversed because of error of law
and the case sent back for further proceedings, the Commission
was free to reconsider the application together with other applications, filed subsequently, to determine which, on a comparative basis, would best serve the public interest; and the Court

FEDERAL COMM'N v. BROADCASTING CO. 135
134
of Appeals
mandamus
application
70 App. D. C.

Argument for Respondent.
was without authority by its mandate and by writ of
to forbid this and to require a rehearing of the first
on the record as originally made. P. 145.
157; 105 F. 2d 36, reversed.

CERTIORARi, 308 U. S. 535, to review an order which
granted a writ of mandamus requiring the above-named
Commission and its members (a) to set aside its order
denying an application of the present respondent and
assigning it for rehearing, with other applications for the
same broadcasting facilities; and (b) to hear and reconsider the respondent's application on the basis of the
record as originally made up when its application was
first decided adversely by the Commission and brought
before that court on appeal. See 98 F. 2d 288.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Messrs. Warner
W. Gardner, Robert M. Cooper, William J. Dempsey,
William C. Koplovitz, and Benedict P. Cottone were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Charles D. Drayton and Eliot C. Lovett for
respondent.
The procedural framework within which applications
for construction permits are considered is such that, if a
permit should be issued to the respondent, the facilities
could not later be taken away by the Commission and
given to another applicant without a hearing held for the
purpose of determining whether such action would be
proper. Richmond Development Corp. v. Commission,
35 F. 2d 883.
The applicant who, under the Commission's rules, becomes entitled to be heard first and who proceeds to meet
the statutory requirements is entitled to a grant without
waiting for later applicants to be heard and considered.
FederalRadio Comm'n v. Nelson Bros. Bond & Mortgage
Co., 289 U. S. 266, 285; Courier Post Publishing Co. v.
Commission, 104 F. 2d 213, 218; Heitmeyer v. Commis-

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S:

sion, 95 F. 2d 91, 100; Rio Grande Irrigation & C. Co. v.
Gildersleeve, 174 U. S. 603, 609; Weil v. Neary, 278 U. S.
161, 169; Colonial Broadcasters,Inc. v. Federal Communications Comm'n, 105 F. 2d 781, 783; Florida v. United
States, 282 U. S. 194, 215; Beaumont, S. L. & W. R. Co.
v. United States, 282 U. S. 74; Commission Rule 106.4.
The Commission may not oust the jurisdiction of the
court having statutory power of review by setting up,
subsequently to the decision of the court on questions of
law, a new procedure involving a new record, other issues
and other parties. Ford Motor Co. v. Labor Board, 305
U. S. 364, 368, 372; In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160
U. S. 247; Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Rellstab, 276 U. S.
1; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S.
781; Sibbald v. United States, 12 Pet. 488, 492; Barber
Asphalt Paving Co. v. Morris, 132 F. 945, 954; Rochester
Telephone Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S. 125, 136;
In re Potts, 166 U. S. 263, 267; American Telephone &
Tel. Co. v. United States, 299 U. S.. 232; Communications
Act, 1934.
The Court of. Appeals has the same power to issue
mandamus to protect its jurisdiction in this case as it
does in cases on appeal from the District Court.
The respondent exhausted its administrative remedy
before resorting to the court below, and it has no plain,
speedy and adequate remedy at law.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The court below issued a writ of mandamus against the
Federal Communications Commission, and, because important issues of administrative law are involved, we
brought the case here. 308 U. S. 535. We are called
upon to ascertain and enforce the spheres of authority
which Congress has given to the Commission and the
courts, respectively, through its scheme for the regula-

FEDERAL COMM'N v. BROADCASTING CO. 137
134

Opinion of the Court.

tion of radio broadcasting in the Communications Act of
1934, c. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, as amended by the Act of
May 20, 1937, c. 229, 50 Stat. 189; 47 U. S. C. § 151.
Adequate appreciation of the facts presently to be summarized requires that they be set in their legislative
framework. In its essentials the Communications Act of
1934 derives from the Federal Radio Act of 1927, c. 169,
44 Stat. 1162, as amended, 46 Stat. 844. By this Act
Congress, in order to protect the national interest involved in the new and far-reaching science of broadcasting, formulated a unified and comprehensive regulatory
system for the industry.1 The common factors in the
administration of the various statutes by which Congress
had supervised the different modes of communication led
to the creation, in the Act of 1934, of the Communications
Commission. But the objectives of the legislation have
remained substantially unaltered since 1927.
Congress moved under the spur of a widespread fear
that in the absence of governmental control the public
interest might be subordinated to monopolistic domination in the broadcasting field. To avoid this Congress
provided for a system of permits and licenses. Licenses
were not to be granted for longer than three years. Communications Act of 1934, Title iii, § 307 (d). No license
was to be "construed to create any right, beyond the
terms, conditions, and periods of the license." Ibid.,
§ 301. In granting or withholding permits for the construction of stations, and in granting, denying, modifying
or revoking licenses for the operation of stations, "public
1 For

the legislative history of the Act of 1927, see H. Rep. No. 464,

S. Rep. No. 772, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.; 67 Cong. Rec. 5473-5504,
5555-86; 5645-47; 12335-59; 12480, 12497-12508, 12614-18; 68
Cong. Rec. 2556-80, 2750-51, 2869-82, 3025-39, 3117-34, 3257-62,
3329-36, 3569-71, 4109-55. A summary of the operation of previous
regulatory laws may be found in Herring and Gross, Telecommunications, pp. 239-45.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

convenience, interest, or necessity" was the touchstone
for the exercise of the Commission's authority. While
this criterion is as concrete as the complicated factors for
judgment in such a field of delegated authority permit,
it serves as a supple instrument for the exercise of discretion by the expert body which Congress has charged to
carry out its legislative policy. Necessarily, therefore,
the subordinate questions of procedure in ascertaining
the public interest, when the Commission's licensing
authority is invoked-the scope of the inquiry, whether
applications should be heard contemporaneously or successively, whether parties should be allowed to intervene
in one another's proceedings, and similar questions-were
explicitly and by implication left to the Commission's
own devising, so long, of course, as it observes the basic requirements designed for the protection of private as well
as public interest. Ibid., Title I, § 4 (j). Underlying
the whole law is recognition of the rapidly fluctuating
factors characteristic of the evolution of broadcasting
and of the corresponding requirement that the administrative process possess sufficient flexibility to adjust itself
to these factors. Thus, it is highly significant that although investment in broadcasting stations may be large,
a license may not be issued for more than three years;
and in deciding whether to renew the license, just as in
deciding whether to issue it in the first place, the Commission must judge by the standard of "public convenience, interest, or necessity." The Communications Act
is not designed primarily as a new code for the adjustment of conflicting private rights through adjudication.
Rather it expresses a desire on the part of Congress to
maintain, through appropriate administrative control, a
grip on the dynamic aspects of radio transmission.
'Since the beginning of regulation under the Act of 1927 comparative considerations have governed the application of standards of

FEDERAL COMM'N v. BROADCASTING CO. 139
134

Opinion of the Court.

Against this background the facts of the present case
fall into proper perspective. In May, 1936, The Pottsville Broadcasting Company, respondent here, sought
from the Commission a permit under § 319 Ibid., Title
iii, for the construction of a broadcasting station at Pottsville, Pennsylvania. The Commission denied this application on two grounds: (1) that the respondent was
financially disqualified; and (2) that the applicant did
not sufficiently represent local interests in the community
which the proposed station was to serve. From this
denial of its application respondent appealed to the court
below. That tribunal withheld judgment on the second
ground of the Commission's decision, for it did not deem
this to have controlled the Commission's judgment. But,
finding the Commission's conclusion regarding the respondent's lack of financial qualification to have been
based on an erroneous understanding of Pennsylvania
law, the Court of Appeals reversed the decision and
ordered the "cause . . . remanded to the . . . Communications Commission for reconsideration in accordance with
the views expressed." Pottsville Broadcasting Co. v.
"public convenience, interest, or necessity" laid down by the law.
".. . the commission desires to point out that the test--'public interest, convenience, or necessity'-becomes a matter of a comparative and not an absolute standard when applied to broadcasting
stations. Since the number of channels is limited and the number
of persons desiring to broadcast is far greater than can be accommodated, the commission must determine from among the applicants
before it which of them will, if licensed, best serve the public. In a
measure, perhaps, all of them give more or less service. Those who
give the least, however, must be sacrificed for those who give the
most. The emphasis must be first and foremost on the interest, the
convenience, and the necessity of the listening public, and not on the
interest, convenience, or necessity of the individual broadcaster or the
advertiser." Second Annual Report, Federal Radio Commission,
1928, pp. 169-70.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Federal Communications Commission, 69 App. D. C. 7;
98 F. 2d 288.
Following this remand, respondent petitioned the
Commission to grant its original application. Instead of
doing so, the Commission set for argument respondent's
application along with two rival applications for the
same facilities. The latter applications had been filed
subsequently to that of respondent and hearings had been
held on them by the Commission in a consolidated proceeding, but they were still undisposed of when the respondent's case returned to the Commission. With three
applications for the same facilities thus before it, and
the facts regarding each having theretofore been explored
by appropriate procedure, the Commission directed that
all three be set down for argument before it to determine
which, "on a comparative basis" "in the judgment of the
Commission will best serve public interest." At this
stage of the proceedings, respondents sought and obtained
from the Court of Appeals the writ of mandamus now
under review. That writ commanded the Commission to
set aside its order designating respondent's application
"for hearing on a comparative basis" with the other two,
and "to hear and reconsider the application" of The
Pottsville Broadcasting Company "on the basis of the
record as originally made and in accordance with the
opinions" of the Court of Appeals in the original review
(69 App. D. C. 7; 98 F. 2d 288), and in the mandamus
proceedings. Pottsville BroadcastingCo. v. Federal Communications Commission, 70 App. D. C. 157; 105 F.
2d 36.
The Court of Appeals invoked against the Commission the familiar doctrine that a lower court is bound to
respect the mandate of an appellate tribunal and cannot
reconsider questions which the ,mandate has laid at rest.
See In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247, 255-56.
That proposition is indisputable, but it does not tell us

FEDERAL COMM'N v. BROADCASTING CO. 141
134

Opinion of the Court.

what issues were laid at rest. Compare Sprague v. Ti-conic Bank, 307 U. S. 161. Nor is a court's interpretation
of the scope of its own mandate necessarily conclusive.
To be sure the court that issues a mandate is normally
the best judge of its content, on the general theory that
the author of a document is ordinarily the authoritative
interpreter of its purposes. But it is not even true that
a lower court's interpretation of its mandate is controlling
here. Compare United States v. Morgan, 307 U. S. 183.
Therefore, we would not be foreclosed by the interpretation which the Court of Appeals gave to its mandate,
even if it had been directed to a lower court.
A much deeper issue, however, is here involved. This
was not a mandate from court to court but from a court
to an administrative agency. What is in issue is not the
relationship of federal courts inter se-a relationship defined largely by the courts themselves-but the due observance by courts of the distribution of authority made
by Congress as between its power to regulate commerce
and the reviewing power which it has conferred upon the
courts under Article III of the Constitution. A review
by a federal court of the action of a lower court is only
one phase of a single unified process. But to the extent
that a federal court is authorized to review an administrative act, there is superimposed upon the enforcement
of legislative policy through administrative control a different process from that out of which the administrative
action under review ensued. The technical rules derived
from the interrelationship of judicial tribunals forming a
Xierarchical system are taken out of their environment
when mechanically applied to determine the extent to
which Congressional power, exercised through a delegated
agency, can be controlled within the limited scope
of "judicial power" conferred by Congress under the
Constitution.

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Courts, like other organisms, represent an interplay
of form and function. The history of Anglo-American.
courts and the more or less narrowly defined range of
their staple business have determined the basic characteristics of trial procedure, the rules of evidence, and the
general principles of appellate review. Modern administrative tribunals are the outgrowth of conditions far
different from those.3 To a large degree they have been
a response to the felt need of governmental supervision
over economic enterprise-a supervision which could
effectively be exercised neither directly through self-executing legislation nor by the judicial process. That
this movement was natural and its extension inevitable,
was a quarter century ago the opinion of eminent spokesmen of the law.4 Perhaps the most striking characteristic of this movement has been the investiture of administrative agencies with power far exceeding and different
from the conventional judicial modes for adjusting conflicting claims-modes whereby interested litigants define
the scope of the inquiry and determine the data on which
the judicial judgment is ultimately based. Administrative agencies have power themselves to initiate inquiry,
'See Maitland, The Constitutional History of England, pp. 415-18;
Landis, The Administrative Process, passim.
' See, for instance, the address of Elihu Root as President of the
American Bar Association:
"There is one special field of law development which has manifestly
become inevitable. We are entering upon the creation of a body of
administrative law quite different in its machinery, its remedies, and
its necessary safeguards from the old methods of regulation by specific
statutes enforced by the courts. . . . There will be no withdrawal
from these experiments. We shall go on; we shall expand them,
whether we approve theoretically or not, because such agencies furnish protection to rights and obstacles to wrong doing which under
our new social and industrial conditions cannot be practically accomplished by the old and simple procedure of legislatures and courts as
in the last generation." 41 A. B. A. Rep. 355, 368-69.

FEDERAL COMM'N v. BROADCASTING CO. 143
134

Opinion of the Court.

or, when their authority is invoked, to control the range
of investigation in ascertaining what is to satisfy the
requirements of the public interest in relation to the
needs of vast regions and sometimes the whole nation in
the enjoyment of facilities for transportation, communication and other essential public services.' These differences in origin and function preclude wholesale transplantation of the rules of procedure, trial, and review
which have evolved from the history and experience of
courts. Thus, this Court has recognized that bodies
like the Interstate Commerce Commission, into whose
mould Congress has cast more recent administrative
agencies, "should not be too narrowly constrained by
technical rules as to the admissibility of proof," Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25, 44,
should be free to fashion their own rules of procedure
and to pursue methods of inquiry capable of permitting
them to discharge their multitudinous duties.' Compare
New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184. To be sure,
the laws under which these agencies operate prescribe
the fundamentals of fair play. They require that inter'See United States v. Lowden, 308 U. S. 225; Herring, Public
Administration and the Public Interest, passim.
'The Communications Commission's Rules of Practice, Rule 106.4,
provided that "the Commission will, so far as practicable, endeavor
to fix the same date . . .for hearing on all applications which ...
present conflicting claims . . .excepting, however, applications filed
after any such application has been designated for hearing." Respondent contends, and the court below seemed to believe that this rule
bound the Commission to give respondent a non-comparative consideration because its application had been set down for hearing
before the later and rival applications were filed. The Commission
interprets this rule simply as governing the order in which applications shall be heard, and not touching upon the order in which they
shall be acted upon or the manner in which they shall be considered.
That interpretation is binding upon the courts. A. T. & T. Co. v.
United States, 299 U. S. 232.

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

ested parties be afforded an opportunity for hearing and
that judgment must express a reasoned conclusion. But
to assimilate the relation of these administrative bodies
and the courts to the relationship between lower and upper courts is to disregard the origin and purposes of
the movement for administrative regulation and at the
same time to disregard the traditional scope, however farreaching, of the judicial process. Unless these vital
differentiations between the functions of judicial and administrative tribunals are observed, courts will stray outside their province and read the laws of Congress through
the distorting lenses of inapplicable legal doctrine.
Under the Radio Act of 1927 as originally passed, the
Court of Appeals was authorized in reviewing action of
the Radio Commission to "alter or revise the decision
appealed from and enter such judgment as to it may
seem just." § 16 of the Radio Act of 1927, 44 Stat. 1169.
Thereby the Court of Appeals was constituted "a superior
and revising agency in the same field" as that in which
the Radio Commission acted. Federal Radio Comm'n v.
General Electric Co., 281 U. S.464, 467. Since the power
thus given was administrative rather than judicial, the
appellate jurisdiction of this Court could not be invoked.
Federal Radio Comm'n v. General Electric Co., supra.
To lay the basis for review here, Congress amended § 16
so as to terminate the administrative oversight of the
Court of Appeals. c. 788, 46 Stat. 844. In "sharp contrast with the previous grant of authority" the court was
restricted to a purely judicial review. "Whether the
Commission applies the legislative standards validly set
up, whether it acts within the authority conferred or goes
beyond it, whether its proceedings satisfy the pertinent
demands of due process, whether, in short, there is compliance with the legal requirements which fix the province
of the Commission and govern its action, are appropriate

FEDERAL COMM'N v. BROADCASTING CO. 145
134

Opinion of the Court.

questions for judicial decision." Federal Radio Comm'n
v. Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266, 276.
On review the court may thus correct errors of law and
on remand the Commission is bound to act upon the
correction. Federal Power Comm'n v. Pacific Co., 307
U. S. 156. But an administrative determination in which
is imbedded a legal question open to judicial review does
not impliedly foreclose the administrative agency, after
its error has been corrected, from enforcing the legislative policy committed to its charge. Cf. Ford Motor Co.
v. Labor Board, 305 U. S. 364.
The Commission's responsibility at all times is to
measure applications by the standard of "public convenience, interest, or necessity." The Commission originally found respondent's application inconsistent with
the public interest because of an erroneous view regarding the law of Pennsylvania. The Court of Appeals laid
bare that error, and, in compelling obedience to its correction, exhausted the only power which Congress gave
it. At this point the Commission was again charged with
the duty of judging the application in the light of "public convenience, interest, or necessity." The fact that in
its first disposition the Commission had committed a
legal error did not create rights of priority in the respondent, as against the later applicants, which it would
not have otherwise possessed. Only Congress could confer such a priority. It has not done so. The Court of
Appeals cannot write the principle of priority into the
statute as an indirect result of its power to scrutinize
legal errors in the first of an allowable series of administrative actions. Such an implication from the curtailed
review allowed by the Communications Act is at war with
the basic policy underlying the statute. It would mean
that for practical purposes the contingencies of judicial
review and of litigation, rather than the public interest,
215234o-40-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

would be decisive factors in determining which of several
pending applications was to be granted.
It is, however, urged upon us that if all matters of administrative discretion remain open for determination on
remand after reversal, a succession of single determinations upon single legal issues is possible with resulting
delay and hardship to the applicant. It is always easy
to conjure up extreme and even oppressive possibilities
in the exertion of authority. But courts are not charged
with general guardianship against all potential mischief
in the complicated tasks of government. The present
case makes timely the reminder that "legislatures are ultimate guardians of the liberties and welfare of the people in quite as great a degree as the courts." Missouri,
K. & T. Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267, 270. Congress
which creates and sustains these agencies must be trusted
to correct whatever defects'experience may reveal. Interference by the courts is not conducive to the development of habits of responsibility in administrative agencies. Anglo-American courts as we now know them are
themselves in no small measure the product of a historic
process.
The judgment is reversed, with directions to dissolve
the writ of mandamus and to dismiss respondent's
petition.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

FLY ET AL. v. HEITMEYER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 316.

Argued January 11, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

Decided upon the authority of the case last preceding.
70 App. D. C. 162; 105 F. 2d 41, reversed.

