OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

309 U. S.

McGOLDRICK, COMPTROLLER OF THE CITY
OF NEW YORK, v. COMPAGNIE GENERALE
TRANSATLANTIQUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 44.

Argued January 2, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

1. Application of the New York City sales tax to sales of fuel oil,
contracted for in New York City and performed after shipment
from New Jersey by delivery to the purchaser's vessels in New
York Harbor, held not to have imposed an unconstitutional burden
on interstate commerce. McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal Mining Co., ante, p. 33. P. 431.
2. Upon review of a decision of a state court adjudging a statute of
the State invalid by an erroneous construction of the Federal Constitution, this Court will not entertain other constitutional objections against the statute and in support of the judgment, which
were not presented to or considered by the state court; but will
reverse the judgment, leaving the state courts free to decide any
federal question remaining undecided here which may be raised in
conformity with their own procedure. P. 433.
279 N. Y. 192; 280 id. 691; 18 N. E. 2d 28; 21 N. E. 2d 199,
reversed.
CERTIORARI, 307 U. S. 620, to review the affirmance of
judgments, 254 App. Div. 237, 4 N. Y. S. 2d 661, setting
aside as in violation of the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution a tax levied by the City of New York on
sales of fuel oil.

Mr. William C. Chanler, with whom Messrs. Sol
Charles Levine and Jerome R. Hellerstein were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harold S. Deming, with whom Mr. Donald Havens
was on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Cletus Keating, H. Maurice Fridlund, Richard

McGOLDRICK v. COMPAGNIE GENERALE.
430

431

Opinion of the Court.

Sullivan, and Earl Q. Kullman, representing certain taxpayers; and by Messrs. George deForest Lord and Wood-

son D. Scott, on behalf of the Cunard White Star, Ltd.,
challenging the validity of the tax.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companiom case to McGoldrick v. BerwindWhite Coal Mining Co., ante, p. 33, brought here to re-

view a judgment of the New York State Supreme Court
that the New York City tax laid upon sales of goods for
consumption, is an unconstitutional burden on interstate
commerce.
Upon certiorari to review a determination by the
Comptroller of the City of New York that respondent
was subject to a New York City tax upon sales to it of
fuel oil in 1934 and 1935, the Appellate Division of the
New York Supreme Court held that the taxing statute
as applied did so infringe. 254 App. Div. 237; 4 N. Y. S.
2d 661. The Court of Appeals affirmed, 279 N. Y. 192;
18 N. E. 2d 28, with opinion, on the single ground that
the tax was unconstitutional by reason of its effect on
interstate commerce, and by its amended remittitur the
court stated that the affirmance was on the sole ground
that the tax violated the commerce clause. 280 N. Y.
691; 21 N. E. 2d 199. We granted certiorari, 307 U. S.
620, upon a petition which assailed the determination of
the state court that the tax was a prohibited burden on
interstate commerce, the question being of public
importance.
The relevant provisions of the taxing act are set out
in our opinion in the Berwind-White Coal Mining Com-

pany case, and need not be repeated here. The Appellate
Division found facts not challenged here as follows:
Appellant, a corporation of the Republic of France, owns
vessels and operates them in the transportation of pas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

sengers and freight between the Port of New York and
France, and other foreign countries. It is authorized to
do business and maintains an office in New York City,
where in the course of its business it makes purchases of
fuel oil for consumption in the operation of its vessels,
from the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, which
also maintains an office and carries on business in the
City. That company enters into long-term contracts
with the respondent, negotiated and signed in the City,
for the sale to respondent of its requirements of fuel oil
as ordered, to be delivered alongside respondent's vessels
in New York Harbor. All the sales presently involved
were of oil stored by the Standard Oil Company in its
tanks in New Jersey, which as ordered was transported
by barge to respondent's vessels in New York City where
it was delivered.
The oil thus transported and delivered to respondent
was of two types. One, "bonded fuel oil," is refined oil
imported by the Standard Oil Company from foreign
countries and stored in bond in New Jersey without payment of import duties, pursuant to the revenue laws of
the United States which authorize release from the bond
upon delivery of the oil to a foreign steamship for export
or use as fuel by the vessel. The other type, known as
"drawback oil," is the product of crude oil imported from
foreign countries by the Standard Oil Company and refined at its New Jersey plant. An import duty is paid
upon the oil, but upon delivery of the refined oil to a
foreign steamship for export, or for use as fuel on the
vessel, the importer is entitled under the revenue laws to
a refund or drawback on the duty paid. 19 U. S. C.
§§ 1309, 1313, 46 Stat. 690, 693.
So far as the validity of the tax with respect to the
interstate commerce is concerned, our decision sustaining it in the Berwind-White Coal Mining Company case
is controlling, and the judgment must be reversed, unless

McGOLDRICK v. COMPAGNIE GENERALE.
430

433

Opinion of the Court.

the state of the record is such as to entitle respondent to
assail the tax upon constitutional grounds not urged or
decided in the state courts.
Respondent's petition to the New York Supreme Court
to review the determination of the Comptroller set out
that the tax "was assessed upon the purchase price paid
on transactions in interstate and foreign commerce" and
that the City was "without power to impose said tax on
said transactions by virtue of the provisions of the Constitution and the laws of the United States," specifying
the commerce clause and Article I, § 10, Clause 2, prohibiting "imposts or duties on imports or exports." No
mention was made of any applicable statute of the United
States.
Respondent's brief and argument here advance as
reasons in support of the judgment of the state court in
its favor that the bonded oil and drawback oil, at the
time of delivery to respondent, retained their character
as imports, and that they were then in process of being
exported, so that the tax imposed upon the delivery to
the purchaser is a prohibited impost or duty on imports
and exports.
Respondent concedes by its brief that the contentions
it now makes were not argued in the New York Court
of Appeals, and does not deny petitioner's assertion here
that respondent stated in its brief in the Appellate Division, "The court need give no attention to them," and
that by its brief in the Court of Appeals respondent
explicitly limited its presentation of the case to the interstate commerce point. Whether, under the practice of
the Court of Appeals, respondent was in the circumstances free- to ask decision of these questions there, we
are not advised. But in any event the record does not
disclose that they Were presented to the Court of Appeals,
the highest court of the state in which decision could
have been had whose decision we review, and it shows
215234*-40-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

that that court considered and passed upon only the
interstate commerce question.
By virtue of the petition for certiorari addressed to the
constitutional question which the state court decided,
this Court has jurisdiction of the cause. And respondent, in urging decision here of the constitutional questions
not pressed in the state court, relies on the familiar rule
of appellate court procedure in federal courts that, without a cross-petition or appeal, a respondent or appellee
may support the judgment in his favor upon grounds different from those upon which the court below rested its
decision. United States v. American Railway Express
Co., 265 U. S. 425, 435; Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531.
See Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290 U. S. 264, 269.
But it is also the settled practice of this Court, in the
exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, that it is only in
exceptional cases, and then only in cases coming from the
federal courts, that it considers questions urged by a petitioner or appellant not pressed or passed upon in the
courts below. Blair v. Oesterlein Co., 275 U. S. 220, 225;
Duignan v. United States, 274 U. S. 195, 200. In cases
coming here from state courts in which a state statute
is assailed as unconstitutional, there are reasons of peculiar force which should lead us to refrain from deciding
questions not presented or decided in the highest court
of the state whose judicial action we are called upon to
review. Apart from the reluctance with which every
court should proceed to set aside legislation as unconstitutional on grounds not properly presented, due regard
for the appropriate relationship of this Court to state
courts requires us to decline to consider and decide questions affecting the validity of state statutes not urged or
considered there. It is for these reasons that this Court,
where the constitutionality of a statute has been upheld
in the state court, consistently refuses to consider any
grounds of attack not raised or decided in that court.

McGOLDRICK v. COMPAGNIE GENERALE.
430

435

Opinion of the Court.

Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193; Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 626, 633; Whitney v.
California, 274 U. S. 357, 362, 363; New York ex rel.
Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308, 317.
Like considerations, we think, require us to refuse to
entertain such new grounds of attack as a support for a
state judgment of invalidity based on an erroneous construction of the Constitution. In the exercise of our appellate jurisdiction to review the action of state courts
we should hold ourselves free to set aside or revise their
determinations only so far as they are erroneous and
error is not to be predicated upon their failure to decide
questions not presented. Similarly their erroneous judgments of unconstitutionality should not be affirmed here
on constitutional grounds which suitors have failed to
urge before them, or which, in the course of proceedings
there, have been abandoned.
Upon the remand of this cause for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion, the state courts will
be free to decide any federal question remaining undecided here which, in conformity with their own procedure, may be raised for decision there, and the remand
will be without prejudice to the further presentation of
any such question to this Court.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concur
in the view that the questions relating to foreign commerce are not properly before us in this case, but think
that the judgment of the state court, holding that the
tax as here laid places an unconstitutional burden upon
interstate commerce, should be affirmed upon the grounds
stated in the dissenting opinion in McGoldrick v. Berwind-White CoalMining Co., ante, p. 59.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

took no part in the consideration or decision of this
case.

