OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

unfair labor practice. If the decree of enforcement is
disobeyed, the unfair labor practice is still not prevented.
The Board still remains as the sole authority to secure
that prevention. The appropriate procedure to that end
is to ask the court to punish the violation of its decree as
a contempt. As the court has no jurisdiction to enforce
the order at the suit of any private person or group of
persons, we think it is clear that the court cannot entertain a petition for violation of its decree of enforcement
save as the Board presents it. As the Conference Report upon the bill stated,12 in case the unfair labor practice is resumed, "there will be immediately available to
the Board an existing court decree to serve as a basis for
contempt proceedings."
The order of the Court of Appeals denying petitioner's
motion is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration and decision of this cause.

MINNESOTA EX REL. PEARSON v.
COURT OF RAMSEY COUNTY

'PROBATE
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 394. Argued February 6, 7, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.
Under a Minnesota statute a person may be subjected to a proceeding akin to lunacy proceedings with a view to his restraint if
proven to be of a "psychopathic personality." In a prohibition
proceeding the State Supreme Court construed the statute as
intended to include those persons who, by a habitual course of
misconduct in sexual matters, have evidenced an utter lack of
power to control their 'sexual impulses and who, as a result, are
likely to attack or otherwise inflict injury, loss, pain or other evil
"Conference Report, Cong. Rec., 74th Cong., 1st sess., pt. 9, p.
10,299.

MINNESOTA v. PROBATE COURT.
270

271

Opinion of the Court.

on the objects of their uncontrolled and uncontrollable desire;
and upheld the statute and quashed the alternative writ. Upon
appeal here, held:
1. This Court must accept the state court's construction. P. 273.
2. The word "include" as used in that court's opinion, will be
taken as defining the entire class of persons to whom the statute
applies and not as describing merely a portion of a larger class.
Pp. 273-274.
3. The statute, so construed, is not too vague and indefinite to
constitute valid legislation. P. 274.
4. The objection that it denies the equal protection of the laws
because of unreasonable classification, is untenable. P. 274.
The legislature is free to recognize degrees of harm and may
confine its restrictions to those classes of cases where the need is
deemed to be clearest.
5. In its procedural aspect, the statute is not invalid on its face.
P. 275.
6. Procedural objections that are based upon possible applications of the statute in the progress of the cause which have not
as yet been passed upon by the state court, are premature. P. 277.
205 Minn. 545; 287 N. W. 297, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment quashing an alternative writ

of prohibition.
Mr. Joseph F. Cowern for appellant.
Messrs. Chester S. Wilson and Kent C. van den Berg,
with whom Messrs. J. A. A. Burnquist and John A. Weeks
were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Appellant, Charles Edwin Pearson, petitioned the Supreme Court of Minnesota for a writ of prohibition commanding the Probate Court of Ramsey County, and its
Judge, to desist from proceeding against him as a
"psychopathic personality" under Chapter 369 of the
Laws of Minnesota of 1939. A proceeding under the
statute had been brought in the Probate Court for the

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

commitment of appellant and an order for his production and examination had been issued.
Appellant contended that the statute violated the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution. After hearing
upon an alternative writ, the Supreme Court overruled
these contentions and quashed the writ. 205 Minn. 545;
287 N. W. 297. The case comes here on appeal. Jud.
Code, § 237 (a); 28 U. S. C. 344 (a).
The statute, in § 1, defines the term "psychopathic
personality" as meaning
"the existence in any person of such conditions of emotional instability, or impulsiveness of behavior, or lack
of customary standards of good judgment, or failure to
appreciate the consequences of his acts, or a combination
of any such conditions, as to render such person irresponsible for his conduct with respect to sexual matters and thereby dangerous to other persons."
Section 2 provides that, except as otherwise therein or
thereafter provided, the laws relating to insane persons,
or those alleged to be insane, shall apply with like force
to persons having, or alleged to have, a psychopathic
personality. There is a proviso that before proceedings
are instituted the facts shall first be submitted to the
county attorney who if he is satisfied that good cause
exists shall prepare a petition to be executed by a person
having knowledge of the facts and shall file it with the
judge of the probate court of the county in which the
"patient" has his "settlement or is present." The probate judge shall set the matter down for hearing and for
examination of the "patient." The judge may exclude
the general public from attendance. The "patient" may
be represented by counsel and the court may appoint
counsel for him if he is financially unable to obtain such
assistance. The "patient" is entitled to compulsory
process for the attendance of witnesses in his behalf.

MINNESOTA v. PROBATE COURT.
270

Opinion of the Court.

The court must appoint two duly licensed doctors of
medicine to assist in the examination. The proceedings
are to be reduced to writing and made parts of the
court's records. From a finding of the existence of
psychopathic personality, the "patient" may appeal to
the district court.
After setting forth the general principles which governed its determination, the state court construed the
statute in these words:
"Applying these principles to the case before us, it
can reasonably be said that the language of § 1 of the
act is intended to include those persons who, by an habitual course of misconduct in sexual matters, have evidenced an utter lack of power to control their sexual
impulses and who, as a result, are likely to attack or
otherwise inflict injury, loss, pain or other evil on the
objects of their uncontrolled and uncontrollable desire.
It would not be reasonable to apply the provisions of the
statute to every person guilty of sexual misconduct nor
even to persons having strong sexual propensities. Such
a definition would not only make the act impracticable
of enforcement and, perhaps, unconstitutional in its application, but would also be an unwarranted departure
from the accepted meaning of the words defined."
This construction is binding upon us. Any contention
that the construction is contrary to the terms of the Act
is unavailing here. For the purpose of deciding the constitutional questions appellant raises we must take the
statute as though it read precisely as the highest court of
the State has interpreted it. Knights of Pythias v.
Meyer, 265 U. S. 30, 32; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Blodgett,
287 U. S. 509, 513; Hicklin v. Coney, 290 U. S. 169, 172;
Georgia Railway & Electric Co. v. Decatur, 295 U. S.
165, 170. Moreover, as it was the manifest purpose of
the court to determine definitely the meaning of the Act,
we accept the view presented by the Attorney General of
215234-40--18

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

the State at this bar, that the court used the word "include"
as defining the entire class of persons to whom the statute
applies and not as describing merely a portion of a larger
class. In advance of a decision by the state court applying the statute to persons outside that definition, we
should not adopt a construction of the provision which
might render it of doubtful validity. Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251, 277.
This construction of the statute destroys the contention that it is too vague and indefinite to constitute valid
legislation. There must be proof of a "habitual course of
misconduct in sexual matters" on the part of the persons against whom a proceeding under the statute is
directed, which has shown "an utter lack of power to
control their sexual impulses," and hence that they "are
likely to attack or otherwise inflict injury, loss, pain or
other evil on the objects of their uncontrolled and uncontrollable desire." These underlying conditions, calling for evidence of past conduct pointing to probable
consequences are as susceptible of proof as many of the
criteria constantly applied in prosecutions for crime.
Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, 377; Fox v. Washington, 236 U. S. 273, 277, 278; Omaechevarriav. Idaho,
246 U. S. 343, 348; United States v. Wurzbach, 280 U. S.
396, 399. Appellant's criticisms are drawn from his interpretation of the statute and find no warrant in the
statute as the state court has construed it.
Equally unavailing is the contention that the statute
denies appellant the equal protection of the laws. The
argument proceeds on the view that the statute has
selected a group which is a part of a larger class. The
question, however, is whether the legislature could constitutionally make a class of the group it did select. That
is, whether there is any rational basis for such a selection. We see no reason for doubt upon this point.
Whether the legislature could have gone farther is not

MINNESOTA v. PROBATE COURT.
270

Opinion of the Court.

the questiob. The class it did select is identified by the
state court in terms which clearly show that the persons
within that class constitute a dangerous element in the
community which the legislature in its discretion could
put under appropriate control. As we have often said,
the legislature is free to recognize degrees of harm, and
it may confine its restrictions to those classes of cases
where the need is deemed to be clearest. If the law
"presumably hits the evil where it is most felt, it is not
to be overthrown because there are other instances to
which it might have been applied." Lindsley v. Natural
Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78-79; Miller v. Wilson,
236 U. S. 373, 384; Semler v. Dental Examiners, 294 U. S.
608, 610, 611; West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S.
379, 400.
There remains the question whether, apart from definition and classification, the procedure authorized by the
statute adequately safeguards the fundamental rights
embraced in the conception of due process. In this relation it is important to note that appellant has challenged the proceeding in limine by seeking to prevent
the probate judge from entertaining it. To support such
a challenge, the statute in its procedural aspect must be
found to be invalid on its face and not by reason of some
particular application inconsistent with due process. In
that light the argument on this branch of the case also
fails.
As we have seen, the facts must first be submitted to
the county attorney who must be satisfied that good cause
exists. He then draws a petition which must be "executed
by a person having knowledge of the facts." The probate judge must set the matter for hearing and for examination of the person proceeded against. Provision is
made for his representation by counsel and for compelling
the production of witnesses in his behalf. The court must
appoint two licensed doctors of medicine to assist in the

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

examination. The argument that these doctcrs may not
be sufficiently expert in this type of cases merely invites
conjecture. There is no reason to doubt that qualified
medical men are usually available. Laws as to proceedings where persons are alleged to be insane are made
applicable. Appellant says that the patient cannot be
released on bail. The State contests this, insisting that
he may be so released pending hearing or on appeal,
pointing to Mason's Minnesota Statutes, 1938 Supplement, § 8992-178. Appellant contends that if the court
finds the patient to be within the statute, he must be
committed "for the rest of his life to an asylum for the
dangerously insane." Mason's Minn. Stat., 1938 Supp.,
§ 8992-176. The State also contests this conclusion,
maintaining that the commitment is without term and
subject to the right of the patient, or any one interested
in him, to petition the committing court for release at any
time. Mason's Minn. Stat., 1938 Supp., § 8992-143;
Laws of 1935, Chap. 72, § 143; as amended by Laws of
1939, Chap. 270, § 8. The statute gives a right of appeal
from the finding of the probate judge upon compliance
with certain specified provisions of the Minnesota laws.
Appellant contends that this excludes other provisions of
laws relating to appeals in insanity cases. Again, appellant's position is contested by the State upon the ground
that there is no express limitation or exclusion in the language of the statute and that other provisions governing
appellate procedure apply. These various procedural
questions, and others suggested by appellant, do not appear to have been passed upon by the state court.
We fully recognize the danger of a deprivation of due
process in proceedings dealing with persons charged with
insanity or, as here, with a psychopathic personality as
defined in the statute, and the special importance of
maintaining the basic interests of liberty in a class of

HELVERING v. KEHOE.
270

Statement of the Case.

cases where the law though "fair on its face and impartial in appearance" may be open to serious abuses in
administration and courts may be imposed upon if the substantial rights of the persons charged are not adequately
safeguarded at every stage of the proceedings. But we
have no occasion to consider such abuses here, for none
have occurred. The applicable statutes are not patently
defective in any vital respect and we should not assume,
in advance of a decision by the state court, that they
should be construed so as to deprive appellant of the due
process to which he is entitled under the Federal Constitution. Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.
531, 546; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165,
186, 187; Stephenson v. Binford, supra. On the contrary,
we must assume that the Minnesota courts will protect
appellant in every constitutional right he possesses. His
procedural objections are premature.
The judgment. is
Affirmed.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. KEHOE.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 419. Argued February 7, 8, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.
A conclusion of fact by the Board of Tax Appeals supported by
substantial evidence binds the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 279.
105 F. 2d 552, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

308 U. S. 543, to review a judgment revers-

ing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a
ruling of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.

