WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
560

Counsel for Parties.

The other contentions advanced by appellant have been
considered and found to be without substance.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
WISCONSIN, MINNESOTA, OHIO AND PENNSYLVANIA v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY DISTRICT OF CHICAGO.
MICHIGAN v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY

DISTRICT OF CHICAGO

ET AL.

NEW YORK v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY.

DISTRICT OF CHICAGO
Nos. 2, 3 and 4, Original.

ET AL.

Argued March 25, 26, 1940.-Decided
April 3, 1940.

Special Master appointed to make summary inquiry and speedy
report as to condition of the Illinois Waterway due to the introduction of untreated sewage, the effect upon the health of inhabitants of communities bordering the Waterway, and the
remedial or ameliorating measures available to the State of Illinois
without an increase in diversion of water from Lake Michigan.
P. 571.

Upon petition of the State of Illinois for a temporary
modification of the decree restricting diversion of water
of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence system or watershed
through the Chicago Drainage Canal, and the return of
the plaintiff States in response to a rule to show cause.
See also, order on p. 636, post.
Messrs. John E. Cassidy, Attorney General of Illinois,
and Montgomery S. Winning, for the State of Illinois,
defendant.
Mr. Herbert H. Naujoks for the State of Wisconsin
et al.; Mr. Timothy F. Cohan, Assistant Attorney Gen-

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

eral of New York, for the State of New York; and Mr.
Thomas J. Herbert, Attorney General of Ohio, for the
State of Ohio. With them on the brief for complainants
were Messrs. John E. Martin,Attorney General of Wisconsin, J. A. A. Burnquist, Attorney General of Minnesota, Claude T. Reno, Attorney General of Pennsylvania,
William S. Rial, Deputy Attorney General of Pennsylvania, Thomas Read, Attorney General of Michigan,
James W. Williams, Assistant Attorney General of Michigan, and John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General of New
York.
PER CURIAM.

By the decree of April 21, 1930 (281 U. S. 179, 696),
the State of Illinois and the Sanitary District of Chicago
were enjoined from diverting on and after December 31,
1938, any of the waters of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence
system or watershed through the Chicago Drainage Canal
or otherwise in excess of the annual average of 1500 cubic
feet per second in additidn to domestic pumpage. That
date was fixed as affording adequate time, upon a liberal
estimate, for the completion of the entire system designed
for sewage treatment, together with controlling works
to prevent reversals of the Chicago River in times of
storm.
The State of Illinois now seeks a temporary modification of the decree so as to permit an increase of the diversion to not more than 5000 cubic feet per second, in
addition to domestic pumpage, until December 31, 1942.
The State submits its petition, not on behalf of the City
of Chicago or the Sanitary District, but at the instance of
certain communities bordering on the Illinois Waterway,
including Lockport and Joliet. The grounds for the application are that the system for sewage treatment has
not yet been completed and will not be completed until
the end of the year 1942, and that, in consequence,

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
569

Opinion of the Court.

through the introduction of untreated sewage into the
stream, an "obnoxious, noisome, filthy, unsanitary and
dangerous condition to public health" exists along the
Sanitary District Canal and the Illinois Waterway.
The State of Illinois has failed to show that it has
provided all possible means at its command for the completion of the sewage treatment system as required by
the decree as specifically enlarged in 1933 (289 U. S. 395,
710). No adequate excuse has been presented for the
delay. Nor has the State submitted appropriate proof
that the conditions complained of constitute a menace
to the health of the inhabitants of the complaining communities or that the State is not able to provide suitable
measures to remedy Gr ameliorate the alleged conditions
without an increase in the diversion of water from Lake
Michigan in violation of the rights of the complainant
States as adjudged by this Court.
In order, however, that the Court may be satisfied as
to the actual condition of the Illinois Waterway by reason
of the introduction of untreated sewage, and as to the
actual effect, if any, of that condition upon the health
of the inhabitants of the complaining communities, and
also with respect to the feasibility of remedial or ameliorating measures available to the State of Illinois without an increase in the diversion of water from Lake
Michigan, the Court appoints a Special Master to make
a summary inquiry as to such condition, effect and
measures, and to report to this Court with all convenient
speed.

