436

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

ETHYL GASOLINE CORPORATION ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 536.

Argued March 1, 4, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

A corporation owning a patent for a poisonous fluid compound containing lead, which, when mixed with the gasoline used as fuel in
high compression internal combustion engines, adds greatly to their
efficiency, and owning also a patent claiming the fuel mixture and
another claiming a method of using it, manufactured the fluid and
sold it, without royalty, under a licensing system, to nearly all of
the leading manufacturers of gasoline in the country, one of which
owned half of the patentee's capital stock. These refiners mixed
the fluid with their gasoline and sold the resulting patented fluid in
great quantities to jobbers, who in turn sold it to retailers and
consumers. Under the license system: Refiners could not sell to
jobbers other than those licensed by the patentee, and must maintain a certain price differential; they must conform to public health
regulations in mixing the fuel and to conditions touching their use
of the patentee's corporate name and trademark or trade-names;
a jobber could sell, within a specified territory only, the lead-treated
gasoline sold him by a designated licensed refiner, generally the one
through whom he must apply for his license; he must make monthly
reports to the patentee, with a list of all places of sale; must
comply with health regulations as to the handling of the fuel; must
post and distribute notices concerning such handling as required by
the patentee; must permit physical examination of employees;
must abstain from adulteration or dilution of the fuel; and must
comply with requirements as to the use of the patentee's name or
trade-name. The patentee reserved the right to cancel jobbers'
licenses at will. This licensing system affected and controlled the
business of most of those engaged in manufacturing motor fuel in
the country, including nearly all the leading oil companies and most
of the jobbers. The greater part of the treated gasoline was sold
and transported in interstate commerce, much of it being distributed
through the licensed jobbers. The patentee made a practice of
ascertaining, through investigations by its agents, what jobbers
failed to comply with the market policies and posted prices of the
major oil companies, and by rejection of applications for licenses,

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Syllabus.

and in other ways, created a belief among refiners and jobbers that
under its licensing system, jobbers must yield such compliance.
The patentee thus built up a combination capable of use, and actually used, as a means of suppressing competition among jobbers and
controlling their prices. It was conceded that if this control of the
market had been acquired without aid of the patents, but wholly by
contracts with refiners and jobbers, it would involve violation of the
Sherman Act. Held:
(1) A patentee may not, by attaching a condition to his license,
enlarge his monopoly and thus acquire some other which the statute
and the patent together did not give. P. 455.
(2) By the authorized sales of the fuel by refiners to jobbers,
the patent monopoly over it is exhausted, and after the sale neither
the patentee nor the refiners may longer rely on the patents to
exercise any control over the price at which the fuel may be resold.
P. 457.
(3) Agreements for maintaining prices of articles moving in interstate commerce are, without more, unreasonable restraints within
the meaning of the Sherman Act because they eliminate competition; and agreements which create power of such price maintenance, exhibited by its actual exertion for that purpose, are in
themselves unlawful restraints within the meaning of the Sherman
Act. P. 458.
(4) The use by the corporation of the jobber licensing system in
building up a combination capable of use and actually used as a
means of controlling jobbers' prices and of controlling competition
among them, for which it could not lawfully contract, extends beyond its patent monopoly and is a violation of the Sherman Act.
P. 458.
(5) The patent monopoly of one invention may no more be enlarged for the exploitation of the monopoly of another than for the
exploitation of an unpatented article, or for the exploitation or promotion of a business not embraced within the patent. P. 459.
(6) Such interest as the patentee in this case has in protecting
the health of the public in connection with the distribution of the
fuel, and in preventing adulteration, deterioration and dilution of
the fuel in the hands of the jobbers, may be adequately protected
without resort to the jobber license device. P. 459.
(7) Since the unlawful control over the jobbers was established
and maintained by resort to the licensing device, the trial court
properly suppressed it, even though it had been, or might be, used
for some lawful purposes. P. 461.
27 F. Supp. 959, affirmed.

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellants.

309 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining

the appellant corporation and its officers from granting
licenses to jobbers, to sell and distribute its patented leadtreated motor fuel, and from enforcing provisions in licenses to oil refiners restricting their sale of the fuel to
licensed jobbers. The suit was by the Government, under
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.
Mr. Dean G. Acheson, with whom Mr. H. Thomas
Austern was on the brief, for appellants.
Appellant has the right under its product and method
patents to license jobbers handling its patented fuel. A
patentee may impose any conditions upon the sale of the
patented product by its licensees which are reasonably
necessary for its commercial development and for securing financial return from the patent. Rubber Co. v.
Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 799; Bement v. National Harrow
Co., 186 U. S. 70; Aspinwall Mfg. Co. v. Gill, 32 F. 697;
Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wall. 544; United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 490; General Talking
Pictures Corp. v. Western Electric Co., 304 U. S. 175;
305 U. S. 124; Straight Side Basket Corp. v. Webster
Basket Co., 4 F. Supp. 644; 10 F. Supp. 171; 82 F. 2d
245; Vulcan Mfg. Co. v. Maytag Co., 73 F. 2d 136.
Where, as in this case, the public interest and that of
the patentee combine to require the early, economical,
and widespread use of the invention through the licensing
of others to manufacture, any reasonable conditions imposed by the licensor to ensure the quality of the patented
product made by his licensees, to achieve its ready identification and acceptance by the public, and to prevent its
use in a dangerous manner, are proper. Reasonableness
is determined not by hindsight but by the facts confronting the patentee in the beginning. United States v.
General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476, 490; Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70.

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Argument for Appellants.

Measured by these criteria, the securing of compliance .
with the Surgeon General's health regulations was a sine
qua non to marketing the patented product. And protection of quality-through trademark identification and
prevention of adulteration, dilution, or deterioration of
the specified standard-was essential to securing wide
public acceptance. There appears to be no dispute that
appellant may lawfully restrict its refiner-licensees to selling only to jobbers who comply with precisely the same
conditions specified in the separate jobber licenses. The
only question is whether there is illegality in appellant,
through licensing jobbers, doing directly what it canadmittedly do indirectly.
Under its method patent appellant has an unquestionable right to license jobbers. It has a like right under its
product patent as well. Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27, and Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber
Co., 302 U. S. 458, distinguished. The conditions in the
jobber licenses are reasonable and related to securing return from these patents. Their use may be questioned
only as to whether they were necessary or whether they
were abused. By any realistic appraisal of the commercial situation they were clearly necessary. Cf., CocaCola Co. v. The Koke Co., 254 U. S. 143, 146; Coca-Cola
Co. v. Bennett, 238 F. 513; Coca-Cola Co. v. Butler &
Sons, 229 F. 224; Standard Oil Co. v. Federal Trade.
Comm'n, 273 F. 478, 482; aff'd 261 U. S. 463; Menendez
v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514, 520; Ralston Purina Co. v. Saniwax Paper Co., 26 F. 2d 941, 943, 944; Yale Electric
Corp. v. Robertson, 26 F. 2d 972, 974.
The record does not support the charge that through
threat of cancellation they were used to secure maintenance of refiners' prices.
Refusal in a few cases to license price-cutting jobbers
to handle the patented product are not shown to have
had any actual effect upon trade-they did not 1esult in

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellants.

309 U. S.

price maintenance, in lessening the number of jobbers, or
in any effect upon any jobber, community, or the public.
Justification of such refusal is found in the patentee's
interest in preventing the patented product being dealt
in by those who will impair its good will and who are
more likely to dilute, adulterate, or substitute. Even on
unpatented articles this justification has been judicially
sanctioned, and the public interest in permitting a manufacturer by express contract to protect himself against
price cutters has come to be widely recognized by federal
and state enactments. See, Old Dearborn Distributing
Co. v. Seagram-DistillersCorp., 299 U. S. 183. The interest of a non-manufacturing patentee is as great. The
circumstances surrounding the development of these patents, particularly in the light of the history of the petroleum industry, make clear the reasonableness of appellant's action. Since its justification in refusing to permit
its product to be handled by a few notorious price cutters
was reasonable, its occasional refusals of a license for this
reason were not an unlawful restraint of trade. Cement
Mfrs. Protective Assn. v. United States, 268 U. S. 588,
605; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163,
179; United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, 307;
Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers Assn. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 600, 604. Cf., Federal Trade Commission v. Raymond Co., 263 U. S. 565, 573; American Tobacco Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 9 F. 2d 570;
aff'd 274 U. S. 543; Win. Filene's Sons Co. v. Fashion
Originators' Guild, 90 F. 2d 556; Dr. Miles Medical Co.
v. Park, 220 U. S. 373, 412; Meyerson v. Hurlbut, 98 F.
2d 232; Boston Store v. American Graphophone Co., 246
U. S. 8, 27-28; Palmolive Co. v. Freedman,[1928] Ch. 264;.
Columbia Graphophone Co. v. Thomas, 41 Rep. Pat. Cas.
294; Dunhill, Ltd. v. Griffiths Bros., 51 Rep. Pat. Cas. 93.
Even if appellant's refusal to license a few jobbers
were unjustified, the decree entered was improper and an

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Argument for Appellants.

abuse of discretion. Sugar Institute v. United States, 297
U. S. 553, 602. Cf., United States v. Standard Oil Co.,
173 F. 177, 192. The lower court recognized appellant's
legitimate interest in insuring compliance with the Surgeon General's health regulations and in protecting the
trademark, good will, and reputation of the patented
product. The only practice it found unlawful was the
exclusion of price cutters.
Abolishing the whole system of jobber licenses was not
necessary to enjoin this practice since an adequate, selfpolicing decree could have readily been entered. The
scope of the decree thus exceeded the proof of any unlawful activity. See, Bliss Co. v. United States, 248 U. S.
37, 48; American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Council,
257 U. S. 184; Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S.
526. Cf., Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496. Moreover,
its drastic provisions will foreclose the protection of appellant's admittedly legitimate and essential interests.
Cf., Coca-Cola Co. v. Bennett, 238 F. 513. The district
court's conclusion that jobber licenses were not necessary
is based on assumptions unwarranted and contradicted
by the record. Dist'g International Business Machines
case, 298 U. S. 131, 140. There is no support for its
view that the mere reporting of violation to refiner licensees will be effective. Nor is there any evidence as to
what other methods are possible to prevent dilution,
adulteration, or substitution, or to insure compliance with
health regulations. The decree, therefore, drastically impairs appellant's present ability safely and efficiently to
market its patented product. More than this, it seriously
hampers the development of the patents and limits the
return from them during their remaining life. For it is
now clear that in the immediate future the importance
of quality controls and public health safeguards will be
far greater. As it stands, even upon the view taken by
the lower court that jobbers may not be refused licenses

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for the United States.

309 U. S.

because of a prior history of price cutting, the decree is
a cumbersome, drastic, and unjustifiable solution.
Assistant Attorney General Arnold, with whom Solicitor General Biddle and Messrs. Hugh B. Cox, James
C. Wilson, John Henry Lewin, and Samuel E. Darby, Jr.
were on the brief, for the United States.
Appellant, through the use of its licensing system, has
combined with 123 refiners producing all of the leadtreated gasoline sold in the United States to exclude from
the business of handling such gasoline all jobbers except
those licensed by appellant. It is conceded that appellant
has, in the exercise of its uncontrolled discretion, excluded
jobbers from the market and has fixed the terms and
conditions which must be met by those jobbers who have
been given permission to enter the market. The combination restrains trade because it empowers appellant to
decide who shall be allowed to enter the market and on
what terms and conditions the permission to do so shall
be granted. ParamountFamous Pictures Corp. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 30; United States v. First National Pictures, Inc., 282 U. S. 44; Interstate Circuit v. United
States, 306 U. S. 208, 226-229. See, also, Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, 408; United
States v. Brims, 272 U. S. 549; Eastern States Lumber
Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S. 600.
Appellant's licensing system also violates the antitrust
laws because its basic purpose has been to compel jobbers
to maintain resale prices of gasoline. Appellant refuses
licenses to jobbers who, in its judgment, are not likely
to maintain the marketing policies and price policies of
the major oil companies. Licensees believe they must
comply with such policies in order to retain their licenses.
Appellant, through its field representatives, investigates
the marketing practices of jobbers whom it licenses and
has exerted direct, substantial, and extraordinary influ-

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Argument for the United States.

ence over the price policies of the individual jobbers.
This kind of arrangement is clearly illegal under the antitrust laws. Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons., 220
U. S. 373; Eastern States Lumber Assn. v. United States,
234 U. S. 600; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Beech-Nut Co.,
257 U. S. 44; United States v. Trenton PotteriesCo., 273
U. S. 392; Interstate Circuit v. United States, 306 U. S.
208.
Appellant's licensing system must be justified on the
basis of its ownership of patents. However, an analysis
of appellant's business demonstrates that appellant is not
entitled to assume complete control over the marketing
of lead-treated gasoline through the use of its patents.
Appellant's business is the manufacturing of the patented
fluid which is used in the production of such motor fuel.
When it sells the fluid to refiners it receives all the
pecuniary reward which it seeks for the exploitation of
its patent rights. Having thus chosen to obtain the reward for its invention through the manufacture and sale
of the fluid, appellant has no right to control the marketing by its customers of motor fuel containing the fluid.
Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Hobbie v. Jennison, 149
U. S. 355. See also Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322, 327328; Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S.
502, 510-511; Keeler v. Standard Folding Bed Co., 157
U. S. 659; Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1; Straus v.
Victor Talking Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490; Boston Store
v. American Graphophone Co., 246 U. S. 8. Cf., BobbsMerrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339; Dr. Miles Medical
Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, 404-405.
The appellant is not attempting to obtain any financial
return from the mixing and use patents. It is attempting
to use them solely for the purpose of dominating the
marketing of lead-treated gasoline in the United States.
This is an improper use of the patent privilege. The rule
is well established that a patentee can not extend his

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for the United States.

309 U. S.

control over subject matter which lies outside of the patent privilege by merely including such subject matter in
his patent claims. Motion Picture Co. v. Universal Film
Co., 234 U. S. 502; Carbice Corp. v. American Patents
Corp., 283 U. S. 27; Leitch Mfg. Co. v. Barber Co., 302
U. S. 458; American Lecithin Co. v. Warfield Co., 105 F.
2d 207; Philad Co. v. Lechler Laboratories, 107 F. 2d
747.
A patentee is entitled only to impose such restrictions
in connection with the sale of a patented article as are
normally and reasonably adapted to secure pecuniary
reward for the patentee's monopoly. United States v.
General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476. Restrictions imposed
under this rule must be tested by an objective standard
of reasonableness. General Electric case, supra, 489, 490;
Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322, 327-328; Motion Picture
Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S. 502, 510-511.
Protection of the public health is not the real reason
for the licensing scheme. It is not to be assumed that
refiners and jobbers are not as zealous to protect the
public health as is appellant or that they would behave
in a reckless or improper manner in the absence of the
licensing scheme.
The licensing system is not necessary to prevent the
dilution, adulteration, and deterioration of motor fuel
containing the fluid. Ethyl gasoline constitutes only
about 6 per cent of all lead-treated motor fuel. Furthermore, the product which appellant fears may be adulterated is in reality the product of the refiners. The latter
have a direct interest in maintaining the quality of this
product and appellant's interest is too remote to justify
its licensing system. See, Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park
& Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, 407.
The privileges flowing from the ownership of the trademark can be no greater than those covered by appellant's
patents, and cannot justify the licensing system. Coca-

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Opinion of the Court..

Cola Co. v. Bennett, 238 F. 513; Coca-Cola Co. v. Butler
& Sons, 229 F. 224; and Coca-Cola Co. v. Koke Co., 254
U. S. 143, distinguished. See Manufacturing Co.. v.
Trainer, 101 U. S. 51; Lawrence Mfg. Co. v.. Tennessee
Mfg. Co., 138 U. S. 537; Columbia Mill Co. v. Alcorn,
150 U. S. 460; Bourjois & Co. v. Katzel, 260 U. S. 689;
Dover Stamping Co. v. Fellows, 40 N. E. 105.
That it is necessary for appellant to maintain resale
prices of motor fuel, cannot justify the licensing system,
for that is the very thing which makes its scheme illegal.
United States v. General Electric Corp., 272 U. S. 476, is
inapplicable because appellant does not manufacture the
product upon which it seeks to fix the price.
In striking down the entire jobber licensing scheme the
court below granted proper and effective relief. No other
decree would suffice to assure jobbers that they were
completely free of domination and free to engage in the
competition which is protected by the antitrust laws. A
decree which permitted appellant to retain the licensing
system in any form would invite abuses through secrecy
and concealment. The government should not be required continually to police a licensing plan which presents inherent opportunities for misuse. Local 167 v.
United States, 291 U. S. 293, 299; Gompers v. Bucks Stove
& Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 438-439; Purity Extract Co.
v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Government brought this suit in the District Court
for Southern New York, to restrain appellant, Ethyl
Gasoline Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and the
other appellants, who are its officers, from granting licenses, under patents controlled by it, to jobbers to sell and
distribute lead-treated motor fuel, and from enforcing

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

provisions in licenses to oil refiners which restrict their
sale of the motor fuel to the licensed jobbers, as violations
of the Sherman Anti-trust Act. 26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C.
§ 1, as amended August 17, 1937, 50 Stat. 693. The trial
court granted the relief sought and from its decision in
favor of the Government the case comes here on direct
appeal under the provisions of § 2 of the Expediting Act
of February 11, 1903, as amended 36 Stat. 1167, 15
U. S. C. § 29; § 238 of the Judicial Code, as amended 43
Stat. 938, 28 U. S. C. § 345.
The case was tried on an agreed statement of facts
which was incorporated in the findings of the trial court
and, except as noted, there is no dispute as to the facts.
The appellant corporation is engaged in the manufacture
and sale of a patented fluid compound containing tetraethyl lead, a poisonous substance, which, when added to
gasoline used as a motor fuel, increases the efficiency of
high pressure combustion engines in which the fuel is consumed. The Ethyl Corporation owns two patents covering the composition of the fluid, No. 1,592,954 of July 20,
1926, and No. 1,668,022 of May 1, 1928. It has a third
patent, No. 1,573,846 of February 23, 1926, claiming a
motor fuel produced by mixing gasoline with the patent
fluid compound, which is claimed also by the two patents
first mentioned. It also has a patent, No. 1,787,419, of
December 30, 1930, claiming a method of using fuel containing the patented fluid in combustion motors. The
corporation manufactures and sells the patented fluid to
oil refiners, solely for use in the production of the improved type of motor fuel. It issues licenses under its
patents to refiners and to jobbers of motor fuel on terms
and conditions presently to be noted, but it does not
charge or receive any royalty for its licenses. It derives
its profit solely from the sale of the patented ethyl fluid
to its refiner licensees.

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Opinion of the Court.

The Licensing Agreements.
Appellant grants licenses under its patents to most of
the large oil refining companies in the United States,
to manufacture, sell and distribute motor fuel containing
the patented fluid. The licenses provide that appellant
will sell to the licensees their requirements of the
patented fluid. They prohibit the licensees from selling
the manufactured product to any except to other licensed
refiners, to jobbers licensed by appellant and to retail
dealers and consumers. They require the licensed refiners to mix the patented fluid with the gasoline at their
refineries with equipment approved by appellant and in
conformity to regulations promulgated by the Surgeon
General of the United States and any other governmental
body having jurisdiction. The refiners agree to impose
obligations on all purchasers to conform to such health
regulations and to require them to impose like obligations
on those to whom they sell. The refiners agree, upon
notice by appellant, to discontinue sales to other refiners
or jobbers whose licenses appellant has cancelled. The
licenses also provide for the maximum amount of the
fluid to be used in the gasoline; and that, within that
limit, the licensees' regular or "best non-premium" gasoline shall have a maximum octane rating of 70 ' and shall
be sold as the next highest priced motor fuel of the
'The utility of lead-treated gasoline for use in high compression engines is expressed in terms of octane numbers, an arbitrary scale of

measurement indicating the relative degree of compression to which
the fuel may be subjected without causing "knock" in the engine,
which is prevented or reduced by the use of the fuel. The octane
rating of motor fuel increases with the amount of the patented fluid
added to the gasoline which, in any case, is small. Appellant's licenses
to refiners authorize the manufacture of gasoline of high octane rating,
68 or more, of two classes, "regular," in which there is one part of
tetraethyl lead to 4200 parts of gasoline, and "ethyl gasoline," in
which there is one part of tetraethyl lead to 1700 parts of gasoline.

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

licensee below the licensee's ethyl gasoline, which shall
have a minimum octane rating of 76 and shall be sold
at a certain fixed price differential above the average net
sales price of the licensees' best non-premium grade of
commercial gasoline. The licenses further provide the
conditions under which the name of the Ethyl Corporation and its trademark or trade names may be used in
connection with the advertising and sale of the patented
motor fuel.2
Jobbers are generally required by appellant to apply
for licenses through the refiners from whom they expect
to purchase the motor fuel. The licenses to jobbers purport to grant the right to, sell and deliver to retail dealers
and consumers within a specified territory regular and
ethyl gasoline, manufactured and sold by a designated
licensed refiner.8 The licensed jobbers are required to
furnish appellant monthly with a list of all places at
which the motor fuel is sold under the licenses. They
agree to comply with health regulations relating to the
handling of the motor fuel promulgated by the Surgeon
General or other governmental agency; to post and distribute any notices concerning the handling of such fuel
as required by the appellant; to permit physical examination of employees, and to require customers purchasing
for resale to assume similar obligations. Adulteration
and dilution of motor fuel distributed under the licenses
is prohibited, and requirements similar to those contained
in refiner licenses are imposed with respect to the use of
2

The name of the Ethyl Corporation and its trademark or trade

names "Ethyl" and "Q" may not be used in connection with the advertising and sale of regular gasoline. All the licensees, with the exception of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, which markets
the product under the name "Esso," are required to used the word
"Ethyl" in connection with the sale and distribution of the Ethyl
gasoline.
'The only obligation which the licensor assumes toward the jobbers
is to defend them against patent and trademark infringement suits,

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Opinion of the Court.

appellant's corporate name and trade names in connec-

tion with the advertising and sale of the motor fuel. Appellant is given the right to cancel the jobbers' licenses
at any time for failure to comply with their terms, and
either party may cancel, with or without cause, on thirty
days' written notice.
Effect of the Licensing Agreements on the Oil Industry.

The licensing system established by appellant affects
and controls the business of the major part of those engaged in manufacturing and distributing motor fuel oil
in the United States. Appellant issues licenses to 123
refiners, including every leading oil company, except one,
the Sun Oil Company, which does not generally do business through jobbers. They refine 88% of all gasoline
sold in the United States, and the gasoline processed by
them under the license agreements is 70% of all the gasoline thus sold, and 85% of all gasoline processed to
obtain a high octane rating.
Any jobber in the United States desiring to sell leadtreated gasoline must secure a license from the Ethyl
Corporation, revocable at its will, before it can procure
the gasoline from licensed refiners. Of the 12,000 jobbers
doing business in the United States approximately 11,000
are licensed by appellant. The jobber must procure a
new license on changing his source of supply. The
greater part of all gasoline treated with the patented fluid
is sold and transported in interstate commerce. It is sold
in part through wholesale and retail outlets owned and
controlled by the refiners and in part to individual retailers and consumers. A large volume and a substantial
part of the whole is distributed through licensed jobbers
to whom it is delivered at their bulk storage plants
through the channels of interstate commerce.
By their terms, the licensing agreements serve to exclude all unlicensed jobbers from the market, and in the
215234 -40-29

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

particulars already mentioned, and in others presently
to be discussed, they control the conduct of the business
of licensed jobbers in the distribution of the patented
motor fuel and enable appellant at will to exclude others
from the business. The refiners' licenses also in terms
place restraints on the sales price of refiners by establishing the prescribed differential between regular and ethyl
gasoline. From this and from the other stipulated facts
the Government argues that the control acquired through
the licensing agreements over the refiners and jobbers
has been used by appellants to control the business practices of the jobbers and particularly to maintain resale
prices of the patented motor fuel in unlawful restraint
of interstate commerce. In support of this contention
it relies upon the long established practice of appellant to
refuse to grant licenses to jobbers who cut prices or refuse
to conform to the marketing policies and posted prices
of the major refineries or the market leaders among them.
Decision Below and Contentions of Appellants.
The trial court concluded that in view of the indefinite
language of the stipulation it was perhaps a permissible,
though not a necessary, conclusion that an agreement or
understanding for the maintenance of prices existed between the appellant and the jobber licensees. But it considered it unnecessary to decide this issue, since it found
that the appellant's licensing practices affecting the jobbers, in, conjunction with the agreements and co6peration
of the licensed refiners, had been used by appellant as the
means of excluding from the market the unlicensed jobbers who do not conform to the market policies and
posted gasoline prices adopted by the major oil companies
or the market leaders among them, and that appellant
uses the control thus established to coerce adherence to
those policies and prices generally by the licensed jobbers,
and that this restriction upon the industry effected

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Opinion of the Court.

through the license contracts with refiners and jobbers
was not within appellant's patent monopoly, and operated unreasonably to restrain interstate commerce in the
processed gasoline.
It concluded that the licensing system was not, as
appellant argues, necessary for the protection of such
legitimate interests as the patentee had in the protection
of the quality of the treated gasoline sold upon the market, and its use by the jobbers with safety to the public
health. Appellants were accordingly enjoined from enforcing or attempting to enforce, or including in any
subsequent agreement, provisions that refiners shall sell
lead-treated gasoline only to licensed jobbers, and from
requiring or attempting to require jobbers to secure
licenses, and from enforcing or attempting to enforce the
provisions of any outstanding jobber licenses. The decree also declared the jobber licenses illegal and required
appellant to notify the jobbers that the licenses have
been cancelled.
Appellant, insisting that it does not use the jobbers'
licensing system to maintain prices, makes two principal
attacks on the decree. It urges that the licensing of the
refiners and jobbers, the restraints upon the sale of the
patented fuel by the refiners, and the restrictions placed
upon the jobbers, are all reasonably necessary for the
commercial development of appellant's patents and for
insuring a financial return from them, and are therefore
within its patent monopoly. In any case, it is said that
the conditions attached to the refiners' and jobbers'
licenses are appropriate and reasonably adapted to the
maintenance of the quality of the product and for the
protection of the public in its use of a product containing
a dangerous poison, and both are essential to the maintenance of the market for the patented fuel, on which
the market for appellant's patented fluid depends. And
since the jobbers' licenses are a necessary or appropriate

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

means of protecting the interests of appellant and the
public in the quality and safe use of the patented product,
it is argued that the decree abolishing the whole system
of jobbers' licenses went further than was necessary or
proper to prevent such restraint as there may have been
exerted on the jobbers with respect to prices and
marketing policies.
Relation of the
Maintenance.

Licensing

Agreements

to

Price

For the moment we may lay to one side the particular
restrictions enumerated in the contracts of the refiners
with jobbers, and turn to the relation of appellant's
licensing policy to the maintenance of price policies by
the jobbers. While the trial court found no contract
or agreement which purports to prescribe resale prices
or to exact any price policy of the jobbers, the stipulation
of facts shows that appellant, through its patents, its
contracts, and its licensing policy, has acquired the power
to exclude at will from participation in the nationwide
market for lead-treated motor fuel all of the 12,000 motor
fuel jobbers of the country, by refusing to license any of
the 1,000 unlicensed jobbers, or by cancelling, as it may at
will, the licenses of any of the 11,000 licensed jobbers.
This we assume, for present purposes, it could lawfully do
by virtue of the power conferred by its patent to exclude
any or all others from selling the patented product. But
it does not follow that it can lawfully exercise that power
in such manner as to control the patented commodity in
the hands of the licensed jobbers who had purchased it,
or their actions with respect to it in ways not within the
limits of the patent monopoly; and conspicuous among
such controls which the Sherman law prohibits and the
patent law does not sanction is the regulation of prices
and the suppression of competition among the purchasers
of the patented articles. That appellant, by the plan

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

453

Opinion of the Court.

and scope of its licensing policy, has acquired vast
potential power to accomplish that end cannot be
doubted. And we think the record supports the finding
of the trial court that appellant has exercised that power
continuously for a considerable period as a means of
control over the price policies of the licensed jobbers.
From the stipulation of facts, it appears that since
1929 appellant has pursued the practice of investigating, through field agents, the "business ethics" of jobbers
applying for licenses, and of rejecting such applications
upon the adverse report of the agent. Appellant admits
that the phrase "business ethics" is used to denote compliance with "marketing policies and prevailing prices
of the petroleum industry," which are the "marketing
policies and posted prices of the major oil companies or
the market leaders among them." Among these is the
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey which owns onehalf of the capital stock of the appellant.' While not all
applicants who have failed to maintain prices and marketing policies have been rejected, the record leaves no
doubt that appellant has made use of its dominant position in the trade to exercise control over prices and marketing policies of jobbers in a sufficient number of cases
and with sufficient continuity to make its attitude toward
price cutting a pervasive influence in the jobbing trade.
In many instances, although not in all, an adverse report by the investigator as to the applicant's business
ethics has been the sole ground for rejecting his application, and appellant admits that the greater number of
applications for licenses which have been denied were
rejected because of such an adverse report. In the cases
in which licenses have been refused, something less than
one-half of the rejected applicants were later granted
licenses on their assurance that their marketing practices
'The remainder is owned by General Motors Corporation and E. I.
du Pont de Nemours Company.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

would be changed. The total number of rejections for
failure to comply with that standard does not appear, for
appellant has failed to keep any record of the ground of
rejection of applications for licenses, admittedly because
it is reluctant to preserve in its records "the extent to
which maintenance of prices and marketing policies by
jobbers entered into the granting of licenses."
Jobbers' licenses do not appear to have been cancelled
because of failures to maintain policies or prices of the
major oil companies whenever they have occurred, but it
is an established practice of appellant to investigate the
business ethics of licensed jobbers in ordei' to ascertain
whether they maintain the marketing prices, policies and
practices prevailing or ostensibly prevailing in the industry. Representatives of appellant have from time to
time, but not in every case, reported a jobber to his supplier or refiner for not maintaining the marketing policies
of the latter, and in some cases they have united in persuading the jobber to mend his ways. Appellant has
generally required each licensed jobber to purchase all
his treated fuel from a single refiner and in some instances has refused a license to jobbers who wished to
change their source of supply from one licensed refiner to
another.
These long-continued practices have had the effect upon
the industry naturally to be expected. Large numbers
of refiners and the majority of jobbers believe that the
jobbers must maintain the required business ethics in
order to obtain licenses, and a number of licensed jobbers
believe that they are required by appellant's licensing
practices to maintain prices and abide by the marketing
practices of the major oil companies. Appellant, in its
printed instructions to field representatives as to the
manner of conducting investigations of licensed jobbers,
after pointing out that one of the reasons for the investigation of the jobber before the issuance of the license

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Opinion of the Court.

is to insure that he "will not resort to unethical methods
in competing with our other licensed jobbers and refiners," and after describing the methods of conducting
the investigation,' sums up the result as follows: "We
have, through these supplemental investigations, been
able to correct the ethyl picture to a considerable extent,
and have succeeded in eliminating from our jobber lists
some of our former accounts who were not a credit to us
as licensees of the Ethyl Gasoline Corporation."
Scope of the Patent Monopoly.
It is not denied, and could not well be, that if appellant's comprehensive control of the market in the distribution of the lead-treated gasoline, as disclosed by the
record, had been acquired without aid of the patents, but
wholly by the contracts with refiners and jobbers, such
control would involve a violation of the Sherman Act.
Paramount Famous Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S. 30,
43; United States v. First National Pictures, 282 U. S.
'The investigator is reminded in the Field Representative Manual
that the question as to "business ethics" "can be answered only if the
field representative has obtained sufficient information to be sure of
his opinion." "Ethics of the jobber is based on the territory in which
he is marketing and the conditions surrounding the sale of gasoline by
other ethyl gasoline distributors. Care should be taken, if possible,
to find out the instigator of any practices which tend to unfair competition. Business ethics is a relative quality and no hard and fast rule
can be given to govern all cases. Information given to field representatives and picked up in the various contacts should be weighed carefully before a final decision is reached. One of the three words,
'good,' 'questionable,' or 'unethical' is to be used in answering this
question."
In January, 1935 the question as to "business ethics" was eliminated
from the form report of field agents. But business ethics has since
continued to be one of the principal subjects of investigation and, as
before, the result of the field agent's investigation has been included
in his report and his recommendations have been generally accepted
and acted upon by his superiors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U.S.

44. Cf. Frey & Son v. Cudahy Packing Co., 256 U. S.
208; Federal Trade Commission v. Beech-Nut Packing
Co., 257 U. S. 441. And so we turn to the consideration
of the patents and the patent law to ascertain whether
the monopoly-which they have given appellant affords a
lawful basis for the control over the marketing of motor
fuel which the record discloses. Cf. United States v.
General Electric Co., 272 U. S. 476. In considering that
question we assume the validity of the patents, which is
not questioned here.
The patent law confers on the patentee a limited monopoly, the right or power to exclude all others from manufacturing, using, or selling his invention. R. S. § 4884, 35
U. S. C. § 40. The extent of that right is limited by the
definition of his invention, as its boundaries are marked
by the specifications and claims of the patent. Motion
Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Co., 243 U. S. 502,
510. He may grant licenses to make, use or vend, restricted in point of space or time, or with any other restriction upon the exercise of the granted privilege, save
only that by attaching a condition to his license he may
not enlarge his monopoly and thus acquire some other
which the statute and the patent together did not give.
He may not, by virtue of his patent, condition his
license so as to tie to the use of the patented device or
process the use of other devices, processes or materials
which lie outside of the monopoly of the patent licensed;
Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co.,
supra; Carbice Corporation v. American Patents Corp.,
283 U. S. 27, 31; Leitch Manufacturing Co. v. BarberCo.,
302 U. S. 458; cf. United Shoe Machinery Co. v. United
States, 258 U. S. 451, 462; International Business Machines Corp. v. United States, 298 U. S. 131, 140; or condition the license so as to control conduct by the licensee
not embraced in the patent monopoly, Standard Sanitary
Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; Interstate Circuit

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Opinion of the Court.

v. United States, 306 U. S. 208, 228-230; or upon the
maintenance of resale prices by the purchaser of the
patented article. Adarms v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; BobbsMerrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339; Dr. Miles Medical
Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373; Bauer &
Cie v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S. 1; Straus v. Victor Talking
Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490; Boston Store v. American
Graphophone Co., 246 U. S. 8; cf. United States v.
General Electric Co., supra, 485.
Appellant, as patentee, possesses exclusive rights to
make and sell the fluid and also the lead-treated motor
fuel. By its sales to refiners it relinquishes its exclusive
right to use the patented fluid; and it relinquishes to the
licensed jobbers its exclusive rights to sell the lead-treated
fuel by permitting the licensed refiners to manufacture
and sell the fuel to them. And by the authorized sales
of the fuel by refiners to jobbers the patent monopoly
over it is exhausted, and after the sale neither appellant
nor the refiners may longer rely on the patents to exercise
any control over the price at which the fuel may be resold. Adams v. Burke, supra;Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus,
supra; Bauer & Cie v. O'Donnell, supra; Motion Picture
Patents Co. v. Universal Film Co., supra.
The picture here revealed is not that of a patentee
exercising its right to refuse to sell or to permit his
licensee to sell the patented products to price-cutters.
Compare United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300
with United States v. A. Schrader's Son, 252 U. S. 85.
A very different scene is depicted by the record. It is
one in which appellant has established the marketing of
the patented fuel in vast amounts on a nationwide scale
through the 11,000 jobbers and at the same time, by the
leverage of its licensing contracts resting on the fulcrum
of its patents, it has built up a combination capable of
use, and actually used, as a means of controlling jobbers'
prices and suppressing competition among them. It

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

seems plain that this attempted regulation of prices and
market practices of the jobbers with respect to the fuel
purchased, for which appellant could not lawfully contract, cannot be lawfully achieved by entering into contracts or combinations through the manipulation of which
the same results are reached by the exercise of the power
which they give to control the action of the purchasers.
Such contracts or combinations which are used to obtruct the free and natural flow in the channels of interstate commerce of trade even in a patented article, after
it is sold by the patentee or his licensee, are a violation
of the Sherman Act. Federal Trade Commission v.
Beech-Nut Co., supra, 453; United Shoe Machinery Co.
v. United States, supra; Victor Talking Machine Co. v.
Kemeny, 271 F. 810, 817; cf. United States v. A. Schrader's Son, supra. Agreements for price maintenance of
articles moving in interstate commerce are, without more,
unreasonable restraints within the meaning of the Sherman Act because they eliminate competition, United
States v. Trenton PotteriesCo., 273 U. S. 392, and agreements which create potential power for such price maintenance exhibited by its actual exertion for that purpose
are in themselves unlawful restraints within the meaning
of the Sherman Act, which is not only a prohibition
against the infliction of a particular type of public injury
but "a limitation of rights which may be pushed to evil
consequences and therefore restrained." Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, supra, 49; American Column Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377, 400; United
States v. American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371; United
States v. Trenton PotteriesCo., supra, 397, 398.
The extent to which appellant's dominion over the
jobbers' business goes beyond its patent monopoly, is
emphasized by the circumstances here present that the
prices and market practices sought to be established are
not those prescribed by appellant-patentee, but by the

ETHYL GASOLINE CORP. v. U. S.
436

Opinion of the Court.

refiners. Appellant neither owns nor sells the patented
fuel nor derives any profit through royalties or otherwise
from its sale. It has chosen to exploit its patents by
manufacturing the fluid covered by them and by selling
that fluid to refiners for use in the manufacture of motor
fuel. Such benefits as result from control over the marketing of the treated fuel by the jobbers accrue primarily
to the refiners and indirectly to appellant, only in the
enjoyment of its monopoly of the fluid secured under
another patent. The licensing conditions are thus not
used as a means of stimulating the commercial development and, financial returns of the patented invention
which is licensed, but for the commercial development
of the business of the refiners and the exploitation of a
second patent monopoly not embraced in the first. The
patent monopoly of one invention, may no more be enlarged for the exploitation of a monopoly of another, see
Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, supra, than
for the exploitation of an unpatented article, United Shoe
Machinery Co. v. United States, supra; Carbice Corporation v. American Patents Corp., supra; Leitch Manufacturing Co. v. Barber Co., supra; American Lecithin
Co. v. Warfield Co., 105 F. 2d"207, or for the exploitation
or promotion of a business not embraced within the patent. Interstate Circuit v. United States, supra, 228-230.
Protection of Health and Quality of Product.
The trial court was of opinion that such interest as
appellant has in protecting the health of the public in
connection with the distribution of the fuel, and in preventing adulteration, deterioration and dilution of the
motor fuel in the hands of the jobbers may be adequately
protected without resort to the jobber license device
which has been and is capable of being used for other
and illicit purposes. Compare International Business
Machines Corp. v. United States, supra, 139, 140. This

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

conclusion is, we think, amply supported by the record.
The precautions taken to protect the public health in the
handling of the motor fuel by jobbers and service stations
include the health restrictions imposed on jobbers by the
refiners included in their contracts with jobbers, inspections, more or less perfunctory, by representatives of appellant, and the posting by jobbers and distributors of
notices supplied by appellant stating that the fuel contains lead and is for use as a motor fuel only. These
activities are not interfered with by the decree.
There is no authentic instance of injury resulting from
the handling of lead-treated gasoline, after its manufacture, attributable to its lead content. Extensive expert
study, carried on under direction of appellant over a
period of years, detailed in the record, resulted in a
report that the risk arising from the absorption of lead
through the skin in the handling of the lead-treated fuel
is so small as to be negligible, and that the use of the
fuel made in conformity to the refiners' licenses has not
caused or produced any dangers or hazards to health.
The avoidance of such dangers as there may be in the
handling of the motor fuel by jobbers and distributors
is plainly not beyond control by public health regulations, and would seem, as the district court thought, to
be amply secured, in any case, through the self-interest
of the refiners in requiring the purchasers of their gasoline to take proper health precautions including the posting of notices which appellant supplies and by the continuance of appellant's inspection, all of which are
permissible under the decree. It is likewise apparent
that the interest the appellant has in preventing dilution,
adulteration and deterioration of the treated gasoline in
the hands of the jobbers may be similarly protected without continued resort to jobber licenses, which is precluded
by reason of their use and the danger of their continued
use for other and illegal purposes,

HELVERING v. BRUUN.
436

Syllabus.

Since the unlawful control over the jobbers was established and maintained by resort to the licensing device,
the decree rightly suppressed it even though it had been
or might continue to be used for some lawful purposes.
The court was bound to frame its decree so as to suppress the unlawful practices and to take such reasonable
measures as would preclude their revival. Local 167 v.
United States, 291 U. S. 293; Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co.,
265 U. S. 526, 532. It could, in the exercise of its discretion, consider whether that could be accomplished
effectively without disestablishing the licensing system,
and whether there were countervailing reasons for continuing it as a necessary or proper means for appellant
to carry out other lawful purposes. Since the court
rightly concluded that these reasons were without substantial weight, it properly suppressed the means by
which the unlawful restraint was achieved. Local 167 v.
United States, supra, 299, 300; cf. Merchants Warehouse
Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 501, 513.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration or decision of this
case.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. BRUUN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 479.

Argued February 28, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

1. Where, upon termination of a lease, the lessor repossessed the
real estate and improvements, including a new building erected
by the lessee, an increase in value attributable to the new building
was taxable under the Revenue Act of 1932 as income of the
lessor in the year of repossession. P. 467.

