McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.

33

Syllabus.

McGOLDRICK, COMPTROLLER OF THE CITY OF
NEW YORK, v. BERWIND-WHITE COAL MINING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

-No. 475. Argued January 2, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.
1. By contracts of sale made, through a sales office in the City of
New York, with public utility and steamship companies in that
city, a Pennsylvania corporation agreed to sell and deliver to them
large quantities of coal of specified grades (said to possess unique
qualities) produced at its Pennsylvania mines. The coal moved
by rail to Jersey City and thence by barge to the City of New
York and was there delivered to the purchasers' plants or steamships. Held, that the imposition of a tax by New York City on the
purchasers of the coal, measured by the sales price, and the requirement that the tax be collected by the seller, do not infringe
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 42 et seq.
The tax is 2% of the receipts upon every sale, for consumption,
of tangible personal property in the city, "sale" being defined as
"any transfer of title or possession or both . . . in any manner or
by any means whatsoever for a consideration or any agreement
therefor." The tax is upon the buyer, the seller being liable only
if he fails to collect and pay over. It is conditioned upon transfer
of title or possession or an agreement therefor, consummated in
the State.
2. Considering the necessity of reconciling the competing constitutional demands, that commerce between the States shall not be
unduly impeded by state action, and that the power to lay taxes
for the support of state government shall not be unduly curtailed,
the Court finds no adequate ground for saying that this tax is a
regulation which, in the absence of Congressional action, the commerce clause forbids. P. 49.
3. The tax as here applied is not open to the objections that it is
aimed at or discriminates against interstate commerce, or that it
is laid upon the privilege of interstate commerce, or that it is a tax
upon interstate transportation or its gross earnings, or upon
merchandise in the course of an interstate journey. P. 48.
The only relation of the tax to interstate commerce arises from
the fact that, immediately preceding transfer of possession to the
purchaser within the State, the merchandise has been transported
215234*-40-

3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioner.

309 U. S.

in interstate commerce. In its effect upon interstate commerce it
does not differ from taxes on the "use" of property which has just
been moved in interstate commerce, or on storage or withdrawal for
use, or a property tax on goods after arrival.
4. There is no valid distinction in this relationship between a tax on
property-the sum of all the rights and powers incident to ownership-and a tax on the exercise of some of its constituent elements.
P. 52.
5. The burden and effect of the tax are no greater when the purchase order or contract precedes than when it follows the interstate
shipment. P. 54.
6. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, has been
narrowly limited to fixed-sum license taxes imposed only on the
business of soliciting orders for the purchase of goods to be shipped
interstate. P. 57.
7. The tax being conditioned upon a local activity-delivery of goods
within the State upon their purchase for consumption-is not
subject to the objection applicable to a tax on gross receipts from
interstate commerce, which exacts tribute for the commerce carried
on both within and without the State. Adams Manufacturing Co. v.
Storen, 304 U. S. 307, distinguished. P. 57.
8. The question whether the taxing statute is intended to apply
where contracts for purchase made in New York City call for
delivery outside of the State is a question for the state court. P. 58.
281 N. Y. 610, 670; 22 N. E. 2d 173, 764, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 546, to review the affirmance of a
judgment sustaining a sales tax assessed by the Comptroller of the City of New York.
Mr. William C. Chanler,with whom Messrs. Sol Charles
Levine, Edmund B. Hennefeld, and Jerome R. Hellerstein were on the brief, for petitioner.
From whatever angle the problem is approached, the
burden and effect of the tax are the same, whether imposed upon a sale of goods produced or stored within or
without the State.
If we are correct in that analysis, the tax must be
sustained, for if its effect on interstate commerce is identical with its effect upon local commerce, it can not violate
the commerce clause.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

Argument for Petitioner.

A state taxing statute can be invalidated under the
commerce clause only if it subjects interstate commerce
to such a burden as is tantamount to an interference with
the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
several States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. Whether
it does interfere with interstate commerce is a question
of fact. Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290,
295; Kansas City Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 233.
The goods brought in by the "stranger from afar"
stand upon exactly the same footing, so far as this tax
is concerned, as those of the local merchant. True, he
may have been taxed by his home State or even by the
various States which he traversed on his way to the
market. But, under the rulings of this Court he can have
been subjected only to such taxes as were either imposed
upon local events in the other States, or apportioned
according to the proportion of his business done in such
States.
What difference does it make whether the merchant
brings the actual goods to the market place with him, or
whether he sells from samples? The purchaser will not
be influenced by the question of where the warehouse,
factory or mine may be located. Even though he may
insist upon the product of a particular named factory or
mine, it is immaterial whether that factory or mine is
located in upstate New York or in Pennsylvania. His
sole concern is to get the particular product which he
wants, at the lowest price.
On the other hand, if the tax at bar is held void, the
effect upon commerce becomes immediately apparent.
No local merchant will make any sales at all if similar
goods are offered by his competitors from other States;
for every purchaser will pass him by to seek the vendor
whose goods are free from tax.
Such a result is repugnant to every principle of equality
between the citizens of the several States inherent in
our federal system.

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioner.

309 U. S.

The present tax is indistinguishable from the "use tax,"
recently sustained by this Court. Felt & Tarrant Mfg.
Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 62; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Gallagher,306 U. S. 167; Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 182.
A tax imposed upon a local activity, or imposed on an
interstate transaction before the interstate movement has
commenced or after it has come to rest, is valid because
it can not be imposed in more than one State. American
Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Western Live Stock
v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250; Coverdale v. Pipe Line Co., 303
U. S. 604; Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472.
The tax here is upon the transfer of possession for use or
consumption, a local event which can take place in only a
single State. It is imposed not upon the seller but upon
local buyers, who can not be taxed in any other State.
Wiloil Corp. v. Pennsylvania,294 U. S. 169; Utah Power
Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165; Co verdale case, supra.
The imposition by another State of a tax on the seller
upon the same transaction would not impose a burden of
multiple taxation merely because the commerce is being
done, since such a tax could also be imposed upon local
sellers. American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, supra; Gregg
Dyeing Co. v. Query, supra; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v.
Wallace, 288 U. S. 249; Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304
U. S. 307; Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S.
434.
Practical, social and economic considerations require
that the tax at bar be sustained.
It may be noted that no taxes have been imposed by
other States in connection with the transactions involved
in this case. Cf. Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher, 306
U. S. 167, 172.
The burden of the imaginary taxes suggested by respondent, if they are valid in their own right, would
exist independently of the New York tax and would be

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

37

Argument for Respondent.

equally borne by similar transactions of local origin. If
not valid in their own right, a decision sustaining the
present tax would not open the door to their imposition.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Montgomery
B. Angell and Marvin Lyons were on the brief, for respondent.
A tax directed in terms or in its practical operation
against interstate commerce as such, thereby discriminating in favor of local commerce, is invalid. Walling v.
Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.
344; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419.
A tax upon interstate sales, even though laid equally
upon local sales, violates the commerce clause if it
is measured by the entire gross receipts without apportionment to the activities carried on within the State; for
if the tax were upheld, each State involved in the interstate movement could with equal right impose a tax similarly measured upon the same transactions. Gwin, White
& Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434; Adams Mfg.
Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307; Western Live Stock v. Bureau
of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 255-6; Fisher's Blend Station
v. State Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 650; Philadelphia&
Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Case
of the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232.
On the other hand, a nondiscriminatory local tax laid
upon the ownership or the use of property purchased in
interstate commerce is valid even though measured by the
purchase price of the property, since the events or activities upon which the tax is imposed are purely local, occurring after interstate commerce has come to an end. Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 167; Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 62; Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Gallagher,306 U. S. 182; Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577; Monamotor Oil

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

309 U. S.

Co. v. Johnson, 292 U. S. 86. Similarly, a local tax laid
upon an event or activity, such as manufacturing or
storage and withdrawal, completed within the taxing
State before the interstate commerce begins, is valid
though measured by the sale price of the property. American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Edelman v.
Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 289 U. S. 249; Eastern Air
Transport, Inc. v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n, 285
U. S. 147.
The protection of the commerce clause extends to
transactions in which interstate shipment of goods is contemplated and required. Ware & Leland v. Mobile
County, 209 U. S. 405; Banker Bros. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
294 U. S. 169; .Graybar Electric Co. v. Curry, 308 U. S.
513, affirming, 189 So. 186.
The sales tax here was held invalid as applied to interstate sales by the New York Court of Appeals. Matter
of National Cash Register Co. v. Taylor, 276 N. Y. 208;
cert. den. 303 U. S. 656; Matter of West Publishing Co. v.
Taylor, 276 N. Y. 535; cert. den. 303 U. S. 656. The
highest court of Michigan has followed the same principles. Montgomery Ward & Co. v. Fry, 277 Mich. 260;
269 N. W. 166.
In the case at bar direct shipment from seller to buyer
was contemplated and required. Each sale was an integrated whole and may not be broken down into a succession of local events in an effort to divorce each component event (here the transfer of title and possession,
or the making of the contract of sale) from the interstate transaction and to treat it as something purely
local and so outside the scope of the commerce clause.
The measure of the tax is the entire gross receipts from
the sales, without apportionment to activities or events
occurring within the State or City of New York. If, as
we maintain, these sales (including as their integral parts
the negotiation and execution of the contracts, the trans-

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

39

Argument for Respondent.

portation of the goods and the transfer of title) are interstate sales and fully within the protection of the commerce clause, then the final question is whether 'the
measure of the tax is such that without the protection
of the commerce clause the transactions would be subject to the risk of multiple tax burdens, the aggregate
of which would work a discrimination against such transactions, and might even destroy them entirely. Western Live Stockv. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 255.
The transactions here involved constitute a steady
stream of bituminous coal flowing daily in large quantities from the natural source of the coal at the seller's
mines in Pennsylvania, through New Jersey to the ships
and plants of the buyers at New York tidewater. The
interstate character of these transactions, carried on in
the same manner without variation for over forty years,
was required by the practical necessities of the business,
from the standpoint of both the buyer and the seller, and
was as far from a device for the avoidance of taxes as
anything could be.
The present case is one in which the purchaser requires
a special brand of coal, in large quantities, the only source
of which is the producer's own mines in Pennsylvania.
The producer sells directly to the consumers in circumstances which, as a matter of practical necessity both from
the standpoint of the producing seller and the purchaser,
require the shipment of the coal from the seller's mines
directly to the purchaser. Here there is only one transaction, namely, the interstate sale; this is not a case of
a dealer who buys outside the State and sells locally. Here
there is nothing artificial in the interstate character of
the transaction; the interstate character of the transaction
is the essence of it. Cf. Superior Oil Co. v. Mississippi,
280 U. S. 390.
The delivery and transfer of title to the purchaser at the
terminus can not be divorced from the transportation and

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

309 U. S.

treated as a purely local activity, for it is physically a part
of the transportation of the goods. The deliveries were
complete, and title passed to the purchasers only when
respondent's barges came alongside the purchasers' plants
or steamships; unloading was done by the purchasers.
The unloading is an integral part of interstate commerce and within the protection of the commerce clause.
Puget Sound Stevedoring Co. v. State Tax Comm'n, 302
U. S. 90.
Negotiation and execution of the contract of sale are
indispensable incidents of the interstate sale, within the
protection of the commerce clause. Gwin, White &
Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 437; Real Silk
Hosiery Mills v. Portland,268 U. S. 325; Davis v. Virginia, 236 U. S. 697; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S.
507; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Robbins v.
Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489. See Adams
Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 311.
The doctrine that interstate transactions must be rid
of the danger of multiple burdens imposed by different
States would be meaningless if it were limited in
its application to multiple taxes upon the same component event and the same person. The due process clause prohibits one State from imposing a tax
upon an event which occurs in another State or upon a
person resident in another State; the commerce clause is
not necessary to protect the transactions in that respect.
When there is a danger that local taxes may be imposed
by more than one State upon different phases of an integrated interstate transaction, then the fact that such taxes
will become cumulative burdens upon the transaction and
thus create trade barriers between the States or destroy
the commerce entirely makes it absolutely necessary to
bring the commerce clause into play.
Whether the tax is payable by the buyer, or the seller,
or the carrier, or the stevedore, is unimportant; the eco-

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

Opinion of the Court.

nomic burden upon the transaction is the same, since
the amount of the tax will be reflected either in an increased cost of the goods to the buyer or a decreased
profit to the seller.
The business in which the purchaser is engaged is immaterial, as this is not a tax upon his business but upon
an interstate transaction in which he participates. Gwin,
White & Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 441;
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250,
260-1; Fisher'sBlend Station v. State Tax Comm'n, 297

U. S. 650.
The principle of Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S.
307, and Gwin, White & Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305

U. S. 434, is that a tax upon interstate transactions may
not be imposed by any State if it is measured by entire
gross receipts, but may be imposed only if the measure of
the tax is a fair proportion of the gross receipts allocated
to the activities carried on within the State.
The use tax cases are clearly distinguishable. The
difference is one of substance, a difference in the choice
of the thing taxed.

Southern Pacific Co. v. Gallagher,

306 U. S.167, 177.
MR. JUSTICE

STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether the New York City
tax laid upon sales of goods for consumption, as applied
to respondent, infringes the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution.
Upon certiorari to review a determination by the Comptroller of the City of New York that respondent was subject to New York City sales tax in the sum of $176,703,
the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court
held that the taxing statute as applied to respondent
does so infringe, 255 App. Div. 961; 8 N. Y. S. 2d 668, on
the authority of Matter of National Cash Register Co. v.

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Taylor, 276 N. Y. 208; 11 N. E. 2d 881, cert. den., 303
U. S. 656: Matter of Compagnie Generale Transatlantique
v. McGoldrick, 279 N. Y. 192; 18 N. E. 2d 28. The New
York Court of Appeals affirmed without opinion, 281
N. Y. 610, but its amended remittitur declared that the
affirmance was upon the sole ground that the taxing statute as applied violated the commerce clause, id. 670. We
granted certiorari, 308 U. S. 546, the question presented
being of public importance, upon a petition which challenged the decision of the state court as not in accord
with applicable decisions of this Court in Banker Brothers
v. Pennsylvania, 222 U. S. 210; Wiloil Corporation v.
Pennsylvania,294 U. S. 169.
Chapter 815 of the New York Laws of 1933, as amended
by Chapter 873 of the New York Laws of 1934, authorized
the City of New York, for a limited period within which
the present tax was laid, "to adopt and amend local laws
imposing in . . . [the] city any tax .. .which the legislature has or would have power and authority to impose." It
directed that "a tax imposed hereunder shall have application only within the territorial limits" of the city; and
that "this Act shall not authorize the imposition of a tax
on any transaction originating and/or consummated outside of the territorial limits of . . . [the] city, notwithstanding that some act be necessarily performed with
respect to such transaction within such limits." It required the revenues from the tax to be used exclusively
for unemployment relief.
Pursuant to this authority the municipal assembly of
the City of New York adopted Local Law No. 24 of 1934
(published as Local Law No. 25), since annually renewed,
which laid a tax upon purchasers for consumption of
tangible personal property generally (except foods and
drugs furnished on prescription), of utility services in
supplying gas, electricity, telephone service, etc., and of
meals consumed in restaurants. By § 2 the tax was fixed
at "two percentum upon the amount of the receipts from

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

Opinion of the Court.

every sale in the city of New.York," "sale" being defined
by § 1 (e) as "any transfer of title or possession, or both
. . . in any manner or by any means whatsoever for a
consideration or any agreement therefor." Another
clause of § 2 1 commands that the tax "shall be paid by
the purchaser to the vendor, for and on account of the
City of New York." By the same clause the vendor, who
is authorized to collect the tax, is required to charge it to
the purchaser, separately from the sales price; and is
made liable, as an insurer, for its payment to the city.
By § § 4 and 5 the vendor is required to keep records and
file returns showing the amount of the receipts from sales
and the amount of the tax. In event of its nonpayment
to the seller the buyer is required, within fifteen days after
his purchase, to file a tax return and to pay the tax to the
Comptroller, who is authorized by § 2 to set up a procedure for the collection of the tax from the purchaser.
Purchases for resale are exempt from the tax, and a purchaser who pays the tax and later resells is entitled to a
refund.
The ultimate burden of the tax, both in form and in
substance, is thus laid upon the buyer, for consumption,
of tangible personal property, and measured by the sales
price. Only in event that the seller fails to pay over to
the city the tax collected or to charge and collect it as
the statute requires, is the burden cast on him. It is conditioned upon events occurring within the state, either
1 "Upon

each taxable sale or service the tax to be collected shall be

stated and charged separately from the sale price or charge for service
and shown separately on any record thereof, at the' time when the
sale is made or evidence of sale issued or employed by the vendor
and shall be paid by the purchaser to the vendor, for and on account
of the city of New York, and the vendor shall be liable for the collection or the service rendered; and the vendor shall have the same right
in respect to collecting the tax from the purchaser, or in respect to
non-payment of the tax by the purchaser, as if the tax were a part
of the purchase price of the property or service and payable at the
tinfe of the sale."

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

transfer of title or possession of the purchased property,
or an agreement within the state, "consummated" there,
for the transfer of title, or possession. The duty of collecting the tax and paying it over to the Comptroller is
imposed on the seller in addition to the duty imposed
upon the buyer to pay the tax to the Comptroller when
not so collected. Such, in substance, has been the construction of the statute by the state courts. Matter of
Atlas Television Co., 273 N. Y. 51; 6 N. E. 2d 94; Matter
of Merchants Refrigerating Co. v. Taylor, 275 N. Y. 113;
9 N. E. 2d 799; Matter of Kesbec, Inc. v. McGoldrick,
278 N. Y. 293; 16 N. E. 2d 288.
Respondent, a Pennsylvania corporation, is engaged in
the production of coal of specified grades, said to possess
unique qualities, from its mines within that state and in
selling it to consumers and dealers. It maintains a sales
office in New York City and sells annually to its customers 1,500,000 tons of its product, of which approximately 1,300,000 tons are delivered by respondent to some
twenty public utility and steamship companies. The coal
moves by rail from mine to dock in Jersey City, thence in
most instances by barge to the point of delivery. All the
sales contracts with the New York customers in question
were entered into in New York City, and with two exceptions, presently to be considered separately, call for delivery of the coal by respondent by barge, alongside the
purchasers' plants or steamships. In many instances the
price of the coal was stated to be subject to any increase
or decrease of mining costs including wages, and of railroad rates between the mines and the Jersey City terminal to which the coal was to be shipped. All the deliveries, with the exceptions already noted, were made
within New York City, and all such are.concededly subject to the tax except insofar as it infringes the commerce
clause.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

Opinion of the Court.

Section 8 of the Constitution declares that "Congress
shall have power . . . to regulate commerce with foreign
Nations, and among the several States ...
." In imposing taxes for state purposes a state is not exercising
any power which the Constitution has conferred upon
Congress. It is only when the tax operates to regulate
commerce between the states or with foreign nations to
an extent which infringes the authority conferred upon
Congress, that the tax can be said to exceed constitutional
limitations. See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 187;
South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303
U. S. 177, 185. Forms of state taxation whose tendency
is to prohibit the commerce or place it at a disadvantage
as compared or in competition with intrastate commerce,
and any state tax which discriminates against the commerce, are familiar examples of the exercise of state taxing power in an unconstitutional manner, because of its
obvious regulatory effect upon commerce between the
states.'
'Despite mechanical or artificial distinctions sometimes taken between the taxes deemed permissible and those condemned, the decisions
appear to be predicated on a practical judgment as to the likelihood
of the tax being used to place interstate commerce at a competitive disadvantage. See Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas,
210 U. S. 217, 227. License taxes requiring a corporation engaged in
interstate commerce to pay a fee of a certain percentage of its capital
stock have been rejected because of the danger that each state in
which the corporation does business may impose a similar tax, measured by its interstate business in all, Western Union v. Kansas,
216 U. S. 1; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280;
Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178; International Paper Co. v.
Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135, and have only been sustained when
apportioned to that part of the capital thought to be attributable to
an intrastate activity. National Leather Co. v. Massachusetts, 277 U. S.
413; International Shoe Co. v. Shartel, 279 U. S. 429; Ford Motor
Co. v. Beauchamp, 308 U. S. 331. Privilege taxes requiring a percentage of the gross receipts from interstate transportation or from

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

But it was not the purpose of the commerce clause to
relieve those engaged in interstate commerce of their
just share of state tax burdens, merely because an incidental or consequential effect of the tax is an increase
in the cost of doing the business, Western Live Stock v.
Bureau, 303 U. S. 250, 254. Not all state taxation is to
be condemned because, in some manner, it has an effect
upon commerce between the states, and there are many
forms of tax whose burdens, when distributed through
the play of econoric forces, affect interstate commerce,
other activities in carrying on the movement of that commerce,
which if sustained could be imposed wherever the interstate activity
occurs, have been struck down for similar reasons. Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Philadelphia& S. Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Galveston, H. &
S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, cf. Gwin, White & Prince v.
Henneford, 305 U. S. 434. Fixed-sum license fees, regardless of the
amount, for the privilege of carrying on the commerce, have been
thought likely to be used to overburden the interstate commerce,
McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104; Crutcherv. Kentucky, 141 U. S.
47; Barrett v. New York, 232 U. S. 14; Texas Transportation &
Terminal Co. v. New Orleans, 264 U. S. 150. Taxation of articles in
course of their movement in interstate commerce is similarly foreclosed. Case of State Freight Tax, 13 Wall. 232; Champlain Realty
Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366; Hughes Bros. Co. v. Minnesota,
272 U. S. 469; Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U. S. 95. See
Henderson, The Position of Foreign Corporations in American Constitutional Law, 117; Powell, Indirect Encroachment on Federal Authority by the Taxing Power of the States, 31 Harv. L. Rev. 321,
572, 721, 932; 32 Harv. L. Rev. 234, 374, 634, 902. Lying back of
these decisions is the recognized danger that, to the extent that the
burden falls on economic interests without the state, it is not likely
to be alleviated by those political restraints which are normally
exerted on legislation where it affects adversely interests within the
state. See Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489,
499; South CarolinaHighway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177,
185, Note 2; cf. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Helvering v.
Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, 412.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
38

Opinion of the Court.

which nevertheless fall short of the regulation of the commerce which the Constitution leaves to Congress. A tax
may be levied on net income wholly derived from interstate commerce. Non-discriminatory taxation of the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce is not prohibited.' The like taxation of property, shipped interstate, before its movement begins,' or after it ends,' is
not a forbidden regulation. An excise for the warehousing of merchandise preparatory to its interstate shipment or upon its use,' or withdrawal for use,' by the consignee after the interstate journey has ended is not precluded. Nor is taxation of a local business or occupation
which is separate and distinct from the transportation
or intercourse which is interstate commerce, forbidden
merely because in the ordinary course such transportation or intercourse is induced or occasioned by such business, or is prerequisite to it. Western Live Stock v. Bureau, supra, 253, and cases cited.
' United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Underwood
Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S. 113; Atlantic Coast Line
R. Co. v. Daughton, 262 U. S: 413; Matson Navigation Co. v. State
Board, 297 U. S. 441.
'Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; Wells Fargo & Co. v.
Nevada, 248 U. S. 165; St. Louis & E. St. L. Ry. Co. v. Missouri, 256
U. S. 314; Southern Ry. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S. 519.
'Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504;
Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; Minnesota v. Blasius,
290 U. S. 1. Cf. Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S. 284.
'Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Pittsburgh & Southern Coal
Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192
U. S. 500; General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211.
'Federal Compress & Warehouse Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17;
Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584.
8
Eastern Air Transport v. South Carolina, 285 U. S. 147; Gregg
Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Wallace, 288 U. S. 249; Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, 289 U. S.
249.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

In few of these cases could it be said with assurance
that the local tax does not in some measure affect the
commerce or increase the cost of doing it. But in them
as in other instances of constitutional interpretation so
as to insure the harmonious operation of powers reserved
to the states with those conferred upon the national
government, courts are called upon to reconcile competing constitutional demands, that commerce between the
states shall not be unduly impeded by state action, and
that the power to lay taxes for the support of state government shall not be unduly curtailed. See Woodruff v.
Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 131; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.
622; Galveston, H. & S. A. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217,
225, 227; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell
Bros., supra; Ford Motor Co. v. Beauchamp, 308 U. S.
331; cf. Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U; S. 514, 523,
et seq.; Board of County Comm'rs of Jackson County v.
United States, 308 U. S. 343.
Certain types of tax may, if permitted at all, so readily
be made the instrument of impeding or destroying interstate commerce as plainly to call for their condemnation
as forbidden regulations. Such are the taxes already
noted which are aimed at or discriminate against the commerce or impose a levy for the privilege of doing it, or
tax interstate' transportation or communication or their
gross earnings, or levy an exaction on merchandise in the
course of its interstate journey. Each imposes a burden
which intrastate commerce does not bear, and merely because interstate commerce is being done places it at a
disadvantage in comparison with intrastate business or
property in circumstances such that if the asserted power
to tax were sustained, the states would be left free to exert
it to the detriment of the national commerce.
The present tax as applied to respondent is without the
possibility of such consequences. Equality is its theme,

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

Opinion of the Court.

cf. Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S. 577, 583. It
does not aim at or discriminate against interstate commerce. It is laid upon every purchaser, within the state,
of goods for consumption, regardless of whether they have
been transported in interstate commerce. Its only relation
to the commerce arises from the fact that immediately
preceding transfer of possession to the purchaser within
the state, which is the taxable event regardless of the time
and place of passing title, the merchandise has been transported in interstate commerce and brought to its
journey's end. Such a tax has no different effect upon
interstate commerce than a tax on the "use" of property
which has just been moved in interstate commerce,
sustained in Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson, 292 U. S. 86;
Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., supra; Felt & TarrantMfg.
Co. v. Gallagher, 306 U. S. 62; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Gallagher, 306 U. S. 167, or the tax on storage or withdrawal for use by the consignee of gasoline, similarly
sustained in Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472;
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249;
Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, 289 U. S. 249, or the
familiar property tax on goods by the state of destination
at the conclusion of their interstate journey. Brown v.
Houston, supra; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed,
192 U. S. 500.
If, as guides to decision, we look to the purpose of the
commerce clause to protect interstate commerce from discriminatory or destructive state action, and at the same
time to the purpose of the state taxing power under which
interstate commerce admittedly must bear its fair share
of state tax burdens, and to the necessity of judicial reconciliation of these competing demands, we can find
no adequate ground for saying that the present tax is a
regulation which, in the absence of Congressional action,
215234--40-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

the commerce clause forbids.' This Court has uniformly
sustained a tax imposed by the state of the buyer upon a
sale of goods, in several instances in the "original package," effected by delivery to the purchaser upon arrival
at destination after an interstate journey, both when the
local seller has purchased the goods extra-state for the
purpose of resale, Woodruff v. Parham,supra; Hinson v.
Lott, 8 Wall. 148; Banker Bros. v. Pennsylvania, supra;
Wiloil Corp. v. Pennsylvania, supra; Graybar Electric
Co. v. Curry, 308 U. S. 513; 238 Ala. 116; 189 So. 186, and
when the extra-state seller has shipped them into the
taxing state for sale there. Hinson v. Lott, supra;
Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506. It has likewise sustained a fixed-sum license tax imposed on the
agent of the interstate seller for the privilege of selling
merchandise brought into the taxing state for the purpose of sale. Howe Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676;
Emert v. Missouri, 156 U. S. 296; Kehrer v. Stewart, 197
U. S. 60; Baccus v. Louisiana, 232 U. S. 334; Wagner v.
Covington, 251 U. S. 95.
The only challenge made to these controlling authorities is by reference to unconstitutional "burdens" on
interstate commerce made in general statements which
are inapplicable here because they are torn from their
setting in judicial opinions and speak of state regulations
or taxes of a different kind laid in different circumstances
from those with which we are now concerned. See for
example, Galveston, H. & S.A. R. Co. v. Texas, supra;
Cooney v. Mountain States Telephone Co., 294 U. S. 384;
Fisher'sBlend Station v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 650.
Others will presently be discussed. But unless we are
now to reject the plain teaching of this line of sales tax
' The imposition on the seller of the duty to insure collection of the
tax from the purchaser does not violate the commerce clause. See
Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson, supra; Felt & Tarrant Mfg. Co. v.
Gallagher, supra.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

51

Opinion of the Court.

decisions, extending back for more than seventy years
from Graybar Electric Co. v. Curry, supra, decided this

term, to Woodruff v. Parham,supra, the present tax must
be upheld. As we have seen, the ruling of these decisions does not rest on precedent alone. It has the support of reason and of a due regard for the just balance
between national and state power. In sustaining these
taxes on sales emphasis was placed on the circumstances
that they were not so laid, measured or conditioned as to
afford a means of obstruction to the commerce or of

discrimination against it, and that the extension of the
immunity of the commerce clause contended for would

be at the expense of state taxing power by withholding
from taxation property and transactions within the state
without the gain of any needed protection to interstate
commerce. Woodruff v. Parham, supra, 137, 140; Hinson v. Lott, supra, 152; Sonneborn Bros. v.

Cureton,

supra, 513, 514, 521; Wiloil Corp. v. Pennsylvania, supra,
174; cf. Broum v. Houston, supra; Henneford v. Silas
Mason Co., supra, 583.10
oIn all of these cases, except Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., supra,
the taxed sale was of merchandise in the "original package," although
the original package doctrine had been thought to be a "positive and
absolute" limitation on the exercise of state power. American Steel &
Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500, 521. The doctrine originated in
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, where a discriminatory tax on
imports was involved. It was overthrown as to interstate commerce
when the court found that it would be unjust to permit the merchant
who engaged in interstate commerce to escape a tax which the state
had levied on the sale of goods after their interstate shipment, but
with equal justice on all merchants. Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall.
123; Hinson v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148. After its supposed recrudescence in
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, the opinions of Justice Miller in Woodruff v. Parham, supra, and of Justice Bradley in Brown v. Houston,
114 U. S. 622, were explained by Chief Justice (then Justice) White
in American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, supra, at 521, as the recognition by the court that the question was not whether "interstate commerce was to be considered as having completely terminated," but

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Apart from these more fundamental considerations
which we think are of controlling force in the application
of the commerce clause, we can find no adequate basis for
distinguishing the present tax laid on the sale or purchase of goods upon their arrival at destination at the end
of an interstate journey from the tax which may be laid
in like fashion on the property itself. That the latter is
a permissible tax has long been established by an unwavering line of authority. Brown v. Houston, supra;
Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Pittsburgh & Southern Coal
Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S.577; American Steel & Wire Co. v.
Speed, supra, 520; General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S.
211; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504. As we have often
pointed out, there is no distinction in this relationship between a tax on property, the sum of all the rights and
powers incident to ownership, and the taxation of the
exercise of some of its constituent elements. Nashville,
C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, supra, 267, 268; Henneford
v. Silas Mason Co., supra, 582; cf. Bromley v. McCaughn,
whether a particular exertion of taxing power by a state "so operated
upon interstate commerce as to amount to a regulation thereof, in
conflict with the paramount authority conferred upon Congress."
He pointed out that the Court in these cases "conceded that the goods
which were taxed had not completely lost their character as interstate commerce since they had not been sold in the original package.
As, however, they had arrived at their destination, were at rest in
the State, were enjoying the protection which the laws of the State
afforded, and were taxed without discrimination like all other property,
it was held that the tax did not amount to a regulation in the sense
of the Constitution, although its levy might remotely and indirectly
affect interstate commerce." Cf. Cardozo, J., in Baldwin v. Seelig,
294 U. S. 511, 526.
"The test of the 'original package,' which came into our law with
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, is not inflexible and final for the
transactions of interstate commerce, whatever may be its validity for
commerce with other countries. Cf. Woodruff v. Parham, supra;
Anglo-Chilean Nitrate Sales Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218, 226.
There are purposes for which merchandise, transported from another

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

Opinion of the Court.

280 U. S. 124, 136-138. If coal situated as that in the
present case was, before its delivery, subject to a state
property tax, see Brown v. Houston, supra; Pittsburgh &
Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, supra, transfer of possession
of the coal upon a sale is equally taxable, see Wiloil Corp.
v. Pennsylvania, supra, 175, just as was the storage or
use of the property in similar circumstances held taxable
in Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, supra;Henneford v. Silas Mason Co., supra.
Respondent, pointing to the course of its business and
to its contracts which contemplate the shipment of the
coal interstate upon orders of the New York customers,
insists that a distinction is to be taken between a tax laid
on sales made, without previous contract, after the merchandise has crossed the state boundary, and sales, the
contracts for which when made contemplate or require the
transportation of merchandise interstate to the taxing
state, will be treated as a part of the general mass of property at the
state of destination though still in the original containers. This is

so, for illustration, where merchandise so contained is subjected to a
non-discriminatory property tax which it bears equally with other
merchandise produced within the state. Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,
262 U. S. 506; Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 475; American
Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500. . . . 'A state tax upon
merchandise brought in from another State, or upon its sales, whether
in original packages or not, after it has reached its destination and
is in a state of rest, is lawful only when the tax is not discriminating
in its incidence against the merchandise because of its origin in another
State.' Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, supra, at p. 516. Cf. Bowman
v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465, 491;

.

.

.

In brief,

the test of the original package is not an ultimate principle. It is an
illustration of a principle. Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, 225 N. Y. 397, 403; 122 N. E. 260. It marks a convenient
boundary and one sufficiently precise save in exceptional conditions.
What is ultimate is the principle that one state in its dealings with
another may not place itself in a position of economic isolation.
Formulas and catchwords are subordinate to this overmastering
requirement."

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

state. Only the sales in the state of destination in the
latter class of cases, it is said, are protected from taxation
by the commerce clause, a qualification which respondent
concedes is a salutary limitation upon the reach of the
clause since its use is thus precluded as a means of avoiding state taxation of merchandise transported to the state
in advance of the purchase order or contract of sale.
But we think this distinction is without the support of
reason or authority. A very large part, if not most of
the merchandise sold in New York City, is shipped interstate to that market. In the case of products like cotton,
citrus fruits and coal, not to mention many others which
are consumed there in vast quantities, all have crossed the
state line to seek a market, whether in fulfillment of a
contract or not. That is equally the case with other goods
sent from without the state to the New York market,
whether they are brought into competition with like
goods produced within the state or not. We are unable
to say that the present tax, laid generally upon all sales
to consumers within the state, subjects the commerce
involved where the goods sold are brought from other
states, to any greater burden or affects it more, in any
economic or practical way, whether the purchase order or
contract precedes or follows the interstate shipmer~t.
Since the tax applies only if a sale is made, and in either
case the object of interstate shipment is a sale at destination, the deterrent effect of the tax would seem to be the
same on both. Restriction of the scope of the commerce
clause so as to prevent recourse to it as a means of curtailing state taxing power seems as salutary in the one
case as in the other.
True, the distinction has the support of a statement
obiter in Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, supra, 515, and
seems to have been tacitly recognized in Ware & Leland
v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405, 412, and Banker Bros.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

55

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, although in each case a tax
on the sale of goods brought into the state for sale was
upheld. But we have sustained the tax where the course
of business and the agreement for sale plainly contemplated the shipment interstate in fulfilment of the contract. Wiloil Corporation v. Pennsylvania, supra, 173;
Graybar Electric Co. v. Curry, supra. In the same circumstances the Court has upheld a property tax on the
merchandise transported, American Steel & Wire Co. v.
Speed, supra; General Oil Co. v. Crain,supra; see Bacon
v. Illinois, supra, 515, 516; upon its use, Monamotor Oil
Co. v. Johnson, supra; Felt & Tarrant Co. v. Gallagher,
supra, and upon its storage; cf. Gregg Dyeing Co. v.
Query, supra;Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace,
supra. Taxation of property or the exercise of a power
over it immediately preceding its previously contemplated shipment interstate has been similarly sustained.
Coe v. Errol, supra; Bacon v. Illinois, supra; Federal
Compress & Warehouse Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17. For
reasons already indicated all such taxes upon property or
the exercise of the powers of ownership stand in no different relation to interstate commerce and have no different effect upon it than has the present sales tax upon
goods whose shipment interstate into the taxing state
was contemplated when the contract was entered into.
It is also urged that the conclusion which we reach is
inconsistent with the long line of decisions of this Court
following Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120
U. S. 489, which have held invalid, license taxes to the
extent that they have sought to tax the occupation of
soliciting orders for the purchase of goods to be shipped
into the taxing state. In some instances the tax appeared
to be aimed at suppression or placing at a disadvantage
this type of business when brought into competition with
competing intrastate sales. See Robbin v. Shelby County

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Taxing District, supra, 498; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622, 632.11 In all, the statute, in its practical operation, was capable of use, through increase in
the tax, and in fact operated to some extent to place the
merchant thus doing business interstate at a disadvantage
in competition with untaxed sales at retail stores within
the state. While a state, in some circumstances, may
by taxation suppress or curtail one type of intrastate
business to the advantage of another type of competing
business which is left untaxed, see Puget Sound Power &
Light Co. v. Seattle, 291 U. S. 619, 625, and cases cited,
it does not follow that interstate commerce may be similarly affected by the practical operation of a state taxing
statute. Compare Hammond Packing Co. v. Montana,
233 U. S. 331, Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40,
with Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, supra; Sprout v.

South Bend, 277 U. S. 163.

It is enough for present pur-

"iWhen the Robbins case was decided, sixteen states required the
payment of license taxes by some kinds of drummers. For citations
of the statutes, see, Lockhart, Sales Tax in Interstate Commerce, 52
Harv. L. Rev. 617, 621. More recently it has been estimated that
almost 800 municipal ordinances directed at drummers were adopted
for the purpose of embarrassing this competition with local merchants.
Hemphill, the House to House Canvasser in Interstate Commerce, 60
Am. L. Rev. 641. The court was cognizant of this trend, see Robbins
v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S.489, 498. Following this
decision 19 such taxes were declared invalid. Carson v. Maryland,
120 U. S.502; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S.129; Stoutenburgh v. Hennick, 129 U. S.141; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S.289; Stockard v.
Morgan, 185 U. S. 27; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622;
Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S.389; Rogers v. Arkansas, 227 U. S.
401; Stewart v. Michigan, 232 U. S.665; Davis v. Virginia, 236 U. S.
697; Real Silk Hosiery Mills v. Portland, 268 U. S. 325. Read in
their proper historical setting these cases may be said to support the
view that this kind of a tax is likely to be used "as an instrument of
discrimination against interstate or foreign commerce," see DiSanto v.
Pennsylvania, 273 U. S.34, 39.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

Opinion of the Court.

poses that the rule of Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing
District, supra, has been narrowly limited to fixed-sum
license taxes imposed on the business of soliciting orders
for the purchase of goods to be shipped interstate, compare Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, supra,
with Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S.
1; see Howe Machine Co. v. Gage, supra; Wagner v.
Covington, supra; and that the actual and potential
effect on the commerce of such a tax is wholly wanting in
the present case.
Finally, it is said that the vice of the present tax is that
it is measured by the gross receipts from interstate commerce and thus in effect reaches for taxation the commerce carried on both within and without the taxing
state. Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S.
307; Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, supra; cf.
Western Live Stock v. Bureau,supra, 260. It is true that
a state tax upon the operations of interstate commerce
measured either by its volume or the gross receipts derived from it has been held to infringe the commerce
clause, because the tax if sustained would exact tribute
for the commerce carried on beyond the boundaries of the
taxing state, and would leave each state through which
the commerce passes free to subject it to a like burden not
borne by intrastate commerce. See Western Live Stock
v. Bureau, supra, 255; Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, supra, 439.
In Adams ManufacturingCo. v. Storen, supra, 311, 312,
a tax on gross receipts, so far as laid by the state of the
seller upon the receipts from sales of goods manufactured
in the taxing state and sold in other states, was held invalid because there the court found the receipts derived
from activities in interstate commerce, as distinguished
from the receipts from activities wholly intrastate, were
included in the measure of the tax, the sales price, without segregation or apportionment. It was pointed out,

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U.S.

pages 310, 311 and 312, that had the tax been conditioned
upon the exercise of the taxpayer's franchise or its privilege of manufacturing in the taxing state, it would have
been sustained, despite its incidental effect on interstate
commerce, since the taxpayer's local activities or privileges
were sufficient to support such a tax, and that it could
fairly be measured by the sales price of the goods. Compare American Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S.
459, with Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S. 292.
See Western Live Stock v. Bureau, supra, 257-259; cf.
Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton v. State Tax Commission, 266
U. S. 271, 280; Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282
U. S.379, 387-8; Pacific Co. v. Johnson, 285 U. S. 480.
The rationale of the Adams Manufacturing Co. case
does not call for condemnation of the present tax. Here
the tax is conditioned upon a local activity, delivery of
goods within the state upon their purchase for consumption. It is an activity which, apart from its effect on the
commerce, is subject to the state taxing power. The
effect of the tax, even though measured by the sales price,
as has been shown, neither discriminates against nor
obstructs interstate commerce more than numerous other
state taxes which have repeatedly been sustained as involving no prohibited regulation of interstate commerce.
In two instances already noted, respondent's contracts
with Austin, Nichols & Co. and with the New England
Steamship Company call for delivery of the coal at points
outside of New York, in the one case f. o. b. at the mines
in Pennsylvania, and in the other at the pier in Jersey
City, New Jersey, and deliveries were made accordingly.
Respondent asked the state courts to rule that the taxing act did not apply to these transactions, particularly
because the enabling statute expressly prohibits the city
from imposing a tax upon "any transaction originating
and/or consummated outside the territorial limits of the
City." See Matter of Gunther's Sons v. McGoldrick,

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

HUGHES, C. J., dissenting.

279 N. Y. 148; 18 N. E. 2d 12. This question the state
courts left unanswered, the Court of Appeals resting its
decision wholly on the constitutional ground.
Upon the remand of this cause for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this decision, the state court will be
free to decide the state question, and the remand will be
without prejudice to the further presentation to this
Court of any federal question remaining undecided here,
if the state court shall determine that the taxing statute
is applicable.
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES,

dissenting.

The pressure of mounting Outlays has led the States
to seek new sources of revenue, and we have gone far in
sustaining state power to tax property and transactions
subject to their jurisdiction despite incidental or indirect
effects upon interstate commerce. But hitherto we have
also maintained the principle that the States cannot lay a
direct tax upon that commerce. In the instant case, the
Court of Appeals of New York has decided unanimously
that the tax as here applied is such a tax and goes beyond
the limit of state power. 281 N. Y. 610. See, also, Matter
of National Cash Register Co. v. Taylor, 276 N. Y. 208;
11 N. E. 2d 881. I think that the judgment should be
affirmed.
The case is one of interstate commerce in its most obvious form. The Berwind-White Company is a Pennsylvania corporation engaged in mining coal in that State.
It has a sales office in New York. Its coal is mined
from two veins known as "B Seam" and "C Prime Seam."
The coal is sold to New York consumers for plants and
steamships. The contracts of sale call for coal from the
seller's mines in Pennsylvania, most of it being of the "B
Seam" sort. The contracts are generally for a specified
period, orders being given as coal is needed. The pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

chasers notify the mining company of their requests,
whereupon the coal is mined to meet the orders, two days
being allowed for mining and five for transportation.
The coal is transported from the mines by railroad to a
pier in Jersey City where the seller's barges take the coal
and bring it alongside the purchasers' plant or steamship
where delivery is made, the purchasers doing the unloading. There were two purchasers who took delivery
outside New York.
The tax is two per cent of the entire purchase price.
The Court of Appeals has described the tax as "two per
cent upon receipts from every sale of tangible personal
property sold within the City." Matter of Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. McGoldrick, 279 N. Y. 184, 187; 18 N. E.
2d 25. There can be no doubt as to the incidence of the
tax in this instance. The Comptroller of the City has
assessed the tax against the seller, the Berwind-White
Company. The statute requires the seller, under penalty,
to file a return of its sales and to pay the tax. To enforce
the payment, the property of the seller may be levied
upon under a Comptroller's warrant. It is the tax so
laid that the City now demands. In the Matter of Atlas
Television Co., 273 N. Y. 51, 57, 58; 6 N. E. 2d 94, the
Court of Appeals held that the contention that the seller
was required only to collect the tax as the agent of the
City could not be sustained and hence it was decided that
in case of the seller's insolvency the City was entitled
to priority of payment. The court said: "The duty of
payment to the city is laid upon the vendor, not the purchaser. His liability is not measured by the amount
actually collected from the purchaser but by the receipts
required to be included in such return. (§ 6.) He must
pay the tax even if failure to collect is due to no fault
of his own." This statement was repeated in Matter of
Merchants Refrigerating Co. v. Taylor, 275 N. Y. 113,
118; 9 N. E. 2d 799, and while it was there said that the

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

Atlas case did not hold that the sales tax was "imposed"
on the vendor, still the court again ruled that the vendor
"is under a duty to pay the tax to the city regardless of
whether or not the vendor collects it from the purchaser."
Id., p. 124. If the vendor must pay the tax whether or
not he can recoup the amount from the purchaser, and
the tax, as here, is assessed against the vendor, it would
seem inadmissible to defend the tax upon the ground that
it is a tax upon the purchaser. From any point of view,
the tax now contested is laid upon interstate sales.
In confiding to Congress the power to regulate interstate commerce, the aim was to provide a free national
market,-to pull down and prevent the re-erection of
state barriers to the free intercourse between the people
of the States. That free intercourse was deemed, and has
proved, to be essential to our national economy. It
should not be impaired. As we recently said in Baldwin
v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, 522: "Imposts and duties upon
interstate commerce are placed beyond the power of a
state, without the mention of an exception, by the provision committing commerce of that order to the power
of the Congress. . . . 'It is the established doctrine of
this court that a state may not, in any form or under any
guise, directly burden the prosecution of interstate
business'."
Undoubtedly the problem of maintaining the proper
balance between state and national power has been a most
difficult one. We have recognized the power of the State
to meet local exigencies in protecting health and safety
and preventing fraud, as, for example, in the case of
quarantine, pilotage and inspection laws, although interstate or foreign commerce is involved; that is, until Congress in the exercise of its paramount authority displaces
such local requirements.1 We have also recognized the
'See cases collected in Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 403-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

power of the State to tax property subject to its jurisdiction although the property has come from another State,
when it is found that interstate commerce has ended and
that the property has become a part of the common mass
within the State. We have sustained the authority of
the State to impose occupation taxes when they were
deemed to be so measured or apportioned as to relate appropriately to the privilege of transacting an intrastate
business. The application of these principles has led to
close distinctions.2 But that fact would seem to present
no good reason for sweeping away the protection of interstate commerce where the State lays a direct tax upon that
commerce as in this case.
We have said in a long line of decisions, that the State
cannot tax interstate commerce either by laying the tax
upon the business which constitutes such commerce or
the privilege of engaging in it, or upon the receipts, as
such, derived from it.' The same principle has been
declared in recent cases. In Fisher'sBlend Station v. Tax
Commission, 297 U. S.650, 655, we said: "As appellant's
income is derived from interstate commerce, the tax,
measured by appellant's gross income, is of a type which
' See Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 254257.
'Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.352, 400; State Freight Tax Case,
15 Wall. 232; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489;
Philadelphia& Southern Mail S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326;
Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.640; McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104;
Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S.289; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S.217; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Meyer v. Wells,
Fargo & Co., 223 U. S.298; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389;
Crew-Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S.292; Sonneborn Bros. v.
Cureton, 262 U. S.506, 515; Fisher's Blend Station v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S.650, 655; Puget Sound Co. v. State Tax Commission,
302 U. S.90; Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S.307,
311;Gwin, White & Princev, Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 439.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

HUGHES, C. J., dissenting.

has long been held to be an unconstitutional burden on
interstate commerce." There, a state occupation tax
upon the gross receipts of the owner of a radio station
from broadcasting programs to listeners within and beyond the State was held invalid. It was said to be
enough that the tax was levied on gross receipts from
the proprietor's "entire operations, which include interstate commerce." Id., p. 656. In Western Live Stock v.
Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, a tax on the gross receipts from the sale of advertising by a trade journal
was sustained beiause in the last analysis the tax, like
that upon the privilege of manufacturing within the
State, was upon the carrying on of a local business in the
preparing, printing and publishing a magazine. Id., p.
258. Soon after, we held in Adams Manufacturing Co. v.
Storen, 304 U. S.307, 311, that a state tax could not be
constitutionally applied to the gross receipts derived by
an Indiana corporation in interstate commerce through
the sale of its products manufactured in Indiana to customers in other States. And, but a year ago, in Gwin,
White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S.434, 435, 436,
438, we held invalid a state tax measured by the gross
receipts from the business of marketing fruit shipped in
interstate commerce from the State of production to
places in other States where the sales and deliveries were
made and the proceeds collected. If the question now
before us is controlled by precedent, the result would
seem to be clear.
In relation to the present transaction, it would hardly
be contended that New York could tax the transportation of the coal from Pennsylvania to New York or a
contract for that transportation. But the movement of
the coal from the one State to the other was definitely
required by the contracts of sale and these sales must be
regarded as an essential part of the commercial inter-

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
HUGHES, C. J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

course contemplated by the commerce clause. Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 188. The tax on the gross receipts
of the seller from these sales was manifestly an imposition upon the sales themselves. Whether the tax be small
or large, it is plainly to the extent of it a burden upon
interstate commerce; and as it is imposed immediately
upon the gross receipts from that commerce, it is a direct
burden. And, as we have often said, where what is taxed
is subject to the jurisdiction of the State, the size of the
tax lies within the discretion of the State, and not of
this Court. A. Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40,
45. See, also, Alaska Fish Co. v. Smith, 255 U. S.
44, 48.
How then can the laying of such a burden upon interstate commerce be justified? It is urged that there is
a taxable event within the State. That event is said
to be the delivery of the coal. But how can that event
be deemed to be taxable by the State? The delivery is
but the necessary performance of the contract of sale.
Like the shipment from the mines, it is an integral part
of the interstate transaction. It is said that title to the
coal passes to the purchaser on delivery. But the place
where the title passes has not been regarded as the test
of the interstate character of a sale. We have frequently
decided that where a commodity is mined or manufactured in one State and in pursuance of contracts of sale
is delivered for transportation to purchasers in another
State, the mere fact that the sale is f. o. b. cars in the
seller's State and the purchaser pays the freight does not
make the sale other than interstate.' And when, as here,
the buyer in an interstate sale takes delivery in his own
'Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 520; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Clark
Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456, 465, 468; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238, 320; Santa Cruz Fruit Packing Co. v. National Labor
Relations Board, 303 U. S. 453, 463.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

State, that delivery in completion of the sale is as properly immune from state taxation as is the transportation
to the purchaser's dock or vessel. Moreover, even if it
were possible to sustain a state tax by reason of such
delivery within the State, there would still be no ground
for sustaining a tax upon the whole of the interstate
transaction of which the delivery is only a part, as in
the case of a tax upon the entire gross receipts.
Petitioner strongly insists that in substance the tax
here should be regarded as the same as a use tax the
validity of which this Court has sustained. Henneford
v. Silas Mason Co., 300 U. S.577; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Gallagher, 306 U. S. 167. But in the Henneford case,
Mr. Justice Cardozo, in speaking for the Court, was most
careful to show that the use tax was upheld because it was
imposed after interstate commerce had come to an end.
In making this distinction, the Court clearly recognized
that a tax imposed directly upon interstate commerce
would be beyond the state's power, and the tax was sustained as one upon property which had come to rest within
the State and like other property was subject to its
jurisdiction. The Court said: "The tax is not upon the
operations of interstate commerce, but upon the privilege
of use after commerce is at an end. . . . The privilege
of use is only one attribute, among many, of the bundle
of privileges that make up property or ownership." Id.,
p. 582. And later, in Puget Sound Co. v. State Tax Commission, 302 U. S. 90, 92, 94, Mr. Justice Cardozo in delivering the opinion of the Court, after showing that the
business of the company, so far as it consisted of the loading
and discharge of cargoes by longshoremen subject to its
own control, was interstate or foreign commerce, concluded that the State was "not at liberty to tax the
privilege of doing it by exacting in return therefor a
percentage of the gross receipts." He observed that "De215234 -40-5

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

cisions to that effect are many and controlling." The
fact that a use tax, sustained as a tax upon an attribute
of property which is subject to the jurisdiction of the
State, may have an incidental or indirect effect upon interstate commerce, and thus in the opinion of commentators may tend to discourage interstate transactions, is
certainly no excuse for going further and upholding the
action of States which, looking with a jealous eye upon
the freedom of - interstate commerce, attempt to lay a
direct tax upon that commerce.
The point was clearly brought out by Mr. Justice
Holmes, speaking for the Court in Galveston, H. & S. A.
Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227, when he referred to
the necessity of maintaining the distinction between taxation of property within the State, which had long been
upheld, and taxation of interstate business, which had
been condemned. He observed that "When a legislature
is trying simply to value property, it is less likely to
attempt to or effect injurious regulation than when it is
aiming directly at the receipts from interstate commerce."
Accordingly a state tax upon gross receipts which included receipts from interstate business was held invalid.
The ground most strongly asserted for sustaining the
tax in the present case is that it is nofi-discriminatory.
Undoubtedly a state tax may be bad because it is so
laid as to involve a hostile discrimination against interstate commerce. But does it follow that a State may lay
a direct tax upon interstate commerce because it is free
to tax its own commerce in a similar way? Thus, a State
may tax intrastate transportation, but it may not tax
interstate transportation. The State may tax intrastate
sales,' but can the State tax interstate sales in order to
promote its local business? It would seem to be extraWoodruff v. Parham,8 Wall. 123; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,
262 U. S. 506, 515, 516; Wiloil Corp. v. Pennsylvania,294 U. S. 169,
175.

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

ordinary if a State could escape the restriction against
direct impositions upon interstate commerce by first laying exactions upon its own trade and then insisting that
in order to make its local policy completely effective it
must be allowed to lay similar exactions upon interstate
trade. That would apparently afford a simple method
for extending state power into what has hitherto been
regarded as a forbidden field. Moreover, it may or may not
be in the interest of the State to promote domestic trade
in a given commodity. The State may seek by its taxing
scheme to restrict such trade and the mere equivalency
of a tax upon domestic business would not prevent the
injurious effect upon interstate transactions. See A. Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, supra.
So, while recognizing that a tax discriminating against
interstate commerce is necessarily invalid, it has long
been held by this Court in the interest of the constitutional freedom of that commerce that a direct tax upon
it is not saved because the same or a similar tax is laid
also upon intrastate commerce. The Court dealt specifically with that question in Robbins v. Shelby County
Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 497, saying: "Interstate
commerce cannot be taxed at all, even though the same
amount of tax should be laid on domestic commerce, or
that which is carried on solely within the state." See,
also, Cooney v. Mountain States Telephone Co., 294 U. S.
384, 393, 394. And very recently, in Adams Manufacturing Co. v. Storen, supra, p. 312, where a tax on; the
gross receipts derived from interstate sales was held invalid, we said explicitly: "The opinion of the State Supreme Court stresses the generality and nondiscriminatory character of the exaction, but it is settled that this
will not save the tax if it directly burdens interstate
commerce."
We have directed attention to a vice in imposing direct
taxes upon interstate commerce in that such taxes might

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
HUGHES, C. J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

be imposed with equal right by every State which the commerce touches. This has been observed with respect to
taxes upon gross receipts from interstate transactions. In
Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue, supra, p. 256,
we said: "The multiplication of state taxes measured by
the gross receipts from interstate transactions would
spell the destruction of interstate commerce and renew
the barriers to interstate trade which it was the object
of the commerce clause to remove." See, also, Gwin,
White & Prince v. Henneford, supra. But petitioner has
insisted that in the present case there is no danger of
multiple taxation in that New York puts its tax upon
an event which cannot occur in any other State. Of
course the delivery of the coal in New York is an event
which cannot occur in another State. Just as New York
cannot tax the shipment of coal from the mines in
Pennsylvania or the transshipment of the coal in New
Jersey, so neither Pennsylvania nor New Jersey can tax
the delivery in New York. Petitioner's argument misses
the point as to the danger of multiple taxation in relation
to interstate commerce. The shipment, the transshipment
and the delivery of the coal are but parts of a unitary
interstate transaction. They are integral parts of an
interstate sale. If, because of the delivery in New York,
that State can tax the gross receipts from the sale, why
cannot Pennsylvania by reason of the shipment of the
coal in that State tax the gross receipts there? That
would not be difficult, as the seller is a Pennsylvania corporation and, in fact, in many, if not in most, instances,
the purchase price of the goods shipped to New York
is there received. The point is not that the delivery in
New York is an event which cannot be taxed by other
States, but that the authority of New York to impose a
tax on that delivery cannot properly be recognized without also recognizing the authority of other States to tax

McGOLDRICK v. BERWIND-WHITE CO.
33

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

the parts of the interstate transaction which take place
within their borders. If New York can tax the delivery,
Pennsylvania can tax the shipment and New Jersey the
transshipment. And the latter States, respectively,
would be as much entitled to tax the gross receipts from
the sales as would New York. Even if it were assumed
that the gross receipts from the interstate sales could
be apportioned so that each State could tax such portion
of the receipts as could be deemed to relate to the part
of the transaction within its territory, still this would not
help New York here, as there has been no attempt at
apportionment. The taxation of the gross receipts in
New York, on any appropriate view of what pertains to
the interstate sales, would seem clearly to involve the
danger of multiple taxation to which we have adverted
in recent decisions.
Doubtless much can be said as to the desirability of a
comprehensive system of taxation through the cobperation of the Union and the States so as to avoid the differentiations which beset the application of the commerce
clause and thus to protect both state and national governments by a just and general scheme for raising revenues.
However important such a policy may be, it is not a
matter for this Court. We have the duty of maintaining the immunity of interstate commerce as contemplated
by the Constitution. That immunity still remains an
essential buttress of the Union; and a free national
market, so far as it can be preserved without violence
to state power over the subjects within state jurisdiction,
is not less now than heretofore a vital concern of the
national economy.
The tax as here applied is open to the same objection
as a tariff upon the entrance of the coal into the State
of New York, or a state tax upon the privilege of doing
an interstate business, and in my view it cannot be sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioner.

309 U. S.

tained without abandoning principles long established
and a host of precedents soundly based.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

join in this opinion.
McGOLDRICK, COMPTROLLER OF THE CITY OF
NEW YORK, v. FELT & TARRANT MFG. CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 45.

Argued January 2, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

Sales of merchandise for which orders were taken within the City
of New York, subject to approval by the vendors in other States,
and delivery of wfiich, following such approval, was made to purchasers in that city, either by direct interstate shipment, or by interstate shipment to the vendor's New York City agency and delivery by the agent to the purchaser after inspection, tests, and
adjustments,-held constitutionally subject to the New York City
sales tax, on the authority of McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal
Mining Co., ante, p. 33. P. 76.
279 N. Y. 678, 280 id. 688; 281 id. 608, 669, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 307 U. S. 620, to review judgments setting
aside tax levies. See also, 254 App. Div. 246; 255 id. 961;
4 N. Y. S. 2d 615; 8 N. Y. S. 2d 667.

Mr. William C. Chanler, with whom Messrs. Sol Charles
Levine, Edmund B. Hennefeld, and Jerome R. Hellerstein were on the briefs, for petitioner.
A state tax is void under the commerce clause only if in
some way it interferes with the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States. That is a question of fact. Each statute must be judged upon its own
facts. Hump Hairpin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290,
with No. 474, McGoldrick, Comptroller of the City of
New York, v. A. H. DuGrenier,Inc., et al., also on writ of certiorari,
308 U. S. 545, to the Supreme Court of New York.
*Together

