OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case.

309 U. S.

mission used as evidence certain data and reports in its
files without permitting the respondent, as intervenor before the Commission, the opportunity of inspecting them.
The Commission disavows the use of such material as
evidence in the cause and the Court of Appeals has found
the disavowal veracious and sufficient. We are not disposed to disturb its conclusion.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the decision
of this case.

THOMPSON, TRUSTEE, v. MAGNOLIA

PETROLEUM CO.
CERTIORARI

No. 481.

TO THE

ET AL.

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Argued February 28, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

In a railroad reorganization proceeding under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act in the federal court for Missouri, rights in oil underlying the right of way of the railroad in Illinois were claimed by
the trustee and by others adversely. The trustee had possession of
the right-of-way lands under claim of fee simple ownership. Held:
1. The bankruptcy court had summary jurisdiction to adjudicate the question of title. P. 481.
2. The bankruptcy court did not abuse its discretion in ordering that the underlying oil be extracted and marketed, to prevent
irreparable loss to the estate by its being drained off through wells
on adjacent lands, and that the net proceeds thereof be impounded,
pending determination as to the rightful owner. P. 482.
3..Under the circumstances, the ownership of the fee to the
right-of-way lands should be determined by the state courts of
Illinois, and the bankruptcy court should order the trustee to
proceed accordingly. P. 483.
106 F. 2d 217, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 630, to review a decree which
reversed an order of the District Court and directed dis-

THOMPSON v. MAGNOLIA CO.
478

Opinion of the Court.

missal of a petition to that court by a trustee in a
proceeding under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act.
Mr. Thomas T. Railey for petitioner.
Messrs. Craig Van Meter and Thomas H. Cobbs, with
whom Messrs. Fred H. Kelly, Wm. H. Armstrong, and
Walace Hawkins were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

A rich oil field was discovered in Illinois in 1938.
Thereupon, this dispute arose between a trustee of a railroad in reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act
(11 U. S. C. 205) and other claimants as to the legal right
to drill for and capture fugitive oil under the railroad's
right of way traversing the newly discovered field. The
trustee asserts fee simple ownership of the right of way
lands with consequent right to reduce the underlying oil
to possession. Respondents deny the trustee's alleged
title or that he has any interest in the land beyond a
mere easement-a limited right to use the surface for
railroad purposes only. They allege that ownership of
the fee is in others, from whom they have obtained oil
leases. This determinative question of fee simple ownership can be decided only by interpretation, under Illinois law, of instruments granting the railroad its right
of way.
The questions here are whether the bankruptcy court
has summary jurisdiction to adjudicate ownership of the
right of way lands, and whether that court abused its
discretion in ordering the fugitive oil captured and its
proceeds impounded pending adjudication of the ownership.
Petitioner is trustee of the Missouri-Illinois Railroad
Co., a subsidiary of the Missouri-Pacific Railroad Co.,
in process of reorganization in the same proceeding with
the parent company in the United States District Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

for the Eastern District of Missouri. The trustee petitioned the bankruptcy court ".

.

. for determination of

title and for advice and directions respecting certain proposed oil operations on right-of-way near Salem, Illinois."
And his petition alleged that the right of way lands had
been "fenced and used by Trustee and his predecessors
in interest without interruption, and with actual visible
and exclusive possession acquired under claim of title
inconsistent with the claims of title of any other owner
for at least twenty years prior to institution of these proceedings"; that by reason of this adverse possession and
various conveyances and decrees of record, the trustee had
title to the lands and a right to the oil thereunder; that
numerous wells had been dug in close proximity to the
right of way and without prompt action to remove the
oil under the right of way it would be drained into wells
on adjacent lands and its value forever lost to the stockholders and creditors of the railroad. The prayer sought
notice to claimants of rights to the oil to appear and show
cause why they should not be "estopped and enjoined
from asserting any further title in and to the land ...
upon which said right-of-way is located or to the mineral,
oil or gas deposits in and under . . . [the] right-of-way

or extracted therefrom"; and that, pending "determination of adverse claims to title," the trustee be authorized
to have wells drilled, oil captured and sold, and the proceeds, less cost of production, impounded and held for
the account of the rightful owner as might be thereafter
determined by the bankruptcy court.
Although they admitted that the railroad "had been in
possession of the . . . premises" using them for right of

way and tracks, respondents denied both that the trustee owned the fee and that the railroad had been, or that
the trustee was, in adverse possession of the oil and other
minerals under the right of way.
The bankruptcy court found that the trustee was in
"actual possession of the property . . . ., under assertion

THOMPSON v. MAGNOLIA CO.
478

Opinion of the Court.

of claim to fee simple title thereto"; that the court accordingly had jurisdiction; and that immediate action
was necessary "to conserve the oil supply underlying the
property for the benefit of the parties in interest as their
rights, title, and interest thereto may hereafter be determined by this Court." The trustee was therefore directed
to provide for wells, production and sale of oil, with the
proceeds-less expenses-to be impounded pending adjudication of ownership.
Upon consideration of Illinois law, which admittedly
must govern, the Court of Appeals reversed with instructions to dismiss the trustee's petition, concluding that, as
interpreted under Illinois law, the instruments relied on
by the trustee, conveyed an easement only and that the
trustee's possession of the right of way lands under an
erroneous claim of fee simple ownership was not such
possession of the oil and gas as to give the bankruptcy
court summary jurisdiction to determine fee simple ownership.1 Conveyances of rights of way in Illinois substantially similar to those here in dispute have been held by
the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in which
Illinois is located, to convey a fee simple title under that
state's law.2 Because of this conflict and the importance
of the question of the bankruptcy court's asserted summary jurisdiction, we granted certiorari.8
First. Bankruptcy courts have summary jurisdiction to
adjudicate controversies relating to property over which
they have actual or constructive possession. And the test
of this jurisdiction is not title in but possession by the
bankrupt at the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.4 Here, the trustee succeeded to the physical pos'106 F. 2d 217.
Carter Oil Co. v. Welker, 112 F. 2d 299.
'308 U. S.630.
'Harris v. Avery Brundage Co., 305 U. S. 160, 162, 163 and notes
4, 5 and 6.
215234°-40-

31

-OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

session, custody and control of the right of way lands
which the railroad had enjoyed at the time of bankruptcy.
In fact, however, no one had, when the petition was filed,
physical possession of the fugitive oil apart from the
lands under which it lay. The Supreme Court of Illinois
has said, "The grant of oil and gas is a grant of such oil
and gas as the grantee may find, and he is not vested with
any estate in the oil or gas until it is actually found." '
And this entire controversy can only be resolved by solution of the primary question of fee simple ownership.
The parties agree that if ownership of the right of way
lands is in the trustee he has the right to capture the
underlying oil, and if not, that the trustee has no such
right. Thus, the right to the disputed oil necessarily
hinges upon where the ownership of the fee to these lands
lies. And possession of those lands under claim of fee
simple ownership by the railroad and later by the trustee was an adequate basis for the District Court's summary jurisdiction. As previously determined in litigation involving another aspect of this same reorganization,
the jurisdiction thus acquired by the bankruptcy court
"extends . . . to the adjudication of questions respecting
the title." Ex parte Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610, 616.
Second. We are of opinion that it was not an abuse of
discretion for the bankruptcy court to authorize the
trustee to protect all interests-so far as it appeared
possible to do so-by preserving the oil, from waste and
depletion, through its extraction and sale with the net
proceeds to be impounded until final determination of
the controversy over title to the right of way lands.
The verified petition and supporting evidence offered
a basis for the District Court's finding that such steps
were necessary to protect the estate's possible interest
in the oil under the right of way. No other method has
been suggested whereby such protection against ir'Poe v. Ulrey, 233 Il. 56, 62; 84 N. E. 46, 48.

THOMPSON v. MAGNOLIA CO.
478

Opinion of the Court.

reparable loss to the estate of the wandering and vagrant
oil 6 could have been better afforded. The ". . . malleable processes of courts in bankruptcy give assurance of
a remedy that can be moulded and adjusted to the needs
of the occasion." Steelman v.. All Continent Co., 301
U. S. 278, 290.
Third. A court of bankruptcy has an exclusive and
nondelegable control over the administration of an estate
in its possession. 7 But the proper exercise of that control may, where the interests of the estate and the parties
will best be served, lead the bankruptcy court to consent
to submission to state courts of particular controversies
involving unsettled questions of state property law and
arising in the course of bankruptcy administration.8
And, under the circumstances of this case, we conclude
that it is desirable to have the litigation proceed in the
state courts of Illinois.' An order to the trustee to proceed in the Illinois courts for a decision on the ownership
of the fee to the right of way lands will be comparable
to one in which the bankruptcy court, preserving the
status quo the while, orders a trustee to determine in a
plenary state court suit the legal right to property
alleged by the trustee to have been fraudulently transferred by the bankrupt."e Decision with which the
'See Poe v. Ulrey, supra, 62.
'Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & T. Co., 282 U. S. 734.
8
Id., 739; see, In re Schulte United, Inc., 49 F. 2d 264; see, e. g.,
Foust v. Munson Lines, 299 U. S. 77 (bankruptcy court's denial of
permission for suit in admiralty against debtor in 77B, held abuse
of discretion); Texas v. Donoghue, 302 U. S. 284 (refusal of permission for a State to try in a state court its claim-based on alleged
forfeiture-to oil held by trustee in 77B, abuse of discretion).
5 Remington on Bankruptcy, 4th Ed., §§ 2045, 2370.
'Cf. Ex parte Baldwin, supra, 619.
"oCf. Steelman v. All Continent Co., 301 U. S. 278. See Scott v.
Gillespie, 103 Kan. 745; 176 P. 132, cert. den. 249 U. S. 606 (trustee

ordered into state court for construction of will to determine estate,
if any, taken thereunder by bankrupt).

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
309 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

federal court of bankruptcy is here faced calls for interpretation of instruments of conveyance in accordance
-with Illinois law. Neither statutes nor decisions of
Illinois have been pointed to which are clearly applicable.
And the difficulties of determining just what should be
the decision under the law of that State are persuasively
indicated by the different results reached by the two
Circuit Courts of Appeal that have attempted the determination. Unless the matter is referred to the state
courts, upon subsequent decision by the Supreme Court
of Illinois it may appear that rights in local property
of parties to this proceeding have-by the accident of
federal jurisdiction-been determined contrary to the
law of the State, which in such matters is supreme. 1
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed except
insofar as it provides for adjudication of the disputed
ownership in the bankruptcy court. The cause is remanded to the District Court with instructions to modify
its order so as to provide appropriate submission of the
question of fee simple ownership of the right of way to
the IllinOis state courts.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no

part in the decision

of this case.

" Cf. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64.

