CARPENTER v. WABASH RY. CO.
Syllabus.

18

ing of the Fifth Amendment. The Circuit Court of Appeals took that view, holding that petitioners had sustained merely "consequential damages from the deflection
of waters by reason of structures lawfully constructed
in aid of navigation." Petitioners, as we have said, combat this ruling. We do not undertake to review it or the
authorities cited by the parties and the Government in
that relation, for petitioners' claim, resting upon the
theory that there has been a "taking," has been found
untenable, and there is no contention, or basis for one,
that if the contractor was acting for the Government in
prosecuting its work in aid of navigation without the
taking of property, the contractor would be subject to the
asserted liability.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in reversing that of the District Court is affirmed but upon the
grounds stated in this opinion.
Affirmed.

CARPENTER v. WABASH RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI

No. 230.

ET AL.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Argued January 9, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.

1. Applicable legislation enacted while the case was pending for
review will be enforced by the appellate court. P. 26.
2. The amendment of ยง 77 (n) of the Bankruptcy Act, approved
Aug. 11, 1939, and providing that ". . . in equity receiverships
of railroad corporations now or hereafter pending in any court
of the United States, claims for personal injuries to employees of
a railroad corporation ... shall be preferred and paid out of
the assets of such railroad corporation as operating expenses of
such railroad," held applicable in this case and within the power of
Congress.

P. 27.

3. Claims of superior equities may be accorded priority of payment from the earnings of a railroad in an equity receivership,
"although they arose prior to the receivership. Congress
may

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

24

Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

determine reasonable classification of claims as entitled to priority
because of superior equities in receivership cases in the federal

courts. P. 27.
4. In an equity railroad receivership case, where the District Court
denied a petition to intervene with a claim of priority of payment for a judgment for personal injuries recovered before the
equity proceeding was begun, held that, inasmuch as the Act of
Aug. 11, 1939, supra, is explicit and mandatory and as the District
Court has no discretion to act contrary to its terms, there is no
occasion to remand to that court in order that it may reconsider
the claim under that Act and decide whether the intervention
should be allowed at the stage reached by the proceedings; but that
the court should be directed to allow the claim in accordance with
the statute. P. 29.
103 F. 2d 996, vacated.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 539, to review affirmance of a

judgment of the District Court which denied a petition to
intervene in a railroad receivership case. The review here
was limited to the right of the petitioner to intervene in
order to assert priority of a claim based on personal
injuries.
Mr. 'Hyman G. Stein, with whom Messrs. Mark D.

Eagleton and Roberts P. Elam were on the brief, for

petitioner.
Mr. Arthur A. Gammell, with whom Messrs. Charles

Nagel and Allen C. Orrick were on the brief, for respondents. Mr. Thomas W. White was on a brief for Central
Hanover Bank & Trust Co., Trustee, and Mr. Thomer

Hall was on a brief for Wabash Railway Co. et al.,
respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.

In February, 1931, petitioner recovered a judgment in
the state court of Missouri for $15,000 against the Wabash

Railway Company for personal injuries sustained in

CARPENTER v. WABASH RY. CO.
23

Opinion of the Court.

the course of his employment by that Company. On
appeal, the judgment reduced to $10,000 was affirmed.
In December, 1931, on a complaint in equity brought
by a creditor of the Wabash Railway Company in the
federal court in Missouri, setting forth its financial difficulties and that its undisputed liabilities exceeded the
actual value of its assets, receivers were appointed. Suits
brought by mortgage* trustees were consolidated with
the first suit. A special master was appointed to take
proof of claims and it appears that in January, 1936, the
master allowed petitioner's claim as an unsecured claim
without lien or priority.
In January, 1938, petitioner asked leave to file a petition seeking termination of the receivership on various
grounds not important here. Among other things, petitioner then alleged that the master's ruling was erroneous
and that the claim was entitled to priority. In denying
that petition, the District Court considered this contention and held that the "status and classification of petitioner's claim as an unsecured claim which is not entitled
to any lien or priority of payment over any other unsecured claim" had been "correctly and finally determined
in this cause" and that petitioner was "estopped from
asserting a claim for preference and priority of payment."
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree of the
District Court and in doing so passed upon that question.
The court said that no statute of Missouri and no decisions of its courts had been shown which provided or
held that claims for personal injuries by employees were
entitled to priority as operating expenses. Considering
the contention of petitioner that the Wabash Railway
Company was an Indiana corporation operating in that
State and in Ohio and that the laws of those States accorded priority to his claim, the court thought that, even
if so, "that situation can have no effect upon the operation and effect of this Missouri judgment." The court

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

also observed that while by subsection (n) of ยง 77 of the
Bankruptcy Act claims for personal injuries to employees
of a railroad corporation are entitled to priority, that
provision applied expressly to proceedings in bankruptcy
and the present case at this stage is an equity receivership. And, apart from that, the court considered petitioner foreclosed from asserting such rights in this suit,
approving the ruling of the District Court in that respect.
103 F. 2d 996.
Petition for certiorari was filed on July 26, 1939.
Subsequently, by Act of Congress approved August 11,
1939, 53 Stat. 1406, subsection (n) of ยง 77 of the Bankruptcy Act was amended so as to apply to equity receiverships and thus to read as follows:
"In proceedings under this section, 'and in equity
receiverships of railroad corporations now or hereafter
pending in any court of the United States, claims for
personal injuries to employees of a railroad corporation,
claims of personal representatives of deceased employees
of a railroad corporation, arising under State or Federal
laws, and claims now or hereafter payable by sureties
upon supersedeas, appeal, attachment, or garnishment
bonds, executed by sureties without security, for and in
any action brought against such railroad corporation or
trustees appointed pursuant to this section, shall be preferred and paid out of the assets of such railroad corporation as operating expenses of such railroad."
Petitioner then presented a supplemental brief in support of his application for certiorari, directing our attention to this statute, and in view of the importance of the
question raised by the amendment, we granted certiorari,
limited to the question of the right of the petitioner to
intervene in order to assert priority. 308 U. S. 539.
For the present purpose, we may assume, without
deciding, that the determination of the court below was

CARPENTER v. WABASH RY. CO.
23

Opinion of the Court.

correct upon the record before it and in the light of the
law as it then stood. But it is our duty to consider the
amended statute and to decide the question in harmony
with its provisions, if found to be applicable. The controlling rule was thus stated by Chief Justice Marshall in
United States v. Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch 103, 110:
"It is in the general true that the province of an appellate court is only to inquire whether a judgment when
rendered was erroneous or not. But if, subsequent to the
judgment, and before the decision of the appellate court,
a law intervenes and positively changes the rule which
governs, the law must be obeyed, or its obligation denied.
In such a case the court must decide according to
existing laws, and if it be necessary to set aside a judgment, rightful when rendered, but which cannot be
affirmed but in violation of law, the judgment must be set
aside."
See, also, Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 183 U. S.
115, 120; Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, 302; Gulf, C. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U. S. 503, 506; Watts, Watts
& Co. v. Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, 21.
We are of the opinion that the amended statute is applicable to this proceeding. The statute applies to "equity
receiverships of railroad corporations now . . . pending
in any court of the United States." This is such a case.
The statute applies to "claims for personal injuries to
employees of a railroad corporation." This is such a
claim. The statute says that a claim of that sort "shall
be preferred and paid out of the assets of such railroad
corporation as operating expenses of such railroad." This
is a direct requirement governing the action of the court
in this cause.
We have no doubt that Congress has constitutional
power to impose this requirement. We have held that
earnings, while a railroad is in possession of the court and

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

operated by its receivers, "are not necessarily and exclusively the property of the mortgagees" but are subject to the payment of claims which have superior equities
as these may be found to exist. Fosdick v. Schall,
99 U. S. 235; Hale v. Frost, 99 U. S. 389, 392. Claims
having such equities may be accorded priority in payment although they arose prior to the receivership.
Miltenberger v. Logansport Railway Co., 106 U. S.
286; Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776; Union Trust
Co. v. Illinois Midland Ry. Co., 117 U. S. 434. It is
manifest that the reasonable classification of claims as
entitled to priority because of superior equities may be
the subject of determination by Congress in providing
for the distribution of assets in bankruptcy proceedings.
See Kuehner v. Irving Trust Co., 299 U. S. 445, 451, 452.
In this view, the provision of subsection (n) of ยง 77 of
the Bankruptcy Act, as it stood prior to the amendment
of August 11, 1939, was sustained by the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit in Wise v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co. (90 F. 2d 312) with respect to certain
unsecured surety bonds, and by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Eighth Circuit with respect to claims for
injuries to railroad employees. Central Hanover Bank &
Trust Co. v. Williams, 95 F. 2d 210; Thompson v. Siratt,
95 F. 2d 214.
We see no ground for a different conclusion with respect to the power of Congress to enact the amendment
in relation to the distribution of assets in the case of an
equity receivership. And the fact that the provision as
to the latter is included in a section of the bankruptcy
statute does not derogate from its controlling authority as
an expression of the will of Congress. The Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit has recently held this
provision as to equity receiverships to be applicable and
valid in relation to claims for personal injuries sustained by employees of this railroad corporation. Ameri-

CARPENTER v. WABASH RY. CO.
23

Opinion of the Court.

can Surety Co. v. Wabash Railway Co., 107 F. 2d 685.
We think the conclusion is sound.
It is urged in opposition to petitioner's contention that
unless and until the District Court upon proper application has passed upon the question as to extending the
time for filing petitioner's claim under the amended
statute, the question of its priority is not properly before
this Court; that petitioner has not asked the District Court
to pass upon that question in the light of the amended statute. But when the Act of August 11, 1939, was passed,
the case was before this Court upon petition for certiorari,
which has been granted, and in order properly to dispose
of the case we are bound, as already stated, to consider
and apply the amended statute. Then, the argument is
pressed that, at least, we should remand the case to the
District Court in order that it may determine whether the
claim for preference and payment under the amendment
should be entertained. It is said that such applications
may be considered in the light of existing circumstances,
or of the stage which the proceedings have reached, as,
for example, in relation to steps which may have been
taken in carrying out plans for reorganization.
We find no provision in the statute for the exercise of
such a discretion by the District Court where the proceedings to which the statute refers are pending and the
claims are within the statute. There is no suggestion
that the present proceeding had been terminated prior to
the enactment of the amendment or that it is not now
pending. The statute is explicit and mandatory and the
District Court has no discretion to act contrary to its
terms. The statute says that the described claims "shall
be preferred and paid out of the assets of such railroad
corporation as operating expenses of such railroad."
Petitioner's claim is within the class described and should
be preferred and paid accordingly.

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

309 U. S.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is vacated and the cause is remanded to the District Court
with directions to allow petitioner's claim in accordance
with the statutory provision.
Judgment vacated.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA v. PENNSYLVANIA PUBLIC UTILITY
COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 252. Argued January 10, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.
1. When the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has refused appeal
from an order of the Superior Court affirming a rate order of the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, an appeal to this Court
is from the judgment of the Superior Court. P. 31.
2. In the absence of other constitutional objections, it can not be
said that a state court denies due process when on appropriate
hearing it determines that there is evidence to sustain a finding
of the violation of state law with respect to the conduct of local
affairs. P. 32.
3. Where there is no claim of confiscation, the state authority is
competent to establish intrastate telephone rates and in so doing
to decide what constitutes an unreasonable discrimination with
respect to intrastate traffic. P. 32.

APPEAL from 135 Pa. Super. Ct. 218; 5 A. 2d 410, dismissed for want of a substantial federal question.
Mr. Benjamin 0. Frick, with whom Messrs. William H.
Lamb and E. Everett Mather, Jr. were on the brief, for
appellant.
Messrs. Claude T. Reno, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, A. Jere Cresko]f, and Harry M. Schowalter were
on a brief for appellee.

