30

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

309 U. S.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is vacated and the cause is remanded to the District Court
with directions to allow petitioner's claim in accordance
with the statutory provision.
Judgment vacated.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA v. PENNSYLVANIA PUBLIC UTILITY
COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 252. Argued January 10, 1940.-Decided January 29, 1940.
1. When the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has refused appeal
from an order of the Superior Court affirming a rate order of the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, an appeal to this Court
is from the judgment of the Superior Court. P. 31.
2. In the absence of other constitutional objections, it can not be
said that a state court denies due process when on appropriate
hearing it determines that there is evidence to sustain a finding
of the violation of state law with respect to the conduct of local
affairs. P. 32.
3. Where there is no claim of confiscation, the state authority is
competent to establish intrastate telephone rates and in so doing
to decide what constitutes an unreasonable discrimination with
respect to intrastate traffic. P. 32.

APPEAL from 135 Pa. Super. Ct. 218; 5 A. 2d 410, dismissed for want of a substantial federal question.
Mr. Benjamin 0. Frick, with whom Messrs. William H.
Lamb and E. Everett Mather, Jr. were on the brief, for
appellant.
Messrs. Claude T. Reno, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, A. Jere Cresko]f, and Harry M. Schowalter were
on a brief for appellee.

BELL TEL. CO. v. UTILITY COMM'N.
Opinion of the Court.

30

By leave of Court, Messrs. John E. Benton and Clyde
S. Bailey filed a brief on behalf of the National Association of Railroad & Utilities Commissioners, as amicus
curiae, urging affirmance.
PER CURIAM.

The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, by order
of March 15, 1938, required appellant, The Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, to revise its intrastate
toll rates for distances exceeding 36 miles so as to conform to rates charged by the American Telephone &
Telegraph Company for comparable distances for interstate services. The Commission found, after full hearing,
that the rates charged for long distance service in Pennsylvania were higher than the interstate rates for the same
facilities for a like or greater distance, and constituted an
unreasonable discrimination against intrastate patrons in
violation of ยง 304 of the Public Utility Law of Pennsylvania of May 28, 1937, P. L. 1053. On appeal, the
Superior Court of Pennsylvania affirmed the order. 135
Pa. Super. Ct. 218; 5 A. 2d 410. The Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania refused appeal. The case comes here on
appeal from the judgment of the Superior Court. See
PennsylvaniaRailroad Co. v. Public Service Commission,
250 U. S. 566.
Appellant expressly disclaimed below, and also here,
raising the question of confiscation. Its contentions are
(1) that the Commission's order is wholly without support in the evidence and thus constitutes a denial of due
process contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment; (2) that
the order based on discrimination only, and prescribing
rates not found to be reasonable and depriving appellant
of considerable revenue, is arbitrary and hence a denial of
due process; and (3) that the order is a regulation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

interstate rates and imposes a direct burden upon interstate commerce.
As to the first contention, it appears that the state
court heard the appeal judicially and decided that there
was evidence justifying the finding of the Commission
of unreasonable discrimination in the transaction of its
intrastate business. In the absence of other constitutional objections, it cannot be said that a state court
denies due process when on appropriate hearing it determines that there is evidence to sustain a finding of the
violation of state law with respect to the conduct of local
affairs. The contention that such a decision is erroneous
does not present a federal question. Arrowsmith v.
Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194, 196; Bonner v. Gorman, 213
U. S. 86, 91; American Railway Express Co. v. Kentucky,
273 U. S. 260, 273.
As to the second contention, where there is no claim of
confiscation, the state authority is competent to establish
intrastate rates and in so doing to decide what constitutes
an unreasonable discrimination with respect to intrastate traffic. See Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,
116 U. S. 307, 325; PortlandRailway, L. & P. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 229 U. S. 397, 410; Los Angeles Gas
Co. v. Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 304, 305;
West Ohio Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 294
U. S. 63, 70.
Finally, it appears that the Commission's order related
exclusively to intrastate traffic and that there was no attempt to regulate interstate rates.
The appeal is dismissed for want of a substantial federal question.
Dismissed.

