HELVERING v. CLIFFORD.

331

Syllabus.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. CLIFFORD.
CERTIORARI

No. 383.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Argued February 5, 1940.-Decided February 26, 1940.

1. A husband who declared himself trustee of certain securities for
the term of five years, to pay to his wife the income accruing during
that period, but retained in himself the right to accumulate income,
and, with insignificant exceptions, the complete control over the
principal fund-its conversion, investment, reinvestment, etc.-and
the reversion of the corpus at the end of the term, may properly be found by the federal taxing authorities to be owner of the
fund, within the intent of § 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1934,
notwithstanding the trust, and taxable on the trust income as part
of his personal income. P. 335.
Where the benefits directly or indirectly retained blend so imperceptibly with the normal concepts of full ownership, it can not
be said that the triers of fact committed reversible error when
they found that the husband was the owner of the corpus for the
purposes of § 22 (a). P. 336.
2. The broad language of § 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1934 indicates the purpose of Congress to use the full measure of its taxing
power within the definable categories specified therein. P. 337.
3. Whether the creator of a trust may still be treated under § 22 (a)
as the owner of the corpus, is not determined by technicalities of
the law of trusts and conveyances, but must depend on analysis
of the terms of the trust and on all the circumstances attendant
on its creation and operation. P. 334.
Where the grantor is the trustee, and the beneficiaries members
of his family group, special scrutiny is necessary, lest what is in
reality but one economic unit be increased to two or more by
devices which, though valid under state law, are not conclusive
under § 22 (a) of the Revenue Act. P. 335.
4. The fact that Congress made specific provision in § 166 of the
Revenue Act of 1934 for revocable trusts but failed to adopt a
Treasury recommendation that similar specific treatment should be
given income from short term trusts, did not subtract the latter
from § 22 (a). P. 337.
105 F. 2d 586, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 542, to review a judgment which
reversed a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals (38
B. T. A. 1532), sustaining a deficiency assessment.

Mr. Warner W. Gardner, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, L. W. Post, and Richard H. Demuth were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas P. Helmey, with whom Mr. F. H. Stinchfield was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1934 respondent declared himself trustee of certain
securities which he owned. All net income from the
trust was to be held for the "exclusive benefit" of respondent's wife. The trust was for a term of five years,
except that it would terminate earlier on the death of
either respondent or his wife. On termination of the
trust the entire corpus was to go to respondent, while all
"accrued or undistributed net income" and "any proceeds from the investment of such net income" was to be
treated as property owned absolutely by the wife. During the continuance of the trust respondent was to pay
over to his wife the whole or such part of the net income
as he in his "absolute discretion" might determine. And
during that period he had full power (a) to exercise all
voting powers incident to the trusteed shares of stock;
(b) to "sell, exchange, mortgage, or pledge" any of the
securities under the declaration of trust "whether as part
of the corpus or principal thereof or as investments or
proceeds and any income therefrom, upon such terms
and for such consideration" as respondent in his "absolute discretion may deem fitting"; (c) to invest "any
cash or money in the trust estate or any income therefrom" by loans, secured or unsecured, by deposits in

HELVERING v. CLIFFORD.
331

Opinion of the Court.

banks, or by purchase of securities or other personal property "without restriction" because of their "speculative
character" or "rate of return" or any "laws pertaining
to the investment of trust funds"; (d) to collect all income; (e) to compromise, etc., any claims held by him as
trustee; (f) to hold any property in the trust estate in
the names of "other persons or in my own name as an
individual" except as otherwise provided. Extraordinary cash dividends, stock dividends, proceeds from the
sale of unexercised subscription rights, or any enhancement, realized or not, in the value of the securities were
to be treated as principal, not income. An exculpatory
clause purported to protect him from all losses except
those occasioned by his "own wilful and deliberate"
breach of duties as trustee. And finally it was provided
that neither the principal nor any future or accrued income should be liable for the debts of the wife; and that
the wife could not transfer, encumber, or anticipate any
interest in the trust or any income therefrom prior to
actual payment thereof to her.
It was stipulated that while the "tax effects" of this
trust were considered by respondent they were not the
"sole consideration" involved in his decision to set it
up, as by this and other gifts he intended to give "security and economic independence" to his wife and children.
It was also stipulated that respondent's wife had substantial income of her own from other sources; that there
was no restriction on her use of the trust income, all of
which income was placed in her personal checking account, intermingled with her other funds, and expended
by her on herself, her children and relatives; that the
trust was not designed to relieve respondent from liability for family or household expenses and that after execution of the trust he paid large sums from his personal
funds for such purposes.
Respondent paid a federal gift tax on this transfer.
During the year 1934 all income from the trust was dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

tributed to the wife who included it in her individual
return for that year. The Commissioner, however, determined a deficiency in respondent's return for that year
on the theory that income from the trust was taxable to
him. The Board of Tax Appeals sustained that redetermination. 38 B. T. A. 1532. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed. 105 F. 2d 586. We granted certiorari
because of the importance to the revenue of the use of
such short term trusts in the reduction of surtaxes.
Sec. 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 680,
includes among "gross income" all "gains, profits, and
income derived . . . from professions, vocations, trades,
businesses, commerce, or sales, or dealings in property,
whether real or personal, growing out of the ownership
or use of or interest in such property; also from interest,
rent, dividends, securities, or the transaction of any
business carried on for gain or profit, or gains or profits
and income derived from any source whatever." The
broad sweep of this language indicates the purpose of
Congress to use the full measure of its taxing power
within those definable categories. Cf. Helvering v. Midland Mutual Life Insurance Co., 300 U. S. 216. Hence
our construction of the statute should be consonant with
that purpose. Technical considerations, niceties of the
law of trusts or conveyances, or the legal paraphernalia
which inventive genius may construct as a refuge from
surtaxes should not obscure the basic issue. That issue
is whether the grantor after the trust has been established may still be treated, under this statutory scheme,
as the owner of the corpus. See Blair v. Commissioner,
300 U. S. 5, 12. In absence of more precise standards
or guides supplied by statute or appropriate regulations,'
'We have not considered here Art. 166-1 of Treasury Regulations
86 promulgated under § 166 of the 1934 Act and in 1936 amended
(T. D. 4629) so as to rest on § 22 (a) also, since the tax in question
arose prior to that amendment.

HELVERING v. CLIFFORD.
331

Opinion of the Court.

the answer to that question must depend on an analysis
of the terms of the trust and all the circumstances attendant on its creation and operation. And where the
grantor is the trustee and the beneficiaries are members
of his family group, special scrutiny of the arrangement
is necessary lest what is in reality but one economic unit
be multiplied into two or more 2 by devices which, though
valid under state law, are not conclusive so far as § 22 (a)
is concerned.
In this case we cannot conclude as a matter of law that
respondent ceased to be the owner of the corpus after
the trust was created. Rather, the short duration of the
trust, the fact that the wife was the beneficiary, and the
retention of control over the corpus by respondent all
lead irresistibly to the conclusion that respondent continued to be the owner for purposes of § 22 (a).
So far as his dominion and control were concerned it
seems clear that the trust did not effect any substantial
change. In substance his control over the corpus was in
all essential respects the same after the trust was created,
as before. The wide powers which he retained included
for all practical purposes most of the control which he
as an individual would have. There were, we may assume, exceptions, such as his disability to make a gift
of the corpus to others during the term of the trust and
to make loans to himself. But this dilution in his control would seem to be insignificant and immaterial, since
control over investment remained. If it be said that
such control is the type of dominion exercised by any
trustee, the answer is simple. We have at best a temporary reallocation of income within an intimate family
group. Since the income remains in the family and since
the husband retains control over the investment, he has
rather complete assurance that the trust will not effect
'See Paul, The Background of the Revenue Act of 1937, 5 Univ.
Chic. L. Rev. 41.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

any substantial change in his economic position. It is
hard to imagine that respondent felt himself the poorer
after this trust had been executed or, if he did, that it
had any rational foundation in fact. For as a result of
the terms of the trust and the intimacy of the familial
relationship respondent retained the substanc of full
enjoyment of all the rights which previously he had in
the property. That might not be true if only strictly
legal rights were considered. But when the benefits flowing to him indirectly through the wife are added to the
legal rights he retained, the aggregate may be said to
be a fair equivalent of what he previously had. To
exclude from the aggregate those indirect benefits would
be to deprive § 22 (a) of considerable vitality and to
treat as immaterial what may be highly relevant considerations in the creation of such family trusts. For where
the head of the household has income in excess of normal
needs, it may well make but little difference to him
(except income-tax-wise) where portions of that income
are routed-so long as it stays in the family group. In
those circumstances the all-important factor might be
retention by him of control over the principal. With
that control in his hands he would keep direct command
over all that he needed to remain in substantially the
same financial situation as before. Our point here is
that no one fact is normally decisive but that all considerations and circumstances of the kind we have mentioned
are relevant to the question of ownership and are appropriate foundations for findings on that issue. Thus,
where, as in this case, the benefits directly or indirectly
retained blend so imperceptibly with the normal concepts
of full ownership, we cannot say that the triers of fact
committed reversible error when they found that the
husband was the owner of the corpus for the purposes of
§ 22 (a). To hold otherwise would be to treat the wife
as a complete stranger; to let mere formalism obscure

HELVERING v. CLIFFORD.
331

Opinion of the Court.

the normal consequences of family solidarity; and to
force concepts of ownership to be fashioned out of legal
niceties which may have little or no significance in such
household arrangements.

The bundle of rights which he retained was so substantial that respondent cannot be heard to complain that he
is the "victim of despotic power when for the purpose of
taxation he is treated as owner altogether." See DuPont
v. Commissioner, 289 U. S. 685, 689.
We should add that liability under § 22 (a) is not foreclosed by reason of the fact that Congress made specific
provision in § 166 for revocable trusts, but failed to adopt
the Treasury recommendation in 1934, Helvering v. Wood,
post, p. 344, that similar specific treatment should be accorded income from short term trusts. Such choice, while
relevant to the scope of § 166, Helvering v. Wood, supra,
cannot be said to have subtracted from § 22 (a) what
was already there. Rather, on this evidence it must be
assumed that the choice was between a generalized treatment under § 22 (a) or specific treatment under a separate provision ' (such as was accorded revocable trusts
under § 166); not between taxing or not taxing grantors
of short term trusts. In view of the broad and sweeping
language of § 22 (a), a specific provision covering short
term trusts might well do no more than to carve out of
§ 22 (a) a defined group of cases to which a rule of thumb
'As to the disadvantage of a specific statutory formula over more
generalized treatment see Vol. I, Report, Income Tax Codification
Committee (1936), a committee appointed by the Chancellor of the
Exchequer in 1927. In discussing revocable settlements the Committee stated, p. 298:
"This and the three following clauses reproduce section 20 of the
Finance Act, 1922, an enactment which has been the subject of much
litigation, is unsatisfactory in many respects, and is plainly inadequate to fulfil the apparent intention to prevent avoidance of liability
to tax by revocable dispositions of income or other devices. We think
the matter one which is worthy of the attention of Parliament."
215234-40-22

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

would be applied. The failure of Congress to adopt any
such rule of thumb for that type of trust must be taken
to do no more than to leave to the triers of fact the initial
determination of whether or not on the facts of each case
the grantor remains the owner for purposes of § 22 (a).
In view of this result we need not examine the contention that the trust device falls within the rule of Lucas v.
Earl, 281 U. S. 111 and Burnet v. Leininger, 285 U. S.
136, relating to the assignment of future income; or that
respondent is liable under § 166, taxing grantors on the
income of revocable trusts.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the Board of Tax Appeals is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting:

I think the judgment should be affirmed.
The decision of the court disregards the fundamental
principle that legislation is not the function of the judiciary but of Congress.
In every revenue act from that of 1916 to the one now
in force a distinction has been made between income of
individuals and income from property held in trust.' It
has been the practice to define income of individuals, and,
in separate sections, under the heading "Estates and
Trusts," to provide that the tax imposed upon individuals shall apply to the income of estates or of any kind
'Revenue Act of 1916, 39 Stat. 756, § 2 (a) (b); Revenue Act of
1918, 40 Stat. 1057, § 213 -(a), § 219; Revenue Act of 1921, 42 Stat.
227, § 213 (a), § 219; Revenue Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 253, § 213 (a),
§ 219; Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 9, § 213 (a), § 219; Revenue
Act of 1928, 45 Stat. 791, § 22 (a), §§ 161 to 169, incl.; Revenue Act
of 1932, 47 Stat. 169, § 22 (a), §§ 161 to 169 incl.; Revenue Act of
1934, 48 Stat. 680, § 22 (a), §§ 161 to 167, incl.; Revenue Act of
1936, 49 Stat. 1648, § 22 (a), §§ 161 to 167, incl.

HELVERING v. CLIFFORD.
331

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

of property held in trust. A trust is a separate taxable
entity. The trust here in question is a true trust.
While the earlier acts were in force creators of trusts
reserved power to repossess the trust corpus. It became common also to establish trusts under which, at
the grantor's discretion, all or part of the income might
be paid to him, and to set up trusts to pay life insurance
premiums upon policies on the grantor's life. The situation was analogous to that now presented. The
Treasury, instead of asking this court, under the guise
of construction, to amend the act, went to Congress for
new legislation. Congress provided, by § 219 (g) (h) of
the Revenue Act of 1924, that if the grantor set up such
a life insurance trust, or one under which he could direct
the payment of the trust income to himself, or had the
power to revest the principal in himself during any taxable year, the income of2 the trust, for the taxable year,
was to be treated as his.
After the adoption of these amendments taxpayers
resorted to the creation of revocable trusts with a provision that more than a year's notice of revocation should
be necessary to termination. Such a trust was held not
to be within the terms of § 219 (g) of the Revenue Act
of 1924, because not revocable within the taxable
year.3
Again, without seeking amendment in the guise of
construction from this court, the Treasury applied to
Congress, which met the situation by adopting § 166 of
the Revenue Act of 1934, which provided that, in the case
of a trust under which the grantor reserved the power at
'See Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U. S. 376; Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S.
670.
'Lewis v. White, 56 F. 2d 390; 61 F. 2d 1046; Langley v. Commissioner, 61 F. 2d 796; Commissioner v. Grosvenor, 85 F. 2d 2;
Faber v. United States, 1 F. Supp. 859.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

any time to revest the corpus in himself, the income of
the trust should be considered that of the grantor.
The Treasury had asked that there should also be included in that act a provision taxing to the grantor
income from short term trusts. After the House Ways
and Means Committee had rendered a report on the proposed bill, the Treasury, upon examination of the report,
submitted a statement to the Committee containing
recommendations for additional provisions; amongst
others, the following: "(6) The income from short-term
trusts and trusts which are revocable by the creator at
the expiration of a short period after notice by him
should be made taxable to the creator of the trust."
Congress adopted an amendment to cover the one situation but did not accept the Treasury's recommendation as to the other.4 The statute, as before, clearly
provided that the income from a short term irrevocable
trust was taxable to the trust, or the beneficiary, and not
to the grantor.
The regulations under § 166 of the Act of 1932 contained no suggestion that term trusts were taxable to the
creator though, if the petitioner is right, they would be
equally so under that act as under later ones. Thus
though the Treasury realized that irrevocable short term
trusts did not fall within the scope of § 166, instead of
going to Congress for amendment of the law it comes
here with a plea for interpretation which is in effect such
amendment.
Its claim, in support of this effort, that a reversionary
interest in the grantor is a "power to revest" the corpus
within the meaning of § 166 so as to render the income
taxable to the grantor is plainly untenable.' That theory
'Hearings on H. R. 7835, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 151; H. Rep. No.
1385, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 24.
'United States v. First National Bank, 74 F. 2d 360; Corning v.
Commissioner, 104 F. 2d 329.

HELVERING v. CLIFFORD.
331

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

was first advanced in a regulation issued under the 1934
act,6 but was abandoned March 7, 1936, when the regulation was revised to read substantially in its present form.'

The Board of Tax Appeals held a possibility of reverter
isnot the "power to revest" described in § 166.8 The
petitioner acquiesced in the decision.
The Treasury
thereafter ruled that a grantor was not taxable on the
income of a trust where he had retained a reversionary
interest."
I think it clear that the administrative interpretation
has not been consistent and that rebnactment of § 166 is,
therefore, not a ratification by Congress of the present
construction.

The revised regulations indicating that in some circumstances the separate taxability of the trust may be ignored
are said to rest or) § 166, and also on § 22 (a) which defines income. The regulation is not only without support in the statute but contrary to the entire statutory
scheme and, as it now stands, is vague and meaningless,
as respects the taxability to the grantor of income from
an irrevocable term trust.
To construe either § 166 or § 22 (a) of the statute as
justifying taxation of the income to respondent in this
case is, in my judgment, to write into the statute what is
not there and what Congress has omitted to place there.
If judges were members of the legislature they might
well vote to amend the act so as to tax such income in
order to frustrate avoidance of tax but, as judges, they
exercise a very different function. They ought to read
the act to cover nothing more than Congress has specified.
'Regulations 86, Art. 166-1.
'T.D. 4629, C. B. XV-1, 140.
'Downs v. Commissioner, 36 B. T. A. 1129.
'C. B. 1938-1, p. 9.
"0 T. 3238, C. B. XVII-2, p. 204.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

309 U. S.

Courts ought not to stop loopholes in an act at the behest
of the Government, nor relieve from what they deem a
harsh provision plainly stated, at the behest of the taxpayer. Relief in either case should be sought in another
quarter.
No such dictum as that Congress has in the income tax
law attempted to exercise its power to the fullest extent
will justify the extension of a plain provision to an object
of taxation not embraqed within it. If the 'contrary
were true, the courts might supply whatever they considered a deficiency in the sweep of a taxing act. I cannot construe the court's opinion as attempting less.
The fact that the petitioner is in truth asking us to
legislate in this case is evident from the form of the
existing regulation and from the argument presented.
The important portion of the regulation reads as follows: "In determining whether the grantor is in substance the owner of the corpus, the Act has its own
standard, which is a substantial one, dependent neither
on the niceties of the particular conveyancing device
used, nor on the technical description which the law of
property gives to the estate or interest transferred to the
trustees or beneficiaries of the trust. In that determination, among the material factors are: The fact that the
corpus is to be returned to the grantor after a specific
term; the fact that the corpus is or may be administered
in the interest of the grantor; the fact that the anticipated income is being appropriated in advance for the
customary expenditures of the grantor or those which
he would ordinarily and naturally make; and any other
circumstances bearing on the impermanence and indefiniteness with which the grantor has parted with the
substantial incidents of ownership in the corpus."
In his brief the petitioner says:
"On the other hand, the income of a long term irrevocable trust which committed the possession and control

HELVERING v. CLIFFORD.
331

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

of the corpus to an independent trustee would not likely
be taxed to the settlor merely because of a reversionary
interest. The question here, as in many other tax problems, is simply one of degree. The grantor's liability to
tax must depend upon whether he retains so many of the
attributes of ownership as to require that he be treated
as the owner for tax purposes, or whether he has given up
the substance of his dominion and control over the trust
property.
"Under these circumstances, the question of precisely
where the line should be drawn between those irrevocable
trusts which deprive the grantor of command over the
trust property and those which leave in him the practical
equivalent of ownership is, in our view, a matter peculiarly for the judgment of the agency charged with the
administrationof the tax law." (Italics supplied.)
It is not our function to draw any such line as the argument suggests. That is the prerogative of Congress. As
far back as 1922, Parliament amended the British Income
Tax Act, so that there would be no dispute as to what
short term trust income should be taxable to the grantor,
by making taxable to him any income which, by virtue
of any disposition, is payable to, or applicable for the
benefit of, any other person for a period which cannot
exceed six years.1 1
If some short term trusts are to be treated as nonexistent for income tax purposes, it is for Congress to
specify them.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS joins in this opinion.

12 and 13 Geo. 5, ch. 17, § 20, L. R. Statutes, Vol. 60, p. 373.
Though the provision has been thought unsatisfactory, the suggestion
made for improvement is that the matter be brought before Parliament for action.

