HELVERING v. PRICE.
390

Counsel for Parties.

an apportionment was entitled to avail itself of the experience of those best qualified to form a judgment in the
particular field of inquiry and come to its conclusion aided
by their testimony. We see no greater difficulty in the
admission and use of expert testimony in such a case than
in the countless cases involving values of property rights
in which such testimony often forms the sole basis for
decision.
Petitioners also complain of deductions allowed in the
computation of the net profits. These contentions involve questions of fact which have been determined below upon the evidence and we find no ground for disturbing the court's conclusions.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the decision

of this case.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. PRICE.
CERTIORARI

No. 559.

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FOURTH

CIRCUIT.

Argued March 5, 6, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

A taxpayer, keeping accounts upon a cash basis, is not entitled to
deduct, as a loss sustained during the taxable year, Revenue Act,
1932, § 23 (e), a payment made in discharge of his liability to a
bank on a guaranty, but made by substituting his new note to the
bank for his earlier one, of the same amount. P. 412.
106 F. 2d 336, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 308 U. S. 548, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a deficiency assessment.

Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Sewall Key and Berryman Green were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. George D. Brabson, with whom Messrs. David H.
Blair, C. R. Wharton, Julius C. Smith, and J. G. Kgrner,
Jr. were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Respondent in his income tax return for 1932 claimed
a deduction for a loss upon a contract of guaranty. The
Board of Tax Appeals sustained the Commissioner in refusing to allow the deduction, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed. 106 F. 2d 336. Because of an alleged
conflict with Eckert v. Burnet, 283 U. S. 140, Jenkins v.
Bitgood, C. C. A. 2d, 101 F. 2d 17, and Ferris v. Commissioner, C. C. A. 2d, 102 F. 2d 985, we granted certiorari, 308 U. S. 548.
The facts as found may be thus summarized: In 1929
the Atlantic Bank and Trust Company of Greensboro,
North Carolina, was merged with the North Carolina
Bank and Trust Company. The latter accepted conditionally certain assets of the Atlantic Bank called "A"
assets, and certain other assets, called "B" assets, were
pledged to that Bank with authority to charge against
them any losses which might be established in realizing
upon the "A" assets. Respondent and three other stockholders of the Atlantic Bank executed an agreement of
guaranty, to the effect that if the North Carolina Bank
failed to realize a certain sum from the "A" assets within
two years they would make up the deficiency in an
amount not exceeding $500,000. The agreement provided that any sum realized from the "B" assets was to
be applied first to any losses occurring in the "A" assets
and then to the reimbursement of the four guarantors.
The period for realizing upon the "A" assets was extended
until September, 1932.

HELVERING v. PRICE.
409

Opinion of the Court.

In June, 1931, the North Carolina Bank advised the
guarantors that the "B" assets were not in such shape
that the Bank could use them to the extent necessary
for banking purposes and requested the guarantors to
put their guaranty into a bankable form so that it could
be used by the Bank to obtain credit. Respondent accordingly gave to the Bank his note for $125,000 and
endorsed the note of C. W. Gold, another guarantor, for
a like amount and assigned certain securities to the Bank
as collateral for the payment of his guaranty. The Bank
agreed that respondent's ultimate liability should not
exceed $250,000. At the end of 1931, the guaranty
agreement was still in effect. The "B" assets were still
in the process of collection. No demand had been made
upon respondent. While it was known that there would
be some loss to the guarantors, it was not definitely
known in 1931 what the loss would be, and the guarantors
had reason to believe that there would be a substantial
reimbursement from the "B" assets of any losses.
In the early part of 1932, financial conditions being
worse, the Bank concluded that it would have to collect
upon the guaranty and called upon respondent to make
a final settlement of his obligations. Accordingly, in
March, 1932, respondent made his note to the Bank for
$250,000 and received back the two notes. The Board
of Tax Appeals found that both respondent and the Bank
considered this to be a final payment of the two notes
which had been given under the guaranty. The Bank
retained the same collateral for the $250,000 note that
it had previously held, and in -December, 1932, respondent substituted therefor certain securities of his own.
Respondent claimed a loss in 1932 in the amount of
$125,000, that is, for his one-half of the guaranty. He
did not then claim a loss on the other one-half because
he still had a claim against the estate of Gold (who had
died in 1932) for reimbursement. For that one-half,
representing Gold's part of the guaranty, respondent

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

claimed a loss in 1933 and that deduction is not here
involved.
Respondent kept his accounts upon a cash basis. The
Board of Tax Appeals ruled that respondent was not
entitled to the deduction of $125,000 in 1932, upon the
ground that "he made no outlay of cash" in the purported payment; he had satisfied his liability as guarantor "by a shifting of the form of his liability." His
loss would be deductible "in the year in which he pays
the note."
Respondent insists initially that the transaction in
1932 was considered by the parties as constituting a
payment of respondent's liability under the guaranty,
and that this payment is a fact found by the Board of
Tax Appeals and is not open to review. But the findings
of the Board disclose the entire transaction, and its legal
effect in the application of § 23 (e) of the Revenue Act
of 1932, as to the deduction of losses sustained during
the taxable year, was reviewable by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Its decision on that point is reviewable here.
Both the Commissioner and the Board of Tax Appeals relied upon our decision in Eckert v. Burnet, supra.
In that case, the taxpayer's return was on the cash basis,
and the question was as to a claim of deduction for the
year 1925. The taxpayer and his partner were joint endorsers of notes issued by a corporation they had formed.
In 1925, in settlement of their liability for an ascertained
amount, they made a joint note for the amount due to
the bank that held the corporation's paper, "received the
old notes, marked paid, and destroyed them." We affirmed the ruling that the deduction should not be
allowed.
The court below considered that decision as definite
authority only for the holding that a loss of the sort set
forth was not deductible under the "bad debt" provision
of the statute. That indeed ,was stated in the opinion as

HELVERING v. PRICE.
409

Opinion of the Court.

the taxpayer's claim. But the taxpayer had also presented here as an alternative ground the theory of a loss
sustained during the taxable year, a ground which the
Board of Tax Appeals had considered and held to be
untenable. 17 B. T. A. 263, 265, 266. And the Government argued both questions. The Government did
not contend that the taxpayer might not at some time
be entitled to a deduction "either on account of a bad
debt or for a business loss"; the "sole question in dispute
was whether he was entitled to the deduction in 1925,
the year in which his note was given, or in the'later year
in which the taxpayer's liability on the note is actually
liquidated by payment."
The reasoning of this Court was broad enough to
cover both aspects of the case. We said:
"For the purpose of a return upon a cash basis, there
was no loss in 1925. As happily stated by the Board of
Tax Appeals, the petitioner 'merely exchanged his note
under which he was primarily liable for the corporation's
notes under which he was secondarily liable, without any
outlay of cash or property having a cash value.' A deduction may be permissible in the taxable year in which
the petitioner pays cash. The petitioner says that it was
definitely ascertained in 1925 that the petitioner would
sustain the losses in question. So it was, if the petitioner
ultimately pays his note."
We think that this decision is controlling in the instant
case. As the return was on the cash basis, there could
be no deduction in the year 1932, unless the substitution
of respondent's note in that year constituted a payment
in cash or its equivalent. There was no cash payment
and under the doctrine of the Eckert case the giving of
the taxpayer's own note was not the equivalent of cash
to entitle the taxpayer to the deduction.
Respondent urges that his note was secured, but the
collateral was not payment. It was given to secure re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

spondent's promise to pay, and if that promise to pay
was not sufficient to warrant the deduction until the
promise was made good by actual payment, the giving
of security for performance did not transform the promise into the payment required to constitute a deductible
loss in the taxable year. See Jenkins v. Bitgood, 101 F.
2d 17, 19.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals is
affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the decision
of this case.
McGOLDRICK, COMPTROLLER OF THE CITY OF
NEW YORK, v.. GULF OIL CORP.
C
CERTIORARI TO THE, SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 473.

Reargued February 27, 1940.-Decided March 25, 1940.

1. The tax imposed by § 601 of the Revenue Act of 1932 on importation of crude petroleum is by force of the provisions of that
section to be treated as a duty imposed by the Tariff Act of
1930, which in turn incorporated, by reference, customs regulations relating to the entry of merchandise in bonded manufacturing warehouses for exportation or disposition as ships' stores;
section 630 of the Revenue Act (amendment of 1933) exempts from
tax any article sold for use as fuel, ships' stores, -etc., on vessels
actually engaged in foreign trade, and, read in conjunction with
the Tariff Act, provides that articles manufactured from imported
articles and laden for use on vessels engaged in foreign commerce
under customs regulations are to be duty free and considered or
held to be exported for the purpose of drawback provisions of
§ 601 of the Revenue Act and § 309 [b] of the Tariff Act. P. 423.
2. Under these provisions, oil imported in bond in the crude form
into a State, converted into fuel oil in a bonded warehouse, and
withdrawn duty free for sale for fuel to a vessel engaged in
foreign trade, is from the time of importation until the moment
of lading on the vessel, segregated from the common mass of

