OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

McCARROLL, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUES
OF ARKANSAS, v. DIXIE GREYHOUND LINES,
INC.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 138.

Argued December 14, 1939.-Decided February 12, 1940.

A state tax allocated to highway purposes and imposed on each
gallon of gasoline, above twenty, brought into the State by any
motor vehicle for use as fuel in such vehicle, held a forbidden
burden on interstate commerce as applied to gasoline carried by
interstate motor buses through the State for use as fuel in the
course of their interstate transportation beyond the state line.
P. 180.
In the circumstances, the imposition is not compensation for
the privilege of using the state highways.
101 F. 2d 572, affirmed.

from a decree which reversed the action of the
District Court in denying an injunction and in dismissing
the bill in a suit to restrain the enforcement of a state
gasoline tax, 22 F. Supp. 985, and which directed that
court to enter a decree of injunction.
APPEAL

Messrs. Frank Pace, Jr. and Amos M. Mathews, with
whom Mr. Louis Tarlowski was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. A. L. Heiskell, with whom Messrs. Walter Chandler and J. H. Shepherd were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
An Arkansas statute 1 prohibits entry into the State of
any automobile or truck "carrying over twenty (20) gal'Act 67 General Assembly Arkansas, approved March 2, 1933"Section 1. On and after the passage of this Act it shall be a violation of the law for any person, co-partnership or company to drive

McCARROLL v. DIXIE LINES.
Opinion of the Court.

176

Ions of gasoline in the gasoline tank of such automobile
or truck or in auxiliary tanks of said trucks to be used as
motor fuel in said truck or motor vehicles until the state
tax thereon [six and one-half cents per gallon 2] has been
paid."
Appellee, a Delaware corporation, operates passenger
busses propelled by gasoline motors, from Memphis, Tennessee across Arkansas to St. Louis, Missouri, and in reverse. The route between these points approximates 342
miles-3 in Tennessee, 78 in Arkansas, 261 in Missouri.
Like busses ply between Memphis and points within and
beyond Arkansas, and in reverse. It is only necessary
now to consider the facts connected with operation of the
Memphis-St. Louis line. They are typical.
or cause to be driven into the State of Arkansas any automobile or
truck carrying over twenty (20) gallons of gasoline in the gasoline
tank of such automobile or truck or in auxiliary tanks of said trucks
to be used as motor fuel in said truck or motor vehicles until the state
tax thereon has been paid.
"Section 2. Any person, co-partnership or company violating the
provisions of this Act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one

hundred ($100) dollars. Each load carried into the state shall constitute a separate offense.
"Section 3. All laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed. It is ascertained that this Act is necessary to better enforce the gasoline collection laws and said Act being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is hereby declared to exist and this Act shall take effect
and be in full force from and after its passage."
2Act 11 Extraordinary Sessions Arkansas, approved February 12,
1934"Section 22. Paragraph (c) of Section 1 of Act No. 63 of the General Assembly, approved February 25, 1931, is amended to read as
follows:
"'(c) There is hereby levied a privilege or excise tax of six and
one-half cents on each gallon of motor vehicle fuel as defined in this
Act, sold or used in this State or purchased for sale or use in this
State.'"
21523440-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

Each bus consumes about one gallon of gasoline for every
five miles traversed. Sixty-eight gallons are required for
the journey from Memphis to St. Louis-under one in
Tennessee, sixteen in Arkansas, fifty-one in Missouri. The
practice is to place in the bus tank at Memphis the sixtyeight gallons of gasoline commonly required for the trip;
also ten more to meet any emergency. Thus upon arrival
at the Arkansas line the tank contains some seventyseven gallons of which sixteen probably will be consumed
within that State. As a condition precedent to entry
there, appellant-revenue officer of the State--demands
that each bus pay six and one-half cents upon every gallon of this gasoline above twenty, and threatens
enforcement.
By a bill in the District Court, appellee unsuccessfully
sought an injunction against this threatened action. The
Circuit Court of Appeals Eighth Circuit took a different
view.
After accepting as correct the ruling in Sparling v.
Refunding Board, 189 Ark. 189, 199; 71 S. W. 2d 182,
186, that the tax imposed was not upon property but on
the privilege of using the highways, and had been definitely allocated to highway purposes, the latter court
said"The appellant does not now contend that the tax of
which it complains may not be imposed by the State of
Arkansas with respect to gasoline consumed or to be
consumed upon the highways of Arkansas, as compensation for the use of the highways, but it does contend that
that State may not impose a tax upon gasoline which is
carried in interstate commerce for use in Missouri or
Tennessee, because that would constitute a direct and
unreasonable burden upon interstate commerce."
"Reduced to its lowest possible terms, the question for
decision, we think, is whether the imposition of the tax
upon gasoline carried, for use in other states, in the fuel

McCARROLL v. DIXIE LINES.
176

. 179

Opinion of the Court.

tank of a motor vehicle traveling in interstate commerce
can be sustained. That the tax is a direct burden on
interstate commerce, cannot be controverted."
"If it is to be sustained at all with respect to gasoline
to be used in other states, it must be sustained upon the
theory that the method employed for determining the
amount of the tax constitutes a fair measure for ascertaining the compensation which lawfully may be exacted by
Arkansas-from the appellant for the use which it makes
of the highways of the State."
"While we can understand how the use of state highways by a carrier can be roughly measured by the amount
of gasoline which that carrier uses to move its vehicles
over the highways, we are unable to comprehend how the
use of the highways of one state can appropriately be
measured by the amount of gasoline carried in the fuel
tank of an interstate carrier for use upon the highways of
another state." 101 F. 2d 572, 574.
Also, it declared the point in issue is ruled by Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, 283 U. S. 183, 186, which
held invalid a tax laid by Tennessee's Legislature on the
privilege of operating a bus in interstate commerce because not imposed solely as compensation for the use of
highways or to defray the expense of regulating motor
traffic.
Finally, it reversed the District Court and directed
entry of a decree there enjoining appellant "from enforcing the challenged tax against it [the appellee] with respect to all gasoline in the fuel tanks of its interstate
busses which is being carried through Arkansas for use
in other states."
This action we approve.
The often announced rule is that while generally a state
may not directly burden interstate commerce by taxation
she may require all who use her roads to make reasonable
compensation therefor. Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
STONE, J., concurring.

309 U. S.

610, 622; Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, supra, 185,
186; Bingaman v. Golden Eagle Western Lines, 297 U. S.
626, 628.
Here, the revenue officer demanded payment of appellee
on account of gasoline to be immediately transported over
the roads of Arkansas for consumption beyond. If, considering all the circumstances, this imposition reasonably
can be regarded as proper compensation for using the
roads it is permissible. But the facts disclosed are incompatible with that view. A fair charge could have no! reasonable relation to such gasoline. That could not be even
roughly computed by considering only the contents of the
tank. Moreover, we find no purpose to exact fair compensation only from all who make use of the highways.
Twenty gallons of gasoline ordinarily will propel a bus
across the State and if only that much is in the tank at
the border no charge whatever is made. Evidently large
use without compensation is permissible and easy to
obtain.
The point here involved has been much discussed. Our
opinions above referred to and. others there cited define
the applicable principles. The present controversy is
within those approved by Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, supra. Neither Hicklin v. Coney, 290 U. S. 169, nor
Bingaman v. Golden Eagle Western Lines, supra, relied
upon by appellant's counsel, properly understood, sanctions a different view.
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, concurring:
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE
REED, and I agree with MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, but

we think a word should be said of appellant's contention

McCARROLL v. DIXIE LINES.
176

STONE,

J., concurring.

that the tax in its practical operation may be taken as
a fair measure of respondent's use of the highways.
Since the subject taxed, gasoline introduced into the
state in the tank of a vehicle, for use solely in propelling
it in interstate commerce, is immune from state taxation
except for a limited state purpose, the exaction of a reasonable charge for the use of its highways, it is not enough
that the tax when collected is expended upon the state's
highways. It must appear on the face of the statute or
be demonstrable that the tax as laid is measured by or
has some fair relationship to the use of the highways for
which the charge is made. Sprout v. City of South Bend,
277 U. S. 163, 170; Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey,
283 U. S. 183, 186; Bingaman v. Golden Eagle Western
Lines, 297 U. S. 626, 628; Morf v. Bingaman, 298 U. S.
407; Ingels v. Morf, 300 U. S. 290, 294.
While the present tax, laid on gasoline in the tank in
excess of twenty gallons, admittedly has no necessary or
apparent relationship to any use of the highways intrastate, appellant argues that, as applied to the reserve
gasoline in each of appellee's vehicles, the tax either is,
or with a reduction of the reserves would be, substantially
equivalent to a tax which the state could lay, but has not,
on the gasoline consumed within the state. That could
be true only in case the taxed gasoline, said to be reserved
for the extrastate journey, were by chance or design of
substantially the same amount as that consumed intrastate.
That the relationship between tax and highway use
does not in fact exist as the business is now conducted, is
demonstrated by appellant's showing that on all of appellee's routes, taken together, the taxed gasoline which is
reserved for extrastate use is substantially more than
that consumed on those routes within the state. In three
the taxed reserve in excess of the twenty gallons exemption is substantially the same as the amount of the intra-

OCTOBER .TERM, 1939.
STONE,

J., concurring.

309 U. S.

state consumption. But on the fourth route the taxed
reserve on busses moving in one direction is more than
four times that consumed within the state. In the other
it is approximately the same. With the three scheduled
trips daily each way on the Memphis-St. Louis route,
the excess of the gasoline taxed over that consumed in the
state is more than 150 gallons per day. In no case does
it appear that the amount of taxed gasoline has any relation to the size or weight of vehicles.
It cannot be said that such a tax whose equivalence to a
fair charge for the use of the highways, when not fortuitous, is attained only by appellee's abandonment of
some of the commerce which is taxed, has any such fair
relationship to the use of the highways by appellee as
would serve to relieve the state from the constitutional
prohibition against the taxation of property moving in
interstate commerce. A tax so variable in its revenue
production when compared with the taxpayer's intrastate movement cannot be thought to be "levied only as
compensation for the use of the highways." Interstate
Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, supra, 186. Justification of the
tax, as a compensation measure, by treating it as the
equivalent of one which could be laid on gasoline consumed within the state must fail because the statute on
its face and in its application discriminates against the
commerce by measuring the tax by the consumption of
gasoline moving and used in interstate commerce which
occurs outside the state. See Fargov. Michigan, 121 U. S.
230, 241; Gwin, White & Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S.
434, 438.
It is no answer to the challenge to the levy to say that
by altering the amount of the gasoline brought into the
state for extrastate consumption appellee could so moderate the tax that it would bear a fair relation to the use
of the highways within the state. In the circumstances of
this case the state is without power to regulate the amount

McCARROLL v. DIXIE LINES.
176

Dissent.

of gasoline carried interstate in appellee's tanks. It cannot be said, if that were material, that the amount carried is not appropriate for the interstate commerce in
which appellee is engaged and it can hardly be supposed
that the state could compel appellee to purchase there
all the gasoline which it uses intrastate upon an interstate journey, because that would be a convenient means
of laying and collecting a tax for the use of the highways.
There are ways enough in which the state can take its
lawful toll without any suppression of the commerce
which it taxes. In laying an exaction as a means of
collecting compensation for the use of its highways the
state must tax the commerce as it is done, and not as it
might be done if the state could control it. Appellant
cannot justify an unlawful exaction by insisting that it
would be lawful if the taxpayer were to relinquish some
of the commerce which the Constitution protects from
state interference.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS, dissenting:

and

We take a different view. Measured by the oftrepeated judicial rule that every enactment of a legislature carries a presumption of constitutional validity, the
Arkansas tax has not, in our opinion, been shown to be
beyond all reasonable doubt in violation of the constitutional provision that "Congress shall have power to . . .
regulate commerce . . . among the States."

"In case of

real doubt, a law must be sustained." Mr. Justice
Holmes in Interstate Consolidated Ry. Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S. 79, 88.1 Congress, sole constitutional
legislative repository of power over that commerce, has
'Cf. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 270; Butler v. Pennsylvania, 10 How. 402; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425; Henderson Bridge
Co. v. Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592, 606, 615; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 195.

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Dissent.

309 U. S.

enacted no regulation prohibiting Arkansas from levying
a tax-on gasoline in excess of twenty gallons brought
into the State-in return for the use of its highways.
Gasoline taxes are widely utilized for building and maintaining public roads, and the proceeds of this Arkansas
tax are pledged to that end. Arkansas can levy a gallonage tax on any gasoline withdrawn from storage within
the State and placed in the tanks of this carrier's vehicles
"notwithstanding that its ultimate function is to generate
motive power for carrying on interstate commerce."
Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, 289 U. S. 249, 252.
The present tax aims at carriers who would escape such
taxation, unless we are to require Arkansas to shape its
taxes to the circumstances of each carrier.
The cost entailed by the construction and maintenance
of modern highways creates for the forty-eight States
one of their largest financial problems. A major phase
of this problem is the proper apportionment of the financial burden between those who use a State's highways for
transportation within its borders and those who do so in
the course of interstate transportation. Striking a fair
balance involves incalculable variants and therefore is
beset with perplexities. The making of these exacting
adjustments is the business of legislation-that of state
legislatures and of Congress. This Court has but a
limited responsibility in that state legislation may here
be challenged if it discriminates against interstate commerce or is hostile to the congressional grant of authority.
McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Coal Mining Co., ante,
p. 33.
Arkansas' tax hits the big, heavy busses and trucks
which, it is well established, entail most serious wear and
tear upon roads. Had Arkansas expressly declared the
challenged statute to be a means of working out a fair
charge upon these heavy vehicles for cost and maintenance of the roads they travel in the State, the relation-

McCARROLL v. DIXIE LINES.
176

Dissent.

ship between the means employed and these allowable
ends-however crude and awkward-would have been
rendered more explicit, but not made more evidently a
matter of policy and administration, and therefore not
for judicial determination. Certainly, the State had
power to impose flat fees or taxes graduated according to
gasoline used, horsepower, weight and capacity or mileage, and yet those taxes would not measure with exact
precision the taxpayers' use of Arkansas highways.2 It
is not for us to measure the refinements of fiscal duties
which a State may exact from these heavy motor
vehicles.3
This case again illustrates the wisdom of the Founders
in placing interstate commerce under the protection of
Congress. The present problem is not limited to Arkansas, but is of national moment. Maintenance of open
channels of trade between the States was pot only of
paramount importance when our Constitution was
framed; it remains today a complex problem calling for
national vigilance and regulation.
Our disagreement with the opinions just announced
does not arise from a belief that federal action is unnecessary to bring about appropriate uniformity in regulations of interstate commerce. Indeed, state legislation
recently before this Court indicates quite the contrary.
For instance, we sustained the right of South Carolina'Interstate Busses Corp. v. Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245; Carley &
Hamilton v. Snook, 281 U. S. 66; Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring,
286 U. S. 352; Hicklin v. Coney, 290 U. S. 169; Aero Transit Co. v.
Georgia Comm'n, 295 U. S. 285; Morf v. Bingaman, 298 U. S. 407.
' If the State had the power to levy the tax, absent congressional

proscription, it likewise had the power to extend the grace of exemption to users of its highways of less tank capacity or gasoline load
than appellee. Cf. ContinentalBaking Co. v. Woodring, supra, 370-3;
Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 396; Aero Transit Co. v. Georgia
Comm'n, supra, 289, 292-3.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Dissent.

309 U. S.

in the absence of congressional prohibition-to regulate
the width and weight of interstate trucks using her highways, even though the unassailed findings showed that a
substantial amount of interstate commerce would thereby
be barred from the State. South CarolinaHighway Dept.
v. Barnwell Bros.4 We did not thereby approve the
desirability of such state regulations. It is not for us to
approve or disapprove. We did decide that "courts do
not sit as legislatures, either state or national. They cannot act as Congress does when, after weighing all the
conflicting interests, state and national, it determines
when and how much the state regulatory power shall
yield to the larger interests of national commerce." ' As
both the Union and the States are more and more dependent upon the exercise of their taxing powers for
carrying on government, it becomes more and more important that potential conflicts between state and national
powers should not be found where Congress has not
found them, unless conflict is established by demonstrable
concreteness. See Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, 275
U. S. 164.
Even under the principle enunciated by the majoritythat Arkansas may not measure her tax by gasoline carried in, appellee's tanks for use in other States-he
challenged judgment should not stand.
Arkansas admittedly has power to tax appellee upon
gasoline used within her borders, and need not, of course,
extend to appellee any exemption for a reserve. The
record discloses that appellee's busses travel 1188.8 miles
each day over Arkansas highways. The trial judge found,
and there is evidence to support the finding, that these
busses use about one gallon of gasoline for every five
miles traveled. Thus, appellee uses about 237.76 gallons
'303 U. S. 177, 190.
'Id., 190.

McCARROLL v. DIXIE LINES.
176

Dissent.

of gasoline a day in Arkansas, upon which the tax of 6.5
cents per gallon used would amount to $15.45 .a day.
Appellee's busses travel four different routes, two from
Memphis through Arkansas to Missouri, and two from
Memphis to cities in Arkansas. On the trips to Missouri
the tax now exacted by Arkansas is greater than would be
a tax on the gasoline actually used in Arkansas. But on
the trips from Memphis into Arkansas and back, the tax
exacted, because of the 20-gallon exemption, is less than
would be a tax on the gasoline used in Arkansas.
As appellant points out in his brief, when all the routes
are taken together, the daily tax which Arkansas would
collect if appellee carried only enough gasoline to complete each trip would only amount to $13.00-actually
$2.45 less than a tax on gasoline consumed in Arkansas.
This amount-$2.45--equals the present tax on 37
gallons of gasoline. Appellee's busses enter Arkansas 13
times each day. It follows that appellee may carry a
reserve of almost three gallons on each trip and still pay
no more than the tax which, as the majority assumes,
Arkansas could constitutionally impose on the gasoline
actually consumed on her own roads. There is nothing
in the record to show that a greater reserve is necessary.
An interstate carrier has no absolute right to fix the size
and character of its equipment used in interstate commerce, in total disregard of the necessities of the enterprise and the requirements of States through which the
carrier operates.6 Exactions by such States may well be
designed to operate upon the quantity of gasoline reserves
for considerations analogous to those which have called
into being state regulations of the size, weight and number
of the vehicles themselves. And a state tax which may
induce a reduction in the amount of reserve previously
'South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Dissent.

309 U. S.

carried is no more to be condemned on that sole ground
alone than is a state law actually prohibiting vehicles
above a certain size or weight. That this reduction may
be attributable to a tax rather than to a regulatory measure expressly passed in the interests of public safety
should not be controlling. Particularly is this so when
the proceeds of the tax are utilized exclusively for highway purposes and the tax itself is directed to gasoline
used, just as other equipment is used, in the course of
interstate business and involves no manifestation of hostility to-or levy upon-gasoline carried as a commodity
in interstate commerce. It is presumably safe to rely
on appellee's self-interest to work out any schedules of
refueling at its various storage facilities necessitated by
changes in reserves carried. We cannot believe that appellee is able to attack the constitutionality of this tax
on the ground that as to others it might operate differently and serve to burden the use of gasoline in other
States
It is important to bear in mind that we are not
passing upon a statute as such but upon the incidence of
this statute in the single concrete situation presented by
a specific objector on this specific record. The very fact
that such niceties of calculation have to be indulged in
as the concurring opinion finds necessary in order to establish the mischief of the statute, makes manifest the
"real doubt" of any showing of unconstitutionality and
indicates that a burden of calculation and speculation is
assumed in the exercise of the judicial function which
should be left to the legislatures of the States and the
Congress.
Judicial control of national commerce-unlike legislative
regulations-must from inherent limitations of the judi'Bourjois, Inc. v. Chapman, 301 U. S. 183, 190; Monamotor Oil Co.
v. Johnson, 292 U. S. 86, 96; see opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis,
Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 347.

McCARROLL v. DIXIE LINES.
176

Dissent.

cial process treat the subject by the hit-and-miss method
of deciding single local controversies upon evidence and
information limited by the narrow rules of litigation.
Spasmodic and unrelated instances of litigation cannot
afford an adequate basis for the creation of integrated national rules which alone can afford that full protection for
interstate commerce intended by the Constitution. We
would, therefore, leave the questions raised by the Arkansas tax for consideration of Congress in a nation-wide
survey of the constantly increasing barriers to trade
among the States. Unconfined by "the narrow scope of
judicial proceedings" ' Congress alone can, in the exercise
of its plenary constitutional control over interstate com•merce, not only consider whether such a tax as now under
scrutiny is consistent with the best interests of our national economy, but can also on the basis of full exploration of the many aspects of a complicated problem devise
a national policy fair alike to the States and our Union.
Diverse and interacting state laws may well have created
avoidable hardships. See, Comparative Charts of State
Statutes illustrating Barriers to Trade between States,
Works Progress Administration, May, 1939; Proceedings,
The National Conference on Interstate Trade Barriers,
The Council of State Governments, 1939. But the
remedy, if any is called for, we think is within the ample
reach of Congress.
See Mr. Chief Justice Taney, dissenting, Pennsylvania v. Wheeling
& Belmont Bridge Co., 13 How. 518, 592.

