OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

309 U. S.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
No. 10, original, October Term, 1935. Argued February 26, 27,
1940.-Decided April 22, 1940.
1. The decree of this Court in the litigation between Wyoming and
Colorado over the Laramie River limits the quantity of water
which Colorado may divert from the stream to a maximum of
39,750 acre feet per annum. P. 576.
2. So long as this maximum is not exceeded, Colorado remains free
to determine, by her laws and adjudications, how the water
diverted shall be distributed and used by and among her waterusers. Pp. 579 et seq.
3. That portion of the water allocated to Colorado which was
allowed on the basis of the "Meadow Land Appropriations" was
limited by the decree of this Court to 4,250 acre feet measured
at the point of diversion from the stream, this quantity being
deemed sufficient when the water is rightly and not wastefully
applied. P. 578.
Colorado's claim of a right to continue applying much larger
quantities to the meadowland irrigation upon the ground that the
greater part of the water so applied returns to the stream through
surface drainage and percolation, so that the part actually consumed does not exceed 4,250 acre feet, was considered and rejected
in fixing that limit to the Meadow Land Appropriations.
4. Upon an application to have Colorado adjudged in contempt for
having withdrawn more water from the Laramie River than the
39,750 acre feet limited by this Court's decree, a defense upon the
ground that Wyoming was not injured is inadmissible. P. 581.
5. Colorado, being charged with having made excessive withdrawals
of water from the Laramie River, in contempt of this Court's
decree, adduced proof by affidavits, that the withdrawals, made
through the meadowland ditches, were acquiesced in by Wyoming
officials, for the reason that a great portion of the water so diverted
returned to the river to be used downstream by Wyoming appropriators. Wyoming presented affidavits to the contrary. Held:
That, in the light of all the circumstances, it sufficiently appears
that there was uncertainty and room for misunderstanding which
may be considered in extenuation; but in the future there will
be no ground for any possible misapprehension based upon views
of the effect of the meadowland diversions or otherwise with

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
572

Opinion of the Court.

respect to the duty of Colorado to keep her total diversions from
the Laramie River and its tributaries within the limit fixed by
the decree. P. 581.

Upon a petition of the State of Wyoming praying that

the State of Colorado be adjudged in contempt for having
diverted water from the Laramie River in excess of the
quantity allowed by the decree of this Court; and upon
returns of the State of Colorado submitted in response to
an order to show cause. See post, p. 627.
Mr. Ewing T. Kerr, Attorney General of Wyoming,
with whom Messrs. Harold I. Bacheller, Deputy Attorney
General, Arthur Kline, Assistant Attorney General, James

A. Greenwood, and W. J. Wehrli were on the brief, for
complainant.
Mr. Byron G. Rogers, Attorney General of Colorado,
with whom Messrs. Ralph L. Carr, Governor, Henry E.
Lutz, Deputy Attorney General, Schrader P. Howell, Assistant Attorney General, Clifford H. Stone, Jean S.
Breitenstein, Albert P. Fischer, Robert G. Smith, and
Lawrence R. Temple were on the briefs, for defendant.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The State of Wyoming sought leave to file its petition
for a rule requiring the State of Colorado to show cause
why it should not be adjudged in contempt for violation
of the decree in this suit, restraining diversions of water
from the Laramie river. 259 U. S. 419, 496; 260 U. S. 1;
286 U. S. 494; 298 U. S. 573.
In response, Colorado asked that evidence be taken to
determine the amount of return flow to the Laramie
river from the diversions at the headgates of meadowland
ditches and that Colorado have credit therefor. This
matter had been considered by the Court in framing its

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

decree (298 U. S. pp. 581, 582) and the motion was
denied. Leave was granted to Wyoming to file its petition and Colorado was directed to show cause accordingly.
Two returns have been filed on behalf of Colorado,
one by the Governor of the State setting forth his executive order directing the withdrawal of the appearance of
the Attorney General and appointing special counsel to
represent the State, and another return by the Attorney
General who challenges the authority of the Governor
to supersede him. In the view we take of the material
matters presented, we find no such differences between
the two returns as to require us to determine the question
of authority.
Wyoming charges that from May 1, 1939, to June 18,
1939, Colorado diverted from the Laramie river 39,865.43
acre feet, that is, somewhat in excess of the total of
39,750 acre feet allocated to Colorado by our decree;
that thereupon, and on June 19, 1939, Colorado closed the
headgates of the various ditches involved; that on June
22, 1939, in violation of the decree, Colorado opened the
headgates and permitted the diversion between June 22,
1939, and July 11, 1939, of 12,673 acre feet in excess of
the 39,750 acre feet allowed; and that in particular, with
respect to meadowland ditches, Colorado permitted the
diversion between May 1, 1939, and July 11, 1939, of
24,775 acre feet above the 4250 acre feet (measured at
the headgates) specifically allowed for the meadowland
appropriations. 298 U. S. p. 586.
In defense, Colorado contends that the meadowland
diversions in excess of 4250 acre feet were in accordance
with Colorado law and were not "inconsistent with the
decree of this Court until a diversion by Colorado from
the Laramie river for all purposes reached the allocated
total of 39,750; that the diversion of an amount greater
than that total during the period above specified was with

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
572

Opinion of the Court.

the acquiescence of Wyoming; and that Wyoming has
not been injured.
Colorado pledges that hereafter its officials will administer the flow of the Laramie river in that State in accordance with Colorado laws and adjudication decrees until
a total amount of 39,750 acre feet, measured at the headgates, has been diverted, and, when that total has been
reached in any year, Colorado can and will close the
headgates and keep them closed during the remainder of
the irrigation season.
In support of the contention that the diversion of more
than 4250 acre feet for the meadowland appropriations
should not be regarded as a violation of our decree, if
the aggregate diversions in Colorado do not exceed the
total allowed, Colorado presents a declaratory judgment
of the District Court of that State for the County of
Laramie, entered February 2, 1939, in the suit of Adelrick Benziger v. The Water Supply & Storage Company,
et al. That suit was brought on behalf of the meadowland appropriators in Colorado, and the defendants were
the other appropriators in that State whose respective
appropriations had been the subject of consideration in
the suit in this Court. Our rulings were examined by
the state court which concluded that they were intended
to, and did, determine only the relative rights of the two
States to divert the waters of the Laramie river and its
tributaries and that it was not our purpose to withdraw
the appropriations and water claims in Colorado from
the operation of its local laws or to restrict the utilization
of the waters in any way "not affecting the rights of the
State of Wyoming and her water claimants." Accordingly the state court held that the fixing in our decree
of the meadowland appropriations was intended only to
bear upon the relative rights of the States and was not
intended to be an adjudication of the relative rights of
the decreed appropriations in Colorado; hence, that so

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

long as the aggregate of the water diverted in Colorado
does not exceed the total of 39,750 acre feet accredited
to the Colorado appropriations, as stated, they are subject to the laws of Colorado. In that view the Court
adjudged that the meadowland appropriators and the defendant appropriators were entitled to divert according
to their respective priorities until they reached the
amount of 39,750 acre feet, and that when that amount
had been diverted "all headgates are to be closed for the
balance of the season."
A review of our decisions confirms the construction
thus placed upon them. Suit was brought in 1911 to
prevent a proposed diversion in Colorado of the walters
of the Laramie river, an interstate stream. Voluminous
evidence was taken, the case was thrice argued, and a
final decision was rendered in 1922. 259 U. S. 419. After
an elaborate consideration of the physical features of the
region and the principles applicable to a determination of
the rights of the respective States, the Court concluded
that as both States had adopted the doctrine of appropriation, it was equitable to apply that doctrine and to
determine their respective rights according to the rule
of priority. The Court examined the evidence with respect to the flow of the stream, its variations, and other
relevant matters, and found that the available supply288,000 acre feet-was not sufficient to satisfy the Wyoming appropriations and also the proposed Colorado appropriation. The Court found that there were some
existing Colorado appropriations entitled to precedence
over many of those in Wyoming. These included 18,000
acre feet for what was known as the Skyline Ditch and
4250 acre feet for meadowland appropriators. These were
not to be deducted, as the 288,000 acre feet was the
available supply after they were satisfied. The proposed
Colorado appropriation which was in controversy in the
suit was that known as the Laramie-Poudre Tunnel di-

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
572

Opinion of the Court.

version, a part of an irrigation project known as the
Laramie-Poudre project. The evidence showed that the
Wyoming appropriations having priorities senior to the
one in Colorado, and which were dependent on the available supply above specified, required 272,500 acre feet.
Deducting that from the available 288,000 acre feet there
remained 15,500 acre feet which were subject to the proposed appropriation in Colorado. Accordingly a decree
was entered enjoining the defendants from diverting more
than 15,500 acre feet annually from the Laramie river
through the Laramie-Poudre project. The decree provided that it should not prejudice the right of Colorado,
or of anyone recognized by her as entitled thereto, to continue to divert 18,000 acre feet through the Skyline Ditch
and 4250 acre feet through the meadowland appropriations. 259 U. S. pp. 496, 497. Soon after, this decree
was modified so as not to prejudice a diversion by Colorado for the Wilson Supply Ditch (260 U. S. 1), a diversion which amounted to 2000 acre feet. 298 U. S. p. 580.
In this way the total allowed to Colorado amounted to
39,750 acre feet.
In 1931, Wyoming brought another suit in this Court,
alleging that Colorado was permitting excessive diversions
and seeking the protection and quieting of Wyoming's
rights under the former decree. Wyoming asked provision for accurately measuring and recording the quantities
of water diverted and also an injunction restraining excessive diversions, if it were held that the former decree
related only to the diversion by the Laramie-Poudre Tunnel appropriation. Motion to dismiss the bill was denied.
We held that the former decree should be taken as determining the relative rights of the two States, including
their respective citizens, to divert and use the waters of
the Laramie and its tributaries; that the limited injunction did not warrant an inference that it marked "the
limits of what was intended to be decided," but that the
215234*-40-37

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

decree did define the quantity of water which Colorado
and her appropriators might divert "from the interstate
stream and its tributaries and thus withhold from Wyoming and her appropriators." 286 U. S. 494, 506-508.
Final hearing was had and the case was decided in
1936. 298 U. S. 573. Wyoming contended that while the
decree fixed the amount of the diversions under the
meadowland appropriations in Colorado at 4250 acre feet,
the actual diversions had ranged from 36,000 to 62,000 acre
feet. Colorado answered that the greater part of this
water was returned to. the stream through surface drainage and percolation and that the part actually consumed
did not exceed the amount which the decree allowed. The
Court said that the amount of 4250 acre feet had been
fixed as the measure of the meadowland appropriations
because it was deemed sufficient for that purpose "when
the water is rightly and not wastefully applied." The
Court referred to the wasteful process that had been used.
It was said that when water is so applied a considerable
portion ultimately finds its way back into the stream, but
that it was also true "that a material percentage of the
water is lost by evaporation and other natural processes
and there is no way of determining with even approximate certainty how much of the water returns to the
stream." The Court then held that the decree referred
to the water taken from the stream "at the point of diversion, and not to the variable and uncertain part of it
that is consumptively used." As it was plainly shown
that diversions were being made under the meadowland
appropriations in quantities largely in excess of the
amount fixed in the decree, an injunction issued forbidding
further departures from the decree in that regard. Id., pp.
581, 582.
With respect to the request for an order permitting
Wyoming to install measuring devices for the purpose of

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
572

Opinion of the Court.

determining the amount of water diverted in Colorado,
the Court recognized that the problem of measuring and
recording the diversions was a difficult one and the hope
was expressed that the two States by co6perative efforts
would find a satisfactory solution. Leave was granted to
Wyoming to make a later application if the States were
unable to agree. Id., pp. 585, 586. It seems that measuring devices have been installed.
While an injunction was thus granted with respect to
diversions for the meadowland appropriations in excess
of 4250 acre feet, this was manifestly upon the assumption
that Colorado was otherwise using the total amount of
water allocated to that State. That it was not intended
to restrict Colorado in determining the use of the water
of the river, according to Colorado laws and adjudications,
provided the diversions did not exceed the aggregate
amount of 39,750 acre feet tq which Colorado was entitled, is clear from the ruling upon another branch of
the case. It appeared that the diversion for the Skyline
Ditch had been above the amount allowed therefor, but
that other diversions were less, so that, eliminating the
excessive meadowland diversions, the aggregate allowance
to the State would not be exceeded. Hence the Court
found that it must consider Colorado's contention "that,
consistently with the decree, she lawfully may permit diversions under any of the recognized appropriations in
excess of its accredited quantity, so long as the total diversions under all do not exceed the aggregate of the
quantities accredited to them severally." Id., p.' 583.
The Court noted that in both Colorado and Wyoming
water rights were transferable and that the use of the
water may be changed from the irrigation of one tract to
the irrigation of another, if the change does not injure
other appropriators; that these rules were but incidental
to the doctrine of appropriation, prevailing in both

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

309 U. S.

States, upon which the decree had been based. The
Court observed that it was not its purpose "to withdraw
water claims dealt with therein from the operation of
local laws relating to their transfer or to restrict their
utilization in ways not affecting the rights of one State
and her claimants as against the other State and her
claimants." It was found that the diversions through
the transmountain ditches had been made with the consent of the owners of the water rights and with the full
sanction of Colorado, and hence the situation was not
different from what it would have been if the owners of
other claims had formally transferred parts of their water
rights to the Skyline owners. The Court said: "But the
Skyline owners are now permitted by the owners of the
other claims and by Colorado to take and use part of the
waters included in those claims. Wyoming and her claimants are in no way injured by this. No departure from
the decree is involvecL The thing which the decree
recognizes and confirms is 'the right of the State of Colorado, or of anyone recognized by her as duly entitled
thereto, . . . to divert and take' the water included in
the designated appropriations." The Court concluded
that in the circumstances shown the Skyline Ditch diversions did not constitute an infraction of the decree.
Id., pp. 584, 585.
It is plain that the principle of this ruling, as applied
to the transmountain appropriations which diverted the
water of the Laramie river to another watershed, would
certainly also apply to the meadowland appropriations
within the same watershed, where part of the water diverted may find its way back to the stream. The limitation of the meadowland appropriations to 4250 acre
feet was to keep the diversions in Colorado within the
amount allowed to that State, not to prevent the distribution of the water thus allowed, according to Colorado

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
572

Opinion of the Court.

laws, where there was no infraction of the rights of
Wyoming and her water claimants.
We conclude that the decree is not violated in any
substantial sense so long as Colorado does not divert
from the Laramie river and its tributaries more than
39,750 acre feet per annum.
In 1939, however, Colorado diverted more than that
total amount. Apparently no question had been raised
by Wyoming as to the diversions in 1937 and 1938. It
is undisputed that when the diversions in 1939 reached
39,865.43 acre feet on June 19th, Colorado closed the
headgates of the various appropriations within that State.
But Wyoming alleges that Colorado wrongfully permitted
the headgates to be reopened on June 22d and to remain
open until July 11th, thus permitting the diversion of
12,673 acre feet in excess of the aggregate amount allowed
to Colorado, despite Wyoming's protest. That there was
this excessive diversion is not controverted.
Colorado insists that Wyoming has not been injured.
But such a defense is not admissible. After great consideration, this Court fixed the amount of water from
the Laramie river and its tributaries to which Colorado
was entitled. Colorado is bound by the decree not to
permit a greater withdrawal and, if she does so, she violates the decree and is not entitled to raise any question
as to injury to Wyoming when the latter insists upon
her adjudicated rights. If nothing further were shown,
it would be our duty to grant the petition of Wyoming
and to adjudge Colorado in contempt for her violation
of the decree.
But Colorado insists that the diversion of more than
the allocated total during the season of 1939 was with
Wyoming's acquiescence. That is the sole available defense. To support it, Colorado has presented affidavits
showing communications between an association of

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

582

Syllabus.

309 U. S.

meadowland appropriators and the special hydrographer
of Wyoming and also stating that at a conference in
the office of the Governor of Colorado on July 1, 1939,
the officers of Wyoming said that they had no objection
to continued diversions being made through the meadowland ditches for the reason that a great portion of the
water so diverted returned to the Laramie river to be
used downstream by Wyoming appropriators. Wyoming
presents affidavits to the contrary, setting forth her demands. It is unnecessary to review in detail the points
in controversy. In the light of all the circumstances,
we think it sufficiently appears that there was a period
of uncertainty and room for misunderstanding which may
be considered in extenuation. In the future there will
be no ground for any possible misapprehension based upon
views of the effect of the meadowland diversions or otherwise with respect to the duty of Colorado to keep her
total diversions from the Laramie river and its tributaries
within the limit fixed by the decree.
For the reasons stated, the petition of Wyoming is
denied, the costs to be equally divided.
Petition denied.
WESTERN

UNION TELEGRAPH

NESTER

COMPANY v.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 597.

Argued March 8, 1940.-Decided April 22, 1940.

A telegraph company undertook to transmit a money order, the
contract providing that it should not be liable for damages for
delay or non-payment, though due to negligence, "beyond the sum
of five hundred dollars, at which amount the right to have this
money order promptly and correctly transmitted and promptly
and fully paid is hereby valued." Held, that the sum specified
was not intended to prescribe a definite liability (liquidated dam-

