CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.

NEW JERSEY ET AL. v. NEW YORK, SUSQUEHANNA
& WESTERN RAILROAD CO.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 104.

Argued December 11, 1962.-Decided February 18, 1963.

Appellee railroad operates trains solely within the State of New
Jersey; but it estimates that nearly 90% of its passengers travel
to and from New York City via connecting buses owned and operated by a corporation unaffiliated but under contract with appellee.
After discontinuing most of its passenger trains with the permission
of the Public Utilities Commission of New Jersey, appellee filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission notice of its intention
to discontinue all passenger service. On motion of.appellants, the
Interstate -Commerce Commission dismissed the.hotice for want
of jurisdiction. Held: The proceeding involved only trains "operated wholly within the boundaries of a single State," within the
meaning of § 13a (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act, and it was
properly dismissed for want of initial jurisdiction in the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Pp. 2-9.
200 F. Supp. 860, reversed.

William Gural, Deputy Attorney General of New Jersey, argued the cause for appellants. With him on the
briefs was Arthur J. Sills, Attorney General.
Vincent P. Biunno argued the cause for appellee.
him on the brief was CharlesH. Hoens, Jr.
692-437 0-63-5

With
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

-

372 U. S.

Solicitor GeneralCox, Assistant Attorney General Loevinger, Robert B. Hummel, Irwin A. Seibel, Robert W.
Ginnane and H. Neil Gareon filed a brief for the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, urging
reversal.
Briefs of amici curiae, urging reversal, were filed by
Clarence M. Mulholland,Edward J. Hickey, Jr.and James
L. Highsaw, Jr. for Railway Labor Executives' Association, and by Austin L. Roberts, Jr. for National Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This direct appeal. from a three-judge District Court
involves the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
-',Commission to permit discontinuance of trains operated
by the appellee railroad wholly within the State of New
Jersey. At isue is whether the discontinuance procedures of § 13a (1) or § 13a (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act. (72 Stat. 571-572, 49 U. S. C. §§ 13a (1),
13a (2)) are to be followed.
,Appellee, New York, Susquehanna & Western Railroad Co., operates passenger trains between Butler, New
Jersey, and Susquehanna Transfer, in North Bergen, New
Jers'ey. Connecting buses, carrying only.train passengers,
run between North Bergen and the Port of New York
Authority Bus Terminal in Manhattan. The buses are
owned and operated by Public Service Coordinated Transport, a New Jersey corporation'unaffiliated but under contract with appellee. According to appellee, nearly 90%
of its passengers travel to and from New York.
" As recently as 1956, appellee operated 30 passenger
trains eastbound and 30 westbound on weekdays and 17
or 18 in each direction on weekends. Because of financial difficulties and continued losses on passenger train

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK, S. & W. R. CO. 3
1

Opinion of the Court.

operations, appellee has, with the permission of the Public
Utilities Commission of New Jersey, reduced the number
of trains from time to time so that it now operates only
three trains in each direction on weekdays and none on
weekends. The last reduction was authorized on July 14,
1960.
On December 30, 1960, appellee filed a notice with the
Interstate Commerce Commission stating that it would
discontinue all passenger train service .on January 30,
1961. On January 9, 1961, appellants petitioned the
Interstate Commerce Commission to dismiss the case
without prejudice. Since appellee operated trains solely
in New Jersey, appellants argued that the case was not,
in the first instance, within the jurisdiction of the Commission. The Commission agreed and, on January 18,
dismissed the notice for want of jurisdiction. Appellee
then brought this suit in the United States District Court
for the District of New Jersey to challenge the dismissal.
A three-judge court was designated in accordance with
28 U. S. C. §§ 2321-2325 and 2284. The court, one judge
dissenting, set aside the Commission's order. 200 F.
Supp. 860. New Jersey appealed directly to this Court
under 28 U. S. C. § 1253, and we noted probable jurisdiction. 370 U. S. 933.
The question presented is whether the procedure for
discontinuing trains set forth in § 13a (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act is available to the appellee railroad
as the court below held, or whether it must follow that
set forth in § 13a (2) of the Act. Section 13a (1) relates
to "the discontinuance . . . of the operation or service
of any train or ferry operating from a point in one State
to a point in any other State." A railroad proceeding
under this section must first file notices of the proposed
discontinuance with the Interstate Commerce Commission, with the Governors of the States in which the train
operates, and in every station served by the train. After

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

30 days, the railroad may discontinue the train unless the
Commission has decided to investigate the discontixiuance.
The Commission may require the railroad to continue
operations, pending its investigation, for an additional
four months. It also may, at the conclusion of the investigation, order service continued for another year, if it is
"required by public convenience and necessity" and if it
''will not unduly burden interstate . . . commerce."
SectiOn 13a (2) governs "the discontinuance . . . of
the operation or service of any train or ferry operated
wholly within the boundaries of a single State." Under
this section, the railroad is first required to seek relief
from the appropriate state agency. Only after the state
agency has denied the application of discontinuance, or
has let 120 days elapse from the time the application was
filed without actini, can. the railroad seek authority from
the Interstate Commerce Commission to discontinue the
train. The Commission "may grant such authority only
after full hearing."
A comparison of the language of § 13a (1), which
applies to "any train . . . operating from a point in one
State to a point in any other State" (italics supplied), and
of § 13a (2), which applies to "any train . . . operated
wholly within the boundarie&of a single State" (italics
sttpplied), makes it clear that the statute, on its face,
requires appellee to proceed under the latter section.
Appellee's trains do not run "from a point in one State
to a point in any other State." That appellee's passengers, by other conveyances, cross a state line does not
alter the conclusion; the-statute speaks not of interstate
commerce but of the physical limits of a train's or ferry's
operations.1
'Apparently

one ground for the decision below was the belief

(1) that "operation or service" of a train included bus service or
(2) that "train" included a bug extension. As to the first, it should
be noted that the Interstate Commerce Commission has decided, in

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK, S. & W. R. CO.

5

Opinion of the Court.

Any doubt about this construction of the statute is
dispelled by an examination of its legislative history.
Section 13a was enacted by Congress as part of the
Transportation Act of 1958. The legislative history of
that Act reveals Congress' concern about the financial
plight of railroads, attributable in part to the losses sustained in operating passenger trains. To discontinue
these trains before the enactment of § 13a, the railroads
were required in all cases to seek authority from each of
the States served. See 104 Cong. Rec. 10842-10843,
10851. Without concurrence of all the States affected,
the railroad might be compelled to continue operations.
despite serious losses. The Interstate Commerce Commission was able to give only partial relief.f It could
authorize the total abandonment of a line of railroad
under § 1 (18) of the Act, even if the line was wholly
within the boundaries of one State. Colorado v. United
States, 271 U. S. 153. However the Commission could
not permit partial discontinuance of service over a line
of railroad, whether the line crossed state boundaries or
not. Board of Public Utility Comm'rs of New Jersey v.
United States, 158 F. Supp. 98, probable jurisdiction
noted, 357 U. S.917, dismissed as moot, 359 U S. 982.1
interpreting J 1 (18) of the Act, that appellee's bus service to New
York is not part of a "line of railroad" and that appellee need not
obtain a certificate of public convenience and necessity before providing the bus transportation. New York, S. & W. R. Co Common
Carrier Application, 46 M. C. C. 713, 725. Admittedly "line of
railroad" is a different term from "operation or service of any train."
However we should be loath to suggest that a train could operate
where no line of railroad existed.
As to the second alternative, it is answer enough to note that the
statute reads "any train or ferry." No mention of "bus" is made.
2 The railroads appealing to this Court did not take issue with the
Interstate Commerce Commission decisions holding that the Commission lacked power to authorize partial discontinuances. They
argued that instead of partially discontinuing service they were
abandoning a line of railroad.

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

See Palmer v. Massachusetts, 308 U. S. 79, 84-85. Thus
the Commission could not permit discontinuance of passenger operations while the railroad continued to carry
freight over the same line.3
As initially proposed in the Senate, the Interstate Commerce Commission would have had power under § 13a
to permit discontinuance "of the operation or service of
any train or ferry engaged in the transportation of passengers or property in interstate, foreign and intrastate
commerce . . . or of the operation or service of any station, depot or other facility." S. 3778, 85th Cong., 2d
Sess. Opposition to the bill focused upon the reduction
of state powers to control local train operations. E. g.,
104 Cong. Rec. 10850. A compromise amendment in the
Senate changed § 13a so that the Commission's power
would extend only to "any train or ferry engaged in the
transportation of passengers or property in interstate or
foreign commerce." 104 Cong. Rec. 10862-10866. Reference to intrastate transportation was eliminated. And
as finally reported out of conference, the Act was in its
present form. The Interstate Commerce Commission's
jurisdiction was limited, in the first instance, to the "discontinuance . . . of the operation or service of any train
8In the Board of Public Utility Comm'rs of New Jersey case the
three-judge District Court held that the Interstate Commerce Commission could not allow the New York Central Railroad to discontinue
its passenger ferries across the Hudson River, while continuing to
operate ferries for freight, if the ferries were all part of the same
line of railroad. (Under § 1 (3) of the Act, the term "railroad"
includes "ferries used by or operated in connection with any railroad.")
After Congress passed § 13a, the New York Central Railroad, among
others, succeeded in eliminating its Hudson River passenger ferries.
See New Jersey v. United States, 168 F. Supp. 324, aff'd per curiam,
359 U. S. 27. In fact, the New York Central Railroad claimed that
its inability to discontinue the passenger ferries was the reason Congress enacted § 13a. 168 F. Supp., at 337, n. 1.

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK, S. & W. R. CO. 7
Opinion of the Court.

or ferry operating from a point in one State to a point in
any othei State."
Senator Smathers, the Chairman of the Surface Transportation Subcommittee of the Senate Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee, said, in describing th6
Senate compromise amendment, that:
"any train which operates within a State, whose
origin and destination are within the State-that is,
any train with intrastate characteristics-together
with the facilities used by the train, shall be completely under the authority of the State public
utilities commission." 104 Cong. Rec. 10852.'
Congressman Harris, Chairman of the House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee, similarly interpreted
the more restrictive House version, H. R. 12832. 5 He said
the Interstate Commerce Commission was limited to
authorizing the discontinuance
"of a train or ferry on a line of railroad not located
wholly within a single State. This limitation is
contained in the bill being reported because the
4Apparently those who were concerned with the protection of the
rights of the States were not satisfied with the compromise amendment, perhaps because it retained the phrase "engaged in the trans-

portation of passengers or property in interstate .

.

.'commerce."

In any event, they were successful in obtaining the omission of any
reference to transportation ininterstate commerce, since the Act as
passed limited Interstate Commerce Commission jurisdiction, in the
first instance, to the discontinuance of "any train . . .operating from

a point in one State to a point in any other State."
1H. R. 12832 provided that: "this section [§ 13a] shall not apply
to the operations of or services performed by any carrier by railroad
on a line of railroad located wholly within a single State." 104 Cong.
Rec. 12547. Also, the House bill eliminated the Interstate Commerce
Commission's jurisdiction over discontinuance of stations, depots and
other facilities, leaving the state regulatory agencies' power untouched.
Thischange, embodied in the Act, is additional evidence of Congress'
intent to leave regulation of local operations to the States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

372 U. S.

committee feels that the record at this time does not
support the broader change in venue, requested by
the railroads, which would have covered Interstate
Commerce Commission jurisdiction also over operations more local in character, such as those of a
branch line or other line of railroad located solely
within one State." 104 Cong. Rec. 12533.
Congressman Harris repeatedly stated that even if the
train in question operated on an interstate line, the state
regulatory agency would have jurisdiction if the train
started and ended within the State. 104 Cong. Rec.
12530, 12542.
Finally, Senator Smathers' comments, made after the
Senate-House Conference changed the bill to its present
form, should be noted. He said:
"w.' protected the right of the States .. . by leaving
to the State regulatory agencies the right to regulate
and have a final decision with respect to the discontinuance of train service which originated and ended
within one particular State, except when it could be
established that intrastate service was a burden on
interstate commerce.
"In addition, the Senate receded on a provision
under which we had given the Interstate Commerce
Commission jurisdiction also to discontinue service
in depots, terminals, and other such facilities in connection with the operation of railroads. We left
that matter in the hands of the State regulatory
agencies." 104 Cong. Rec. 15528.
It is clear to us from this history, as it was to the Commission, that Congress intended to, and did, leave "[j] urisdiction over trains operating wholly within a single
State . . . with State regulatory commissions."
The court below disregarded the plain words of the
statute and what we believe is the pertinent legislative

NEW JERSEY v. NEW YORK, S. & W. R. CO.
1

9

Opinion of the Court.

history and rested its decisiorn on the ground that to apply
§ 13a (1) so restrictively would "thwartthe apparent purpose of the Congress in adopting it." 200 F. Supp., at
864. That purpose was, as the court below observed,
remedial. But it was conditioned by a desire to protect
state jurisdiction over local operations. To ignore this
we conclude was error. Therefore the judgment of the
court below must be
Reversed.

