WEIGLE v. CURTICE BROTHERS CO.
276.

Syllabus.

ject, in the state courts of last resort the question has
arisen and been passed upon, resulting in every case in
the recognition of the principle, that in the absence of an
express command to the contrary the two-thirds vote of
the house required to pass a bill over a veto is the twothirds of a quorum of the body as empowered to perform
other legislative duties. Farmers Union Warehouse Co.
v. McIntoch, 1 Ala. App. 407; State v. McBride, 4 Missouri, 303; Southworth v. Palmyra & Jackson R. R. Co.,
2 Michigan, 287; Smith v. Jennings, 67 S. Car. 324;
Green v. Weller, 32 Mississippi, 650. We say that the
decisions have been without difference, for the insistence
that the ruling in Minnesota ex rel. Eastland v. Gould, 31
Minnesota, 189, is to the contrary, is a wholly mistaken
one, since the decision in that case was that as the state
constitution required a vote of the majority of all the
members elected to the house to pass a law, the two-thirds
vote necessary to override a veto was a two-thirds vote
of the same body.
Any further consideration of the subject is unnecessary, and our order must be, and is
Judgment affirmed.

WEIGLE v. CURTICE BROTHERS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE tNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 83. Argued December 17, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
As respects domestic retail sales of secondary packages, or the contents
thereof, out of the original packages in which they were imported in
interstate commerce, state laws forbidding sale of food articles
containing benzoate of soda are not inconsistent with the commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

clause or the purpose of the Federal Food and Drugs Act, although
the preservative, a, used, is allowed by the federal act and regulations and the containers are labeled in conformity therewith.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Wab er H. Bender, Deputy Attorney General of the
State of'Wisconsin, with whom Mr. Spencer Haven, Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin, and Mr. J. E.
Messerschmidt, Assistant Attorney General of the State of
Wisconsin, were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. H. 0. Fairchildfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill in equity brought by Curtice Brothers
Company, a New York corporation, to restrain Weigle,
the Dairy and Food Commissioner of Wisconsin, from
enforcing certain laws of the State, especially Statutes of
1913, ยง 4601g. That section makes it unlawful to sell any
article of food that contains benzoic acid or benzoates,
with qualifications not material here. The plaintiff makes
such articles from fruit, and adds benzoate of soda as a
preservative. It puts them up in glass bottles and jars
properly labelled under the Food and Drugs Act (June 30,
1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768), packs the bottles and jars in
wooden cases containing a number of the same, and ships
the cases from its factory in New York to customers in
Wisconsin among others. Of course the single bottles are
sold in the retail trade, and their contents are served to
guests in restaurants and hotels. The defendant disavowed any contention that the state laws affected or
purported to affect sales by the importer in the unbroken
wooden packages containing the bottles and the decree

WEIGLE v. CURTICE BROTHERS CO.
285.

Opinion of the Court.

treated that subject as taken out of the case. But the
bill went farther and setting up a decision, incorporated in
a regulation under the Food and Drugs Act, that benzoate
of soda is not injurious to health and that objection would
not be raised to it under the act if each container should be
plainly labelled, contended that under the Food and
Drugs Act and the Commerce Clause of the Constitution,
the Wisconsin law was invalid even as applied to domestic
retail sales of single bottles or the contents of single bottles
of the plaintiff's goods. The defendant stood on a motion
to dismiss and the District Court made a decree following
the prayer of the bill. The defendant appealed.
The argument in support of the decree contends in
various forms that the sale of the individual bottles, when
removed from the original package after entering the
State, still is a part of commerce among the States, since
the act of Congress as to misbranding applies to them.
But the Food and Drugs Act does not change or purport
to change the moment at which an object ceases to move
in interstate commerce. It imposes an obligation to label
the bottles severally, although contained in one original
package, as of course it may. Seven Cases of Eckman's
Alterative v. United States, 239 U. S. 510, 515, 516. It
provides for seizure and condemnation of misbranded or
adulterated articles that have been transported from one
State to another, although the transit is at an end, while the
articles remain unsold or in original unbroken packages,
As again it may. There is no reason why a lien ex delicto
should be lost by the end of the journey in which the
wrong was done. The two things have no relation to
each other. Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S.
45, 57, 58. Finally, the duty to retain the label upon the
single bottles does not disappear at once. For reasons
stated in McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115, if the
State could require the label to be removed while the
bottles remained in the importer's hands unsold, it could

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the'Court.

248 U. S.

interfere with the means reasonably adopted by Congress
to make its regulations obeyed. But all this has nothing
to do with the question when interstate commerce is over
and the articles carried in it have come under the general
power of the State. The law upon that point has undergone no change.
The Food and Drugs Act indicates its intent to respect
the recognized line of distinction between domestic and
interstate commerce too clearly to need argument or an
examination of its language. It naturally wo,'d, as the
distinction is constitutional. The fact that a food or
drug might be condemned by Congress if it passed from
State to State, does not carry an immunity of foods or
drugs, making the same passage, that it does not condemn.
Neither the silence of Congress nor the decisions of officers
of the United States have any authority beyond the domain established by the Constitution. Rast v. Van Deman
& Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 362. When objects of commerce get within the sphere of state legislation the State
may exercise its independent judgment and prohibit what
Congress did not see fit to forbid. When they get within
that sphere is determined, as we have said, by the old
long-established criteria. The Food and Drugs Act does
not interfere with state regulation of selling at retail.
Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S. 510, 517; McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115, 131. Such regulation
is not an attempt to supplement the action of Congress in
interstate commerce but the exercise of an authority outside of that commerce that always has remained in the
States.
Decree reversed.

