UNION PAC. R. R. CO. i,. PUB3. SERVICE COMM.

67

Argument for Defendant in Error.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION OF MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.
No. 65. Argued November 19, 20, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.
A Utah corporation, operating an extensive railroad through several
States, with but slight mileage, and small proportion of its property, and no intrastate business, in Missouri, seeking to issue over
$30,000,000 bonds under mortgage of its whole line to meet expenditures incurred but in small part in that State,.was charged for
the privilege, by a Missouri commission, over $10,000, calculated by a
percentage of the entire issue. Held, a direct, unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce. P. 69.
This court must examine for itself whether there is any basis in fact
for a finding by a state court that a constitutional right has been
waived. P. 69.
Where a State exacted an unconstitutional fee for a certificate of
authority to issue railroad bonds, under statutes threatening heavy
penalties and purporting to invalidate the bonds, and so rendering
them unmarketable, if the certificate were not obtained, held, that
application for and acceptance of the certificate, with payment
under protest, were made under duress. P. 70.
268 Missouri, 641, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. H. Loomis, with whom Mr. Henry W. Clark
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. A. Z. Patterson, with whom Mr. Win. G. Busby
and Mr. James D-. Lindsay were on the brief, for defendant
in error:
This court has no jurisdiction because the alleged
federal question did not control nor even affect the decision of the state court. This court has repeatedly

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

2-18 U. S.

ruled that where a state court has decided against the
plaintiff in error on a matter of general law broad enough
to sustain the judgment, this court will not consider the
federal questions, even in cases where the state court
actually considered and decided such questions adversely
to plaintiff in error's contention.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This case concerns the validity of a charge made by
the Public Service Commission of Missouri for a certificate authorizing the issue of bonds secured by a mortgage
of the whole line of the Union Pacific road. The statutes
of Missouri have general prohibitions against the issue
of such bonds without the authority of the Commission,
impose severe penalties for such issue and purport to
invalidate the bonds if it takes place. Moreover the bonds
would be unmarketable if the certificate were refused.
Upon these considerations the plaintiff in error appiied,
in all the States through which its line passed, for a
certificate authorizing the issue of bonds to the amount
of $31,848,900. The Missouri Commission granted the
authority and charged a fee of $10,962.25. The Railroad
Company accepted the grant as required by its terms,
but protested in writing against the charge as an un-.
constitutional interference with interstate commerce,
and gave notice that it paid under duress to escape the
statutory penalties and to prevent the revocation of the
certificate. It moved for a rehearing on the ground that
the statutes of Missouri, if they gave the Commission
jurisdiction, did not purport to authorize the charge, or,
if they did purport to do so and to invalidate an issue
without the Commission's assent, were in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States. The rehearing
was denied and thereupon the Railroad, pursuant to
state law, applied to a local Court for a certiorari to set

UNION PAC. R. 11. CO. v. PUB. SERVICE, COMM.
67.

Opinion

69

of the Court.

the Commission's judgment aside as an interference
with interstate commerce and as bad under the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court decided that the charge
was unreasonable and that the minimum statutory fee of
$250 should have been charged. On appeal by the Commission the Supreme Court held the Railroad estopped
by its application, reversed the Court below and upheld the charge. 268 Missouri, 641.
The Railroad Company is a Utah corporation having
a line over thirty-five hundred miles long, extending
through several States, from. Kansas City, Missouri,
and elsewhere, to Ogden, Utah. It has only about sixtenths of one mile of main track in Missouri, and its total
property there is valued at a little more than three million
dollars, out of a total valuation of over two hundred and
eighty-one millions. The bonds were to reimburse the
Company for expenditures of which again less thanoone
hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars had been made
in Missouri.

The business done by the Railroad in

Missouri is wholly interstate. O these facts it is plain, on
principles now established, that the charge, which, in
accordance with the letter of the Missouri statutes, was
fixed by a percentage on the total issue contemplated,
was an unlawful interference with commerce arhong the
States. Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178, 188. InternationalPaper Co. v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135.
The Supreme Court of the State avoided this question
by holding that the application to the Commission was
voluntary and hence that the Railroad Company was
estopped to decline to pay the statutory -compensation.
It is argued that a decision on this ground excludes the
jurisdiction of this Court. But the later decisions show
that. such, is not the law and that on the contrary it is
the duty of this Court to examine for itself whether there
is any basis in the admitted facts, or in the evidence
when the facts are in dispute, for a finding that the federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1918;
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

right has been waived. Creswill v. Knights of Pythias,
225 U. S. 246. Were it otherwise, as conduct under
duress involves a choice, it always would be possible
for a State to impose an unconstitutional burden by the
threat of penalties worse than it in case of a failure to
accept it, and then to declare the acceptance voluntary,
as was attempted in Ak hison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry.
Co. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280.
On the facts we can have no doubt that the application
for a certificate and the acceptance of it were made under
duress. The certificate was a commercial necessity for
the issue of the bonds. The statutes, if applicable, purported to invalidate the bonds and threatened grave
penalties if the certificate was not obtained. The Railroad Company and its officials were not bound to take
the risk of these threats being verified. Of course, it was
for the interest of the Company to get the certificate.
It always is for the interest of a party under duress to
choose the lesser of two evils. But the fact that a cfoice
was made according to interest does not exclude duress.
It is the characteristic of duress properly so called. The
Eliza Lines, 199 U. S. 119, 130, 131. If, as may be, the
Supreme Court of the State regards or will regard this
statute as inapplicable, Public Service Commission v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co., 271 Missouri, 258, probably
the State would not wish to retain the charge, but we
repeat, the Railroad Company was not bound to take
the risk of the decision, and no proceeding has been pointed
out to us by which it adequately could have avoided
evils that made it practically impossible not to comply
with the terms of the law, Atchison, Topeka /& Santa Fe
Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280, 286.
Judgment reversed.

