OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

PAYNE ET AL. v. STATE OF KANSAS EX REL.
BREWSTER, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 49.

Argued November 15, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

A state law forbidding sale of farm produce on commission without a
license, to be procured upon a proper showing as to character, responsibility, etc., a bond conditioned to make honest accounting,
and payment of a fee of ten dollars, held consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment.
98 Kansas, 465, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Ray Campbell, with whom Mr. J. Graham Campbell
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. L. Hunt, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Kansas, with whom Mr. S. M. Brewster, Attorney General of the State of Kansas, Mr. S. N. Hawkes
and Mr. -T. F. Railsback, Assistant Attorneys General
of the State of Kansas, were on the brief, for defendant
in error.

Memorandum opinion by MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.
The validity of c. 371, Laws of Kansas, 1915-"An
act in relation to the sale of farm produce on commission "-is challenged by- certain grain dealers carrying on
business in that State. It forbids the sale of farm produce
on commission without an annual license, to be procured
from the State Board of Agriculture upon a proper showing as to character, responsibility, etc., and a bond
conditioned to make honest accounting. A fee of ten
dollars is required.

NICOULIN '. O'BRIEN.
112.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

Plaintiffs in error maintain that the statute is class
legislation which abridges their rights and privileges,
that it deprives them of the equal, protection of the laws
and also of their property without due process of lawall in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Manifestly, the purpose of the State was to prevent
certain evils incident to the business of commission
merchants in farm products by regulating it. Many
former opinions have pointed out the limitations upon
powers of the States concerning matters of this kind,
and we think the present record fails to show that these
limitations have been transcended. Rast v. Van Deman
& Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342; Brazee v. Michigan, 241 U.
S. 340; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

NICOULIN v. O'BRIEN.
ERROR

TO

THE COURT

OF

APPEALS

OF

THE

STATE

OF

KENTUCKY.
No. 113.

Submitted October 21, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

The territorial limits of Kentucky extend across the Ohio River to
low-water mark on the Indiana side, and no limitation on the power
of Kentucky to protect fish within those limits by proper legislation
resulted from the establishment of concurrent jurisdiction by the
Virginia Compact.
172 Kentucky, 473, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Augustvs Everett Willson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Richard Priest Dietzman and Mr. Edmund Andrew
Larkin were also on the brief.

