FLEXNER v. FARSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

FLEXNER v. FARSON ET AL., PARTNERS UNDER
THE NAME AND STYLE OF FARSON, SON &
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 101.

Submitted Decembek 18, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

A State has no power to provide that nonresident individuals, in suits
growing out of their business transacted within the State through a
local agent, shall be bound by process served upon him after the
agency is at an end; and a judgment against a firm of nonresidents,
based upon such service, is void. P. 293.
The power to make such provision as against foreign corporations
springs from the power to exclude such corporations from local business, whence, by fiction, the continued agency to receive service is
attributed to the corporation's implied consent; but there is no room
for implying consent in the case of nonresident natural persons,
since the power to exclude from local business does not exist as to
them. Id.
268 Illinois, 435, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jos. S. Laurent for plaintiff in error. Mr. Ralph
D. Stevenson and Mr. Robert G. Gordon were also on the
brief:
Subsection 6 of § 51, Kentucky Civil Code,' affords
due process of law and is not violative of the Federal Constitution.
"Due process of law" is not susceptible of any restricted
definition, but can be adapted to the changing conditions
'."In actions against an individual residing in another State, or a
partnership, association, or joint stock company, the members of which
reside in another State, engaged in business in this State, the summons
may be served on the manager, or agent of, or person in charge of, such
business in this State, in the county where the business is carried on,
or in the county where the cause of action occurred."

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

of, society and business. Any legal proceeding which is
consonant with natural justice in the light of present conditions affords due process of law. It does not require adherence to fixed rules of procedure.
Magna Charta,
§§ XXXIX and XL; Daniel Webster's Definition of "due
process of law;" Iowa Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S.
389; Black, Constitutional Law, pp. 571-572; Hurtado v.
California, 110 U. S. 516; 2 Words & Phrases (N. S.), p.
167; State v. Sponaugle, 45 W. Va. 415; Davidson v. New
Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Tenement House Department v.
Weil, 134 N. Y. Supp. 1062; Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S.
241; Guenther v. American Steel Hoop Co., 116 Kentucky,
5O. The decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois that
personal service of summons is essential to due process of
law is illogical and unsound when applied to different states
of fact. There are many proceedings which afford due
process of law although personal service of summons is not
made on the defendant. We refer to the proceedings in
rem for the attachment and sale of property (Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S. 714), and proceedings under the power of
eminent domain; also to proceedings under the taxing
power (Ballard v. Hunter, supra); and to suits against
infants and lunatics where the summons is served on the
guardian or committee. It has likewise been held that
summons may be left at the regular place of abode in
the State of a resident defendant and that such service
constitutes due process of law. McDonald v. Mabee, 243
U. S. 90. The facts and circumstances of each case must
be considered, and, if the proceeding is appropriate, reasonable and just, it will be upheld by the courts whether
it be a judgment in rem or in personam, and although personal service was not made on the defendant.
Any nonresident who carries on business in the State
through an agent impliedly assents and agrees that, in
suits growing out of the business, process may be
served upon him by service as provided in the statute;

FLEAINER, v. FAIISON.
289.

Argunwt for Plaintiff in Error.

the statute is impliedly written into every contract entered into in Kentucky under circumstances which make
it applicable. Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595; Grannis
v. Ordean, 234 U. S. 385; Guenther v. American Steel
Hoop Co., 116 Kentucky, 580; Johnson v. Westfield's
Admr., 143 Kentucky, 10; Alaska Commercial Co. v.
Deb'ney, 141 Fed. Rep. 1; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714,
734; In re Grossmayer, 177 U. S. 48; Wilson v. Seligman,
144 U. S. I1; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Con4inental National Bank v. Folsom, 78 Georgia, 449; Vallee
v. Dumergue (1849), 4 Exch. 290; Copin v. Adamson
(1874), L. R., 9 Exeh. 345; Bank of Australasia v. Nias
(1851), 16 Q. B. 717; Thomas v. Matthiessen, 232 U. S.
221; Mutual Reserve Fund Life Assn. v. Phelps, 190 U. S.
147.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment no distinction can
be made as to the validity of the judgment in the State
of rendition and in other States; if valid at home it is
valid everywhere. McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90.
The Kentucky law does not deny equal privileges and
immunities to the citizens of the several States. It applies
to all citizens alike who are nonresidents of the State. It is
well settled that a State may provide a mode of service
for nonresidents different from that which applies to residents. Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239; Conner v. Elliott,
18 How. 591; Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241; Watson v.
Nevin, 128 U. S. 578; Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68.
A State may validly provide by statute that process
against the members of a nonresident partnership may be
served on the agent who was in charge of their business
in said State and transacted the business in the State out
of which the suit arose, although such agent had ceased
to represent his principals at the time of the institution
of the suit; provided there be no other agent in the State
on whom process can be served. Nelson Morris v. Rehkopf & Sons, 25 Ky. 1aw Rep. 352; InternationalHarvester

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Co. v. Commonwealth, 147 Kentucky, 664; Fireman's
Ins. Co. v. Thompson, 155 Illinois, 204; Mutual Reserve
Fund Life Assn. v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147.
Mr. Harry P. Weber and Mr. George W. Miller for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by the plaintiff in error upon a
judgment for money rendered by a Kentucky Court. The
declaration alleges that the transaction in respect of which
the judgment was rendered took place at Louisville,
Kentucky, and that at that time the defendants were
doing business there as partners through Washington
Flexner, who was and continued to be their agent until
the time of this suit. It further alleges that the defendants
were nonresidents and that the service of summons of the
Kentucky suit was made upon Washington Flexner in
accordance with a Kentucky statute authorizing it to be
made in that way. The defendant William Farson was
the only one served with process in the present action and
he pleaded that the defendants in the former suit did not
reside in Kentucky, were not served with process and did
not appear; that Washington Flexner was not their agent
at the time of service upon him; that the Kentucky statute
relied upon was unconstitutional; that the Kentucky
Court had no jurisdiction, and that its judgment was void
under the Constitution of the United States. The plaintiff demurred to the pleas, and stood upon his demurrer
when it was overruled, whereupon judgment was entered
for the defendants. There was an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State on the ground that the Court below did
not give full faith and credit to the Kentucky judgment
and erred in holding the Kentucky statute as to service
unconstitutional. The Supreme Coiurt affirmed the judg-

FLEXNER v. FARSON.
289.

Opinion of the Court.

ment below. 268 Illinois, 435. The same errors are alleged
here.
It is argued that the pleas tacitly adriit that Washington Flexner was agent of the firm at the time of the transaction sued upon in Kentucky, and the Kentucky statute
is construed as purporting to make him agent to receive
service in suits arising out of the business done in that
State. On this construction it is said that the defendants
by doing business in the State consented to be bound by
the service prescribed. The analogy of suits against insurance companies based upon such service is invoked.
Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association v. Phelps, 190 U. S.

147. But the consent that is said to be implied in such
cases is a mere fiction, founded upon the accepted doctrine that the States could exclude foreign corporations
altogether, and therefore could establish this obligation as
a condition to letting them in. Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French,
18 How. 404. Pennsylvania Fire Ins. Co. v. Gold Issue
Mining & Milling Co., 243 U. S. 93, 96. The State had
no power to exclude the defendants and on that ground
without going farther the Supreme Court of Illinois
rightly held that the analogy failed, and that the Kentucky
judgment was void. If the Kentucky statute purports
to have the effect attributed to it, it cannot have that
effect in the present case. New York Life Ins. Co. v.
Dunlevy, 241 U. S. 518, 522, 523.
Judgment affirmed.

