VAN DYKE i. ARIZONA EASTERN R. R.
Counsel for Parties.

VAN DYKE ET AL. v. ARIZONA EASTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA.

No. 59.

Argued November 19, 1918.-iDecided December 9, 1918.

A railroad company, having surveyed a line over public land and
filed map and application for right of way under the Act of March 3,
1875, (which affects public land only,) and the land having in the
interim become part of a National Forest, made application, upon
the same map, to the Commissioner of the General Land Office for
permission to construct in the Forest; received such permission
from the Forest Service, to which the matter was referred; amended
its location somewhat, so as to lay the right of way, staked 200 feet
wide, across a mining claim in the Forest; obtained conveyance
of 100 feet in width from the mining claimants, and constructed
and operated its road. Thereafter, the original application was
approved by the Secretary of the Interior, and thereafter the tract
crossed was thrown open to entry.
Held, (construing the Act of 1875, supra, and the Act of March 3,
1899, relating to rights of way in forest reservations,) (1) That the
right of the railroad, to the full 200 feet, was superior to the right
of one who held under the mining claim until the land was thrown
open and who then settled, and ultimately obtained patent, under
the Homestead Law, although his homestead right was initiated
before the company amended its map to show the change of location and before the Secretary approved the application as thus
amended. P. 53.
(2) That the question whether failure to describe the route in its
charter left the company without power to construct upon it, and
unqualified to receive the grant, was not subject to be raised by the
homesteader. P. 54.
18 Arizona, 220, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William C. Prentiss,with whom Mr. Richard E. Sloan
and Mr. F. C. Jacobs were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.

Mr. Charles L. Rawlins for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1%8.
Opinion of the Court.

248 UL S.

MR. JusTIcE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
Error to review a judgment of affirmance of a judgment
rendered in the Superior Court of Gila County, Arizona,
quieting the title of the Railroad Company to 2.23 acres
of land in the N. W. Y of the S. E. 4, Sec. 30, T. 1 N.,
R. 15 E., Gila County, Arizona.
The trial court made findings of fact which were concurred in by the Supreme Court. And we see no reason
for not accepting them, notwithstanding plaintiffs in
error urge a review of them. They are as follows:
The railroad, as the successor of the Gila Valley Globe
& Northern Railway Company, acquired its rights, ineluding rights of way and all other assets. In March,
1906, the latier company platted a line of railroad from
Globe to Miami, Arizona, about nine miles in length,
passing over and across certain public land, and, November 5, 1908, filed in the local land office its map or profile
of definite location as provided by the Act of Congress of
March 3, 1875. Prior to that time the land covered by
the map as well as the land in dispute was thrown into
the Crook National Forest Reserve. April 19, 1909,
Written application to the United States Department of
Agriculture,, Forest Service, with map of right of way
attached, was made by'the railroad to enter and extend
its line across a portion of the Forest Reserve. The railroad was given permission, on July 6, 1909; to enter the
reservation and to locate and construct its road thcrein.
The map and profile of its road was approved September 21, 1909, by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance
with the ait of Congress.
In April, 1909, the Globe Company commence'd the
,construction of its road and completed it in September of
that year, and it and the appellee company have operated
efore construction was
trains ever since October, 1909.
commenced, to-wit, in November and December, 1908.,

VAN DYKE v. ARIZONA EASTERN R. R.
49.

Opinion of the Court.

the Globe Company amended its line of survey and
changed the course of its road upon and across the land
in dispute and along its entire length to the extent of
100 feet in width on each side of the center line of its
railroad and constructed its road on the amended location
conforming on the ground to the staked and marked line.
At the time of the amended location the land was
held by the Miami Land & Improvement Company, a
corporation, as mineral land, and the Globe Company
accepted a deed from it to a right of way across the land.
By executive order the land in dispute was restored to
the public domain December 22, 1909, on which date
appellant, Cleve Van Dyke, filed upon the same under
the homestead law. He had theretofore accepted it
under an option to purchase as a mineral location from
the Miami Improvement Company. On that date he
went off the land, but immediately r-turned and established his residence with a view to homesteading. 'In
due course he made final proof and on February 12, 1912,
a patent without any reservation was issued to him for
his homestead.
December 30,1909, the Globe Company filed its amended
map and profile of its right of way in the local land office
which was regularly and duly approved March 4, 1911.
Van Dyke attempted to show that he had established
residence upon the land prior to December 22, 1909, the
date upon which he filed his homestead entry. But it is
clear that he did not go upon the land prior to its inclusion
in the Forest Reserve. He was upon the land under
the option to purchase mentioned, and he attempted to
show that he was there under a verbal permit from the
Forest Supervisor with the intention of entering the land
as a homestead and that he made application to the
Forestry Department for an examination and listing
thereof under the Act of June 11, 1906 [c. 3074, 34 Stat.
233]; application, however, was rejected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

That he did not rely upon the settlement prior to
December 22, 1909, is clearly shown by his testimony.
He said: "It is a fact that about midnight on the 22nd
of December, 1909, I took up my residence in the house
testified to. That is, I went off the ground and back on
again at midnight." December 22nd was the first time
the land could have been settled upon without permission
from the National Government, and this permission he
did not obtain.
Upon these facts the Supreme Court said certain contentions arose: (1) It is that of the railroad that its rights
were fixed and established in August and September, 1909,
when it completed the construction of its railroad. (2)
Opposing, plaintiffs in error assert that, because the rail-.
road changed its route as located by its original map and
profile approved by the Secretary of the Interior, it acquired qo rights until it filed with the local land office on
December 30, 1909, its amended map of location, which
was too late, Van Dyke having taken the land as a homestead Deceipber 22, 1909. And to the contention of the
company that if the land was public it was not bound to
follow the line as shown on its map and profile, plaintiffs
in error reply that the land had ceased to be public land
by being thrown into the National Forest Reserve and
that the railroad was hence restricted to the specific right
of way shown on its approved map and profile; or, if
changed to another and different route, the consent of the
Interior Department was necessary and that such permission had not been given and hence the railroad acquired no rights, at least against plaintiffs in error. It is
conceded, however, that the railroad company was efititled to a right of way to the extent of 50 feet on each
side of the center of its line of track acquired by deed from
the Miami Land & Improvement Company, in the execution of which deed Van Dyke "acquiesced." Therefore,
as said by the Supreme Court, "Fifty feet on each side of

VAN DYKE v. ARIZONA EITERN .I. R.
49.

Opinion of the Court.

the center line of the track, or 100 feet of the right of way,
are not involved in this suit; the area in question being the
excess of 100 feet up to 200 feet, amounting to 2.23 acres."
We have had occasion to consider the Act of 1875, 18
Stat. 482, and what constituted a definite location of the
right of way under it, and have decided that such event
occurs by the actual construction of the road. Jamestown
& Northern R. R. Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S.125; Minneapolis
&c. Ry. Co. v. Doughty, 208 U. S. 251; Stalker v. Oregon
Short Line R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 142.
It was found by the courts below that the construction
of the railroad was commenced in April, 1909, and completed September, 1909, and that trains have been operated on it ever since. This satisfies the condition expressed
in the cited cases of the appropriation of a right of way.
But it is objected that the land was not then subject to
appropriation, being within a Forest Reserve. In reply
the Act of Congress of March 3, 1899, c. 427, 30 Stat.
1233, is adduced. It reads as follows: "That in the form
provided by existing law the Secretary of the Interior
may file and approve surveys and plats of any right of
way for a wagon road, 'railroad, or other highway over
and across any forest reservation or reservoir site when
in his judgment the public interests will not be iniuriously
affected thereby."
Of this act we said, in Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co. v. United States, 244 U. S.351, 357, 358, that it
commits to the Secretary of the Interior the question of
determining whether the public will be injuriously affected
by the grant of a right of way to a railroad through a
forest reserve and authorizes him to file and approve
surveys and plats of the right of way. The measure of his
discretion is large and only through his approval can a
right of way be acquired.
The condition was satisfied in this case. The Globe
Company-to the rights of which defendant in error

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

succeeded-in 1906, in preparation for the construction

of its road, platted its road and filed in the local land office
its map and profile of definite location under the Act of
1875, in November, 1908. Several months prior to the
latter date the land of the platted line and the land in dispute were thrown into the Crook National Forest Reserve. In the following year the railroad company made
application to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office for permission to enter the reserve and to locate
and construct its road thereon. And the application
was communicated to the Department of Agriculture
and approved by the Acting District Forester; the permission~was granted and the map and profile of the road
was approved September 21, 1909, by the Secretary of
the Interior, pursuant to the Act of Congress of March 3,
1875.,/ The road was constructed, and, as we have said,
completed in September, 1909, and put in operation in
October. And these successive steps were before the date
on which Van Dyke attempted to initiate a homestead
right. The discretion of the Secretary of the Interior
was therefore exercised, and we agree with the Supreme
Court that we cannot infer a rule of the Department
which precluded the granting of permission upon the
original map and profile.
Plaintiffs in error contend that the railroad company
had no power to construct a road from Globe to Miami,
Arizona, because its charter failed to designate such a
line as within the project for which it was incorporated.
This was made an issue by the pleadings and the court
found against it. Besides, it is not within the province
of plaintiffs in error to make the objection; it was a matter
for the Secretary of the Interior to determine. And, again,
plaintiffs in error have not such relation to the railroad
company as to complain of the exercise of power outside
of its charter.
Judgment affirmed

