OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

rendered after the going into effect of the Act of 1916, and
was only reviewable by certiorari, as provided in that
act. The writ of error, therefore, must be and it is
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

MIOSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 14. Submitted November 13, 1918.-Decided January 7,1919.
The provision of the Constitution requiring a vote of two-thirds of

each house to pass a bill over a veto (Art. I, § 7, cl. 21.means twothirds of a quorum of each house (i. e., of a majority of its members,
Art. I, § 5), not two-thirds of all the members of the body. P. 280.
This conclusion results from the context, proceedings in the Convention, and the early and consistent practice of Congress, especially
under the similar provision made for submitting constitutional
amendments. It is further confirmed by the practice of the States
before and since the adoption of the Constitution. Id.
Webb-Kenyon Liquor Act sustained.
96 Kansas, 609, affirmed.

TpE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. P. Waggener and Mr. J. M. Challiss for plaintiff in error:
In view of the nature of the veto power and the extraqrdinary importance which must be attached to the
function of the President in exercising it, it may well be
assumed that the framers of the Constitution meaht that a
veto should challenge the attention of the members of the
Congress and bring about a full and careful reconsideration of the matter affected; and, on the face of it, it would.

MISSOURI PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
276.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

seem that a considerably larger proportion of the members should be required to reenact a measure when so
condemned than the number needed for its original enactment in the ordinary way. Hence we find the Constitution distinctly stating that to pass the bill upon such
reconsideration there shall be an affirmative vote of twothirds of "that house," i. e., two-thirds of the members
who compose the house in which the action is being taken.
Had any less majority been intended, the Constitution
would have said so. A Senator or Representative, upon
election, becomes a member of the Senate or House and is
accredited as such. He is not accredited to the majority,
or to a constitutional quorum; in referring to "that house,"
the Constitution must refer not to a majority of the members, or to a quorum authorized to transact ordinary business, but to the membership in its entirety.
This part of the Constitution was evidently modeled
upon the New York Constitution of 1777 (see United
States v. Weil, 29 Ct. Clms. 538), in every respect save
that there it was provided expressly that two-thirds of the
members present could override a veto. The failure to
follow the New York precedent in this respect is significant
of an intention to require two-thirds of the entire membership, as the words used in the Constitution naturally imply.
Compare §3 of Art. I, which requires only "two-thirds of
the members present" in impeachment cases, and § 2 of
Art. II, empowering the President to make treaties "provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur." On the
other hand, Art.W provides against hasty amendment of
the Constitution by requiring a vote of two-thirds of both
houses. A reduced vote is allowed for treaties, notwithstanding th-'ir solemn character, because in their enactment the President and the Senators are working together.
But the overriding of a veto, and the proposal of amendments to the Constitution, are of such extraordinary
importance as to require the larger vote. It would have

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

made the intention no stronger or clearer if two-thirds of
all the members of the house had been specified in so
many words.
The remarks made by Gouverneur Morris in the Convention, as reported by Madison (Documentary History
of the Constitution of the United States, vol. 3, pp. 721723), support our contention.
Should it be held that an act may be passed over the
Presidential veto by two-thirds of a quorum, it is possible
for a bill to become a law notwithstanding expressed executive disapproval by a markedly less vote than it received
upon its original passage.
Mr. Jas' P. Coleman, Mr. S. M. Brewster, Attorney
General of the State of Kansas, and Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler
for defendant in error.
Mr. Everett P. Wheeler and Mr. Eliot Tuckerman, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curice, in support of the
construction rejected in this case. See post, p. 599.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
To avoid penalties sought to be imposed upon it for
illegally carrying intoxicating liquors irom another State
into Kansas, the defendant railroad, plaintiff in error,
asserted as follows: (1) That the state law was void as an
attempt by the State to regulate commerce and thus usurp
the authority alone possessed by Congress; (2) that if
such result was sought to be avoided because af power
seemingly conferred upon the State by the Act of Congress
known as the Webb-Kenyon Law (Act of March 1, 1913,
c. 90,4 37 Stat. 699), such act was void for repugnancy to
the Constitution of the United States because in excess of'
the power of Congress to regulate commerce and as a
usurpation of rights reserved by the Constitution to the

MISSOURI PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
276.

Opinion of the Court.

States; (3) because, even if the Webb-Kenyon Law was
held not to be repugnant to the Constitution for the
reasons stated, nevertheless, that assumed law afforded
no basis for the exertion of the state power in question,
because it had never been enacted by Congress conformably to the Constitution, and therefQre, in legal intendment, must be treated as non-existing.
It is conceded that the ruling of this court, sustaining the
Webb-Kenyon Law as a valid exercise by Congress of its
power to regulate commerce (Clark Distilling Co. v.
Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, 325), disposes
of the first two contentions and leaves only the third for
consideration. In fact, in argument it is admitted that
such question alone is relied upon. The proposition is
this: That as the provision of the Constitution exacting
a two-thirds vote of each house to pass a bill over a veto
means a two-thirds vote, not of a quorum of each house,
but of all the members of the body, the Webb-Kenyon
Act was never enacted into law, because after its veto by
the President it received in the Senate only a two-thirds
vote of the Senators present (a quorum), which was less
than two-thirds of all the members elected to and entitled
to sit in that body.
Granting the premise of fact as to what the face of the
journal discloses, and assuming for the sake of the argument (Flintv. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 143; Rainey
v. United States, 232 U. S. 310, 317,) that the resulting
question would be justiciable, we might adversely dispose of it by merely referring to the practice to the contrary which has prevailed from the beginning. In view,
however, of the importance of the subject, and with the
purpose nQt to leave unnoticed the grave misconceptions
involved in the arguments by which the proposition relied
upon is sought to be supported, we come briefly to dispose of the subject.
'The proposition concerns clause 2 of § 7 of Article I of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

the Constitution, providing that in case a bill passed by
Congress is disapproved by the President-"
he shall return it, with his objections to that house in
which it shall have originated, who shall enter the objections at large on their journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such reconsideration two thirds of that
house shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, together
with the objections, to the other house, by which it shall
likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds
of that house, it shall become a law.
The extent of the vote exacted being certain, the question depends upon the significance of the words "that
house; " that is, whether those words relate to the two
houses by which the bill was passed and upon which full
legislative power is conferred by the Constitution in case
of the presence of a quorum,'Xa majority of the members
of each house; §5, Art. I); Qr whether they refer to a body
which must be assumed to embrace, not a majority, but
all its members, for the purpose of estimating the twothirds vote required. As the context leaves no doubt that
the provision was dealing with the two houses as organized
and entitled to exert legislative power, it follows that to
state the contention is to adversely dispose of it.
But, in addition, the erroneous assumption upon which
the contention proceeds is plainly demonstrated by a consideration of the course of proceedings (in the convention
which framed the Constitution,)since, as pointed out by
Curtis (History of the Constitution, vol. 2 p. 267, note),
'it appears from those proceedings that the veto provision
as originally offered was changed into the form in which
it now stands after the adoption of the Article fixing the
quorum of the two houses for the purpose of exerting
legislative power and with the object of giving the p~wer
to override a veto to the bodies as thus organized, A
further confirmation of this view is afforded by the fact
thaut there is no indication in the constitutions and laws

MISSOURI PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
76.

Opinioh of the Court.

of the several States existing before the (onstitution of
the United States was framed that it was deemed that the
legislative body which had power to pass a bill over a veto
was any other than the legislative body organized conformably to law for the purpose of enacting legislation,
and hence that the majority fixed as necessary to override
a veto was the required majority of the body in whom the
power to legislate was lodged.) Indeed, the absolute
identity between the body having authority to pass legislation and the body having the power in case of a veto
to override it, was clearly shown by the constitution of
New York, [1777 since that constitution, in providing
for the exercise of the right to veto by the council, directed
that the objections to the bill be transmitted for reconsideration to the Senate or House in which it originated,
"but if after such re-consideration, two thirds of the said
senate or house of assembly, shall, notwithstanding the said
objections, agree to pass the same, it shall .
. be
sent to the other branch of the legislature, where it shall
also be re-considered, and if approved by two thirds of
the members present, shall be a law," thus identifying the
bodies embraced by the words "senate" and "house" and
definitely fixing the two-thirds majority required in each
as two-thirds of the members present.
The identity between the provision of Article V of the
Constitution, giving the power by a two-thirds vote to
submit amendments, and the requirements we are considering as to the two-thirds vote necessary to override
a veto, makes the practice as to the one applicable to the
other.
At the first session of the first Congress in 1789, a consideration of the provision authorizing the submission of
amendments necessarily arose in the submission by Congress of the first ten amendments to the Constitution
embodying a bill of rights. They were all adopted and
submitted by each house organized as a legislative body

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

pursuant to the Constitution, by less than the vote which
would have been necessary had the constitutional provision been given the significance now attributed to it.
Indeed, the resolutions by which the action of the two
houses was recorded demonstrate that they were formulated with the purpose of refuting the contention now
made. The Senate record was. as follows:
"Resolved: That the Senate do concur in the resolve
of the House of Representatives, on 'Articles to be proposed to the legislatures of the states, as amendments
to the constitution of the United States,' with amendments; two-thirds of the Senators present concurring
therein." 1st Cong., 1st sess., September 9, 1789, Senate
Journal, 77.
And the course of action in the House and the record
made in that body is shown by a message from the House
to the Senate which was spread on the Senate Journal as
follows:
"A message from the House of Representatives. Mr.
Beckley, their clerk, brought up a resolve of the House of
this date, to agree to the . . . amendments, proposed by the Senate, to 'Articles of amendment to be
proposed to the legislatures of the several states, as amendments to the constitution of the United States,' . . . ;
two-thirds of the members present concurring on each
vote; . . . " 1st Cong., 1st sess., September 21, 1789,
Senate Journal, 83.
When it is considered that the chairman of the committee in charge of the amendments for the House was Mr.
Madison, and that both branches of Congress contained
many members who had participated in the deliberations
of the convention or in the proceedings which led to the
ratification of the Constitution, and that the whole subject was necessarily vividly present in the minds of those
who dealt with it, the convincing effect of the action
cannot be overstated.

MISSOURI PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
276.

Opinion of the Court.

But this is not all, for the Journal of the Senate contains
further evidence that the character of the two-thirds vote
exacted by the Constitution (that is, two-thirds of a
quorum) could not have been overlooked, since tlat
Journal shows that at the very time the amendmenits
just referred to were under consideration there were also
pending other proposed amendments, dealing with the
treaty and law-making power. Those concerning the
treaty-making power provided that a two-thirds vote of
all the members (instead of that proportion of a quorum)
should be necessary to ratify a treaty dealing with enumerated subjects, and exacted even a larger proportionate
vote of all the members in order to ratify a treaty dealing with other mentioned subjects; and those dealing with
the law-making power reb,uired that a two-thirds (instead of a majority) vote of a quorum should be necessary to pass a law concerning specified subjects.
The construction which was thus given to the Constitution in dealing with a matter of such vast importance, and
which was necessarily sanctioned by the States and allthe
people, has governed as to every amendment to the Constitution submitted from that day to this. This is not
disputed and we need not stop to refer to the precedents
demonstrating its accuracy. The settled rule, however,
was so clearly and aptly stated by the Speaker, Mr. Reed,
in the House, on the passage in 1898 of the amendment
to the Constitution providing for the election of Senators
by vote of the people, that we quote it. The ruling was
made under these circumstances. When the vote was announced, yeas, 184, and nays, 11, in reply to an inqitiry
from the floor as to whether such vote was a compliance
with the two-thirds rule fixed by the Constitution, as it
did'not constitute a two-thirds vote of all the members
elected, the Speaker said:
"The question is one that has been so often decided. that
it seems hardly necessary to dwell upon it. The provision

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

of the Constitution says 'two-thirds of both Houses.'
What constitutes a House? A quorum of the membership,
a majority, one-half and one more. That is all that is
necessary to constitute a House to do all the business that
comes before the House. Among the.business that comes
before the House is the reconsideration of a bill which has
been vetoed by the President; another is a proposed
amendment to the Constitution; and the practice is uniform in both cases that if a quorum of the House is present
the House is constituted and two-thirds of those voting
are sufficient in order to accomplish the object.

.

.

Hinds' Precedentsof the House of Representatives, vol.
5, pp. 1009-1010.
This occurrence demonstrates that there is no ground
for saying that the adherence to the practice settled in
both houses in 1789 resulted from a mere blind application of an existing rule; a conclusion which is also clearly
manifested, as to the Senate, by proceedings in that body
in 1861 where, on the passage of a pending amendment to
the Constitution, as the result of an inquiry made by Mr.
Trumbull relative to the vote required to pass it, it was
determined by the Senate by a vote of 33 to 1 that twothirds of a quorum only was essential. 36th Cong., 2nd
sess., March 2, 1861, Senate Journal, 383.
In consequence of the identity in principle between the
rule applicable to amendments to the Constitution and
that controlling in passing a bill over a veto, the rule of
two-thirds of a quorum has been universally applied as to
the two-thirds vote essential to pass a bill over a veto.
In passing from the subject, however, we again direct
attention to the fact that in both cases the continued application of the rule was the result of no mere formal followhig of what had gone before but came from conviction
expressed, after deliberation, as to its correctness by many
illustrious men.
While there is no decision of this court covering the sub-

WEIGLE v. CURTICE BROTHERS CO.
276.

Syllabus.

ject, in the state courts of last resort the question has
arisen and been passed upon, resulting in every case in
the recognition of the principle, that in the absence of an
express command to the contrary the two-thirds vote of
the house required to pass a bill over a veto is the twothirds of a quorum of the body as empowered to perform
other legislative duties. Farmers Union Warehouse Co.
v. McIntoch, 1 Ala. App. 407; State v. McBride, 4 Missouri, 303; Southworth v. Palmyra & Jackson R. R. Co.,
2 Michigan, 287; Smith v. Jennings, 67 S. Car. 324;
Green v. Weller, 32 Mississippi, 650. We say that the
decisions have been without difference, for the insistence
that the ruling in Minnesota ex rel. Eastland v. Gould, 31
Minnesota, 189, is to the contrary, is a wholly mistaken
one, since the decision in that case was that as the state
constitution required a vote of the majority of all the
members elected to the house to pass a law, the two-thirds
vote necessary to override a veto was a two-thirds vote
of the same body.
Any further consideration of the subject is unnecessary, and our order must be, and is
Judgment affirmed.

WEIGLE v. CURTICE BROTHERS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE tNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 83. Argued December 17, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
As respects domestic retail sales of secondary packages, or the contents
thereof, out of the original packages in which they were imported in
interstate commerce, state laws forbidding sale of food articles
containing benzoate of soda are not inconsistent with the commerce

