OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

charged must :be notified by postal card and by newspaper
publication (Idaho Revised Codes, vol, I, title 14, c. 4,
ยง 2400). At such meeting the land owner may object
to any proposed assessment on his land and if the objection is overruled by the Board,. and he'does not consent
to the assessment as finally determined, such objection
shall; without further proceeding, be regarded as appealed
to the .District Court and shall there again be heard in
proceedings to confirm the assessment. It is expressly
provided-that upon such hearing the court shall disregard
every error, irregularity or omission, which does hot affect
the substantial rights of any party and shall correct any
error which may be found in such assessment or any injustice which may result from it.
For this reason the court held that the claims stated in
the "cross complaint" were prematurely asserted, were
"wholly immaterial," to the inquiry presented by the
petition of the District, and "shpuld have been stricken
from the answer.' We cannot doubt that this conclusion
of the State Supreme Court, based as it is wholly on state
statutes and procedure, is broad enough to sustain the
judgment rendered, irrespective of the disposition of any
federal question involved, and therefore the writ of error
will be
Dismissed.

PURE OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF MINNESOTA.
ERROR T)

No. 74.

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

Argued November 21, 22,1918.-=-Decided December 9, 1918.

For the purpose of promoting the public safety and of protecting the
public from fraud and imposition, a State, in the absence of con-

flicting regulation by Congress, may provide for inspection of illu-

PURE OIL CO. v. MINNESOTA.
158.

Opinion of the Court.

minating oils and gasoline, while yet in interstate transit, and impose
a charge upon the owner reasonably sufficient to cover the cost of
inspection. P. 161.
Such inspection charges, fixed by a state legislature, are accepted as
reasonable unless clearly shown to be obviously and largely beyond
what is needed to pay for the inspection service rendered. P. 163.
Where the receipts from inspection fees through a number of years
considerably exceeded the cost of inspection, but this was explained
by increasing consumption of the product inspected, and the legislature during the period reduced the fee, held, that there was no
ground to question the good faith of the legislature in enacting the
law under which the fees were charged. P. 164.
Upon the question whether an inspection of gasoline served to promote
public safety and protect against fraud and imposition, concurrent
findings of state trial and supreme courts held conclusive. Id.
Whether oil and gasoline, imported into a State in tank cars, continued to be subjects of interstate commerce while awaiting state inspection at the owner's place of business, before they were unloaded
and held for general'sale and distribution-not decided. Id.
134 Minnesota, 101, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Nathan H. Chase, with whom Mr. Clifford Thorne

was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Egbert S. Oakley, Assistant Attorndy General of the
State of Minnesota, with whom Mr. Clifford L. Hilton,
Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, was on the'
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the State of Minnesota sued the plaintiff in
error, an extensive dealer in oils, to recover fees, which

were charged for the inspection of oils and gasoline, between February 1, 1913, and April 25, 1915. The judgment of the State Supreme Court affirming that of the
trial court in favor of the State is before us for review on

writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

The inspection involved was provided for by chapter 502
-of the General Laws 'of the State of Minnesota for the
year 1909, the title of which is: "An Act relating to the
inspection of petroleum products, lie appointment of
chief inspector of oils and deputy inspectors, manner of
inspection, establishing fees for inspection and salaries of
inspectors, prohibiting the sale of adulterated oils, and
providing penalties for the violation thereof," and the
title of the chapter in which the original act is embodied
in the General Statutes of the State is: "Inspector of
Oils." Gen. Stats. of Minnesota, 1913, c. 20.
Section 3622 provides that no person shall sell or offer
for sale in the State illuminating oil which has not been
inspected as provided for by the act, or which will ignite
at a temperature below 120' Fahrenheit. A method is
prescribed for making this "fire test," and for determining
the gravity of such oils and the results must be stenciled
on each container of oil.
Section 3625 deals with gasoline, and requires that it
shall be subject to the same inspection and control as is
prescribed for illuminating oils "except that the inspectors
are not required to test it other than to ascertain its
gravity."
All containers of gasoline must be labeled conspicuously
with the word "Gasoline," the gravity must be stenciled
thereon and it is made unlawful to sell or offer it for sale
until inspected and approved. PrOvision is also made
(ยง 3626) for the inspection of gasoline "receptacles" to
keep them "free from water and all other foreign substances," and the sale of "adulterated" gasoline is prohibited (ยง 3627). Obviously this is, in form, a not unusual
type of inspection law.
The findings of fact by the trial court include the following:
During the period under discussion the State inspected
9,914 barrels of oil and 81,998 barrels of gasoline owned

PUPtE OIL CO. v. MINNESOTA.
158.

Opinion of the Court.

by the plaintiff in error, all of which were brought intQ
Minnesota from other States by common carriers in tank'
cars, which were held at the place of business of the plaintiff in error until inspected, and all were unloaded from
the cars in which they arrived and were held for general
sale and distribution. And this in terms:
"That the testing of gasoline in the manner provided by
the statute . . . indicates to the public the degree of
safety of such gasoline, and has a fair relation to the
quality and value thereof. That such inspection protects
the community, as applied to sales of gasoline in Minnesota, from frauds and impositions, and advises, informs
and warns the public of the volatile character of said
gasoline and the relative degree of care to be exercised in
handling, storing and using the same."
On the case thus stated it is claimed-that the Supreme
Court of Minnesota erred in refusing to hold:
First, That the inspection fees imposed were so excessive
in amount as to render the act a revenue rather than an
inspection measure and that as such it offends against
ยง 8, Article I of the Federal Constitution, as an attempt by
the State to regulate interstate commerce; and
Second, That to the extent that the
act applies to
gasoline it is not a valid exercise of the police powers of
the State, because it does not serve to protect or safeguard
the health, morals or convenience of the public and
therefore offends against the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Federal Constitution by depriving the plaintiff in
error of its property without due process of law to the
extent of the fees which it in terms exacts.
The principles of law applicable to the decision of the
case thus before us are. few and they are perfectly settled
by the decisions of this court.
In the exercise of its police power a State may enact
inspection laws, which are valid if they tend in a direct
and substantial manner to promote the public safety and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

welfare or to protect the public from frauds and imposition
when dealing in articles of general use, as to which Congress has not made any conflicting regulation, and a fee
reasonably sufficient to pay the cost of such inspection
may constitutionally be charged, even though the property may be moving in interstate commerce when inspected. Patapsco Guano Co. v. North Carolina Board of
Agriculture, 171 U. S. 345, 357, 358; 361; McLean & Co. v.
Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38; Asbell v.
Kansas, 209 U. S. 251; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S.
501, 404; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 525.
Specifically, state laws providing- for the inspection of
oils and gasoline have several times been recognized as
valid by this court. Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S.501;
Red "C" Oil Mfg. Co. v. Board of Agriculture of North
Carolina, 222 U. S. 380, and Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.
Deselms, 212 U. S.159.
But if such inspection charge should be obviously and
largely in excess of the cost of inspection, the act will be
declared void because constituting, in its operation, an
obstruction to and burden upon that commerce among the
States the exclusive regulation of which is committed to
Congress by* the Constitution. Postal Telegraph-Cable
Co. v. Taylor, 192 U. S.64; Foote & Co. v. Maryland, 232
U. S.494, 504, 508.
Plainly the application of the principles thus stated
leaves open for consideration only the question as to
whether the inspection charge is so excessive as to render
the act a revenue measure, as the plaintiff in error claihs
that it is, and not an inspection I(w enacted in good faith
to promote the' public safety and prevent fraud and imposition upon the users of oil and gasoline. In the consideration of this question the discretion of the legislature
in determining the amount of the inspection fee will not
lightly be disturbed. Its determination is prima facie
reasonable and the courts will not "enter into any nice

PURE OIL CO. v. MINNESOTA.
158.

Opinion of the Court.

calculation as to the difference between cost and collection; nor will they declare the feeg to be excessive unless it
is made clearly to appear that they are obviously and
largely beyond what is needed to pay for the inspection
services rendered." Foote & Co. v. Maryland, 232 U. S.
494, 504, and Western Union Telegraph Co. v. New Hope,
187 U. S. 419.
The findings of fact give the following statement of
receipts and expenses under the law, assailed, from and'
including the year 1909, in which itwas passed, to April 30,
1915, which includes the last day covered by the claim in
suit, viz:
PERCENTAGE OF
YEAR

RECEIPTS

$34,934
1909
50,667
1910
56,852
1911
53,354
1912
72,656
1913
81,565
1914
July 31, 1914, to
62,689
April 30, 1915,

EXPENSES

RECEIPTs USED
FOR DEPARTMENT
EXPENSES

$30,288
40,044
40,494
39,999
47,117
52,467

87%
79%
71%
63%
65%
64%

46,863

75%

This statement of expenses, however, does not include
any charge for offices for the Oil Department, which were
in the state capitol, for the services of the state auditor and
treasurer in keeping accounts and making collections, f'or
legal counsel, and for services of chemists, or for the Public
Examiner's Department, these not being susceptible of
exact determination. The reduced percentage of expenses
to receipts in several of the years was obviously due to the
rapid expansion in the use of gasoline without a corresponding increase in the expenses'of administration. This
percentage, however, was rising in 1915 and doubtless has
increased greatly since, under war conditions. We take
judicial. notide also of the fact that-in 1915 the inspection

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

fee on oil and gasoline in tank cars was reduced by the
legislature from 10 to 7 cents and in 1917 from 7 to 5 cents.
It was obviously impossible for the state legislature to
determine accurately in advance either what the receipts
from or the cost of inspection would be, and having regard
to the period of rapid increase in the use of gasoline,
through which the country was passing in the years under
consideration, and to the action of the legislature in reducing the fee, we cannot consent to impute to that body a
purpose other than to conform to the requirements of the
Constitution when enacting this legislation.
The conclusion thus arrived at sustains the validity of
the state liw as an inspection measure and renders it
unnecessary to consider the much argued question as to
whether or not the oil and gasoline in question were in
interstate transit when inspected. As an inspection law,
under the decisions cited, the act is Validly applicable,
alike whether the property was in intra or in interstate
commerce When inspected..
Neither is it necessary to consider whether the evidence
sustains 'the contention that the inspection of gasoline
provided for by the act was of a character such that it did
not serve to promote the public safety or to protect the
community against fraud and imposition. The finding of
fact by the trial court, approved by the Supreme Court of
the State, is accepted as conclusive by this court. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593.
It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota must be
Affirmed.

