OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

78

Syllabus.

2484U. S.

An examination of the sections of the statutes, here in-.
volved, in the light of the decisions of the Supreme Court
of Alabama, does not in our opinion warrant the conclusion that title is vested in the Receiver as assignee or as
statutory successor of the insolvent corporation in such
wise as to authorize the action to recover in a foreign jurisdiction. Collectively, these sections provide for a receivership to administer the property and assets of the
insolvent corporation under the authority and direction
of the appointing court. The statutes do not undertake
to vest in the receiver an estate in the property to be administered for the benefit of creditors, as was the case in
Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243, in which the right to sue in the courts
of a foreign jurisdiction was sustained.
The Circuit Court of Appeals left open the question ot
the right to apply for an ancillary receivership in the District Court, and the effect of such appointment, if made,
upon the pending suit. We pursue the like course, arid as
such an application could only originate in the District
Court we express no opinion concerning it. The decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

ALASKA PACIFIC FISHERIES v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 212.

Argued November 4, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

For safeguarding and advancing a dependent Indian people, resident
on islands belonging to the United States in the Territory of Alaska,
Congress has power to reserve for their use, until otherwise provided by law, not only the upland of the islands but also the ad-

ALASKA PACIFIC FISHERIES v. UNITED STATES. 79
78.

Argument for Appellant.

jacent submerged land and deep waters supplying fisheries essential
to the Indians' welfare. P. 87.
An act of Congress set aside, "until otherwise provided by law the
body of lands known as Annette Islands," in Alaska, for the use of
the Metlakahtla Indians (recently emigrated from British Columbia
and settled on the islands with the encouragement of executive
and administrative officers,) and such other Alaskan natives as
might join them, to be held and used by them in common, under
regulations of the Secretary of the Interior. The islands were a
well-defined group, uninhabited before the coming of the Indians,
who were peculiarly dependent on the adjacent fisheries. Held,
in view of the circumstances at time of the enactment and its subsequent construction, that the reservation included adjacent deep
waters; and that a fish net constructed therein by defendant 600
feet beyond high tide line, and whose 'operation might materially
reduce the supply of fish accessible to the Indians, was subject to
abatement at the suit of the United States. P. 89.
240 Fed. Rep. 274, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John A. Hellenthal in a brief for appellant:
The act is explicit, reserving only the "body of lands
known as Annette Islands." The water surrounding an
island forms no part of it. Grants of land on navigable
water go only to ordinary high tide.
Public navigable waters are not part of the public
domain. In a Territory, the United States holds them, not
as land-owner, but as sovereign, in trust for all the people,
who have conunon rights therein of fishery and navigation. And this right of fishery is a property right. McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391; Rossmiller v. State, 114
Wisconsin, 169. The Government as in the case of a State
may regulate the use for the benefit of all, but neither can
create a private fishing reserve for the benefit of a few to
the exclusion of all others. Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.
Illinois, 146 U. S. 387; Arnold v. Mundy, 6 N. J. L. 1;
ilinois CentralR. R. Co. v. Chicago, 176 U. S. 646; Martin
v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 345; Pewaukee v. Savoy, 103 Wis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

248 U. 8.

consin, 271; Rossmiller v. State, supra. These authorities
show that a State cannot substantially impair the public
rights of fishery and navigation, but is bound to preserve
the public waters so that the people may be able to exercise these rights forever. These rights are no different
and are no less binding on the Government when, the
waters being in a Territory, title is held in trust for a future
State. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1. The authority of
the sovereign to make grants below high-water mark depends in each case upon whether the value of the public
right will be enhanced or destroyed. Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240. This is recognized in Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. Illinois, supra, as applied to a State.
It applies also to the United States, in Alaska, where the
Constitution is in full force. Rasmussen v. United States,
197 U. S. 516. See United States v. Mackey, 214 Fed. Rep.
146; Shively v. Bowiby, supra; Illinois Steel Co. v. Bilot,
109 Wisconsin, 418.
Grants of limited exclusive privileges, as for those who
produce new supplies of fish or oysters, are upheld as benefiting the public right. Commonwealth v. Weatherhead,
110 Massachusetts, 175; Rowe v. Smith, 48 Connecticut,
444; Commonwealth v. Vincent, 108 Massachusetts, 441.
The effect of the proclamation is to create an exclusive
fishery for the benefit of the Metlakahtlans. This is
quite different from a withdrawal from entry of public
land. United States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459.
The Constitution nowhere confers upon the President
any special power respecting navigable waters or fisheries;
and the common law, in the light of which the Constitution must be considered, recognized no such right in the
King. The fisheries in the navigable waters belong to the
people at large. The Government has no interest therein
which it can reserve for the use of any individual or class.
The President cannot include such waters in an Indian
reservation. United States v. Ashton, 170 Fed. Rep. 509.

ALASKA PACIFIC I"ISIIERIES v. UNITED STATES. 81
78.

Arguient for Appellant.

The proclamation is contrary to § 254, Alaska Compiled
Laws, prohibiting aliens from fishing in Alaskan waters.
The Metlakahtlans are not natives of Alaska.
The fish-trap was not a purpresture. It was sanctioned
by §§ 261, 262, c. 3, Alaska Compiled Laws, and in the
exercise of appellant's right of fishing. Lincoln v. Davis,
53 Michigan, 375. It was vested property. McCready v.
Virginia, supra; Farnham on Waters, § 394; Lewis v.
Portland, 25 Oregon, 133; Pitkin v. Olmstead, 1 Root
(Conn.), 217; Lay v. King, 5 Day (Conn.), 72; Gallup v.
Tracy, 25 Connecticut, 10; Post v. Kreischer, 32 Hun
(N. Y.), 49; Glover v. Powell, 10 N. J.Eq. 211.
The trap did not obstruct navigation, and authority
under the Rivers and Harbors Act was not required.
Mr. C. H. Hanford argued the case for appellant:
The injunction strikes a legitirate business. The
proclamation creates a private monopoly out of what by
right is common to all. It is contrary to public policy.
The act is not ambiguous and to strain its construction
would not be permissible in the interest of the Indians
who are neither wards of the Nation nor in need of charity.
Government surveys of land stop at the water's edge.
Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324-328; Mann v. Tacoma
Land Co., 153 U. S. 273-286. Hence, a grant or reservation of a body of land described as an island is a tract
having a water boundary; all within the line of separation between the solid and liquid elements constitutes
the granted or reserved tract. Shively v. Bowlby, 152
U. S. 1. The only absolute right appurtenant to land
bounded by navigable water is the right of access. An
exclusive right was not necessary, in the case of these
Indians, to the beneficial pursuit of their calling as fishermen. An exclusive right of fishery offshore is different
from a right appertaining to land, so different in essence,
so extraordinary, and so unneeessary to the beneficial use

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

248 U. S.

of land, that it does not come within the category of
rights appurtenant to the title to real estate. Baron v.
Alexander, 206 Fed. Rep. 272; Parker v. People, 111
Illinois, 588. Cf. Kennedy v. Becker, 241 U. S. 556.
Russian-American Co. v. United States, 199 U. S. 579,
distinguished.
The act is special, to be strictly construed. Expressum
facit cessare taciturn.
The President is unauthorized to appropriate any part
of the public domain for alien Indians. 18 Opin. Atty.
Gen. 557.
Congress alone has power to make rules and regulations
respecting Alaska, and its governmental power is to be
exercised with a view to the erection of new States to
enter the Union on an equal footing with the original
States. Congress has declared the status of Alaska to be
territory eligible to become one or more States of the
Union which will have governmental and proprietary
rights with respect to its waters. Act of May 14, 1898, 30
Stat. 409; Alaska Compiled Laws, 1913, § 92.
The proclamation is the first and only public assertion
of exclusive rights of fishery in the public waters of Alaska.
It was not issued until after the appellant located and constructed its fish-trap, involving a large investment, with
due observance of the fishing laws. Since Magna Charta
control and regulation of fishing rights has been by the
common law of England a legislative function, Crown
grants of exclusive rights being expressly forbidden; and
in the jurisprudence of this country based upon the common law, the right of fishery in public waters belongs to
all the people, controlled and regulated within the States
by sttutes enacted by their respective legislatures.
Gould on Waters, 3d ed., §§ 1, 2, 30, 32, 34, 36, 39, 189;
McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391; Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 259, 260; United States v.'Shauver,
214-Fed. Rep. 157; United States v. McQullagh, 221 Fed.

ALASKA PACIFIC FISHERIES v. UNITED STATES. 83
78.

Argument for the United States.

Rep. 292. This means that in a Territory the subject
can only be regulated by acts of Congress.
The Government is not the real party in interest, but
appears as a volunteer for the benefit of others to whom
it is not legally or morally obligated. United States v.
San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273, 286.
The fish-trap is a lawful structure on a lawful
site.
The Rivers and Harbors Act affords no justification
for an injunction in this case.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown for the United
States:
The power of the Government to reserve parts of the
public domain for the exclusive use of Indian tribes is
undoubted. This reservation was not for the Metlakahtlans 41one, and they, besides, had acquired the same
status as other Indian peoples longer resident within the'
bounds of our country.
The locus in' question is part of the public domain
within this rule. The United States has a title in these
waters which it could even grant outright to individuals.
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1. Undoubtedly, the United
States has exercised sparingly its power to make such
grants-they are not made under general laws-and has
recognized that such lands, chiefly valuable for the public
purposes of commerce, navigation and fishery, should
with by the
be held as a whole, to be ultimately dealt
future State. See Mann v. Tacoma Land Co., 153 U. S.
273. If, however, it be said that this is a holding in trust,
it is a trust like that under which all the public lands of
the Nation are held for the people of the whole country.
United States v. Trinidad Coal Co., 137 U. S.160. "It is
not for the courts to say how that trust shall be administered." Light v. United States, 220 U. S.523, 537. So
far as the policy interposes any check upon the free dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
,Argument for the United States.

248 U. S.

position of these tide lands it is a check upon the conscience and guide to the intelligence of Congress and is
not a limitation upon its power. Where the grant is
reasonably in aid of a public purpose, the power of the
United States to make the grant is absolute.
The power to make the reservation is superiorfto any
right of fishery the appellant may claim, and most especially the right to maintain a permanent fish-trap, affixed
to the soil and necessarily excluding all others.
A general right of fishery at common law, if existing, is
inapplicable to these waters, which were derived by the
United States from the Emperor of all the Russias, with
all the rights, franchises and privileges belonging to
Russia when the cession was made. Treaty of 1867, 15
Stat. 539. Under the law of Russia, such property was
at the sovereign's disposal. Russian Civil Code, bk. II,
tit. I, c. II, arts. 24'A 251; ib. tit. II, c. I, arts. 263, 264;
Code Civil de l'Ernpire de Russie. Traduit sur les editions
officielles par un Jurisconsulte Russe (with a prefatory
essay by Victor Foucher, Advocat-General du Roi),
Paris, 1841. The United States succeeded to the rights
'of the Czar. Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410.
There is, however, no such general right of fishery as
. the appellailt asserts, effective against a reservation of
the witers, for a public purpose, by the United States.
The rights of a State in tide-lands depend in each case on
the local law. Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661; Hardin v.
Jordan, 140 U. S.371; Illinois CentralR. R. Co. V. Chicago,
176 U. S.(646,659. The state laws differ widely, and state
decisions must therefore be applied with caution. Shively
v. Bowlby, supra, p. 26. But it is established law in substantially every State of the Atlantic and Gulf seaboard
that the sovereign may grant rights of fishery despite the.
alleged general right of the publie [citing numerous state
grants]. It is true these legislative grants are in general
designed to encourage development of the fishing, espe-

ALASKA PACIFIC FISHERIES v. UNITED STATES. 85
78.

Argument for the United States.

cially the shell-fish, industry thus benefiting the public;
but they are exclusive, and they do not, as appellant contends, add value to the public right of fishing. Such
grants can serve no higher public purpose than does this
Indian reservation.
Arnold v. Mundy,' 6 N. J. L. 1, seems to have been
overruled, Shively v. Bowlby, supra; Stevens v. Patterson
&c. R. R. Co., 5 Vroom, 532; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
New York &c. R. R. Co., 23-N. J. Eq. 157; Hoboken v.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 124 U. S. 656, 688, 690, 691; and
if accepted as law is fatal to appellant's claim of a vested
right in an exclusive location. McCready v. Virginia, 94
U, S.391, upholds the state power, as does also Lincoln v.
Davis, 53 Michigan 375. See Donnelly v., United States,
228 U. S. 243; s. c. 228 U. S,708, 711. Illinois Central
R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 146 U. S.387, decided a question of
Illinois law on peculiar facts, and did not involve rights of
the United States. A grant to a railroad for its own
profit generally of the control of practically the entire
harbor 'of Chicago was held revocable. .-Here there is but
a reservation, expressly revocable, for a public purpose.
The Illinois Case contains dicta, doubtless among those
referred to disapprovingly in Shively v. Bowlby,
The act of. Congress contemplated not only the reservation of the uplands of "that body of lands known as
Annette Islands," but also of the adjacent waters and,
fairly construed, was such a reservation.
In any event the President's proclamation of April 28,
1916,.was an effective exercise of the power of the United
States to reserve such adjacent waters.
The proclamation was within the, authorization of
§ 465, Rev. Stats.
The fish-trap, erected without license, was a purpresture and the appellant a mere trespasser. Webber v.
Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57; Russian-American Co.
v. United States, 199 U. S. 570.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

The trap was erected in violation of the Rivers and
Harbors Act' of 1899.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit, by the United States to enjoin the Alaska
Pacific Fisheries, a California corporation, from maintaining, and to compel it to remove, an extensive fish-trap
erected by it in navigable waters at the Annette Ilands in
Alaska. The objections urged against thetrap are, first,
that it is within a reservation lawfully established for the
use of the Metlakahtla and other Indians, and, second,
that it is an unauthorized obstruction to the navigable
capacity. of waters of the United States. A decree was
entered granting the relief sought, and this was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 240 Fed. Rep. 274.
The Annette Islands are a group of small islands in
southeastern Alaska. During the summer of 1887 some
800 Metlakahtla Indians emigrated from British Columbia
and settled on one of these islands. The emigration and
settlement were not only acquiesced in but encouraged by
executive and administrative officers of the United
States,1 and subsequently were sanctioned by Congress
through the enactment of § 15 of the Act of March 3,
1891, c.561, 26 Stat. 1101. That section reads as follows:
"That until otherwise provided by law the body of
lands known as Annette Islands, situated in Alexander
Archipelago in Southeastern Alaska, on the north side of
Dixon's entrance, be, and the same is hereby, set apart as a
reservation for the use of the Metlakahtla Indians, and
those people known as Metlakahtlans who have recently
emigrated from British Columbia to Alaska, and such
1House Ex. Does., 50th Cong., 1st sess., vol. 10, p. 64, vol. 13, p. 34;
Sen. Mis. Doe., No. 144, 53d Cong., 2d sess.; Sen. Doc., No. 275, 55th
Cong.,- 2d sess.

ALASKA PACIFIC FISHERIES v. UNITED STATES. 87
78.

Opinion of the Court.

other Alaskan natives as may join them, to be held and

used by them in common, under such rules and regulations, and subject to such restrictions, as may [be] prescribed from time to time by the Secretary of the Interior."
The fish-trap was erected in 1916 without the consent
of the Indians or the Secretary of the Interior. It is a
formidable structure consisting of heavy piling and wire

webbing, is located in water of considerable depth, approximately 600 feet from the high tide line of the island
on which the Indians settled, is intended to catch about
600,000 salmon in a single season, and its operation will
tend materially to reduce the natural supply of fish accessible to the Indians.

The principal question for decision is whether the
reservation created by the Act of 1891 embraces only
the upland of the isWands or 'includes as well the adjacent
waters and submerged land. The question is one of
construction-of determining what Congress intended
by the words "the body of lands known as Annette
Islands."
As an appreciation of the circumstances in which words
are used usually is conducive and at times is essential
to a right understanding of them, it is important, in
approaching a solution of the question stated, to have
in mind the circumstances in which the reservation was
created-the power of Congress in the premises, the
location and character of the islands, the situation and

needs of the Indians and the object to be attained.
That Congress had power to make the reservation
inclusive of the adjacent waters and submerged land as
well as the upland needs little more than statement.
All were the property of the United States and within
a district where the entire dominion and sovereignty

rested in the United States and over which Congress had
complete legislative authority. National Bank v. County
of Yankton, 101 U. S. 129, 133; Shively v. Bowlby, 152

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

U. S. 1, 47-48, 58; United States v. Winans, 198 U. S.
371, 383. The reservation was not in the nature of a
private grant, but simply a setting apart, "until otherwise prbvided by law," of designated public property
for a recognized public purpose-that of safe-guarding
and advancing a dependent Indian people dwelling within
the United States. See United States v. Kagama, 118
U. S.375, 379, et seq.; United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S.
432, 437.
The islands are in the interior of the Alexander -Archipelago and separated from other islands by well known
bodies of water. Before the Metlakahtla settlement
'they were wild and uninhabited. While bearing a fair
supply of timber, only a small portion of the upland is
arable, more than three-fourths consisting of mountains
and rocks. Salmon and other fish in large numbers frequent and pass through the waters adjacent to the shore
and the opportunity thus afforded for securing fish for
local consumption and for salting, curing, canning and
sale gives to the islands a value for settlement and inhabitance which otherwise they would not have.
The purpose of the Metlakahtlans, in going to the
islands, was to establish an Indian colony which would
be self-sustaining and reasonably free from the obstacles
which attend the advancement of a primitive people.
They were largely fishermen and hunters, -accustomed
to live from the returns of those vocations, and looked
upon the islands as a suitable location for their, colony,
because the fishery adjacent to the shore would afford
a primary means of subsistence and a promising opportunity for industrial 'and commercial development.
After their 'settlement and' before the reservation was
created, the Indians, under the guidance of a noted missionary, adopted a form of self-government suited to
their needs; established for themselves a village with
substantial dwellings, schoolhouses and the like, and

ALASKA PACIFIC FISHERIES v. UNITED STATES. 89
78.

Opinion of the Court.

constructed and installed an extensive establishment
where they canned salmon for the market.'
The purpose of creating the reservation was to encourage, assist and protect the Indians in their effort
to train themselves to habits of industry, become selfsustaining and advance to the ways of civilized life. True,
the Metlakahtlans were foreign born, but the action of
Congress has made that immaterial here.
The circumstances which we have recited shed much
light on what Congress intended by "the body of lands
known as Annette Islands." The Indians could not
sustain themselves from the use of the upland alone.
The use of the adjacent fishing grounds was equally
essential. Without this the colony could not prosper in
that location. The Indians naturally looked on the
fishing grounds as part, of the islands and proceeded on
that theory in soliciting the reservation. They had done
much for themselves and were striving to do more. Evidently Congress intended to conform its action to their
situation and needs.

It did not reserve merely the site

of their village, or the island on which they were dwelling,
but the whole of what is known as Annette Islands, and
referred to it as a single body of lands. This, as we think,
shows that the geographical name was used, as is sometimes done, in a seise embracing the intervening and
surrounding waters as well as the upland-in other words,
as descriptive of the area comprising the islands.
This conclusion has support in the geneal rule that
statutes passed for the benefit of dependent Indian tribes
or communities are to be liberally construed, doubtful
expressions being resolved in favor of the Indians. Cliote
v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 675, and cases cited. And it
has further support in the facts that, save for the de1House

Ex. Does., 50th Cong., 2d sess., vol. 10, p. cii;

iis. Does., 52d Cong., 1st sess., vol. 50, part 9, pp. 27-29, 188.

hlowe

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S

fendan- conduct in 1916, the statute from the time of
its enactment has been treated, as stated in the.opinion
of the Alaska court, by the Indians and the public, as
reserving the adjacent fishing grounds as well as the upland, and that in regulations prescribed by the Secretaryof the Interior on February 9, 1915, the Indians are
recognized as the only persons to whom permits may
-be issued for erecting salmon traps at these islands.
These views are decisive of the suit and sustain the
decree below.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED DRUG COMPANY v. THEODORE
RECTANUS COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 27. Argued March 12, 13, 1%18.-Decided December 9, 1918.
A right of trade-mark is not a right in gross; it exists only as appurtenant to an established business and for the protection of the good
will thereof. P. 97.
The adoption of a trade-mark does not project the right of protection
in advance of the extension of the-trade. P. 98.
Where A had a trade-mark in Massachusetts, in connection with a
business there and in neighboring States, and B, afterwards, in good
faith, without notice of A's use or intent to injure or forestall A,
adopted the same mark in Kentucky, where A's business theretofore had not extended, and built up a valuable buisiness under it
there, held, that A, upon entering B's field with notice of the situation, had no equity to enjoin B as an infringer, but was estopped.

P. 103.
226 Fed. Rep. 545, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

