BUCKEYE POWDER CO. -r. DuPONT POWDER CO. ,;)i
Syllabus.

BUCKEYE POWDER COMPANY v. E. I.DUPONT
DE NEMOURS POWDER COMPANY ET AL:
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 7. Argued April 30, May 1,1917; restored to docket for reargument
June 10, 1918; reargued November 13, 1818.-Decided December 9,
1918.
In an action for triple aamages under § 7 of the Sherman Act, where
the scope of the declaration, plaintiff's interpretation of it and the
nature of the proofs characterized the case as based on § 2 of the
Act, dealing with attempted and effected monopolies, rather than
on § 1, dealing with contracts and combinations in restraint of
trade, and where the case was fully tried upon this basis, without
objection, and the jury was allowed to consider contracts so far
as they bore upon ihe supposed attempt, to subject plaintiff to a
monopoly,Held: (1) That technical error committed at the close of the trial in
requiring plaintiff to elect whether it would rely on the first or
second section of the act (whereupon it elected the second without
asking to amend,) was harmless. P. 60.
(2) That instructions pointing out that § 2 extends to attempts to
monopolize were advantageous rather than harmful to plaintiff. P.62.
In such an action, where the only ground for holding a defendant is
responsibility (through stock ownership) for the acts of another
defendant, error in directing a verdict for the former is harmless
if the latter be exonerated upon the merits by the jury, after instructions fairly presenting the case against it. P. 62.
Before the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 731, a judgment in a Government proceeding finding a company guilty of an attempt to monopolize was inadmissible in a private action for triple damages under
§ 7 of the Sherman Act. P. 63.
The provisions of § 5 of the Clayton Act for admitting such judgments,
"hereafter rendered" in Government cases, in other litigation, and
for suspending the statute of limitations as to private rights pending
Government prosecutions, do not affect retrospectively, on review,
a judgment rendered in an action for triple damages before the Clayton Act was passed. Id.
A corporation suing for triple damages under the Sherman Act has

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

no ground to complain of the mere existence of a power in trade
attained by a defendant and known fo the organizers of the plaintiff before the plaintiff was created, without proof of some oppressive
use of it afterwards. P. 63.
An instruction held to state correctly that, on the question whether
plaintiff's failure in trade was due to its incapacity or to defendant's
oppression, the jury might consider whether the motive in organizing
plaintiff was to sell out to defendant or to compete. P. 64.
In an action for triple damages under the Sherman Act, the court
excluded statements by third parties of their reasons for refusing
or ceasing to do business with plaintiff. Held correct, as the statements were wanted not as evidence of motives but as evidence of
facts recited as furnishing the motives. P. 65.
Where the. jury found for defendant, rulings as to damages held immaterial. P. 65.
223 Fed. Rep. 881, affirme4.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Twyman 0. Abbott, With whomMr. Willard U. Taylor
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error, among other points,
urged that § 7 of the Sherman Act, prescribing a remedy
for injuries suffered "by reason of anything forbidden or

declared to be unlawful by this act," gives a single and
indivisible right of action, and makes no distinction between the things that are declared to be unlawful by § 1
and those that are declared to, be unlawful by § 2; citing
United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S.1601, 607; Cilley v. United

Shoe Machinery Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 598; Strout v. United
Shoe Machinery Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 602; Corey v. In1ependent Ice Co., 207 Fed. Rep. 459, 463; Monarch
Tobacco Works v. American Tobacco Co., 165 Fed. Rep.
774: People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 170
Fed. Rep. 396, 407; Occidental &c. Co. v. Comstock Tunnel

Co., 111 Fed. Rep. 135. Furthermore, in practically all
equity cases brought by the Government

under the

Sherman Act, both §§ 1 and 2 were involved, and the
Government had never been compelled to elect under

BUCKEYE POWDER CO. -r. DuPONT POWDER CO.
55.

57

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

which section it would proceed. Under the Clayton Act,
it was now provided that private persons might sue in
equity. Act of October 15, 1914, § 16, 38 Stat. 731. If
the ruling of the trial court were correct, the absurd situation would be presented of requiring a private person to
elect in an action at law, but not in an equity proceeding.
The error in requiring an election, was not harmless.
The opinion below, in stating that "practically" all the
evidence was directed to a monopoly, conceded that there
was some to show a contract or combination. But in any
event, plaintiff was entitled to have the scheme or combination considered as a whole, by the jury, and not in
part only.
Amendment at that stage of the case was entirely out
of the question, as a matter of fact, even if not as a matter
of law. Furthermore, the order came as a complete surprise to the plaintiff as it was a reversal of the earlier
position taken by the court upon the motion to strike the
declaration. Plaintiff relied, and had a right to rely,
upon the ruling made at that time, as being the law of
the case.
Defendants did not acquire the right to perpetuate their
monopoly by reason of long continued misconduct; and
the fact that defendants were large and powerful as factors
in the trade and that plaintiff's promoter. had knowledge
of this fact, and of their monopoly and of their practices
and policies in maintaining it, did not alter plaintiff's
.right of action under § 7 of the act -to recover
for injuries
suffered by reason of conduct forbidden by that act.
Plaintiff was not bound to enter the business at its peril
by reason of this knowledge, nor did plaintiff occupy any
different position as a competitor than it would have
occupied if it had been in existence during the period that
the defendant's influence was being developed, and had.
suffered injuries at the hands of the defendants .during
said period or afterwards. In Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

274, it was, said that: "The act made no distinction between classes." It did not create any distinction between
the rights or remedies of a person injured by an unlawful
combinafion, whether such person or corporation was in
existence before the combination had developed its power
and influence, or afterwards; or whether it had previous
knowledge, or acquired it later.
It was unnecessary and improper for the court to instruct the jury upon a supposititious case which was
not in issue. The question was not what would have
been the -plaintiff's rights had it been in existence
earlier, nor what would have been the rights of some
other, person who might not have been cognizant of the
facts. The sole question before the court was, What
are plaintiff's rights now? United States v. Breitling,
20 How. 252; Railroad Co. v. Houston, 95 U. S. 697,
703.
The question whether plaintiff was sufficiently capitalized to compete was a question of fact, not of intention.
Even if the intention had been, as it was not, to be bought
out rather than to compete, that would not afford the
slightest excuse in law for the unlawful acts of the defendants, since the exercise of a legal right cannot be
affected by the motive which controls it. Sullivan v.
Collins, 107 Wisconsin, 291; Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Strait v. National Harrow Co.,
51 Fed. Rep. 819; Northwestern Consolidated Milling Co.
v. Callam & Son, 177 Fed. Rep. 786; Independent Baking
Powder Co. v. Boorman, 130 Fed. Rep. 726.
A combination of individuals engaged in interstate
commerce is a veritable outlaw. It has no right to exist.
And whatever it does "by reason" of which any person
suffers injury, must be compensated for. The contention is that any and all injuries which may be suffered by reason of the competition induced by an unlawful combination in interstate commerce, must be

BUCKEYE POWDER CO. v. DuPONT POWDER CO.
55.

59

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

compensated for regardless of whether the acts which
caused them were "fair" or "unfair," and regardless
-Of whether such acts might have been in themselves
lawful.
It has been several times held by this court that it is
not alone the actual doing of the prohibited thing which
the anti-trust acts strike at, but the power to do it. National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 115, 129; Swift &
Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; United States v.
Trans-MissouriFreight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, 322; Monarch
Tobacco Works v. American Tobacco Co., 165 Fed. Rep.
774, 780.
The reasons given by customers for ceasing to do business with plaintiff, as shown by their letters and by their
statements to its officers and agents, should have been
received. The question of the admissibility of such
evidence is no longer an open one since the decision in
Lawlor v. Loewe, 235 U. S. 522. 3 Wigmore, Evidence,
§ 1729 (2); Elmer v. Fessenden, 151 Massachusetts, 161;
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Hiilmon, 145 U. S. 285, 295. The
testimony rejected by the trial court all touched upon
the vital issue whether the acts charged against the defendants and their co-conspirators had really accomplished the object of "inducing" consumers not to use
plaintiff's product.
The decrees in the "Government Case" which adjudged
the defendants guilty of violation of the Sherman Act
upon a state of facts almost identical with those presented in this case, and directed their, dissolution, should
have been received. Portland Gold Mining Co. v. Stratton's Independence, 158 Fed. Rep. 63. The grounds upon
which plaintiff relies to sustain admissibility are: (1) As
evidence of the fact that the defendants had been adjudged
guilty of forming the same combination and conspiracy
in restraint of trade which was in issue, St. Louis Mutual
Life Ins. Co. v. Cravens, 69 Missouri, 72; 1. Greenleaf.

OCTOB3ER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Evidence (16th ed.), § 538; National Cash Register Case,
222 Fed. Rep. 599, 629; Coffey v. United States, 116 U. S.
436. (2) As an admission of guilt. Last Chance Mining
Co. v. Tyler Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683, 691; United States
v. Parker, 120 U. S. 89; Nashville &c. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 113 U. S. 261.
As supporting the first of these grounds, it was important to consider that plaintiff's president and chief promotor and sponsor made the petition which led to the
government suit, assisted actively and was virtually
treated as the plaintiff in that case,-facts which were
fully brought out by the defendants in this one. As supporting the second ground, the decree in the government
case was made by consent, after months of negotiation.
Mr. William H. Button and Mr. Frank S. Katzenbach,
Jr., with whom Mr. John P. Laffey was on the brief, for
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the'

court.
This is an action brought by the plaintiff in error to
iocover triple damages under the Sherman Act, July 2,
1890, c. 647, § 7, 26 Stat. 209, 210. There'was a trial that
lasted five months, in which the facts were shown at great
length, and after a very full and fair charge by the presiding judge the- jury found a verdict in favor of the
principal defendant, the E. I. DuPont de Nemours Powder
Company, on the merits, and for the other two by direction of the Court. Elaborate exceptions were taken but
they were overruled by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
223 Fed. Rep. 881. 139 C. C. A. 319.
The first one that we shall deal with complains of the
Court's sustaining a motion at the end of the trial that
1he plaintiff should elect whether it would. rely upon the

BUCKEYE POWDER CO. t..
DuPONT POWDER CO. 61
55.

Opinion of the Court.

first or the second section of the Sherman Act. If the
case were different the question presented might be grave.
In the one before the Court the only error was in the use
of the word election and the implied admission that the
trial possibly could be taken not to have proceeded upon
the second section of the act, coupled of,course with § 7,
giving 'a private action to persons injured by breach of
the statute. The first section deals with contracts in
restraint of trade, the second with monopolizing and'
attempting to monopolize it. The declaration, after
stating the organization of the plaintiff in January, 1903,
for the purpose of manufacturing and selling powder,
particularly black blasting powder, alleges a long previous
conspiracy on the part of various companies to monopolize
the trade in explosives, which ended in the organization
of the E. I. DuPont de Nemours Powder Company in
May, 1903, in order more completely to carry out that
end. It is alleged that the defendants and others have
carried out that end, and that in pursuance of it they did
acts, detailed at great length, for the purpose of compelling the plaintiff to-join them or else go out of business.
That, with an allegation that they succeeded ansi lorced
the plaintiff to sell out at a loss, is the whole scope of the
declaration. There was a motion to strike it out for
duplicity, but the motion was overruled on the ground
that the declaration was as we have stated. 196 Fed.
Rep. 514. The trial proceeded on that footing without
complaint. So far as contracts bore upon the supposed
attempt to subject plaintiff to the monopoly the jury
was allowed to consider them. The case was fully tried
upon the ground taken by the plaintiff at the outset and
the only one on which it could hope to succeed. The
plaintiff did not ask to amend. It is unnecessary to
advert to the statement of the judge that in his opinion
the exception to be considered should have the whole
record behind it, or whether, as has been suggestc(, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opitrion of the Court.,

248 U. S.

second section is not the only one addressed to transactions such as were alleged. Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 197, 404. When the plaintiff,
after the ruling of the judge, went through the form of
electing to rely upon acts done contrary to § 2 of the
statute, it simply adhered to the interpretation of its
declaration that it had accepted at the beginning rnd had
endeavored to sustain throughout. Portions of the
charge axe criticised in this connection for pointing out
to the jury that § 2 embraced not only monopoly but
attempts to monopolize. But this was wholly to the
plaintiff's advantage, as it explained that if the plaintiff
was driven out of business by the defendant's acts it was
entitled to recover if those acts were done in the course of
an attempt to monopolize, whether or not they were
crowned with success. It allowed the jury to consider
everything that indicated such an attempt.
Next in importance is an exception to the Court's
directing a verdict in favor of the Eastern Dynamite
Company and the International Smokeless Powder and
Chemical Company. There were no acts done by either
of these companies that were aimed at the plaintiff. The
only substantial grouhif for charging them was that if
they were parties to a conspiracy as alleged they became
responsible for the acts of the DuPont Company as their
own. As the jury exonerated the latter company this
ground fails. So that even if the ruling was wrong it
did no harm unless something more can be found in the
case. Portland Gold Mining Co. v. Stratton's.Independence, 158.Fed. Rep. (532 The ruling did not import that
there was no evidence against the DuPont Company,
the case against which was put fairly to the jury, but that
there was no evidence that the other defendants conspired with it, so far at least as the plaintiff was concerned.
These companies did not make black blasting powder
and had no interest immediately adverse to the plaintiff.

BUCKEYE POWDER CO. v. DuPONT POWDER CO.
55.

63

Opinion of the Court.

The basis of the charge of conspiracy affecting the black
blasting powder business was that the DuPont Company
directly or through another company was interested in
their stock. No other is suggested in the declaration and
it would be hard to extract any act from the evidence.
Certainly none could be found that was more than an
infinitesimal fraction of those done by the DuPont Company. Here again the Court was of opinion that the
exception to be considered should have the whole record
behind it, but on the record as it stands we think it sufficiently appears that the plaintiff suffered no real harm.
The next matter requires but a few words. The plaintiff offered in evidence decrees in a proceeding by the
Government finding the DuPont Company guilty under
the Sherman Act of an attempt to monopolize. 188 Fed.
Rep. 127. These of course were held inadmissible. The
Court also ruled that the statute of limitations barred
recovery for any damage suffered before September 18,
1905, six years before the beginning of the present suit.
The plaintiff now contends that the Clayton Act of
October 15, 1914, c. 323, § 5, 38 Stat. 731, making admissible such criminal judgments "hereafter rendered,"
in some way should affect our decision upon a ruling made
years before, and that by virtue of the same section the
running of the statute of limitations was suspendedI retrospectively as to claims already barred, -pending the
Government suit. These matters do not need more than
a statement of what was argued and what was done.
Another exception seems to us over-critical. Mr.
Waddell, the organizer of the plaintiff corporation and
chief witness on its behalf, started it directly after leaving
the DuPont Company, with which he had been for many
years. He knew all the elements of the situation before
he embarked on the venture, and did not do so until the
DuPont Company had reached the height of its power.
The judge remarked in his charge that the plaintiff did

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

not stand like a competitor that had been in existence
while the defendant's influence was being developed and
that had been injured in its business during the course of
such development-that the mere existence of the defendant's power as it was when the plaintiff wag born was
not in itself a cause of action to the plaintiff, but that
the plaintiff must show that the defendant used its power
oppressively, if not against the plaintiff, at least in the
course of defendant's business. Thin was innocuous truth.
The plaintiff could not be called into being in order to
maintain a suit for conduct that made it not pay to be
born. Claims for such antenatal detriments are not much
favored by the law. See National Council, United American
Mechanics, v. State Council of Virginia, 203 U. S. 151, 161.
Another statement in the charge concerning Mr.
Waddell's knowledge of the defendant's power and policy
is complained of, but the complaint seems to us based
upon a perversion of its meaning. The' defendant had
put in evidence tending to show that Mr. Waddell organized the plaintiff merely to sell it out to the defendant,
without any real intent to compete. The Court said
that of course Mr. Waddell had a right to go into business
and that his motive was of little moment so far as that
was concerned, but that it might have a bearing on the
question whether the plaintiff was sufficiently capitalized
to meet normal conditions, adding that it did not matter
whether it was or not as against a competition forced
upon it by unlawful means. This is treated as if it had
made the motive an answer to the-claim. What it really
did was to state correctly that, on the question whether
the plaintiff's failure was due to the defendant's oppression or to the plaintiff's incapacity, the jury in estimating
the evidence and finding what the facts were might consider Mr. Waddell's motive if they should find'it to havre
been what the defendant alleged.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that it is not

WATTEIf8 r. MICHIGAN.
55.

Syllabus.

necessary to deal specifically with all the details brought
up by the dragnet of the plaintiff's exceptions and assignments of error, sixty-nine in number and occupying more
than sixty pages of the record. Central Vermont Ry. Co.
v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 508, 509. Several exceptions were
taken to the exclusion of statements by third persons of
their reasons for refusing or ceasing to do business with
the plaintiff. We should be slow to overthrow a judgment on the ground of either the exclusion or admission
of such statements except in a very strong case. But
the exclusion in this instance was proper. The statement was wanted not as evidence of the motives of the
speakers but as evidence of the facts recited as furnishing
the motives. Lawlor v. Loewe, 235 U. S. 522, 536; Elmer
v. Fessenden, 151 Massachusetts, 359, 362. In view of
the finding of the jury the rulings as to damages are
immaterial and need no discussion here. The defendant
put in evidence tending to show that its conduct was not
the cause of the plaintiff's failure, and its evidence, or
the weakness of the plaintiff's, prevailed. Our conclusion upon the whole case is that the plaintiff has had
a fair trial and that the judgment should not be disturbed.
Judgment affirmed.
WATTERS v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 58.

Submitted November 19,1918.-Decided December 9,1918.

Whether a city ordinance regulating peddling and canvassing from
house to house for sale of property on subscription, is confined to
a general course of such business or applies also to isolated transactions, is a local question determinable by the state court.
192 Michigan, 462, affirmed.

