OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

arisen from conflicting use of the mark is attributable to
petitioner's entry into the field with notice of the situation; and petitioner cannot complain of this. As already
stated, respondent is not complaining of it.
Decree affirmed.

RUDDY v. ROSSI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 17.

Submitted November 13, 1918.-DeQided December 9, 1918.

Section 4,of the Homestead Act of May 20, 1862, (§ 2296, Rev. Stats.),
providing that no lands acquired 'under the act shall in any event
become liable to the satisfaction of any debt contracted prior to
the issuance of patent therefor, -applies as well to debts contracted
after final entry and before patent as to debts contracted before
final proof, and in both respects is within the constitutional power
of Congress.

28 Idaho, 376, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles E. Miller for plaintiff in error. Mr. A. H.
Featherstone was also on the brief:
The jurisdiction of the Interior Department respecting
a homestead entry is not divested until the patent is
issued. [Citing Land Decisions.]
The doctrine of relation is inapplicable in the construction of the statute. Debts contracted after final
entry but before patent are within the intention no less
than the clear letter. Wallowa National Bank v. Riley,
29 Oregon, 289; Watson v. Voorhees, '14 Kansas, 254;
Doran v. Kennedy, 237 U. S. 362; Hussman v. Durham,
165 U. S. 144; (-f. Leopard v. Ross 23 Kansas, 292);

RUI)DY v. ROSSI.
104.

Opinion of the Court.

Seymour v. Sanders, 3 Dill. 437; Brun v. Mann, 151 Fed.
Rep. 145; In re Kohn, 171 Fed. Rep. 570; In re Parmeter's
Estate, 211 Fed. Rep. 757; Grames v. Consolidated Timber
Co., 215 Fed. Rep. 785.
Numerous decisions by the Supreme Courts of Arizona,
Arkansas , California, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska,
Oregon, South, Dakota, Washington and Wisconsin
reach the same conclusion.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the court.
By "An act to secure homesteads to actual settlers
on the public domain," approved May 20, "1862, c. 75,
12 Stat. 392, Congress prescribed the conditions under
which citizens could acquire unappropriated public
lands in tracts of not exceeding one hundred and sixty
acres. A manifest purpose was to induce settlement
upon and cultivation of these lands by those who, five
years after proper entry, would become owners in fee
through issuance of patents. The great end in view was
to convert waste places into permanent homes. Such
occupancy and use constituted a most important consideration and were rightly expected to yield larger
public benefits than the small required payment of one
dollar and a quarter per acre.
Decision of this cause requires us to consider the meaning and validity of § 4 of the act (Rev. Stats., § 2296)
which provides: "No lands acquired under the provisions
of this act shall in any event become liable to the satisfaction of any debt or debts contracted prior to the issuing
6f the patent therefor."
Plaintiff in error made preliminary homestead entry
of designated land within the State of Idaho August 6,
1903; submitted final proofs October 4, 1909; obtained

106

OCTOBER, TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

final receipt and certificate November 12, 1909; final
patent issued August 26, 1912. In 1914 two judgments
were obtained against him, the first upon indebtedness
incurred prior to November 12, 1909; the second upon
debts contracted subsequent to that date and prior to
patent. Executions were issued and levied upon the
homestead; and thereupon the proceeding under review
was begun to declare asserted liens invalid and a cloud
upon the title. The court below held the first judgment
unenforceable against the land since it represented indebtedness which accrued prior to final entry. It further
held the second judgment could be so enforced as it was
based upon debts contracted after final entry, at which
time the homesteader became legally entitled to his
patent. 28 Idaho, 376.
The language of § 4 is clear and we find no adequate
. reason for thinking that it fails precisely to express the
law-maker's intention.
Did Congress have power to restrict alienation of
homestead lands after conveyance by the United States
in fee simple? This question undoubtedly presents
difficulties which we are not disposed to minimize. In
Wright v. Morgan, 191 U. S. 55, 58, a similar point was
suggested but not decided.
The Constitution declares "The Congress shall have
power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the JiJMited States"; and it is settled that Congress
has plenary power to dispose of public lands. United
States v. Gratiot, 14 Pet. 526, 537. They may be leased,
sold or given away upon such terms and conditions as
the public interests require. Instead of granting fee
simple titles with exemption from certain debts, long
leases might have been made or conditional titles bestowed in such fashion as practically to protect homesteads from all indebtedness.

RUDDY v. ROSSI.
104.

Opinion per HOLMES, J.

"The sound construction of the Constitution must
allow to the national legislature that discretion, with
respect to the means by which the powers it confers are
to be carried into oxecution, which will enable that body
to perform the high duties assigned to it, in the manner
most beneficial to the people. Let the end be legitimate,
let it be within the scope of the Constitution, arid all
means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted
to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with
the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421.
Acting within its discretion, Congress determined that
in order promptly to dispose of public lands and bring
about their permanent occupation and development
it was proper to create the designated exemption; and
we are unable to say that the conclusion was ill-founded
or that the means were either prohibited or not appropriate to the adequate performance of the high duties
which the legislature owed to the public.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES:

This case involves a question of theory that may be
important and I think it desirable to state the considerations that make me doubt. The facts needing to be mentioned are few. On August 26, 1912, the United States
conveyed land in Idaho to Ruddy in fee simple, in pursuance of a homestead entry by Ruddy on August 6,
1903, final proof on October 4, 1909, and final receipt of
the purchase price on November 12, 1909. In September,
1912, after the conveyance, Rossi began suits against
Ruddy, attaching this land, and in June, 1914, levied
executions upon the same. The debts for which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion per HOL ES, J.

248 U. 8.

suits were brought were incurred before the issue of the
patent and the present proceeding is to prevent Rossi
from selling the land to satisfy he judgments. The question arises under Rev. Stats., § 2296, providing that no
lAnds acquired under that chapter shall in any event

become liable to the satisfaction of any debt contraeted
prior to the issuing of the patent therefor, The Supreme
Court of Idaho narrowed the issue to the case of debts
contracted after final proof, but that distinction is not
important to the difficulty in my mind.
My question is this: 'When land has left the ownership
and control of the jUnited States and is part of the territory
of a State not different from any other privately owned
land within the jurisdiction and no more subject to legislation on the part of the United States than any other
land, on what ground is a previous law of Congress supposed any longer to affect it in a way that a subsequent
one could not? This land was levied upon not on the
assertion that any lien upon it was acquired before the
title passed from the United States, but merely as any
other land might be attached for a-debt that Rossi had a
right to collect, after the United States had left the premises. I ask myself what the United"States has to do with
thnt. There is no condition, n6 reserved right of retntry,
do reversion in the United States, saved either under
the Idaho law - any private grantor might save it, or
by virtue. of antecedent title. All interest of the United
St- tes as ovwner is at an end. It is a stranger to the title.
Even in case of an escheat the land would not go to it,
but would go to the State. Therefore the statute must
operate, if at all, purely by way of legislation, not.as a
qualification of the grant. If § 2296 is construed to
apply to this case, there is simply the naked assumption
of one sovereignty to impose its will after whatever jurisdiction or authority it had has ceased and the land has
come fully vnder the jurisdiction of what for this purpose

RUDDY v. 1POSSI.
104.

Opinion per HOLMES, J.

is a different power. It is a pure attempt to regulate the
alienability of land in Idaho by law, without regard to
the will of Idaho, which we must assume on this record
to authorize the levy if it is not prevented by an act of
Congress occupying a paramount place.
I believe that this Court never has gone farther in the
way of sustaining legislation concerning land within a
State than to uphold a law forbidding the enclosure of
public lands, which little, if at all, exceeded the rights of
a private owner,- although it was construed to prevent
the erection of fences upon the defendants' own property
manifestly for the sole purpose of enclosing land of the
United States. Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518.
At most it was a protection of the present interests of the
United States under a title paramount to the State. On
the other hand, it is said in Pollardv. Hagan, 3 How. .212,
224, that no power in the nature of municipal sovereignty
can be exercised by the United States within a State;
that such a power is repugnant to the Constitution. This
case was referred to in Withers v. Buckley,: 20 How. 84,
and it was decided that the act of Congress authorizing
the formation of the State of Mississippi and providing
that the Mississippi River should be forever free "could
have no effect to restrict the new State in any of its necessary attributes as an independent sovereign government," and both these cases were cited upon this point
with approval in Ward v. Racehorse, 163 U. S. 504, 511,
512. See also Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S.1, 27. In Irvine
v.Marshall, 20 How. 558, where it was held that the laws
of a territory abolishing constructive trusts were ineffectual to protect the holder of a certificate from the United
States against the establishment of, such a trust, it was
said that "whep the subject, and all control over it, shall
have passed from the United States, and have become
vested in a citizen or resident of the territory, then indeed
the territorial regulations may. operate upon it," and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion per HOLMES, J.

248 U. S.

later in the decision there is cited a passage from Wilcox v.
Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 517, to the same effect-a passage
also cited and relied upon by the foui justices who' dissented and held that the territorial laws govern6d even
then. It has been repeated ever since. McCune v. Essig,
199 U. S. 382, 390. Buchser v. Buchser, 231 U. S. 157, 161.
Coming to the precise issue, the question of the power
of the United States to restrict alienation of land within
a State after it had conveyed the land in fee was left
open in Wright v. Morgan, 191 U. S. 55, 58, but it was
said that the clearest expression would be necessary before it would be admitted that such a restriction was
imposed. In Buchser v. Buchser, 231 U. S. 157, it was held
that the laws of the United States did not prevent homestead land becoming community property at the moment
that title was acquired, and it was said that, the acquisition under the United States law being complete, that
law had released its control. The statement in Wilcox v.
Jackson, supra, 'hat when the title has passed the land
"like all other property in the State is subject to the state
legislation," was repeated. In Alabama v. Schmidt, 232
U. S. 168, following Cooper v. Roberts, 18 How. 173, it
was held that land conveyed to the State by the United
States for the use of schools could be acquired by adverse
possession under state law, and that the trust, although
as was said in the earlier case "a sacred obligation imposed on, its public, faith" imposed only an honorary
obligation on the State. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, was distinguished as having
been decided on the ground that in the grant to the Railway there was an implied condition of reverter in case
the company ceased to hold the lanc -or the purpose for
which it was granted, a ground, which, as I have said, is
absent here.
It is said that where a statute is susceptible of two
constructions, by one of which grave constitutional

RUDDY v. ROSSI.
104.

111

Opinion per HOLMES, J.

questions arise and by the other of which they are avoided,
our duty is to adopt the latter. United States v. Delaware
& Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 408. I am aware that this
principle like some others more often is invoked in aid
of a conclusion reached on other grounds than made
itself the basis of decision, but it seems to me that it
properly should govern here. It might without violence.
When the Act of 1862, now Rev. Stats-) § 2296, was passed,
the United States owned territories to which it could be
applied with full scope. Irvine v. Marshall, 20 How. 558.
The greater part of the public land was in those territories. Without stopping to suggest other possibilities
of construction this fact is enough to explain and give
validity to the act when passed. There is no need to
import to it the intent to anticipate the future and to
reach the States that were still in the bosom of time.
Of course the United States has power to choose appropriate means for exercising the authority given to it by
the Constitution. But. I see no sufficient ground for
extending that authority to a case like this. It is not
the business of the United States to determine the policy
to be pursued concerning privately owned land within
a State. According to all cases in this Court, so far as
I know, when the patent issued its authority was at an
end.
I am aware that my doubts are contrary to manifest
destiny and to a number of decisions in the State Courts.
I know also that when common understanding and practice have established a way it is a waste of time to wander
in bypaths of logic. But as I have a real difficulty in
understanding how the congressional restriction is held
to 'govern this case--a question which nothing that
have heard as yet appears to me to answer-I think it
worth while to mention my misgivings, if only to show
that they have been considered and are not shared.

