ALLANWILDE CORP. v. VACUUM OIL CO.
372.

377

Syllabus.

These decisions, a few from many to li'.e effect, should
suffice to satisfy the most skeptical or belated investigator that the right of private contract must yield to the
exigencies of the public welfare when determined in an
appropriate manner by the authority of the State, and
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia must be
Affirmed.

ALLANWILDE TRANSPORT CORPORATION v.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY.
SAME v. PIDWELL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 449, 450.

Argued December 12,- 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

A charter of a sailing vessel and the bill of lading provided "Freight
to be prepaid net on signing bills of lading," "Freight earned, retained and irrevocable, vessel lost or not lost." The vessel endeavored in good faith to make the voyage but was delayed by a
storm requiring her return for repairs, and then indefinitely by the
act of the Government in denying clearance to sailing vessels destined
for the war zone. ffeld, that the carrier was relieved of the obligation to carry and need not secure transportation by other means or
refund the prepaid freight. P. 385.
The bill of lading for other goods for the same voyage provided that
the full freight should be due and payable on receipt of goods by the
carrier, and that any payment in respect of them should be deemed
fully earned and due and payable to the carrier at any stage before
or after loading, without deduction, if unpaid, or refund in whole
or in part, if paid, "goods or vessel lost or not lost, or if the voyage
be broken up." It also exempted the carrier from liability "for any
loss, damage, delay or default, . . . by arrest or restraint of
governments, princes, rulers, or peoples." Held, ut supra. P. 386.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Vacuum Oii Co. and Pidwel.

248 U. S.

Mr. Oscar D. Duncan, with whom Mr. Russell T. Mount
and Mr. Couriland Palmer were on the brief, for Allanwilde Transport Corporation.
Mr. John C. Prizerfor Vacuum Oil Co. and Pidwell:
Freight is the compensation payable ior the carriage
and proper delivery at destination of the cargo. Scrutton,
Charter Parties, Art. 136; 2 Parsons, Contracts, 9th ed.,
p. 422; Kirchner v. Venus, 12 Moo. P. C. 361; Tirrell v.
Gage, 4 Allen, 245. If, for any reason, other than fault
of the shipper, the cargo fails to arrive at destination in
merchantable condition, no freight is earned. Asfar &
Co. v. Blundell, [1896] 1 Q. B. 123; The Harriman,9 Wall.
161; The Kimball, 3 Wall. 37, 44, 45; Willett v. Phillips,
8 Ben. 459; Burn Line v. United States & Australasia
S. S. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 298. Where the voyage is intcrrupted by any cause, even by an excepted peril, the
vessel may forward the cargo by another vessel to earn
its freight; unless it does so, no freight is earned. Hunter
v. Prinsep, 10 East, 378; The Tornado, 108 U. S. 342, 347;
1 Parsons, Admiralty and Shipping, p. 231.
Where a contract provides for prepayment of freight
and delivery is prevented by some cause excepted in the
charter-party, the American authorities, contrary to the
English rule, require that the freight be refunded, since
it has not in fact been earned. The Kimball, supra; National Steam Nay. Co. v. International Paper Co., 241
Fed. Rep. 861, 862.
A stipulation that prepaid freight shall be irrevocable
cannot lessen the obligation to perform the voyage or
enlarge the exceptions by which the vessel has stipulated
to excuse nonperformance. Even under the English rule
prepaid freight can be recovered if the vessel has failed to
perform the voyage in consequence of a cause against
which -it has not provided in its contract. Great Indian
Ry. Co. v. Turnbvil, 53 L. T. 325; Dufourcet & Co. v.

ALLANWILDE CORP. v. VACUUM OIL CO.
377.

379

Argument for Vacuum Oil Co. and Pidwell.

Bishop, 18 Q. B. D. 373; ,Weir & Co. v. Girvin & Co.,
[19001 1 Q. B. 45; Scrutton, Charter Parties, 7th ed.,
p. 304, note f.
The principle that impossibility of performance is no
excuse is peculiarly applicable to maritime contracts;
it is a frequent occurrence that performance becomes impossible, and it is important to know in advance which
party has assumed the risk. It is therefore the universal
practice to insert an enumeration of the perils for which
the parties shall not be held responsible. ScrutLon, Charter Parties, Art. 79; Carver, Carriage by Sea, 6th ed.,
ยง 74; Anson, Contracts, p. 325.
In the absence of an exception expressed in the contract, impossibility of performance is no excuse. Spence
v. Chodwick, 10 Q. B. 517; Hills v. Sughrue, 15 M. & W.
253; Kearon v. Pearson, 7 H. & N. 386; Jacobs v. Credit
Lyonnais, 12 Q. B. D. 589; Carver, Carriage by Sea, ยง 74.
Even an absolute obligation of the charterer to load or
discharge within a given number of days is not excused
by a circumstance beyond his control. Budgett v. Binningion, [18911 1 Q. B. 35, 40, 41; Thies v. Byers, 1 Q. B. D.
";Empire Transp. Co. v. Philadelphia&c. Co., 77 Fed.
" 2.919, 921.
An embargo does not abrogate but simply suspends the
performance of a charter-party. Hadley v. Clark, 8
Term Rep. 259, 265-268. That case has been followed
in this country in every case involving embargo. Odlin
v. Insurance Co., 2 Wash. C. C. 312, 317. 318; M'Bride v.
Marine Ins. Co., 5 Johns. 299, 308; Palmer v. Lorillard,
16 Johns. 348; Bayliss v. Fettyplace, 7 Massachusetts,
324; Tirrell v. Gage, 4 Allen, 245; Loren, & Steinmetz v.
South Carolina Ins. Co., 1 Nott & McC. 505, 509; Kelly
v. Johnson, 3 Wash. C. C. 45; Braithwaite v. Power, 1
N. Dak. 455. See also Carver, Carriage by Sea, ยง 242;
Abbott, Merchant Ships and Seamen, 14th ed., p. 874;
2 Parsons, Contracts, p. 828. The recent English cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Vacuum Oil Co. and Pidwell.

248 U. S.

relied on by the carrier, and which are cited in Scrutton,
Charter Parties, 8th ed., p. 91, as discrediting the authority
of Hadley v. Clark, were not embargo cases, but were
cases in which the parties sought to rely upon the principles of that case by analogy.
An embargo is almost inevitably indefinite as to duration.

M'Bride v. Marine Ins. Co., supra. It does not

render performance illegal within the usual meaning of
the term "illegality." Lorent & Steinmetz v. South Carolina Ins. Co., supra; 2 Parsons, Contracts, p. 828; Bayliss
v. Fettyplace, supra.

That the shipper, upon giving security, may compel the
surrender of his cargo is suggested in Palmer v. Lorillard,
supra. In Braithwaitev. Power, supra, the vessel was held

entitled to retain the cargo until resumption of navigation was possible, in order to earn freight.
The carrier, in repudiating its contracts and requiring
the shippers to retake their cargoes without returning the
prepaid freight and without giving security or promising
to carry out the voyage upon the lifting of the embargo,
committed a breach of contract. The measure of damages
is not merely the amount of the prepaid freight, but the
full damages sustained in consequence of the failure to
transport the cargo or cause it to be transported to destination.
The doctrine of "frustration of venture" as urged by
the carrier, is properly applicable only to contracts, or
the severable portions thereof, remaining executory on
both sides. With respect to a contract wholly executory
on both sides, while it may well be said that the happening of an event not anticipated by either party dissolves
the contract, it is idle to speak of dissolution where one
party has paid in advance the full considerat-on for a
rervice to be rendered by the other.
The carrier, by failing to insert any exceptions in its
charter-pqrty or bill of lading (other than the dangers

ALLANWILDE CORP. v. VACUUM OIL CO.
377.

381

Opinion of the Court.

of the seas) assumed an absolute obligation to deliver the
cargo at destination. In almost every maritime case
cited by it, the contract contained an exception of "restraint of Iprinces, rulers, or peoples," which was expressly relied upon by the parties. The effect of the absence of exceptions is illustrated by Hills v. Sughrue,
supra; Budgett v. Binnington, supra; The Harriman,
supra; Empire Transp. Co. v. Philadelphia &c. Co.,
supra. The cases of The Kronprinzessin Cecilie, 244 U. S.
12, and Watts, Walls & Co. v. Mitsui &"Co., [1916] 2 K. B.
826; [1917] A. C. 227, are not authority for the proposi-

tion that the omission of such an exception is immaterial.
In view of the emphasis laid upon the exception in both
cases, and the fact that the cases, relied upon by this
court in reaching its decision in the former case, contained
a restraint of princes exception which was the principal
reliance of the defense, they are authorities illustrating
the practical importance of such an exception. See also
Nobel's Explosives Co. v. Jenkins, [1896] 2 Q. B. 326;
Geipel v. Smith, L. R. 7 Q. B. 404. That such an exception is necessary to excuse the vessel in the present cases
is the view of the court in The Gracie D. Chambers, 253
Fed. Rep. 182.
The carrier not only inserted no restraint of princes
clause to qualify its obligation, but expressly negatived
such an exception by excepting "dangers of the seas only."
Certainly the court will not imply a restraint of princes
exception for the exclusive benefit of the carrier while
leaving it in possession of the prepaid compensation for
which the service has not been rendered.
MR. JUSTICE MCK.ENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The questions in the cases arise upon libels filed against

the "Allanwilde" to recover prepaid freight for the trans-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

portation of certain goods and merchandise to designated
ports in Europe.
The solution of the questions turns upon (1) the asserted prevention of the adventure by a storm at sea which
the vessel encountered, requiring her return to port for
repairs, and (2) afterwards by the restraining power of
the Government.
On November 1, 1917, the "Allanwilde," owned by the
Allanwilde Transport Corporation, was seized upon libels
filed by the Vacuum Oil Company and A. W. Pidwell,
respectively, each of which had shipped certain goods to
be carried from New York to Rochefort, France.
In May, 1917, the Oil Company chartered the vessel to
carry a cargo of oil in barrels at the rate of $16.50 a barrel
(changed afterwards to $15.25).
The charter party contained, inter. alia, the following
provisions:
. ..
freight to be prepaid net on signing bills of
lading in United States gold or equivalent, free of discount, commission, or insurance. Freight earned, retained and irrevocable, vessel lost or not lost."
On August 25, the oil having been loaded, the vessel
issued a bill of lading containing, inter alia, the following
provision: "All conditions and exceptions of charterparty are to be considered as embodied in this bill of lading."
Pidwell was permitted to ship certain kegs of nails on
the vessel, and on August 15 a bill of lading was issued
to him. Inter alia, it provided that the carrier should not
be liable for loss, damage, delay or default "by causes
by arbeyond the carrier's reasonable control; .
rest or restraint of governments, princes, rulers, or
peoples;
.
by prolongation of the voyage:
It is provided in paragraph 5 of the bill of lading that
"full freight to destination, whether intended to be pre-

ALLANWILDE CORP. v. VACUUM OIL CO.
377.

383

Opinion of the Court.

paid or collect at destination, and all advance charges
.

.

.

are due and payable to (the .Allanwilde Trans-

port Corporation) upon receipt of the goods by the latter;
. . . and any payments made . . . in respect
of the goods . . . shall be deemed fully earned and

due and payable to the carrier at any stage before or after
loading of the service hereunder without deduction (if

unpaid), or refund in whole or in part (if paid), goods or
vessel lost or not lost, or if the voyage be broken up;
In pursuance of the contracts thus attested the oil and
the nails were shipped on the "Allanwilde" and the
freight was paid in advance-$49,745.50 for the oil and
$3,128.00 for the nails.
The vessel was seaworthy and properly manned and
equipped, and set sail September 11. After she had been
out about fourteen days and was about five hundred miles
from New York, she encountered a storm so severe that
her boats were carried away and she sprang a leak so
threatening that the water in her hold was three or four
feet deep and was gaining on the pumps. Thereupon the
master properly decided that he must seek a port of refuge
for safety and repair. Halifax was about five hundred
miles away, but in that direction the wind was against
him, while it was favorable for New York, and on this
account as well as for other good reasons be headed for
New York, where he arrived on October 5, having been
out twenty-four days. Repairs were undertaken at once,
the cargo remaining on board meanwhile.
"On September 28, while the vessel was at sea, the
government decided to refuse clearance thereafter to any
sailing vessel bound for the war zone.

..

. The

master did not know of this decision until the vessel returned to New York; he received no information from
the shore after September 11. The repairs being finished,
the vessel attempted to resume her voyage, but clearance

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

was refused, and none could be obtained in spite of her
efforts to induce the government to modify its stand.
Toward the end of October the shippers were notified by
the carrier to unload their goods, and this they did, but
under protest and reserving their rights. Afterwards,
the oil was forwarded by steamship, but at a higher rate

of freight and under other charges. What became of the
nails after they were unloaded, does not appear. The
vessel declined to refund the freight to either shipper,

and the libels were filed to recover not only the prepaid
freight, but also damages for failure to carry. On each
libel the District Court entered a decree for the prepaid
freight alone, refusing recovery for the other damages."
Upon these facts the Circuit Court of Appeals have certified four questions, two in each libel, as follows:
"1. Was the adventure frustrated, and was the contract evidenced by the charter-party and by the bill of
lading issued to the Oil Co. dissolved, so as to relieve the

carrier from further obligation to carry the oil?
"2. Whatever answer may be given to the first question, did the contract thus evidenced justify the carrier
under the facts stated in refusing to refund the prepaid
freight?
"3. Was the adventure frustrated, and was the contract evidenced by the bill of lading issued to Pidwell dissolved, so as to relieve the carrier from further obligation
to carry the nails?
"4. Whatever answer may be given to the third question, did the contract thus evidenced justify the carrier
under the facts stated in refusing to refund the prepaid
freight?"
A copy of the charter party and copies of the bills of
lading are attached to the certificate and also the official
bulletin refusing clearance to "sailing vessels destined
to proceed through the war zone."
The argument of counsel upon the elements of the ques-

ALLANWILDE CORP. v. VACUUM OIL CO
377.

385

Opinion of the Court.

tions is quite extensive, ranging through all of the ways
in which contracts can be dissolved or their performance
excused by the agreement of the parties or prevented
by some supervening cause independent of the parties
and dominating their convention. We do not think it is
necessary to follow the argument through that range. It
may be brought to the narrower compass of the charter
party and the bills of lading.
The physical events and what they determined are
certified. First, there was the storm, compelling the return of the ship to New York to avert greater disaster;
then the action of the Government precluding a second
departure. Does the contract of the parties provide for
su h situation and take care of it, and assign its consequences? The charter party provides, as we have seen,
that "freight to be prepaid net on signing bills of lading.
.

.

.

Freight earned, retained and irrevocable, vessel

lost or not lost." And it is provided that this provision
is, with other provisions, "to be embodied" in the bill of
lading. They seem necessarily, therefore, deliberately
adopted to be the measure of the rights and obligations
of shipper and carrier. Let us repeat: the explicit declaration is-"Freight to be prepaid net on signing bills of
lading.

.

.

. Freight earned, retained and irrevocable,

vessel lost or not lost." The provision was not idle or
accidental. It is easy to make a charge of injustice against
it if we consider only the defeat of the voyage and the
non-carriage of the cargo. But there are opposing considerations. There were expected hazards and contingencies in the adventure and, we must presume that the
contract was framed in foresight of both and in provision
for both. We cannot step in with another and different
accommodation. It is urged, however, that there is no
provision in the contract (charter party and bill of lading) of the Oil Company excepting "restraint of princes,
rulers and peoples" and that, therefore, the carrier was

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

not relieved from its obligation by the refusal of clearance
to sailing vessels. And it is further urged that such embargo was at most but a temporary impediment and the
cargo should have been retained until the impediment was
removed or transported in a vessel not subject to it. We
cannot concur in either contention. The duration was of
indefinite extent. Necessarily, the embargo would be
continued as long as the cause of its imposition-that is,
the submarine menace-and that, as far as then could be
inferred, would be the duration of the war, of which there
could be no estimate or reliable speculation. The condition was, therefore, so far permanent as naturally and
justifiably to determine business judgment and' action
depending upon it. The Kronprinzessin Cecilie, 244 U. S.
12.
There is no imputation of bad faith. The carrier demonstrated an appreciation of its obligations and undertook their discharge. It was stopped, first by storm, and
then prevented by the interdiction of the Government.
In neither situation was it inactive. It quickly repaired
the effects of the former and protested against the latter,
joining with the shipper in an earnest effort for its relaxation, It gave up only when the impediment was found
to be insurmountable.
The answer to the other contention is that the contract
regarded the "Allanwilde," a sailing ship, not some other
kind of ship or means. The Tornado, 108 U. S. 342;
The KronprinzessinCecilie, supra.
The bill of lading in No. 450 iseven more circamstantial.
It provided that "Full freight to destination, whether
.
intended to be prepaid or collect at destination, .
shall be deemed fully earned and due and payable to the
carrier at any stage before or after loading, of the service
hereunder, without deduction (if unpaid) or refund in
whole or in part (if paid), goods or vessel lost or not lost,
or if the voyage be broken up." And there is exemption

INT. PAPER CO. r. THE "GRACIE 1). CHAMBERS." 387
377.

Argument for Petitioner.

from liability "for any loss, damage, delay or default,
. by arrest or restraint of governments, princes,
rulers, or peoples;
The questions certified are therefore answered in the
.

affirmative.
So ordered.

INTERNATIONAL PAPER COMPANY v. THE
SCHOONER "GRACIE
D. CHAMBERS," &c.,
PAYNE, CLAIMANT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 479. Argued December 12, 13, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.
The bill of lading contained th3 provisions "Restraints of princes and
rulers excepted," "Freight for the said goods to be prepaid iju full
without discount, retained and irrevocably ship and/or cargo lost
or not lost." Sailing was delayed indefinitely by the Government's
refusal to clear sailing vessels destined for the war zone, which went
into effect after the shipment commenced and before the freight was
prepaid against delivery of the bill of lading. Held, that the carrier
was relieved of the (bty to transport the goods and need not refund
the prepaid freight. Allanwilde Transport Corp. v. Vacuum Oil
Co., ante, 377. P. 391.
253 Fed. Rep. 182, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion,
Mr. William C. Cannon, with whom Mr. R. L. von
Bernuth was on the brief, for petitioner:
Freight is not earned until the vessel "breaks ground"
or starts upon her voyage. The Tornado, 108 U. S. 342;
Curling v. Long, 1 Bos. & P. 634. A change of berth
pending completion of necessary preliminaries to sailing
is not a commencement of the voyage. Gilchrist Transp.

