WELLS, FARGO & CO. v. NEVADA.
Counsel for Parties.

WELLS, FARGO & COMPANY v. STATE
OF NEVADA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF NEVADA.
Argued November 14, 1918.-Decided December 16, 1918.

No. 40.

Under a Nevada law providing only for an ad valorem tax on property,
a state board valued the tangible and intangible personal property
used within the State by a foreign express company at so much
for each mile of its line employed there in local and in interstate
commerce; and an assessor in listin' the part within his county at
the valuation per mile so fixed inaccurately characterized the property as consisting of the right to carry on an express business. Accepting as conclusive that his action must be construed under and
controlled by the state statute and the action of the board, as
decided by the state court, held, that the tax was not on the privilege
ol engaging in interstate commerce, but on the property in the
county. P. 167.
In an action to enforce the tax, if the valuation was excessive and
burdensome to interstate commerce, 'the company, under Nevada
Rev. Laws, 1912, § 3664, was entitled to prove the facts and secure
a reduction, but in this case it failed to do so. P. 168.
A tax is not wanting in due process, even if the valuation is originally
made ex partq, if it is enforced only through a judicial proceeding
affording notice and opportunity for full hearing. Id.
38 Nevada, 505, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles W. Stockton, with whom Mr. Harry S.
Marx was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William C. Prentiss, with whom Mr. George B.
Thatcher, Attorney General of the State of NeVada, was
on the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTJCE

248 U. S.

VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action to enforce a tax levied in Humboldt
.County, Nevada, against the express company. Several
objections were interposed, some presenting local and
others federal questions, but all were overruled and payment of the tax directed. 38 Nevada, 505. This writ of
error was allowed prior to the Act of September 6, 1916,
c. 448, 39 Stat. 726.
The federal questions are all that we can consider, and
they are: Whether the tax was laid on the privilege or act
of engaging in interstate commerce, whether the tax
proceedings were without due process of law, and whether
they otherwise were such as to make the tax a burden on
interstate commerce.
The company is a Colorado corporation engaged in the
express business in this and other countries. One of its
lines extends through Humboldt and other counties in
Nevada, over the Southern Pacific Railroad, and is used
in both intrastate and interstate commerce, but principally the latter. The tax was for the year 1910.
As construed by, the state court, the statute I under
which the tax was imposed does not provide for a privilege
or franchise tax, but only for an ad valorem property tax.
Acting under the statute, a state board valued the company's personal property, tangible and intangible, used
in its express business within the State, at $300 per mile
of line; and it then became the duty of the assessor of
Humboldt County to enter or list on the assessment roll
at that valuation so much of the line as was in his county.
In making the entry he accurately gave the length of the
line in the county, the railroad over which the same was
operated and the valuation fixed by the state board, but,
Revised Laws, 1912, §§ 3621, 3622, 3624, 3797-3801, 3807.

WELLS, FARGO & CO. v. NEVADA.
165.

Opinion of the Court.

inaccurately described the property as consisting of the
right to carry on an express business there.
Looking only at that entry there is strong ground for
saying that the tax was laid on the privilege or act of
doing an express business which was principally interstate. On the other hand, the action of the state board,
on which the assessment concededly was predicated, indicates that what was taxed was the company's property
in Humboldt County. The difference is vital, for, .consistently with the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, the State could not tax the privilege or act of
engaging in interstate commerce, but could tax the
company's property within the State, although chiefly
employed in such commerce'. Adams Express Co. v.
Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 220; s. c. 166 U. S. 185, 218; Galveston,
Harrisburg & San Antonio ?y. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.
217, 225-227; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S.
450, 453.
The company insists that the State is concluded by the
entry on the assessment roll. But the state court, as
shown in its opinion, rejects that view and holds, in
effect, that the entry must be construed in the light of
the statute and the action of the state board, and that
when this is done it is apparent that thetax was not laid
on the privilege or act of engaging in interstate commerce,
but on the company's property within the county. We
perceive no4 ground for disturbing that ruling. In so far
as it turns on the authority of the state board and the
assessor under the statute and the relative effect to be
given to their acts it is not reviewable here, and in-so far
as it relates to what really was the subject of the tax we
think it was right. See Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota,
supra, p. 454. Evidently the company at one time took
this view of the tax, for in an amendment to its answer
we find an allegation that the state board "valued the
property used by this defendant at the rate or sum of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.,

$300 for every mile of railroad over which this defendant
transacted business, and apportioned said assessment or
tax to the various counties of the State in accordance
with the number of miles of such railroads, so situated
within said county, and that the tax herein sued for was
not otherwise levied or assessed."
A want of due process of law in the sense of the Fourteenth Amendment is asserted because the valuation by
the state board was made without notice to the company
or according it an opportunity to be heard. Assuming
that the premise is correct (as to which the record is not
entirely clear), we are unable to accept the conclusion.
In Nevada the mode of enforcing a tax such as this is by
a judicial proceeding wherein process issues and an opportunity is afforded for a full hearing. Only after there
is a judgment sustaining the tax is payment enforced.
Rev. Laws, 1912, §§ 3659-3665. This, as repeatedly
has been held, satisfies the requirements of Aue process
of law. Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701;
Wiriona & St. Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159 U. S. 526,
537; Gallup v. Schmidt, 183 U. S. 300, 307.
It also is asserted that the state board in valuing the
property acted on inaccurate data and applied erroneous
standards which resulted in a valuation -so excessive as
to make the tax a burden on interstate commerce. It is
true that some inaccurate data and some cofiputations
following erroneous standards were presented to the
board by a 'state officer in support of a suggestion that
the property be valued at $500 or more per mile of line.
But the suggestion was not adopted, and it is not shown
that the board's valuation was based on the data arp1
computations so presented. Besides, if the valuation was
excessive, the cbmpany was entitled in the present suit
to show the true value and to have the tax reduced accordingly. Rev. Laws, 1912, § 3664. An attempt at
such a showing was made, but the state court concluded

CAMPBELL ?. WADSWORTH.
Syllabus.

165.

therefrom that a valuation of $300 per mile, as fixed by
the board, was not excessive. It may be that the showing was not complete, but, even if so, it was the company's
showing and was all that was before the co'rt. After
examining it we think it discloses no ground for condemning the tax as a burden on interstate commerce.
Judgment affirmed.

CAMPBELL v. WADSWORTH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TH1E STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
Argued November 21, 1918.-Decided December 16, 1918.

No. 72.

The Seminole Agreement of October 7, 1899, 31 Stat. 250, provides
for enrollment by the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes of
"all children born to Seminole citizens," up to and including December 31, 1899, and of all Seminole citizens then living, and that
the rolls so made, when approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
shall c6nstitute the final rolls of Seminole citizens, upon which
allotment and distribution of lands, etc., of the Seminole Indians
shall be made, "and to no other persons." The next paragroph
prescribes that, if any member of the tribe die after December 31,
1899, the lands, etc., to which he would be entitled if living, "shall
descend to his heirs who are Seminole citizens." A father, enrolled
only as a Seminole, the roll referring to his wife and family as Creeks,
died after that date, leaving a wife and daughters, who were enrolled
only as Creeks, their roll describing him as an enrolled Seminole.
Both rolls were fifnal; and they, with other evidence, are here regarded as establishing a Creek custom assigning children of mixed
marriages the tribal status of their mother. Held, that the father's
share of Seminole lands, subsequently allotted, did not descend to
the mother or the daughters.
53 Oklahoma, 728, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

