OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

vessels has been the subject of maritime law which has
directed the conduct of "those who pursue commerce
and, put to sea." Their duties and qualifications have
been the subject of regulation by the recognized principles of admiralty law. Benedict's Admiralty, 4th ed.,
ยง 146. They are regulated by statutes enacted under
federal authority. See U. S. Comp. Stats. of 1916, vol. 12,
Index "Masters of Vessels."
If one State may declare such contracts void for one
reason, another may do likewise for another. Thus the
local law of a State may deprive one of relief in a case
brought in a court of admiralty of the United States upon
a maritime contract, and the uniformity of rules governing
such contracts may be destroyed by perhaps conflicting
rules of the States.
We think the Circuit Court of Appeals correctly held
that this contract was maritime in its nature and an action
in admiralty thereon for its breach could not be defeated
by the statute of California relied upon by the petitioner.
Affirmed.

FISHER v. RULE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 78. Argued November 22, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
To initiate a right under the homestead act a minor's application must
show that he is the head of a family; and a general assertion that he is
* such, by reason of having adopted a minor child, but without stating
the time, place or mode of adoption, or identifying the child, is insufficient for this purpose. P. 317.
When the Secretary of the Interior, after canceling a final homestead entry, has ordered a suspension of all action under the decision

FISHER v. RULE.
314.

Opinion of the Court.

pending a reconsideration of it, no adverse right may be initiated
under the homestead law either by settlement and improvement or
by filing a preliminary application, while the suspension remains in
force. Id.
To fasten a trust on a patentee of public land, the plaintiff must show
that the better right to the land is in himself; it is not enough to
show that the patentee ought not to have received the patent. Id.
232 Fed. Rep. 861, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Homer Guerry, with whom Mr. Allen G. Fisher,
Mr. William P. Rooney and Mr. John B. Barnes were
on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. Edwin D. Crites
and Mr. F. A. Crites were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a suit by Fisher to have Rule declared a trustee
for him of the title to certain land in Nebraska, for which
Rule holds a patent under the homestead law of the
United States. Fisher lost in the District Court and its
decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
232 Fed. Rep. 861.
The case presented by the record is as follows:
In 1904, when the land was public land, a son of Rule
applied for and secured a preliminary homestead entry
thereof at the local land office. Under the ruling then
and for many years prevailing in the Land Department he
had six months within which to establish residence on the
land. During the early part of that period he died intestate without establishing such residence. The father
was the only heir and as such, according to the ruling
then and theretofore prevailing in the Land Department,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

could acquire title under the son's entry without himself
residing on the land. Shortly after the son's death he took
possession under the entry, fenced the land, erected substantial buildings thereon, cultivated forty acres or more
and pastured live stock on the remainder, but resided
on an adjoining tract. In due course, after continuing
his cultivation and improvements for five years, he submitted final proof at the local land office showing what he
had done and made the payments required by law. In
that connection his right to a patent was contested by
one who, although making no claim to the land, insisted
that the entry was extinguished ipso facto when the son
died without establishing residence on the land, and that,
if the entry was not thus extinguished, the father forfeited his rights thereunder by failing to make the land
his own place of residence. The local officers held against
the contestant and with the father, and that decision was
affirmed by the Commissioner of the General Larld Office.
But when the matter came before the Secretar of the
Interior that officer, conceiving that, the settled rulings
of the Land Department before noticed were not well
grounded, sustained the insistence of the contestant,
reversed the decisions of the local officers and the Commissioner and directed that the entry be canceled. 42
L. D. 62, 64. The father sought to have the matter reconsidered and, while at first his efforts were unavailing,
a rehearing ultimately was granted. On the rehearing, of
which the contestant had timely notice, the Secretary
recalled his first decision, adhered to the -prior settled
rulings, dismissed the contest and directed that the entry
be reinstated. 43 L. D. 217. It was under that decision
that the patent was issued.
. On receiving the usual notice of the Secretary's
first
decision the local officers complied therewith by canceling
the entry on their" records. Fisher, who knew of the
entry and the contest, then presented an application to

FISHER v. RULE.
314.

Opinion of the Court.

enter the land as a homestead. The application, while
disclosing that he was a minor and unmarried, asserted
in a general way that he was the head of a family, and
therefore a qualified applicant, by reason of having
adopted a minor child.' The local officers called for a
further showing respecting the asserted adoption and
for the time being withheld action on the application.
Before a further showing was made the Secretary of the
Interior, who was being asked to reconsider his first decision, ordered a suspension of all action under that decision; 2 and of this Fisher was advised by the local officers.
Subsequently Fisher produced a court order purporting
to show his adoption of a younger brother eighteen days
after his homestead application was presented, Lat, by
reason of the Secretary's suspending order, no further action was had on the application until after the Secretary's
last decision, when the application was rejected. During
the continuance of the suspending order, and without the
consent of Rule, Fisher went on the land, erected improvements and attempted to establish a residence there.
In no admissible view of these facts can this suit be
sustained. Even if under a right construction of the
homestead law Rule was not entitled to the patentwhich we do not at all intimate-Fisher is not in a position to take advantage of the error. He cannot be heard
to complain on behalf of the United States; and he has
no such personal interest in the land as entitles him to
complain on his own account. He acquired no right
There Was no statement respecting the time, place or mode of
adoption or the identity of the ch'ld. In Nebraska adoption seems to
be controlled by statute, Kofka v. Rosicky, 41 Nebraska, 328, 342; and
the statute apparently provides that 'only adults may adopt. Rev.
Stats. 1913, ยง 1615.
2 A second suspending order was made by the Secretary at a time
when Rule was resorting to judicial proceedings in tie District of
Columbia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

by his homestead application. It never was allowed;
nor could it reasonably have been allowed. As originally
presented it did not sufficiently show that he was a qualified applicant, and his additional showing-whatever
else might be thought of it-came after the suspending
order had superseded the cancellation of the Rule entry
and become an obstacle to the initiation of any adverse
claim. Neither did he acquire any right by his attempted
settlement after that order was made. The order was no
less effective against that mode of initiating a claim than
against the other. Its purpose was to preserve the status
quo pending final action on the Rule entry. A settlement
in opposition to such an order is nothing short of a trespass and confers no right under the public land laws.
Lyle v. Patterson,228 U. S. 211, 216.
It is a familiar rule that to succeed in such a suit the
plaintiff "must show a better right to the land than the
patentee, such as in law should have been respected by the
officers of the Land Department, and being respected,
would have given him the patent. It is not sufficient to
show that the patentee ought not to have received the
patent." Sparks v. Pierce, 115 U. S. 408, 413; Smelting
Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 647; Bohall v. Dilla, 114 U. S.
47, 50; Lee v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48, 50; Duluth & Iron
Range R. R. Co. v. Roy, 173 U. S. 587, 590; Johnson v.
Riddle, 240 U. S. 467, 481; Anicker v. Gunsburg, 246 U. S.
110, 117.
Decree affirmed.

