CAMPBELL ?. WADSWORTH.
Syllabus.

165.

therefrom that a valuation of $300 per mile, as fixed by
the board, was not excessive. It may be that the showing was not complete, but, even if so, it was the company's
showing and was all that was before the co'rt. After
examining it we think it discloses no ground for condemning the tax as a burden on interstate commerce.
Judgment affirmed.

CAMPBELL v. WADSWORTH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TH1E STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
Argued November 21, 1918.-Decided December 16, 1918.

No. 72.

The Seminole Agreement of October 7, 1899, 31 Stat. 250, provides
for enrollment by the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes of
"all children born to Seminole citizens," up to and including December 31, 1899, and of all Seminole citizens then living, and that
the rolls so made, when approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
shall c6nstitute the final rolls of Seminole citizens, upon which
allotment and distribution of lands, etc., of the Seminole Indians
shall be made, "and to no other persons." The next paragroph
prescribes that, if any member of the tribe die after December 31,
1899, the lands, etc., to which he would be entitled if living, "shall
descend to his heirs who are Seminole citizens." A father, enrolled
only as a Seminole, the roll referring to his wife and family as Creeks,
died after that date, leaving a wife and daughters, who were enrolled
only as Creeks, their roll describing him as an enrolled Seminole.
Both rolls were fifnal; and they, with other evidence, are here regarded as establishing a Creek custom assigning children of mixed
marriages the tribal status of their mother. Held, that the father's
share of Seminole lands, subsequently allotted, did not descend to
the mother or the daughters.
53 Oklahoma, 728, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Mr. C.Dale Wolfe, for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. John S. Severson
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error brought suit to quiet title to
the lands in controversy in this case, the facts involved
being agreed upon as follows:
Louis Cox, whose name appears in the final rolls of the
Seminole Tribe of Indians, died intestate, on July 4, 1901,
and left surviving him the defendants in error, Annie Cox,
his widow, now Annie Wadsworth, and two daughters,
Maggie Cox, now Maggie Beamore, and Nancy Cox, now
Nancy Alexander. These three women were all duly
enrolled on the Creek tribal roll in 1890, and in July, 1901,
after the death of Cox, upon an application made-in May,
1901, they were enrolled as citizens of the Creek Nation
by the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes, but
neither of the three appears on the Seminole rolls. Certified copies of the "final" Seminole roll bearing the name
of Louis Cox and of the Creek roll bearing the names of
his wife and daughters are in the record. On the former
is the notation "Wife'and family Creeks" and in the
latter Louis Cox is described as an enrolled Seminole.
No allotment of land had been made to Cox a.t the time
of his death, but subsequently the land in controversy was
allotted by the United States as his distributive share of
the Seminole tribal lands.
The plaintiff in error claims title'through one'Lucy
Wildcat, the only surviving relative of Cox whose name
appears on the appr6ved Seminole roll. The widow and
daughters claim as heirs of Louis Cox.
The decision of the case depends upon 'the application
to the facts thus stated of the second paragraph of the

CAMPBELL v. WADSWORTH.
169.

Opinion of the Court.

agreement between the Government of the United States
and the Seminole Tribe of Indians, dated October 7, 1899,
and ratified by Act of Congress June 2, 1900, c. 610,
31 Stat. 250, the essential parts of which are as follows:
"First. That the Commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes, in, making the rolls of Seminole citizens, pursuant
to the Act of Congress approved June twenty-eighth,
eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, shall place on said
rolls the names of all children born to Seminole citizens
up to and including the thirty-first day of December,
eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, and the names of all
Seminole citizens then living: and the rolls so made, when
approved by the Secretary of the Interior, as provided by
said Act of Congress,, shall constitute the final rolls of
Seminole citizens, upon which allotment of lands and
distribution of money and other property belonging to the
Seminole Indians shall be made, and to no other persons.
"Second. If any member of the Seminole tribe of
Indians shall die after the thirty-first day of December,
eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, the lands, money,
and other.property to which he would be entitled if living,
shall descend to his heirs who are Seminole citizens, according to the laws of descent and distribution of the State of
Arkarsas, and be allotted and distributed to them accordingly: Provided, That in all cases where such property
would descend to the parents under said laws the same
shall first go to the mother instead of the father, and then
to tlie brothers and sisters, and their heirs, instead of the
father."
Plainly the facts agreed upon bring the case within the
scope of the second paragraph thus quoted, and whether
Lucy Wildcat, the only surviving Seminole relative of
the deceased, or the wife and daughters of Cox, inIferited
the land in controversy depends 'upon the' effect to be
given to the phrase, "shall descend to his heirs who are
Seminole citizens."

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Oklahoma s~emingly had little
difficulty in concldding that this expression excluded
"heirs" who were not Seminoles, and it adopted unanimously as.its own the opinion by the Commission which
found in favor of the plaintiff in error, containing the
following: [154 Pac. Rep. 60, 61].
"The act under consideration say's that such property
'shall descend to his heirs who are Seminole citizens.'
Who are Seminole citizens as here designated? Section 1
of the act set out aboye provides for the enro'llment of the
Seminole citizens' and says that in making out this roll
the names of all of the citizens living on the 31st day of
December, 1899, and all the children born to Seminole
citizens up to that. date, shall constitute the final rolls of
Seminole citizens. In section 21 of the Original Curtis
Act (Act Cong. June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30 Stat. 502), which
provided for the enrollment of the citizens of the Five
Civilized Tribes, which included the Seminole' Nation,
there is a provision which reads as follows:
"'The rolls so made, when approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, shall be final, and the persons whose names
are found thereon, with their descendants thereafter born
to them, with such persons as may intermarry according
to tribal laws, shall alone constitute the several tribes
which they represent.'
"From the reading of these two sections last above set
out it plainly appears that neither the widow of the
decedent Louis Cox, nor their two children, can be denominated 'Seminole citizens.' The widow undoubtedly
is not so included because she is of the Creek blood and a
citizen of that tribe, arid the two children are excluded
because fhey were born before December 31, 1899, ,and
were not enrolled as Seminole citizens, and thus do not
come within the provisions defining Seminole citizens."
But upon a rehearing of the case the court "withdrew"
-its former opinion and held that Congress intended that

CAMPBELL r. WADS\VORTH.
169.

Opinion of the Court.

the words "Seminole citizens in the second paragraph of
the act should have a more elastic meaning than was in
terms given to them in the first paragraph and, by interpreting them so as to include the wife and daughters of the
deceased, it found the title to the lands to be in the latter
subject to the dower estate of the former. [53 Oklahoma,
728].
This judgment, being within the provisions of § 7 of the
Act approved September 6, 1916, amending § 237 of the
Judicial Code (39 Stat. 726), is properly before us for
review on writ of error.
The first paragraph of the agreement, which we have
quoted, prescribes the persons whose names shall go upon
the Seminole roll and it declares that the rolls so made,
when approved by the Secretary of the Interior, "shall
constitute the final rolls" of" Seminole citizens" and that
to these "and to no other persons" shall allotment of
property be made. This definition of" Seminole citizens"
is followed in the second paragraph with the provision that
the property of an intestate, such as we have in this case,
shall descend to his heirs who are "Seminole citizens."
There is nothing in the act to indicate an intention on
the part of Congress or of the tribe that the words,
"Seminole citizens," as used in the second, shall have any
other meaning than that specifically given to them in the
first paragraph, but, on the contrary, both the natural
and the legal inference from their being used in such
juxtaposition is that the same meaning shall be given them
and that if a different or more comprehensive meaning
had been intended it would have been expressed.
But th'ere are other cogent reasons why courts should
not modify these final rolls by liberal interpretation of this
statutory provision.
The rolls of the Seminole Tribe were comtiled by the
Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes, a quasi-judicial
tribunal, to which large powers were given by statute for

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

that specific purpose, and the action of the Connission,
when approved by the Secretary of the Interior, made.
"final" by the statute, so conclusively settles all quostions within its jurisdiction as to membership in the tribe,
and as to the rights of the Indians to tribal property,
that they are subject to attack, as the judgments of ourts
are, only for fraud and mistake--of which there is no
suggestion in this record. United States v. Wildcat, 244
U. S. 111.
The principal reason given by the Oklahoma Supreme
Court for its second conclusion is that, the daughters of
Cox being children born to a Seminole citizen prior to the
31st day of December, 1899, were entitled to enrollment
as Seminole Indians under the first paragraph of the
agreement and if so enrolled would be strictly within the
terms of the act and would inherit the land.
We think it very clear that this reason is not sound.
The Seminole Tribe was derived from the Creek, and
the tribal customs and traditions of the two had much in
common. While this record does not show specifically
what the tribal custom of the Seminoles was with respect
to tribal recognition of children born of mixed marriages,
it does show definitely that by the Creek Indians, and it is
with enrolled Creek Indians tlat we are dealing, the
children of mixed marriages were treated and enrolled as
members of the tribe of their mother, for the names of the
daughters of Cox are found on the tribal roll of the Creek
Indians of 190, when they were very young children, and
again in 1901, when Maggie was twenty years of age and
Nancy was seventeen, apparently on their own application, they and their mother were placed by the Commission on the final roll of the Creek Tribe. This Creek roll
also shows that the father of the children, Louis Cox, was a
Seminole, and the Seminole roll on which Cox's name
appears bears the notation, "Wife and family Creeks."
Thus it is plain that it was not through any mistake or

CAMPBELL v. WADSWORTH.
169.

Opinion of the Court.

oversight that the children of Cox were omitted by the
Commission from the Seminole roll and were pla,3ed upon
the Creek roll, but that this was done for the sufficient
reason that tribal custom and tradition required their
enrollment as Creeks, and the law nowhere provided for
their enrollment in more than one tribd. The final rolls,
alike of the Seminoles and of -the Creeks, thus made up by
the Commission, were placed by the act of Congress, as
we have seen, beyond amendment by the courts on such a
record as we have here, and it is impossible for us to conclude that the daughters of Cox were entitled to enrollment as members of the -Seminole Tribe, or that having
been enrolled as Creeks they may now be given the rights
of enrolled "Seminole citizen."
The Supreme Court also says that only "the most
powerful and impelling reasons" could induce it to hold
that it was the intention of the Indians to exclude their.
own children from participation in the distribution of
their property after death.
While it is true that it seems unnatural for the Indians
to have preferred more distant relatives to their own
children in providing for the descent and distribution of
their property, yet from the terms of the act before us,
and also from the provisions of the Supplemental Creek
Agreement that "only citizens of the Creek Nation; male
and female, and their Creek descendants shall inherit
lands of the Creek Nation" (32 Stat. 500), it is clear that
with the Indians the interests of the tribe were paramount
to those of the family and it was with a knowledge of the
mode of life of their primitive people, better and more
intimate than the courts can now command, that they
determined that this paramount purpose would best be
served by giving to children born of mixed marriages the
tribal status. of their mother.
As we have said, this record does not show affirmativelythat the Seminoles had a custom similar to this one of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

the Creeks, but such is believed to have been the fact.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma, in its first opinion, said
[154 Pac. Rep, 60,611:
"The defendants have presented the additional proposition here that, according to the custom of the Seminole
Nation, the blood of the mother determined the tribe
to which the offspring belonged, and the fact that the
children, plaintiffs here, were not enrolled as Seminole
citizens was not due to any neglect of the parents of the
said children or of the Commission to have said children
enrolled on The Seminole roll, but the law and the custom
of the Seminole Tribe were that the children were of the
blood of the mother and members of that tribe to which
the mother belonged. While we do not find it necessary
to pass upon this proposition, and will leave it, as far
as this opinion is concerned, an open question, yet we
will say that as far as our investigation has led us, we
are of the opinion that this last proposition is a correct
statement of the law so far as it applies to the facts as
presented in the case at bar."
In Hughes Land Co. v. Bailey, 30 Oklahoma, 194, the
same court in discussing the rights of two daughters born
of the marriage of a Creek man to a Seminole woman,
said (p. 196): "By virtue of the citizenship of their mother
they [the daughters] were enrolled as citizens of the
Seminole Nation." And it may be noted that this custom
prevails with the Seminole Indians of Florida, from whom
those of Oklahoma are derived. (Annual Report, Bureau
of American Ethnology, 1883-4, p. 508.) But the most
persuasive evidence of this custom is, that the Federal
Commissioners with, as we have seen, all of the facts
as, to parentage before them and considered, enrolled
the daughters of Cox in the Creek Tribe of their mother
and not in the Seminole Tribe of their father. The Commissioners in making up the rolls which were to be "final"
were given authority to consult tribal records and rolls

CAMPBELL v. WADSWORTH.
169.

177

Opinion of the Court.

and "to adopt any other means by them deemed necessary to enable them to make such rolls," (30 Stat. 495,
§ 21) and in their conclusion, arrived at after many years
of experience and painstaking investigation, may well
be found a cogent and impelling reason for accepting the
terms of the statutory agreement as they are plainly
written and for refusing to enlarge them by interpretation.
On its surface this case is typical of those hard cases
which proverbially make bad law, but in reality, since
the widow and children of Cox, as enrolled Creeks, were
entitled each to an allotment in the Creek lands and
property (30 Stat. 495, § 21; 31 Stat. 861, §§ 3, 28; and
32 Stat. 500, §§ 7, 8 and 9), their being excluded from an
inheritance which they did not attempt to claim for a
dozen years after the death of Cox does not present a
degree of hardship calling for a strained interpretation
of a plain statutory provision limiting inheritances to
enrolled Seminole. citizens, so that it may include not
only persons not so enrolled, but persons who were actually
enrolled as Creek citizens.
The conclusion we are announcing is consonant with
prior holdings of this court, under similar statutes. Thus,
in Washington v. Miller, 235 U. S. 422, under the proviso
in the Supplemental Creek Agreement of June 30, 1902,
32 Stat. 500, that "'only citizens of the Creek Nation,
male and female, . . . shall inherit lands, of the
Creek Nation," a judgment was affirmed, holding the
grantee of a Creek mother entitled, as against the claims
of a Seminole father, to lands inherited from the child
of their marriage enrolled as a Creek, when, if the fatherhad been an enrolled Creek, he and the mother would
have shared the land equally.
And in McDougal v. McKay, 237 U. S. 372, again under
the' Supplemental Creek Agreement, it was decided that
the Creek father of a child born of his marriage with a
non-Creek mother inherited the entire estate of the child,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

which died intestate, although his wife would have taken
equally with him had she been an enrolled Creek.
All statutes of descent and distribution are arbitrary
expressions of the purpose of the law-making power; and
that the provisions of such a statute do not happen to
meet the notions of justice of a court is not sufficient
reason for indulging in an interpretation which modifies
their plain and unambiguous terms. Especially is this
true of these Indian statutes which are a progressive
development, embodying concessions to tribal custom'
and tradition necessary to be made in order to accomplish
a practical, though perhaps not an ideal, dissolution of
the tribal relation and distribution of the tribal property.
The rights of this Creek mother cannot rise higher
than those of her daughters.
It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma must be reversed and the case remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

CLEVELAND-CLIFFS IRON COMPANY ET AL. v.
ARCTIC IRON COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 75.

Argued November 22, 1918.-Decided December 23, 1918.

A certificate from the Oircuit Court of Appeals consisting of recitals
of facts interblended with questions of law, or of recitals which fail
in themselves to distinguish between . ultimate and merely evidenial
facts, affords no basis under the statute (Jud. Code, § 239) either
for answerihg the questions propounded or for exercising the discretionary power to call up the whole re~ord, and must be dismissed.
Certificate dismissed.

