OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

to show that upon the facts here disclosed the stipulation
between the parties as to notice in writing within ten days
of any claim for damages was valid. And we also think
those opinions make it clear that the circumstances relied
upon by the shipper are inadequate to show a waiver
by the carrier of written notice as required by the contract.
The trial court erred in giving to the jury the instruction
quoted above; and it should have granted the carrier's
request for a directed verdict.
The judgment of the court' is reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.

.COHN v. MALONE, TRUSTEE OF COHN,
BANKRUPT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 96.

Argued December 18, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The cash surrender value of a life insurance policy which is payable
to the executors, administrators or assigns of the insured, or payable
to specified persons with a right in the insured to change the beneficiaries, is assets subject to distribution under the Bankruptcy Act.
Cohen v. Samuels, 245 U. S. 50.
Section 2498 of the Georgia Code, 1910, providing that an insured may
assign .his life insurance by directing payment to his personal representative, or to his widow, or to his children, or to his assignee,
and that no other person can defeat such direction when assented to

,JOHN v. MALONE.
450.

Opinion of the Court.

by the insurer, does not operate to withdraw the cash surrender
value from his estate in bankruptcy when the assignment was made
to his wife expressly subject to his right'to change beneficiaries or
surrender the policy at any time.
236 Fed. Rep. 882, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. R. Pottle, for petitioner, submitted. Mr. I. J.
Hofmayer and Mr. J. W. Kieve were also on the brief.
Mr. Sam S. Bennet, with whom Mr. John D. Pope, Mr.
H. A. Peacock and Mr. Charles Akerman were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In 1902 and 1905 the bankrupt took out two policies on
his life in the Penn. Mutual Life Insurance Company,
loss under one payable to his "executors, administrators
or assigns," under the other to his sister and brother with
full power in the assured "while this policy is in force and
not previously assigned, to change the present beneficiary
or beneficiaries." By formal written instruments dated
July 15, 1910, he assigned both policies to his wife "if
she outlives me, otherwise to my estate, with full power to
the insured to change the beneficiary or surrender this
policy to said company at any time, this to be done by
instrument in writing under his hand and seal to be recorded at the home office of the company."
While both policies were in the bankrupt's possession,
the trustee demanded them in order that their cash surrender value might be secured and distributed under the
Bankruptcy Act. The bankrupt defended upon two
grounds: First, that the cash surrender value was not
property which could have been transferred by him prior

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

to bankruptcy; and second, that the assignment to his
wife could not be defeated by the trustee because protected by ยง 2498, Georgia Code, 1910, which provides"The assured may direct the money to be paid to his
personal representative, or to his widow, or to his children,
or to his assignee; and upon such direction given, and assented to by the insurer, no other person can defeat
the same. But the assignment is good without such
assent."
The Circuit Court of Appeals held both grounds of defense bad. 236 Fed. Rep. 882. As to the first, its ruling
accords with the doctrine recently announced in Cohen v.
Samuels, 245 U. S. 50. In respect of the second that
court declared:
"Nothing in the terms of the statute, especially when
they are considered in the light of the circumstances of
its enactment, indicates that it had any other purpose or
effect than to deny to anyone other than the assured himself the power to defeat a direction by him to pay to his
personal representative, or to his widow, or to his children,
or to his assignee, the money payable in a life policy
issued to him. The provision does not purport to make
every such direction by the assured irrevocable by him,
or to invalidate a stipulation in a life policy giving the
assured the right to change the beneficiary at any time
during the continuance of the policy. The statute puts
a direction by the assured to pay to his widow on the same
footing as one to pay to his assignee. If a policy is assigned
as security for a debt which the assured pays during his
life, certainly the statute is not to be given the effect of
putting it out of the power of the assured to change the
beneficiary upon the reassignment of the policy to him
by the satisfied creditor. Nothing in its terms justifies
giving it a different operation or effect in the case of a
direction to pay to thewidow. We are not of opinion that
the provision quoted had the effect of conferring on the

CAVANAUGH v. LOONEY.
450.

Counsel for Appellants.

bankrupt's wife, as the result of her having been named
as the beneficiary, a vested arid indefeasible interest in
policies by the terms of which the beneficiaries could be
changed by the bankrupt at any time." And we approve
its conclusion.
Petitioner has not complained here of the action below
concerning a third policy, issued by the New York Life
Insurance Company.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

CAVANAUGH ET AL. v. LOONEY, ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF THE STATE OF TEXAS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 107.

Argued December 19, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The jurisdiction of the federal courts to enjoin the execution of a state

law upon the ground of unconstitutionality should be exercised only
in clear cases and where intervention is essential to protect rights

effectually against injuries otherwise irremediable. P. 456.
Appellants sought to enjoin condemnation proceedings under a Texas
act, alleging it unconstitutional and that the filing of the petition
would cause them irreparable damage by impounding their land,
clouding the title and preventing sale pending the proceeding. Held,
properly refused, since the apprehension of irreparable loss appeared
fanciful and all objections against the act could be raised in the condemnation proceedings. Id.
Affirmed.
THE

case is Stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph Manson McCormick, with whom Mr.
Francis Marion Etheridge was on the brief, for appellants.

