LUCKENBACH v. McCAHAN SUGAR CO.
132.

Syllabus.

fendant). Language in the findings of fact concerning
damages lends possibly some warrant for that contention;
but the discussion of the subject in the opinion makes it
clear that the rule enunciated in United States v. Behan,
110 U. S. 338, which claimant invokes, was adopted and
correctly applied by the court.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is, therefore,
Affirmed.
(MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.)

LUCKENBACH ET AL. v. W. J. McCAHAN SUGAR
REFINING COMPANY AND THE INSULAR LINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Argued November 18, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

Where the bills of lading stipulated that the carrier should have the
benefit of any insurance that might be effected by the shipper, but
the shipper's policies provided that the insurers should not be liable
for merchandise shipped under bills containing such stipulations or
in the possession of any carrier who might be liable for its loss or
damage, held, that an arrangement between the insurers and the
shipper, whereby the former loaned to the latter the amount of a
loss caused by the carrier's negligence, to be repaid only in so far as
the shipper recovered from the carrier, otherwise to operate in effect
as absolute payment under the policies, and whereby, as security,
the shipper pledged such prospective recovery and the bills of lading
and agreed to prosecute suit against the carrier at the expense and
under the exclusive direction and control of the insurers,-was a lawful arrangement; that the loan was not a payment of the insurance
and the caricr was not entitled to the benefit of it; and that a libel

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioners.

248 U. S.

brought in the shipper's name, for the benefit of the insurers, pur.
suant to the agreement, could be maintained against the carrier
and the ship. P. 148.
Liability for unseaworthiness, resting on the personal contract of the
shipowner, is not limited by Rev. Stats., § 4283, or the Act of June 26,
1884. P. 149.
A time charter characterizing the vessel as "tight, staunch, [and]
strong," on delivery, and binding the owners to "maintain her in
a thoroughly efficient state in hull and' machinery, for,-and during
the service," imports a warranty, without limitation, of seaworthiness, not merely at delivery, but at the commencement of every
voyage. P. 150.
A time charter, like a charter for a single voyage, -is not a demise of
the ship, and leaves the chaurterer withoit control over her maintenance and repair, though liable without limitation to shippers for
losses due to unseaworthiness -discbverable by the exercise of due
diligence on the part of the owners. Id.
A charter party was signed by but one of the owners, but the rest,
being impleaded with him, admitted that he acted for all, and the
liability of all, if liability existed, was not controverted. Held, that
a decree for damages should run against all., P. 151.
235 Fed. Rep. 388, modified and affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr.. Roscoe H. Ilupper, with whom Mr. Peter S. Carter
and Mr. Charles C. Burlingham were on the brief, for
petitioners:
In this case (unlike Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Burr, 130
Fed. Rep. 847, and Bradley v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co.,
153 Fed. Rep. 350), we have complete evidence of the
intentions of the underwriters when the moneys were
advanced. The effect is to make the payments unconditional payments of insurance.
It may be that the cargo owners' acceptance of the bill
of lading broke the warranty, and that the insurance
companies could have refused to pay; but it is clear that
any. breach was waived and was always intended to be
waived. This waiver cannot convert into something other

LUCKENBACtL v. McCAHAN SUGAR CO.
139.

Argument for Petitioners.

than insurance the money which the cargo owners received in return for their insurance premiums. So far
as the carrier is concerned, there need have been no insurance policies at all, and it matters not in what form
or under what arrangement the money is paid the cargo
owner, so long as it is in fact a payment to him for his
own benefit.
The only conclusion to be reached on the whole evidence is that there was an unconditional payment of
insurance. This case is distinguished from Inman v.
South Carolina ly. Co., 129 U. S. 128. The insurance
companies' right to demand repayment of the "loan" is
merely their right of subrogation parading in disguise.
The value of the two rights is the same: the amount received from the carrier. They depend upon the same condition: liability of the carrier. The only distinction is
in name.
Since the insurance companies made their "loan" agreements with the cargo owners after they knew the latter
were bound by contract to give the carrier the benefit of
insurance, their rights are subordinate to those of the
carrier, by analogy with the rule in equity that a second
assignee taking with notice of the rights of a prior assignee
is postponed. See Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, 3d
ed., §§ 713, 715. The situation is also similar to that
presented by a prior equity, uniformly held to be a burden
on the legal estate. Id., § 730; Great Lakes & St. L. T.
Co. v. Scranton Coal Co., 239 Fed. Rep. 603, 609.
The authorities hold that the so-called "loans" are
payments of insurance. Our contentions are supported
by Boo's v. Philadelphia, Wilmington & Baltimore R. R.
Co., 199 Pa. St. 378; Lancaster Mills v. Merchants Cotton
Press Co., 89 Tennessee, 1; Deming & Co. v. Merchants
Cotton Press Co., 90 Tennessee, 310.
The Limited Liability Statute applies to every case of
liability on account of the vessel where the owner is free

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioners.

248 U. S.

from privity or knowledge. There is no principle of construction to justify the exclusion of specifi cases falling
within the language of the statute, which has always been
liberally construed. That the statute'contemplated contracts is made clear by the reference to property, goods
and merchandise shipped or put 'on board the vessel, and
by the reference in § 4286, Rev. Stats., to the chartering
of a vessel. When the Limited Liability Act was passed
in 1851, the transportation of goods was always pursuant
to contract, just as now, either by bill of lading or charterparty, to which the warranties of seaworthiness attached.
Shij)s do not move and no service is performed with or
by means of ships except by virtue of a contract or an
agreement on the part of the shipowner, and therefore the
personal contract doctrine could be applied to prevent limitation of liability in every case, as to carriage of passengers and cargo.
This case is not similar to those where limitation of
liability has been denied because of a "personal contract."
Great Lakes Towing Co. v. Mills Transportation Co., 155
Fed. Rep. 11; The Loyal, 204 Fed. Rep. 930; The Amos D.
Carver, 35 Fed. Rep. 665, and Richardson v. Harmon, 222
U. S. 96, 106, illustrate the meaning of "personal contract," and show that a personal contract is one to be
performed by the owner entirely irrespective of the vessel.
Benner Line v. Pendleton, 217 Fed. Rep. 497; 246 U. S.
353, involved a voyage charter-party containing a provision that the vessel should be "tight, staunch, strong,
and. in every way fitted" for the voyage, and the loss was
found to have resulted from unseaworthiness existing
when the schooner began the voyage. In this case the
seaworthiness of the Julia Luckenbach when delivered
under the time charter cannot be questioned. We cannot
believe that the right to limitation depends on the accident of who signs the, charter; it depends on the nature of
the contract. Limitation has been granted notwithstand-

LUCKENBACH v. McCAHAN SUGAR CO.
139.

Argument for The Insular Line.

ing contracts which were as much p.c'sonal contracts as
the charter-party in the case at bar. See The Republic
57 Fed. Rep. 240, affd. 61 Fed. Rep. 109; LaBourgogne,
144 Fed. Rep. 781, affd,. 210 U. S. 95; Tfih Jane Grey, 99
Fed. Rep. 582, 585.
Mr. Lawrence Kneeland for the W. J. McCahan Sugar
Refining Co., respondent.
Mr. J. ParkerKirlin, with whom Mr. Mark W. Maclay,
Jr., was on the brief, for the Insular Line, respondent:
The provision in the contract of carriage, that the carrier
was to receive the benefit of "any insurance, is valid, and
prevents either the owner or insurer from maintaining an
action against the carrier upon any terms inconsistent
therewith. Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Erie & Western
TranspiortationCo., 117 U. S. 312, 325.
If the warranties had any effect at all, it was to avoid
the policies when the libelant accepted the bill of lading
with the provision giving the carrier the benefit of insurance. Carstairsv. Mechanics Insurance Co., 18 Fed.
Rep. 473; Inman v. South Carolina Ry. Co., 129 U. S.
128. Payment of the loss with full knowledge of the facts
was a waiver. The transaction was intended, and operated, as a final settlement with the insured.
The so-called loan receipts do not evidence any loan
justly so described, but merely secure to the insurers their
ordinary rights of subrogation upon payment. In equity
subrogation accrues to the insurer without any express
stipulation, and he may assert it in his own name.
By making the advance and entering into the agreement
the insurer adjusted and paid the loss as between him
and the assured, and the whole transaction was at an end.
It is in this respect that the case at bar differs from Inman
v. South Carolina Ry. Co., 129 U. S 128. The insurer's
right of subrogation is limited by the benefit 'of insurance

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

*clause in the bill of lading. Wager v. Providence Insurance
Co., 150 U. S. 99, 108.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The W. J. McCahan Sugar Refining Company shipped
a cargo of sugar from Porto Rico to Philadelphia by the
Julia Luckenbach, which was under charter to the Insular Line; and the cargo suffered severe damage. In
the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, a libel seeking damages was filed
in the name of the shipper in personam against the Insular Line and in rem against the steamer. It alleged
that the damages resulted from unseaworthiness of the
hull, existing at the commencement of the voyage. The
petitioners, owners of the ship, were impleaded. The bills
of lading sued on contained a clause relieving the carrier
from liability for damages arising from "any latent deor by unseaworthiness of the ship,
fect in hull, ....
even existing at time of shipment, or sailing on the voyage,
but not discoverable by the exercise of due diligence by
the ship owner or manager; .
The libel alleged that the unseaworthiness would have
been discovered, had due diligence been exercised. The
District Court so found and held that the libelant was
entitled to recover. The damages were agreed to be
$87,526.65, with interest; and the value of the ship and
pending freight was found or agreed to be $66,600. The
owners duly moved for limitation of liability. The District Court found that the damages sustained were occasioned without the privity or knowledge of the owners;
held that they were entitled-to limit their liability, both
as against the shipper and as against the charterer, who
claimed indemnity; and ordered that the owners should
pay the shipper's claim to the extent of the value of the

LUCKENBACH v. McCAHAN SUGAR CO.
139.

Opinion of the Court.

ship and pending freight; and that the balance should be
paid by the Insular Line. 235 Fed. Rep. 388. Both the
owners and the Insular Line appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. That court modified the decree, so as
to award that payment of the full amount be made to the
shipper primarily by the steamer and the owners; and
that the charterer should be called upon to make payment
only of the deficiency, if any. 235 Fed. Rep. 388. The
case comes here on writ of certiorari granted on the
petition of the owners. 242 U. S. 638.
It is urged, on three grounds, that the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed and that
the District Court should be directed, either to dismiss the
libel or to limit the owners' liability to the value of the
ship and pending freight.
Firsit. The owners contend that both lower courts
erred in holding that the steamer was unseaworthy at the
commencement of her voyage and that due diligence to
make her seaworthy had not been exercised. The issue
involved is one of fact; and no reason appears why the
general rule should not apply, that concurrent decisions
of the two lower courts on an issue of fact will be accepted
by this court unless -shown to be clearly erroneous. The
Wildcrofi, 201 U. S. 378, 387; The Carib Prince, 170 U. S.
655, 658.
Second. The owners (and also the charterer) contend
that the libel should be dismissed, because the shipper
had already been compensated for the loss by insurance
which it effected; and that the carrier is entitled to the
full benefit of this insurance.
The shipper had effected full insurance. The bills of
lading sued on contain the following clause:
"In case of any loss, detriment or damage done to or
sustained by said goods or any part thereof for which the,
carrier shall be liable to the shipper, owner or consignee,
the carrier shall to the extent of such liability have the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

full benefit of any insurance that may have been effected
upon or on account of said goods?'
Shch a clause is valid, because the carrier might himself hiave insured against the loss, even though occasioned
by his own negligence; and if a shipper under a bill of
lading containing this provision effects insurance and is
pald the full amount of his loss, neither he nor the insurer
can recover against the carrier. Phoenix Insurance Co.
v. Erie & Western Transportation Co., 117 U. S. 312;
Wager v. Proidence Insurance Co., 150 U. S. 99. in the
case a bar, the shipper has received from the insurance
companies an amount equal to the loss; but it is contended that the money was received as a loan or conditional-payment merely, and that, therefore, the carrier
is not relieved from liability. The essential facts are
these:
The policies under which the shipper was insured contained the following, or a similar, provision:
"Warranted by the assured free from any liability for
merchandise in the possession of any carrier or other
bailee, who may be liable for any loss or damage thereto;
and for merchandise shipped under a bill of lading containing a stipulation that the carrier may have the benefit
of any insurance thereon."
The situation was, therefore, this: The carrier (including in this term the charterer, the ship, and the owners)
would, in no event, be liable to the shipper for the damages occasioned by unseaworthiness, unless guilty of
negligence. The insurer would, in no event, be liable to
the shipper, if the carrier was liable. In case the insurer
should refuse "to pay until the shipper had established
that recovery against the carrier was not possible-prompt settlement for loss (which is essential to actual
indemnity and demafided in the interest of commerce)
would be defeated. If, on the other, hand, the insurers
should settle the loss, before the question of the carrier'.

LUCKENBACH v. McCAHAN SUGAR CO.
139.

Opinion of the Court.

liability for loss had'been determined, the insurer would
lose the benefit of all claims against the carrier; to which
it would be subrogated in the absence of a provision to
the contrary in the bill -of lading, The "Potomac," 105
U. S. 630, 634; and the carrier would be freed from liability
to any one. In order that the shipper should not be
deprived of the use of money which it was entitled to
receive promptly after the loss, either from the carrier
or from the insurers, and that the insurer should not lose
the right of subrogation, agreements in the following (or
similar) form were entered into between the insurers and
the shipper:
"New York, Aug. 15, 1912.
"Received from the Federal Insurance Company,
Twenty-three hundred four and 16/100 dollars, as a loan
and repayable only to the extent of any net recovery we
may make from any carrier, bailee or others on account
of loss to our property (described below) due to damage
on S/S Julia Luckenbach from Porto Rico/Philadelphia,
on or about
,190-, or from any insurance effected by any carrier, bailee or others on said property, and as security for such repayment we hereby pledge
to the said Federal Insurance Company, the said recovery
and deliver to them duly endorsed the bills of lading for
said property and we agree to enter and prosecute suit
against said railroad, carrier, bailee, or others on said
claim with all due diligence at the expense and under the
exclusive direction and control of the said Federal Insurance Company.
The W. J. McCahan Sugar Refining Co.,
$2,304.16
R. S. Pomeroy, Treasurer.
"Description of property:--Sugar."
Upon delivery of this and similar agreements, the shipper received from the insurance companies, promptly
after the adjustment of the loss, amounts aggregating

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

the loss; and this libel was filed in the name of the shipper,
but for the sole benefit of the insurers, through their proctors and counsel, and wholly at their expense. If, and to
the extent (less expenses) that, recovery is had, the insurers will receive payment or be reimbursed for their
so-called loans to the shipper. If nothing is recovered
from the carrier, the shipper will retain the money received
by it without being under obligation to make any repayment of the amounts advanced. In other words, if there
is no recovery here, the amounts advanced will onerate
as absolute payment under the policies.
Agreements of this nature have been a common practice in business for many years. Pennsylvania R. R. Co.
v. Burr, 130 Fed. Rep. 847; Bradley v. Lehigh Valley
R. R. Co., 153 Fed. Rep. 350. It is clear that if valid and
enforced according to their terms, they accomplish the
desired purpose. They supply the shipper promptly'with
money to the full extent of the indemnity or compensation to which he is entitled on account of the loss; and they
preserve to the insurers the claim against the carrier to
which by the general law of insurance, independently of
special agreement, they would become subrogated upon
payment by them of the loss. The carrier insiss that the
transaction, while in terms a loan, is in substance a payment of insurance; that to treat it as if it were a loan, is
to follow the letter of the agreement and to disregard the
actual facts; and that to give it effect as a loan is to sanction fiction and subterfuge. -But no good reason appears
either for questioning its legality or for denying it effect.
The shipper is under no obligation to the carrier to take
out insurance on the cargo; and the freight rate is the same
whether he does or does not insure. The general law does
Aot give the carrier, upon payment of the shipper's claim,
a right by subrogation against the insurers. The insurer
has, on the other hand, by the general law, a right of subrogation against the carrier. Such claims, like tangible

LUCKENBACH v. McCAHAN SUGAR CO.
139.

Opinion of the Court.

salvage, are elements which enter into the calculations
of actuaries in fixing insurance rates; and, at least in the
mutual companies, the insured gets some benefit from
amounts realized therefrom. It is essential to the performance of the insurer's service, that the insured be
promptly put in funds, so that his business may be continued without embarrassment. Unless this is provided
for, credits which are commonly issued against drafts
or notes with bills of lading attached, would not be granted.
Whether the transfer of money or other thing shall operate as a payment, is ordinarily a matter which is determined by the intention of the parties to the transaction.
Compare The Kimball, 3 Wall. 37, 44. The insurer could
not have been obliged to pay until the condition of their
liability (i. e., non-liability of the carrier) had been established. The shipper could not have been obliged to surrender to the insurers the conduct of the litigation against
the carrier, until the insurers had paid. In consideration
of securing them the right to conduct the litigation, the
insurers made the advances. It is creditable to the ingenuity of business men that an arrangement should have
been devised which is consonant both with the needs of
commerce and the demands of justice.
Third. The owners contend that, under § 4283 of the
Revised Statutes and § 18 of the Act of June 26, 1884,
c. 121, 23 Stat. 53, 57, their liability should have been
limited to the value of the ship and her pending freight;
because the District Court found that her unseaworthiness was without their privity or knowledge; and this
findinig was not disturbed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
But the liability of the owners sought to be enforced here
is one resting upon their personal contract; and to such
liabilities the limitations acts do not apply. Pendleton v.
Benner Line, 246 U. S. 353.
It is also urged that, as between the owners and twe In,sular Line, the original warranty of seaworthiness was

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

exhausted upon delivery of the ship to the charterers
and that the maintenance clause relied upon does not import a warranty of seaworthiness at the commencement
of each voyage under a time charter, but merely an obligation to pay the expense of keeping her hull and machinery
in repair throughout the service. Neither the language of
the clause nor the character of time charters afford support
for this contention. The charter of the vessel states
clearly that the vessel "being, on her delivery, tight,
staunch, [and] strong" the owners will "maintain her in a
thoroughly efficient state in hull and machinery for and
during the service"-not pay the expense of maintaining her. This duty to maintain the vessel in an efficient
state is imposed by the contract, because a time charter,
like a charter for a single voyage, is not a demise of the
ship. In both, the charterer is without control over her
repair and maintenance. In operations under each the
charterer becomes liable to shippers without limitation
for losses due to unseaworthiness discoverable by the
exercise of due diligence on the part of the owners; and in
each case he requires for his protection a warranty, without limitation, of seaworthiness at the commencement
of every voyage. Compare The Burma, 187 Fed. Rep. 94;
Whipple v. -Mississippi & Yazoo Packet Co., 34 Fed.
Rep. 54; Mclver & Co.) Ltd., v. Tate Steamers, Ltd., [19031
1 K. B. 362; Parkv. Duncan & Sons, 35 Scottish Law Rep.
378. If Giertsen v. Turnbull & Co., 45 Scottish Law Rep.
916, strongly relied upon by the owners, is inconsistent
with this view, it should be disregarded.
. Fourth. The vessel was owned 54/80ths by Edgar F'.
Luckenbach, as sole trustee of the estate of Lewis Lucken'bach; 10/80ths by Edgar F. Luckenbach, individually;
and 16/80ths by John W. Weber and Hattie W. Luckenbach, executors of the estate of Edward Luckenbach.
All of these parties were impleaded as owners. The charter
party was signed only by "Estate of Lewis Luckenbach,

MAcMATH v. UNITED STATES.
139.

•151

Syllabus.

per Edgar F. Luckenbach, Trustee;" but it was admitted
by all the petitioners that Edgar F. Luckenbach, Trustee,
in so signing the charter party, acted for all the owners and
intended to bind all. The decree in the District Court
declares that libelant was entitled to recovery "from the
respondents Edgar F. Luckenbach et al., her owners."
The decree in the Circuit Court of Appeals adjudged
(presumably through inadvertence) that the payment
should be made by "the Estate of Luckenbach." The
right to recover against all the owners, for the full amount,
in case any of them was so liable, was not controverted.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be modified so as to render all the owners liable. Compare Pendleton v. Renner Line, 246 U. S. 353. As so modified, the decree is

Affirmed.

MAcMATH, ADMINISTRATRIX OF MAcMATH,
UNITED STATES.

,.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 79.

Argued November 22, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

Revised Statutes, § 2621, authorizes Collectors to employ, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, weighers at the-several
ports, and does not prescribe their number; the Act of July 26, 1866,
c. 269, § 3, 14 Stat. 289, fixes their salaries at $2,500; Rev. Statg.,
§ 2634,-authorizes the Secretary to fix the number and compensation
of clerks to be employed by any Collector. M received succesaive
appointments as clerk "to act as acting U. S. weighei ," at compensations less than $2,500 per annum, and took oath as such. Held,
that the fact that he was assigned, and performed, the dvties of
weigher did not pcl(him in that office and entitle him. to its salary.
51 Ct. Cims. 356, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

