COCHNOWER v. UNITED STATES.
399.

Counsel for Parties.

Further discussion we deem unnecessary, but we may
observe that in Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S.
286, 310, and in Williams v. Johnson, 239 U. S. 414, 420,
421, a question was intimated whether a grantee of an
Indian could avail himself of the Indian's right, if he
had any, to assert the unconstitutionality of an act of
Congress. Opinion, however, was reserved, and we reserve it here, and rest the case on the grounds we have
discussed.
Judgment affirmed.

COCHNOWER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 80.

Argued December 16, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

Primarily, the creation of offices and the assignment of their compensation is a legislative function; and the fact and the extent of any delegation of it must clearly appear.
The Act of March 4, 1909, c. 314, 35 Stat. 1065, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury "to increase and fix" the compensation of
inspectors of customs, as he may think advisable, etc., did not empower him to decrease their salaries.
51 Ct. Clms. 461, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William E. Russell, with whom Mr. Seward G.
Spoor, Mr. Louis T. Michener and Mr. Perry G. Michener
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson and Mr.
Harvey D. Jacob, for the United States, submitted.

'OCTOBER

TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE McKiNNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appeal from the Court of Claims involving the construction of 'an Act of Congress passed March 4, 1909,
c. 314, 35 Stat. 1065, entitled "An Act Fixing the
compensation of certain officials in the custom service,
and for other purposes." This case is concerned particularly with ยง 2, which provides as follows: "That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and 'he is hereby, authorized to
increase and fix [italics ours] the compensation of inspectors
of customs, as he may think advisable, not to exceed in
any case the rate of six dollars per diem, and in all cases
where the maximum compensation is paid no allowance
shall be made for meals or other expenses incurred by inspectors when required to work at unusual hours."
The Court of Claims construed the provision as authorizing the Secretary to decrease the salary of inspectors
and -dismissed Cochnower's petition that presented a
claim for the difference between the salary at which he
was serving and that from which he was reduced by the
Secretary, in contest of the Secretary's power. Filom the
judgment of the court this appeal was taken.
Cochnower's petition shows that he served in the customs service in various capacities and at various salaries,
which he details; from 1879 to June 13, 1908, when he was
appointed day inspector at $5.00 per diem, at which rate
he served until July 1, 1910, when he was reduced to
$4.00 per diem, at which rate he-is now serving.
The case is one simply of statutory construction and
depends primarily on the words "increase and fix" which
we have italicized in our quotation of ยง 2. In opposition
to the Court of Claims' view of them, counsel for Cochnower have indulged in a wide range and have been
elaborate in citation and review of prior legislation and
the decisions of the courts upon it. Counsel for the

COCHNOWER v. UNITED STATES.
405.

Opinion of the Court.

Government have confined themselves to narrower limits
and even urge that the argument based on "long-continued and contemporaneous

construction, . . . is

irrelevant for the reason that section 8 of the said act of
1909 repealed all laws -and parts of laws inconsistent"
with it, and that its obvious purpose was to relieve the
Secretary from whatever construction might have been
put upon his acts or those of his predecessors under previous legislation. In other words, as we understand the
Government, the Act of 1909 is to stand by itself and was
intended to be and must be taken as the measure of the
Secretary's power after its enactment; that it could not be
limited or opposed by prior legislation, for that had been
repealed; nor by prior practices, for they had been superseded, and a new rule of authority and practice pronounced. We may accept this as the gage of the Government and consider how far the act is a grant of authority
to the Secretary.
Primarily we may say that the creation of offices*-and
the assignment of their compensation is a legislative function. Glavey v. United States, 182 U. S.595; United States
v. Andrews, 240 U. S.90. And we think the delegation
of such function and the extent of its delegation must have
clear expression or implication. The Act of 1909 does give
a power to the Secretary, but the power is not absolute;
it is expressed with qualification. The Government's contention makes it absolute, having no limit but the discretion of the Secretary. The contention gives the qualification no purpose, makes it simply a confusion or clumsiness
of words. But why are they to be so regarded? Congress did not have to disguise its purpose or furtively accomplish it. And if Congress accidentally fell into the
equivocal, the resulting uncertainty must be resolved by
the application of the simple rule of considering all the
words of a statute in their proper dependence. Reverting
then to the statute, we discover that it was at pains to

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

express clearly the power to "increase." If it had been
intended to give the power to "decrease "-an accurately
opposite power-it would have been at equal pains to
have explic&ly declared it; and thus the unlimited discretion in the Secretary contended for by the Government would have been simply and directly conferred and
not left to be guessed from a circumlocution of words or
to be picked out of a questionable ambiguity. We say
questionable ambiguity because its existence can be readily
disputed. If it exists at all it exists in the word "fix"
in the collocation "fix the compensation." But the instant signification of the word is the opposite of changeit declares stability and confirmation-and, giving it this
sense, it is the natural complement of the power to increase, establishes the increase (fixes it) thereafter as the
legal compensation. And this, we think, is the proper
construction, direct, intelligible and adequate.
It is, however, urged that the act implies minimum
and maxhnum salaries, especially of inspectors, and also
the power of classification of inspectors. We are not called
upon to dispute it. The fact or the power does not enlarge
the authority to increase salaries into an authority to decrease them. The power given can otherwise be accommodated.
We think, therefore, that the Court of Claims erred in
dismissing the petition, and its judgment is reversed an&
the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
So ordered.

