GULF OIL CORP. v. LEWELLYN.
Opinion of the Court.

GULF OIL CORPORATION v. LEWELLYN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
TWENTY-THIRD DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 310.

Argued November 4, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1913.

Dividends of earnings by subsidiaries to a company holding all their
stock and controlling them in conducting a single enterprise, the
result of the transfers being merely that the main company became
the holder of debts in the business, previously due from one subsidiary to another, held not taxable as income under the Income
Tax Act of October 3, 1913, where the earnings were accumulated
before the taxing year and had practically become capital. Southern Pacific Co. v. Lawe, 247 U. S. 330.
245 Fed. Rep. 1, reversed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.Win. A. Seifert, with whom Mr. J. H. Beal was on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr.William C. Herron for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit to recover a tax levied upon certain
dividends as income, under the Act of October 3, 1913,
c. 16, § II, 38 Stat. 114, 166. The District Court gave
judgment for the plaintiff, 242 Fed. Rep. 709, but this
judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
245 Fed. Rep. 1. 158 C. C. A.,1.
The facts may be abridged from the findings below as
follows. The petitioner was a holding company owning

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

all the stock in the other corporations concerned except
the qualifying shares held by directors. These companies with others constituted a single enterprise, carried
on by the petitioner, of producing, buying, transporting,
refining and selling oil. The subsidiary companies had
retained their earnings, although making some loans
inter se, and all their funds were invested in properties
or actually required to carry on the business, so that the
,debtor companies had no money available to pay their
debts. In January, 1913, the petitioner decided to take
over the previously accumulated earnings and surplus
and did so in that year by votes of the companies that it
controlled. But, disregarding the forms gone through,
the result was merely that the petitioner became the
holder of the, debts previously due from one of its companies to another. It was no richer than before, but
its property now was represented by stock in and debts
due from its subsidiaries, whereas formerly it was represented by the stock alone, the change being effected by
entries upon the respective companies' books. The
earnings thus transferred had been accumulated and had
been used as capital before the taxing year. Lynch v.
Turrish, 247 U. S. 221, 228.
We are of opinion that the decision of the District
Court was right. It is true that the petitioner and its
subsidiaries were distinct beings in eontemplation of law,
but the facts that they were related'as parts of one enterprise, all owned by the petitioner, that the debts were all
enterprise debts due to members, and that the dividends
represented earnings that had been made in former years
and that practically had been converted into capital,
. unite to convince us that the transaction should be regarded as bookkeeping rather than as "dividends declared
and paid in the ordinary course by a corporation."
Lynch v. Hornby, 247 U. S. 339, 346. The petitioner did
not itself do the business of its subsidiaries and have

STERRETT v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
71.

Counsel for Petitioner.

possession of their property as in Southern Pacific Co. v.

Lowe, 247 U. S. 330, but the principle of that case must
be taken to cover this. By §II, G, (c), 38 Stat. 174, and
S, id. 202, the tax from January 1 to February 28, 1913,
is levied as a special excise tax, but in view of our decision
that the dividends here concerned were not income it is
unnecessary to discuss the further question that has
been raised under the latter clause as to the effect of the
fact that excise taxes upon the subsidiary corporations
htd been paid.
"Judgqment reversed.

STERRETT, AS RECEIVER OF THE ALABAMA
TRUST & SAVINGS COMPANY, v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI, OHIO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 378.

Argued November 8, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

A chancery receiver has no authority to sue in the courts of a foreign
jurisdiction to recover demands or property therein situated. Booth
v. Clark, 17 How. 322. P. 76.
Certain Alabama laws, relating to the administration of the assets
of insolvent banking and other corporations (Code, 1907, §§ 3509,
3511, 3512, 3560), held not to vest title in the receiver so as to enable
him to sue in the District Court in anothe- '-+ate without an ancillary appointment. P. 77.
246 Fed. Rep. 753, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edmund H. Dryer, with whom Mr. Philip Roetringer and Mr. S. C. Roettinger were on the briefs, for
petitioner.

