CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. CO. v. WRIGHT.
521.

525

Syllabus.

cost was their affair. There was no contract and no request. They went into a speculation and their only
claim is a lien upon goods that they have rescued for a
share in the saving that they have made for the owners.
The right to share in a benefit that is the result of their
work is the only ground upon which the plaintiffs can
stand. Of course, within that limit the necessary work
and the danger are matters to be considered. Here the
danger might have been great but it was not, and the
work seems to deserve neither much praise nor much
blame. There was more of commercial speculation and
less of help not to be found elsewhere than is usual in
salvage cases, and we are not prepared to say that the
Supreme Court ought to hav allowed more. We are
equally unprepared to say that it should have allowed less.
The services were rendered rightfully and were fairly
efficient. Neither side would be likely to inspire enthusiasm and both justly may be left where they were
left by the Court below.
Decree affirmed.

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
WRIGHT, COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE
STATE OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE.STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 163. Argued January 21, 1919.-Decided February 3, 1919.
The same reasons which led this court to decide that the tax exemptions in the special charters of the Augusta & Savannah and the
Southwestern -Railroads inured to the Central of Georgia Railway
as their lessee and precluded taxing the latter upon the fee of the
leased property (Wright v. Central of Georgia Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 674),

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

invalidate an attempt to evade the charter contracts by a tax of the
leasehold interests.
Contracts in special charters creating perpetual tax exemptions are not
revocable by later provisions of the state constitution.
146 Georgia, 406, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. M. Cunningham, Jr., and Mr. A. R. Lawton for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel H. Sibley, with whom Mr. John C. Hart
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought bcy the Railway Company to prevent the collection of certain taxes, which, it is
alleged, would be contrary to Article I, ยง 10, and to the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. The case was heard on bill, demurrer and answer
and certain agreed facts, and the Court of first instance
issued an injunction as prayed. The decree was reversed
however by the Supreme Court of Georgia and a writ of
error was taken out to bring the case here. It presents
another attempt to accomplish, by a change in form, what
in Wright v. Central of Georgia Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 674, was
held to be an unconstitutional result.
In that decision it was explained how the Central of
Georgia Railway Company had become the holder of
leases from the Augusta and Savannah and the Southwestern Railroad of property which by the charters of the
lessors was to be taxed only in a certain way and to a certain amount. An attempt had been made to tax the
lessee for the property, the leases being for one hundred
and one years, renewable in like periods upon the same
terms forever. The tax was laid upon the real estate, road

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. CO. t. WRIGHT.
525.

527

Opinion of the Court.

bed, and franchise value, (with a certain deduction), of
the two lessors. It was held that the statutes made the
fee exempt from other taxation than that provided for, in
favor as well of the lessee as of the lessor. The taxes now
attempted to be levied are upon the leasehold interests of
the lessee in the same roads and it is argued that, if the
leases produce a profit in excess of the rental, the value is
required to be taxed by the constitution of the State.
But the constitution was subsequent to the charters that
created the exemption and must yield to them if they apply
to the present attempt. We are of opinion that although
the decision in the former case necessarily was, confined to
the question before the Court, the reasoning applies with
equal force to that now before us. The cases of Rochester
Ry. Co. v. Rochester, 205 U. S. 236, and Jetton v. University
of the South, 208 U. S. 489, were urged as opposed to the
conclusion reached but were thought not to control in
view of the exceptional facts and language that had tobe
considered, as was recognized in Morris Canal & Banking
Co. v. Baird, 239 U. S. 126, 132. We must follow the
precedent that was established after full discussion and
with recognition of the difficulties involved.
The charter contracts in question are of a kind that goes
back to the time when railroads were barely beginning
and that would not be likely. to be repeated, but of course
will be carried out by the State according to what was
meant when they were made.
Decree reversed.

