OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

The United States has that power and the Courts may
exercise their portion of it unless prohibited in some constitutional way.
If the passage quoted from the answer is sufficient to
open the contention that treaties had contracted for the
establishment of a boundary commission with exclusive
jurisdiction and so had prohibited the Courts from dealing
with the question, neither the validity nor the construcquestion; or if an attenution of any treaty was drawn in,
ated question can be discovered it is no more than formal.
A commission sat under the last of the treaties and its
action was rejected by the Government as abortive. As
the Government had withdrawn its suggestion of comity
so far as the present case is concerned, there was no reason
why the Court should not proceed to trial, and there is no
reason why the present writ should not be dismissed as it
was in Warder v. Loomis, 197 U. S. 619, and in Warder v.
Cotton, 207 U. S. 582. It follows that some other questions
argued cannot be discussed.
Writ of errordismissed.

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 357.. Argued November 5, 6, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The transportation of liquor upon the person, and for the personal use,
of an interstate passenger, is "interstate commerce." P. 424.
Under the power to regulate interstate commerce, Congress may forbid
the interstate transportation of intoxicating liquor without regard
to the policy or law of any State. P. 425.
The "Reed Amendment," ยง 5, Act of March 3, 1917, c. 162, 39 Stat.
1058, 1069, provides: "Whoever shall order, purchase, or cayuse in-

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
420.

Opinion of the Court.

toxicating liquors to be transported in interstate commerce, except
for scientific, sacramental, medicinal, and mechanical purposes, into
any State or Territory the laws of whiah State or Territory prohibit
the manufacture or sale therein of intoxicating liquors for beverage
purposes shall be punished as aforesaid: Provided, That nothing
herein shall authorize the shipment of liquor into any State contrary
to the laws of such State." Respondent bought intoxicating liquor
in Kentucky intending to take it to West Virginia for his personal
use as a beverage, and for that purpose carried it upon his person on
a trip by common carrier into the latter State, whose laws permitted
such importation but forbade manufacture or sale for beverage purposes. Held: (1) That the Amendment applied, not being limited
to cases of importation for commercial purposes; (2) that, as so construed, it is within the power of Congress under the commerce clause.
P. 427.
Reversed.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom
Mr. Charles S. Coffey was on the brief, for the United
States.
No appearance for defendant in error.

MR.JusTiCE, DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error bringing in review under the
Criminal Appeals Act the judgment of the District Court
of the United States for the Southern District of West
Virginia sustaining a demurrer and motion to quash an
indictment against one Dan Hill. The indictment charged
that Hill on the 20th of November, 1917, being in the
State of Kentucky, there intended to go and be carried
by means of a common carrier, engaged in interstate commerce, from the State of Kentucky into the State of West
Virginia, and intended to carry upon his person, as a
beverage, for his personal use, a quantity of intoxicating
liquor, to-wit: one quart thereof, into the State of West

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

Virginia, and did in the State of Kentucky purchase and
procure a quantity of intoxicating liquor, to-wit:- one
quart thereof, contained in bottles, and did then and
there board a certain trolley car, being operated by a
common carrier corporation engaged in interstate commerce, and by means thereof, did cause hhnself and the
said intoxicating liquor, then upon his person, to be carried and transported in interstate commerce into the State
of West Virginia. It is charged that Hill violated the Act
of Congress approved March 3, 1917, commonly known
as the Reed Amendment, by thus carrying in interstate
commerce from Kentucky to West Virginia a quantity
of intoxicating liquor as a beverage for his personal use,
the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes being then prohibited by the laws of the
State of West Virginia. Further, that the intoxicating
liquor was not ordered, purchased, or caused to be transported for scientific, sacramental, medicinal, or mechanical
purposes.
The Reed Amendment is a part of ยง 5 of the Post-Office
Appropriation Act, approved March 3, 1917, c. 162, 39
Stat. 1058, 1069, and reads as follows:
it* *
Whoever shall order, purchase, or cause intoxicating liquors to be transported in interstate commerce, except for scientific, sacramental, medicinal, and
mechanical purposes, into any State or Territory the laws
of which State or Territory prohibit the manufacture or
sale therein of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes
shall be punished as aforesaid: Provided, That nothing
herein shall authorize the shipment of liquor into any
State contrary to the laws of such State.
."
The ground of decision, as appears by the opinion of the
District Court, was that the phrase: "transported in
interstate commerce," as used in the act, was intended
to mean and apply only to liquor transported for commercial purposes. This conclusion was reached from a

UNITED Sr1kATES v. HiLhI:
420.

Opinion'f tlie'Co irt.

construction of the act when read in the light of other
legislation of Congress upon the subject of interstate
transportation of liquor. Attention was called to ihe
terms of the Wilson Act of 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, providing that intoxicating liquors transported into any
State or Territory, or remaining therein for use, consumption, sale or storage, shall be subject on their arrival therein
to the operation of the laws of the State or Territory
enacted in the exercise of the police power. Reference
was also made to the subsequent legislation known as the
Webb-Kenyon Act, March 1, 1913, c. 90, 37 Stat. 699,
prohibiting the shipment and transportation of intoxicating liquor from one State into another State when such
liquor is intended to be received, possessed, sold or used
in violation of the laws of such State.

Advertence was

made to the fact that the provisions of both the Wilson
and Webb-Kenyon Acts apply broadly to the interstate
transportation of liquors whether for commercial use or
otherwise. It was concluded that Congress in the enactment of the Reed Amendment intended to aid the local

law of the State by preventing shipment of intoxicating
liquors in interstate commerce when intended for commercial purposes; and as the law of West Virginia permits
any person to bring into the State not more than one

quart of liquor, in any period of thirty days, for personal
use, Congress did not intend to prohibit interstate transportation of such liquors not intended to be used for commercial purposes. We are of opinion that this is a too

narrow construction of the Reed Amendment.
The Constitution confers upon Congress the power to
regulate commerce among the States. From an early

day such commerce has been held to include the transportation of persons and property no less than the purchase,
sale and exchange of commodities. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 188; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114

U. S. 196, 203. "Importation into one State from another

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

is the indispensable element, the test, of interstate commerce." International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.
91, 107; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 345. The transportation of one's own goods from State to State is interstate
commerce, and, as such, subject to the regulatory power
of Congress. Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548, 560. The
transportation of liquor upon the person of one being
carried in interstate commerce is within the well-established meaning of the words "interstate commerce."
United States v. Chavez, 228 U. S.525, 532.
Congress in the passage of the Reed Amendment must
be presumed to have had, and in our opinion undoubtedly
did have, in mind this well-known and often declared
meaning of interstate commerce. It had already provided in the Wilson Act for state control over liquor
after its delivery to the consignee in interstate commerce.
In the Webb-Kenyon Act it had prohibited the shipment
of liquor in interstate commerce where the same was to be
used in violation of the law of the State into which it was
transported. In the passage of the Reed Amendment it
was intended to take another step in legislation under the
authority of the commerce clause. The meaning of the
act must be found in the language in which it is expressed,
when, as here, there is no ambiguity in the terms of the
law. The order, purchase, or transportation in interstate
commerce, save for certain excepted purposes, is forbidden.
The exceptions are specific and are those for scientific,
sacramental, medicinal, or mechanical purposes; and in
the proviso it is set forth that nothing contained in the
act shall authorize interstate commerce shipments into a
State contrary to its laws.
West Virginia is a State in which the manufacture and
sale of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes is prohibited. If the act is within the constitutional authority
of Congress, it follows that the indictment charged an
offense within the terms of the law. That Congress posses-

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
420.

Opinion of the Court.

ses supreme authority to regulate interstate commerce
subject only to the limitations of the Constitution, is too
well established to require the citation of the numerous
cases in this court which have so held. Congress may
exercise this authority in aid of the policy of the State,
if it sees fit to do so. It is equally clear that the policy
of Congress acting independently of the States may induce
legislation without reference to the particular policy or
law of any given State. Acting within the authority
conferred by the Constitution it is for Congress to determine what legislation will attain its purposes. The
control of Congress over interstate commerce is not to
be limited by state laws. Congress, and not the States,
is given the authority to regulate interstate commerce.
When Congress acts, keeping within the authority committed to it, its laws become by the terms of the Constitution itself the supreme laws of the land. "This is not to
say that the Nation may deal with the internal concerns
of the State, as such, but that the execution by Congress of its constitutional power to regulate interstate
commerce is not limited by the fact that intrastate transactions may have become so interwoven therewith that
the effective government of the former incidentally controls the latter. This conclusion necessarily results from
the supremacy of the national power within its appointed
sphere." Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 399, and
previous decisions of this court therein cited.
The power of Congress, it is true, is to regulate commerce, which is ordinarily accomplished by prescribing
rules for its conduct. That regulation may take the character of prohibition; in proper cases, is well established
by the decisions of this court. Lottery Case, supra; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S.45; Hoke v. United
States, 227 U. S.308; Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S.
470; Clark DistillingCo. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242
U. S.311; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S.251, 270, 271.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

That Congress has this authority over the transportation of liquor in interstate commerce, we entertain no
doubt. In the recent case of Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., supra, this subject was given full
consideration. That case involved the constitutionality
of the Webb-Kenyon Law, prohibiting the shipment of
liquors into States to be used therein in violation of the
local law. While such was the particular case before the
court, the authority of Congress to make regulations of its
own was directly involved, and its authority over interstate commerce in intoxicating liquors was clearly stated
and definitely recognized. After discussing the power
of Congress over such shipment in interstate commerce,
and affirming the ample power possessed by Congress
over the subject-matter in view of its characteristics,
this court said:
. .
we can see no reason for saying that although
Congress in view of the nature and character of intoxicants
had a power to forbid the- movement in interstate commerce, it had not the authority to so deal with the subject as to establish a regulation (which is what was done
by the Webb-Kenyon Law) making it impossible for
one State to violate the prohibitions of the laws of another through the channels of interstate commerce.
Indeed, we can see no escape from the conclusion that
if we accepted the proposition urged, we would be obliged
to announce the contradiction in terms that because Congress had exerted a regulation lesser in power than it
was authorized to exert, therefore its action was void for
excess of power. Or, in other words, stating the necessary
result of the argument from a concrete consideration of
the particular subject here involved, that because Congress in adopting a regulation had considered the nature
and character of our dual system of government,, State
and Nation, and instead of absolutely prohibiting, had so
conformed its regulation as to produce cooperation be-

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
420.

Opinion of the Court.

tween the local and national forces of government to the
end of preserving the rights of all, it had thereby transcended the complete and perfect power of regulation conferred by the Constitution."
In view of the authority of Congress over the subjectmatter, and the enactment of previous legislation embodied in the Wilson and Webb-Kenyon Laws, we have
no question that Congress enacted this statute because
of its belief that in States prohibiting the sale and manufacture of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes the
facilities of interstate commerce should be denied to the
introduction of intoxicants by means of interstate commerce, except for the limited purposes permitted in the
statute which have nothing to do with liquor when used
as a beverage. That the State saw fit to permit the introduction of liquor for personal use in limited quantity in
nowise interferes with the authority of Congress, acting
under its plenary power over interstate commerce, to
make the prohibition against interstate shipment contained in this act. It may exert its authority, as in the
Wilson and Webb-Kenyon Acts, having in view the laws
of the State, but it has a power of its own, which in this
instance it has exerted in accordance with its view of
public policy.
When Congress exerts its authority in a matter within
its control, state laws must give way in view of the regulation of the subject-matter by the superior power conferred by the Constitution. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
Horton, 233 U. S.492; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Hesterly, 228 U. S. 702; St. Louis, San
Francisco& Texas Ry. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.352.
It follows that the District Court erred in sustaining the demurrer and motion to quash, and its judgment is
Reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

248 U. S.

dissenting.

When Hill carried liquor from Kentucky into West
Virginia for his personal use he did only what the latter
State permitted. Construed as forbidding this actionbecause West Virginia had undertaken to forbid manufacture and sale of intoxicants, the Reed Amendment in
no proper sense regulates interstate commerce, but is a
direct intermeddling with the State's internal affairs.
Whether regarded as reward or punishment for wisdom
or folly in enacting limited prohibition, the amendment
so construed, I think, goes beyond federal power; and to
hold otherwise opens possibilities for partial and sectional
legislation which may destroy proper control of their own
affairs by the several States.
If Congress may deny liquor to those who live in a
State simply because its manufacture is not permitted
there, why may not this be done for any suggested reason,
e. g., because the roads are bad or men are hanged for
murder or coals are dug. Where is the limit?
The Webb-Kenyon Law, upheld in Clark Distilling
Co. v. Western Md. Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, is wholly different from the act here involved. It suspends as to intoxicants moving in interstate commerce the rule of freedom from control by state action which the courts infer
from congressional silence or failure specifically to regulate.
"The absence of any law of Congress on the subject is
equivalent to its declaration that commerce in that matter
shall be free." Bowman v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry.
Co., 125 U. S. 465, 508; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100,
119. In plain terms, it permits state statutes to operate
and thereby negatives any inference drawn from silence.
The Reed Amendment as now construed is a congressional
fiat imposing more complete prohibition wherever the State
has assumed to prevent manufacture or sale of intoxicants.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs in

this dissent.

