OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S,

v. Board of Equalization of Taxes, 87 N. J. L. 22; Long
Dock Co. v. State Board of Assessorsf 89 N. J. L. 108; 90
N. J. L. 701, so far as they touch the point at all, are based
upon the language of the charter of the Long Dock Company, P. L. 1856, p. 67, and are not inconsistent with
Hudson Tunnel Co. v. Attorney General; Cook v. Bayonne,
and Ocean Front Improvement Co. v. Ocean City Gardens
Co., supra. Under the doctrine of these cases, which we
accept as well founded in reason, to say nothing of authdrity, appellant's estate is taxable inder the New Jersey
laws.
Other points are raised, but none that sedms to require
mention.
Decree affirmed.

GUERINI STONE COMPANY v. P. J. CARLIN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 218. Argued November 7, 8, 1918.-Decided January 7. 1919.
C contracted to erect a federal building, and G subcontracted with C
to build the superstructure in a specified time, to be extended to make
up for delays caused by the owner, by C or by other causes specified,
and C agreed to provide all labor and materials not included in G's
contract in such manner as not to delay the material progress of
G's work, and to reimburse G for any loss caused by failure to do so.
G's work was stopped by the action of the Government in suspending the operations because of a defect in the foundation provided
by C, and after more than two months there was still no prospect
that G, though ready, could resume within a reasonable time. Held,
that an agreement that C would furnish a suitable foundation
so as not to delay G was imported, which was not dependent on
C's fault or the rights of the Government under the main con-

GUERINI STONE CO. v. CARLIN CONSTR. CO.
334.

335

Syllabus.

tract, and that G was not confined to the remedy of time extension
and reimbursement, but could treat the contract as broken and sue
for the breach. P. 340.
When the complaint counts upon a special building contract, and defendant's breach in failing to provide a proper place for plaintiff's
work under it, and also upon a quantum reruit for labor performed
and materials furnished, evidence of materials, etc., left on the premises by the plaintiff at the termination of the contract and appropriated by the defendant, is admissible under the latter count, without regard to its bearing on the damages recoverable under the special contract. P. 342.
Error in admitting evidence cannot be imputed to the trial court upon
the theory that a count of the complaint was waived at the trial,
when the theory depends on a statement made by plaintiff's counsel
in'the Circuit Court of Appeals, which was inconsistent with the bill
of exceptions. Id.
Upon the breach by the defendant of a building contract, certain tools
and appliances, brought to the building and used by the plaintiff
in performing the contract and susceptible of further use in completing the work, were left in place by the plaintiff and accepted
and appropriated by the defendant, held, that their value should be
considered as part of plaintiff's expenditure under the contract, in
computing damages, within the rule laid down in United States v.
Behan, 110 U. S. 338, 344, 346. Id.
Where a building contract contemplates that the contractor's ability
to perform will depend upon his receiving stipulated payments on
account as the work'progresses, a substantial failure to pay as stipulated will justify him in declining to proceed with the work. P. 344.
A contractor agreed to do certain concrete work, furnishing the materials, for a stated sum, payable partly in instalments, and by a separate paragraph.of the contractoffered an option,whichwas afterwards
accepted, to set at so much per square foot certain granite blocks, to
be furnished by the other party. There was a general provision for
monthly payments on account, not.to exceed a certain per cent. of
the cost of work erected in the building, to be made upon written
requisition, and the parties subsequently agreed upon a mode of
estimating concrete work for this purpose. Held: (1) That the acceptance of the option did not make a separate contract for the
granite work and that the provision for monthly payments applied.,
to that as well as to the concrete work, so that a requisition properly
included both classes; (2) that in any event a requisition uniting
demands for both classes was unobjectionable if the granite work had

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

been completet and the full compensation therefor had become pay'able. P. 345.
In an action for breach of a building contract, the complaint alleged
defendant's failure to make payments upon demands made "in
accordance with the contract," while the demands proved were
based on a modification of the contract. Held, an unimportant
variance not requiring an amendment, particularly in view of the
relation. of the matter to a former decision and mandate of this
court. P. 346.
An exception to an instruction should be specific, directing the mind
Pf. the court to some single point of alleged error. P. 348.
When the grounds relied on by the Circuit Court of Appeals for reversal
prove untenable, this court will consider what judgment should
have been rendered in view of other assignments of error. P. 349.
.241 Fed. Rep. 545, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward S. Paine,with whom Mr. Eugene Congleton
was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. John C. Wait, with whom Mr. Charles Hartzell
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us for the second time, our former
decision being reported in 240 U. S. 264. It was an action
for damages, brought by the present petitioner as plaintiff
against the present respondent as defendant in the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico. Our
first review was upon a direct writ of error sued out by
plaintiff under § 244, Judicial Code (Act of March 3,
1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1157), prior to the amendment
of January 28, 1915 (c. 22, 38 Stat. 804, §§ 3 & 6). Judgment was reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings. Upon the going down of the mandate a
new trial was had, resulting in a verdict in plaintiff's favor

GUERINI STONE CO. v. CARLIN CONSTR. CO.
334.

337

Opinion of the Court.

for substantial damages. To review the judgment entered thereon, defendant, under the Act of 1915, prosecuted a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit, setting up assignments of error based
upon rulings of the trial court in admitting and excluding
evidence and in giving and refusing instructions to the
jury. The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment and
ordered the cause to be remanded for further proceedings,
241 Fed. Rep. 545; and to review this judgment the present
writ of certiorari was allowed, 245 U. S.643.
The controversy arose in the course of the construction
of a federal post office and court building at San Juan,
Porto Rico. Plaintiff had a sub-contract for a part of the
work under defendant, which was the general contractor
under the Government of the United States, Pertinent
clauses of the contract and a general history of the case
were set forth in our former opinion and need not be
repeated at length.
The evidence at the second trial followed the general
lines of the first. Defendant was to construct the foundation complete to the basement floor. Upon this, plaintiff
was to construct the principal part of the building, including exterior and interior walls, floors, and roof, to be
built of concrete. For this work and the necessary materials defendant agreed to pay to plaintiff the sum of $64,750
in certain monthly instalments on account and the balance on completion. The plans called for certain granite
work, for which defendant was to send the cut blocks
from the United States; and under an option set forth in
paragraph 25, afterwards accepted by defendant, plaintiff
was to set this granite for 40 cents per square foot of surface.
It appeared that after the work had been, in progress for
some time a disagreement arose between the parties about
payments on account. Paragraph 12 of the contract
provided that there should be "monthly payments on

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

account, not to exceed in amount 85 per cent. of the cost
of the work actually erected in the building, provided that
the sub-contractor furnishes to the general contractors
a written requisition, on a form to be supplied by the general contractors, not less than twelve days before payment is required," etc. The contract, however, did not
provide how such cost of the work, other than the granite
setting, should be ascertained. In December, 1911, and
January, 1912, plaintiff made written requisitions which
were not complied with; and, according to plaintiff's
evidence, it was agreed between the parties on or about
February 2, 1912, that future applications and payments
should be made upon the basis of a schedule which specified, inter alia, "Exterior and interior concrete walls,
arches, and cement work $1.07 per cubic foot." On March
9, 1912, plaintiff made a requisition for payment computed
on this basis, and showing a balance-due of $11,735.95.
This requisition was in effect refused, and no further payment was made except the sum of $674, which was paid
a few days later.
In the month of February, 1912, the government
superintendent of construction found a serious settlement
in the foundation, as a result of which work upon the
building was ordered to be stopped. This order was
communicated verbally by defendant's representative to
plaintiff's agent at San Juan on the 9th of March, and was
confirmed two days later by letter, in which, however, a
request made by plaintiff's agent for instructions as to
what should be done with plaintiff's force of men pending
the suspension of the work was evaded. Plaintiff stopped
work pursuant to defendant's notice, and did nothing
more u on the building.
Thus matters remained until May 22, 1912, plaintiff in
the meantime having received no payment pursuant to
its requisition of March 9 beyond the small sum mentioned above, nor any instructions or permission to pro-

GUERINI STONE CO. v. CARLIN CONSTR. CO.
334.

339

Opinion of the Court.

ceed with the work upon the building; and, according to
plaintiff's evidence, it was impossible to tell when the
work could proceed. On May 22 plaintiff wrote to the
defendant referring to the stoppage of the work and to
"the very considerable cost and damage to us caused by
your breach of contract," to the inability to get payments
from defendant in accordance with the terms of the contract, and to defendant's refusal of an offer of arbitration
and refusal of "an assurance that even now we would have
an opportunity within any reasonable time to proceed
with our work,"7 and concluding with this notification:
"Under these circumstances and owing to your entire
failure to comply with the terms of the contract, we
hereby notify you that we now terminate the contract
and shall proceed no further with the work, and that we
shall hold you liable for the damages we have sustained
by reason of your breach of contract, including your failure
to provide labor and materials not included in the contract with us in such manner as not to delay the material
progress of our work and your failure to make payments
in accordance with the terms of the contract, and all other
breaches of contract on your part."
The principal ground of action was based upon the contention that in refusing to respond to plaintiff's requisitions for payments on account, and in the complete and
indefinite stoppage of plaintiff's work under the circumstances mentioned, defendant had committed breaches
of the contract so material as to am-unt to a total breach,
justifying plaintiff iideclining to proceed further and in
suing at once for its damages. See Anvil Mining Co. v.
Humble, 153 U. S. 540, 552. But as we pointed out in
240 U. S. 283, plaintiff counted also upon a quanlum
meruit for work and labor performed and materials furnished in and about the construction of the building.
The Circuit Court of Appeals attributed error to the
trial court in the following respects:

340

4 OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

(1) The trial court refused defendant's request to instruct the jury that plaintiff was not justified in terminating the contract because of delays, and in instructing
them on the contrary, as the court did in substance, that
if it was evident to the parties on May 22, 1912, that there
would be a long delay or an indefinite delay, or if it was
evidently impossible to tell when the work could be begun
again, plaintiff had a right to terminate the contract and
was not obliged to await indefinitely the pleasure of the
Government as to the resumption of work. It should be
noted that when plaintiff took action to terminate the contract, more than two months already had elapsed since the
work was stopped. This was undisputed, and of course must
be considered in dealing with the instruction referred to.
It is sufficiently obvious that a contract
for the construction of a building, even in the absence of an express
stipulation upon the subject, implies as an essential condition that a site shall be furnished upon which the structure may be erected. In this case the matter was not
*llowed to rest upon an implication, for, as we held in
our former opinion, the 11th paragraph of the sub-contract, providing: "The general contractors wil provide
all labor and materials not included in this contract in
such manner as not to delay the material progress of the
work, and in the event of failure so to do, thereby causing
loss to the sub-contractor, agree that they will reimburse
the sub-contractor for such loss," as applied to the facts
of the case, imported an agreement by defendant to
furnish the foundation in such manner that plaintiff
might build upon it without delay, and was inconsistent
with an implication that the parties intended that delays
attributable to the action of the owner should leave plaintiff remediless; and defendant's obligation to furnish a
suitable foundation was not dependent on whether it was
at fault or whether the delay was attributable to a stoppage of work by the owner in the exercise of a right con-

GUERINI STONE CO. v. CARLIN CONSTR. CO.
334.

341

Opinion of the Court.

ferred upon it by a provision of the principal contract
which was not brought into the sub-contract.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, however, held (241 Fed.
Rep. 549) that although under paragraph 11 defendant
would be liable to respond in damages for such delays
if plaintiff completed or stood ready to complete its
contract, yet it did not follow that if plaintiff was delayed
in completing its work within the 300 days specified in
paragraph 6 it could decline to go on, since by paragraph
7 it was provided that should the sub-contractor be obstructed or delayed in the prosecution or completion of
the work by neglect, delay, or default of the owner (among
other causes), the time fixed for the completion of the
work should be extended f or a period equivalent to the
time lost from such causes. The court held that this
rendered it clear that delays occasioned to the plaintiff
by the owner, the general contractor, etc., were not to
,excuse plaintiff from proceeding to complete the 6ontract,
but were to operate merely as an extension of the time
within which by the terms of the contract plaintiff was
required to perform its work. In our opinion there was
erroT in holding that the provisions of the 6th and 7th
paragraphs limited, thus, the provisions of the 11th.
From the fact that by paragraph 6 plaintiff was obliged
to finish the work in 300 days, and by paragraph 7 this
time was extended for plaintiff's benefit in the case of
delays caused by the owner, the general contractor, or
otherwise, as specified, it does not follow that plaintiff
was not entitled to finish the work more speedily if it
could do so; or that a breach of paragraph 11 by defendant, so serious as to result in a total suspension of the
work, with no reasonable prospect that it could be resumed within any reasonable time, left plaintiff still under
an obligation to hold itself in readiness to proceed, and
without remedy except an action for damages under that
paragraph.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

(2) The court found error in the admission of evidence
tending to show that at the time plaintiff ceased work
it had on hand and left upon the premises certain materials, machinery and tools of the value of $3,500, which
defendant .took and appropriated to its own use. As
pointed out above, the complaint, contained a general
claim in the nature of a quantum meruit for labor performed
and materials furnished. The particular item in question
was specified in the bill of particulars. This clearly justified the trial court in admitting the evidence over the only
substantial objection made, which was that it was immaterial and not within the pleadings. There is nothing
to show that it was admitted only for its bearing upon the
question of damages for breach of the special contract.
It is true that in answer to the objection of immateriality
plaintiff's counsel said: "I will show you a case where it
says that the rule is that the plaintiff's expenditure minus
any materials which he may have -on hand and plus any
profits which he might have made "-evidently referring
to United State3 v. Behan, 110 U. S. 338, 344, 346; but
in responding to a further objection that the material
could not be charged to defendant, plaintiff's counsel
insisted: "I propose to show that the defendant took it
and has it," and followed it up with proof to this effect.
The opir.ion of the Circuit Court of Appeals (241 Fed.
Rep. 550) shows that counsel for plaintiff in that court
stated that the quantum meruit had been disregarded, and
that the trial proceeded solely upon the ground of a
breach of the special contract; but the bill of exceptions
fails to bear this out, and error can not be attributed to
the trial court on that theory. There was no waiver of
the general claim for materials, and the evidence referred
to furnished a ground of recovery upon that' claim, irrespective of plaintiff's right to recover damages 'for
breach of the special contract.
But. upon the latter question also it was admissible,

GUERINI STONE CO. v. CARLIN CONSTR. CO. 343
334.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the assumption that the rule of damages laid down
in United States v. Behan, supra, was applicable, which is
not disputed. That rule would give the plaintiff a right
to recover what it had expended toward performance of
the contract, subject to a deduction for the value of the
materials remaining on hand at the time performance
was stopped. But of course the deduction is based upon
the theory that those materials remained the property
of plaintiff and subject to its disposal. If they were appropriated by defendant to its use-and this is what the
evidence tended to show-it is plain that their value should
not be deducted from, but should be treated as a part of,
plaintiff's contribution to the performance of the contract,
in addition to its other outlay in respect of work performed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals considered that the furnishing of the materials in question was a matter so entirely outside of the contract that it could not properly
be considered as an element of damage for its breach, and
that plaintiff's remedy to recover their value must be by
action of tort for conversion. But the evidence showed
no tortious conversion; it tended to show that the articles
were appropriated by defendant with plaintiff's consent;
and it hardly is necessary to say that, if tort there were,
plaintiff could waive it and sue upon the implied assumpsit. Great Falls Mfg. Co. v. Attorney General, 124 U. S.
581, 598; Hirsch v. Leatherbee Lumber Co., 69 N. J. L.
509, 513.
Nor was this a matter entirely outside of the contract.
The materials in question consisted in the main of tools
and appliances that had been brought to the building by
plaintiff for use in the performance of the contract, were
so used, presumably were fitted for further use on the
building, and upon the interruption of the work were
left in position in the control of defendant and ready
to be employed by it whenever it should proceed with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

work that plaintiff had been prevented from doing. If
they were accepted and retained by defendant, as the
evidence tended to show was the fact, it was proper to
take them into account as a part of plaintiff's expenditures
upon which the damages caused by defendant's breach
of the contract were to be computed.
(3) The next ground of error upon which the Circuit
Court of Appeals based its decision was an instruction
given to the jury, in substance, that if defendant failed
to make payments on account as called for by the contract, "a substantial failure, amounting substantially
to the withholding of the whole payment, not necessarily
the whole payment, but the bulk of the payment"such failure constituted a breach on the part of defendant
justifying plaintiff in stopping work and entitling it to
recover damages from defendant; and the refusal of a
requested instruction to the effect that "The delay of
defendant to make payments on estimates, in the absence
of a positive refusal to pay anything, was not ground for a
rescission or termination of the contract by plaintiff,"
and that plaintiff's remedy was to recover interest on the
deferred payments.
The Circuit Court of Appeals very properly held that
in a building or construction contract like the one in question,, calling for the performing of labor and furnishing
of materials covering a long period of time and involving
large expenditures, a stipulation for payments on account
to be made from time to time during the progress of the
work must be deemed so material that a'substantial failure
to pay would justify the contractor in declining to proceed. In addition to the provisions of paragraph 12,.
already referred to, the concluding paragraph of the contract was as follows: "And the said general contractors
hereby promise and agree with the said sub-contractor
to employ, and do hereby employ him to provide the
materials and to do the said work according to the terms

GUERINI STONE CO. v. CARLIN CONSTR. CO. 345
334.

Opinion of the Court.

and conditions herein contained and referred to for the
price aforesaid, and hereby contract to pay the same at the
time, in the manner and upon the conditions above set
forth." As is usually the case with building contracts,
it evidently was in the contemplation of the parties that
the contractor could not be expected to finance the operation to completion without receiving the stipulated payments on account as the work progressed. In such cases
a substantial compliance as to advance payments is a
condition precedent to the contractor's obligation to proceed. Canal Co. v. Gordon, 6 Wall. 561, 569; Phillips
Construction Co. v. Seymour, 91 U. S. 646, 649.
But it was held that defendant's refusal to pay was
justified because plaintiff's requisitions were not made out
in accordance with the provisions of the contract: There
were but two requisitions in evidence, one dated December
30, 1911, the other March 9, 1912. Both were held defective, in-that they included not only 85 per cent. of the
estimated amount of the concrete construction, which
was the principal subject-matter of plaintiff's contract,
but also a like percentage of the amount earned in setting
granite under the accepted option in paragraph 25. The
court held that the provision for monthly instalments
related only to the former, and that as to the granite
work plaintiff was not entitled to payments on account
in advance of its completion. In our opinion, howeyei
defendant's acceptance of the option to call upon plaintiff
to set the granite blocks did not make a separate contract,
but merely added something to the work that plaintiff
was to do under the contract previously made; and by
necessary inference it subjected the granite setting to the
appropriate general provisions respecting the method of
performance and the time when the work was to be paid,
for.

Were it otherwise, the requisition of March 9 could not
be rejected merely on the ground that it called for a pay-

OCTOBER TERM. 1918.
Opinion of the Court

248 U. S.

ment for granite work. We say this because there was
clear evidence-apparently uncontradicted, and at least
sufficient to go to the jury tending to show that the
granite setting was substantially completed by the early
part of February, and that because the few blocks remaining to be set were arriving intermittently and could
be set only at unreasonable cost, it was then at plaintiff's
request agreed by defendant that plaintiff should set no
more granite. This part of the work was thus brought
to a close, or so the jury might find; in which event, if it
constituted a separate contract, payable at completion,
as the Circuit Court of Appeals held, plaintiff on March
9th was entitled to demand not only 85 per cent., but the
entire amount due for granite setting.
(4) The court held the requisition of March 9 to be
defective upon the further ground that it was based upon
the unit price of $1.07 per cubic foot, pursuant to the
understanding said to have been arrived at between the
parties on February 2, instead of the actual cost of the
work erected in the building as required by paragraph
12 of the contract. It was held that since the complaint
alleged that plaintiff's demands for payment were made
"in accordance with the ternis of the contract," evidence
to show the agreement made on February 2 about unit
prices was not admissible without an amendment of the
complaint setting up a modification of the contract.
This view cannot be upheld. The allegation quoted
from the complaint did but touch upon the performance
of a condition precedent, concerning which the former
niceties of pleading no longer obtain. And besides, evidence of the agreement of February 2 about unit prices
was introduced at the first trial and was particularly
referred to in our opinion reviewing it (240 U. S. 273-274);
and the requisition of March 9, then as now relied upon
by plaintiff, was excluded from consideration by us only
because such details as were then furnished did not appear

GUERINI STONE CO. v. CARLIN CONSTR. CO.
334.

347

Opinion of the Court.

to bear out the estimate contained in it as to the amount
of work that had been completed (240 IJ. S. 282), an omission that was supplied at the second trial. As the case
went back for further proceedings in conformity with that
opinion, the trial court doubtless considered that compliance with our mandate required the admission of the
testimony as to the agreement of February 2, which furnished the basis of the requisition of March 9, and that no
amendment of the pleadings was necessary. Were there
doubt about this, we should deem it proper that the complaint be amended, or treated as if amended, even in the
appellate court, rather than that the judgment should
be reversed for so unimportant a variance, not in the least
prejudicial to defendant.
(5) The final ground upon which the reversal was rested
was an instruction given by the trial court to the jury upon
the question of damages in the following terms: "If you
find he [meaning plaintiff] was justified in terminating
the contract as he did on May 22 upon the principles
above given you, you can consider the reasonable expenditures incurred by the plaintiff, the unavoidable
losses incident to stoppage, the amount of work actually
performed, the amount plaintiff was actually entitled to
by reason of such work at the contract price, and the
profits which plaintiff could have made if allowed to cornplete the work under the contract. So the different items
that you may, if you come to the question, take into
account, are the outlays less the material on hand, the
amount of work actually performed and the profits, if
you find there were any which were not speculative. The
measure of profits is the contract price less what is shown
to you as the expense of carrying out the contract, if that
is shown to you to your satisfaction." The appellate
court held this instruction to be misleading because it
embodied a duplication of elements. Respecting this a
difficult question would be presented if defendant were

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

in a position to raise it. When the case was here before,
we assumed (240 U. S. 282, 283) that an instruction similarly phrased ought to have been granted at plaintiff's
request had it been confined in its application to a recovery based upon a finding that the contract was rightfully terminated by the notice of May 22, 1912; but, this
was an assumption arguendo, and not a part of the matter
decided.
At the second trial this part of the charge was given by
the court of its own motion, not at plaintiff's request; nor
was it excepted to by defendant. The statement of the
Circuit Court of Appeals to the contrary (241 Fed. Rep.
555) is not borne out by the record. The proposition
criticized is not contained in any of the instructions requested by plaintiff; and even had it been requested there
is no exception touching it unless it be the following: "I
will ask on behalf of the defendant an exception . .
to the action of his Honor

.

. in giving all instruc-

tions requested by plaintiff." This is altogether too
general to be regarded as directing the mind of the trial
court to any single and precise point of alleged error so
as to call for a reconsideration of the ruling, and hence
could not furnish a basis for reversing the judgment.
That an exception must be specific need not be emphasized. McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 610; United
States v. U. S. Fidelity Co., 236 U. S. 512, 529.
There was another exception, couched in these terms:
"To that part of the charge to the effect that if the plaintiff had the right to terminate the contract under the
authority of the .Behan case, the measure of damages
would be not only the expenses incurred by the plaintiff,
but also reasonable profits." This, however, refers to
another passage in which the trial court quoted from the
headnote in 110 U. S. 338. This clause contained no
reference to the amount of work performed or what plaintiff was entitled to by reason of this work at the contract

,UNITED STATES v. COMYNS.
334.

Syllabus.

price; it mentioned only (a) plaintiff's outlay, and (b)
the lost profits, embodied no duplication of elements, and
was not erroneous.
Having found that none of the grounds relied upon by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for reversal of the judgment
of the trial court is tenable, it remains to consider what
judgment ought to have been rendered upon the record
and bill of exceptions, in view of the assignments of error
other than those we have thus far considered. United
States v. U. S. Fidelity Co., 236 U. S. 512, 528. There were
101 assignments in all, and these have been examined with
the aid of respondent's brief, which extends to 250 pages;
in addition to the oral argument; but we have found no
ground for reversing the judgment of the trial court.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, and
that of the District Court affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. COMYNS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 235.

Argued November 4, 5, 1918.-Decided Jknuary 7, 1919.

A bill of particulars supplementing an indictment is no part of the
record for the purpose of deciding a demurrer.
An indictment alleged a scheme to defraud divers persons, through use
of the mails, by representing that certain land1could be purchased by
them under 6 e Timber & Stone Act for less than its value, and tha
defendants would secure it for them in return for fees part payable
in advance, and would refund such advance payments in case of
non-success, whereas the defendants well knew they could not carry
out the agreement, but intended to secure the advance payments
and to appropriate them to their own use.
etld: (1) That a decision sustaining a demurrer was based upon a con-

