CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

PITTSBURGH MELTING COMPANY v. TOTTEN,
INSPECTOR OF THE BUREAU OF ANIMAL INDUSTRY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 28. Argued April 22, 1918.-Decided November 4, 1918.
Oleo oil, a substance made from the fat of slaughtered beeves, seldom
used by itself as food, but employed largely in making oleomargarine
and somewhat in cooking, is a "meat food product," within the Meat
Inspection Act of 1906-1907, when manufactured fit for human consumption and not "denatured," and is debarred from interstate and
foreign commerce unless first inspected and passed as by that act
provided. P. 7.
So held, where the shipper labeled the product "inedible," asserting
it was not intended for food purposes, but retained no control of the
use and declined to certify, as required by regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, that it was suitable for industrial purposes only,
and incapable of being used as food by man.
232 Fed. Rep. 694, affirmed.

THE. case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appo'ant.

2VS U. S

Mr. Samuel AicClay, with whom Mr. William 21. lobinson and Mr. Allen H. Kerr were on the brief, for appellant:
The act is directed against meat-food pr,,d'lcts which
are unfit for human food, and applies only to establishments whose products are for human consumption, not to
those that prepare and sell exclusively oils intended for
industrial purposes.
This view harmonizes with the purpose of ihe act as
expressed in its title and with the construction by the
Department of Agriculture in the regulations of April 1,
1908, which, with the approval of the Attorm.l Ceneral's
opinion (28 Ops. Atty. Gen. 369, 377), restricted meatfood products to those intended for human use and limited
the scope of the act, and jurisdiction under it, accordingly.
The regulations of November 1, 1914, extending the
definition to products "capable of being used as food by
man," and requiring appellant to certify, that its products
were not capable of being so used, are unreasonable; and
exceed the intent of the act and the power of the Secretary
of Agriculture under it. The words "meat" and "meat
food products" cannot be separhted from the purpose
for which the products are to be used. Commonwealth v.
Schollenberger, 153 Pa. St. 625.
The Secretary cannot by his regulations alter, amena,
extend or modify the act of Congress. Morrill v. Jones,
106 U. S. 466; United Stales v. 11,150 lbs. of Butter, 195
Fed. Rep. 657, 663; St. Louis Independent Packing Co. v.
Houston, 215 Fed. Rep. 553, 559, 561. The act does not
give him power over inedible grease intended solely for
industrial purposes, There was no evidence that appeliant
was guilty of an attempted evasion. The Secretary may
adopt such regulations not inconsistent with law as are
necessary to carry out the purposes of the act, but the
act confers no power whatever to 'determine what shall
constitute a "meat" or a "meat food product."
The
meaning of those words, as used, is clear.

PITTSBURGH MELTING CO. v. TOTTEN.
1.

Argument for Appellee.

Congress cannot delegate legislative authority to an
executive officer, and did not intend to do so.
If the meaning of the words, as used in the act, is doubtful, the construction which the Secretary placed upon them
for a period of more thari six years should have great
if not controlling weight.
Appellant's product was tallow oil and not oleo oil.
Appellant rendered its oils from fats purchased from
retail butchers and dealers (not subject to the act-ยง 21),
and from inspected wholesalers., and it had the right to
ship them if they were not unhealthful or unwholesome,
and even then, if they were intended for industrial and
not for food purposes. The Secretary may impose inspection either on the retail dealer or butcher, but, until he
elects to do so, neither the retail butcher or dealer nor his
product axe within the act. He could not, require appellant to buy its fats from official establishments rather
than retail butchers or dealers. The Department having
withdrawn inspection for failure to accede to this demand, appellant thereafter shipped its product solely
as inedible, and so. marked it, in accordance with the
regulations of 1908, certifying that it was intended for
industrial uses. Purchasers were not deceived; if any of
them converted the oils into a use for which they were not
sold, appellant was in no way responsible.
Neither tallow nor oleo oil is ordinarily used as a food.
Denaturing is not practicable and is only adopted in
cases of fats taken from diseased animals which have
been condemned.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor appellee:
Appellant's product is a meat-food product within the
meaning of the act.
Being a food product, it is no less so because it may
also be used for industrial purposes.
If an article is, in fact, a food product, its shipment

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

in interstate or foreign commerce without inspection is
prohibited whether the manufacturer intended it for
food or other purposes.
The evidence fails to show any good faith intention on
the part of appellant to confine its product to industrial
uses.
The validity or invalidity of the regulation3 called in
question can not affect the decision of this case, since, if
they were wholly void, appellant would not be entitled
to ship its product in interstate or foreign commerce
without inspection.
The regulations in question are, however, -valid.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Pittsburgh Melting Company filed a bill in the
District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Pennsylvania against the Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad Company and G. E. Totten, Inspector of. the
Bureau of Animal Industry of the Department of Agriculture, seeking a mandatory injunction requiring the
Railroad Company to receive and carry in interstate and
foreign commerce shipments of oil, the manufacture of
the Melting Company, and to restrain the Government
Inspector from interfering with the shipments..
A decree in favor of the complainant was rendered in
the District Court. 229 Fed. Rep. 214. Upon appeal
this decree was reversed by the Court of Appeals, and the
cause remanded to the District Court with directions to
dismiss the bill. 232 Fed. Rep. 694.
The case arises under the Meat Inspection Act of 1906,
1907, c. 3913, 34 Stat. 674, 675; c. 2907, 34 Stat. 1260,
1262, 1265. The act provides an elaborate system of
inspection of animals before slaughter, and of carcasses
after slaughter and of meat-food products, with a view
to prevent the shipment of impure, unwholesome, and

PITTSBURGH MELTING CO. v. TOTTEN.
Opifiion of the Court.

unfit meat and meat-food products in interstate and
foreign commerce. The act in part provides:
"That for the purposes hereinbefore set forth the Secretary of Agriculture shall cause to be made by inspectors
appointed for that purpose an examination and inspection
of all meat food products prepared for interstate or foreign
commerce in any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting,
packing, , rendering,' or similar establishment, and for
the purposes of any examination and inspection said inspectors shall have access at all times, by day or night,
whether the establishment be operated or not, to every
part of said establishment; and said inspectors shall mark,
stamp, tag, or label as 'Inspected and passed' all such
products found 'to be sound, healthful, and wholesome,
and which contain no dyes,, chemicals, Ipreservatives, or
ingredients which render such meat or meat food products
unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or unfit for human
food; and said inspectors shall label, mark, stamp, or
tag as 'Inspected and condemned' all such products
found unsound, unhealthful, -and unwholesome, or which
contain dyes, chemicals, preservatives, or ingredients
which render such meat or meat food products unsound,
unhealthful, unwholesome, or unfit for human food, and
all such condemned meat food products shall be destroyed for food purposes, as hereinbefore provided, and
the Secretary of Agriculture may remove inspectors
from any establishment which fails to so destroy such
condemned meat food products. .
.
And the act further provides:
"That on and after October first, nineteen hundred and
six, no person, firm, or corporation shall transport or offer
for transportation, and no carrier of interstate or foreign
commerce shall transport or receive for transportation
from one State or Territory or the District of Columbia
to any other State or Territory or the District of Columbia, or to auy place under the jurisdiction of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 IT. S

S&,ates, or to any foreign country, any carcasses or parts
thereof, meat, or meat food products thereof which have
not b)en inspected, examined, and marked as 'Inspected
and passed,' in accordance with the terms of this Act
and with the rules and regulations prescribed by the
Secretary of Agriculture:
"
The facts appearing of record so far as we deem them
necessary to fie decision of the case are:
The Melting Compary has long been engaged in ren(ering or converting anirnal fats into various products,
including the oil which I, 'Lhe subject-matter of this controversy. At one time the Company roade oleomargarine,
but owing to adverse legislation of the State of Pennsylvania desisted from doing so. Goverrment inspectors
were in the works of the Melting Company and inspected
and marked the products until 1909, when a controversy
arose between the Company and the Government officers
as to the purchase of the fats used by the Company.
Upon refusal to comply with the orders of such offivers,
inspection was withdrawn. - Whether this action was right
or not we do not stop to enquire, since the claim for relief
is based upon the allegation that complainant's oil is not
a meat-food product within the meaning of the statute.
After inspection was withdrawn, the Company continued to ship its oil, but did so under the then regulations
of the Department of Agriculture concerning the shipment of fat for industrial use, as "inedible," and so marking the receptacle containing the same and making the
certificate then required by the Department of Agriculture that it was inedible and not intended for food purposes. On November 1, 1914, the Department adopted
a new regulation requiring a certificate to accompany
the shipment of such fats claimed not to be food products,
stating that the same "is not capable of being used as
food by man, is suitable only for industrial purposes, is
not for food purposes, and is of such character or for

PITTSBURGH MELTING CO. v. TOTTEN.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

such a use that denaturing is impracticable." The regulation permits the shipment of oil for industrial uses after
it is "denatured," that is, treated with a substance which
renders it unfit for food, while still fit for use in industrial
purposes. The Melting Company refused to make this
certificate, which resulted in the notice to the Railroad
Company to refuse to carry the oil, and brought about
this suit to compel the carrier to receive and transport it.
The District Court found that the oil manufactured and
shipped by the Melting Company was not within the
terms of the act, as it was not a meat-food product, which
is prohibited from shipment without inspection. The
reasons for reaching that conclusion are set forth in the
opinion of the District Judge. 229 Fed. Rep. 214. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reached the opposite conclusion
upon the testimony adduced. 232 Fed. Rep. 694.
An examination of the record satisfies us that the Circuit Court of Appeals reached the right conclusion. The
oil, here in controversy, the testimony shows is generally
known as "oleo" oil, and is not "tallow" oil as that term
is generally understood by the trade. Both oily are made
from the fat of slaughtered beeves. Oleo oil by itself is
seldom used as a food. It is, however, largely used in the
manufacture of oleomargarine. In fact it constitutes a
large percentage of that product. It is used in cooking for
shortening purposes. Made as it is by the Melting Company it has no quality which prevents its use for such food
purposes. It is not a tallow oil, distasteful and unfit to
use in the making of food products. Without elaborating
the discussion, we reach the conclusion that this product
was clearly a "meat food product," within the meaning of
the statute. It is true that the Mclting (Thmpany does
not sell it as such, and now marks it as ,ixidlble." But
that does not change the fact that a main use of such oil is
in making edible products. The Company has io control
over the use of he oil after it is shipped, and the record

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Ctart

243 U. ,

does not disclose what use is made of a large percentage of
its product which was shipped abroad at the time this
action was begun.
The enactment of the statute was within the power of
Congress in order to prevent interstate and foreign shipment of impure or adulteyated meat-food products. The
statute does not specifically define a meat-i;o.,. product
In our view the product of the Melting Company is a
meat-food product in the sense of the use of those terms
in the statute, and as such subject to the regulations of the
Secretary of Agriculture. It being such meat-food product
the Melting Company could not truthfully claim that it
was not capable of being used as food by.man, and hence
could not make the certificate required.
The theory of the bill is that the product in quesuion was
not within the terms of the act; the District Court reached
the conclusion that this theory was the correct one, and so
rendered a decree which required the Railroad Company
to receive the oil for transportation in interstate and
foreign commerce, without inspection, when labeled
"inedible," and accompanied by the certificate of the
Melting Company that such oil is inedible and not in-*
tended for food purpdses and is of such a character that
denaturing is impossible or will render the oil unavailable
for the desired industrial use. This decree is consistent
only with the finding of the District Court that the
productwas not a meat-food product within the nieanidg
of the statute.
As we have said, we think the record shows., as found by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the oil made and offered
for shipment by the Melting Company was a meat.-food
product, and hence-subject to the regulation of the statute
requiring inspection before shipment. The decree requiring such oil to be shipped without, inspection was
properly reversed.

