OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U.S.

to his acceptance of. the lower compensation without
protest during the entire term of his service; nor need we
consider the effect, ofl§2 of the Act of July 31, 1894, c.
174, 28 Stat. 162, 205,. which provides that "no person
'who holds an office the salary or annual compensation
attached to which amounts to'the sum of two thousand
five hundred dollars shall be appointed to or hold any
other office to 'which compensation is attached unless
specially heretofore or hereafter spocially authorized
thereto by law."
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
A ffirmed.

PETRIE ET AL. v. NAMPA AND MERIDIAN,
IRRIGATION DISTRICT.
ERROR TO;THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No..47.

Argued November 19, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

Upon an appiication to an- idaha c9urt fa- approval of a prposed
contract for sale of water rights by the United States to an Irrigation District, and for sharing between thenri certain drainage expenses, landowners objected that the contract exceeded the powers
of. the United States, the Secretary of the Interior, and the District,
that its execution vould entail assessments on their land within the
District otherwise supplied with sufficient water for irrigation, and
that for this reason they would.be deprived of property without
due process of law, or compensation, in violation of the Fourteenth

Amendment. Held, that a federal question was presented. P. 157.
But, since the Idaho Supreme Court, while holding that the contract

would be valid and that its confirmation would not invade the
landowners' constitutional rights as claimed, also decided that
under the stite law the objection was premature for the reason that
such confirmation would not impose any burden upon their lands
until assessments should be made' upon them in subsequent pro-

PETRIE v. NAMPA &c. IRRIG. DIST.
154.

Opinion of the Court.

ceedings on the basis of benefits conferred, and upon full notice and
hearing with opportunity for plenary judicial review; Held, that
the judgment was based upon an independent, non-federal ground,
broad enough to support it, and that a writ of error from this court
must be dismissed. P. 158.
Writ of error to review 28 Idaho, 227, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Oliver 0. Haga, with whom Mr. J. B. Eldridge and
Mr. James H. Richards were on the briefs, for plaintiffs
in error.
Mr. B. E. Stoutemyer, with whom Mr. H. E. McElroy
and Mr. Will R. King were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

The Board of Directors of the Nampa and Meridian
Irrigation District, a quasi-municipal corporation, organized under the laws of Idaho (Pioneer Irrigation District v. Walker, 20 Idaho, 605; Colburn v. Wilson, 23
Idaho, 337), filed an amended petition in the District
Court of that State, praying for the examination, approval and confirmation by the court of a contract which
it desired to enter into with the United States Government acting through the Secretary of the Interior, which
provided that the United States should sell and the Irrigation District should purchase, and in the manner prescribed pay for, a supply of water to irrigate an extensive
tract of arid land within the District and to supplement
an insufficient supply, for other lands, which the District
had theretofore acquired from other sources. The proposed contract also provided that the United States and
the District should share in the expense of constructing
a system of drainage, to reclaim considerable areas of
land within the District which had become" water-logged"

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

through seepage from both the Government and the District systems of irrigation, and to prevent threatened
damage to other lands from such seepage.
The proceeding involved is prescribed by the state
statutes, which provide that when such a petition is
filed the court shall fix a day for hearing, and shall notify
the persons interested therein by publication, for four
weeks, in a newspaper published in the county. Any
persons interested in the subject-matter -nay demur to
or answer the petition, and the rules of pledding and practice prescribed in the Code of Civil Procedure of the State
(Idaho Revised Codes,. vol. I, title 14, c. 4, §§ 2397, 2398
and 2401) are made applicable.
The required notice having been given, the plaintiffs
in error, owners of lands within the Irrigation District,
filed an "answer and cross complaint" in which they
denied many allegations of the petition and affirmatively
alleged: That if the contract should be entered into they
would be obliged to pay an assessment of $75 upon each
acre of their land for water rights which they did not
require because they had a sufficient supply from other
sources; that neither the United States, nor the Secretary
of the Interior nor the Irrigation District had authority
under the laws of the United States. to enter into the contract and that, for these reasons, if it were approved and
entered into, the plaintiffs in error would be deprived of
their property without due process of law and without
'compensation, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. A permanent injunction was prayed for restraining the petitioners from entering into the proposed contract and from
levying assessments to carry it into effect.
The District Court approved the contract, upon a full
finding of facts, and its judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State in a judgment which we are
asked to review upon this writ of error.

PETRIE v. NAMPA &c. IIIRIG. DIST.
154.

Opinion of the Court.

A motion to dismiss the writ of error was postponed
until the hearing upon the merits which has now been had.
The statement which we have made of the issues presented by this record shows that the first ground of the
motion-that a federal question was not presented-can
not be sustained. Tregea v. Modesto Irrigation District,
164 U. S. 179, 185.
But the second ground of the motion to dismiss is valid,
viz: that, even if it be conceded that the Supreme Court
decided a federal question against the plaintiffs in error;
nevertheless, the court decided against them alsb upon an
independent ground, not involving any federal question
and broad enough to support the judgment, and for this
reason the federal question involved will not be considered on this writ of error, under a series of decisions by
this court extending at least from Klinger v. Missouri,
13 Wall. 257, 263, to Enterprise Irrigation District v.
Farmers Mutual Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 164.
While the State Supreme Court finds that the United
States, acting through the Secretary of the Interior,
could lawfully enter into the proposed contract and that
the approval and confirmation of it by the court would
not deprive the plaintiffs in error of their property without
due process of law or without compensation, yet the cOmrt
also holds that the "cross complaint," in which these
federal rights are asserted, was filed prematurely under
the statutes and practice of the State of Idaho, and that
no charge or burden would be imposed upon the lands of
the plaintiffs in error by the approval of the contract,
assuming that it should be executed. This for the reason
that the state statute provides that any assessments
upon such lands to carry into effect the purposes of the
contract must subsequently be made by the Board of
Directors of the Irrigation District on the basis of ben'efits conferred, at a meeting of the Board, to be held at a
time and place of which the owners of the lands to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

charged must :be notified by postal card and by newspaper
publication (Idaho Revised Codes, vol, I, title 14, c. 4,
§ 2400). At such meeting the land owner may object
to any proposed assessment on his land and if the objection is overruled by the Board,. and he'does not consent
to the assessment as finally determined, such objection
shall; without further proceeding, be regarded as appealed
to the .District Court and shall there again be heard in
proceedings to confirm the assessment. It is expressly
provided-that upon such hearing the court shall disregard
every error, irregularity or omission, which does hot affect
the substantial rights of any party and shall correct any
error which may be found in such assessment or any injustice which may result from it.
For this reason the court held that the claims stated in
the "cross complaint" were prematurely asserted, were
"wholly immaterial," to the inquiry presented by the
petition of the District, and "shpuld have been stricken
from the answer.' We cannot doubt that this conclusion
of the State Supreme Court, based as it is wholly on state
statutes and procedure, is broad enough to sustain the
judgment rendered, irrespective of the disposition of any
federal question involved, and therefore the writ of error
will be
Dismissed.

PURE OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF MINNESOTA.
ERROR T)

No. 74.

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

Argued November 21, 22,1918.-=-Decided December 9, 1918.

For the purpose of promoting the public safety and of protecting the
public from fraud and imposition, a State, in the absence of con-

flicting regulation by Congress, may provide for inspection of illu-

