182

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of thd-Court.

248 U. S.

DILLON v. STRATHEARN STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
CLAIMANT OF STEAMSHIP "ST4ATIHEARN."
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 301.

Argued November 5, 1918.-Decided December 23, 1918.

A cLrtifieate under Jud. Code, ยง 239, Rule 37, must state the facts
.pertin'ent to the questions certified, and this cannot be dispensed
witli by reference to the transcript and briefs in'the Circuit Court
t
of Appeals, whic are no part of the record in this court.
A certificate which faiis to comply with the rule in this respect must
be dismissed.
Certificate dismissed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. J. 'Waguespack and Mr. Silas B. Axtell for
Dillon.
Mr. Ralph James M. Bullowa; for Strathearn S. S. Co.,
submitted.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General 'Brown, with whom
Mr. Robert -Szold was on the brief, for the United States as
amicus curiao.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. Howard Thayer
Kingsbury, for the British Embassy as amicus curim,
submitted.
MR. JUSTICE DAy delivered the opinion of the court.

John Dillon, a British subject, filed a libel in admiralty
in the United States District Court for the Northern

'DILLON v. STRATHEARN S. S. CO.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

District of Florida in which he claimed the sum of $125.00,
alleged to be due him for wages as a carpenter on the
steamship "Strathearn." The District Court dismissed
the libel. 239 Fed. Rep. 583. An appeal was taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The
libel was filed under the provisions of ยง 4 of the Seaman's
Act of 1915, 38 Stat, 1164, 1165.1
The Circuit Court of Appeals certifies two' questions to

this court:
"First. Issection 4530 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, as the same was amended by section 4 of
the act of Congress, approved March 4, 1915, entitled
'An Act to promote the welfare of American seamen in the
merchant marine of the United States; to abolish arrest
and imprisonment as a penalty for desertion and to secure
the abrogation of treaty provisions in relation thereto; and
to promote safety at sea,' violative of the Constitution of
the United States?
"Second. Is section 4530 of the Revised Statutes of the
See. 4. That section forty-five hundred and thirty of the Revised
Statutes of the United States be, and is hereby, amended to read as
follows:
"'See. 4530. Every seaman on a vessel of the United States shall
be entitled to receive on demand from the master of the vessel to
which he belongs one-half part of the wages which he shall have then
earned at every port where such vessel, after the voyage has been coinmenced, shall load or deliver cargo before the voyage, is ended, and all
Litipulations in the contract to the contrary shall be void: ProwYded,
Such a demand shall not be made before the expirition of, nor oftener
than once in five cdtys. Any failure on the part of the master to comply
with this demand shall release the seaman from his contract and he
shall be entitled .to full payment of wages earned. And when the
voyage is ended every such seaman shall be entitled to the remainder
of the wages which shall then be due him, as provided in section fortyfive hundred and twenty-nine of the Revised Statutes: . . . And
provided further, That this ectioni shall apply to seamen on foreign
vessels while in harbors of the United States, and the courts of the
United States shall be open to such seamen for its enforcement.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

United States, as the same was amended by' the lastmentioned act of Congress, approved March 4, 1915,
violative of the Constitution of the United States in so
far as it provides 'That this section shall apply to seamen
on foreign vessels while in harbors of the United States,
and the courts of the United States shall be open to such
seamen for its enforcement?'"
The certificate is made under ยง 239 of the Judicial Code
which makes provision for the certification of questions of
law to this court from a Circuit Court of Appeals. The
section provides that this court may give instruction on
the questions certified, or it may order the whole record
sent up for consideration and decision. Rule 37 of this
court provides that in such cases the certificate shall contain a proper statement of the facts on which the questions
of law arise. The certificate in this case fails to comply
with this rule of court. It contains a partial statement of
Dillon's contract with the ship. It states that no part of
the sum sued for was due under the shipping articles signed
by Dillon. It does not state the terms of payment agreed
upon, when or where payments were to be made under
the contract, or what advancements, if any, were to be
made during the voyage. The certificate concludes: "For
information as to the facts of the case copies of the
transcript/and briefs are herewith transmitted." Counsel
argue the case by reference to the transcript of the record
in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and it is apparent that a
proper consideration of the case requires such reference.
This transcript is no part of our record. This court alone
has authority to have it sent up. The briefs in the Circuit Court of Appeals are no part of the record here. The
certificate is required to state the pertinent facts in order
that this-court may answer the questions of law certified
w' h reference to such facts, and not by searching the
records and briefs of the Circuit Court of Appeals itself.
The certificate therefore fails to comply with our rule,

SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
182.

Syllabus.

and in accordance With the established practice must be
dismissed. Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton R. R. Co. v.
McKeen, 149 U. S. 259, 261; Stratton's Independence v.

Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 422, and cases cited.
Dismissed.

SANDBERG ET AL. v. McDONALD, CLAIMANT
OF THE BRITISH SHIP "TALUS."
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 392.

Argued November 5, 1918.-Decided Decernbr 23, 1918.

Spction 11 of the Seaman's Act of 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164, prohibits,
under criminal penalties, the payment of wages in advance to any
seamanI
brovides that in no case shall such advancements absolve
vessel,'master or owner from full payment of wages when actually
earned, or be a defense to a libel-or action for their recovery; applies
"as well to foreign vessels while in waters of the United States, as to
vessels of the United States;" makes the master, owner, consignee,
or agent of any foreign vessel who violates its provisions liable to
the same penalty as if the vessel were domestic; and, requiring
exhibition of shipping -articles, denies clearance from our ports to
any vessel of'either class, unless the provisions of the section have
been complied with. Held, not to apply to advancements made
to alien seamen shipping abroad on a foreign vessel, pursuant to
contracts valid under the foreign law; and that such advancements
may be allowed for in paying such seame, in a port of the United
States. P. 195. A provision in this act for the abrogation of inconsistent treaty provisions is not opposed to the above corlstruction, since it may properly be referred to other parts of the act abolishing arrest for
desertion and conferring jurisdiction on our courts over wage controversies arising in our jurisdiction. P. 196.
The construction here adopted is the same as that adopted by the
State Department in consular instructions; and the reports and

