OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

sued to recover under the New Jersey Workmen's Compensation Act on account of her husband's death by drowning in the navigable waters of that State whilc employed
as a fireman on a tug boat.
The court held that as the accident occurred August 4,
1915, the Act of Congress approved October 6, 1917, c. 97,
40 Stat. 395, "saving
to claimants the rights
and remedies under the workmen's compensation law
of any State" was inapplicable, and that under the doctrine announced in Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244
U. S. 205, the rights of the parties depended upon the
maritime law of the United States.
There was no decision against the validity of a treaty
or statute of or an authority exercised under the United
States, nor in favor of the validity of a statute of or an
authority exercised under a State challenged because
of repugnance to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the
United States. Consequently, under the Act of September
6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, the writ of error was improperly sued out and must be
Dismissed.

J. HOMER FRITCH, INCORPORATED, ET AL. v.
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 64.

Argued November 19, 1918.-Decided January 20, 1919.

Judgments of the District Courts in suits against the United States
under the Tucker Act are reviewable directly and exclusively by this
court; the Judiciary Act of 1891, and the Judicial Code, did not disturb the exclusive jurisdiction as it previously existed. Ogden v.
United States, 148 U. S. 390, declared overruled. P. 459.

J. HOMER FRITCH, INC. v. UNITED STATES. 459
458.

Opinion of the Court.

An inadvertent assumption of jurisdiction is not equivalent to a decision that jurisdiction exists. P. 463.
234 Fed. Rep. 608; 236 Fed. Rep. 133, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward J. McCutchen and Mr. Ira A. Campbell,
for plaintiffs in error, submitted.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom
Mr. Charles S. Coffey was on the brief, for the United

States.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE

Wirm delivered the opinion of the

court.
Liability of the United States for the hire of a ship for
two charter periods was asserted. The trial court allowed
recovery for one period and rejected it for the other and
the court below affirmed its action. The case is here because of aheged error committed in not allowing for both.
The Government insists that we have no jurisdiction
because the judgment of the trial court was exclusively
susceptible of being reviewed directly by this court; hence,
that the court below had no jurisdiction and we must
reverse and remand with directions to dismiss for want of
jurisdiction. The contention is well founded, and we
might content ourselves with referring to the authorities
by which its correctness is conclusively, established. As,
however, some contrariety of opinion on the question is
manifested in the decisions of the lower federal courts
resulting either from a misconception of the governing
principle upon which the right of direct review rests, or,
it may be, caused by previous decisions of this court which
if unexplained may continue to be the source of misconception, we briefly review and dispose of the subject from
an original point of view.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

When the United States made claims against it justiciable by conferring authority upon the Court of Claims
to entertain and decide them, the grant was accompanied
by a provision giving this court direct and exclusive jurisdiction to review the judgments of the Court of Claims
rendered in the exercise of the new power given. When
by the Tucker Act (Act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat.
505) authority was conferred upon the circuit and district courts of the United States to exert, concurrently
with the Court of Claims, the power to decide claims
against the United States, the question arose whether
the judgments of those courts rendered in the exercise of
such jurisdiction were reviewable exclusively and directly
by this court.
Determining the principle by which the question was to
be solved, it was decided that in the absence of express
provision or necessary implication to the contrary, the
judgments of courts of the United States rendered as the
result of the new power would be subject to be reviewed
only by the exclusive method theretofore provided foi
the Court of Claims. Applying the principle of interpretation thus announced to the Tucker Act, it was held
that judgmeits of the courts of the United States in suits
against the United States under that act were reviewable
only directly by this court. United States v. Davis, 131
U. S. 36.
Early after the adoption of the Judiciary Act of 1891
(Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826) it was settled
that the purpose of that act was to generally provide for
and distribute the appellate power of the courts of the
United States. McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661; Lau Ow Bew,
v. United States, 144 U. S. 47; National Exchange Bank v.
Peters, 144 U. S. 570; Hubbard v. Soby, 146 U. S. 56. Subsequent to such decisions there was pending in this court a
case brought by the plaintiff below by direct appellate
proceedings to review the judgment of a circuit court of

J. HOMER FRITCH, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
458.

461

Opinion of the Court.

the United States, rejecting a claim against the United
States sued upon in that court as a court of claims. On
submission of a motion to dismiss or affirm, made by
the United States without brief or argument by the appellant, the case was dismissed for want of jurisdiction,,
based upon authorities which were cited, establishing that
the purpose of the Act of 1891 was to distribute the appellate power of the courts of the United States,-a ruling
which implied that direct review by this court of judgments
in suits against the United States rendered by the courts
of the United States as courts of claims was taken away
by the Act of 1891. Ogden v. United States, 148 U. S.390.
In the next year the case of Chase v. United States, 155
U. S.489, was decided. It came to this court on a direct
writ of error to a circuit court of the United States, acting
as a court of claims, to review a judgment rendered against
the United States. Jurisdiction was disputed, not upon
the ground that the power to review such a judgment by
direct appeal no longer existed because of the Act of 1891,
but upon the sole ground that procedure by writ of error
instead of appeal had been mistakenly restored to. The
contention was held unsound, jurisdiction was taken, and
the case was decided.
It is to be conceded that, either because of the implication resulting from the ruling in Ogden v. United States,
supra, or because of what was deemed to be the controlling
force of the accepted doctrine of the distribution of appellate power made by the Act of 1891, the opinion obtained in some of the lower federal courts that the direct
review by this court of judgments of courts of the United
States acting as courts of claims, which prevailed under
the Tucker Act, no longer existed, and that possibly these
impressions continued to make themselves manifest until
the error upon which they rested was demonstrated by the
decision of this court in Reid v. United States, 211 U. S.
529.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

In that case, acting upon the theory that the effect of
the distribution of appellate power made by the Act of
1891 controlled the previously existing right to review
judgments of the courts of the United States acting as
courts of claims, a case was brought directly to this court
under the assumed authority of the Act of 1891, which
case, because of its amount, would not have been susceptible of being brought here under the right to review
as existing prior to the Act of 1891. The case therefore
rendered it necessary to decide whether the general distribution of appellate power made by the Act of 1891 had
replaced the right to review previously existing as to judgments of the courts of the United States rendered under
the power to dispose of claims against the United States.
It was decided that it had not, and that the exceptional
remedy by direct and exclusive review as to the exceptional jurisdiction to entertain claims against the United
States remained unaffected by the general distribution
of appellate power made by the Act of 1891.
It is true, indeed, that in the Reid Case, as it was also
true in the Chase Case, no reference was made to the
previous ruling in Ogden v. United States, virtually holding
to the contrary; but, as we have previously pointed out,
there was nothing on the face of the opinion in that case
to direct attention to the fact that it concerned the continued existence of the exceptional jurisdiction to review
judgments resulting from the exercise of the exceptional
power to entertain claims against the United States,
since, on the face of the opinion and the authorities which
were referred to, that case dealt only with the operation
of the Act of 1891 upon the general distribution of appellate power. And when the subject is scrutinized, there
can be no room whatever for difference of opinion that
the effect of the ruling in Reid v. United States was to
overrule the Ogden Case. That result is made, if possible,
more clearly manifest by the application of the ruling in

J. HOMER FRITCH, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
458.

463

Opikion of the Court.

the Reid Case made by this court in subsequent cases.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 225
U. S. 640; United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1; Thames &
Mersey Marine Ins. Co. v. United States, 237 U. S. 19;
United Sidles v. Emery, Bird, 'Thayer Realty Co., 237
U. S. 28; United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316; United
States v. Kelly, 243 U. S. 316; Tweedie Trading Co. v.
United States, 245 U. S. 645.
But it is true to say that in the case of United States v.
Buffalo Pitts Co., 234 U. S. 228, decided subsequent to
the decision of the Reid Case, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals to review the action of a district
court when sitting as a court of claims was recognized
by entertaining and deciding appellate proceedings to
review the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals in such
case. It is to be observed, however, that in that case no
question whatever was raised as to the jurisdiction, and in
view of the ruling in the Reid Case, to which no reference
was made, the action of this court in the Buffalo Pitts
Case must be regarded as a mere inadvertent assumption
of jurisdiction rather than as a decision that such jurisdiction existed.
It is now insisted however that, granting the conclusive
effect of the Reid Case, it is here inapplicable because
decided before the adoption of the Judicial Code by which,
it is contended, a change was made taking away the exceptional power to directly review which is here in question. The contention disregards the necessary result of
the rulings in the cases just referred to, decided since the
Reid Case, some of which disposed of controversies governed by the Judicial Code, and where the proposition
now relied uponas to the assumed operation of that act
was directly pressed in argument.
Aside from this view, however, the proposition disregards the plain context of §§ 294 and 295 of the Judicial
Code, which were clearly intended to prevent implica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

tions of repeal, or change of legislative intent, like the one
here -relied upon. United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316,
331. But it is said that the contention as to the change
made by the Code is not based upon implication but
upon the fact that § 9 of the Tucker Act was expressly repealed by the Judicial Code, thus removing the very
groundwork upon which the continued right in this court
to exclusively review judgments of the courts of the United
States when sitting as courts of claims was held to continue
after the Tucker Act. The assumption however is fallacious, since it overlooks the fact that § 4 of the Tucker
Act was excepted from the repealing clause and that its
provisions are wholly incompatible, with the proposition
now relied upon. And this again brings the proposition
back to the mere assertion that the ruling as tW46 Tucker
.the Act
*Act made in United States v. Davis, and that asto
of 1891 made in the Reid Case, must now be disregarded.
As it results that the contention of the United States
as to the want of jurisdiction in the court below was well
founded, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be and it is
Ieversed and the cause remanded to that court with directions to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.

