SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
182.

Syllabus.

and in accordance With the established practice must be
dismissed. Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton R. R. Co. v.
McKeen, 149 U. S. 259, 261; Stratton's Independence v.

Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, 422, and cases cited.
Dismissed.

SANDBERG ET AL. v. McDONALD, CLAIMANT
OF THE BRITISH SHIP "TALUS."
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 392.

Argued November 5, 1918.-Decided Decernbr 23, 1918.

Spction 11 of the Seaman's Act of 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164, prohibits,
under criminal penalties, the payment of wages in advance to any
seamanI
brovides that in no case shall such advancements absolve
vessel,'master or owner from full payment of wages when actually
earned, or be a defense to a libel-or action for their recovery; applies
"as well to foreign vessels while in waters of the United States, as to
vessels of the United States;" makes the master, owner, consignee,
or agent of any foreign vessel who violates its provisions liable to
the same penalty as if the vessel were domestic; and, requiring
exhibition of shipping -articles, denies clearance from our ports to
any vessel of'either class, unless the provisions of the section have
been complied with. Held, not to apply to advancements made
to alien seamen shipping abroad on a foreign vessel, pursuant to
contracts valid under the foreign law; and that such advancements
may be allowed for in paying such seame, in a port of the United
States. P. 195. A provision in this act for the abrogation of inconsistent treaty provisions is not opposed to the above corlstruction, since it may properly be referred to other parts of the act abolishing arrest for
desertion and conferring jurisdiction on our courts over wage controversies arising in our jurisdiction. P. 196.
The construction here adopted is the same as that adopted by the
State Department in consular instructions; and the reports and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioners.

248 U. S.

proceedings attending the legislation in Congress, so far as they
may be considered, do not reqlire a different conclusion. P. 197.
248 Fed. Rep. 670, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alex. T. Howard for petitioners:
It was the broad purpose of Congress to grant to the
seaman personal liberty and to prohibit as to all vessels
that came within our jurisdiction the evil of paying the
seaman his wages in advance and thereby to promote
Lhe welfare of the American merchant marine and the
American seaman by an equalization of wages.
The language of the act is broad enough to cover sucn
an advance, and even if this were not the case the payment of such an advance ought not to be upheld by an
American court, when it is passing upon the civil rights
of the parties with the res before it, because so clearly.
opposed to our public policy. Senate Doc. No. 228,
65th Cong., 2d sess.; 41st Aim. Report, Legal Aid Society.
The legislative history of the act shows that its purpose
was to equalize wages. Report No. 645, 62d Cong., 2d
sess., p. 7; id. pt. 2, pp. 2, 3, 5; Report No. 852, 63d Cong.,
2d sess., pp. 19, 20.
By changing § 11 of the bill so as to make it apply "as
well to foreign vessels as to vessels of the United States"
instead of merely "to seamen engaged in ports of the
United States for service on foreign vessels," Congress
showed its purpose to prohibit advances to the full extent and thereby to equalize wage- and to make possible
the enforcement of the other humane provisions of the act.
The language is unambiguous and should be given its
ordinary meaning. It was erroneous to limit the construction of the section by constraining the civil, to the
same field as the criminal provisions. United States v.
Twenty-five Packages of Hats, 231 U. S.358.

. SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
185.

Argument for Petitioners.

Mr. W. J. Waguespack for petitioners:
The penalty provision of the statute under the rule of

construction in United States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117,
is within the scope of legislative authority. The intent
that § 11 should apply to foreign vessels when they enter
into the ports of the United States to load and unload
cargo, and while they remain in the waters of the United'

States, is manifest, for the statute provides that any
master or owner of a foreign vessel who has violated this
provision shall be liable for the penalty.
It is obvious that § 11 forms part of the general plan
which Congress has mapped out to elevate and better
the condition of American seamen, to secure a higher,
standard of service, and to benefit the American merchant
marine by equalizing the costs of operation between our
ships and those of other nations, for, as said by this
court in The Eudora, 190 U. S.169, "no one can doubt
that the best interests of seamen as a class are preserved
by such legislation."
The immediate purpose which Congress had in view in
adopting this criminal provision was evidently to prohibit
the entry into the ports of the United States of vessels with
seamen who were victims of "crimps," as they are called,

and who, having been paid advance wages, stood in a
sfate of continuous involuntary servitude, to the end

that discrimination against American seamen, and American shipowners, might be avoided.
The penalty provision of the statute and the civil provision are separable and it is obvious that Congress would
have enacted the legislation with the penalty provision
eliminated. McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102;

Railroad Co. v. Schutt&, 103 U. S. 118; James v. Bowman,
190 U. S. 127; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Kentucky,
179 U. S. 388; New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102.
Assuming that no special policy against the :naking- of
advances against foreign seamen in a foreign port can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Respondent.

248 U. S.

deduced from § 11,: still a public policy against making
ouch advances everywhere can be deduced from the fa t
that it would operate injuriously against the general
interest and policy of our own citizens. Bank v. Owens,
2 Pet. 527-538; Woodward v. Roane, 23 Arkansas, 523;,
Marshall v. Sherman, 148 N. Y. 9; Hill v. Spear, 50 N.
;H. .253; The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263.
The court erred in concluding that libelants were deserters, and in decreeing their wdges forfeited.
Mr. Palmer Pillans,with whom Mr. J. N. McAleer was
on the brief, for the ship, reviewed the prior legislation,
and held that, so far as the matter in question was concerned, no new purpose was evinced by the present act.
The section, as in previous laws, applied only to advancements made in our own waters. It should be taken with
the old construction. They cited and discussed the following: The State of Maine, 22 Fed. Rep. 734; The Windrush,
250 Fed. Rep. 180; The Elswick Tower, 241 Fed. Rep 706,
710; Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169, 178, 179;
American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347,
357; United States-v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117, 120; Kenney v. 'Blake, 125 Fed. Rep. 672; The Alnwick, 132 Fed.
Rep. 117; The Neck, 138 Fed. Rep. 144, 146; The Bound
Brook, 146 Fed. Rep. 160, 162; The Kestor, 110 Fed. Rep.
432, 434, 438, 441, 442, 444; The Troop, 117 Fed. Rep.
557, 560; The Meteor, 241 Fed. Rep. 735; The London,
241 Fed. Rep. 863; affirming 238 Fed. Rep. 645; The Antelope, 10 Wheat. 66; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Babcock,
154 U. S. 198.
There is necessarily and tacitly attached to every enactment declaring a particular act unlawful the idea that
the aet shall be one committed- within the sovereignty
of the sovereign making the enactment. Such must be
the case here.. As the United States could not make it
unlawful for a British master to pay seamen on a British

SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
185.

Argument of United States as amicus curim.

ship advance wages in Great Britain it is only reasonable
to intend that the act, with this idea in mind, not only
may be, but must be read thus: "That it shall be and is
hereby made unlawful in any case to pay any seaman
wages (anywhere within the territorial jurisdiction of
the United States) in advance of the time," etc. It ought
to be manifest, that the words "in any case" do not mean
"in any place" or "anywhere," but do mean "under
any set of circumstances that may arise when advance
payments are made within the territorial jurisdiction of
the United States." American Banana Co. v. United
Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347, 357. 'And see United States v.
Freeman, 239 U. S. 117, 120.
It should be noted that it is not the payment of advance wages, without more, that it is declared shall ii
no case absolve the vessel, but the payment of "si'ch
advance wages," that shall in no case absolve, etc. What
does the "such" refer to? Unlawful advancements, of
course, and no advancements are such unlawful advancements unless they are made within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom
Mr. Robert Szold was on the brief, for the United States
as amicus curie:
The evil sought to be remedied was the handicap of
higher wage cost under which the then decadent American
merchant marine was laboring. President's Message of
December 7, 1903; Report of Merchant Marine Commission, January 4, 1905 (39 Cong. Rec., pt. 1, pp. 437'
439; Senate Report No. 2755, 58th Cong., 3d sess.)
Annual Report, Commissioner of Navigation, 1915, p. 159
Act of June 26, 1884, c. 1.21; 23 Stat. 53, § 20.
The legislative purpose to equalize the wage cost of
foreign and domestic vessels leaving our ports was accomplished by liiaiting the enforcement of foreign contracts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.,
Opinion of the Court.

248 U.

The deliberate intent to cover contracts made abroad
is shown by the committee reports and legislative history.
House Report No. 645, 62d Cong., 2d-sess.; House Report
No. 852, 63d Cong., 2d sess.; H.4R. 23673, 62d Cong.,
2d sess., 48 Cong. Rec., pp. 5242, 9259, 9429, 9431, 9432,
9434, 9435, 9502, 9503; Report Commissioner of Navigation, 1906, pp. 64, 92 49 Cong. .Rec., pt. 5, pp. 4567, 4588,
4806, 4854; 50 Cong. Rec. 5749; 52 Cong. Rec. 4646.
A reading of the act as a whole also shows this intent.
Section 4 is valid as a condition upon the entry of foreign
Vessels
into American ports. The power to impose
such
conditions is an incident to the sovereignty of the nation.
Vattel, Law of Nations (Chitty, ed. 1863), p. 40; Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169; Oceanic Steam Navigalion Co. v. Stranahan,214 U. S. 320; Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. .470, 492, 493; Weber v. Freed, 239 U. S. 325,
329; Turner v. Williams, 194 U. S.279, 289.
It seems clear in this case that Congress was seeking
to impose the wage requirement as a condition to the
entry of foreign vessels. Oceanic Steam Navigation Co. v.
Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320; Patterson v. Bark Eudora,
190 U. S. 169.
The statute declares a rule of policy of the forum forbidding the enforcement of such contracts. The Kensington, 183 U. S.263; Fonseca v. Cunard S. S. Co., 153 Massachusetts,. 553.
There is no question of the validity with respect to
contracts executed between foreign seamen and foreign
masters within the United States
MR. JusTIcE D.A-Y delivered the opinion of the court.
.This case brings before us for consideration certain
features of the so-called "Seaman's Act." (38 Siat.
1164.) The act is entitled: "An Act To promote the
welfare of American seamen in the merchant marine of

SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
18.5.

Opinion of the Court.

the United' States; to abolish arrest and imprisonment as
a penalty for desertion and to secure the abrogation of
treaty provisions in relation thereto; and to promote
safety at sea." It contains numerous provisions intended
to secure better treatment of seamen, and to secure for
them better conditions of service.
The libel charges a demand in Mobile, Alabama, for
one-half part of the wages then earned by the seamen,
and the refusal of the master to pay the amount which
the libelants claimed, to be due. The master paid each
of them what he conceived to be .due, deducting certain
advances made to the men at Liverpool, England, where
the seamen were signed.
The facts are:
The "Talus" is a British ship and the libelants and
petitioners citizens or subjects of nations other than the
United States and at the time of employment by the ship
and before boarding her they received certain advances
at Liverpool by the ship or its agents, a practice usual
and customary and not forbidden by the laws of Great,
Britain. The advance did not, as to any libelant, exceed
the amount of a month's wages.
The libelants boarded. the ship at Dublin, Ireland,
December 1, 1916, and remained in her service until they
left her at Mobile, Alabama.
The ship arrived in American waters on February 11,
1917, off Fort Morgan, from whence she proceeded immediately to Mobile, where she remained until after
February 24, and unloaded and loaded cargoes. During
the voyage and at Mobile prior to February 22, libelants
received certain payments from the ship in cash and in
articles purchased from it.
On February 22 libelants demanded of the master of
the' ship bayment of one-half of the wages earned by
them to that date. The piaster then paid to them a sum
which, with the cash paid them and the price of the articles

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

purchased as stated above, together with the advances
made in Liverpool, equaled or exceeded the one-half of
the wages then earned by each of them from the commencement of his service for the ship. It was less, however, than such one-half wages if the advances at Liverpool had not been included in the credits. The master
claimed that those advances should be deducted from
the one-half wages, and did deduct them, and the sum
or sums paid by the master to the libelants exceeded the
amount of wages earned by them for the eleven days
the ship had been in American waters. The libelants
quit the ship February 24, 1917, and were logged as
deserters on the same day.
Under the foregoing statement of facts the question
for decision is: Was the master entitled to make deduction from the seamen's pay. in the amount of the advancements made at Liverpool? The District Court held that
these advancements could not be deducted. 242 Fed.
Rep. 954. The Circuit Court of Appeals reached the
opposite conclusion. 248 Fed. Rep. 670. The pertinent
section of the act for consideration reads:
"'SEc. 10 (a) That it shall be, and is hereby, made
unlawful in any case to pay any seaman wages in advance
of the time when he has actually earned the same, or to
pay such advance wages, or to make any order, or note,
or other evidence of indebtedness therefor to any other
person, or to pay any'person, for the shipment of seamen
when payment is deducted or to be deducted from a seaman's wages. Any person violating any Of the foregoing
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be puinished
by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100, and
may also be imprisoned for a period of not exceeding
six months, at the discretion of the court. The payment
of such advance wages or allotment shall in no case except
as herein provided absolve the vessel or the master or the

SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
185.

Opinion of the Court.

owner thereof from the full payment of wages after the
same shall have been actually earned, and shall be no
defense to a libel suit or action for the recovery of such
wages. If any person shall demand or receive, either
directly or indirectly, from any seaman or other person
seeking employment, as seaman, or from any person on
his behalf, any remuneration whatever for providing him
with employment, he shall for every such offense be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be imprisoned
not more than six months or fined not more than $500.
"'(e) That this section shall apply as well to foreign
vessels while in waters of the United States, as to vessels
of the United States, and any master, owner, consignee,
or agent of any foreign vessel who has violated its provisions shall be liable to the same penalty that the master,
owner, or agent of a vessel of the United States would
be for similar violation.
"'The master, owner, consignee, or agent of any vessel
of the United States, or of any foreign vessel seeking
clearance from a port of the United States, shall present
his shipping articles at the office of clearance, and no
clearance shall, be granted any such vessel unless the
provisions of this section have been complied with.'"
The genesis and history of this legislation are found in
U. S. Compiled Statutes, 1916, vol. 7, § 8323, annotated.
The Dingley Act of 1884 (23 Stat. 55, 56), which is the
origin of this section, contains terms much like those
found in this act. That statute, as the present one, in
the aspect now before us, was intended to prevent the
evils arising from advanced payments to seamen, and to
protect them against a class of persons who took advantage of their necessities and through whom vessels were
obliged to provide themselves with seamen. These persons obtained assignments of the advanced wages of
sailors. -In many instances this was accomplished with

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

little or no service to the men who were obliged to obtain
employment through such agencies. In the Dingley Act
it was made unlawful to pay seamen's wages before leaving
the port at which he was engaged. In the present act it
is made unlawful to pay seamen's wages in advance of
the time when he has actually earned the same. The
Act of 1884 by its terms applied as well to foreign vessels
as to the vessels of the United States, and masters of
foreign vessels violating the law were refused clearance
from any port of the United States. The present statute
is made to apply as well to foreign vessels while in the
waters of the United States as to vessels of the United
States.
In the present statute, in the section from which we
have just quoted, masters, owners, -consignees, or owners
of foreign vessels are made liable to the same penalties
as are the like persons in case of vessels ofi the United
States. Such persons in case the vessels are those of the
United States or foreign vessels, seeking clearance in
ports of the United States, axe required to present their
shipping articles at the office of clearance' and no clearance is permitted unless the provisions of the statute are
complied with.
The Act of 1884 came before the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York in the case
of The State of Maine, 22 Fed. Rep. 734. In a clear and
well-reasoned opinion by Judge Addison Brown the law
was held not to apply to the shipment of seamen on
American vessels in foreign ports. After some amendments in 1898, not important to consider in this connection, the matter came before this court in the case of
Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169, and it was, held
to apply to a British vessel shipping seamen at an American port, and, furthermore, that the act, as thus applied
to a foreign vessel in United States waters, was constitutional.

SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
185.

Opinion of the Court.

While the Seaman's Act of 1915 contains many provisions for the amelioration of, conditions as to employment and care of seamen, In the aspect now involved we
have called attention to the state of legislation and
judicial decision when that act was passed. Did Congress
intend. to make invalid the contracts of foreign seamen
so far as advance payment of wages is concerned, when
the contract and payment were made in a foreign country
where the law sanctioned such contract and payment?
Conceding for the present puipose that Congress might
have legislated to annul such contracts as a eondition
upon which foreign vessels might enter the ports of the
United States, it is to be noted, that such sweeping and
important requirement is not found specifically made in
the statute. Had Congress intended to make void such
contracts and payments a few words would have stated
that intention, not leaving such an important regulation
to be gathered from implication. There is nothing to
indicate an intention, so far as the language of the statute
is concerned, to control such matters otherwise than in
the ports of the United States. The statute makes the
payment of advance wages unlawful and affixes penalties
for its violation, and provides that such advancements
shall in no cases, except as in the act provided, absolve
the master from full payment after the wages are earned,
and shall be no defense to a libel or suit for wages. How
far was this intended to apply to foreign vessels? We
find the answer if we look to the language of the act
itself. It reads that this section shall apply to foreign
vessels "while in waters of the United States."
Legislation is presumptively territorial and confined
to limits over which the law-making power has jurisdiction. American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co. 213
U. S. 347, 357. In Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, supra, this
court declared such legislation as to foreign vessels in
United States ports to be constitutional. We think that

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

there is nothing in this section to show that Congress
intended to take over the control of such contracts and
payments as to foreign vessels except while they were in
our ports. Congress could not prevent the making of
such contracts in other jurisdictions. If they saw fit to
do so, foreign countries would continue to permit such
contracts and advance payments no matter what our
declared law or policy in regard to them might be as to
vessels coming to our ports.
In the same section, which thus applies the law to
foreign vessels while in waters of the United States, it is
provided that the master, owner, consignee, or agent of
any such vessel, who violates the provisions of the act,.
shall be liable to the same penalty as would be persons of
like character in respect to a vessel of the United States.
This provision seems to us of great importance as evidencing the legislative intent to deal civilly and criminally with matters in our own jurisdiction. Congress
certainly did not intend to punish criminally acts done
within a foreign jurisdiction; a purpose so wholly futile
is not to be attributed to Congress. United States v.
Freeman, 239 U. S. 117, 120. The criminal provision
strengthens the presumption that Congress intended to
deal only with acts committed within the jurisdiction of
the United States.
It is true the act provides for the abrogation of inconsistent treaty provisions, but this, provision has ample
application treating the statute to mean what we have
here held to be its proper construction. It abolishes the
right of arrest for desertion. It gives to the civil courts
of the United States jurisdiction over wage controversies
arising within our jurisdiction. These considerations
amply account for the treaty provision. See Treaties in
Force, ed. 1904, index, p. 969.
It is said that the advances in foreign ports are against
the policy of the United States and, therefore, not to be

SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
185.

McKENNA, HOLMES, BRANDEIS, and CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

sanctioned here. As we have construed this section of
the statute, no such policy as to foreign contracts legal
where made, is declared.
We have examined the references in the briefs of counsel to the reports and proceedings in Congress during the
progress of this legislation so far as the same may have
weight in determining the construction of this section of
the act. We find nothing in them, so far as entitled to
consideration, which requires a different meaning to be
given the statute. We may add that the construction
now given has the sanction of the Executive Department
as shown in Instructions to Consular Officers, promulgated through the medium of the State Department.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Appeals
reached the right conclusion as to the meaning and interpretation of this section of the act, and its judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, with whom concur MR. Jusand MR. JUSTICE

ricE HOLMES, MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS
CLARKE, dissenting.

This is a libel in admiralty under the Seamen's Act of
1915 (38 Stat. 1164-1168), especially involving § 11.
The libel was filed by petitioners here and others. It
was dismissed as to the latter and they have acquiesced
in the judgment. The facts are set out in the opinion of
Lhe court.
With this case were submitted others that present the
act of Congress in different aspects. Among these was
No. 361 [Dillon v. Strathearn S. S. Co., ante, 182].

It

was a libel by a seaman who had shipped on a British
vessel and was based on a demand for wages not due at
the time of the demand under the terms of the shipping
articles signed by him. Section 4 of the act, infra, was
especially involved in consideration and its constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
McKENNA, HOLMES, BEANDEIS, and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting. 248 U. S.

tionality was attacked by the ship. The Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, to which the case had
gone, presented the question to this court in two aspects,
first generally, and, second, more particularly that provision which makes the section "apply to seamen on
foreign vessels while in harbors of the United States."
In the present case the ship is also British and the
libelants and petitioners citizens or subjects of nations
other than the United States, and the controversy is as
to the right of the master to deduct from the wages, of
which the law authorize's the demand, advances made to
the seamen in Liverpool, England. To make such advances was a practice ,usual and customary and not forbidden by English law. It would seem, therefore that
the constitutional question is as much involved in one case
as in the other. But under the court's construction of the
act that question can be pretermitted. Under our construction it would seem to be not only of ultimate but
of first insistence. The court, however, is of opinion that
the question of the constitutionality of the act was not
certified in such manner as to be subject to its consideration. From that conclusion we are not disposed to dissent
and shall assume, 'as the court does, that the legislation
iz valid and pass to its consideration.
The instant case, the facts not being in dispute, is
brought to the question of the right of the master to deduct the Liverpool advances,, the ship asserting the right
and the 'libelants denying it. The solution of the question necessarily depends upon the construction of the act,
or, more precisely, its application. It is conceded, yielding
to the authority of. Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S.
169, that the act applies to American seamen shipping
in an Azierican port upon foreign vessels, but it is contended from that case and other cases that it ought "to
seem plain on principle and authority that the advancements statute has no effect except upon advancements

SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
185. MCKENNA, HOLMES,

BRANDEIS,

and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

made to seamen within the territorial jurisdiction of the
United States." And, indeed, it is insisted that Congress
"ex industria in terms confined the application to the
waters of the United States." The conclusions are deduced 'from the cases which are reviewed and the language
of the-act is quoted. We give the quotation as it amplifies
the contentions:
"That this section shall apply as well to foreign vessels
while in waters -)f the United States [counsels' emphasis],
as to vessels of the United States, and any master, owner,
consignee, or agent of any foreign vessel who has violated
its provisions shall be liable to the same penalty that the
master,, owner, or agent of a vessel of the United States
would be for similar violation.
"The master, owner, consignee, or agent of any vessel
of the United States, or of any foreign vessel seeking
clearance from a port of the United States, shall present
his shipping articles at the office of clearance1, and no
clearance shall be granted any such vessel unless the provisions of this section have been complied with."The quotation is but a part of § 11.1 It is preceded 'by
1 Section 11 was an amendment of § 24 of the Act of December 21,
1898, and § 24 was an amendment of § 10 of the laws of 1884 as amended
in 1886, and, as it now stands as far as pertinent, is as follows:
"Sec. 10 (a) That it shall be, and is hereby, made unlawful in any

case to pay any seaman Wages in advance of the time 'when he has
actually earned the same, or to pay such advance wages, or to make
any order, or note, or other evidence of indebtedness therefor to any
other person, or to pay any person, for the shipment of seamen when
payment is deducted or to be deducted from a seaman's wages. Any
person violating any of the foregoing provisions of this section shall
be, deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100, and may
also be imprisoned for a period of not exceeding six months, at the
discretion of the court. The payment of such advance wages or allotment shall in no case excelit as herein provided absolve the vessel
or the master or the owner thereof from the full payment of wages
after the same shall have been actually earned, and shall be no defense

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MCKENNA, HOLMES, BRANDEIS, and CLARKE,

JJ., dissentig.. 248 U. S.

the explicit declaration that it is "unlawful in any case
to pay any seaman wages in advance of the time when
he has actually earned the same, or to pay such advance
wages." There is no limitation of place or circumstances
and the universality of the declaration is given emphasis
and any implication of exception is precluded with
tautological care by the provision that "the payment of
such advance wages or allotment shall in no case except
as herein provided absolve the vessel or the master or
the owner thereof from the full payment of wages after
the same shall have .been actually earned, and shall be
no defense to a libel guit or action for the recovery of such
wages." To qualify these provisions or not to take them
for what they say, would, in our opinion, ascribe to the act
an unusual improvidence of expression. And § 4 should
be considered in connection. It is hence important that
we give it in full. And it may be said that it is an amendment to § 4530, Rev. Stats. It is as follows:
"'Sec. 4530. Every seaman on a vessel of the United
States shall be entitled to receive and demand from the
master of the vessel to which he belongs one-half part
of the wages which he shall have then earned at every
port where such vessel, after the voyage has been commenced, shall load or deliver cargo before the voyage is
ended and all stipulations in the contract to the contrary
shall be void: Provided, Such a demand shall not be made
before the expiration of, nor oftener than once in five days.
Any failure on the part of the master to comply with this
demand shall release the seaman from his contract and
to a libel suit or action for the recovery of such wages. If any person
shall demand or receive, either directly or indirectly, from any seaman
or other person seeking employment, as seaman, or from any person
on his behalf, any remuneration whatever for providing him with
employment, he shall for every such offense be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be imprisoned not more than six months or
fined not more than $500."

SANDBERG i,. McDONALD.
185.

McKENNA, HOLMES, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

he shall be entitled to full payment of wages earned.
And when the voyage is ended every such seaman shall
be entitled to the remainder of the wages which, shall
then be due him, as provided in section forty-five hundred
and twenty-nine of the Revised Statutes: . . . And
provided further, That this section shall apply to seamen
on foreign vessels while in harbors of the United States,
and the courts of the United States shall be open to such
seamen for its enforcement.'"
This section and the others we have quoted express
something more than particular relations of ship and seaman; they express the policy of the United States which
no private conventions, no matter where their locality of
execution, can be adduced to contravene. The Kensington, 183 U. S.263; United States v. Chavez, 228 U. S.525;
United States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117. Nor are we
called upon to assign the genesis of the policy or trace
the evolution of its remedy to the act in controversy; and
besides it has been done elsewhere. It is enough to say
that the act itself :demonstrates that it is intended as a
means in the development of the merchant marine and it
hardly needs to be added, to quote counsel for the Government, "that the welfare of the seaman is remarkably interrelated with that of the merchant marine." This certainly was the conception of Congress and answers the
contentions based on contrary opinion 'and deductions.
It is manifest also from the title of the act, which declares
its purpose to be "To promote the welfare of American
seamen in the merchant marine of the United States;
to abolish arrest and imprisonment as a penalty for
desertion and to secure the abrogation of treaty provisions in relation thereto; and to promote safety at sea."
Its efficacy as a means or the policy of the means is not
submitted to our judgment. Ours is the simple service
of interpretation, and there is no reason to hesitate in its
exercise because of supposed consequences. The policy

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

MCKENNA, HoisEs, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting. 248 U. S.

of the act was so insistent that Congress did not hesitate
to abrogate opposing treaties. Certainly, therefore, wecannot give a controlling force to the suggestion that to
construe the act as the ship construes it and others,
supporting the ship, construe it, is to "impose our conception of the rights of seamen upon the whole world in violation of the comity of nations." The reply is immediate:
It was for Congress to estimate this and other results
and to consider how far they were counterpoised or overcome by other considerations. -If the section was ambiguous the asserted results might be invoked to resolve
its meaning; but we do not think it is ambiguous.
It must be conceded, indeed, it is conceded, that the
words of the sections are grammatically broad enough to
include all seamen, foreign as well as American, and advances and contracts, wherever made, and to the contention that Congress had in mind and was only solicitous for
American seamen, the answer is again immediate: The
contention would take us from the certainty of language
to the uncertainties of construction dependent upon the
conjecture of consequences; take us from the deck to the
sea, if,,we may use a metaphor suggested by our subject.
Language is the safer guide, for it may be defined; consequences brought forward to modify its meaning may be
in fact and effect disputed-foreseen, it may be, and accepted as necessary to the achievement of the purpose of
the law. And the purpose is resolute, has been maintained
for many years with increasing care, and the ship, being
in the waters of the United States, not the nationality of
the seamen, selected as its test. And lest there might be
impediment in treaties, they are declared, so far as they
impede, to be abrogated.
But authority may be adduced against the contentions.
In Patterson v. Bark Eudora, supra, the Seamen's Act
came under consideration, and it was contended, as it is
contended now, that the title determined against the body

SANDBERG v. McDONALD.
185.

MCKENNA,

HoiLi~s,

BRANDEIS,

and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

of the act and that therefore the act did not apply to
foreigfi vessels notwithstanding its explicit words. The
contention was declared untenable and the reasoning of
the court exhausts discussion on that and the other contentions as to the purpose and power of Congress. Of the
first it was said that it was to protect sailors against certain
wrongs practiced upon them, one of the most common
being the advancement of wages; of the second it was said,
quoting Chief Justice Marshall: "The jurisdiction of the
nation, within its own territory, is necessarily exclusive
and absolute; it is susceptible of no limitation, not imposed by itself." The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116. The
nationality of the seamen does not appear, but the vessel
was foreign, and the application of the statute to the latter
constituted the ground of controversy.
Of course, the language of an act, though universal, may
find limitation in the jurisdiction of the legislature; but
certainly a ship within the harbors of the United States is
within the jurisdiction of the United States, and making
its exercise "apply to seamen on foreign vessels," and
"the courts of the United States
..
open to such
seamen for its enforcement" was the judgment of Congress of the way to promote its purpose.
These considerations, we think, answer as well
other
contentions, that is, that the act "should be construed as
applicable only to seamen shipped in an American port on
vessels which remain for a time in or afterwards return to
an American port to load or deliver cargo" or "to seamen
of American nationality upon foreign or domestic vessels,
irrespective of the port of shipment."
It is enough to say of the contentions, in addition to
what has been said, that they impose on the statute
qualifications and limitations precluded by its words and
the purpose they express. There is a great deal, said, and
ably said, upon these contentions and the more pretentious
one that the 'act would violate the Constitution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
MCKENNA, HOLMES, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting. 248 U. S.

United States unless so "construed as not to apply to
foreign seamen shipped on a foreign vessel in a foreign

"'
-port, under a, contract, valid where made .
We cannot concede the qualification nor doubt the
power of Congress to impose conditions upon foreign
vessels entering or remaining in the harbors of the United
States. And we think that the case of The Eudora declares
the grounds of decision. Its principle is bro- ler than its
instance and makes the vessel and its locality in the waters
of the United States the test of the application of the act
and not the nationality of the seamen nor their place of
shipment, nor contravening convention , and precludes
deductions of advances.
Nor is' there obstacle in the penal provisions of the act.
They may be distributively applied and such application
has many examples in legislation. It is justified,by the
rule of reddendo singula singulis. By it words and provisions are referred to their appropriate objects, resolving
confusion and accomplishing the intent of the law against,
it may be, -astrict grammatical construction. United
States v. Simms, 1 Cranch, 252; Commonwealth v. Barber,
143 Massachusetts, 560; Quinn v. Lowell Electric Light
Corp., 140 Massachusetts, 106. The Seamen's Act especially invokes the application of the rule. The act applies
to foreign vessels as explicitly and as circumstantially as
it does to domestic vessels. Let the foreign vessel be in
the waters of the United States and every provision of the
act hpplies P6 it as far as it can apply. In other words, it
gives the right to a seaman on a foreign vessel to demand
from the master one-half part of the wages which he shall
have earned at every port and makes void all stipulations
to the contrary. And the remedy of the seaman in such
case is made explicit. If his demand be refused ("failure
on the part of the master to comply" are the words of the
act) the seaman is released from his contract and he is
entitled to the full payment of wages earned. And he is

NEILSON r. RtItNE SHIPPING CO.
Syllabus.

185.

given a remedy in the courts of the United States. The
defense of an advance payment is precluded and clearance
of the foreign vessel is forbidden. And thus the act has
completeness of right and remedy and, we think, precludes
judicial limitation of either. Its provisions are simple
and direct, there is no confusion in their command, no
difficulty in their obedience. Of course, a "master, owner,
consignee, or agent of" any foreign vessel, to quote the
words of the act again, cannot violate any provision of it
if he be not in the United States. If there be provisions
that cannot reach him, that with which this case is concerned can reach him.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the District Court was
right in refusing to allow the Liverpool advances and the*
Circuit Court of Appeals was wrong in reversing the
ruling.

NEILSON ET AL. v. RHINE SHIPPING COMPANY,
CLAIMANT OF THE SAILING SIP "RHINE."
,HARDY ET AL. v. SHEPARD & MORSE LUMBER
COMPANY, CLAIMANT OF THE BARKENTINE
"WINDRUSH."
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 393, 394. Argued November 5, 1918.-Decided December 23, 1918.

Section 11 of the Seaman's Act of 1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164, construed as not prohibiting advance payment of wages when made by
P. 212.
an American vessel to secure seamen in a foreign port
Sandbcrg v. McDptald, ante, 185.

250 Fed. Rep. ISO, affirmed.

