INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.

215

Syllabus.

205.

We are unable to assent. We regard the act of Congress
as clear and that the theatre of its injunction is the harbors of the United States. It is misleading to dwell upon
the jurisdiction of other places, which is but another
name for control. The jurisdiction, control, is in and by
the United States and the command is that advances
shall not be deducted from wages of seamen on vessels,
American or foreign, while in the waters of the United
States. Where they were made or under what circumstances made are not factors in judgment. They are
the mere accidents of the situation and if they reach the
importance and have the eribarrassment depicted by
counsel, the appeal must be to Congress, which no doubt
will promptly correct the improvidence, if it be such, of
its legislation. We have already expressed our view Qf
the control of the language of the law and that it is a
barrier against alarms and fault-finding.
It hence follows that we are of opinion the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals in each case should be reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.

INTERNATIONAL NEWS SERVICE v. THE ASSOCIATED PRES
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 221.

Argued May 2, 3, 1918.-Decided December 23, 1918.

An incorporated association of proprietors and representatives of
many newspapers, engaged in gathering news and distributing
it to its. members for publication, is a proper party to represent
them in a suit to protect their interests in news so collected against
the illegal acts of a'rival organization. Equity Rule, 38. P. 233.
The right to object to the non-joinder of parties may be treated as.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

waived if not made specifically in the courts below. Equity Rules,
43, 44. P. 233.
A news article in a newspaper may be copyrighted under the Act of
March 4, 1909, but news, as such, is not copyrightable. P. 234
As against the public, any special interest of the producer of uncopyrighted news matter is lost upon the first publication. Id.
But one who gathers news, at pains and expense, for the purpose of
lucrative publication, may be said to have a quasi property in the
results of his enterprise, as against a rival in the same business, and
the appropriation of those results at the expense and to the damage
of the one and for the profit of the other is unfair competition against
which equity will afford relief. P. 236.
An incorporated association of newspaper publishers gathered news,
at pains and expense, and without applying for copyright telegraphed
it daily to its members throughout the country, for their exclusive
use in publication, they paying assessments therefor; a rival corporation, serving other newspapers for pecuniary returns, made a
practice of obtaining this news through early publications in newspapers and on bulletns of the first company's imembers, and of
sending it by telegraph, either as so taken or in rewritten form, to
its own customers, thus enabling them to compete with the newspapers of the first company in the prompt publication of news
obtained for the benefit of the latter by their exclusive agency and
at their expense. Held, that the first company, and its members,
as against the second company, had an equitable quasi property
Ai.he news, even after the early publications; that the use made
of it by the second company, not as a mere basis for independent
investigation but by substantial appropriation, for its own gain
and at the expense and to the damage of their enterprise, amounted
lo unfair competition which should be enjoined, irrespective of the
false pretense involved in rewriting articles and in distributing the
news without mentioning the source; for this, while accentuating
the wrong, was not of its essence. Pp. 237, et seq.; 242.
Upon the pleadings and proofs in this case, held, that complainant
was iiot debarred from relief upon the ground of unclean hands by
the fact thatfoiiuwing a practice engaged in by the defendant also
and by news agencies generally, it had used the defendant's news
items, when published, as "tips" for investigations, the results of
which it sold: P. 242.
245 Fed; Rep'244, afirmed."
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

217

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. Samuel Untermyer and Mr. Hiram W. Johnson,
with whom Mr. Louis Marshall, Mr. William A. DeFord
and Mr. Henry A. Wise were on the briefs, for petitioner:
Facts are public and not private property. Davies v.
Bowes, 209 Fed. Rep. 53, 56; Tribune Co. v. Illinois
Publishing Co., 76 Publishers' Weekly, 643, 947; Thompson Co. v. American Law Book Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 922;
West Pub. Co. v. Thompson Co., 176 Fed. Rep. 839;
Clayton v. Stone, 2 Paine, 382; Baker v. Selden, 101 U. S.
99.
As respondent does not copyright its news, and as the
decree is not grounded on any statutory right, respondent
must stand or fall on a common-law right. Its position
cannot be said to be more favorable than that of the
creator of a work of literary or artistic merit. Yet, by
the common law, the publication of such works amounts
to a dedication to the public and confers a universal
right of reproduction and use whether for purposes of
gain or otherwise. Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591, 657;
Jeffreys v. Boosey, 4 H. L. Cas. 815, 962, 965, 967; Holmes
v. Hurst, 174 U. S. 85; Jewelers' Mercantile Agency v.
Jewelers' Publishing Co., 155 N. Y. 241.
As long ago as 1774, the House of Lords in Donaldson v.
Beckett, 4 Burr, 2408, note; 2 Brown's P. C. 129, laid
down principles which indicate that there can be no
ownership in news at common law after publication.
To the same effect are: Tribune Co. of Chicago v. A ssociated Press, 116 Fed. Rep. 126; New York Times Co. v.
Sun Publishing Co., 204 Fed. Rep. 586; Tribune Co. v.
Illinois Publishing Co., 76 Publishers' Weekly, 643, 947;
Walter v. Steinkopff [18921, L. R. 3 Ch. Div. 489. See also
Drone, Copyright, pp. 169, 170; Bowker, Copyright,
pp. 88, 89.
A bill to protect news for 24 hours failed of passage in
Congress; the decree below recognizes a right in the respondent which Congress (lceme(l it wise to withhold.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioner.

248 U. S.

That the posting of bulletins and the issuance of early
editions of newspapers by its members were regarded by
respondent as a publication is clearly shown by the bill,
and in Arts. VII and VIII of its by-laws.
If, with respondent's consent, the news which the petitioner is claimed to have copied had been printed in the
form of an uncopyrighted book, petitioner undoubtedly
could have multiplied and circulated copies without violating respondent's rights. The situation is no different
where the publication is in a daily newspaper and the
subject-matter is one of passing interest.
The principle that applies to literary property is equally
applicable to any idea, trade secret, or business plan,
which one may conceive or originate. See Peabody v.
Norfolk, 98 Massachusetts, 452; Bristol v. Equitable Life
Assurance Society, 132 N. Y. 264; Stein v. Morris, 91
S. E. Rep. 177; Hamilton Mfg. Co. v. Tubbs, 216 Fed.
Rep. 401; Haskins v. Ryan, 71 N. J. Eq. 575. Cf. Westcott ehuck Co. v. Oneida National Chuck Co., 199 N. Y.
247; Montegut v. Hickson, 178 App. Div. 94.
Upon publication, the news becomes the common
possession of all to whom it is accessible; private property
therein dies with its publication, as in the case of a trade
secret. Publication, being -expressly authorized, constitutes no breach of trust or confidence by respondent's
members. Neither its charter nor its by-laws required
that news gathered, by it remain confidential until its
publication has been accomplished by all members. But
even such a provision would not bind the public. No
limitation of the use, by contract or otherwise, is imposed
upon the purchaser of the newspaper or the reader of a
bulletin. He does not receive the news as a confidential
communication,- or as a secret or impressed with a trust.
The petitioner ,occupied no contractual or fiduciary relation toward the respondent; nor did it receive the information confidentially or under the seal of secrecy.

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v.ASSO. PRESS.
215.

219

Argument for Petitioner.

Whatever information it obtained it secured in common
with the public.
The holding of the Court of Appeals that respondent
and its members hatre a property right in the news until
the reasonable reward of each member is received, is a
mere conclusion, unsupported by reason. It confounds
the corporation and its members. We are not here concerned with the rights of the latter, whose individual
interests cannot be enforced in an action by the corporation. To admit respondent's ownership not only of all
despatches published in papers of its members and credited
to the respondent or not otherwise credited, and also of
the local news collected and published by its members,
would result in assuring to that organization absolute
dominion over the news of the country. Its service is
not available to any newspaper that may desire to avail
itself of it or to anyone not a member who may wish to
embark in the newspaper business. By its carefully
guarded by-laws, the respondent restricts its service
against such use. In holding that there can be no "publication" until each of respondent's members has been
enabled to publish the news, the court below disregards
the definition of that term as laid down by the lexicographers and authorities,-the act by which a thing is made
public or is given publicity. Tribune Co. of Chicago v.
Associated Press, 116 Fed. Rep. 126; LeRoy v. Jameson,
15 Fed. Cas. 373, 376; United States v. Williams, 3 Fed.
Rep. 484, 486; United. States v. Comerford, 25 Fed. Rep.
902, 903; D'Ole v. Kansas City Star Co., 94 Fed. Rep.
840, 842; Hale v. Grey, 21 Nevada, 278; Sproul v. Pillsbury,
72 Maine, 20, 21. If publication does not convert the
news into public property, it is difficult to understand
how respondent's property right continues until its full
commercial news value has been utilized, or how its existence as a right should be measured by the arbitrary term
of "three or four hours." A property right is not de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Petitioner.

248 U. S.

pendent upon its commercial value. The contention
that no publication, however general, can destroy the
property of the collector of news in the information he
has gathered is in direct conflict with the doctrines applicable to authors, inventors and artists, who, upon publication without seeking statutory protection, lose whatever
property rights they may have. And with respect to
capital and expenditures involved, the gatherer of news
is in no different position than is the author or inventor.
None of the elements of unfair competition is to be
found in this case. The respondent had no ownership
in the facts. The petitioner did not in any way sail under
false colors or pretend that the news which it distributed
was that of the respondent. In fact, the complaint
proceeds upon the very converse of that theory. Nor
did the petitioner resort to any of the methods which
have been held to constitute unfair competition. McLean
v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245; Lawrence Mfg. Co. v. Tennessee
Mfg. Co., 138 U. S. 537; Coats v. Merrick Thread Co.,
149 U. S. 562; Elgin National Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch
Co., 179 U. S. 675; Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans &
Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, 140; Diamant v. Lewis, 144 Iowa,
509, 517. In no case has the doctrine of unfair competition been extended to a case where there is no element of
deception, misrepresentation or confusion. The rule
applied in Singer Mfg. Co. v. June Mfg. Co., 163 U. S.
169, 185, to an expired patent or copyright is a fortiori
applicable where there has been no patent or copyright.
See also Dover Stamping Co. v. Fellows, 163 Massachusetts,
191; Bamford v. Douglass Post Card Machine Co., 158
Fed. Rep. 355.
The acts charged against respondent's predecessor in
Tribune Co. of Chicago v. Associated Press, 116 Fed. Rep.
126, were held to be lawful when committed by it. What
is it that converts the same acts, when charged against
the petitioner, into dolus or unfair competition? Nor is

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

221

Argument for Respondent.

it clear how the respondent's reading and using as a "tip"
of petitioner's news, sent out to respondent's members
in the form of news, differs from the act charged against
the petitioner. When the verified "tip" is sent out, it
in reality disseminates for the benefit of respondent and
its members the petitioner's news. Unfair compejition
cannot be predicated upon a universal custoiii in which
the respondent and all other news agencies and newspapers participate. If the petitioner is thargeable with
unfair competition, he who, foi profit and in competition
with an author or inventor who fails to take out a copyright or patent, makes use of the book, machine, process,
etc., is equally guilty of unfair competition.
If it was wrong for the petitioner to utilize news published witl the consent of the respondent, it was equally
wrong for the respondent to utilize the news of the petitioner published by its subscribers. He who comes into
equity must come with clean hands. Thompson Co. v.
American Law Book Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 922; Worden v.
CaliforniaFig Syrup Co., 187 U. S. 516; Manhattan Medicine Co. v. Wood, 108 U. S.218; Prince Mfg. Co. v. Prince's
Metallic Paint Co., 135 N. Y. 24; Uri v. Hirsch, 123 Fed.
Rep. 568; and other cases.
Mr. Frederick W. Lehmann, with whom Mr. FredericB.
Jennings, Mr.. Winfred T. Denison and Mr. Peter S.
Grosscup were on the briefs, for respondent:
News as a business commodity is property, because it
costs money and labor to produce and because it has
value for which those who have it not are ready to pay.
Its sole elements of value are its novelty, its accuracy.
and its presence in the place where there are people interested enough to pay for knowing it, and at the time
when they are so interested. The respondent at large
cost has established and operates an organization of labor
and capital covering the whole world, and the product

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Respondent.

248 U. S.

of this effort and expense is its property, because it made
it. This is not to say that, if it first discovers the happening of an event and transforms that discovery into a
thing of commercial value, it has an exclusive right to all
announcement of that happening. Any other organization has the same right to whatever message it may itself create, but it can have no right to appropriate the
message which another has secured and created by his
exclusive effort and expense. See Bleistein v. Donaldson,
188 U. S. 249.
That there is a property right in news, as p business
commodity, is settled in this court by Hunt v. New York
Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322, 333, and Board of Trade v.
Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 250. The latter
case affirmed Board of Trade v. Kinsey Co., 130 Fed. Rep.
507, 513, which held directly that there is a property
right in news in the form of price quotations which is
entitled to protection against appropriation. See also
Board of Trade v. Tucker, 221 Fed. Rep. 305; National
Tel News Co. v. Western Union Tel Co., 119 Fed. Rep.
294; Board of Trade v. McDearmott Co., 143 Fed. Rep.
188; Board of Trade v. Hadden-Krull Co., 109 Fed. Rep.
705; Board oy Trade v. Cella Commission Co., 145 Fed.
Rep. 28; Dodge Co. v. Construction Information Co., 183
Massachusetts, 66; Kiernan v. Manhattctn Quotation Tel.
Co., 50 How. Pr. 194, 196, 198. This principle has also
been recognized in England. Exchange Telegraph Co. v.
Howard, 22 Times Law Rep. 375; Exchange Telegraph
Co. v. Gregory & Co. [1896], 1 Q. B. 147; Exchange Telegraph Co. V'.Central News, Ltd. [1897], 2 Ch. 48; Cox v.
Land & Water Journal Co., L. R. 9 Eq. 324.
To hold that respondent has this property right, and
yet is entitled to but one exclusive publication by one
of its members, would be to destroy the property the
instant its value is commercially available, and set up an
artificial doctrine of law under which the business of

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

223

Argument for Respondent.

news collection and distribution cannot live. By the
Very inherent nature of this property right it continues
to exist, as a matter of law, and to be entitled to protection until the full commercial value of the news has been
realized. The cases cited supra base the recognition
of the right in news as a property right upon its value
as a commercial product, resulting from the use of capital
and labor, and possessing value capable of being realized
only by sale and purchase. The courts have recognized
this right by adjusting the time of the protection in such
a way as to make it effective for the particular circumstances. See Board of Trade v. Christie Grain & Stock
Co., 198 U. S. 251; National Tel. News Co. v. Western
Union Tel. Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 294. The present case is
like the trade-mark cases, anci analogous to Fonotipia v.
Bradley, 171 Fed. Rep. 951, 960; Prest-O-Lite Co. v. Davis,
209 Fed. Rep. 917; Universal Film Co. v. Copperman,
218 Fed. Rep. 577; and Ferrisv. Frohman, 223 U. S. 424.
Nothing short of an intentional transfer and surrender
of respondent's property right by its own act will destroy
it. No such voluntary surrender for purposes of sale
by a competing news agency can be predicated upon
the publication of its news by one of its members in the
first edition of a newspaper, Such publication is not
an abandonment for all purposes. It was not intended,
nor can it be implied, that the public could take the news
and sell it in competition with the respondent.
The rule by which literary property is supposed to
cease upon an unrestricted publication, without copyright,
is inapplicable to the conditions which rake and support
the status of news as property. See National Tel. News
Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 119 -Fed. Rep. 294; and
Dodge Co. v. Construction Information Co., 183 Massachusetts, 66. Assuming that news is "literary property,"
and circumscribed by all the limitations imposed by law
upon such property, the petitioner's claim of a right

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Respondent.

248 U. S.

of unrestrained piracy would be invalid, because the
publication here is not unrestricted and also because at
common law an author had a permanent right of exclusive publication. Slater on Copyright, p. 9; Story on the
Constitution, § 1152; Drone on Copyright, p. 116; Miller
v. Taylor, 4 Burrows, 2303; Donaldson v. Beckett, 2 Bro.
P. C. 129; French v. Maguire, 55 How. Pr. 471, 479;
Holmes v. Hurst, 174 U. S. 82, 85; and the only question
has been whether this right is superseded by the copyright statutes. As to publications such as are involved
in the case at bar, which cannot be copyrighted, the
common-law rights, not being superseded by statute,
still persist. Indeed, this court has held that the copyright statute does not apply to "a work of so fluctuating
and fugitive a form as that of a newspaper." Baker v.
Selden, 101 U. S. 99, 105.
News has no resemblance of any kind to literary property, and the reasons which exist for limiting the life of a
copyright are wholly inapplicable to news. News is not
locked in the brain of the producer, but is -the event to
which all persons have equal access. The right of the
owner of a certain report of an event to prevent its appropriation by others in no sense deprives the public of
the benefit of knowledge of the event. Others by their
own efforts may develop a similar report and even use
the report of the person who first acquires the knowledge
as a guide. This conserves the interests of the respondent
and all interest of public policy, and imposes upon the
petitioner no burden except that of making no unearned
profit at the expense of the respondent. This is a complete
answer to the contention that the injunction will result
in the creation of a monopoly in the respondent.
In cases arising under the copyright statute, as well
as in som of the news ticker and other cases not affected
by the statute, the courts have based their construction
of what constitutes such a publication as will destroy the

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

225

Argument for Respondent.

property right upon a conception of voluntary dedication
to the public; and where a restriction is made either expressly or by implication the owner's rights continue,
however broad and unlimited the publication may otherwise be. This doctrine, so far as applied to cases outside
the statute, has been seized upon by courts apparently
as a means of adjusting the law of literary property and
copyright to the business necessities of news service. See
National Tel. News Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., supra;
Board of Trade v. Hadden-Krull Co., 109 Fed. Rep. 705;
Board of Trade v. Tucker, 221 Fed. Rep. 305, 307; Board
of Trade v. McDearmott Commission Co., 143 Fed. Rep.
188. In fact from the decision in Kiernan v. Manhattan
Quotation Tel. Co., 50 How. Pr. 194, in 1876, down to
this date, no case can be found where an injunction has
been denied for lack of express or implied restriction in
the publication of news or matters analogous to news.
Tribune Co. of Chicago v. Associated Press, 116 Fed. Rep.
126, which was decided prior to the National Telegraph
and Hadden-Krull Cases, was decided upon special
grounds of copyright, which are inapplicable here. None
of the ticker cases are really cases of restriction in the
number and identity of the persons who are to be allowed
to read the report, excepting as they are restricted by
fundamental principles of fair dealing and the restraints
against misappropriation. And if it be material to find a
restriction it is that which is implied against the use to
which the readers may put the ticker news; nobody is
intended to be given any right to take the news from the
ticker tape for commercial sale as news.
The publication of Associated Press news by its members is no more a dedication of that news to the readers
for all purposes than are the performances of plays which,
however public, have been held not to include a dedication for purposes of reproduction from memory, Tompkins
v. Halleck, 133 Massachusetts, 32; Aronson v. Baker,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Respondent.

248 U. S.

43 N. J. Eq. 365; Boucicault v. Fox, 5 Blatchf. 87; Boucicault v. Hart, 13 Blatchf. 47; Crowe v. Aiken, 2 Biss. 215;
Universal Film Co. v. Copperman, 218 Fed. Rep. 577;
Ferris v. Frohman, 223 U. S. 424; or the public delivery
of lectures, even with provision of printed copies for
students, Drummond v. Altemus, 60 Fed. Rep. 338;
Abernethy v. Hutchinson, 3 L. J. (0. S.) Ch. 209; Bartlette
v. Crittenden, 4 McLean, 300; Bartlett v. Crittenden, 5
McLean, 32; Nicols v. Pitman, L. R. 26 Ch. D. 374;
Cairdv. Sime, L. R. 12 App. Cas. 326; or the exhibition of
pictures and publication of engravings, Werckmeister v.
American Lithographic Co., 134 Fed. Rep. 321; 207 U. S.
299; Turner v. Robinson, 10 Ir.Eq. Rep. 121.
The practice of taking respondent's news from early
editions and bulletins and selling and distributing it
without any original investigation and without any expense is unfair business competition. It makes the respondent's collecting agencies the direct servant and
source of supply for business goods to be distributed and
sold by the petitioner. Complete country-wide publication of the news collected by the respondent is the only
possible way in which it can "gain its reward" for its
expenditure, and it is the very foundation upon which
the whole business rests. The collecting labor and expense cannot be severed from the distribution and reimbursement. Furthermore, the public has an interest
in the efficiency of industry, as its means of supporting
life; the public interest can never be promoted by encouraging unfair, inequitable or dishonorable practices,
which must inevitably result in the destruction of the
producing work; and moreover, where one news agency
takes its news from another the public does not get
the benefit of news collected by two independent associations.
It is immaterial in what manner the petitioner gets
respondent's news, so long as the use it makes of the

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

227

Argument for Respondent.

news is to compete unfairly. It is no defense that petitioner sold it as its own, as if gatheied by its own independent efforts. The appropriation and use is just as
unfair as if it were frankly accredited to the respondent.
As well might a manufacturer argue that he was entitled
to use his rival's trade-mark for competitive commercial
purposes, merely because he may lawfully purchase a
package marked with it. Acts which might be innocent
and lawful if done under other circumstances are injurious
and unlawful if they operate unfairly in competition.
Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S.. 194, 200; United States v.
Eastman Kodak Co., 226 Fed. Rep. 62, 74; 230 Fed. Rep.
522, 524; United States v. American Can Co., 230 Fed.
Rep. 859, 887, 888; Tuttle v. Buck, 107 Minnesota, 145;
Dunshee v. Standard Oil Co., 152 Iowa, 618, 626; "Trust
Laws, apd Unfair Competition," U. S. Bureau of Corporations, March 15, 1915, pp. 463-486, 496, 497, 117,
118; 20 Harvard Law Review, 420; Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S.
600, 614. The "fighting ship" cases are based on the
same principle. United States v. Hamburg American
S. S. Line, 216 Fed. Rep. 971, 973, 974; United States v.
Hamburg, etc., Gesellschaft, 200 Fed. Rep. 806; United
States v. American-Asiatic S. S. Co., 220 Fed. Rep. 235.
Even free speech is subject to the condition that it should
not be used unfairly in competition. Gompers v. Bucks
Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 437, 438. While a
competitor can further his business by selling below
other men's prices or below cost for the purpose of reducing loss of excess stock, he cannot do either of these
acts in such a manner, and for such a purpose, as will
drive a competitor out of business. Nash v. United States,
229 U. S. 373, 376; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221
U. S. 1, 43; Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226
U. S. 157, 160; United States v. Great Lakes Towing Co.,
208 Fed. Rep. 733, 743-745; United States v. Pacific Co.,

OCTOBER 'TIIIM, 1918.
Argument for Respondent.

248 U. S.

228 U. S. 87; United States v. American Can Co., 230 Fed.
Rep. 859, 887, 888; Ware-Kramer Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 180 Fed. Rep. 160, 167.
The "unclean hands" doctrine does not mean that
whenever a complainant has been guilty of inequitable
conduct the courts will refuse to grant him relief; it means
merely that equity will refuse to aid a complainant in
protecting any right acquired or retaine d by inequitable
conduct. This distinction is made in the Christie Case,
supra; and in Wilder Mfg. Co. v. Corn Products Co., 236
U. S. 165, 172. In Prince Mfg. Co. v. Prince's Metallic
Paint Co., 135 N. Y. 24; Fetridge v. Wells, 4 Abb. Pr. 144;
and Manhattan Medicine Co. v. Wood, 108 U. S.218, the
court refused to protect the plaintiff's trade name on the
ground that an injunction would directly further the
inequitable practices of the plaintiff. The principle upon
which courts of equity will apply this doctrine is illustrated by Primeau v. Granfield, 180 Fed. Rep. 851; Chute
v. Wisconsin Chemical Co., 185 Fed. Rep. 115; Bentley v.
Tibbals, 223 Fed. Rep. 247, 252; Talbot v. Independent
Order of Owls, 220 Fed. Rep. 660.
No showing has been made that the practices were
authorized or approved by those responsible for the
policies of the Associated Press. Vulcan Detinning Co. v.
American Can Co., 72 N. J. Eq. 387.
The petitioner's contention that the respondent has
obtained news by the same methods as those used by
defendant was not sustained in fact. "Tipping off" has
been a recognized practice among all news agencies and
has existed by common consent, and, as found by the
District Court, is the only one authorized or adopted
by the respondent. When. the "tip" is receivedi it is
independently investigated, and the news obtained in
this way is as much the product of respondent's effort
and entitled to protection as its property as if it had
been obtained without any "tip." This practice is not

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

229

Opinion of the Court.

in any sense unjust or unlawful, and does not constitute
unfair competition. The right of another news agency to
use the report as a "tip" for investigation on its own
account is vital to the public need of correct information.
The legality of similar practices in other businesses has
been recognized. Thompson Co. v. American Law Book
Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 922; West PublishingCo. v. Thompson
Co., 176 Fed. Rep. 833, 838; Pike v. Nicholas, L. R. 5
-Ch. App. 263; Morris v. Wright, L. R. 5 Ch. App. 287;
Moffatt v. Gill, 86 Law Times Rep. 465.

MR. JUsTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The parties are competitors in the gathering and distribution of news and its publication for profit in newspapers throughout the United States. The Associated
Press, which was complainant in the District Court, is a
co6peratice organization, incorporated under the Membership Corporations Law of the State of New York, its
members being individuals who are either proprietors or
representatives of about 950 daily newspapers published
in all parts of the United States. That a corporation
may be organized under that act for the purpose of gathering news for the use and benefit of its members and for
publication in newspapers owned or represented-by them,
is recognized by an amendment enacted in 1901 (Laws
N. Y. 1901, c. 436). Complainant gathers in all parts
of the world, by means of various instrumentalities of
its own, by exchange with its members, and by other
appropriate means, news and intelligence of current and
recent events of interest to newspaper readers and distributes it daily to its members for publication in their
newspapers. The cost of the service, amounting approximately to $3,500,000 per annum, is assessed upon
the members and becomes a part of their costs of operation, to be recouped, presumably with profit, through

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

the publication of their several newspapers. Under complainant's by-laws each member agrees upon assuming
membership that news received through complainant's
service is received exclusively for publication in a particular newspaper, language, and place specified in the certificate of membership, that no other use of it shall be
permitted, and that no member shall furnish or permit
anyone in his employ or connected with his newspaper to
furnish any of complainant's news in advance of publica-.
tion to any person not a member. And each member
is required to gather the local news of his district and
supply it to the Associated Press and to no one else.
Defendant is a corporation organized under the laws
of the State of New Jersey, whose business is the gathering
and selling of news to its customers and clients, consisting
of newspapers published throughout the United States, under contracts by which they pay certain amounts at stated
times .for defendant's service. It has wide-spread newsgathering agencies; the cost of its operations amounts,
it is said, to more than $2,000,000 per annum; and it
serves about 400 newspapers located in the various cities
of the United States and abroad, a few of which are represefited, also, in the membership of the Associated Press.
The parties are in the keenest competition between
themselves in the distribution of news throughout the
United States; and so, as a rule, are the newspapers that
they serve, in their several districts.
Complainant in its bill, defendant in its answer, have
set forth in almost identical terms the rather obvious
circumstances and conditions under which their business
is conducted. The value of the service, and of the news
furnished, depends upon the promptness of transmission,
as well as upon the accuracy and impartiality of the
news; it being essential that the news be transmitted to
members or subscribers as early or earlier than similar
information can be furnished to competing newspapers

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

231

Opinion of the Court.

by other news services, and that the news furnished by
each agency shall not be furnished to newspapers which
do not contribute to the expense of gathering it. And
further, to quote from the answer: "Prompt knowledge
and publication of world-wide news is essential to the
conduct of a modern newspaper, and by reason of the
enormous expense incident to the gathering and distribution of such news, the only practical way in which a
proprietor of a newspaper can obtain the same is, either
through coiperation with a considerable number of other
newspaper proprietors in the work of collecting and
distributing such news, and the equitable division with
them of the expenses thereof, or by the purchase of such
news from some existing agency engaged in that business."
The bill was filed to restrain- the pirating of complainant's news by defendant in three ways: First, by bribing
employees of newspapers published by complainant's
members to furnish Associated. Press news to defendant
before publication, for transmission by telegraph and
telephone to defendanl's clients for publication by them;
Second, by inducing Associated Press members to violate
its by-laws and permit defendant to obtain news before
publication; and Third, by copying news from bulletin
boards and from early editions of complainant's newspapers and selling this, either bodily or after rewriting
it, to defendant's customers.
The District Court, upon consideration of the bill and
answer, with voluminous affidavits on both sides, granted
a preliminary injunction under the first and second heads;
but refused at that stage to restrain the systematic practice admittedly pursued by defendant, of taking news
bodily from the bulletin boards and early editions of
complainant's newspapers and selling it as its own. The
court expressed itself as satisfied that this practice
amounted to unfair trade, but as the legal question was

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of thc Court.

248 u. s.

one of first impression it considered that the allowance
of an injunction should await the outcome of an appeal.
240 Fed. Rep. 983, 996. Both parties having appealed,
the Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the injunction
order so far as it went, and upon complainant's appeal
modified it and remanded the cause with directions to
issue an injunction also against any bodily taking of the
words or substance of complainant's news until its commercial value as news had passed away. 245 Fed. Rep.
244, 253. The present writ of certiorari was then allowed.
245 U. S. 644.
The only matter that has been argued before us is
whether defendant may lawfully be restrained from
appropriating news taken from bulletins issued by complainant or any of its members, or from newspapers
published by them, for the purpose of selling it to defendant's clients. Complainant asserts !that defendant's
admitted course of conduct in this regard both violates
complainant's property right in the news and constitutes
unfair competition in business. And notwithstanding
the case has proceeded only to the stage of a preliminary
injunction, we have deemed it proper to consider the
underlying questions, since they go to the very merits of
the action and are presented upon facts that are not in
dispute. As presented in argument, these questions are:
1. Whether there is any property in news; 2. Whether,
if there be property in news collected for the purpose of
being published, it survives the instant of its publication
in the first newspaper to which it is communicated by
tht. news-gatherer; and 3. Whether defendant's admitted
course of conduct in appropriating for commercial use
matter taken from bulletins or early editions of Associated
Press publications constitutes unfair competition in trade.
The federal jurisdiction was invoked because of diversity of citizenship, not upon the ground that the suit
arose under the copyright or other laws of the United

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

233

Opinion of the Court.

States. Complainant's news matter is not copyrighted.
It is said that it could not, in practice, be copyrighted,
because of the large number of dispatches that are sent
daily; and, according to complainant's contention, news
is not within the operation of the copyright act. Defendant, while apparently conceding this, nevertheless
invokes the analogies of the law of literary property and
copyright, insisting as its principal contention that,
a.ssuming complainant has a right of property in its news,
it can be maintained (unless the copyright act be complied with) only by being kept secret and confidential,
and that upon the publication with complainant's consent
of uncopyrighted news by any of complainant's members
in a newspaper or upon a bulletin board, the right of
property is lost, and the subsequent use of the news by
the public or by defendant for any purpose whatever becomes lawful.
A preliminary objection to the form in which the suit
is brought may be disposed of at the outset. It is said
that the Circuit Court of Appeals granted relief upon
considerations applicable to particular members of the
Associated Press, and that this was erroneous because
the suit was brought by complainant as a corporate
entity, and not by its members; the argument being that
their interests cannot be protected in this proceeding any
more than the individual rights of a stockholde' can be
enforced in an action brought by the corporation. From
the averments of the bill, however, it is plain that the
suit in substance was brought for the benefit of complainant's members, and that they would be proper
parties, and, except for their numbers, perhaps necessary
parties. Complainant is a proper party to conduct the
suit as representing their interest; and since no specific
objection, based upon the want of parties, appears to
have been made below, we will treat the objection as
waived. See Equity Rules 38, 43, 44.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

In considering the general question of property in news
matter, it is necessary to recognize its dual character,
distinguishing between the substance of the information
and the particular form or collocation of words in which
the writer has communicated it.
No doubt news articles often possess a literary quality,
and are the subject of literary property at the common
law; nor do we question that such an article, as a literary
production, is the subject of copyright by the terms of
the act as it now stands. In an early case at the circuit
Mr. Justice Thompson held in effect that a newspaper
was not within the protection of the copyright acts of
1790 and 1802 (Clayton v. Stone, 2 Paine, 382; 5 Fed. Cas.
No. 2872). But the present act is broader; it provides
that the works for which copyright may be secured shall
include "all the writings of an author," and specifically
mentions "periodicals, including newspapers." Act of
March 4, 1909, c. 320, §§ 4 and 5, 35 Stat. 1075, 1076.
Evidently this admits to copyright a contribution to a
newspaper, notwithstanding it also may convey news;
and such is the practice of the copyright office, as the
newspapers of the day bear witness. See Copyright
Office Bulletin No. 15 (1917), pp. 7, 14, 16-17.
But the news element-the information respecting
current events contained in the literary production-is not
the creation, f.the writer, but is a report of matters that
ordinarily are. ublici juris; it is the history of the day.
It i not to be ,. pposed that the framers of the Constitution, when they empowered Congress "to promote the
progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited
times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to
their resrective writings and discoveries" (Const., Art I,
§ 8, par. 8), intended to confer upon one who might
happen to be the first to report a historic event the exclusive right for any period to spread the knowledge of it.
We need spend no time, however, upon the general

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

235

Opinion of the Court.

question of property in news matter at common law, or
the applicatioxi of the copyright act, since it seems to us
the case must turn upon the question of unfair competition
in business. And, in our opinion, this does not depend
upon any general right of property analogous to the common-law right of the proprietor of an unpublished work
to prevent its publication without his consent; nor is it
foreclosed by showing that the benefits of the copyright
act have been waived. We are dealing here not with
restrictions upon publication but with the very facilities
and processes of publication. The peculiar value of news
is in the spreading of it while it is fresh; and it is evident
that a valuable property interest in the news, as news,
cannot be maintained by keeping it secret. Besides,
except for matters improperly disclosed, or published in
breach of trust or confidence, or in violation of law, none
of which is involved in this branch of the case, the news
of current events may be regarded as common property
What we are concerned with is the business of making
it known to the world, in which both parties to the
present suit are engaged. That business consists in maintaining a prompt, sure, steady, and reliable service designed to place the daily events of the world at the breakfast table of the millions at a price that, while of trifling
moment to each reader, is sufficient in the aggregate to
afford compensation for the cost of gathering and distributing it, with the added profit so necessary as an incentive to effective action in the commercial world.
The service thus performed for newspaper readers is not
only innocent but extremely useful in itself, and indubitably constitutes a legitimate business. The parties
are competitors in this field; and, on fundamental principles, applicable here as elsewhere, when the rights or
privileges of the one are liable to conflict with those of
the other, each party is under a duty so to conduct its
own business as not unnecessarily or unfairly to injure

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

that of the other. Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. V. Mitchell,
245 U. S. 229, 254.
Obviously, the question of what is unfair competition
in business must be determined with particular reference
to the character and circumstances of the business. The
question here is not so much the rights of either party
as against the public but their rights as between themselves. See Morison v. Moat, 9 Hare, 241, 258. And
although we may and do assume that neither party has
any remaining property interest as against the public
in uncopyrighted news matter after the moment of its
first publication, it by no means follows that there is no
remaining property interest in it as between themselves.
For, to both of them alike, news matter, however little
susceptible of ownership or dominion in the absolute
sense, is stock in trade, to be gathered at the cost of
enterprise, organization, skill, labor, and money, and to
be distributed and sold to those who will pay money for
it, as for any other merchandise. Regarding the news,
therefore, as but the material out of which both parties
are seeking to make profits at the same time and in the
same field, we hardly can fail to recognize that for this
purpose, and as between them, it must be regarded as
quasiproperty, irrespective of the rights of either as against
the public.
In order to sustain the jurisdiction of equity over the
controversy, we need not affirm any general and absolute
property in the news as such. The rule that a court of
equity concerns itself only in the protection of property
rights treats any civil right of a pecuniary nature as a
property right (In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, 210; In re
Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 593); and the right to acquire property by honest labor or the conduct of a lawful business
is as much entitled to protection as the right to guard
property already acquired. Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.
33, 37-38; Brennan v. United Hatters, 73 N. J. L. 729, 742;

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

237

Opinion of the Court.

Barr v. Essex Trades Council, 53 N. J. Eq. 101. It is
this iight that furnishes the basis of the jurisdiction in the
ordinary case of unfair competition.
The question, whether one who has gathered general
information or news at pains and expense for the purpose
of subsequent publication through the press has such
an interest in its publication as may be protected from
interference, has been raised many times, although never,
perhaps, in the precise form in which it is now presented.
Board of Trade v. Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198 U. S.
236, 250, related to the distribution of quotations of prices
on dealings upon a board of trade, which were collected by
plaintiff and communicated on confidential terms to
numerous persons under a contract not to make them
public. This court held that, apart from certain special
objections that were overruled, plaintiff's collection of
quotations was entitled to the protection of the law; that,
like a trade secret, plaintiff might keep to itself the work
'done at its expense, and did not lose its right by communicating the result to persons, even if many, in confidential
relations to itself, under a contract not to make it public;
and that strangers should be restrained from getting at
the knowiedge by inducing a breach of trust.
In National Tel. News Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co.,
119 Fed. Rep. 294, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit dealt with news matter gathered and
transmitted by a telegraph company, and consisting
merely of a notation of current events having but a transient value due to quick transmission and distribution;
and, while declaring that this was not copyrightable
although printed on a tape by tickers in the offices of
the recipients, and that it was a commercial not a literary
product, nevertheless held that the business of gathering
and communicating the news-the service of purveying
it-was a legitimate business, meeting a distinctive commercial want and adding to the facilities of the business

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

world, and partaking of the nature of property in k sense
that entitled it to the protection of a court of equity
against piracy.
Other cases are cited, but none that we deem it necessary to mention.
Not only do the acquisition and transmission of news
reqtire elaborate organization and a large expenditure of
money, sill, and effort; nut only has it an exchange value
to the gatherer, dependent chiefly upon its novelty and
freshness, the regularity of the service, its reputed reliability and thoroughness, and its adaptability to the public
needs; but also, as is evident, the news has an exchange
value to one who can misappropriate it.
The peculiar features of the case arise from the fact
that, while novelty and freshness form so important an
element in the success of the business, the very processes
of distribution and publication necessarily occupy a good
deal of time. Complainant's service, as well as defendant's, is a daily service-to daily newspapers; most of the
foreign news reaches this country at the Atlantic seaboard,
principally at the City of New York, and because of this,
and of time differentials due to the earth's rotation, the
distribution of news matter throughout the country is
principally from east to west; and, since in speed the telegraph and telephone easily outstrip the rotation of the
earth, it is a simple matter for defendant to take complainant's news from bulletins or early editions of complainant's members in the eastern cities and at the mere
cost of telegraphic transmission cause it to be published
in western papers issued at least as early as those served
by complainant. Besides this, and irrespective of time
differentials, irregularities in telegraphic transmission on
different lines, and the normal consumption of time in
printing and distributing the newspaper, result in permitting pirated news to be placed in the hands of defendant's .readers sometimes simultaneously with the service

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

239

Opinion of the Court.

of competing Associated Press papers, occasionally even
earlier.
Defendant insists that when, with the sanction and
approval of complainant, and as the result of the.use of its
news for the very purpose for which it is distributed, a
portion of complainant's members communicate it to the
general -public by posting it upon bulletin boards so that
all may-read, or by issuing it to newspapers and distributing it indiscriminately, complainant no longer has the
right to control the use to be made of it; that when it thus
reaches the light of day it becomes the common possession
of all to whom it is accessible; and that any purchaser of a
newspaper has the right to communicate the intelligence
which it contains to anybody and for any purpose, even
for the purpose of selling it for profit to newspapers published for profit in -competition with complainant's members.
The fault in the reasoning lies in applying as a test the
right of the complainant as against the public, instead of
considering the rights of complainant and defendant,
competitors in business, as between themselves. The right
of the purchaser of a single newspaper to spread-knowledge
of its contents gratuitously, for any legitimate purpose not
unreasonably interfering with complainant's right to make
merchandise of it, may be admitted; but to transmit that
news for commercial use, in competition with -complainant-which is what defendant has'done and seeks to
justify--is a very different matter. In doing this defendant, by its very act, admits that it is taking material that
has been acquired by complainant as the result of organization and the expenditure of labor, skill, and money, and
which is salable by complainant for money, and that defendant in appropriating it and selling it as its own is
endeavoring to reap where it has not sown, and by disposing of it to newspapers that are competitors of complainant's members is appropriating to itself the harvest

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

of those who have sown. Stripped of all disguises, the
process amounts to an unauthorized interference with the
normal operation of' complainant's legitimate business
precisely at +he point where the profit is to be reaped, in
order to divert a maturial portion of the profit from those
who have earned it lo those who have not; with special
advantage to defendant in the competition because of the
fact that it is not burdened with any part of the expense
of gathering the news. The transaction speaks for itself,
and a court of equity ought not to hesitate long in characterizing it as unfair competition in business.
The underlying principle is much the same as that
which lies at the base of the equitable theory of consideration in the law of trusts-that he who has fairly paid the
price. should have the beneficial use of the property.
Pom. Eq. Jur., § 981. It is no answer to say that complainant spends its money for that which is too fugitive or
evanescent to be the subject of property. That might,
and for the purposes of the discussion we are assuming that
'it would, furnish an answer in a common-law controversy.
But in a court of equity, where the question is one of
unfair competition, if that which complainant haA acquired
fairly at substantial cost may be sold fairly at substantial
profit, a competitor who is misappropriating it for the
purpose of disposing of it to his own profit and to the
disadvantage of complainant cannot be heard to say that
it is too fugitive or evanesdent to be regarded as property.
It has all the attributes of property necessary for determining that a misappropriation bf it by a competitor is
unfair competition because contrary to good conscience.
The contention that the news is abandoned to the
public for all purposes when published in the first newspaper is untenable. Abandonment is a question of intent,
and the entire organization of the Associated Press negatives such a purpose. The cost of the service would be
prohibitive if the reward were to be so limited. No single

.INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

241

Opinion of the Court.

newspaper, no small group of newspapers, could sustain
the expenditure. Indeed, it is one of the most obvious
results of defendant's theory that, by permitting indiscriminate publication by anybody and everybody for
purposes of profit in competition with the news-gatherer,
it would render publication profitless, or so little profitable
as in effect to cut off the service by rendering the cost
prohibitive in comparison with the return. The practical
needs and requirements of the business are reflected in
complainant's by-laws which have been referred to. Their
effect is that publication by each member must be deemed
not by any means an abandonment of the news to the
world for any and all purposes, but a publication for
limited purposes; for the benefit of the readers of tile
bulletin or the newspaper as such; not for the purpose of
making merchandise of it as news, with the result of depriving complainant's other members of their reasonable
opportunity to obtain just returns for their expenditures.
It is to be observed that the view we adopt does not
result in giving to complainant the right to monopolize
either the gathering or the distribution of the news, or,
without complying with the copyright act, to prevent the
reproduction of its news articles; but only postpones
participation by complainant's competitor in the processes
of distribution and reproduction of news that it has not
gathered, and only to the extent necessary to prevent
that competitor from reaping the fruits of complainant's
efforts and expenditure, to -he partial exclusion of complainant, and in violation of the principle that undeilies
the maxim sic utere tuo, etc.
It is said that the elements of unfair competition are
lacking because there is no attempt bydefendant to palm
off its goods as those of the complainant, characteristic of
the most familiar, if not the most typical, cases of unfair
competition. Howe Scale Co. v. Vyckofr, Seamans &
Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, 140. But we cannot concede that

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

the right to equitable relief is confined to that class of
cases. In the present case the fraud upon complainant's
rights is more direct and obvious. Regarding news matter
as the mere material from which these two competing
parties are endeavoring to make money, and treating it,
therefore, as quasi property for the purposes of their
business because they are both selling it as such, defendant's conduct differs from the ordinary case of unfair
competition in trade principally in this that, instead of
selling its own goods as those of complainant, it substitutes
misappropriation in the place of misrepresentation, and
sells complainant's goods as its own.
Besides the misappropriation, there are elements of
imitation, of false pretense, in defendant's practices. The
device of rewriting complainant's news articles, frequently
resorted to, carries its own comment. The habitual failure
to give credit to complainant for that which is taken is
significant. Indeed, the entire system of appropriating
complainant's news and transmitting it as a commercial
product to defendant's clients and patrons amounts to a
false representation to them and to their newspaper
readers that the news transmitted is the result of defendant's own investigation in the field. But these elements, although accentuating the wrong, are not the
essence of it. It is something more than the advantage of
celebrity of which complainant is being deprived.
The doctrine of unclean hands is invoked as a bar to
relief; it. being insisted that defendant's practices against
which complainant seeks an injunction are not different
from the practice attributed to complainant, of utilizing
defendant's news published by its subscribers. At this
point it becomes necessary to consider a distinction that is
drawn by -complainant, and, as we understand it, was
recognized by defendant also in the submission of proofs
in the District Court, between two kinds of use that may
be made by one news agency of news taken from the

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

243

Opinisi of the Court.

bulletins and newspapers of the other. .The first is the
bodily appropriation of a statement of fact or a news
article, with or without rewriting, but without independent investigation or other expense. This form of pirating
was found by both courts to have been pursued by defendant systematically with respect to complainant's news,
and against it the Circuit Court of Appeals granted an
injunction. This practice complainant denies having
pursued, amd the denial was sustained by the finding of
the District Court. It is not contended by defendant
that the finding can be set aside, upon the proofs as they
now stand. The other use is to take the news of a rival
agency as a "tip" to be investigated, and if verified by
independent investigation the news thus gathered is sold.
This practice complainant admits that it has pursued and
still is willing that defendant shall employ.
Both courts held that complainant could not be debarred on the ground of unclean hands upon the score of
pirating defendant's news, because not shown to be guilty
of sanctioning this practice.
As to securing "tips" from a competing news agency,
the District Court (240 Fed. Rep. 991, 995), while not
sanctioning the practice, found .that both parties had
adopted it in accordafice with common business usage, in
the belief that their conduct was technically lawful, and
hence did not find inmit any sufficient ground for attributing unclean hands to complainant. TheCi ouit Court
of Appeals (245 Fed. IRep. 247) found that the tip habit,
though discourage& by complainant, was '5incurably
journalistic," and that there was "no difficulty in discriminating between the utilization of 'tips' And the
bodily appropriation of another's labor in accumulating
and stating information."
We are inclined to think a distinction may be drawn
between the utilization of tips and the bodily appropriation of news matter, either in its original form or after

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

rewriting and ,pithout independent investigation and
verification; whatever may appear at the final hearing,
the proofs as they now stand recognize such a distinction;
both parties avowedly recognize the practice of taking
tips, and neither party alleges it to be -unlawful or to
amount to unfair competition in business. In a line of
English cases a somewhat analogous practice has been
held not to amount to an infringement of the copyright
of a directory or other book containing compiled information. In Kelly v. Morris, L. R. 1 Eq. 697, 701, 702,
Vice Chancellor Sir William Page Wood (afterwards Lord
Hatherly), dealing with such a case, said that defendant
was "not entitled to tako :one word of the informatibn
previously published without independently working out
the matter for himself, so as to arrive at the same result
irom the same common sources of information, and the
only use that he can legitimately make of a previous
publication is to verify his own calculations and results
when obtained." This was followed by Vice Chancellor
Giffard in Morris v. Ashbee, L. R. 7 Eq. 34, where he
said: "In a case such as this no one has a right to take the
results of the labour and expense incurred by another for
the purposes of a rival publication, and thereby save himself the expense and labour of working out and arriving
at these results by some independent road." A similar
view was adopted by Lord Chancellor Hatherly and the
former Vice Chancellor, then Giffard, L. J., in Pike v.
Nicholas, L. R. 5 Ch. App. Cas. 251, and shortly afterwards by the latter judge in Morris v. Wright, L. R. 5 Ch.
App. Cas. 279, 287, where he said, commenting upon
Pike v. Nicholas: "It was a perfectly legitimate course
for the defendant to refer to the plaintiff's book, and if,
taking that book as his guide, he went to the original
authorities and compiled his book from them, he made
no unfair or improper use of the plaintiff's book; and so
here, if the fact be that Mr. Wright used thb plaintiff's

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

245

Opinion of the Court.

book in order to guide himself to the persons on whom it
would be worth his while to call, and for no other purpose,
he made a perfectly legitimate use of the plaintiff's
book."
A like distinction was recognized by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Edward Thompson
Co. v. American Law Book Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 922, and
in West Publishing Co.' v. Edward Thompson Co., 176
Fed. Rep. 833, 838.
In the case before us, in the present state of the pleadings and proofs, we need go no further than to hold, as
we do, that the admitted pursuit by complainant of the
practice of taking news items published by defendant's
subscribers as tips to be investigated, and, if verified, the
result of the investigation to be sold-the practice having
been followed by defencatnt also, and by news agencies
generally -isnot shown to be such as to constitute an
unconscientious or inequitable attitude towards its adversary so as to fix upon complainant the taint of unclean
hands, and debar it on this ground from the relief to
which it is. otherwise entitled.
There is some criticism of the injunction that was
directed by the District Court upon the going down of
the mandate from the CircIit Court of Appeals. In
brief, it restrains any taking or gainfully using of the
complainant's news, either bodily or in substance, from
bulletins issued by the complainant or any of its members,
or from editions of their newspapers, "until its commercial
value as news to the complainant and all of its members has
passed away." The part complained of is the clause we
have italicized; but if this be indefinite, it is no more so
than the criticism. Perhaps it would be better that the
terms of the injunction be made specific, and so framed
as to confine the restraint to an extent consistent with
the reasonable,,protection of complainant's newspapers,
each in its own area and for a specified time after its

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion per HOLMES, J.

248 U. S.

publication, against the competitive use of pirated news
by defendant's customers. But the case presents practical difficulties; and we have not the materials, either in
the way of a definite suggestion of amendment, or in the
way of proofs, upon which to frame a specific injunction;
hence, while not expressing approval of the form adopted
by the District Court, we decline to modify it at this
preliminary stage of the case, and will leave that court
tJ, deal with thj matter upon appropriate application
made to it for the purpose.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES:

When an uncopyrighted combination of words is published there is no general right to forbid other people
repeating them-in other words there is no property in
the combination or in the thoughts or facts that the
words express. Property, a creation of law, does not
arise from value, although exchangeable-a matter of
fact. Many exchangeable values may be destroyed intentionally without compensation. Property depends upon
exclusion by law from interference, and a person is not
excluded from using any combination of words merely
because someone has used it before, even if it took labor
and genius to make it. If a given person is to be prohibited from making the use ofwords that his neighbors
are free to make some other ground must be found. One
such ground is vaguely expressed in the phrase unfair
trade. This means that the words &re repeated by a
competitor in business in such a way as to convey a
misrepresentation that materially injures the person who
first used them, by appropriating credit of some kind

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

Opinion per

247

HOLMES, J.

which the first user has earned. The ordinary case is a
representation by device, appearance, or other indirection
that the defendant's goods come from the plaintiff. But
the only reason why it is actionable to make such a representation is that it tends to give the defendant an ad-7antage in his competition with the plaintiff and that it
is thought undesirable that an advantage should be
gained in that way. Apart from that the defendant may
use such unpatented devices and uncopyrighted combinations of words as he likes. The ordinary case, I say,
is palming off the defendant's product as the plaintiff's,
but the sa.ae evil may follow from the opposite falsehood-from saying, whether in words or by implication,
that the plaintiff's product is the defendant's, and that,
it seems to me, is what h~s happened here.
Fresh news is got only by enterprise and expense. To
produce such news as it is produced by the defendant
represents by implication that it has been acquired by
the defendant's enterprise and at its expense. When it
comes from one of the great news-collecting agencies like
the Associated Press, the source generally is indicated,
plainly importing that credit; and that such a representation is implied may be inferred with some confidence
from the unwillingness of the defendant to give the credi'N
and tell the truth. If the plaintiff produces the news at
the same time that the defendant does, the defendant's
presentation impiedly denies to the plaintiff the credit
of collecting the facts and assumes that credit to the
defendant. If. the plaintiff is latu- n western cities it
naturally will be supposed to have obtaihxl its information from the defendant. The falsehood is a little more
subtle, the injury a little more indirect, than in ordinary
cases of unfair trade, but I think that the principle that
condemns the one condemns the other. It is a question
of how strong an infusion of fraud is necessary to turn
a flavor into a poison., The dose seems to me strong

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRANDF IS, J., diksenting.

248 U. S.

enough here to need i remedy from the law. But as, in
my view, the only grbund of complaint that can be recognized without legislation is the implied misstatement,
it can be corrected by stating the truth; and a suitable
acknowledgment of the source is all that the plaintiff
can require. I think that within the limits recognized
by the decision of the Court the defendant should be
enjoined from publishing news obtained from the Assohours after publication by the
ciated Press for
plaintiff unless it gives express credit to the Associated
Press; the number of hours and the form of acknowledgment to be settled by the Distriet Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concurs in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

dissenting.

There are published in the United States about 2,500
daily papers.' More than 800 of them are supplied with
domestic and foreign news of general interest by the
Associated Press-a corporation without capital stock
which does not sell news or earn or seek to earn profits,
but serves merely as an instrumentality by means of
which these papers supply themselves at joint expense
with such news. Papers not members of the Associated
Press depend for their news of general interest largely
upon agencies organized for profit. 2 Among these agen1See American Newspaper Annual and Directory (1918), pp. 4, 10,
1193-1212.
2 The Associated Press, by Frank B. Noyes, Sen. Doe. No. 27, 63d
Cong., 1st sess. In a brief filed in this court by counsel for the Associated Press the number of its members is stated to be 1030. Some
members of the Associated Press are also subscribers to the Internat;onal News Service.
Strictly the member is not the publshing concern, but an individual who is- the sole or part oiner of a newspaper, or an executive officer
of a company which owns one. By-laws, Article IT, § 1.

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

BRANDEIS,

249

J., dissenting.

cies is the International News Service which supplies
news to about 400 subscribing papers. It 'has, like the
Associated Press, bureaus and correspondents in this and
foreign countries; and its annual expenditure in gathering and distributing news is about $2,000,000. Ever
since its organization in 1909, it has included among thesources from which it gathers 'news, copies (purchased in
the open market) of early editions of some papers published by members of the Associated Press and the bulletins publicly posted by them. These .items, which constitute but a small part of the news transmitted to its
subscribers, are generally verified by the International
News Service before transmission; but frequently items
are transmitted without verification; and occasionally
even without being re-written. In no case is the fact
disclosed that such item was suggested by or taken from
a paper or bulletin published by an Associated Press
member.
No question of statutory copyright-is involved. The
sole question for our consideration is this: Was the International News Service properly enjoined from using, or
causing to be used gainfully, news of which it acquired

knowledge, by lawful means (namely, by reading publicly
posted bulletins or papers purchased by it in the open
market) merely because the news had been originally

gathered by the Associated Press and continued to be of
value to some of its members, or because it did not reveal

the source from which it was acquired?
The "ticker" cases, the cases concerning literary and
artistic compositions, and cases of unfair competition
were relied upon in support of the injunction. But it is
admitted that none of those cases affords a complete
analogy with that before us. The question presented for
decision is new; and it is important.
News is a report of recent occurrences. The business
of the news agency is to gather systematically knowledge

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

of such occurrences of interest and to distribute reports
thereof. The Associated Press contended that knowledge
so acquired is property, because it costs money and labor
to produce and because it has value for which those who
have it not are ready to pay; that it remains property and
is entitled to protection as long as it has commercial
value as news; and that to protect it effectively the defendant must be enjoined from making, or causing to be
made, any gainful use of it while it retains such value.
An essential element of individual property is the legal
right to exclude others from enjoying it. If the property
is private, the right of exclusion may be absolute; if the
property is affected with a public interest, the right of
exclusion is qualified. But the fact that a product of the
mind has cost its producer money and labor, and has a
value for which others are willing to pay, is not sufficient
to ensure to it this legal attribute of property. The
general rule of law is, that the noblest of human productions-knowledge, truths ascertained, conceptions,
and ideas-become, after voluntary communication to
others, free as the air to common use. Upon these incorporeal productions the attribute of property is continued after such communication only in certain classes of
cases where public policy has seemed to demand it. These
exceptions are confined to productions which, in some de-gree, involve creation, invention, or discovery. But by no
means all such are endowed with tliis attribute of property. The creations which are recognized as property
by the common law are literary, dramatic, musical, and
other artistic creations;, and these'have also protection
under the copyright statutes. The inventions and discoveries upon which this attribute of property is conferred only by statute, are the few comprised within the
,patent law. There are also many. other cases in which
courts interfere to prevent curtailment of plaintiff's
enjoyment of incorporeal productions; and in which the

*INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

BRANDEIS,

251

J., dissenting.

right to relief is often called a property right, but is such
only in a special sense. In those cases, the plaintiff has
no absolute right to the protection of his production; he
has merely the qualified right to be protected as against
the defendant's acts, because of the special relation in
which the latter stands or the wrongful method or means
employed in acquiring the knowledge or the manner in
which it is used. Protection of this character is afforded
where the suit is based upon breach of contract or of
trust or upon unfair competition.
The knowledge for which protection is sought in the
case at bar is not of a kind upon which the law has heretofore conferred the attributes of property; nor is the
manner of its acquisition or use nor the purpose to which
it is applied, such as has heretofore been recognized as
entitling a plaintiff to relief.
First: Plaintiff's principal .reliance was upon the
"ticker" cases; but they do not support its contention.
The leading cases on this subject rest the grant of relief,
not upon the existence of a general property right in
news, but upon the breach of a contract or trust concerning the use of news communicated; and that element is
lacking here. In Board of Trade v. Christie Grain &
Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 250, the court said the Board
"does not lose its rights by communicating the result
[the quotations] to persons, even if many, in confidentitl
relations to itself, under a contract not to make it public,
and strangers to the trust will be restrained from getting
at the knowledge by inducing a breach of trust and using
knowledge obtained by such a breach." And it is also
stated there, (page 251): "Time is of the essence in matters like this, and it fairly may be said that, if the contracts with the plaintiff are kept, the information will not
become public property until the plaintiff has gained-its
reward." The only other case in this court which relates
to this subject-is Hunt v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

322. While the opinion there refers the protection to a
general property right in the quotations, the facts aro
substantially the same as those in the Christie Case,
which is the chief authority on which the decision is
based. Of the cases in the lower federal courts and in the
state courts it may be said, that most of them too can,
on their facts, be reconciled with this principle, though
much of the language of the courts cannot be.1 In spite
of anything that may appear in these cases to the contrary it seems that the true principle is stated in the
Christie Case, that the collection of quotations "stands
like a trade secret." And in Dr. Miles Medical Co. v.
Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, 402, this court says of a
trade secret: "Any one may use it who fairly, by analysis
and experiment, discovers it. But the complainant is
.entitled to be protected against invasion of its right in
the process by fraud or by breach of trust or contract."
See John D. Park & Sons Co. v. Hartman, 153 Fed. Rep.
24, 29.
The leading English case, Exchange Telegraph Co. v.
Gregory & Co., [1896] 1 Q. B. 147, is also rested clearly
upon a breach of contract, or trust, although there is some
'Board of Trade of City of Chicago v. Tucker, 221 Fed. Rep. 305;
Board of Trade of City of Chicago v. Price, 213 Fed. Rep. 336; McDearmolt Commission Co. v. Board of Trade of City of Chicago, 146 Fed.
'Rep. D61; Board of Trade of City of Chicago v. Cella Commission Co.,
'145 Fed. Rep. 28; National Tel. News Co. v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 294; Illinois Commission Co. v. Cleveland Tel. Co.,
119 Fed. Rep. 301; Board of Trade of Chicago v. Hadden-Krull Co.,
109 Fed. Rep. 705; Cleveland Tel. Co. v. Stone, 105 Fed. Rep. 794;
Board of Trade of City of Chicago v. Thomson Commission Co., 103 Fed.
Rep. 902; K¢iernan v. Manhattan Quotatiot Telegraph Co., 50 How. Pr.
194. The bill in F. W. Dodge Co. v. Construction Information Co., 183
Mass. 62, was expressly based on breach of contract or of trust. It
has been suggested that a board of trade has a right of property in its
quotations because the facts reported originated in its exchange. The
point has been mentioned several times in the cases, but no great

importance seems to have been attached to it.

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. t. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

253

BRSANDEIS, J. dissenting.

reference to a general property right. The later English
cases seem to have rightly understood the basis of the
decision, and they have not sought to extend it further
than was intended. Indeed, we find the positive suggestion in some cases that the only ground for relief is the
manner in which knowledge of the report of the news
was acquired.'
If the news involved in the case at bar had been posted
in violation of any agreement between the Associated
Press and its members, questions similar to those in the
"ticker" cases might have arisen. But the plaintiff does
not contend that the posting was wrongful or that any
papers were wrongfully issued by its subscribers. On
the contrary it is conceded that both the bulletins and
the papers were issued in accordance with the regulations
of the plaintiff. Under such circumstances, for a reader
of the papers purchased in the open market, or a : ader
of the bulletins publicly posted, to procure and use gainfully, information therein contained, does not involve
inducing anyone To commit a breach either of contract
or of trust, or committing or in any way abetting a breach
of confidence.
Second: Plaintiff also relied upon the cases which
hold that the common-law right of the producer to prohibit copying is not lost by the private circulation of a
literary composition, the delivery of a lecture, the exhi1 In Exchange Telegraph Co., Ltd., v. Howard, 22 Times Law Rep.
375, 377, it is intimated that it would be perfectly permissible for the
defendant to take the score from a newspaper supplied by the plaintiff
and publish it. And it is suggested in Exchange Telegraph Co., Ltd., v.
Central News, Ltd., [1897] 2 Ch. 48, 54, that there are sources from
which the defendant might be able to get the information collected
by the plaintiff and publish it without committing any wrong. Copinger, Law of Copyright, 5th ed., p. 35, explains the Gregory Case on
the basis of the breach of confidence involved. Richardson, Law of
Copyright, p.39, also inclines to put the case "on the footing of implied
confidence."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRANNDns, J.,

dissenting.

248 U. S.

bition of a painting, or the performance of a dramatic or
musical composition. 1 These cases rest upon the ground
that the common law recognizes such productions as
property which, despite restricted communication, continues until there is a dedication to the public under the
copyright statutes or otherwise. But they are inapplicable for two reasons. (1) At common law, as under the
copyright acts, intellectual productions are entitled to
such protection only if there is underneath something
evincing the mind of a creator or originator, however
modest the requirement. The mere record of isolated
happenings, whether in words or by photographs not
involving artistic skill, are denied such protection;2 (2)
At common law, as under the copyright acts, the element
in intellectual productions which secures such protection
is not the knowledge, truths, ideas, or emotions which
the composition expresses, but the form or sequence in
which they are expressed; that is, "some new collocation
of visible or audible points,-of lines, colors, sounds, or
'Ferris v. Frohman,223 U. S. 424; American Tobacco Co. v. Werckmeister, 207 U. S. 284, 299; Universal Film Mfg. Co. v. Copperman,
218 Fed. Rep. 577; Werckmeister v. American Lithographic Co., 134
Fed. Rep. 321; Drummond v. Altemus, 60 Fed. Rep. 338; Boucicault v.
Hart, 13 Blatchf. 47; Fed. Cas. No. 1692; Crowe v. Aiken, 2 Biss. 208;
Fed. Cas. No. 3441; Boucicault v. Fox, 5 Blatchf. 87; Fed. Cas. No.
1691; Bartlett v. Crittenden,5 McLean, 32; Fed. Cas. No. 1076; Bartlette
v. Crittenden,4 McLean, 300; Fed. Cas. No. 1082; Tompkins v. Halleck,
133 Mass. 32; Aronson v. Baker, 43 N. J. Eq. 365; Caird v. Sime,
L. A. 12 App. Cas. 326; Nicols v. Pitman, L. R. 26 Ch. D. 374; Abernethy v Hutchinson, 3 L. J. (0. S.) Ch. 209; Turner v. Robinson, if,
Ir. Eq. Rep. 121.
'Compare Bleistein v. Donaldson Lithographing Co., 188 U. S.239,
2,50; Higgins v. Keuffel, 140 U. S. 428, 432; Burrow-GilesLithographic
Co. v. Sarony, Ill U. S. 53, 58-60; Baker v. Selden, 101 U. S. 99, 105,
106;,. Clayton v. Stone, 2 Paine, 382; Fed. Cas. No. 2872; National Tel.
News Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 294, 296-298;
Banks Law Pub. Co. v. Lawyers' Co-operative Pub. Co., 169 Fed.
Rep. 386, 391.

INTERNAT'T, NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

255

BRANDus, J., dissenting.

words." See White-Smith Music Co. v. Apollo Co., 209
U. S. 1, 19; Kalem Co. v. Harper Brothers, 222 U. S. 55,
63. An author's theories, suggestions, 'and speculations,
or the systems, plans, methods, and arrangements of an
originator, derive no such protection from the statutory
copyright of the book in which they are set forth; Iand
2
they are likewise denied such protection at common law.
That news is not property in the stret sense is illustrated by the case of Sports and General Press Agency,
Ltd., v. "Our Dogs" Publishing Co., Ltd., [1916] 2 K. B.
880, where the plaintiff, the assignee of the right to
photograph the exhibits at a dog show, was refused an
injunction against defendant who had also taken pictures
of the show and was publishing them. The court said
that, except in so far as the possession of the land occupied by the show enabled the proprietors to exclude
people or permit them on condition that they agree not
to take photographs (which condition was not imposed
in that case), the proprietors had no exclusive right to'
photograph the show and could therefore grant no such
right. And, it was further stated that, at any rate, no
matter what conditions might be imposed upon those
entering the grounds, if the defendant had been on. top
of a house or in some position where he could photograph
the show without interfering with the physical property
of the plaintiff, the plaintiff would have no right to stop
him. If, when the plaintiff creates the event recorded,
he is not entitled to the exclusive first publication of the
1Baker v. Selden, 101 U. S. 99; Perris v. Hexamer, 99 U. S. 674;
Barnes v. Miner, 122 Fed. Rep. 480, 491; Burnell v. Chown, 69 Fed.
Rep. 993; Tate v. Fulibrook, [1908] 1 K. B. 821; Chilton v. Progress
Printing & Publishing Co., [18951 2 Ch. 29, 34; Kendrick & Co. v.
Lawrence & Co., L. R. 25 Q. B. D. 99; Pike v. Nicholas, L. R. 5 Ch.
App. 251.,
?Bristol v. Equitable Life Assurance SociM. 132 N. Y. 264; Haskins
v. Ryan, 71 N. J. Eq. 575.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

news (in that case a photograph) of the event, no reason
can be shown why he should be accorded such protection
as to events which he simply records and transmits to
other parts of the world, though with great expenditure
of time and money.
Third: If news be treated as possessing the characteristics not of a trade secret, but of literary property, then
the earliest issue of a paper of general circulation or the
earliest public posting of a bulletin which embodies such
news would, under the established rules governing literary
property, operate as a publication, and all property in
the news would then cease. Resisting this conclusion,
plaintiff relied upon the cases which hold that uncopyrighted intellectual and artistic property survives private
circulation or a restricted publication; and it contended
that in each issue of each paper, a restriction is to be
implied that the news shall not be used gainfully in competition with the Associated Press or any of its members.
There is no basis for such an implication. But it is
also well settled that where the publication is in fact a
general one, even express words of restriction upon use
are inoperative. In other words, a general publication is
effective to dedicate literary property to the public, regardless of the actual intent of its owner.' In the cases
dealing with lectures, dramatic and musical performances, ~nd art exhibitions, 2 upon which plaintiff relied,
there was no general publication in print comparable to
the issue of daily newspapers or the unrestricted public
posting of bulletins. The principles governing those
cases differ more or less in application, if not in theory,
from the principles governing the issue of printed copies;
'Jewelers' Mercantile Agency v. Jewelers' Publishing Co., 155 N. Y.
241; Wagner v. Conried, 125 Fed. Rep. 798, 801; Larrowe-Loisette v.
O'Loughlin, 88 Fed. Rep. 896.
2 See cases in note 1, p. 254, supra; Richardson, Law of Copyright,
p. 128.

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

257

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

and in so far as they do differ, they have no application
to the case at bar.
'Fourth: Plaintiff further contended that defendant's
practice constitutes unfair competition,, because there is
"appropriation without cost to itself of values created
by" the plaintiff; and it is upon this ground that the
decision of this court appears to be based. To appropriate and use for profit, knowledge and ideas produced by
other men, without making compensation or even acknowledgment, may be inconsistent with a finer sense of
propriety; but, with the exceptions indicated above, the
law has heretofore sanctioned the practice. Thus 'it was
held that one may ordinarily make and sell anything in
any form, may copy with exactness that which another
has produced, or may otherwise use his ideas without his
consent and without the payment of compensation, and
yet not hiflict a legal injury; I and that ordinarily one is
at perfect liberty to find out, if he can by lawful means,
trade secrets of another, however valuable, and then use
the knowledge so acquired gainfully, although it cost the
original owner much in effort and in money to collect
or produce.'
Manufacturing Co. v. Holway, 178 Massachusetts, 83;
Bristol v. Equitable Life Assurance Society, 132 N. Y. 264; Keystone
Type Foundry v. PortlandPublishingCo., 186 Fed. Rep. 690.
2 Chadwick v. Covell, 151 Massachusetts, 190; Tabor V. Hoffman,
118 N. Y. 30, 36; James v. James, L. R. 13 Eq. 421. Even when
knowledge is compiled, as in a dictionary, and copyrighted, the suggestions and sources therein may be freely used by a later compiler.
The copyright protection merely prevents his taking the ultimate
data while avoiding the labor and expense involved in compiling them.
Pike v. Nicholas, L. R. 5 Ch. App. 25.1; Morris v. Wright, L. R. 5 Ch.
App. 279; Edward Thompson Co. v. American Law Book Co., 122 Fed.
Rep. 922; West Pub. Co. v. Edward Thompson Co., 176 Fed. Rep. 833.
It is assumed that in the absence of copyright, the data compiled could
be freely used. See MOrris v. Ashbee, L. R. 7 Eq. 34, 40. Compare
also Chilton v. ProgressPrinting & Publishing Co., [1895] 2 Ch. 29.
1Flagg

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRA"Eis, J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

Such taking and gainful use of a product of another
which, for reasons of public policy, the law has refused to
endow with the attributes of property, does not become
unlawful because the product happens to have been
taken from a rival and is used in competition with him.
The unfairness in competition which hitherto has been
recognized by the law as a basis for relief, lay in the
manner or means of conducting the business; and the
manner or means held legally unfair, involves either
fraud or force or the doing of acts otherwise prohibited
by law. In the "passing off" cases (the typical and most
common case of unfair competition), the wrong consists
in fraudulently representing by word or act that defendant's goods are those of plaintiff. See Hanover Milling
Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 403, 412-413. In the other
cases, the diversion of trade was effected through physical
or moral coercion, or by inducing breaches of contract
or of trust or by enticing away employees. In some others,
called cases of simulated competition, relief was granted
because defendant's purpose was unlawful; namely, not
competition but deliberate and wanton destruction of
plaintiff's business. 1
Laws & Unfair Competition" (U. S. Bureau of Corporations, March 15, 1915), pp. 301-331, 332-461; Nims, Unfair Competition & Trade-Marks, c. XIX; Sperry & Hutchinson Co. v. Pommer,
199 Fed. Rep. 309, 314; Racine Paper Go6fds Co. y. Dittgen, 171 Fed,
Rep. 631; Schonwuald v. Ragains, 32 Oklahoma, 223; Attorney General
v. National Cash Register Co., 182 Michigan, 99; Witkop f Holmes 6p.
v. Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., 124 N. Y. Supp. 956, 958; Dunshlee
v. StandardOil Co., 152 Iowa, 618; Tuttle v. Buck, 107 Minnesota, 145,
The cases of Fonotipia,Limited, v. Bradley, 171 Fed. Rep. 951, and
Prest-O-Lite Co. v. Davis, 209 Fed. Rep. 917, which were strongly
relied upon by the plaintiff, contain expressions indicating rights
possibly broad enough to sustain the injunction in the case at bar;
but both cases involve elements of "passing off." See also Prest-OLite Co. v. Davis, 215 Fed. Rep. 349; Searchlight Gas Co. v. Prest-O-Lite
Co., 215 Fed. Rep. 692; Prest-O-Lite Co. v. H. W. Bogen, Inc., 209
1 "Trust

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

259

BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

That competition is not unfair in a legal sense, merely
because the profits gained are unearned, even if made at
the expense of a rival, is shown by rhany cases besides
those referred to above. He who follows the pioneer into
a new market, or who engages in the manufacture of an
article newly introduced by another, seeks profits due
largely to the labor and expense of the first adventurer;
but the law sanctions, indeed encourages, the pursuit. 1
He who makes a city known through his produt, must
submit to sharing the resultant trade with others who,
perhaps for that reason, locate there later. Canal Co. v.
Clark, 13 Wall. 311; Elgin National Watch Co. v. Illinois
Watch Co., 179 U. S. 665, 673. He who has made his
name a guaranty of quality, protests in vain when another
with the same name engages, perhaps for that reason, in
the same lines of business; provided, precaution is taken
to prevent the public from being deceived into the belief
that what he is selling was made by his competitor. One
bearing a name made famous by another is permitted to
enjoy the unearned benefit which necessarily flows from
such use, even though the use proves harmful to him who
gave the name value. Brown Chemical Co. v. Meyer,
139 U. S. 540, 544; Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans
& Benedict, 198 U. S. 118; Donnell v. Herring-HallMarvin Safe Co., 208 U. S. 267; Waterman Co. v. Modern
Pen Co., 235 U. S. 88. See Saxlehner v. Wagner, 216
U. S. 375.
The means by which'the International News Service
obtains news gathered by the Associated Press is also
clearly unobjectionable. It is taken from papers bought
in the open market or from bulletins -publicly posted.
Fed. Rep. 915; Prest-O-Lite Co. v. Avery Lighting Co., 161 Fed. Rep.
648. In'Prest-O-Lite Co. v. Auto Acetylene Light Co., 191 Fed. Rep.
90, the bill was dismissed on the ground that no deception was shown.
1Magee Furnace Co. V. Le Barron, 127 Massachusetts, 115; Ricker
v. Railway, 90 Maine, 395, 403.

OCTOBER T1EM, 1918.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

No breach of contract such as the court considered to
exist in Hitchman Coal & Coke Co. v Mitchell, 245 U. S.
229, 254; or of trust such as was present in Morison v.
Moat, 9 Hare, 241; and neither fraud nor force, is involved. The manner of use is likewise unobjectionable.
No reference is made by word or by act to the Associated
Press, either in transmitting the news to subscribers or
by them in publishing it in their papers. Neither the
International News Service nor its subscribers is gaining
or seeking to gain in its business a benefit from the reputation of the Associated Press. They are merely using
its product without making compensation. See Bamforth
v. Douglass Post Card & Machine Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 355;
Tribune Co. of Chicago v. Associated Press, 116 Fed. Rep.
126. That, they have a legal right to do; because the
product is not property, and they do not stand in any
relation to the Associated Press, either of contract or of
trust, which otherwise precludes such use. The argument
is not advanced by characterizing such taking and use
a misappropriation.
It is also suggested, that the fact that defendant does
not refer to the Associated Press as the source of the news
may furnish a basis for the relief. But the defendant and
its subscribers, unlike members of the Associated Press,
were under no contractual obligation to disclose the
source of the news; and there is no rule of law requiring
acknowledgment to be made where uncopyrighted matter
is reproduced. The International News Service is said
to mislead its subscribers into believing that the news
transmitted was originally gathered by it and that they
in turn mislead their readers. There is, in fact, no representation by either of any kind. Sources of information
are sometimes given because required by contract; sometimes because naming the source gives authority to an
otherwise incredible statement; and sometimes the source
is named because the agency does not wish to take the

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. .. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

BRANDEIS,

261

J., dissenting.

responsibility itself of giving currency to the news. But
no representation can properly be implied from omission
to mention the source of information except that the
International News Service is transmitting news which
it believes to be credible.
Nor is the use made by the International News Service
of the information taken from papers or bulletins of Associated Press members legally objectionable by reason
of the purpose for which it was employed. The acts here
complained of were not done for the purpose of injuring
the business of the Associated Press. Their purpose was
not even to divert its trade, or to put it at a disadvantage
by lessening defendant's necessary expenses. The purpose was merely to supply subscribers of the International News Service promptly with all available news.
The suit is, as this court declares, in substance one brought
for the benefit of the members of the Associated Press,
who would be proper, and except for their number perhaps necessary, parties; and the plaintiff conducts the
suit as representing their interest. It thus appears that
the protection given by the injunction is not actually to
the business of the complainant news agency; for this
agency does not sell news nor seek to earn profits, but is
a mere instrumentality by which 800 or more newspapers
collect and distribute news. It is these papers severally
which are protected; and the protection afforded is not
from competition of the defendant, but from possible
competition of one or more of the 400 other papers which
receive the defendant's service. Furthermore, the protection to these Associated Press members consists merely
in denying to other papers the right to use, as news,
information which, by authority of all concerned, had
theretofore been given to the public by some of those
who joined in gathering it; and to which the law denies
the attributes of property. There is in defendant's purpose nothing on which to base a claim for relief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

It is further said that, while that for which the Associated Press spends its money is too fugitive to be recognized as property in the common-law courts, the defendant cannot be heard to say so in a court of equity, where
the question is one of unfair competition. The case
presents no elements of equitable title or of breach of
trust. The only possible reason for resort to a court of
equity in a case like this is that the remedy which the
law gives is inadequate. If the plaintiff has no legal
cause of action, the suit necessarily fails. Levy v. Walker,
L. R. 10 Ch. D. 436, 449. There is nothing in the situation of the parties which can estop the defendant from

saying so.
Fifth: The great development of agencies now furnishing country-wide distribution of news, the vastness of
our territory, and improvements in the means of transmitting intelligence, have made it possible for a news
agency or newspapers to bbtain, without paying compensation, the fruit of another's efforts and to use news so
obtained gainfully in competition with the original
collector. The injustice of such action is obvious. But
to give relief against it would involve more than the
application of existing rules of law to new facts. It would
require the making of a new rule in analogy to existing
ones. The unwritten law possesses capacity for growth;
and has often satisfied new demands for justice by invoking analogies or by expanding a rule or principle. This
process has been in the main wisely applied and should
not be discontinued. Where the problem is relatively
simple, as it is apt to be when private interests only are
involved, it generally proves adequate. But with the
'increasing complexity of society, the public interest tends
to become omnipresent; and the problems presented by
new demands for justice cease to be simple. Then 'the
creation or recognition by courts of a new private right
may work serious injury to the general public, unless the

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

BRANDEmS,

263

J., dissenting.

boundaries of the right are definitely established and
wisely guarded. In order to reconcile the new private
right with the public interest, it may be necessary to
prescribe limitations and rules for its enjoyment; and also
to provide administrative machinery for enforcing the
rules. It is largely for this reason that, in the effort to
meet the many new demands for justice incident to a
rapidly changing civilization, resort to legislation has latterly been had with increasing frequency.
The rule for which the plaintiff contends would effect
an important extension of property rights and a corresponding curtailment of the free use of knowledge and of
ideas; and the facts of this case admonish us of the danger
involved in recognizing such a property right in news,
without imposing upon news-gatherers corresponding
obligations. A large majority of the newspapers and
perhaps half the newspaper readers of the United States
are dependent for their news of general interest upon
agencies other than the Associated Press. The channel
through which about 400 of these papers received, as the
plaintiff alleges, "a large amount of news relating to the
European war of the greatest importance and of intense
interest to the newspaper reading public" was suddenly
closed. The closing to the International News Service
of these channels for foreign news (if they were closed)
was due not to unwillingness on its part to pay the cost
of collecting the news, but to the prohibitions imposed
by foreign governments upon its securing news from their
respective countries and from using cable or telegraph
lines running therefrom. For aught that appears, this
prohibition may have been wholly undeserved; and at
all events the 400 papers and their readers may be assumed to have been innocent. For aught that appears,
the International News Service may have sought then
to secure temporarily by arrangement with the Associated
Press the latter's foreign news service. For aught that

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRANDEIS,

J. dissenting.

248 U. S.

appears, all of the 400 subscribers of the International
News Service would gladly have then become members
of the Associated Press, if they could have secured election thereto.' It is possible, also, that a large part of
the readers of these papers were so situated that they
could not secure prompt access to papers served by the
Associated Press. The prohibition of the foreign governments might as well have been extended to the channels
through which news was supplied to the more than a
thousand other daily papers in the United States not
served by the Associated Press; and a large part of their
readers may also be so located that they can not procure
prompt access to papers served by the Associated Press.
A legislature, urged to enact a law by which. one news
agency or newspaper may prevent appropriation of the
fruits of its labors by another, would consider such facts
and possibilities and others which appropriate enquiry
might disclose. Legislators might conclude that it was
impossible to put an end to the obvious injustice involved
in such appropriation of news, without opening the door
to other evils, greater than that sought to be remedied.
Such appears to have been the opinion of our Senate
which reported unfavorably a bill to give news a few
I According to the by-laws of the Associated Press no one can be
elected a member without the affirmative vote of at least four-fifths
of all the members of thecorporation or the vote of the directors.
Furthermore, the poweF of the director to admit anyone to membership may be limited by a right of protest to be conferred upon individual, members. See By-laws,'Article III, § 6. "The members of
this Corporation may, by an Affirmative vote of seven-eighths of all
the members, confer upon a member (with such limitations as may
be at the time prescribed) a right of protest against the admission of
new members by the Board of Directors. The right of protest, Within
the limits specified at the time it is conferred, shall empower the member holding it to demand a vote of the members of the Corporation on
all applications for the admission of new members within the district
for which it is conferred except as provided in Section 2 of this Article."

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. z). ASSO. PRESS.
215.

265

BRANDEIS. J., dissenting.

hours' protection; I and which ratified, on February 15,
1011, the convention adopted at the Fourth International
American Conference; 2 and such was evidently the viev'
also of the signatories to the International Copyright

Union of November 13, 1908; 1 as both these conventions expressly exclude news from copyright protection.
I Senate Bill No. 1728, 48th Cong., 1st sess. The bill provides:

"That any daily or weekly newspaper, or any association of daily
or weekly newspapers, published in the United States or any of the
Territories thereof, shall have the sole right to print, issue, and sell,
for the erm of eight hours, dating from the hour of going to press,
the contents of said daily or weekly newspaper, or the collected news
of said newspaper association, exceeding one hundred words.
"See. 2. That for any infringement of the copyright granted by
the first section of this act the party injured may sue in any court o^
competent jurisdiction and recover in any proper action the damages
sustained by him from the person making such infringement, together
with the costs of suit."
It was reported on April 18, 1884, by the Committee on the Library,
without amendment, and that it ought not to pass. Journal of the
Senate, 48th Cong., 1st sess., p. 548. No further action was apparently
taken on the bill.
When the copyright legislation of 1909, finally enacted as Act of
March 4, 1909, c. 320, 35 Stat. 1075, was under consideration, there
was apparently no attempt to include news among the subjects of
copyright. ArgumentA before the Committees on Patents of the
Senate and House of Representatives on Senate Bill No. 6330 and
H. R. Bill No. 19853, 59th Cong., 1st sess., June 6, 7, 8, and 9, and
December 7, 8, 10, and 11, 1906; Hearings on Pending Bills to Amend
and Consolidate Acts Respecting Copyright, March 26, 27 and 28,
1908.
238 Stat. 1785, 1789, Article 11.
aBowker, 'Copyright: Its History and its Law, pp. 330, 612, 613.
See the similar provisions in the Berne Convention (1886) and the
Paris Convention (1896). Id., pp. 612, 613.
In 1898 Lord Herschell introduced in Parliament a bill, § 11 of
which provides: "Copyright in respect of a newspaper shall apply
only to such parts of the newspaper as are compositions of an original
literary character, to original ilhstrsations therein, and to such news
and information as have beene2pecklly and independently obtained."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

248 U. S.

Or legislators dealing with the subject might conclude,
that the right to news values should be protected to the
extent of permitting recovery of damages for any unauthorized use, but that protection by injunction should be
denied, just as courts of equity ordinarily refuse (perhaps
in the interest of free speech) to restrain .actionable
libels,' and for other reasons decline to protect by. injunction mere political rights; 2 and as Congress has
prohibited courts from enjoining the illegal assessment
or collection of federal taxes.' If a legislature concluded
to recognize property in published news to the extent of
permitting recovery at law, it might, with a view to
making the remedy more certain and adequate, provide
a fixed measure of damages, as in the case of copyright
4
infringement.
Or again, a legislature might conclude that it was
unwise to recognize even so limited a property right in
published news as-that above indicated; but that a news
agency should, on some conditions, be given full protec(Italics ours.) House of Lords, Sessional Papers, 1898, vol. 3, Bill
No. 21. Birrell, Copyright in Books, p. 210. But the bill was not

enacted, and in the English law as it now stands there is no provision
giving even a limited copyright in news as such. Act of December 16,
1911, 1 and 2 Geo. V, c. 46.
'Boston Diatite Co. v. Florence Mfg. Co., 114 Massachusetts, 69;
PrudentialAssurance Co. v. Knott, L. R. 10.Ch. App. 142.
2Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S. 475. Compare Swgfford v. Templeton,
185 U. S.487; Green v. Mills, 69 Fed. Rep. 852, 859.
Revised Statutes, § 3224; Snyder v. Marks, 109 U. S.189; Dodge v.
Osborn, 240 U.S.118.
4 Act of March 4, 1909, § 25, c. 320, 35 Stat. 1075, 1081, provides
as to the liability for the infringement of a copyright, that, "in the
ease of a newspaper reproduction of a copyrighted photograph such
damages shall .not exceed the sum of two hundred dollars nor be less
than the sum of fifty dollars"; and that in the case of infringement of a
copyrighted newspaper the damages recoverable shall be one dollar
for every infringing copy, but shall not be less than $250 nor more
than $5,000.

INTERNAT'L NEWS SERV. v. ASSO. PRESS.
215.

BRANDEIS,

267

J., dissenting.

tion of its business; and to that end a remedy by injunction 'as well as one for damages should be granted, where
news collected by it is gainfully used without permission.
If a legislature concluded, (as at least one court has held,
New York & Chicago Grain & Stock Exchange v. Board of
Trade, 127 Illinois, 153) that under certain circumstances
news-gathering is a business affected with a public interest, it might declare that, in such cases, news should be
protected against appropriation, only if the gatherer
assumed the obligation of supplying it, at reasonable
rates and without discrimination, to all papers which
applied therefor. If legislators reached that conclusion,
they would probably go further, and prescribe the conditions under which and the extent to which the protection should be afforded; and they might also provide the
administrative machinery necessary for ensuring to the
public, the press, and the news agencies, full enjoyment
of the rights so conferred.
Courts are ill-equipped to make the investigations
which should precede a determination of the limitations
which should be set upon any property right in news or
of the circumstances under which news gathered by a
private agency should be deemed affected with a public
interest. Courts would be powerless to prescribe the
detailed regulations essential to full enjoyment of the
rights conferred or to introduce the machinery required
for enforcement of such regulations. Considerations
such as these should lead us to decline to establish a new
rule of law in the - effort to redress a newly-disclosed
wrong, although the propriety of some remedy appears
to be clear.

