OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

FARSON, SON & COMPANY v. BIRD, AS COUNTY
TREASURER OF SHELBY COUNTY, ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
No. 54. Submitted November 15, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.
Petitioners sought by mandamus to compel a county treasurer to
devote the proceeds of a special tax toward satisfaction of their
county Warrants, claiming that their contract rights in the fund
were impaired by the action of the county board of revenue in
levying the tax for another object, in violation of the Constitution. The state court decided the treasurer had no discretion under the state law but to follow the levy, and that
petitioners' remedy, if any, was against the board or the county.
Held, that this court had no jurisdiction to review the judgment, because it was based on considerations of state law
sufficient to sustain it without reference to the federal questions.
Writ of error to review 197 Alabama, 384, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. G. W. L. Smith for-plaintiff in error.
No brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
But a single question is required to be decided. We
state the case only to the extent essential to make this
clear and to elucidate the issue to be considered.
In 1905 and 1907 the County of Shelby contracted to
build and furnish a court house. It was stipulated that
the price for the work should be evidenced by interestbearing warrants, maturing during a series of years. By
the constitution and laws of Alabama the power of taxa-

FARSON, SON & CO. v. BIRD.
268.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the county for general purposes was limited, but,
in addition, the constitution and laws authorized counties
to levy annually a special tax of one-fourth of one per
cent. to be applied to the erection or repair of county
buildings, the construction of roads, bridges, etc. The
warrants under the contract were in terms secured by an
agreement of the county to levy this one-fourth of one
per cent. tax annually and apply it to the payment of the
warrants. The state law contained a provision authorizing
the registry of county warrants and making such registration operate as a lien on the proceeds of the taxes
dedicated to the payment of the warrants. The court
house was completed, furnished, and accepted, and the
warrants were issued in conformity with the contract
and according to law.
In 1916, Farson, Son & Co., alleging themselves to be
holders of. warrants issued under the contract as above
stated, filed their suit for mandamus against the county
treasurer. The petition alleged the contract for the court
house and averred that the board of revenue of the county,
the governing body which had succeeded to the county
commissioners previously in authority, while continuing
the levy of the one-fourth of one per cent. tax, had, in
impairment of the obligation of the court house contract,
dedicated the proceeds of that tax, as collected, to roads
or bridges, thus depriving the warrant holders under the
court house contract of the means of payment to which they
were entitled. It was alleged that, in consequence of such
action, the county treasurer had refused to pay any of the
proceeds of the one-fourth of one per cent. tax to the court
house warrant holders, and had, in further violation of his
duty, credited the same to other funds and paid them out
accordingly. It was moreover charged that the treasurer
had in his hands, despite such wrongful payments to
others, the sum of about $12,000, derived from the onefourth ofoe per cent. tax collected in 1915, which it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

his duty to apply as far as necessary to the discharge of a
sum of $1,565, with interest, due on the court house warrants, and which he had refused to pay although demand
had been made on him to do so. The petition expressly"
counted upon the protection of the contract rights which it
asserted, not only by the constitution of the State but
also by the contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States, alleging impairment thereof by action of
the board of revenue, legislative in character; and the
prayer was that the county treasurer be mandamused to
pay out of the one-fourth of one per cent. tax for 1915 in
his hands the sum of $1,565, with interest. A demurrer to
the petition, as stating no cause for relief, was sustained,
and the case is before us upon the ground of the deprivation of federal right which arose from the action of the
court below in affirming the trial court.
The court below conceded that under the state law
mandamus was appropriate if the county treasurer had
capacity to stand in judgment. It moreover conceded
that, if the contract had been entered into as alleged, the
attempt to violate it by dedicating the proceeds of the
one-fourth of one per cent. tax to any purpose other than
to the payment of court house warrants was, in so far
as such proceeds were necessary to pay said warrants, void
as an impairment of the obligation of a contract forbidden
both by the state constitution and that of the United
States. But from these premises it nevertheless decided
that there was no right to the mandamus against the
county treasurer. It rested its conclusion on provisions
of the state constitution and laws, which it held defined
the duty of that officer and absolutely deprived him of all
power to apply or pay money coming into his hands by
taxation levied for a particular purpose to another and
different purpose. It decided, therefore, that if under the
theory that the board of revenue had wrongly directed the
appropriation of the one-fourth of one per cent. tax, ac-

FARSON, SON & CO. v. BIRD.
268.

Opinion of the Court.

tion against that body and not merely against the county
treasurer was appropriate and necessary under the state
law. The court said:
"If the facts alleged in this petition are true, they [the
court house warrant holders] ought to have relief, and the
county ought to be required to carry out its contract, or
to answer in damages for the breach thereof, if the contract was valid and binding; but the relief must be had by
different proceedings and against different officers, or the
county itself, and not against the county treasurer. Mandamus may be petitioaers' remedy, but under the facts
alleged it must be against different officers than the county
treasurer." 197 Alabama, 384.
Thus resting its decision exclusively upon the question of
procedure and the power of the particular officer against
whom the mandamus was asked as limited and defined by
the state law, we see no basis for the contention that the
action of the state court gave effect to the impairment of
the obligation of a contract in violation of the contract
clause of the Constitution. On the contrary, we are of
opinion that when correctly tested it becomes apparent
that the action of the court below involved only a ruling
upon a question of remedy resting upon considerations of
state law broad enough to sustain the conclusion reached
without any reference to the federal questions which were
raised and relied upon.
And any possible doubt on this subject, we are of opinion, is removed by the subsequent action of the court
below in the case of Board of Revenue, Shelby County, v.
Farson, Son & Co., 197 Alabama, 375, cited in the brief
of the plaintiff in error. In that case, which was an action
against the board of revenue of Shelby County to compel
the levy of the one-fourth of one per cent. tax, as provided
in the court house contract, for the purpose of paying, not
only certain warrants which were past due in 1916, but to
provide for the warrants falling due in 1917, the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

awarded the mandamus sought. In doing so, it not only
held" that the court house contract was valid and that the
agreement to levy the tax as therein stipulated was lawful, but, moreover, that the subsequent action of the board
of revenue in diverting the fund to the detriment of the
court house warrant holders was an impairment of the obligations of the contract and was void because of repugnancy to the constitution of the State and to the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States.
. It is true, indeed, that in that case the court referred
to its ruling in this case with approval, but the relief
which was denied in the one and afforded in the other
leaves no support upon which to rest the contention that
contract rights secured by the Constitution were impaired
by the ruling which was made in this case.
As our conclusion is that the federal question relied upon
as the basis for the writ of error had no foundation, it
follows that our decree must be, and it is
Writ of error dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

ANDREWS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF ANDREWS, v.
VIRGINIAN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE ROANOKE COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT, STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 82.

Argued December 16, 17, 1918.-Decided January 7, 1919.

A judgment of the. Circuit Court of Virginia is not final for the purpose of review in this court while reviewable at discretion by the
Court of Appeals of the State.
Thereforp, a case by its nature reviewable here only by certiorari
under the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, in which
the Virginia CQgurt of Appeals did not finally deny a writ of error

