ORR iv. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

ORR v. ALLEN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM TilE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 288. Submitted October 14, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.
The "Conservancy Act of Ohio," designed to prevent floods, and
authorizing creation of drainage districts, and drainage improvements through administrative boards empowered to exert eminent
domain, and to tax, assess for benefits, and issue bonds, affords
full opportunity for testing private grievances judicially, and, as
correctly construed by the court below, is consistent with the state
and federal constitutions.
245 Fed. Rep. 486, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert J. Smith for appellant.
Mr. Oren Britt Brown for appellees.
McMahon was also on the brief.
Memorandum opinion by THE

Mr. John A.

CHIEF JUSTICE.

The "Conservancy Act of Ohio" is the name given the
statute by its first section. Its seventy-nine sections are
thus epitomized in the title: "To prevent floods, to protect cities, villages, farms and highways from inundation, and to authorize the organization of drainage and
conservation districts." Ohio Gen. Code, §§ 6828-1 to
6828-79; Laws of Ohio, vol. 104, p. 13. The statute
was admittedly designed to prevent the recurrence of
the unprecedented and disastrous flood which invaded
the Miami Valley in 1913. Briefly, there was provision
for drainage districts, for boards to plan, construct and
maintain the works contemplated, with the right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.,
' Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

exert eminent domain, and to raise money by taxation,
by assessments for benefits, and, in some cases, by issue
of bonds. Every person affected who was aggrieved was
undoubtedly given ample means by the statute to test
judicially his grievance.
A district was organized embracing land along each
side of the Miami River which had been flooded in 1913
or which was required for reservoir sites or for furnishing
material.
The appellant, a citizen of California owning property
within this district, filed his bill to enjoin the enforcement of the statute on the ground that it was repugnant
to both the constitution of the State and that of the
United States. The court, organized under § 266 of the
Judicial Code, in a careful and clear opinion disposcd
adversely of every proposition upon which the contention
was based. The injunction was refused. This direct
appeal was taken.
All the contentions rest upon one or the other or both
of two propositions; (1) That the statute is unconstitutional because of some particular provision relied upon;
and (2) because of the inherent want of constitutional
authority by Government to exert the powers which
the statute gave. The first assumes that the statute
has a significance which the Supreme Court of Ohio has
expressly decided it has not, and, in addition, that the
constitution of the State forbids the exertion of a legislative power which the same court has expressly held
th legislature possessed. The second disregards a line
of conclusive decisions of this court which leave nothing
open for controversy, or, which is tantamount thereto,
separates expressions in opinions of this court from their
context in order to give to them a meaning which the
opinions do not sanction and which it has been repeatedly
declared would be inconsistent with the decided cases.
Thus concluding, we think nothing is required to dis-

BLISS CO. i,. UNITED STATES.
35.

Syllabus.

pose of the controversy but to cite the two lines of cases
referred to. (1) Snyder v. Deeds, 91 Ohio St. 407; Miami
County v. Dayton, 92 Ohio St. 215; County Commissioners
v. Gates, 83 Ohio St. 19, 34; State ex rel. Franklin County
Conservancy District v. Valentine, 94 Ohio St. 440; (2)
Houck v. Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254,
262, and cases cited.
Affirmed.

E. W. BLISS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 15.

Argued November 20, 21, 1918.-Decided December 9, 1918.

In a contract for supplying torpedoes, the manufacturer agreed with
the Government not to make use of any device the design for which
was furnished to it by the United States, in torpedoes constructed
for other persons or governments, and not to disclose such devices,
but no device or design was to come within the prohibition unless
so designated in writing by the Government at the time when it was
conveyed to the manufacturer.
HIeld: (1) That the obligation to secrecy was not confined to devices
which were' secret, or to inventions by the United States, but extended to such as were furnished-communicated with certainty-,
and designated for secrecy, by the United States, even where the
design was subsequently worked out by employees of the manufacturer. Pp. 43-48.
(2) That injunction against disclosure should be confined to devices
in use, but without prejudice to the right of the Government to
enjoin disclosure of others, upon proof of intention to make use of
them. P. 48.
Davison patent relating to propulsion of torpedoes construed. P. 44.
224 Fed. Rep. 325; 229 Fed. Rep. 376, modified and affirmed.

TH9 case is stated in 'the opinion.

