CORDOVA v. GRANT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

409.

the act, of which it is a part, and construed alone, supports the contention of the appellees." The language
gains, we think, not loses in strength from its location.
It makes evident that there was a conscious contrast
of provision between the grants and the companies.
Decree affirmed.

CORDOVA v. GRANT, EXECUTOR OF COTTON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 104.

Submitted December 18, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

Plaintiff claimed, under the laws of Texas, land lying between the
present and former beds of the Rio Grande. Defendant,. claiming
under Mexican grants, set up that, as plaintiff's title dependmd Mn
whether the international boundary had shifted with the river, and
as our government, though claiming and exercising de facto jurisdiction over the locus, conceded the true boundary to be unsettled,
and by its treaties and acts with Mexico had agreed upon a comiission with exclusive jurisdiction to settle it, the courts were thereby
deprived of jurisdiction, atid the case should be dismissed or the trial
stayed until the boundary should be established. Our government
had rejected the action of a commission which sat under the last of
the treaties referred to, and haaI waived objection, based on comity,
to the litigation. Held, that the District Court bad jurisdiction and
might properly proceed with the case, and that its holding to that
effect did not involve the validity or construction of a treaty. P. 419.
Writ of error dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank G. Morris for plaintiff in error:
It is manifest from the whole course of the pleadings and
the evidence and the requested charges refused, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

248 U. S.

exception to the peremptory charge for plaintiff, that the
sole question of title at issue drew in question a construetion of the boundary treaty of 1889 and the arbitration
treaty of 1910, and the action of the arbitrators thereunder
and the status of the matters involved in the treaty after
the award of June 15th, 1911. It was conceded by the
plaintiff in error in his pleadings in the court below that,
but for the qualification and limitations as to the effect
of the de facto jurisdiction exercised in the territory in
question by the United States, the exercise of jurisdiction by this government to the Rio Grande, as it at present runs, would express an unqualified determination and
decision by the political department of the government
that the international boundary followed the present
chAnnel of the river, which decision would in that case
be binding on the courts.
But it was contended by plaintiff in error that the treaties mentioned gave chaxacter to the jurisdiction exercised
by the United States, in that the two governments in
said conventions treated the international boundary as
an open question, to be thereafter determined amicably
between them. They said substantially to each other
that neither would undertake to decide for itself the true
location of the boundary, and that the United States, in
virtue of the treaty provisions, might police the territory
in question pending a decision by the respective governments. These treaties, therefore, so qualified the jurisdiction exercised 'by the United States that it.
did not express a decision by this government that the channel
of the present river, or any location south or west of
the channel of .the Rio Grande of 1852, constituted
the true boundary. Hence the contentions arose on the
treaty:
1. That as the treaties withdrew from the courts of the
respective nations the power to decide the'boundary
question in cases wherein the title to lands would neces-

CORDOVA v. GRANT.
413.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sarily depend upon the location of the international
boundary, the courts could not decidq the titles to lands
depending on the boundary until the respective governments should decide the location of the boundary.
2. That if the courts of the United States might, for
the purpose of trying titles to land in the territory in
question, undertake to decide whether the Rio Grande
had receded from its position in 1852 by gradual and slow
erosion of the Mexican banks of the river and deposit
of alluvium on the American side, the court could not,
as it might have done in the absence of the treaty provisions mentioned, presume, from the exercise of de facto
jurisdiction by this government up to the present channel
of the river, that the political department of this government had decided that the change was such as to make the
land on the north or east of the river American -soil and
therefore accretions to the plaintiff's abutting lands. The
courts in the United States take hotice of treaties and
adjudicate rights accruing under them. If the court might
try the case it should therefore try it as an ordinary
boundary suit between individuals which would require
the plaintiff to prove that he had acquired land by accretion. The treaties precluded him from relying on presumptions arising from actions of the political department of the government which were so qualified by the
treaties as not to afford the presumption on which plaintiff
below relied.
Furthermore, the defendant below relied upon the decision of the Arbitration Commission that the international boundary was the channel of the river of 1864,
which was further south and west than the channel of
1852 but not so far south or west as the present channel
of the Rio Grande. This contention necessarily involved
a construction of the treaty of 1910 as to the powers of
the commission and as to the effect of their award under
the treaty. And this contention is not dispelled by re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

248 U. S.

ferring to the acts of the executive department in refusing
to enforce the award. It was not void on its face, and may
be made certain by a survey. If so, the executive alone
could not nullify the decision or take its effect from the
courts when the award comes in question where private
rights are involved. Foster & Elam v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253.
The cases of Warder v. Loomis, 197 U. S. 619, and
Warder v. Cotton, 207 U. S. 582, are memorandum decisions which giye no statement as to what questions were
properly raised in them.
Under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code there are no rules of
pleading or requirement that the federal question be
specially set up or pleaded as was required under some of
ttie statutes. Whether a construction of a treaty is by
appropriate procedure drawn in question in a trial at
law in a district court of the United States or not, must
depend on the application to the case of the state procedure
and practice in which the court is located.
Mr. Walter B. Grant and Mr. T. J. Beall for defendant
in error:
Although the answer of defendant and request for instruction in effect refer to the treaty of 1910, and to the
action of the boundary commissioners thereunder, the
facts show that no question as to its validity or construction is raised. The question being a political one, the
case is not reviewable under clause 4 of ยง 238, Jud. Code.
Mere allegations not based upon facts, showing wherein
the construction and validity of the treaty are drawn in
question, do not create a case under that clause. Budzisz
v. Illinois Steel Co., 170 U. S. 41.
Neither the trial court nor this court has jurisdiction
to determine whether the changes in the river left the
land territory of the United States or of Mexico. It was
admitted that the United States and Texas have, since
the land was formed, exercised government control and

CORDOVA v. GRANT.
413.

Opinion of the Court.

political jurisdiction. It was also shown that the State
Department, through an officer appointed for the purpose with the assent of Mexico, had determined that
defendant had failed to exhibit such prima facie Mexican
title as was contemplated by the agreement for protection of the status quo, and that there was no occasion to
interfere with the action. The boundary question is
purely a political one.
Warder v. Loomis, 197 U. S. 619, and Warder v. Cotton,
207 U. S. 582, involved the identical question concerning the land involved in this suit, or land adjacent
thereto.
A question of international boundary is for the political
departments, and their action binds the courts, leaving
no constitutional or treaty question open for judicial
determination.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of trespass to try title to land in Texas
lying between the present and former bed of the Rio
Grande. The plaintiff (the present defendant in error)
alleged that his testator and those under whom the latter
claimed had held the land under color of title from the
State of Texas for the several statutory periods of limitation, and that the defendant unlawfully entered when
the plaintiff had the legal title in possession as devisee.
The jurisdiction of the District Court was based upon
diversity of citizenship. The defendant pleaded that the
plaintiff's title depended upon whether the land was
within the United States, and that that depended upon
whether the Rio Grande, established as the boundary in
1852, had changed its channel in such a way as to continue
to be the boundary or not-the land in question having
been upon the Mexican side of the river in 1852 and now
being on the side of the United States. The defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

248 U. S.

went on to allege that while the United States now exercises a de facto jurisdiction over the territory where the
land lies, it does so with the admission by treaty and diplomatic correspondence that the boundary is unsettled, and
that "the treaties and acts of the respective governments
placing said boundary disputes within the jurisdiction of
certain special authorities, of which this court must take
judicial notice, must necessarily have deprived the courts
of each of said republics of jurisdiction," &c. On this
ground it was prayed that the Court either dismiss the
case or stay the trial until the boundary should be established. Subject to this the defendant pleaded not guilty
and the ten years statute of limitation of Texas. The
plaintiff demurred to the plea to the juiisdiction as showing on its face that the United States and Texas were exercising de facto jurisdiction over the land; set up that it
was agreed between the United States and Mexico that
Mr. Wilbur Keblinger should decide what lands in the disputed territory were proper subjects of litigation in the
Courts of the United States and of Texas, that he had decided this land to be such, and that his finding had been
acquiesced in by both governments. He further alleged
that the Government of the United States always had
claimed and now claims the land as belonging to, the
United States, and he denied all the defendant's allegations of fact.
It was agreed that the patents from the State of Texas
under which the plaintiff claimed bounded the grants on
the Rio Grande, and that if the additions now in controversy had been made by accretion, they belonged to the
plaintiff. It also was admitted, and agreed that the Court
in deciding upon the demurrer might notice, that the
United States, the State of Texas and the County and
City of El Paso were then and for many years before exercising government control and political jurisdiction over
the property in question and that the United Sfates and

CORDOVA m,.GRANT.
413.

Opinion of the Court.

State had enforced their laws over the whole of the same.
It was agreed further that the Court might take notice
of the correspondence between the Secretary of State, the
Mexican Ambassador and Keblinger, the opinion of the
Boundary Commission, and the action of the United States
thereon. It appeared from the documents that the United
States, while admitting that the boundary line was in
question between the two countries, never had admitted
any derogation of its de facto jurisdiction over the tract;
that it had suggested to the federal courts that as a matter
of comity they should not put into execution writs of
ejectment, &c., against persons alleging Mexican titles,
but that it found it necessary to limit this comity so as
to exclude from it persons who had no prima facie Mexican titles in order to stop occupation by squatters who
were taking advantage of the Government's forbearance.
Keblinger was appointed to determine what persons
showed a prima facie title. He decided against the defendant and with the sanction of the Government informed the plaintiff that the Government would not object if he should proceed.
The District Court sustained the demurrer to the plea to
the jurisdiction and the only color of right to bring the case
to this Court by direct appeal consists in a suggestion that
the construction of a treaty is involved.
The decision of a Court that it has jurisdiction on the
ground taken W:J the demurrer simply means that the
Court finds the Government in fact asserting its authority over the territory and will follow its lead. It does not
matter to such a decision that the Government recognizes
that a foreign power is disputing its right and that it is
making efforts to settle the dispute. The reference to
Keblinger and his finding are important only as showing
that there is no present requirement of comity to refrain
from exercising the jurisdiction which in any event the
Courts possess. Jurisdiction is power and matter of fact.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

248 U. S.

The United States has that power and the Courts may
exercise their portion of it unless prohibited in some constitutional way.
If the passage quoted from the answer is sufficient to
open the contention that treaties had contracted for the
establishment of a boundary commission with exclusive
jurisdiction and so had prohibited the Courts from dealing
with the question, neither the validity nor the construcquestion; or if an attenution of any treaty was drawn in,
ated question can be discovered it is no more than formal.
A commission sat under the last of the treaties and its
action was rejected by the Government as abortive. As
the Government had withdrawn its suggestion of comity
so far as the present case is concerned, there was no reason
why the Court should not proceed to trial, and there is no
reason why the present writ should not be dismissed as it
was in Warder v. Loomis, 197 U. S. 619, and in Warder v.
Cotton, 207 U. S. 582. It follows that some other questions
argued cannot be discussed.
Writ of errordismissed.

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 357.. Argued November 5, 6, 1918.-Decided January 13, 1919.

The transportation of liquor upon the person, and for the personal use,
of an interstate passenger, is "interstate commerce." P. 424.
Under the power to regulate interstate commerce, Congress may forbid
the interstate transportation of intoxicating liquor without regard
to the policy or law of any State. P. 425.
The "Reed Amendment," ยง 5, Act of March 3, 1917, c. 162, 39 Stat.
1058, 1069, provides: "Whoever shall order, purchase, or cayuse in-

