LIE v. SAN FRANCISCO & PORTLAND S. S. CO.
243 U. S.

291

Opinion of the Court.

LIE, MASTER OF THE NORWEGIAN STEAMSHIP
"SELJA," &c. v. SAN FRANCISCO & PORTLAND
STEAMSHIP COMPANY, CLAIMANT OF THE
AMERICAN STEAMSHIP "BEAVER," &c.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 110.

Argued December 21, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1917.

When a steam vessel proceeding in a fog hears apparently forward of
her beam the fog signal of another vessel whose position is not ascertained, the duty to stop the engines, if the circumstances admit,
is imperative, under Article 16 of the International Regulations for
preventing collisions at sea, adopted by the Act of August 19, 1890,
26 Stat. 320, and effective July 1, 1897, 29 Stat. 885.
A negligent breach of this statutory duty, contributing directly to
cause a collision, is not excusable upon the ground that the vessel
was navigated in accordance with what would have been good
seamanship had not the duty been imposed.
When a collision is attributable to the palpable negligence of both
masters, the negligence of each continuing to operate as an efficient
cause until the moment when the accident occurs, the doctrine of
major and minor fault does not apply.
219 Fed. Rep. 134, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edmund B. McClanahan, with whom Mr. S. Ha8ket
Derby and Mr. L. Russell Alden-were on the briefs, for
petitioner.

Mr. J. Parker Kirlin for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
On his own behalf and on behalf of the owners, officers
and crew of the Norwegian steamship "Selj a," the peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

tioner, Olaf Lie, her master, instituted this suit in admiralty against the American steamship "Beaver" to
recover for ,the loss of the "Selja," her equipment and the
personal effects of her officers and crew, which was occasioned by the collision of the two ships on the afternoon
of November 22, 1910, near Point Reyes, on the California
coast. For the purposes of trial this case was consolidated
with an intervening libel by the owners of the cargo of the
"Selja" and with an independent suit by her charterers
to recover for loss of freight.
When approaching San Francisco, the end of her voyage
from Yokohama, the "Selja," a freight carrying steamship,
collided in a fog with the "Beaver," a passenger and freight
carrying steamer then on a voyage from San Francisco to
Portland, Oregon, and was so damaged that she sunk, a
total loss, in about fifteen minutes.
From one o'clock in the morning of November 22nd, the
"Selja" had been running in a fog which, for a considerable time before the collision, was so thick that it was
possible to see only about twice her length-about 800
feet.
The master of each ship makes the characteristic claim
that at the moment of collision he had his engines working
full speed astern, and each claims that his vessel was
without headway when the two came together. It is
beyond controversy, however, that the "Beaver" was
running at a rate of speed much too high for prudent
•navigation in the then prevailing fog until her master
heard the whistle of the "Selja" about three minutes
before the accident, and it is beyond controversy also
that this negligent speed contributed directly to cause the
collision. The two lower courts agree that the "Beaver"
was culpably negligent but they also find that the master
of the "Selja" was likewise negligent in the navigation
of his ship in a manner which contributed directly to
bring about the accident, and therefore, while allowing

LIE v. SAN FRANCISCO & PORTLAND S.S. CO.
243 U. S.

293

Opinion of the Court.

recovery by the owners and underwriters of the cargo,
by the charterers of the "Selija" and by her other officers
and crew, they decreed that, apportioning the damages
suffered by the owner and master of the "Selja" and by
the owner of the "Beaver," under the usual rule of cross
liabilities, there could be no recovery by the master, Lie,
personally, or by the owners of the "Selja," and it is from
this denial of the right to recover by Lie and by the owners
of the "Selja" and from the order as to the payment of
costs that this appeal is prosecuted.
The petitioner claimed in the courts below and in this
court still claims, that if the master of the "Selja" was
negligent at all, which is denied, his negligence was of such
a character and had so spent its effect long before the accident, that in the most unfavorable view that can be
taken of it was a remote and not a proximate cause of
the collision and that, therefore, the "Beaver" being
palpably negligent, he has a lawful right to recover.
The master of the "Selja" admits that he. heard, what
ultimately proved to be the warning fog whistle of the
"Beaver," at three o'clock, and therefore the ships must
be considered as within the danger zone from that time
forward, and the decision of the case turns upon what
was done by the two vessels during the sixteen minutes
which elapsed between three o'clock and the moment of
collision.
There is all of the customary conflict between the stories
told by the officers of the respective vessels, but we think
that a correct and just decision of the case may be arrived
at by accepting the statements of the master of the
"Selja," as they appear in various parts of the record.
His narrative of what occurred during the fateful sixteen minutes after three o'clock may be condensed into
the following:
At three o'clock I was running at half speed (six knots
an hour) axid very shortly after that I heard for the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

time "a whistle about right ahead "-" dead ahead"Which prov~l to be the whistle of the "Beaver." "It
sounded faint, but distinct," and I could then see only
about two lengths of my ship (about 800 feet). The sea
was calm, with a long westerly swell, there were no noises
on the ship to interfere with my hearing the whistle,
which blew at intervals of 56 or 57 seconds and for five
seconds each time. When I first heard the whistle it
sounded far away, and "it just came into my mind that
it might be one of the fog horns off the Golden Gate,"
at Point Bonita, about twenty miles away. After I heard
the whistle the third time I commencedto time it and continued to do so until five minutes past three o'clock, when
I concluded that it was the whistle of an approaching
steamer, and I reduced speed from half speed (six knots)
to slow speed (three knots an hour) because "I considered
that sixknots was not moderate enough under the circumstances."- I did not stop my engines when I first
heard the whistle or when I concluded that it was that of
an approaching st eamer "because the sound was located
as good as it could be located in the fog and showed absolutely no danger of a collision." (This statement is twice
repeated in the testimony.) "I was familiar with the international rule which requires a steamer to stop in a fog."
During the entire fifteen minutes before the accident I
heard the whistle of the "Beaver" blow every 56 or 57
seconds and for five seconds at a time, and the "Selj a"
blew one single blast between each two blasts of the" Beaver's" whistle-!-I "answered his whistle" from three o'clock
until the collision. My engines were reduced to slow speed
at fi-e minutes after three o'clock, and they 'were kept at
this speed-three knots an hour-until 3.10 o'clock when
they were stopped., At 3.13 my ship still had steerage
way upon her and at 3.14 she was not quite at a standstill,
but was still moving a little through the water and I
intended to answer the "Beaver's" next whistle with

LIE 'v. SAN FRANCISCO & PORTLAND S. S. CO.
243 U. S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

two blasts of my whistle, which would have meant that
my boat was stopped and had no way upon her. I did
not tell my third officer to blow the two whistles as, I
intended to do "because the 'Beaver' loomed in sight
and I saw her blow three whistles." I mean "I saw steam
come out of his whistle and I heard it, of course, at the
same time." "She loomed in sight and the three whistles
were almost at the same time." When I saw and heard
the three whistles from the "Beaver" I told my third
officer to blow three whistles, and I rang, "full speed
astern" on my engine at the same time. I noticed that
the "Beaver" was coming fast by the way she cut the
water. I was watching the "Beaver" carefully and I
thought probably she would pass wide of me, her starboard side was ,widening all the time and I was watching
her. I. first saw the "Beaver" approaching at about'3.15.
She was then about 900 feet away and about a- minute
after, the collision came.
The foregoing statements of fact, are as favorable to the
petitioner as he can possibly deserve. They leave out of
account a number of statements claimed to have been
made by him; to the master of the "Beaver" immediately
after the accident; to the agent of the company which
had the "Selj a" under charter on the day after the accident, and to the United States inspector of steam vessels
on the second day after the accident, all of which are in
serious conflict with, and are much less favorable to, his
claim than the summary we have given.
In the year 1889 representatives of over thirty of the
maritime nations of the world met in convention at Washington for the purpose of discussing the international code
of rules to prevent collisions at sea, and of suggesting such
changes and modifications as experience had shown to
be necessary. The recommendations of this convention
were adopted by Act of Congress of August 19, 1890
(26 Stat. 320), became effective by'proclamation of the

OCTO3ER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

President (29 Stat. 885), on the first day of July, 1897,
and have been operative ever since.
Of these rules the, following is applicable to the case we
are considering:
"Art. 16. Every vessel shall, in a fog, mist, falling snow,
or heavy rain-storms, go at a moderate speed, having
careful regard to the existing circumstances and conditions.
"A steam vessel hearing, apparently forward of her
beam, the fog-signal of a vessel the position of which is not
ascertained shall, so far as the circumstances of the case
admit, stop her engines, and then navigate with caution
until danger of collision is over."
The most cursory reader of this rule must see that while
the first paragraph of it gives to the navigator discretion
as to what shall be "moderate speed" in a fog, the command of the second paragraph is imperative that, he shall
stop his engines when the conditions described confront
him. The difficulty of locating the direction or source
from which sounds proceed in a fog, renders it not necessary to dwell upcin the purpose and obvious wisdom of
this second paragraph of the rule.
Mr. Justice Brown, an experienced admiralty lawyer,
but repeated the expression of many cases, which finds
new illustration in the mistake in this case made by the
master, Lie, in determining the location and the distance
of the "Beaver," when he said, in The Umbria, 166 U. S.
404, 408: "It is difficult to locate the exact position of a
vessel in a, fog, and still nore difficult to determine her
course and distance." And the Circuit Court of Appeals
in this case expresses the result of testimony constantly
met with in the trial of such cases when it says: "The
cases are very numerous in which the approaching whistle
which sounded far off was really very close, and in which
the sound seemed to come from one direction, while in
fact it came from another. Indeed, it is a matter of com-

LIE v. SAN FRANCISCO & PORTLAND S. S. CO.
243 U. S.

297

Opinion of the Court.

mon knowledge that sounds in a dense fog are very deceptive."
It is enough to say that this second paragraph is an
addition to the former rule for preventing collisions at sea,
which the International Conference recommended, after
full discussion by the most intelligent seafaring men of
many nations; that, at the time of the collision, obedience
to it was commanded by Act of Congress and by the law
of the country under the flag of which the "Selja" was
sailing, and that if it had been obeyed the collision would
not have occurred.
By his own statement, as we have epitomized it, Lie,
the master of the "Selja," confesses that when he first
heard the whistle of the "Beaver" he realized that it was
"forward of the beam" of his ship, and although it is
plain that he was not able to ascertain the position of the
yessel from which the danger warning came, for he thought
it the whistle at Point Bonita, twenty miles away, yet
he not only did not stop his engines, as required, but, on
the contrary, he continued to run them for five minutes
following at half speed (6 knots an hour) in thick fog,
until each succeeding whistle of the "Beaver" sounding
nearer than the one before, at length convinced him that
it was the whistle of an approaching steamer. But even
then, when convinced that the danger signals. which he
had been hearing repeated at one minute intervals for
five minutes were from an approaching steamer still
"forward of his beam," he did not obey the rule by stopping his engines, but contented bimself with reducing
his speed to slow, three knots an hour, not out of deference to the rule of law, but because, as he says "I considered that six knots was not moderate enough under
the circumstances," and this speed he continued for five
minutes longer, until ten minutes past three, when, at
length, he ordered his engines stopped, with the result,
he is obliged to confess, that at 3.14, two minutes before

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the collision, his ship still had steerage way upon her,
"was not quite at a standstill," and a moment later the
crash came. It is of no avail for this master to say that at
the instant of the accident he thinks the momentum of his
ship had been overcome, and that she was commencing
to move backward in response to the "full speed astern"
order, which had been given during the instant that had
elapsed between the appearance of the "Beaver" through
the fog and the coming of the ships together, for the evil
had been done and the collision rendered inevitable.
When it is considered that the statement of the master
of the "Selja" as to the moment when he gave the order
to reduce speed from half to slow, and then from slow to stop, and then from stop to full speed astern, are all
but approximations, arrived at after the disaster -to his
ship had occurred, when every possible influence, conscious and unconscious, was operating to induce' a recollection favorable to the conclusion he most desired, it is
not possible in the administration of practical justice to
avoid the conclusion that the effect of the wilful disobedience of this imperative and important statutory rule of
law, which should have governed his conduct, continued
as an effective force, operating on the movement of his
vessel to the instant of collision, driving her forward
steadily, even though in the last moments slowly, to the
fateful point of intersection of the courses of, the two ships.
Such a state of fact makes sharply applicable the conclusion of this court in The Pennsyvlania, 19 Wall. 125:
"But when, as in this case, a ship at the time of a collision
is in actual violation of a statutory rule intended to prevent
collisions, it is no more than a reasonable presumption
that the fault, if not the sole, cause, was at least a contributory cause of the disaster. In such a case the burden
rests upon the ship of showing, not merely that her fault
might not have been one of the causes, or that it probably'
was not, but that it could not have been."

MEMPHIS STREET RY. CO. v. MOORE.
243 U. S.

299

Syllabus.

The record before us not only fails to show that the fault
of the "Selj a" might not have been one of the causes of
the accident, or that it probably was not, or that it could
not have been one of the causes of it, but, on the contrary,
it clearly shows, as we have seen, that the negligent failure
to observe the statutory rule contributed directly to cause
the collision.
The case is not one for the application of refinements as
to what would have been good seamanship without the,
rule, such as we are invited in argument to consider, nor
is it a case for consideration of the doctrine of major and
minor fault. Both of the masters were palpably negligent in respects which contributed directly to cause the
collision; the negligence of each continued to operate as an
efficient cause until the moment when the accident occurred, and we agree with the lower courts that the case
is one in which the master and owner of the "Selj a" must
be left to suffer their self-inflicted loss.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

MEMPHIS STREET RAILWAY COMPANY
MOORE, ADMINISTRATOR OF DOUGLAS.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 623.

Argued January 29, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

Where no conflict with the Federal Constitution or laws is involved,
a construction of a state statute'by the highest court of the State
is accepted by this court as conclusive.
The act of Tennessee providing that when nonresidents qualify in the
State as the personal representatives of decedents dying and leaving
assets therein such nonresidents. shall be treated as citizens of the

