PEASE v. RATHBUN-JONES ENG. CO.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

PEASE v. RATHBUN-JONES ENGINEERING
COMPANY.
PEASE ET AL. v. RATHBUN-JONES
ENGINEERING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 360, 419.

Submitted January 8, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

Objection going to the form of the District Court's decree, if not taken
on a first appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, may be deemed
waived on a second.
A decree of the District Court that plaintiff "do have and recover"
a stated sum, with provisions establishing a lien and for foreclosure,
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals with directions that
"such execution and further proceedings be had as according to
right and justice, and the laws of the United States, ought to be had."
Held, that a decree of the District Court directing foreclosure sale,
and that execution issue for any deficiency, was consistent with,
and did not exceed, the affirmance.
The amount of deficiency being fixed by the sale, the insertion of the
amount in the execution was but a clerical act.
Under Rev. Stats. of Texas, Art. 1206, a suit against a corporation is
not abated by its dissolution pending appeal.
Federal courts sitting in equity may render summary judgment against
sureties on appeal bonds.
Such practice does not invade the constitutional right of trial by jury;
nor is it objectionable upon the ground that the legal remedy, by
action on the bond, is adequate.
While it is the proper and usual practice in such cases to give notice
to the surety,-Qumre, Whether notice is always essential?
Objections that a summary judgment on an appeal bond was not preceded by notice and deprived the sureties of the right of trial by
jury are waived by invoking the trial court's decision of the merits
upon an undisputed state of facts.
Quire: Whether Rule 29 of this court-Rule 13, 5th C. C. A.-intends that the sureties on a supersedeas bond shall not be bound to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

pay deficiency decrees in foreclosure cases, but shall pay only the
costs and damages resulting from the delay caused by the appeal?
A money decree against a corporation and its sureties on a supersedeas
bond, followed by levy, was satisfied by a payment made by one of
the sureties "as trustee for himself and the other stockholders"
of the corporation. ' The record not showing that the surety paid
as such, in satisfaction of his own liability, Held, that the sureties
had no standing to complain of the decree, since satisfaction, by the
principal obligor, ended their liability.
228 Fed. Rep. 273, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Perry J. Lewis and Mr. Frank H. Booth for peti-.
tioners.
Mr. Carlos Bee for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIms delivered the opinion of the
court.
Pease and Heye were sureties on a supersedeas bond
given on appeal to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals in a suit to foreclose a vendor's lien. The District
Court for the Southern District of Texas had entered a
decree against the People's Light Company, declaring
that Rathbun-Jones Engineering Co. "do have and recover" $6,804.90 with interest; establishing a lien on certain personal property; and directing that it be sold to
satisfy the judgment, if the same be not paid within sixty
days. The appellate court affirmed the decree. 218 Fed.
Rep. 167. The mandate directed that the defendant and
the sureties "pay the costs of this cause in this Court,
for which execution may be issued out of said District
Court," and "commanded that such execution and further
proceedings be had in said cause as according to right and
justice, and the laws of the United States, ought to be
had." Thereupon the District Court, apparently without
notice having been given specifically to sureties, entered its

PEASE v. RATHBUN-JONES ENG. CO.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"decree on mandate."

This decree ordered "that said

mandate be made the judgment of this Court"; that a sale
be made as herein provided" to satisfy said judgment" and
that "in the event said property does not sell for sufficient
amount to satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, the
clerk of this Court issue execution against the defendant
and against the sureties on the appeal bond,
for any deficiency that may remain."
The sale was had. Pease being the highest bidder, purchased all the property for a sum which, when applied upon
the judgment, left a large deficiency. Immediately after
the sale and before execution issued, Pease and Heye's
administratrix (he having died pending the appeal) filed,
in the District Court, a motion that execution be stayed
and that so much of the "decree on mandate" as directed
its issue be set aside. On the same day a similar motion
was filed by the trustee in liquidation of the People's
Light Company (it having been dissolved pending the
appeal). Both motions were presented by the counsel
who had theretofore acted for the defendant. The authority of the court to issue the execution was attacked
on several grounds. Both motions alleged that the original decree contained no provision for such execution and
that it could not be enlarged on return of the mandate,
because the term had expired at which it was entered.
They alleged that the order for execution was illegal because the People's Light Company had been dissolved
and Heye had died, pending the appeal. They asserted
that the "decree on mandate" so far as it directed'the
issuance of" the execution was "wrongful and illegal,"
because it "was entered by the court without pleading,
without notice and without hearing, against, to or of these
petitioners," and "deprived them of their property without due process of law." The motion on behalf of the
sureties alleged also that they had been deprived of their
constitutional right to "trial by jury in actions at common

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

law." The prayers for relief were rested, also, on still
broader grounds, which involved directly the whole merits of the controversy. It was alleged that "the bond did
not secure, . . . the payment of the amount of said
judgment or any deficiency that might remain after the
application of the proceeds of the sale of said property,
but operated only as indemnity against damages and costs
by reason of said appeal"-and that the cokts on said
appeal had been paid. The motions, which were fully
heard upon evidence introduced by the petitioners, were
denied. An appeal was taken by all the petitioners from
this denial; and by Pease alone from the "decree on mandate." Both the decrees were affirmed on appeal; and a
rehearing was refused. 228 Fed. Rep. 273. Thereupon
petitions to this court for certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals were filed and granted.
After issue of the execution Pease instituted still another
proceeding-a suit to restrain its enforcement. But when
the injunction was denied by the District Court, the marshal made levy and Pease "as Trustee for himself and the
other stockholders of the People's Light Company" paid
to the clerk of court the balance due on the judgment.
An appeal from the denial of the injunction was dismissed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals; but review of that decree
is not sought here.
The petitioners still contend on various grounds that
the proceedings below are void for lack of due process of
law, or should be set aside for error.
First. It is contended that the "decree on mandate"
was void so far as it ordered execution to issue for any
deficiency; because that direction was not contained in the
original decree or in the mandate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals. We are referred to cases holding that the lower
court must enforce the decree as affirmed without substantial enlargement or alteration. But the original decree
ordered that the plaintiff "do have and recover" $6,804.90.

PEASE v. RATHBUN-JONES ENG. CO.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This is the customary language used in personal judgments
which are without further direction enforceable by general
execution. If the defendant desired to insist that, because the suit was a foreclosure proceeding, the decree
in this form was not proper, the objection should have
been taken on the first appeal, and not having been so
taken must be considered as waived. The "decree on
mandate" obeyed the command of the mandate "that
such execution and further proceedings be had in said
cause as according to right and justice, and the laws of
the United States, ought to be had." The amount of the
deficiency was fixed by the sale; the insertion of the
amount in the execution was but a clerical act.
Second. It is contended that all suits pending against
the People's Light Company abated upon its dissolution.
As we read the Texas statute (Rev. Stats. 1911, Art. 1206),
such a consequence is carefully avoided. It is there provided that upon dissolution the president and directors
shall be trustees of the creditors and stockholders of the
corporation "with full power to settle its affairs," and
with power "in the name of such corporation . . . to
collect all debts, compromise controversies, maintain or
This general language
defend judicial proceedings."
makes no distinction between pending 'and subsequent
"judicial proceedings," which the trustees are empowered
to maintain and defend in the corporation's name; and
there seems no reason why such a distinction should be
read into the statute. There is also the further provision
in the section that "the existence of every corporation
may be continued for three years after its dissolution
from whatever cause, for the purpose of enabling those
charged with the duty to settle upon its affairs." The
People's Light Company which takes this appeal and
gives bond for its successful prosecution. is hardly in a
position to assert that it is non-existent and incapable of
maintaining and defending pending suits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Third. It is contended that the District Court had no
power under the Constitution to render a summary judgment against the sureties upon affirmance of the decree
appealed from, and that resort should have been had to an
action at law. The method pursued has been introduced
by statute into the practice of many States, including
Texas. Rev. Civ. Stats., Art. 1627.1 , Pursuant to the requirements of the Conformity Act (Rev. Stats., ยง 914),
this practice is followed by the federal courts in actions at
law. HiriartV; Ballon, 9 Pet. 156; Gordon v. Third Na-:
tional Bank, 56 Fed. Rep. 790; Egan v. Chicago Great
Western Ry. Co., 163 Fed. Rep. 344. The constitutional
right of trial by jury presents no obstacle to this method of
proceeding, since by becoming a surety the party submits
himself "to be governed by the fixed rules which regulate
the practice of the court." Hiriart v. Ballon, 9 Pet. 156,
167. Although the adoption of state procedure is not
obligatory upon the federal courts when sitting in equity,
they have frequently rendered summary judgment against
sureties on appeal bonds.2 Some of the District Courts by
'Summary judgment was entered on appeal bonds in the following
cases: White v. Prigmore, 29 Ark. 208; Meredith v. Santa ClaraMining
Assn., 60 Cal. 617; Johnson v. Chicago & PacificElevator Co., 119 U. S.
388 (Illinois); Jewett v. Shoemaker, 124 Iowa, 561; Greer v. McCarter,
5 Kans. 17; Holmes v. Steamer Belle Air, 5 La. Ann. 523; Chappee v.
Thomas, 5 Mich. 53; Davidson v. Farrell,8 Minn. 258; Beall v. New
Mexico, 16 Wall. 535 (New Mexico); Clerk's Office v. Huffsieller, 67
N. Car. 449; Charman v. McLane, 1 Oreg. 339; Whiteside's Admr. v.
Hickman, 2 Yerg. (Tenn.) 358; Alien v. Catlin, 9 Wash. 603.
2Cases where equity courts gave summary judgment against the
sureties on appeal bonds: Woodworth v. N. W. Mut. Life Ins. Co., 185
U. S. 354; Smith v. Gaines, 93 U. S. 341; Richards v. Harrison,218 Fed.
Rep. 134 (D. C. S. D. Iowa); Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Expanded Metal
Co., 183 Fed. Rep. 568 (3rd C. C. A.), affirming Expanded Metal Co.
v. Bradford, 177 Fed. Rep. 604; Perry v. Tacoma Mill Co., 152 Fed.
Rep. 115 (9th C. C. A.); Empire State, etc., Developing Co. v. Hanley,
136 Fed. Rep. 99 (9th C. C. A.); Brown v. N. W. Mut. Life Ins. Co.,
119 Fed. Rep. 148 (8th C. C. A.).

PEASE v. RATHBUN-JONES ENG. CO.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

formal rule of court require the bond to contain an express
agreement that the court may, upon notice to the sureties,
proceed summarily against them in the original action or
suit. See Rule 91, Ariz. Dist. Court Rules, adopted
March 5, 1912; Rule 90, Wash. Dist,. Court Rules, 1905.
But this is not a general provision; nor is it a necessary
one. For, as this court has said, sureties become quasiparties to the proceedings, and subject themselves to the
jurisdiction of the court, so that summary judgment may
be rendered on their bonds. Babbitt v. Finn, 101 U. S. 7,
15. The objection that a court of equity has no jurisdiction because there is an adequate remedy at law on the
bond is not well taken. A court of equity, having jurisdiction of the principal case, will completely dispose of its incidents and put an end to further litigation. Applying this
principle equity courts, upon the dissolution of an injunction, commonly render a summary decree on injunction
bonds.'
Fourth. It is contended that notice was not given to the
surety of the motion for summary judgment. It is a proper
and usual practice to give such notice; but it may be questioned whether notice is always essential. See United
Surety Co. v. American Fruit Product Co., 238 U. S. 140;
Johnson v. Chicago & Pacific Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388.2
1 Cases where it was held that courts of equity might render summary
judgment on injunction bonds: Russell V. Farley, 105 U. S. 433, 445;
Lea v. Deakin, 13 Fed. Rep. 514 (C. C. N. D. Ill.); Lehman v. M'Quown,,
31 Fed. Rep. 138 (C. C. Colo.); Coosaw Mining Co. v. Farmers'Mining
Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 107 (C. C. S. C.); Tyler Mining Co. v. Last Chance
Mining Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 15 (9th C. C. A.); Cimiotti Unhairing Co.
v. American FurRefining Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 171 (C. C. N. J.). A few
of the Districts have a rule of court providing that damages upon dissolution of an injunction "may be assessed in the same proceeding,
either'by the court or by reference to a master and judgment entered
in the same action against the sureties on the bond." See Ark., West.
D. Rule XVI, as amended to Feb. 27, 1908; Ark., East D. Rule XIV,
as amended to Oct. 1, 1915.
2 Cases showing the usual practice of giving to the sureties notice of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Furthermore, the last two objections, if originally well
taken, were waived or cured by the subsequent proceedings. For the motions filed later invoked a decision by the
court upon the question of the sureties' liability on the
evidence presented by them; and no relevant fact was in
dispute. There was no issue to submit to a jury, even if
the sureties had been otherwise entitled thereto. After
thus voluntarily submitting their cause and encountering
an adverse decision on the merits, it is too late to question
the jurisdiction or power of the court. St. Louis & San
Francisco Ry. Co. v. McBride, 141 U. S. 127; Western
Life Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U. S. 261, 273.
Fifth. It is further contended that the District Court
erred in entering judgment against the surety for the
deficiency, instead of merely for the costs and any damages to the plaintiff resulting from the delay incident to
the unsuccessful appeal. This objection raises a more
serious, question. The supersedeas bond was in the common form, conditioned that the appellant shall "prosecute
its appeal to effect and answer all damages and costs, if
it fails to make its plea good." It has long been settled
that a bond in that form binds the surety, upon affirmance
of a judgment or decree for the mere payment of money,
to pay the amount of the judgment or decree. Catlett v.
Brodie, 9 "Wheat. 553. Rule 29 of this court-Rule 13,
5th C. C. A.-makes provision for a difference with respect
to the bond, between a judgment or decree for money not
otherwise secured, and cases "where the property in controversy necessarily follows the event of the suit, as in real
actions, replevin, and in suits on mortgages." It is not
the motion: Empire State, etc., Developing Co. v. Hanley, 136 Fed. Rep.
99; Gordon v. Third National Bank, 56 Fed. Rep. 790. Cf. Leslie v.

Brown, 90 Fed. Rep. 171. Cases in state courts holding that notice
to the suretyis not requisite: Rogers v. Brooks, 31 Ark. 194; Meredith
v. Santa Clara Mining Assn., 60 Cal. 617; Jewett v. Shoemaker, 124
Iowa, 561; PortlandTrust Co. v. Havely, 36 Oreg. 234, 245.

SWIFT & CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY RY. CO. 281
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

clear whether the purpose of the rule, in case of secured
judgments or decrees, was merely to limit the amount of
the penalty, or was also to affect the nature of the liability,
so that the sureties would be liable to answer only for
the costs, and damages actually resulting from the
delay.
We are, however, relieved from deciding this question;
because the record discloses that after the issue of the
execution complained of Pease paid the amount due "as
Trustee for himself and the other stockholders of the
People's Light Company." in other words, the record
does not show that Pease paid the amount as surety in
satisfaction of the deficiency judgment against himself.
The payment by him may have been made "as trustee,"
because before that time the corporation had been dissolved.. If this payment was made on behalf of the corporation, obviously Pease could get no benefit from a
reversal of the decree; and as the decree has been satisfied
by the principal obligor the sureties are in no danger of
further proceeding against themselves. On the facts
appearing of record the decree is, therefore,
Affirmed.

SWIFT & COMPANY v. HOCKING VALLEY RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 376.

Argued December 5, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A railroad company, under a written agreement reserving a small
annual rental and terminable on 30 days' notice, allowed a packing
company the use, for warehouse purposes, of land belonging to the
railroad and adjacent to one of its sidings, including a switch con-

