OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Syllabus.

243 U. S.

poles were started on their way to their destination in
another State or country. The beginning of the transit
which constitutes interstate commerce 'is defined in Coe
v. Errol,to be the point of time that an article is committed
to a carrier for transportation to the State of its destination, or started on its ultimate passage.' General Oil Co.
v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211, 229."
The conclusion of the court below that the defendants
were not engaged in interstate or foreign commerce when
the accident occurred is, we think, clearly demonstrated
by the reasoning by which it sustained its conclusion and
the authorities upon which it relied as above stated, and
its judgment should be affirmed.
Before concluding we observe that in view of the stipulation of the parties in the court below agreeing to the
substitution as plaintiff in error of the administrator of
Nordgard who died -while the cause was there pending,
the motion to dismiss on the ground that the writ of
error was wrongfully allowed and that the administrator
is not a proper party is based upon a mere irregularity
which was waived.
Affirmed.

BAY v. MERRILL & RING LOGGING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 165.

Argued January 30, 31, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

Upon a state of facts not substantially different from those presented
in McCluskey v. Marystille & Northern Railway Co., ante, 36, Held,
that the defendant in error in hauling its logs from its own timberlands over its own railroad to tidewater (origin, destination and
transit all being in the same State) for sale to others who subse-

BAY v. MERRILL & RING LOGGING CO.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

quently disposed of them or their manufactured products partly in
other States, was not engaged in interstate or foreign commerce, and
that the injuries suffered by the plaintiff while loading logs upon one
of defendant's cars were therefore not remediable under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act.
220 Fed. Rep. 295, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John T. Casey, with whom Mr. George F. Hannan
and Mr. Chas. R. Pierce were on the briefs, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. E. C. Hughes, with whom Mr. Maurice McMicken,
Mr. Otto B. Rupp and Mr. H. J. Ramsey were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. CHImF JUSTICE WHiT delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case is controlled by the decision in McCluskey
v. Marysville & Northern Railway Company, just decided,
ante, 36. As in that case, the suit was brought under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover damages for
injuries suffered while Bay, the plaintiff in error, was employed by the defendant on its logging railroad. The
accident which gave rise to his injuries occurred while he
was engaged in loading on a flat car on defendant's timber
land, logs which had been cut for carriage on the railroad
to tidewater at Puget Sound. The case was tried by the
same court which heard the McCluskey Case, there was a
directed verdict for the defendant on the ground that the
company was not engaged in interstate or foreign commerce when the accident occurred and the judgment
thereupon entered dismissing the suit was affirmed by the
court below on the authority of the McCluskey Case. 220
Fed. Rep. 295.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

The facts were thus stated by the court below:
"The Logging Company owned extensive tracts of
timber in Snohomish County, Washington, and was engaged solely in cutting logs on its own lands and hauling
them over its own road to the waters of Puget Sound,
where it dumped them from the cars into a boom. At
that point it sold the logs to purchasers who paid for them
there, and there took possession of them and towed them
away by tugs. The most of the logs were sold to near-by
mills on the Sound, which were engaged in the manufacture of lumber, and this lumber, when manufactured, was
for the most part ultimately disposed of and shipped to
points outside of the State of Washington. In addition
to these transactions in logs, the Logging Company had
at times taken out some poles, which also it sold and delivered at its boom to the National Pole Company, a purchaser which did business at Everett, and which bought
and paid for the poles after they were delivered in the
water, and thereafter sold them for shipment to California.
The road is a standard gauge logging railroad, and is
operated as a part of the logging business of the defendant
in error, and is connected by switches with the Great
Northern and the Interurban roads; but those connections
are used only for the purpose of bringing supplies to the
company's logging camps. No logs or timber of any
kind were at any time transferred to these other roads.
One shipment of steel rails had gone over the logging road
for the Interurban at the time when the latter was constructing its road. For that service the actual expense of
operating the locomotive was the only charge made, and
the Interurban assumed all liability on account of accidents occurring in the transportation."
As these facts are not substantially different frofn those
presented in the McCluskey Case, it follows that the reasoning and authorities by which the court below sustained its
ruling in that .case also demonstrate the correctness of its

RAYMOND v. CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. CO.
243 U. S.

43

Counsel for Parties.

conclusion that in this case at the time the injuries were
suffered the defendant was not engaged in interstate or
foreign commerce.
Affirmed.

RAYMOND v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 636. Argued January 31, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
Plaintiff, employed by the defendant, an interstate carrier, was injured while laboring in a tunnel which was then being constructed
by the defendant in the State of Washington for the purpose of
shortening its main line between Chicago and Seattle and thus improving its freight and passenger service. The tunnel was incomplete and had never been used in interstate commerce.
Held, (1) That neither party was engaged in interstate commerce,
quoad tho injury, and that no cause of action existed under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act.
(2) That plaintiff's cause of action, viewed as arising under the state
law, was remediable only as provided by the Washington Workmen's
Compensation Act, Laws 1911, c. 74. Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, post, 219; New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, p9st, 188.
233 Fed. Rep. 239, affirmed.

THIS was an action for personal injuries begun in the
District Court of the United States for the Western District of Washington, the petition averring that the plaintiff was a citizen of that State and the defendant a foreign
corporation. The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mjr. John T. Casey, with whom Mr. Thomas J. Walsh
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

