OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

UNION NATIONAL BANK ET AL. v. McBOYLE
ET" AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.

No. 164.

Argued January 24, 25, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

The board of directors of a national bank have power under the National Bank Act to clothe the cashier with authority to sell corporate
shares which have been acquired by the bank as the result of a loan
made upon the shares as security.
Whether the rules adopted by the board of directors of a national
bank to govern its business do or do not empower the cashier to sell
corporate shares which the bank has acquired as the result of loans
upon them as collateral is a question involving the interpretation
of the rules as applied to the circumstances of the transaction, and
not a question concerning the meaning of the National Bank Act
upon 'which this court may assume jurisdiction to review a state
court's judgment.
Writ of error to review 168 California, 263, dismissed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles A. Beardsley, with whom Mr. R. M. Fitzgerald and Mr. Carl H. Abbott were on the briefs, for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. W. H. Orrick, with whom Mr. Julius Kahn, Mr.
T. C. Coogan and Mr. H. A. Powell were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.

McBoyle and his wife sued the bank to recover 599
shares of the stock of the Burnham-Standeford Company,

UNION NATIONAL BANK v. McBOYLE.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which it was alleged they had purchased from the bank
and which after payment of the cash part of the price had
been placed with it as collateral to secure a note evidencing
the credit price. It was alleged that, despite a tender of
the purchase money due, the bank had refused to deliver
the stock. Theanswer of the bank, while not denying the
sale of the stock to McBoyle, charged that the sale had
been fraudulently procured by him and besides that the
sale was void because it was made by the cashier who
was without authority to do so. It was moreover alleged
that the sale had been repudiated by the board of directors
and that there had been a tender of the cash price paid
and of the note given for the balance.
The Supreme Court of the State, in reviewing and reversing a judgment of the trial court in favor of the bank,
held that there was no proof of fraud in the sale from the
bank to McBoyle and that from a consideration of the
authority of the cashier in the light of the power conferred
upon that officer by the board of directors and the nature
and character of the transaction, the cashier had authority
to make the sale and it was therefore valid. The case was
remanded for a new trial. 162 California, 277. Before
that trial the bank amended its answer by asserting that
authority in the cashier to sell shares of stock belonging
to the bank could not be sustained without a violation
of the National Bank Law. The Supreme Court, to which
the case was again taken, in affirming a judgment of the
trial court awarding the stock to McBoyle, pointed out
that, while the National Bank Law conferred no authority
on national banks to buy stock for speculation or investment, yet such law did not prevent them from taking
stock as security for loans made in the due course of business, from realizing on the security in default of payment
of the loan and consequently when needs be from buying
in the security to protect the bank and from selling the
security after it had been bought in for the purpose of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

realizing on the same. Thus recognizing the right of the
bank consistently with the National Bank Act to acquire
the stock, and treating the power to sell it as being indisputably vested at least in the board of directors, the
court adhered to the opinion which it had previously expressed that the power in the cashier to make the sale in
question was susceptible of being deduced by fair implication from the rules adopted by the board of directors
for the government of the business of the bank and from
the circumstances of the case. 168 California, 263.
The case is here in reliance upon the federal question
supposed to have been raised by the amended answer
and the ruling just stated, that is, the asserted violation
of the National Bank Act which arose from implying from
the rules adopted by the board of directors, authority in
the cashier to make the sale. We say this because there
is no pretense that the case as presented below or as here
made raised any question concerning the power of a national bank in good faith in the due course of business
under the law to loan on capital stock as collateral and
realize on the same. But when the issue is thus accurately
fixed, it is apparent that while in mere form of expression
it may seemingly raise a question under the National
Bank Act, in substance it presents no question of that
character whatever, since it simply concerns an interpretation, not of the statute, but of the rules adopted by the
board for the government of the bank, involving, in whatever view be taken, no exercise of power beyond that
which it is conceded the National Bank Act conferred.
To illustrate, if in express terms the board of directors
had clothed the cashier with power to make the sale, there
can be no question that they would have had authority
to do so under the statute,-a conclusion which makes it
clear that the determination of whether by a correct interpretation of the rules adopted by the board, power
did or did not exist in the cashier, involves not the statute,

BOWERSOCK v. SMITH.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

but the mere significance of the rules. That, coming to
this, the contention involves no question under the National Bank Law upon which to base jurisdiction to review is so conclusively settled as not to be open. Le
Sassier v. Kennedy, 123 U. S. 521; Chemical Bank v.
City Bank of Portage, 160 U. S. 646; Union National

Bank v. Louisville, New Albany & Chicago Ry. Co.,
163 U. S. 325; Leyson v. Davis, 170 U. S. 36; Capital
National Bank v. First National Bank of Cadiz, 172 U. S.
425. It follows, therefore, that as there is nothing within
our competency to review, the writ of error must be and
it is

Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BOWERSOCK v. SMITH, ADMINISTRATRIX OF
SMITH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS..
No. 172.

Submitted February 1, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A State may by law provide for the protection of employees engaged
in hazardous occupations by requiring that dangerous machinery'
be safeguarded, and by making the failure to do so an act of negligence upon which a cause of action may be based in case of injury
or death resulting therefrom.
Consistently with due process, the State may alsoprovide that in actions brought under such a statute the doctrines of contributory
negligence, assumption of risk and fellow servant shall not bar recovery and that the burden shall be upon the defendant to show
compliance with the act.
Chapter 356 of the Laws of Kansas of 1903, Gen. Stata., 1909, §§ 46764683, as construed by the Supreme Court of the State, lays upon the
owners of manufacturing establishments an absolute duty to safeguard their machinery, makes them liable in damages for injuries

