LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v. LAYTON.
243 U. S.

617

Syllabus.

ent with law." Ever since the decision in United States
v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, 255, it has been held that an oath
administered by a state magistrate, in- pursuance of a
valid regulation of one of the departments of the Federal
Government, though without express authority from Congress, subjects the affiant to the penalties of the federal
statute against false swearing. See Caha v. United States,
152 U. S.211, 218.
The indictment charges a crime under the laws of the
United States. Judgment of the District Court is reversed
and the case is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
ET AL. v. LAYTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 840. Argued April 11, 1917.-Decided April 30, 1917.
The Georgia Employers' Liability Act, Georgia Code of 1911, ยง 2783,
eliminates the defenses of assumed risk and contributory negligence
when a violation of the Federal Safety Appliance Acts contributes
to cause the injury.
Under the Federal Safety Appliance Acts carriers in Interstate Commerce are liable in damages to their employees, injured in the discharge of duty, whenever the failure to comply with those acts is the
proximate cause of injury and without reference to the physical
position occupied by the employee or the nature of the work upon
which he is engaged at the time when the injury occurs.
So held in a case where failure of couplers to work automatically in a
switching operation resulted in a collision of cars from one of which
the plaintiff was thrown to his injury while preparing to release
brakes.
145 Georgia, 886, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Sanders McDaniel, with whom Mr. H. C. Peeples,
Mr. P. H. Brewster and Mr. E. R. Black were on the briefs,
for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Marion Smith for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff below was a switchman in the employ of
the defendants when he suffered the injury for which he
recovered the judgment which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Georgia, and which is here for review on
writ of error.
The facts essential to an understanding of the question
presented for decision are as follows:
A train of many cars standing on a switch was separated
by about two car lengths from five cars on thesame track
loaded with coal. An engine, pushing a stock car ahead
of it, came into the switch, and failed in an attempt to
couple to the five cars but struck them with such force that,
although the engine with the car attached stopped within
half a car length, the five loaded cars were driven over
the two intervening car lengths and struck so violently
against the standing train that the plaintiff, who was on
one of the five cars for the purpose of releasing the brakes,
was thrown to the track, with the result that his right arm
was crushed by the wheels and was amputated below the
elbow.
The recovery in the case was on the first count of the
petition, which alleges that the defendants were carriers
of interstate commerce and that they were negligent,
among other things, in permitting the use of the car attached to the engine and of the car to which the attempt
was made to couple it, without such cars being equipped

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v. LAYTON. 619
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with automatic couplers, which would couple by impact,
as required by law, the claim being that if the cars had
coupled when they came together the five cars of coal
would not have run down against the others, causing the
shock which threw the plaintiff under the wheels.
The purpose of this allegation with respect to automatic
couplers was to make applicable to the case the Georgia
Employers' Liability Act, which provides that an injured
employee shall not be held guilty of either contributory
negligence or of having assumed the risk when the violation of any statute enacted for his safety contributed to
his injury.
The defendants admit that they were interstate carriers of commerce and that the plaintiff was in the performance of his duty when he was thrown from the car,
as he claims, or fell, as the defendants claim, but they
deny all allegations of negligence.
On this state of pleading and of fact the court charged
the jury that before the plaintiff could recover on his allegation that the cars were not properly equipped with
automatic couplers "he must have shown to your satisfaction by a preponderance of the evidence" either that
the cars had never been equipped with proper couplers
or that, if they had been so equipped, they were in such
condition that they would not couple automatically by
impact and that such failure to so equip them contributed to cause the injury.
Upon this charge of the court the verdict was
against
the defendant and on it is based the only claim of error of
sufficient substance to be noticed.
It is admitted by the defendants that the reference in
the Georgia Employers' Liability Act to "any statute
enacted for the safety of employees" is to the Federal
Safety Appliance Act and that the charge is a proper one
if that act, as amended, is applicable to a switchman .engaged as the plaintiff was when he was injured, but the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

claim is that it is not so applicable because it is intended
only for the benefit of employees injured when between
cars for the purpose of coupling or uncoupling them. This
claim is based wholly upon the expression "without the
necessity of men going between the ends of cars," following
the automatic coupler requirement of ยง 2 of the Act of
1893, and it is urged in argument that this case is ruled
by St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co. v. Conarty, 238
U. S. 243. In that case, however, it was not claimed that
the collision resulting in the injury complained of was proximately attributable to a violation of the Safety Appliance Acts, and therefore the claim made for it cannot be
allowed.
The declared purpose of the Safety Appliance Act of
1893 (c. 196, 27 Stat. 531), and of the amendatory Acts
of 1903 and of 1910 is "to promote the safety of employees . . . upon railroads by compelling common
carriers engaged in interstate commerce to equip their
cars with automatic couplers . . . and for other
purposes," and at the..time the plaintiff was injured
these acts made it unlawful for any carrier engaged in interstate commerce to use on its railroad any car not so
equipped. Southern Railway Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.
20; Southern Railway Co. v. Railroad Commission of Indiana, 236 U. S. 439. By this legislation the qualified duty of
the common law is expanded into an absolute duty with
respect to car couplers and if the defendant railroad companies used cars which did not comply with the standard
thus prescribed they violated the plain prohibition of the
law, and there arose from that violation a liability to make
compensation to any employee who was injured because
of it. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v.
Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 295; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Ry. Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 559; Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33; Illinois Central R. R. Co.
v. Williams, 242 U. S. 462.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v. LAYTON. 621
243 U.-S.

Opinion of the Court.

While it is undoubtedly true that the immediate occasion for passing the laws requiring automatic couplers
was the great number of deaths and injuries caused to
employees who were obliged to go between cars to couple
and uncouple them, yet these laws as written are by no
means confined in their terms to the protection of employees only when so engaged. The language of the acts
and the authorities we have cited make it entirely clear
that the liability in damages to employees for failure to
comply with the law springs from its being made unlawful
to use cars not equipped as required,-not from the position the employee may be in or the work which he may
be doing at the moment when he is injured. This effect
can be given to the acts and their wise and humane purpose can be accomplished only by holding, as we do, that
carriers are liable to employees in damages whenever the
failure to obey these safety appliance laws is the proximate
cause of injury to them when engaged in the discharge of
duty. The jury found that the plaintiff's case came within
this interpretation of the statute and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Georgia must be
Affirmed.

