OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment requires but brief
notice. The due process clause does not take up the laws
of the several States and make all questions pertaining to
them constitutional questions, nor does it enable this
court to revise the decisions of the state courts upon questions of state law. Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180, 186;
Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, 112; Castillo v.
McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 683-684. The questions presented, other than those relating to the validity of the
state board's adjudication, all turned exclusively upon the
law of the State, and the state court's decision of them is
controlling. Preston v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 447; St. Louis
& Kansas City Land Co. v. Kansas City, 241 U. S. 419,
427; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S. 100, 116.
The reference to the equal protection clause evidently is
inadvertent, for there is no claim of unwarranted or
arbitrary discrimination.
It results from what has been said that the judgment is
one which is not open to review by this court.
Writ of error dismissed.

OWENSBORO, KENTUCKY, v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS COMPANY OF OWENSBORO, KENTUCKY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 79.

Argued November 8, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A city granted to a water company a franchise to construct and operate
water works, using the streets. The ordinance defined the grant as
made "for the duration of the said Company " (the grantee), but
elsewhere limited the term expressly to twenty-five years from the
passage of the ordinance; which also contained a contract for the
same period providing that, if, at the city's request, the company

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 167
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

should extend its pipes "during the said term of twenty-five years,"
the city would rent hydrants thereon "for the unexpired term of said
franchise." Some years later, the city granted a similar, substitute
franchise to a second company, successor to the first with the city's
consent, by an ordinance defining the franchise term as "for and
during the existence" of the second company, and recognizing the
latter as the successor of the first company in respect of the contract
for hydrant rental "as fully as if such existing contract had been
originally made" with the second company "without the inter-_
vention" of the first. By the law of its creation, the life of the
second company was twenty-five years primarily, with the right
(reserved in its articles) to prolong the term by twenty-five year
extensions.
Held: (1) That the life of the second franchise was not limited to
twenty-five years, but was intended to endure while the corporate
life of the grantee endured by extension beyond that period.
(2) The fact that the first franchise was expressly limited to twentyfive years while the second was granted for "the existence of the
corporation" was evidence confirming this construction.
(3) Respecting the contract concerning hydrants, the second company
became successor of the first only for the unexpired term of that
contract.
(4) That later ordinances of the city requesting pipe line extensions and
declaring that the city thereby rented the hydrants along such extensions "for the unexpired term of the franchises of the said Water
Company," and compliance by the second company with the requests so made upon it, did not import a recognition by the parties
that the franchise of that company was for a definite, known term
not to be enlarged by extension of its corporate existence, but were
referable only to the hydrant contract and its unexpired term-a
conclusion which was corroborated by the action of the parties in
ceasing to collect and pay rent for such hydrants When that term expired.
The question being whether a franchise granted by a city was limited
to twenty-five years, the period for which: the corporate grantee was
primarily organized, or was meant to accompany an extension of the
grantee's corporate life, the fact that the grantee, in former litigation
in which that question was neither material nor adjudicated, the
primary period having then some years to run, described the franchise as a franchise for twenty-five years, affords no basis for an
estoppel by conduct or by judgment; and the more clearly so where
the grantee, in the same litigation, also described the franchise as
granted for the whole period of its corporate existence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S

While in the computation of time beginning "from and after" a day
named it is usual to exclude that day and begin with the next, this
is not done where it will obviously defeat the purpose of those whose
words are being construed or applied.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George W. Jolly and Mr. Ben D. Ringo, with whom
Mr. John A. Dean, Jr., and Mr. La Vega Clements were
on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. William T. Ellis, with whom Mr. James J. Sweeney
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR.JuSTiCE VA
the court.

DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

This is a suit to enjoin the City of Owensboro, in the
State of Kentucky, from obstructing and preventing the
maintenance and operation of an existing water works
plant in that city. The plaintiff relies upon a franchise
from the city which the latter insists has expired. In the
.District Court the franchise was held to be still in force
and the city was enjoined from giving effect to an ordinance and a resolution impairing the same.
By an ordinance of September 10, 1878, the city granted
to the Owensboro Water Company,: its successors and
assigns, the privilege of constructing and operating water
works within the city and of using its public highways for
that purpose. In its first section the ordinance described
this grant as made" for the duration of the said Company"
and in another section expressly limited it to "twenty-five
years from the passage of this ordinance." Other provisions required the water company to lay and maintain
pipe lines in certain streets with a fire hydrant at each
street intersection and obligated the city to rent and pay for
the hydrants" for and during the term of twenty-five years

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 169
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from the passage of this ordinance." Availing itself of the
privilege so granted the water company constructed a
water works plant in the city and operated thesame until
June 3, 1889, when it sold the plant to the Owensboro
Water Works Company, the plaintiff in this suit. This
company is a Kentucky corporation whose original articles
of association stated that its existence was to begin on
June 1, 1889, and terminate at the end of twenty-five
years, "subject to such extensions of its term of existence
as by law provided." On June 3, 1889, shortly before the
plaintiff's purchase, the city adopted an ordinance containing the following provision, among others:
"Sec. 1. That in consideration of the purchase by the
Owensboro Water Works Company, of Owensboro, Kentucky, of the water works of the Owensboro Water Company, the franchise and license are hereby granted to the
Owensboro Water Works Company, of Owensboro, Kentucky, and to its successors and assigns, for and during
the existence of the said corporation, to maintain, complete and operate water works in the city of Owensboro for
supplying the city of Owensboro and the inhabitants of
said city and its vicinity with water for public and private
purposes, and to use within the present and future limits
of the city of Owensboro, the streets, alleys and other
public highways thereof for the purpose of laying, repairing and taking up mains, service pipes, hydrants, and
other apparatus for the supply of water."
By the second section the city accepted the plaintiff
"as the successor" of the other company in respect of "the
contract for hydrant rental" then existing between the
city and the other company "as fully as if such existing
contract had been originally made" by the city with the
plaintiff "without the intervention" of the other company;
and by the third section the city gave its consent to "the
consummation of the said purchase of the said water
works."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 V. S.

The plaintiff accepted the provisions of this ordinance,
relied upon them in consummating the purchase, and ever
since has maintained and operated the water works and
used the public highways of the city in that connection.
On May 6, 1914, the plaintiff's articles of association
were amended, conformably to the state law (Ky. Gen.
Stats. 1883, c. 56, § 7; Ky. Stats. 1903, §§ 540, 559, 574),
by adding a provision the declared purpose of which was
to extend the plaintiff's corporate existence for the period
of twenty-five years.
Whether the plaintiff now has a franchise from the city
turns chiefly upon the construction and effect of the ordinance of June 3, 1889. By it the city then said that "the
franchise and license" to maintain, complete and operate
water works in the city and to use its public highways for
that purpose "are hereby granted to the Owensboro Water
Works Company, of Owensboro, Kentucky, and to its
successors and assigns, for and during the existence of
the said corporation." Now the city claims, first, that by
the ordinance it merely assented to the purchase by the
plaintiff of the rights of the other company under the
ordinance of 1878; second, that if a franchise was granted
to the plaintiff, it was only for the life of the other company, and, third, ihat even if a franchise was granted to
the plaintiff for the period of its own existence, it was not
to endure beyond the primary term of twenty-five years
named in the plaintiff's articles of association. But none
of these claims has any support in the ordinance. Its
terms are direct and its meaning plain. In apt words its
first section not only grants a franchise to the plaintiff,
but makes the life of the franchise co-extensive with the
plaintiff's existence; and we find nothing in the ordinance
which suggests that the words fixing the duration of the
franchise are to be taken as comprehending anything less
than the full corporate existence of the plaintiff. The
right to extend its existence beyond the primary term was

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 171
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

given by statute and expressly reseryed in the articles of
association, and so it is reasonable to believe that had
there been a purpose to limit the franchise to that term it
would have been plainly expressed, as was done in the
ordinance of 1878. The reasonable implication from the
inclusion of such a limitation in the earlier ordinance and
its omission from the later one is that the franchise granted
by the latter was not to be thus limited.
Of the suggestion that under this view the franchise may
be made perpetual by repeated extensions of the plaintiff's
corporate life, it is enough to say that we are here concerned with but a single extension already effected. The
statute permitting such extensions may not be in force
when the present twenty-five year period expires, and, if
it be in force, nothing may be done under it.
Because the primary term-the first twenty-five years
-expired May 31, 1914, and the amendment to the
articles of association stated that the extension for another
twenty-five years would begin "from and after" June 1,
1914, the city insists there was a hiatus of one day between
the two periods and that in consequence the extension
never became effective. We are not impressed with this
contention. While in the computation of time that begins
to run "from and after" a day named it is usual to exclude
that day and begin with the next (Sheets v. Selden's Lessee,
2 Wall. 177, 190), this is not done where it will obviously
defeat the purpose of those whose words are being construed or applied. The purpose of the amendment was to
extend or prolong the plaintiff's corporate existence for
another twenty-five years. It was adopted almost a
month in advance of the expiration of the first twentyfive years, and, notwithstanding the use of the words
"from and after," it shows very plainly that the second
period was to begin where the first ended.. Of course those
words were not happily chosen, but as the amendment
otherwise makes it certain that the extension was to be

OCTOBER TERM, .1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

effective on and after June 1, 1914, we think the amendment accomplished its purpose and that there was no hiatus.
By the ordinance of 1878, as before shown, the other
company and the city entered into a contract respecting
fire hydrants which was to be in force for twenty-five
years from the date of the ordinance. One provision of
that contract was to the effect that, if the company
should make any extensions of its pipe lines at the city's
request "during the said term of twenty-five years," the
city would rent and pay for one hydrant at each street intersection along such extensions "for the unexpired term
of said franchise." By a special provision in the ordinance
of 1889, as we have seen, the plaintiff succeeded to the
rights and duties of the other company under that contract
as if it "had been originally made" by the city with the
plaintiff; and this meant that the succession was only for
the unexpired term of the contract. Acting under the
contract the city from 1890 to 1895 adopted seven ordinances wherein it requested that particular extensions of
the pipe lines be made by the plaintiff and declared that it
(the city) thereby rented the hydrants along such extensions "for the unexpired term of the franchises of the said
Water Company." The plaintiff accepted these ordinances and complied with the requests made in them.
The city now claims that in what was thus done both parties plainly recognized that the franchise granted to the
plaintiff was for a definite and. known term of years, and
was not to be affected by any extension of the plaintiff's
corporate existence. But we think this claim disregards
what was intended by the word "franchise" in the seven
ordinances. They not only related to the same subject
as did the contract of 1878, which was the maintenance
and renting of fire hydrants, but they closely followed its
words. That contract was made for a definite term,
twenty-five years, and twelve of these had expired when

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 173
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the seven ordinances were adopted. In adopting and
accepting them the parties were not making a new hydrant
contract, but acting under the one already in existence.
It and the plaintiff's franchise were not co-terminous and
should not be confused. The contract covered the old
hydrants, of which there were many, as well as the new
ones, and was to expire as to all at the same time, that is,
on September 10, 1903, twenty-five years after the contract was made. That the city so understood-indeed,
that both parties so understood-is affirmatively and
clearly alleged in the city's answer, from which we excerpt
the following:
"Defendant City says that after the passage of said
[s-ven] ordinances the complainant Water Company did
lay the mains required therein and attached the fire
hydrants as provided in said ordinance and the defendant
City paid it rentals in pursuance to said contract until
September 10, 1903, at which time the complainant ceased
to collect and the City ceased to pay rentals for said
hydrants as provided in said ordinance and contracts, and
said ordinances and contracts were construed to and did
expire on September 10, 1903, and since that date the City
has not paid to the complainant any hydrant rental under
any of said rental contracts, or at all."
The plaintiff's franchise, as before shown, was granted
June 3, 1889, and, of course, did not expire September 10,
1903. What did expire on that day was the contract made
September 10, 1878, whereby the city agreed to rent and
pay for the hydrants for the term of twenty-five years
from that date. It is plain, therefore, that what was
intended by the word "franchise" in the seven ordinances
was that contract. There was nothing else to which it
reasonably could refer.
The city further contends that the plaintiff is estopped
from claiming a franchise extending beyond May 31,
1914, because in 1903 and 1904 in two suits against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE and

BRANDEIS,

JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

city it described its franchise as granted- for a term of
twenty-five years beginning June 1, 1889. But in neither
suit was it material whether the life of the franchise was
strictly limited to that period or was subject to prolongation by an extension of the plaintiff's corporate existence;
and it is not claimed that this question was adjudicated
in either suit. At that time nine or ten years of the primary period still remained and there was as yet no occasion
to elect or determine whether the privilege of effecting
an extension would be exercised. Besides, in both suits
the franchise was also described by the plaintiff as granted
for "the whole period of its corporate existence." Thus
no basis is shown for an estoppel by conduct or by judgment.
Other objections are made to the decree, but they are of
less merit and do not require special mention.
Decree atfirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE CLARKE,

dissenting.

This case presents for decision the single but very important question whether the City of Owensboro, Kentucky, by ordinance passed on June 3, 1889, granted to
the Owensboro Water Works Company a franchise renewable indefinitely and therefore in effect perpetual or
only a franchise for twenty-five years "to maintain,
complete and operate" water works in that city.
A perpetual right to the use of the streets of a city is
such a serious burden upon a community that, though very
reluctant to do so, I am impelled by an imperative sense
of duty to place on record my reasons for concluding that
the construction given by a majority of the court to the
grant involved in this case is a mistaken one which can
be reached only by violating two rules of construction.
which this court has repeatedly declared to express
"sound doctrine which should be vigilantly observed and
enforced."

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 175
243 U. S.

CLARKm and

BRANDEIS,

JJ., dissenting.

The facts essential to an understanding and to a determination of the claim made in the record are as follows:
On the ninth day of September, 1878, a corporation
named the "Owensboro Water Company" was incorporated under the laws of the State of Kentucky, and, on
the next day, the City of Owensboro granted to that
corporation the right and franchise to construct and operate in that city a water works plant, using the streets
and alleys in the customary manner.
Section 1 of this ordinance grants to the Water Company the right to construct and operate water works
within the city "for the duration of the said Company."
After many details as to construction, service and
rentals of hydrants by the city,§ 13 provides: "The rights,
privileges and franchises hereby granted to and vested
in said. company shall remain in force and effect for twentyfive years from the passage of this ordinance." Thus it
is too clear for discussion that the expression "for the
duration of the said Company" in § 1 of this ordinance of
September 10, 1878, was deemed, both by the city granting it and by the company accepting it, as meaning a
term of twenty-five years.
The Water Company constructed a water works plant
and operated it until the year 1889, when for the purpose
of making larger capital available, a new corporation,
bearing the name "Owensboro Water Works Company"
was organized, with a charter, which contained in paragraph 6 this provision: "The time of commencement of
the said corporation is the first day of June, in the year
One Thousand Eight Hu-ndred and Eighty-nine, and it
shall terminate twenty-five years thereafter, subject to such
extensions of its term of existence as by law provided."
On June 3d, 1889, the council of the City of Owensboro,
passed an ordinance, which was accepted by the new
corporation, which, after reciting that the new corporation
desired to purchase the water works of the old one, to-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE

and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

gether with its existing contracts for supplying the city
and its inhabitants with water; that the new company
desired a grant of a franchise and license "to maintain,
complete and operate ivater works in the city" and that
the city should accept the new company as the successor
of the old to the contracts for hydrant rentals, proceeds
to ordain:
Section 1. That the franchise and license to maintain,
complete and operate water works in the City of Owensboro "are hereby granted to the Owensboro Water Works
Company, . . . and to its successors and assigns, for
and during the existence of the said corporation;"
Section 2. That the new company shall be accepted
by the city "as the successor to the contract for hydrant
rental now existing between the City of Owe~nsb'oro and
the Owensboro Water Company as fully as if such existing
contracts had been originally made by the City of Owensboro with the said The Owensboro Water Works Company, . . . without the intervention of the said Owensboro Water Company."
The Kentucky General Statutes of 1883, c. 56, § 7, p.
548, under which the Water Works Company was organized in 1889, contained this provision:
"Corporations for the construction -of any work of
internal improvement may be formed to endure for fifty
years; those formed, for other purposes shall not .exceed
twenty-five years in duration; but in either case they may
be renewed from time to time for periods not greater than
was at first permissible, if three fourths of the votes cast at
any regular election held for that purpose shall be in favor
of such renewal."
While the plaintiff in error disputes it, we conclude
that it is clear that, by appropriate action taken on the
sixth of May, 1914, the Water Works Company amended
its articles of incorporation by amending article 6 thereof
(hereinbefore quoted) so that, as amended this section

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 177
243 U. S.

CLARs and

BRANDEIS,

JJ., dissenting.

became:" The time of the commencement of said corporation
is the first day of June, 1889, and it shall terminate twenty-

five years thereafter, subject to such extensions of its term
as by law provided, and same is now, by these amended
articles of incorporation, extended for the period of twentyfive yearsfrom and after the 1st day of June, 1914."

Since confessedly the Water Works Company is not a
corporation organized for the construction of "any work
of internal improvement," if we read together the charter
of the Water Company dated May 30, 1889, the ordinance
of the City of Owensboro dated June 3d, 1889, and the
statute of Kentucky, which we have quoted, limiting the
duration of corporations to twenty-five years, we see
that the question for decision is narrowed to this, viz:
Does the ,grant to the Water Works Company of the
franchise and license "to maintain, complete and operate"
water works "for and during the existence of the said cor-

poration" confer -on the company a franchise in effect
perpetual to use the streets of the city for water works
purposes, or is it limited to twenty-five years?
The limitation of the grant to the twenty-five years
"duration" of the corporation would be beyond question
were it not for the provision of the charter that the termination of the life of the company after 25 years shall be
subject to such extensions as are provided for by law and
for the provision of the statute quoted "that they [such
corporations] may be renewed from time to time for
periods not greater than was at first permissible"-in
this case for an additional twenty-five years. The conclusion of the majority of the court is that this authority
given to the stockholders to renew "the duration" of the
corporation (a discretionary power which is found in the
charter, not in the grant, and which might or might not be
exercised) expanded and extended the expression of the
grant "during the existence of the corporation" so as to
make it as if it read "during the existence of the said cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

CIAmxu and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

poration" and also for such "renewals" of such existence as
the stockholders of the company may, by-appropriate action,
favor some time in the future-thereby, making the grant
in effect a perpetual one.
The two rules for the construction of such grants, which
have been referred to, have been firmly established by
decisions of many courts, but no court has been more
definite and resolute than this court has been in the emphasis with which it has announced and applied them.
These rules are:
(1) As announced by this court most clearly, and with
full consideration of the authorities, in Blair v. Chicago,
201 U. S. 400, 463: "It is a firmly established rule
that one who asserts private rights in public property
under grants of the character of those under consideration
[city ordinances], must, if he would establish them, come
prepared to show that they have been conferred in plain
terms, for nothing passes by the grant except it be clearly
stated or necessarily implied." And the court gives as the
sound reason for this rule that: "It is matter of common
knowledge that grants of this character are usually prepared by those interested in them, and submitted to the
legislature with a view to obtain from such bodies the
most liberal grant of privileges which they are willing to
give. This is one among many reasons why they are to be
strictly construed" (p. 471). And from Cooley on Constitutional Limitations is quoted with approval this statement: "The just presumption . . . in every such case
is that the State has granted in express terms all that it
designed to grant at all. . . . This is sound doctrine,
and should be vigilantly observed and enforced." (p. 471).
'Continuing to give to the rule the emphasis which it so
richly deserves, the opinion continues and quotes from
earlier decisions of this court declaring that "any ambiguity in the terms of the grant must operate against the corporation and in favor of the public, and the corporation can

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 179
243 U. S.

CtARIx

and BRANDEIs, JJ., dissenting.

claim nothing that is not clearly given by the law.
The principle is this, that all rights which are asserted
against the State must be clearly defined, and not raised
by inference or presumption" (p. 472). The discussion
concludes with the statement, quoted from Slidell v.
Grandjean, 111 U. S. 412, that it is a wise doctrine because
"it serves to defeat any purpose concealed by the skillful
use of terms, to accomplish something not apparent on the
face of the act, and thus sanctions only open dealing with
legislative bodies" (p. 473).
(2) The second rule to .which we have referred finds clear
expression in Chicago v. Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50, 54, as follows"
"In cases where the language used by the parties to the
contract is indefinite or ambiguous, and, hence, of doubtful construction, the practical interpretation by the parties themselves is entitled to great, if not controlling,
influence. The interest of each, generally, leads him to a
construction most favorable to himself, and when the
difference has become serious, and beyond amicable adjustment, it can be settled only by the arbitrament of
the law. But; in an executory contract, and where its
execution necessarily involves a practical construction,
if the minds of both parties concur, there can be no great
danger in the adoption of it by the court as the true
one."
This rule was approved in terms in Topliff v. Topliff,
122 U. S. 121, and it has been repeatedly announced as the
settled doctrine of this court.
Applying these rules in the reverse order of their statement I shall now give my reasons for concluding that the
interpretation by the parties to it of the grant under consideration limits it to a life of twenty-five years.
The ordinance of 1878, in the part of it assumed by the
Water Works Company by its acceptance of the ordinance
of 1889, provided that "If . . . extensions of pipe shall
be made by said company during the said term of twenty-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKz

and

BRANDuEIs,

JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

five years at the instance or request of said city," the city
should be bound to rent and pay $50 a year for one hydrant
at each street intersection. Under this provision, beginning on October 6, 1890 (a little more than a year after
the grant was made), and continuing, certainly as the
record shows, until September 16, 1895, the city, by ordinance made seven distinct demands upon the Water Works
Company to lay additional pipes in the streets, and in each
ordinance provided: "The City of Owensboro hereby
rents of the said Water Company the above named hydrants for the unexpired term of the franchises of the said
Water Company," and promises to pay, etc. Here is a
plain declaration, seven times repeated, by the city, the
first made, as we have stated, very shortly after the grant
was made, that the city understood that the grant was not
an unlimited or perpetual one, for it promises to pay only
"for the unexpired term of the franchises of the said Water
Company." By the acceptance of each one of these seven
ordinances, the Water Company just as plainly assented
to this construction of the grant. This is highly persuasive
against the Water Company because such construction
was so distinctly against its interest. The record shows
that these ordinances bear dates as follows: (1) October 6,
1890; (2) February 2, 1891; (3) November 7, 1892; (4)
December 5, 1892; (5) October 1, 1894; (6) May 7, 1894,
and (7) September 16, 1895.
, The most persuasive comment I think that can be made
upon this construction of this grant by both of the parties
to it is contained in the last sentence of the quotation we
made from Chicago v. Sheldon, supra, "But, in an executory contract, and where its execution necessarily involves
a practical construction, if the minds of both parties concur, there can be no great danger in the adoption of it by
the court as the true one."
But much more is to be found in the record as
to what the parties, particularly as to what the

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 181
243 U. S.

CLARKE and

BRANDEIS, JJ.,

dissenting.

Water Works Company, thought was the term of this
grant.
On the twenty-first day of September, 1903, the Water
Works Company instituted a suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Kentucky,
in an effort to enjoin the city from issuing bonds and
spending money for the purpose of constructing a municipal water plant, and in the bill filed in the case it alleges
that it is a corporation, with power conferred upon it to
supply the defendant city and its inhabitants with water
"for the fixed period of twenty-five years from the date of its
incorporation:"it alleges that the grant to it was "extended
during the whole period of its corporate existence, a period
of twenty-five years from the 1st of June, 1889:" and that
by the contract created by the ordinance of June 3d,
1889, as well as by the contracts existing between the city
and the earlier company the Water Works Company
"acquired and now has conferred upon and vested in it
the sole and exclusive right, franchise and privilege during
the period of twenty-five years from and after June 1st, 1889,
to maintain, complete and operate water works in the
City of Owensboro," etc. Again it alleges in this bill that
the said contract conferred upon it the exclusive privilege
of furnishing water through the hydrants to the said city
for twenty-five years from the first of June, 1889; that it has
in all things complied with the requirements of the ordinance of 1889 and "that it is ready, willing and able to
continue to carry out its said contract and to continue to
perform and do all the things of it required therein until the
expiration of said contract on June 1st, 1914." Yet again
it alleges that the city did by the ordinance aforesaid. (of
1889), make and enter into a valid and binding contract
with this complainant, wherein and whereby an obligation
was created on the part of this complainant to lay pipes,
conduits and hydrants in and along the streets and to
furnish for the period of twenty-five years from the first of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

June, 1889, water for public and private purposes, etc.,
and it solemnly avers that the purpose of the city to establish a municipal water works would result in a violation
of this contract, which is within the protection of Section 1,
Article 10 of the Constitution of the United States, which
prohibits the passage of any law impairing the obligation
of contracts.
This elaborate bill filed by the Water Company concludes with the prayer for an injunction, restraining the
city "from constructing, equipping) operating or maintaining a system of water works in said city at any time, until
after the 1st day of June, 1914."
This bill is sworn to by the president of the Water
Works Company and significantly enough is signed by the
same counsel who sign the bill in the pending case.
But the Water Company, continuing of the same mind
as to the meaning of the grant under consideration, in a
petition filed in the Circuit Court of Daviess County,
Kentucky, almost a year later, on the 27th day of May,
1904, in a case in which the Company was seeking to collect rentals for hydrants, again alleged that by the grant
of 1889 the franchise of the Company was "extended during the whole period of its corporate existence, a period of
twentyfive years from and after the 1st of June, 1889," and
that this same ordinance "conferred upon and vested in
it the sole and exclusive right, franchise and privilege
during the period of twenty-five years from and after June 1,
1889, to maintain, complete and operate water works in
the city of Owensboro," etc.
In this petition plaintiff specifically sets up the ordinances to which we have referred, calling upon the Water
Company to construct eitensions, and which were accepted by the Company, and adds two others of the same
purport, one dated May 15, 1899, and one July 25, 1900;
alleges that in each of these the city requested the company to extend the lines and place hydrants "for the

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 183
243 U. S.

CraKE and

BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

unexpired term of the franchise of this plaintiff," and that
within sixty days from the passage of said ordinances it
filed its acceptance of them with the clerk of the city.
It is difficult to imagine an interpretation of a contract
by the parties to it more specific or controlling than is to
be found in the declarations in these court proceedings,
made deliberately and under the advice of counsel.
In the presence of this record I cannot doubt that it was
understood and intended in the beginning by the untechnical men of affairs who composed the city council and by
the company that this grant was a limited one, extending
for not to exceed twenty-five years from June 1st, 1889,
and that this conviction continued in the minds of all the
parties concerned in it, finding frequent expression in
the conduct of business between them for full fifteen
years, certainly until 1904, when the company is found
claiming in the courts that the grant expired on June 1,
1914, and therefore I cannot assent to the conclusion
that it is in effect a perpetual grant of the right to use
the streets of the city, convinced as I am that such result
cannot be reached without doing violence to the rule
referred to, so firmly established by this court, which has
been penetratingly condensed into the expression "Show
me what men have done under a contract and I will tell
you what it means." And, I may add, without running
also counter to the decision of this court in Tennessee v.
Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129, in which it is declared that in
construing contracts springing from statutes the words
employed are, if possible, to be given the same meaning
they had in the minds of the parties to the contract when
the statute was enacted.
But, turning now from the interpretation placed upon
this ordinance by the parties to it, and confining our
attention strictly to the language used in making the grant,
let us ask ourselves whether it can reasonably be said,
upon the facts pre~ented by this record, that a franchise

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

in effect perpetual was granted in the streets of the city
"in plain terms," "in express terms," without "ambiguity," as is required by the first of the rules for the
construction of such grants, which we have seen is so
fully approved by this court.
If the pertinent parts of the grant, of the charter of the
company and of the Kentucky statute be written together,
we shall have this paragraph:
The City of Owensboro grants to the company the right
to maintain and operate a water works plant during the
existence of that corporation, which existeDce is declared
in its charter to commence on June 1st, 1889, and to terminate twenty-five years thereafter, subject to such extensions as the law provides, and is also limited by the state
statute, under which it was created, to a duration of
twenty-five years, with the privilege of renewal for a like
period if a three-quarters vote of its stockholders "shall
be in favor of such renewal."
I cannot doubt that others than skilled lawyers (and we
cannot assume that all of the members of the city council
were skilled lawyers) reading such a paragraph as this
would understand that the existence of the life of the
Water Works Company, and so of the grant, was for the
declared twenty-five year period between the "commencement of the life" of the corporation and the time when it
must "terminate." To give it any other meaning is to
magnify the subordinate provision for a possible extension
of the life of the corporation so as to make that control
the definite, specific, clearly expressed limitation of the
Charter. But specific should always control general provisions in a contract where they conflict-definite and
clearly expressed limitations should dominate indefinite
and discretionary privileges. To declare this grant
perpetually renewable is to make its duration dependent
upon the discretion of the grantee corporation, to be
exercised twenty-five years after the grant was made, and

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 185
243 U. S.

CLARKE and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

it is not difficult to conceive of circumstances under Which
the required three-fourths of the stockholders of the company would not favor an extension of its corporate life,if, for instance, its business were a failing one because of
competition with a city owned plant, or if the stockholders
differed in opinion as to the wisdom of making a possible
sale of its property. This is a result which the court
should accept only under sheer coercion-I can designate
it by no milder term-of the "plain" "express" and "unambiguous" provision in the grant, and very certainly it
is a result which should not be derived from ingenious
construction of a narrow and optional clause in the charter
of the grantee (not in the grant) which was probably
inserted for the purpose of providing for the contingency
of a new grant to the company, to be made at the expiration of the one for twenty-five years, rather than in an
attempt to automatically make an extension of that grant.
When to this it is added that the provision for extending the
life of the corporationis not to be found anywhere in the ordinance making the grant, which the councilmen had before
them, but only in the charter of the corporation and in the
statute of the State, which they probably never saw, I not
only cannot bring myself to.assent to the conclusion that,
resolving, as we must, every doubt in favor of the public,
a franchise in effect perpetual in the streets of the city
was given to the Water Works Company "in plain,"
"in express" and in "unambiguous" terms, but, on the
contrary, I am very clear that the language used in making this grant limits it, as we have seen that all of the
parties thought that it limited it, to the term of twentyfive years.
This conclusion has been arrived at without the application of narrow distinctions to the words used in the charter
of the Water Company and in the statute of Kentucky.
But sufficient to turn the case, if it be thought a close one,
might very well be found in significant distinctions with

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

respect to the words used in the provision of the charter
of the company, on which the opinion of the majority of
the court turns, viz: That the twenty-five year limitation
so clearly expressed is "subject to such extensions of its
term of existence as by law provided."
These distinctions are, first, that the state law did
not
provide for "extensions" of the corporate existence. The
most that can be said of the law is that it provided a
method by which the stockholders of the company-not
the law-might, in their discretion "renew" the charter
for an additional term after the expiration of the twentyfive year period which the law provided for. The second distinction is that the authority to "renew" the
corporate existence of the company, given by the statute,
becomes in the charter, as written by the company,
"extensions . . . by law provided," which gives to
the corporation the advantage which many courts and
writers, have found in the distinction between the right of
"extension" and the right of "renewal" of a contract,
the latter indicating an intention to resort to a new grant
for the future, while the former contemplates "a prolongation, a lengthening out" of a grant previously made.
This distinction is perhaps too subtle to serve the ends of
substantial justice in practical affairs, but apparently the
authors of the charter which we are considering thought it
a refinement which it was worth their while to lay hold
upon. Whalen v. Manley, 68 W. Va. 328; Leavitt v. Maykel, 203 Mass. 506, and authorities cited.
The District Court finds its conclusive authority for
holding the grant to be in effect a perpetual one in City of
Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co., 230
U. S. 58. An inspection of the ordinance there considered
shows that there was no attempt whatever in terms to
limit the duration of the grant; that no reference was made
in the ordinance to the life of the corporation to which
the grant was made, and that by express terms the grant

OWENSBORO v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS CO. 187
243

U. S.

DA.Y, J., dissenting.

is declared not to be exclusive and to be subject to alteration and amendment. While it is true that the members
of this court differed as to the effect of the provision for
alteration and amendment of the ordinance, yet the effect
of these distinctions when grouped together is s~ich, it
seems to me, as to render the decision in that case wholly
inapplicable to an ordinance such as we are considering
here.
It may be that the settled conviction which I have that
no legislator, congressman, or c9uncilman would knowingly consent to grant perpetual rights in public streets to
a private corporation has so darkened my understanding
that I cannot properly appreciate the point of view of my
associates and the reasons advanced in support of it, but,
however this may be, the reasons stated in this opinion
convince me that the grant under discussion was not
in effect a perpetual grant, but was for the period of
twenty-five years, which expired on the first day of June,
1914.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs concurs in this opinion.

MR. JusTIcE DAY concurs in this dissent, upon the
ground that, applying the well settled rule that grants
of the character here in question are to be given strict
construction, and doubts as to their meaning resolved in
favor of the public, and ambiguities are to be resolved in
like manner, it is by no means clear that the City intended
to grant to the Water Company a franchise for its then
corporate life of twenty-five years and for subsequent
renewals thereof as the stockholders might determine;
and he is of the opinion that the franchise expired at the
end of the twenty-five year period for which its charter
provided when the grant was made.

