MEMPHIS STREET RY. CO. v. MOORE.
243 U. S.

299

Syllabus.

The record before us not only fails to show that the fault
of the "Selj a" might not have been one of the causes of
the accident, or that it probably was not, or that it could
not have been one of the causes of it, but, on the contrary,
it clearly shows, as we have seen, that the negligent failure
to observe the statutory rule contributed directly to cause
the collision.
The case is not one for the application of refinements as
to what would have been good seamanship without the,
rule, such as we are invited in argument to consider, nor
is it a case for consideration of the doctrine of major and
minor fault. Both of the masters were palpably negligent in respects which contributed directly to cause the
collision; the negligence of each continued to operate as an
efficient cause until the moment when the accident occurred, and we agree with the lower courts that the case
is one in which the master and owner of the "Selj a" must
be left to suffer their self-inflicted loss.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

MEMPHIS STREET RAILWAY COMPANY
MOORE, ADMINISTRATOR OF DOUGLAS.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 623.

Argued January 29, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

Where no conflict with the Federal Constitution or laws is involved,
a construction of a state statute'by the highest court of the State
is accepted by this court as conclusive.
The act of Tennessee providing that when nonresidents qualify in the
State as the personal representatives of decedents dying and leaving
assets therein such nonresidents. shall be treated as citizens of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

State for the purpose of suing and being sued, was not intended to
exclude them from resort to the federal courts.
The purpose of the act as construed by the State Supreme Court was
to permit them to sue in forma pauperis.
232 Fed. Rep. 708, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Roane Waring, with whom Mr. Luke E. Wright was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Ike W. Crabtree, with whom Mr. Milton J. Anderson
was on the briefs, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

The respondent, S. C. Moore, a citizen of Arkansas, in
his representative capacity as administrator of the estate
of Ivy B. Douglas,. deceased, under appointment by the
Probate Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, sued the
petitioner, the Memphis Street Railway Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of Tennessee, in the
United States District Court for the Western District of
Tennessee, for wrongfully causing the death of his decedent. He recovered judgment, which was affirmed by the
Circuit 'Court of Appeals and the case is here on certiorari
for review of the holding of that court that the plaintiff
had legal capacity to maintain the suit in a federal court.
On the fabe of the declaration there was the requisite
diversity of citizenship to give the federal court jurisdiction, but the petitioner claims that the respondent, Moore,
although a citizen of Arkansas, must be treated as a citizen of Tennessee under the statute of that State, entitled
"An Act to declare that for the purpose of suing and being
sued, a nonresident of Tennessee, who qualifies as executor or administrator in Tennessee shall be considered a
citizen of Tennessee, and to provide for the service of

MEMPHIS STREET RY. CO. v. MOORE.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

process upon him" (c. 501, p. 1344, Acts of 1903), which
provides:
"That whenever a nonresident of the State-of Tennessee
qualifies in this State as the executor or administrator of a
person dying in or leaving assets or property in this State,
for the purpose of suing and being sued, he shall be treated
as a citizen of this State."
The remainder of the act prescribes the method of
service of summons upon such a nonresident executor
or administrator.
.
Upon a full review of the legislation of the State in
Southern,Railway Co. v. Maxwell, 113 Tennessee, 464, the
Supreme Court of Tennessee decided that the sole purpose of this act is to extend to such nonresident executors
and administrators as are described in it the privilege of
suing in the state courts in forma pauperis,and that the
effect of it, when read with the other statutes of the State
on the subject; is to confine this privilege to the people of
the State or to suits devoted to their interest, "since the
right is not extended to non-resident administrators
generally, but only to those who have qualified in this
State as the personal representative of persons dying or
leaving assets or property in this State." No conflict
with the Federal Constitution or laws being involved, this
construction of the state statute will be accepted by this
court as conclusive. Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat.
152, 159; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S.100,
116.
But irrespective of this rule we quite agree with this
authoritative declaration that the only purpose of the act
is to determine privileges in the state courts of nonresidents who may be appointed administrators or executors
of the estates of persons such as are described in the act.
There is nothing whatever in the statute which indicates
any intention on the part of the legislature to exclude nonresident executors or administrators from resort to fed-

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Syllabus.

243 U. S.

eral courts under appropriate conditions and the construction which is urged upon us to give to it such an
effect is too strained and artificial to be allowed. The
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

McALLISTER, ADMINISTRATRIX OF McALLISTER, v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 748.

Submitted January. 30, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

An order of a District Judge allowing a writ of error from this court
and containing a recital that the judgment was based solely upon
lack of jurisdiction supplies the place of the certificate required by
ยง 238, Judicial Code.
An allegation in a petition for removal that the plaintiff's motive in
joining resident and nonresident defendants is to prevent removal
to the federal court is not in itself sufficient ground for removal, but
specific facts supporting the charge of fraud must be alleged.
When the plaintiff's petition states a case of joint liability in tort under
the state law against a resident and a nonresident defendant and the
petition to remove the case on the ground that it contains a separable
controversy fails to aver facts showing that the joinder is fraudulent,
the' District Court must remand.
Under the law of Kentucky a railroad company, though not required
by speed laws, must nevertheless take notice of the places where
numerous people are accustomed to cross or otherwise to be upon its
tracks, and, by moderating speed, maintaining proper look-out,
and giving proper signals, must exercise due care to save them from
injury by trains. Failure to observe this duty resulting in injury
or death is actionable negligence.
Under the law of Kentucky lessor and lessee railroad companies are
jointly liable for injury or death inflicted on persons on the

