BOND v. HUME.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

BOND ET AL., PARTNERS AS BOND &
BUTTFIELD, v. HUME.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTIH CIRCUIT.
No. 119.

Argued February 2, 1917.-Decided March 6,1917.

An independent sovereignty will not lend the aid of its courts to enforce a foreign contract where such action would be repugnant to
good morals, lead to disturbance or disorganization of its municipal
laws, or otherwise violate its public policy.
The courts of one sovereignty, .however, will not refuse effect to the
principle of comity by declining to enforce contracts which are valid
under the laws of another sovereignty unless constrained thereto
by clear conviction of the existence of the conditions justifying that
course.

Since the definition of public policy lies peculiarly with the law-making
power, the policy indicated by its enactments must control comity
in the enforcement of foreign contracts.
The foregoing principles apply to the several States, under the common
obligations of the Constitution, more strongly.than to sovereignties
which are independent of one another.
Contracts between citizens of New York and a citizen of Texas, executed in New York, for the purchase and sale of cotton for future
delivery upon the New York Cotton Exchange, pursuant to its
rules, etc., Held valid under the New York law and under the common law.
Contracts with brokers for the purchase and sale of cotton for future
delivery, under and subject to the rules of a cotton exchange, which
rules permit the substitution in delivery of grades other than that
upon which the contract price is based and provide that in such case
the price shall be readjusted according to the rates of the exchange
"existing on the day previous to the date of the transferable notice
of delivery," are not necessarily to be regarded as violating the policy
evinced by the Texas "Bucket Shop'Law," Rev. Crim. Stats. 1911,
c. 3, Arts. 538, 539, when it is alleged and admitted that actual
delivery of the goods was bona fide intended by the parties;
Nor are they repugnant to the public policy of Texas as manifested
by other statutes of the State or by decisions of its courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

243 U. S.

The general provisions contained in Arts. 545 and 546 of the Texas
statute, supra, and which shift the burden of proof in particular
criminal prosecutions under it, afford no ground, in a civil case
brought to enforce a contract, for holding that the averments of the
petition must be taken to be untrue.
Whether the mere existence of a state statute punishing those who
contract for the sale or purchase of goods or securities to be delivered in the future, not intending in good faith that delivery shall
be made, could constitutionally justify the courts of that State, or
in any event the courts of the United States exercising jurisdiction
therein, in declining to enforce like contracts when made under like
circumstances in another State and valid where made,--are questions upon which the court expresses no opinion.

"THis action was instituted in the United States Circuit
Court for the Western District of Texas, at Austin, on the
23rd day of February, 1910, by Allen Bond and William
J. Buttfield, plaintiffs, against J. L. Hume, defendant, to
recover the balance due upon an open account for money
advanced to defendant, and paid, laid out and expended
for his account, and for services rendered and performed
for defendant at his special instance and request at divers
times between the first day of July, 1907, and the first
day of June, 1908, at the City, County and State of New
York, in connection with the purchase and sale for defendant's account of cotton for future delivery upon the
New York Cotton Exchange, pursuant to the rules, regulations, customs and usages of said Exchange, and for the
amount due upon a certain promissory note executed by
defendant payable to the order of J. W. Buttfield, and by
the latter assigned to the firm of Bond and Buttfield.
"The plaintiff's first amended original petition contains
the following allegations:
'The plaintiffs at the special instance and request of the
defendant at the City, County, and State of New York,
advanced to the defendant and paid, laid out and expended for his account divers sums of money, and did and
performed for said defendant at the City, County and

BOND v. HUME.
243 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

State of New York, divers services in and about the purchase and sale of (sic) the defendant (sic) account cotton
upon the New York Cotton Exchange, and in pursuance of
the rules, regulations, customs and usage of the said New
York Cotton Exchange, a copy of the rules and by laws and
regulations being hereto attached and marked Exhibit A,
and asked to be made, etc.
'That the said services were rendered and said money
paid out by them to said defendant for and at his request
in buying and selling for his said account as his agent
cotton for future delivery according to the rules and regulations of the New York Cotton Exchange in the City of
New York, a copy of said rules and regulations being
hereto attached and marked Exhibit, etc.
'Said orders for the purchase and sale of cotton for
future delivery were received by plaintiffs and executed
with the understanding and agreement between the parties
that actual delivery for this account was contemplated,
subject to the rules and by laws of the said New York
Cotton Exchange, as hereto attached and marked said
Exhibit A.
'Plaintiffs allege further that they made said purchase
and sales of the cotton for and at the request of the said
defendant at the prices respectively authorized by him,
and at his instance and request entered into binding contracts of purchase and sale for future delivery in accordance with the said rules and by laws of the said New York
Cotton Exchange, a copy of said rules and by laws being
hereto attached and marked Exhibit A, and made a part
of this petition.
'Plaintiffs further allege that at the several times they
made said purchases and sales for the defendant he well
knew that actual delivery was contemplated, and well
knew. that plaintiffs were to make and did make said purchases and sales under and subject to the rules and by
laws of the New York Cotton Exchange, and were held

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

243 U. S.

personally bound for carrying out said contract, as will
more fully appear by reference to said rules and by laws
hereto attached and marked Exhibit A, and plaintiffs
allege that they promptly advised the defendant of the
said several purchases and sales and that said purchases
and sales were made in accordance and with his instruction, subject to the rules and by laws of the New York
Cotton Exchange and that said orders for the purchase
and sale of cotton for future delivery were received and
executed with the distinct understanding that actual delivery was contemplated as provided by the by laws and
rules of said Exchange, as will more fully appear by reference to said exhibit A.'
"The by laws of the New York Cotton Exchange
pleaded by the plaintiffs contain the following provision:
'The cotton to be of any grade from Good Ordinary to
Fair inclusive, and if tinged or stained not below Low
Middling Stained (New York Cotton Exchange Inspection
and Classification) at the price of cents per pound
for middling, with additions or deductions for other
grades according to the rates of the New York Cotton
Exchange edisting on the day previous to the date of the
transferable notice of delivery.'
"To this pleading the defendant, in the lower court, interposed the following exceptions:
'I. Now comes the defendant in the above entitled
cause by his attorney, and excepts to plaintiffs' petition
herein and says that the same is not sufficient in law to
require him to answer and should be dismissed.
'II. And for special cause of exception defendant shows
the following:
'1. It is apparent from the face of ,plaintiffs' petition
that the balance due upon the alleged account sued on,
arose out of a gaming transaction in cotton futures on the
New York Cotton Exchange, that none of the cotton

BOND v. HUME.
243 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

alleged to have been bought and sold was delivered, but
the account sued on simply represents the difference in
the rise and fall of the market on said Cotton Exchange,
and were alleged to have been settled by plaintiffs by paying or receiving a margin or profit on each contract, as
shown in said account, and that the alleged balance
claimed by plaintiff (sic) to be due from defendant consists of said alleged margin or profit.
'2. It appears from plaintiffs' petition that said alleged
account sued on arose out of transactions on the New York
Cotton Exchange, and pursuant to the rules, regulations,
customs and usages of said Exchange, and does not show
or set forth that in the settlement or closing out of said
transaction sued on by delivery or tender of any grade
or grades of cotton other than the grade upon which the
prices were based in the transaction sued on, that the
same were settled or closed out at the actual price for spot
delivery of such other grade or grades at the time and
place of delivery or tender.'
"Upon this record the Court below entered the following order:
'Thereupon came on to be heard the demurrers and
exceptions of defendant to plaintiffs' amended petition
and the same having been heard and duly considered, it
is the opinion of the Court that said demurrers and exceptions should be sustained, and it is accordingly so ordered,
and the plaintiffs declining to amend, it is further ordered
that said cause be and the same is hereby dismissed at the
cost of plaintiffs, to which order of the court sustaining
said demurrers and exceptions, and dismissing said cause,
the plaintiffs in open court excepted."'
Mr. Charles Pope Caldwell, with whom Mr. W. D.
Caldwell was on the brief, for Bond et al.
. No appearance for Hume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

after stating the contents
of the certificate of the court below as above reproduced,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

The question as to which the court below desires to be
instructed upon the case as stated in the foregoing certificate is this:
"Where a contract between a citizen of the State of
New York and a citizen of the State of Texas is entered
into, made and executed in the State of New York, for
the sale of cotton for future delivery upon the New York
Cotton Exchange, pursuant to the rules, regulations,
customs and usages of said Exchange, and the same is a
valid exigible contract in the State of New York, does the
statute of 'the State of Texas (known as the 'Bucket Shop
Law') passed by the 30th Legislature of the State of
Texas, in 1907, the same being incorporated in the Revised Criminal Statutes of Texas (1911) as Chapter 3,
pages 141, 142, or any public policy therein declared,
prevent a district court of the United States, sitting in
Texas, wherein a suit is brought to recover for breach of
said contract from granting such relief as otherwise but
for such statute the parties would be entitled to have and
receive?"
We construe the question as simplly asking whether
under the pleadings as stated in the certificate a cause of
action was disclosed which there was jurisdiction to hear,
taking into consideration the local law including the provisions of the Texas statute referred to in the question.
It is obvious on the face of the pleadings as stated in the
certificate that the contract the enforcement of which was
sought was valid under the laws of the State of New York,
the place where it was entered into and where it was
executed, and this validity was not and could not be
affected by the laws of the State of Texas, as in the nature
of things such laws could have no extraterritorial opera-

BOND v. HUME.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion. This conclusion is, however, negligible, as the question is not whether the contract was valid, but whether
being valid'under the law of New York, it was susceptible,
consistently with the laws of Texas, of enforcement in
the courts of the United States sitting in that State. And
this question involves the inquiry: Was there any local
public policy in the State of Texas which, consistently
with the duty of the courts of that State under the Constitution to give effect to a contract validly made in another State, was sufficient to warrant a refusal by the
courts of that State to discharge such duty?
A statement of a few elementary doctrines is essential
to a consideration of this issue. Treating the two States
as sovereign and foreign to each other-New York, under
whose laws the contract was made and where it was valid,
and Texas, in whose courts we are assuming it was sought
to be enforced-it is elementary that the right to enforce
a foreign contract in another foreign country could alone
rest upon the general principles of comity. But elementary as is the rule of comity, it is equally rudimentary
that an independent State under that principle will not
lend the aid of its courts to enforce a contract founded
upon a foreign law where to do so would be repugnant to
good morals, would lead to disturbance and disorganization of the local municipal law, or in other words, violate
the public policy of the State where the enforcement of
the foreign contract is sought. It is moreover axiomatic
that the existence of the described conditions preventing
the enforcement in a given case does not exclusively depend upon legislation but may result from a judicial consideration of the subject, although it is also true that
courts of one sovereignty will not refuse to give effect to
the principle of comity by declining to enforce contracts
which are valid'under the laws of another soverelgnty
unless constrained to do so by clear convictions of the
existence of the conditions justifying that course. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

finally it is certain that as it is peculiarly within the province of the law-making power to define the public policy
of the State, where that power has been exerted in such a
way as to manifest that a violation of public policy would
result from the enforcement of a foreign contract validly
entered into under a foreign law, comity will yield to the
manifestation of the legislative will and enforcement will
not be permitted. It is certain that these principles which
govern as between countries foreign to each other apply
with greater force to the relation of the several States to
each other, since the obligations of the Constitution which
bind them all in a common orbit of national unity impose
of necessity restrictions which otherwise would not obtain
and exact a greater degree of respect for each other than
otherwise by the principles of comity would be expected.
It is unnecessary to cite authority for these several doctrines since, as we have said, they are indisputable, but
they nowhere find a more lucid exposition than that long
ago made by Mr. Chief Justice Taney in Bank of Augusta
v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 589, 590.
Coming to apply these principles from general considerations, as it is undoubted that the New York contract as declared on was not only valid under the law of
New York, but was not repugnant to the common or
general law, as long since settled by this court (Irwin v.
Williar, 110 U. S. 499; Bibb v. Allen, 149 U. S. 481; Clews
v. Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461), and as we have been referred
to and have been able to discover no decision of the courts
of Texas or statute of that State causing its enforcement
to be repugnant to the public policy of Texas, it must result that the question would have to be answered in the
negative unless a different conclusion is required by the
provisions of the particular state statute referred to in the
question.
The statute is criminal and provides a punishment for
the offences which it defines and the argument is that,

BOND v. HUME,
243 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this being true, it necessarily forbids as a matter of public
policy the enforcement in Texas of contracts, although
lawful by the laws of another State, which, if entered into
in Texas, would be criminal, since it must be that the
public policy of Texas exacts that the results of a contract
which if made in Texas would be punished as a crime shall
not be susceptible of enforcement in its civil courts because
made in another State. But without stopping to analyze
the authorities relied upon to sustain the proposition in
order to determine whether they support the doctrine
as broadly stated, we observe that although the proposition were to be conceded for the sake of the argument
only, that concession is immaterial for this reason: The
statute relied upon (the pertinent sections are in the margin 1)does not make criminal all sales for future delivery
1 Texas

Revised Criminal Statutes; 1911, Title 11, c. 3, p. 141.
Art. 538. A bucket shop defined.-A bucket shop, within the meaning of this law, is any place wherein dealing in futures is carried on
contrary to any of the provisions hereof.
Art. 539. Futures or dealing in futures defined.-By each of the expressions, "futures," "dealing in futures," and "future contracts," as
these terms are used in this law is meant: 1. A sale or purchase, or contract to sell, or any offer to sell or purchase, any cotton, grain, meat,
lard, or any stocks or bonds of any corporation, to Ge delivered in the
future, when it was not the bona fide intention of the party being prosecuted under this chapter, at the time that such sale, contract, purchase,
or offer to sell or purchase, was made, that the thing mentioned in such
transaction should be delivered and paid for as-specifid 'in such transaction. 2. Any such sale, purchase, offer or contract, where it was the
intention of the party being prosecuted hereunder at the time of making
such contract or offer, that the same should, or, at the option of either
party, might be settled by paying or receiving a margin or profit on
such contract. 3. Any purchase, sale or offer of sale or purchase, or
contract for future delivery of any of the things mentioned in this article on, by or through any exchange or board of trade, the rules, bylaws, customs or regulations of which permit such contract or transaction to be settled or closed by delivery or tender of any grade or
grades of the thing mentioned in such contract or transaction, other

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
. Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

of the property described, but only forbids and punishes
the making of contracts of that nature where certain
prescribed conditions are not exacted or do not exist.
It looks, therefore, not to prohibit all such contracts but
to secure in all when made in Texas the presence of conditions deemed to be essential. Indeed, it goes further,
since even although the contract on the subject may have
been made with the express stipulation as to delivery
exacted by the statute, nevertheless crime and punishment may result as against a particular party to the contract who in bad faith has assented to the express stipulation, which otherwise would be valid. These conclusions
we think plainly result from the definitions which the
statute makes in the first class as to delivery, in the second
class as to option, and in the third as to ultimate performance, none of which conditions we think can be said
to necessarily embrace the contract sued upon taking
the facts alleged in the petition to be established. It is
true the statute contains general provisions in articles
545 and 546 (which we do not reproduce) that wherever
a criminal prosecution is commenced against a person
who may have made a particular future contract containing provisions in violation of the statute, the presumption shall be prima facie that the illegal conditions existed
and therefore that there was guilt until the contrary was
shown. But we are of opinion that this affords no ground
in a civil case brought to enforce a contract, for holding
that the averments of the petition must be taken to be
untrue in order to defeat a right to be heard simply beCause under a criminal statute as to particular offences
the burden of proof is shifted.
Concluding as we do that, accepting te averments of
the petition as true, the cause of action was susceptible
than the grade upon which the price is based in said transaction, at
any price other than the actual price for spot delivery of such other
grade or grades, at the time and place of delivery or tender.

BOND v. HUME.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of being heard in the courts of Texas and therefore was also
susceptible of being brought in the courts of the United
States in that State, we are of opinion that the question
asked should be replied to in the negative. And of course
we must not be understood as deciding whether the mere
existence of a state statute punishing one who in bad faith,
and because of such bad faith, had made an agreement to
deliver in a contract of sale which would be otherwise
valid, could become.the basis of'a public policy preventing
the enforcement in Texas of contracts for sale and delivery
made in another State which were there valid although one
of the parties might have made the agreement to deliver
in bad faith. In other words, we must not be understood
as expressing any opinion on the subject of whether, consistently with the very nature of the relations between the
several States resulting from the constitutional obligations
resting upon them, the courts of Texas under the guise of
a public policy resting merely on the conditions stated
could rightfully refuse to enforce a contract validly made
in another State, or at all events whether under such circumstances such a contract would not in the nature of
-things be enforceable in the appropriate courts of the
United States.
A negative answer is therefore made to the question asked
and it is ordered that it be so certified.

