MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

Machine Co., ante, 490, that a conditional sale retaining the
title until a future event after delivery, has been decided to
be lawful again and again by this court. Bailey v. Baker
Ice Machine Co., 239 U. S. 268, 272. I confine myself to expressing my views upon the general and important questions upon which I have the misfortune to differ from
the majority of the court. I leave on one side the question
of the effect of the Clayton Act, as the court has done,
and also what I might think if the Paper Bag Case were
not upheld, or if the question were upon the effect of a
combination of patents such as to be contrary to the
policy that I am bound to accept from the Congress of the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA
VANTER

and MR. JUSTICE VAN DE-

concur in this dissent.

MARSHALL v. GORDON, SERGEANT-AT-ARMS OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 606.

Argued December 11, 12, 1916.-Decided April 23, 1917.

Appellant, while United States Attorney for the Southern District of
New York, conducted a grand jury investigation which led to the
indictment of a member of the House of Representatives. Acting
on charges of misfeasance and nonfeasance made by the member
against appellant in part before the indictment and renewed with
additions afterward, the House by resolution directed its Judiciary
Committee to make inquiry and report concerning appellant's
liability to impeachment. Such inquiry being in progress through
a sub-committee, appellant addressed to the sub-committee's chairman and gave to the press a letter, charging the sub-committee with

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

an' endeavor to prdpe into and frustrate the action of the gran-d jury,
and couched in terms calculated to arouse the indignation of the
members of that committee and those of the House generally. Thereafter, appellant was arrested in New York by the sergeant-at-arms
pursuant to a resolution of the House whereby the letter was characterized as defamatory and insulting and as tending to bring that
body into public contempt and ridicule, and whereby appellant in
writing and publishing such letter was adjudged to be in contempt
of the House in violating its privileges, honor and dignity. He applied for habeas corpus.
Held: (1) That the proceedings concerning which the alleged contempt
was committed were not impeachment proceedings.
(2) That, whether they were impeachment proceedings or not, the
House was without power by its own action, as distinct from such
action as might be taken under criminal laws, to arrest or punish for
such acts as were committed by appellant.
No express power to punish for contempt was granted to the House
of Representatives save the power to deal with contempts committed
by its own members. Constitution, Art. I, § 5.
The possession by Congress of the commingled legislative and judicial
authority to punish for contempts which was exerted by the House
of Commons is at variance with the view and tendency existing in
this country when the Constitution was adopted, as evidenced by
the manner in which the subject was treated in many state constitutions, beginning at or about that time and continuing thereafter.
Such commingling of powers would be destructive of the basic constitutional distinction between legislative, executive and judicial
power, and repugnant to' limitations which the Constitution fixes
expressly; hence there is no warrant whatever for implying such a
dual power in aid of other powers expressly granted to Congress.
The House has implied power to deal directly with contempt so far as
is necessary to preserve and exercise the legislative authority expressly granted.
Being, however, a power of self-preservation, a means and not an end,
the power does not extend to infliction of punishment, as such; it is
a power to prevent acts which in -and of themselves, inherently,
prevent or obstruct the discharge of legislative duty and to compel
the doing of those things which are essential to the performance of
the legislative functions.
As pointed out in Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, this implied power,
in its exercise, is limited to imprisonment during the session of the
body affected by the contempt.

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The authority does not cease when the act complained of has-been committed, but includes the right to determine in the use of legitimate
and fair discretion how far from the nature and character of the act
there is necessity for repression to prevent immediate recurrence,
i. e., the continued existence of the interference or obstruction to
the exercise of legislative power.
In such case, unless there be manifest an absolute disregard of discretion, and a mere exertion of arbitrary power coming' within the
reach of constitutional limitations, the exercise of the authority
is not subject to judicial interference.
The power is the same in quantity and quality whether exerted on
behalf of the impeachment powers or of the others to.which it is
ancillary.
The legislative power to provide by criminal laws for the prosecution

and punishment of wrongful acts-not here involved.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles P. Spooner and Mr. Jesse C. Adkins, with
whom Mr. John C. Spooner was on the brief, for appellant:
No express power is given by the Constitution to the
House of Representatives to punish for contempt; the
Ifouse has no general power to punish any act as a crime.
Constitution, Art. I, § 5; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S.
168, 182.
A contempt proceeding is either civil or criminal.
Gompers v. Buck Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 441;
Gompers v. United States, 233 U. S. 604, 610. A civil proceeding is merely process and may be enforced by the
House of Representatives when necessary to the performance of its functions. A criminal contempt proceeding
is punishment for crime and may be, exercised only by the
judiciary. Constitution, Art. III, §§ 1, 2; Amendments V,
VI. The Continental Congress suffered many indignities,
5 Elliott's Debates, 2d ed., pp. 92-94; 1 'Curtis Const.
Hist., p. 149; 1 McMaster's History of U. S., pp. 133, 183;
but the States were jealous of the powers of the Federal
Government, 1 Curtis Const. Hist., pp. 153, 154, 159. Congress was given ample power of self-protection by exclu-

OCTO3ER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellant.

243 U. S.

sive jurisdiction over the District of Columbia, and power
to pass all necessary laws to carry into execution express
powers. Constitution, Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, 18; Federalist,
No. 42; 2 Story Const., § 1218; 1 Curtis Const. Hist.,
p. 487; 1 Tucker Const., § 205.
The power to punish for contempt is not impliedly
conferred on Congress, either by analogy to the House of
Commons or by necessity. While the House of Commons
has such a power, it was derived from the fact that Parliament was originally a court. The House of Representatives was never a court, and does not derive this power
by analogy. Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 183,
184, 188, 189; Kielley v. Carson, 4 Moore P. C. 63. Such a
power is not necessary to enable it to perform its duties
or to exercise the powers expressly conferred by the Constitution.
The power claimed is exceedingly broad. It might
result in conflict between the judiciary and Congress, as
actually happened in England. Stockdale v. Hansard,
9 Ad. & El. 1; Sheriff of Middlesex, 11 Ad. & El. 273.
Such a power would practically destroy the freedom of
the press and of public discussion, for every critic of either
body of Congress or any member thereof might be imprisoned at the whim of Congress, and without trial by
the courts. If Congress exercises such power, it will
have little time left in which to legislate. On the other
hand, Congress must have some power of self-help; the
line of demarcation is logical and plain. The principle
is that applicable to all grants of powers, McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S.
651, 658; and is embodied in the maxim Quando lex aliquid alicui concedit, concedere videtur et id sine quo res
ipsa esse non potest, 5 Coke, 47. Congress may preserve
decorum in its deliberations, compel attendance of its
members, admit and expel them, and punish them for
disorder. Possibly it may imprison its own members

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

in the execution .of these duties, but compulsory attendance or expulsion would be sufficient punishment. Congress has all power, by removal from its halls and by
coercive imprisonment, necessary to self-preservation, but
no power to punish for crime. That is for the judiciary.
Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204 held that the House
had implied power to punish for contempt. The Privy
Council declined to follow it in Kielley v. Carson, supra.
It was overruled in Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168,
where it was held that the Constitution conferred no
express power on either House to punish for contempts,
and no such right was derived by analogy to Parliament.
The court declined to decide whether any such power was
implied from necessity, but said that little aid for that
proposition was found in the late English cases, which are
quoted. from approvingly. The trend of the opinion is
against the existence of such power. The power sustained
in In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661, was that of coercion to
compel testimony and was merely process. Ib.8 App.
Cas. D. C. 315. See also Interstate Commerce Commis.
sion v. Brimson, 154 U. S.447.
The English cases support the proposition. Kielley v.
Carson, 4 Moore P. C. 63; Fenton v. Hampton, 11 Moore
P. C. 347; Doyle v. Falconer, L. R., 1 P. C. 328; Hill v.
Weldon, 5 New Brunswick, 1.
Administrative tribunals perform functions closely
akin to the judicial, without this power; e. g., The Interstate Commerce Commission, The Patent Office, The
I
General Land Office.
Not all courts have the power to punish for contempt.
Rinehart v. Lance, 43 N. J. L. 311; In re Mason, 43 Fed.
Rep. 510, 515; Queen v. Lefroy, L. R., 8 Q. B. 134.
The fact that the House was investigating a charge of
impeachment does not alter the case. The legislative
power is of greater importance; such a distinction would'
be difficult of application. The House,. when sitting in an

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellant.

243 U. S.

impeachment inquiry is not a court, nor has it power to
punish criminal contempts by analogy to courts. Impeachment in the United States is a political and not a
judicial act; its object is to remove from office, not to
punish for crime; that is left to the courts. See 26 Harv.
Law Rev., p. 684.
A court renders judgment, usually reviewable, and the
judges may be impeached. The House charges that a
man is unfit to hold office, and there is no review of its
action. Judges are appointed as experts in law, and are
sworn to do impartial justice; a court proceeds according
to settled rules of law and upon adequate evidence; the
House proceeds in its ordinary legislative capacity, and
need not take evidence; its members are not selected as
lawyers and take no judicial oath.
The House is not to be likened to a grand jury. The
true analogy is to the prosecuting attorney; his functions
are identical with those. of the House; but neither is
judicial.
Not every court has power to punish for contempt committed out of its presence. The King originally was personally present with the curia regis, and any insult to the
court was an offense against the sovereign. 1 Hawk. P. C.
c. 6, § 3; 4 Black. Com., pp. 121-126. It was prosecuted
only by ordinary criminal procedure. Gompers v. United
States, 233 U. S. 604; 3 Trans. Royal Hist. Soc., N. S., p. 147.
The first summary prosecution for a contempt-for libelling
a court occurred in 1720, 24 L. Q. R., pp. 184, 266, article
by John Charles Fox. In Pennsylvania the state courts
as early-as 1809 were forbidden to prosecute libel as contempt. Thomas, Constructive Contempt, p. 26.
The Act of 1831, which became § 725, Rev. Stats., and
is now § 268, Judicial Code, forbids the federal courts to
punish indirect contempts in a summary way. Ex parte
Poulston, 19 Fed. Cas. 1205; In re Daniels, 131 Fed. Rep.
95. Contra: United States v. Toledo Newspaper Co., 220

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Fed. Rep. 458; United States v. Hug, 206 Fed. Rep. 715;
In re Independent Pub. Co., 228 Fed. Rep. 787.
The most strained doctrine of implied powers will not
grant a power to one tribunal by analogy to another when
there is grave doubt of the existence of such power in the
analogous tribunal.
Mr. D-Cady Herrick, with whom Mr. Henry M. Goldfogle and Mr. Martin W. Littleton were on the brief, for
appellee:
The only question open in habeas corpus is that of jurisdiction. In re Chapman, 156 U. S. 211, 215; In re Taylor,
149 U. S. 164; Kingsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101-106;
Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 29, 42, 43. If the House of
Representatives had jurisdiction no court can review its
action, and it must be treated as sole judge of the question
whether the facts constituted a contempt of its power,
dignity and authority. In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 595-600.
Each department of the government is supreme within
its own sphere and immune -from intrusion by the others.
See Henry v. Henkel, 235 U. S. 219, 227, 228. For the
court to review the action of the House would be to draw
to itself, in the first instance, the control of all proceedings
relative to contempts by either branch of Congress. Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, is distinguishable in
that it was an action for damages, brought after the House
had acted and punished complainant for contempt,
wherein the legality of its action was directly questioned.
Congress has power to punish for contempts committed
against it when engaged in any matter within its jurisdiction.
The English cases touching the power of Parliament
having been so fully considered in the Kilbourn Case, and
in the Nugent Case, 18 Fed. Cas. 471, we deem it unnecessary to discuss them or consider whether Congress in

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellee.

243 U. S.

either branch can trace the power back to Parliament.
We confine ourselves to What Congress has done and what
the courts of this country have decided.
The power was exercised in the cases of ILmdall (1795)
and Duane (1800). Hinds' Precedents, pp. 1047-1052;
Story Const., §848. These were followed by a number
of others. Hinds' Precedents, vols. 2 and 3, pp. 1047
et seq. It was sustained in Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat.
204; Hinds' Precedents, pp. 1056 et seq.; and the Nugent
Case, supra;Hinds' Precedents, pp. 1110 et seq.
The law as settled by Anderson v. Dunn was followed by
courts and text-writers in this country and remained
unquestioned until Kilbourn v. TUmpson., See Ex parte
Dalton, 44 Ohio St. 142; Story Const., § 847, pp. 614-:615;
Rawle Const., c. 4, p. 48; Hare's Am. Const. Law, vol. 2,
pp. 850-851.
Kilbourn v. Thompson is authority only for the proposition that where the matter under investigation is beyond
the jurisdiction of the House there is no authority in
either House to compel'a witness to testify as to the subject under investigation; and the opinion clearly indicates
(p. 193) that if it had been an impeachment proceeding
Kilbourn could have been punished for contempt for refusing to answer questions propounded to him as a witness before the committee conducting the investigation.
The question whether the power exists as one necessary
to enable either House to exercise successfully its function
of legislation was not decided.
Either House may punish disorderly behavior of its
members, compel attendance of witnesses, and the production of papers in election and impeachment cases and
in any case that may involve the existence of those bodies.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S.
447, 485. Refusal to answer pertinent questions in a
matter of inquiry within the jurisdiction of the Senate
constitutes a contempt of that body, and by statute is also

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

punishable as an offense against the United States. In re
Chapman, 166 U. S. 661.
If the House through its committee was engaged in a
judicial proceeding at the time of the commission of the
alleged contempt, then within the reasoning of Kilbournv.
Thompson it had power and jurisdiction to punish for contempt. The committee was considering charges that
appellant had 'committed impeachable offenses and impeaching him therefor, and was engaged in taking evidence in relation thereto. Impeachments are judicial
proceedings. Wilson's Works, vol. 2, p. 45, citing 2 Hale,
P. C., p. 150; 4 Black. Com., p. 256; Hare's Am. Const.
Law, p. 855; Kilbourn v. Thompson, supra, pp. 190, 191.
The House of Representhtives and the Judiciary Committee acting for it and as a part of it is as much a portion of the court of impeachment as a grand jury is a part
of the court to which it is attached. A publication in relation to the grand jury is punishable as a contempt.
Percival v. State, 50 Am. St. Rep. (note) 575. In matters
over which the House has jurisdiction it. may subpcena
witnesses and punish for contempt for not appearing, or
refusing to testify; and the writing and publication of letters attacking the honesty of the motives and
integrity of the House is a matter much more likely to
discredit Congress and bring it into contempt than merely
disobeying its subpoena.
If the power exists at all, it must exist for all kinds of
contempts, and once conceded it is not divisible. The
courts will not interfere (the House having jurisdiction
in the premises) to say that it can punish for one kind of
contempt and not for another.
The House has jurisdiction to punish, as an exercise of
power necessary to enable it to fully exercise -the powers
expressly conferred. Congress has power to "make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for, carrying into
execution" the powers expressly granted by Article I

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

of the Constitution-legislative powers; but it is the fundamental law that, in addition, by implication, in the absence of any express.limitations thereon, it possesses those
necessary to'enable it to discharge the duties and obligations expressly conferred upon it. :United States v. Fisher,
2 Cranch, 358, 396; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 413, 421; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 533, 534,
538; -United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry., 160 U. S.
668, 681.
In the light of the interpretations given to the word
"necessary" in the clause of the Constitution above
quoted, it can hardly be denied that the power to punish
for contempt is a power necessary to enable Congress to
perform the functions allotted to it by the Constitution.
In exercising legislative functions, or when considering
charges of impeachment, its members should be free
from assaults upon their integrity or the honesty of their
motives; they should be as uninfluenced in their deliberations. as should the courts, and to that end they should
have the same means of protecting themselves from disturbing. influences. The power to punish for contempt is
inherent in all courts of justice and legislative bodies.
Yates v. Lansing, 9 Johns. 385, 416; Anderson v. Dunn,
6 Wheat. 204, 226-228; In re Chapman, supra, p. 668.
For Congress, or either branch of it, when acting within
its jurisdiction, to itself summarily punish those guilty of
contempt is to proceed by direction and not by indirection
to a legitimate end by means not prohibited by the Constitution (McCulloch v. Maryland, supra, p. 421), and by a
method peculiarly appropriate and plainly adapted to its
protection.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
These are the facts: A member of the House of Representatives on the floor charged the appellant, who was the

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

district attorney of the Southern District of New York,
with many acts of misfeasance and nonfeasance., When
this was done the grand jury in the Southern District of
New York was engaged in investigating alleged illegal
conduct of the member in relation to the Sherman AntiTrust Law and asserted illegal activities of an organization
known as Labor's National Peace Council to which the
member belonged. The investigation as to the latter
subject not having been yet reported upon by the grand
jury, that body found an indictment against the member
for a violation of the Sherman Law. Subsequently calling
attention to his previous charges and stating others, the
member requested that the judiciary committee be directed to inquire and report concerning the charges against
the appellant in so far as they constituted impeachable
offenses. After the adoption of this resolution a subcommittee was appointed which proceeded to New York, to
take testimony. Friction there arose between the sub-.
committee and the office of the district attorney based
upon the assertion that the subcommittee was seeking to.
unlawfully penetrate the proceedings of the grand jury
relating to the indictment and the investigations in question. In a daily newspaper an article appeared charging
that the writer was informed that the subcommittee was
endeavoring rather to investigate and frustrate the action
of the grand jury than to investigate the conduct of the
district attorney. When called upon by the subcommittee
to disclose the name of his informant the writer declined
to do so and proceedings for contempt of the House were
threatened. The district attorney thereupon addressed a
letter to the chairman of the subcommittee avowing that
he was the informant referred to in the article, averring
that the charges were true and repeating them in amplified
form in language which was certainly unparliamentary and
manifestly ill-tempered and which was well calculated to
arouse the indignation not only of the members of the

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

subcommittee but of those of the House generally. This
letter was given to the press so that it might be published
contemporaneously with its receipt by the chairman of
the subcommittee. The judiciary committee reported
the matter to the House and a select committee was appointed to consider the subject. The district attorney was
called before that committee and re-asserted the charges
made in the letter, averring that they were justified
by the circumstances and stating that they would
under the same conditions be made again. Thereupon
the select committee made a report and stated its conclusions and recommendations to the House as follows:
"We conclude and find that the aforesaid letter written
and published by said H. Snowden Marshall to Hon. C. C.
Carlin, chairman of the subcommittee of the Judiciary
Committee of the House of Representatives, on March 4,.
1916 . . . .is as a whole and in several of the separate
sentences defamatory and insulting and tends to bring the
House into public contempt and ridicule, and that the said
H. Snowden Marshall, by writing and publishing the same,
is guilty of contempt of the House of Representatives of
the United States because of the violation of its privileges,
its honor and its dignity."
Upon the adoption of this report under the authority of
the House a formal warrant for arrest was issued and its
execution by the Sergeant-at-Arms in New York was
followed by an application for discharge on habeas corpus
and the correctness of the judgment of the court below
refusing the same is the matter before us on this direct
appeal.
Whether the House had power under the Constitution
to deal with the conduct of the district attorney in writing
the letter as a contempt of its authority and to inflict
punishment upon the writer for such contempt as a matter
of legislative power, that is, without subjecting him to the

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

533

Opinion of the Court.

statutory modes of trial provided for criminal offenses'
protected by the limitations and safeguards which the
Constitution imposes as to such subject, is 'the question
which is before us. There is unity between the parties
only in one respect, that is, that the existence of constitutional power is the sole matter to be decided. As to all
else there is entire discord, every premise of law or authority relied upon by the one side being challenged in
some respects by the other. We consider, therefore, that
the shortest way to meet and dispose of the issue is to.
treat the subject as one of first impression, and we proceed
to do so.
.Undoubtedly what went before the adoption of the
Constitution may be resorted to for the purpose of throwing light on its provisions. Certain is it that authority was
possessed by the House of Commons in England to punish
for contempt directly, that is, without the intervention
of courts, and that such power included a variety of acts
and many forms of punishment including the right to fix a
prolonged term of imprisonment. Indubitable also is it,
however, that this power rested upon an assumed blending
of legislative and judicial authority possessed by the
Parliament when .the Lords and Commons were one and
continued to operate after the division of the Parliament
into two houses either because the interblended power was
thought to continue to reside in the Commons, or by the
force of routine the mere reminiscence of the commingled
powers led to a continued exercise of the wide authority as
to contempt formerly existing long after the foundation of
judicial-legislative power upon which it rested had ceased
to exist. That this exercise of the right of legislativejudicial power to exert the authority stated prevailed
in England at the time of the adoption of. the Constitution and for some time. after has been so often
recognized by the decided cases relied upon and by
decisions of this court, some of which are in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

margin,I as to make it too certain for anything but statement.
Clear also is it, however, that in the state governments
prior to the formation of the Constitution the incompatibility of the intermixture of the legislative and judicial
power was recognized and the duty of separating the two
was .felt, as was manifested by provisions contained in
some of the state constitutions enacted prior to the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, as illustrated
by the following articles in the constitutions of Maryland
and Massachusetts.
"That the House of Delgates may punish, by imprisonment, any person who shall be guilty of a contempt in
their view, by any disorderly or riotous behavior, or by
threats to, or abuse of their members, or by any obstruction to their proceedings. They may also punish, by
imprisonment, any person who shall be guilty of a breach
of privilege, by arresting on civil process, or by assaulting
any of their members, during their sitting, or on their
way to, or return from the House of Delegates, or by any
assault -of, or obstruction to their officers, in the execution
of any order or process, or by assaulting or obstructing any
witness, or any other person, attending on, or on their
way to or from the House, or by rescuing any person
committed by the House: and the Senate may exercise
the same power, in similar cases." Constitution of Maryland, 1776, Article XII.
. "They [the house of representatives] shall have authority to punish by imprisonment every person, not a
member, who shall be guilty of disrespect to the house, by
any disorderly or contemptuous behavior in its presence;
or who, in the town where the general court is sitting, and
during. the time of its sitting, shall threaten harm to the
I Brass Crosby's Case, 3 Wils. 188; Burdett v. Abbot, 14 East, 1;
Stockdale v. Iansard, 9 Ad. & El. 1; Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheaton,
204; Kilbourn*v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168.

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

body or estate of any of its members, for anything said
or done in the house; or who shall assault any of them
therefor; or who shall assault or arrest any witness, or
other person, -ordered to attend the house, in his way in
going or returning; or who shall rescue any person arrested by the order of the house.
"And no member of the house of representatives shall
be arrested, or held to bail on mesne process, during his
going unto, returning fromA, or his attending the general
assembly.
"The senate shall have the same powers in the like
cases; and the governor and council shall have the same
authority to punish in like cases: Provided, That no imprisonment, on the warrant or order of the governor,
*council, senate, or house of representatives, for either of
the above-described offences, be for a term exceeding
thirty days." Constitution of Massachusetts, 1780, part
second, chapter 1, § 3, Articles X and XI.
The similarity of the provisions points to the identity
of the evil which they were intended to reach. Clearly
they operate to destroy the admixture of judicial and
legislative power as prevailing in the House of Commons
since the provisions in both the state constitutions and the
limitations accompanying them are wholly incompatible
with judicial authority. Moreover, as under state constitutions all governmental power not denied is possessed,
the provisions were clearly not intended to give legislative
power as such, for full legislative power to deal with the
enumerated acts as criminal offenses and provide for their
punishment accordingly already obtained. The object,
therefore, of the provisions could only have been to
recognize the right of the legislative 'power to deal with
the particular acts without reference to their violation of
the criminal law and their susceptibility of being punished
under that law because of the, necessity of such ,a legislative authority to prevent or punish the acts independently

536

OCTO3ER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U1. S.

because of the destruction of legislative power which would
arise from such acts if such authority was not possessed.
How dominant these views were can be measurei by the
fact that in various other States almost contemporaneously with the adoption of the Constitution similar
provisions were written into their constitutions and continued to be adopted until it is true to say that they became if not universal, certainly largely predominant in
the States. 1
No power was expressly conferred by the Constitution
of the United States on the subject except that given to
the House to deal with contempt committed by its own
members. Article I, § 5. As the rule concerning the Constitution of the United States is that powers not delegated
were reserved to the people or the States, it follows that
no other express authority to deal with contempt can be
conceived of. It comes then to this, was such an authority
implied from the powers granted? As it is unthinkable
that in any case from a power expressly granted there can
be implied the authority to destroy the grant made, and
as the possession b Congress of the commingled legislative-judicial authority as to contempts which was exerted
in the House of Commons would be absolutely destructive
of the distinction between legislative, executive and judicial. authority which is interwoven in the very fabric
of the Constitution and would. disregard express limitations
therein, it must follow that there is no ground whatever
for assuming that any implication as to such a power may
be deduced from any grant of authority made to Congress
by the Constitution. This conclusion has long since been
1790, South Carolina, Article I, § 13; 1792, Nw Hampshire, Part
second, §§ 22 and 23;. 1796, Tennessee, Article I, § 11; 1798, Georgia,
Article I, § 13; 1802, Ohio, Article I, § 14; 1816, Indiana, Article III,
§ 14; 1817, Mississippi, Article III, § 20; 1818, Illinois, Article II, § 13;
1820, Maine, Article IV, Part third, § 6; 1820, Missouri, Article III,

§ 19.

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
.N3 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authoritatively settled and is not open to be disputed.
Anderson v, Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204; Kilbourn v. Thompson,
103 U. S. 168. Whether the right to deal with contempt
in the limited way provided in the state constitutions may
be implied in 'Congress as the result of the legislative
power granted, must depend upon how far such limited
power is ancillary or incidental to the power, granted to
Congress,-a subject which we shall hereafter approach.
The rule of constitutional interpretation announced in
McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, that that which was
reasonably appropriate and relevant to the exercise of a
granted power was to be considered as accompanying the
grant, has been so universally applied that it suffices
merely to state it. And as there is nothing in the inherent
nature of the power to deal with contempt which causes it
to be an exception to such rule, there can be no reason for
refusing to apply it to that subject.
Thus in Anderson v. Dunn, supra, which was an action
for false imprisonment against the Sergeant-at-Arms of
the House for having executed a warrant for arrest issued
by that body in a contempt proceeding, after holding as
we have already said, that the power possessed by the
House of Commons was incompatible with the Constitution
and couldL not be exerted by the House, it was yet
explicitly
decided that from the power to legislate
given
by the Constitution to Congress there was to be implied
the right of Congress to preserve itself, that is, to deal by
way of contempt with direct obstructions to its legislative
duties. In Kilbourn v. Thompson, supra, which was also
a case of false imprisonment for arrest under a warrant
issued by order of the House in a contempt proceeding,
although the want of right of the House of Representatives
to exert the judicial-legislative • power possessed by the
House of Commons was expressly reiterated, the question
was reserved as to the right to imply an authority in the
House of Repriesentatives to deal with contempt as to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

subject-matter within its jurisdiction, the particular case
having been decided on the ground that the subject with
which the contempt proceedings were concerned was
totally beyond the jurisdiction of the House to investigate.
But in In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661, the principle of the
existence of an implied legislative authority under certain.
conditions to deal with contempt was again considered
and upheld. The case was this: Chapman had refused
to testify in .a Senate proceeding and was indicted under
§ 102 of the Revised Statutes making such refusal criminal.
He sued out a habeas corpus on the ground that the subject
of the refusal was exclusively cognizable by the Senate
and that therefore the statute was unconstitutional as a
wrongful delegation by the Senate of its authority and
because to subject him to prosecution under the statute
might submit him'to double jeopardy, that is, leave him
after punishment under the statute to be dealt with by
the Senate as for contempt. After demonstrating the
want of merit in the argument as to delegation of authority, the proposition was held to be unsound and the contention as to double'jeopardy was also adversely disposed
of on the ground of the distinction between the implied
right to punish for contempt and the authority to provide
by statute for punishment for wrongful acts and to prosecute under the same for a failure to testify, the court
saying that "the two being diverso intuito and capable
of standing togetherj" they were susceptible of being
separately exercised.
And light is thrown upon the right to imply legislative
power to deal directly by way of contempt without criminal prosecution with acts the prevention of which is
necessary to preserve legislative authority, by the decision
of the Privy Council in Kieltey v. Carson, 4 Moo. P. C. 63,
which was fully stated in Kilbourn v. Thompson, supra,but
which we again state. The case was this: Kielley was adjudged by the House of Assembly of Newfoundland

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

guilty of contempt for having reproached a member "in
coarse and. threatening language" for words spoken in
debate in the House. A. warrant was issued and Kielley
was arrested. When brought before the House he refused
to apologize and indulged in further violent language'
toward the member and was committed. Having been
discharged on habeas corpus proceedings, he brought an
action for false imprisonment against the Speaker and
other members of the House. As a justification the defendants pleaded that they had acted under the authority
of the House. A demurrer to the plea was overruled and
there was a judgment for the defendants. The appeal was
twice heard by the Privy Council, the court on the second
argument having been composed of the Lord Chancellor
(Lyndhurst), Lords Brougham, Denman, Abinger, Cottenham and Campbell, the Vice Chancellor (Shadwell), the
Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas. (Tindal), Mr.
Justice Erskine, Lushington and Baron Parke.
The opinion on reversal was written by Parke, B., who
said:
"The main question raised by the pleadings,
was whether the House of Assembly had the power to
arrest and bring before them, with a view to punishment,
a person charged by one of its Members with having used
insolent language to him out of the doors of the House,
in reference to his conduct as a Member of the Assemblyin other words, whether the House had the power, such
as is possessed by both Houses of Parliament in England,
to adjudicate upon a complaint of contempt or breach of
privilege."
After pointing out that the power was not expressly
granted to the local legislature by the Crown, it was said
the question was "whether by law, the power of committing for a contempt, not in the presence of the Assembly,
is incident to every local Legislature."
"The Statute Law on this subject being silent, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Common Law is to govern it; and what is the Common
Law, depends upon principle and precedent.
"Their Lordships see no reason to think, that in the
principle of the Common Law,,any other powers are given
them, than such as are necessary to the existence of such
a body, and the proper exercise of the functions which it
is intended to execute. These powers are granted by the
very act of its establishment, an act which on both sides,
it is admitted, it was competent for the Crown to perform.
This is the principle which governs all legal incidents."
And after quoting the aphorism of the Roman law to the
effect that the conferring of a given power carried with
it by implication the right to do those things which were
necessary to the carrying out of the power given, the
opinion proceeded: "In conformity to this principle we
feel no doubt that such an Assembly has the right of protecting itself from all impediments to the due course of its
proceeding. To the full extent of every measure which it
may be really necessary to adopt, to secure the free exercise of their Legislative functions, they are justified in
acting by the principle of the Common Law. But the
power of punishing any one for past misconduct as a contempt of its authority, and adjudicating upon the fact of
such contempt, and the measure of punishment as a judicial body, irresponsible to the party accused, whatever
the real facts may be, is of a very different character, and
by no means essentially necessary for the exercise of its
functions by a local Legislature, whether representative
or not,. All these functions may be well performed without
this extraordinary power, and with the aid of the ordinary
tribunals to investigate and punisfi contemptuous insults
and interruptions."
There can be no doubt that the ruling in the case just
stated upheld the existence of the implied power to punish
for contempt as distinct from legislative authority and yet
flowing from it. It thus becomes apparent that from a

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

doctrinal point of view the English rule concerning legislative bodies generally came to be in exact accord with
that which was recognized in Anderson v. Dunn, supra, as
belonging to Congress, that is, that in virtue of the grant
of legislative authority there would be a power, implied
to deal with contempt in so far as that authority was necessary to preserve and carry out the legislative authority
given. While the doctrine of Kielley v. Carson was thus
in substantive principle the same as that announced in
Anderson v. Dunn, we must not be understood as accepting
the application which was made of the rule to the particular case there in question since, as we shall hereafter
have occasion to show, we think that the application
was not consistent with the rule which the case announced
and would, if applied, unwarrantedly limit the implied
power of Congress to deal with contempt.
What does this implied power embrace? is thus the
question. In answering, it must be borne in mind that
the power rests simply upon the implication that the right
has been given to do that which is essential to the execution of some other and substantive authority expressly
conferred. The power is therefore but a force implied
to bring into existence the conditions to which constitutional limitations apply. It is a means to an end and not
the end itself. Hence it rests solely upon the right of selfpreservation to enable the public powers given to be
exerted.
These principles are plainly the result of what was
decided in Anderson v. Dunn, supra, since in that case in
answering the question what was the rule by which the
extent of the implied power .of legislative assemblies to
deal with contempt was controlled, it was declared to be
"the least possible power adequate to the end proposed,"
(6 Wheat. 231), which was but a form of stating that
as it resulted from implication and not from legislativ
will, the legislhtive will was powerless to extend it further

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

than implication would justify., The concrete applicatiori
of the definition and the principle upon which it rests were
aptly illustrated in In re Chapman, supra, where, because
of the distinction existing between the two which was
drawn, the implied power was, decided not to come under
the operation of a constitutional limitation applicable to a
case resting upon the exercise of substantive legislative
power.
Without undertakifig to inclusively mention the subjects embraced in the implied power, we think from the
very nature of that power it is clear that it does not embrace punishment for contempt as punishment, since it
rests only upon the right of self-preservation, that is, the
right to prevent acts which in and of themselves inherently
obstruct or prevent the discharge of legislative duty or.
the refusal to do that which there is an inherent legislative
power to compel in order that legislative functions may be
performed. And the essential nature of the power also
makes clear the cogency and application of the two
limitations which were expressly pointed out in Anderson
v. Dunn, supra, that is, that the power even when applied
to subjects which justified its exercise is limited to imprisonment and such imprisonment may not be extended
beyond the session of the body in which the contempt
occurred. Not only the adjudged cases but congressional
action in enacting legislation as well as in exerting the
implied power conolusively sustain the views just stated.
Take for instance the statute referred to in In re Chapman
where, not at all interfering with the implied congressional
power to deal with the refusal to give testimony in a matter where there was a right to exact it, the substantive
power had been exerted to make such refusal a crime,
the two being distinct the one from the other. So also
when the difference between the judicial and legislative
powers are considered and the divergent elements which
in the nature of things enter into the determination of

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

what is self-preservation in the two cases, the same result
is established by the statutory provisions dealing with
the judicial authority to summarily punish for contempt,
that is, without resorting to the modes of trial required
by constitutional limitations or otherwise for substantive
offenses under the criminal law. Act of Mauch 2, 1831,
4 Stat. 487. The legislative history of the exertion of the
implied power to deal with contempt by the Senate or
House of Representatives when Viewed comprehensively
from the beginning points to the distinction upon which
the power rests and sustains the limitations inhering in
it' which we have stated. The principal instances are
mentioned in the margin I and they all except two or three
deal with either physical obstruction of the legislative
body in the discharge of its duties, or physical assault
upon its members for action taken or words spoken in
the body, or obstruction of its officers in the performance
of their official duties, or the prevention of members from
attending so that their duties might be performed, or
finally with contumacy in refusing to obey orders to
produce documents or give testimony which there was a
right to compel. In the two or three instances not embraced in the classes we think it plainly appears that for
the moment the distinction was overlooked which existed
between the legislative power to make criminal every
form oflact which can constitute a contempt to be pun1795, attempt to bribe members of the House; 1800, publication of
criticism of the Senate; 1809, assault on dmember of the House; 1818,
attempt to bribe a member of the House; 1828, assault on the Secretary
to the President in the Capitol; 1832, assault on a member of the House;
1835, assault on a member of the House; 1842, contumacious witness;
1857, contumacious witness; 1858, contumacious witness; 1859, contumacious witness; 1865, assault on a member of the House; 1866,
assault on a clerk of a committee of the House; 1870, assault on a
member of the House; 1871, contumacious witness; 1874, contumacious
witness; 1876, contumacious witness; 1894, contumacious witness;
1913. assault on a member of the House.

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

ished according to the orderly process of law and the
accessory implied power to deal with particular acts as
contempts outside of the ordinary process of law because
of the effect such particular acts may have in preventing
the exercise of legislative authority. And in the debates
which ensued when the'various cases wpre under consideration it would seem that the difference between the legislative and the judicial power was also sometimes forgotten, that is to say, the legislative right to exercise
discretion was confounded with the want of-judicial power
to interfere with the legislative discretion when lawfully
exerted. But these considerations are accidental and do
not change the concrete result manifested by considering
the subject from the beginning. Thus we have been able
to discover no single instance where in the exertion of the
power to compel testimony restraint was ever made to
extend beyond the time when the witness should signify
his willingness to testify, the penalty or punishment for
the refusal remaining controlled by the generat criminal
law. So again we have been able to discover, no ifistance,
except the two or three above referred to,.where acts of
physical interference were treated as within the implied
power unless they possessed the obstructive or preventive
characteristics which we have stated, or any clse where
any restraint was imposed after it became manifest that
there was no room for a legislative judgment as to the
virtual continuance of the wrongful interference which was
the subject of consideration. And this latter statement
causes us to say, referring to Kielley v. Carson, supra,
that where a particular act because of its interference
with the right of self-preservation comes within the jurisdiction of the House to deal with directly under its implied power to preserve its functions and therefore without
resort to judicial proceedings under the general criminal
law, we are of opinion that authority does not cease to
exist because the act complained of had been committed

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243 U. S.

545

Opinion of the Court.

when the authority was exerted, for to so hold would be
to admit the authority and at the same time to deny it.
On the contrary when an act is of such a character as to
subject it to be dealt with as a contempt under the implied
authority, we are of opinion that jurisdiction is acquired
by Congress to act on the subject and therefore there
necessarily results from this power the right to determine
in the use of legitimate and fair discretion how far from
the nature and character of the act there is necessity for
repression to prevent immediate recurrence, that is to
say, the continued existence of the interference or obstruction to the exercise of the legislative power. And
of course in such -case as in every other, unless there be
manifest an absolute disregard of discretion and a mere
exertion of arbitrary power coming within the reach of
constitutional limitations, the exercise of the authority
is not subject to judicial interference.
It remains only to consider whether the acts which were
dealt with in the case in hand were of such a character
as to bring them within the implied power to deal with
contempt, that is, the accessory power possessed to prevent the right to exert the powers given from being obstructed and virtually destroyed. That they were not,
would seem to be demonstrated by the fact that the
contentions relied upon in the elaborate arguments at
bar to sustain the authority were principally rested not
upon such assumption, but upon the application and controlling force of the rule governing in the House of Commons. But aside from this, coming to test the question
by a consideration of the conclusion upon which the contempt proceedings were based as expressed in the report
of the select committee which we have previously quoted
and the action of the House of Representatives based on
it, there is room only for the conclusion that the contempt
'was deemed to result from the-writing of the letter not
because of any obstruction to the performance of legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

lative duty resulting from the letter or because the preservation of the power of the House to carry out its legislative
authority was endangered by its writing, but because of
the effect and operation which the irritating and illtempered statements made in the letter would produce
upon the public mind or because of the sense of indignation which it may be assumed was produced by the letter
upon the members of the committee and of the House
generally. But to state this situation is to demonstrate
that the contempt relied upon was not intrinsic to the
right of the House to preserve the means of discharging
its legislative duties, but was extrinsic to the discharge
of such dities and related only to the presumed operation
which the letter might have upon the public mind and the
indignation naturally felt by members of the committee
on. the subject. But these considerations plainly serve
to mark the broad boundary line which separates the
limited implied power to deal with classes of acts as contempts for self-preservation and the comprehensive legislative power to provide by law for punishment for wrongful acts.
The conclusions which we have stated bring about a
concordant operation of all the powers of the legislative
and judicial departments of the Government, express or
implied, as contemplated by the Constitution. And as
this is considered, the reverent thought may not be repressed that the result is due to the wise foresight of the
fathers manifested in state constitutions even before the
adoption of the Constitution of the United States by which
they substituted for the intermingling of the legislative
and judicial power to deal with contempt as it existed in
the House of Commons a system permitting the dealing
with that subject in such a way as to prevent the obstruction of the legislative powers granted and secure their
free exertion and yet at the same time not substantially
interfere with the great guarantees and limitations con-

MARSHALL v. GORDON.
243. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cerning the exertion of the power to criminally punish,a beneficent result which additionally arises from the
golden silence by which the framers of the Constitution
left the subject to be controlled by the implication of
authority resulting from the powers granted.
It is suggested in argument that whatever be the general rule, it is here not applicable because the House was
considering and its committee contemplating impeachment proceedings. The argument is irrelevant because
we are of opinion that the premise upon which it rests is
unfounded. But indulging in the assumption to the contrary we think it is wholly without merit as we see no
reason for holding that if the situation suggested be
assumed it authorized a disregard of the plain purposes
and objects of the Constitution as we have stated them.
Besides it must be apparent that the suggestion could not
be accepted without the conclusion that under the hypothesis stated the implied power to deal with contempt as
ancillary to the legislative power had been transformed
into judicial authority and become subject to all the
restrictions and limitations imposed by the Constitution
upon that authority,-a conclusion which would frustrate
and destroy the very purpose which the proposition is
advanced to accomplish and would create a worse evil
than that which the wisdom of the fathers corrected before the Constitution of the United States was adopted.
How can this be escaped, since it is manifest that if the
argument were to be sustained those things which, as
pointed out in In re Chapman; supra, were distinct and
did not therefore the one frustrate the other-the implied
legislative authority to compel the giving of testimony
and the right criminally to punish for failure to do sowould become one and the same and the exercise of one
would therefore be the exertion of, and the exhausting
of the right to resort to, the other. Again, accepting
the proposition, by what process of reasoning .could the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

conclusion be escaped that the right to exert implied
authority by way of contempt proceedings in so far as

essential to preserve legislative power would become itself
an exertion of legislative power and thus at once be subject to the limitations as to modes of trial exacted by the
guarantee of the Constitution on that subject. We repeat, out of abundance of precaution, we are called upon
to consider not the legislative power of Congress to provide for punishment and prosecution under the criminal
laws in the amplest degree for any and every wrongful
act, since we are alone called upon to determine the limits
and extent of an ancillary and implied authority essential
to preserve the fullest legislative power, which would
necessarily perish by operation of the Constitution if not
confined to the particular ancillary atmosphere from which
alone the power arises and upon which its existence depends.
It follows from what we have said that the court below
erred in refusing to grant the writ of habeas corpus and its
action must be and it is, therefore reversed, and the case
remanded with directions to discharge the relator from
custody.
And it is so ordered.

