STAATS CO. v. SECURITY TRUST & SAV'GS BANK. 121
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

the contract of purchase. Until knowledge of this fraudulent transaction, or facts equivalent thereto, was brought
home to those authorized to act, there could be no laches
in the failure to prosecute the suit.
Nor do we find merit in the contention that the sevenyear statute of limitations (Remington & Ballinger's
Annotated Codes and Statutes of Washington, ยง 789), in
favor of persons in the actual and notorious possession of
lands under claim of title in good faith, has any application here. Under the facts found Baker does not come
within the class' protected by this statute.
Other points are urged but it is enough to say that we
find no error in the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and it is
Affirmed.

WILLIAM R. STAATS COMPANY ET AL. v. SECURITY TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT..
No. 608.

Motion to dismiss. Submitted January 10, 1917.-Decided
March 6, 1917.

A suit brought by a trustee in bankruptcy under ยง 60b of. the Bankruptcy Act to set aside an unlawful preference is a controversy
arising in a bankruptcy proceeding.'
In such. controversies, judgments and. decrees of the Circuit Courts of
Appeals which might otherwise have come within the general appellate powers of this court as defined by the Judicial Code are, by
the Act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat. 804, made final, and this court
may review them only by certiorari.
Appeal to review 233 'Fed. Rpm,- 514. dismissed.

The case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Mr. Jefferson P. Chandler and Mr. W. T. Craig for
appellee, in support of the motion.
Mr. H. W. O'Melveny, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr.
Evans Browme for appellants, in opposition to the motion.
Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. JusncF, DAY.

This is a motion to dismiss the appeal in a suit brought
originally in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of California by the Security Trust
and Savings Bank, as trustee in bankruptcy of the estate
of Fielding J. Stilson Company, against William R. Staats
Company and Title Insurance and Trust Company, the
complaint alleging that the Stilson Company was adjudged a bankrupt on October 24th, 1912; that the Stilson Company made and delivered to the Title Insurance
and Trust Company a deed of trust for certain realty,
situated in the City of Los Angeles, to secure an indebtedness in the sum of $3,870.00, due by the Stilson Company to the Staats Company; that the effect of this conveyance was to enable the Staats Company to receive a
greater percentage of its indebtedness than other creditors of the same class, and that the conveyance was made
with a view to giving a preference, in violation of the
Bankruptcy Act, and-a decree was prayed declaring the
conveyance void and of no effect.
The suit was brought by authority of ยง 60b of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898. On issues made, the case was referred to a special master, who found the conveyance by
the Stilson Company to the Title Insurance and Trust
Company to have been made and received as-security
for an indebtedness in the sum of $3,870.00, then due by
the Stilson Company to the Staats Company and that
the same was an unlawful preference within the meaning

STAATS CO. v. SECURITY TRUST & SAV'GS BANK. 123
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Bankruptcy Act. Upon exceptions to the master's
report, the District Court overruled some exceptions and
sustained others, and dismissed the complaint. An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit, which court reached the conclusion that
the. conveyance in question was a preference within the
meaning of the Bankruptcy Act, reversed the decree of
the District Court, and remanded the case to that court
with directions to enter a judgment in favor of the complainant. 233 Fed. Rep. 514. Afterwards an appeal
from "this decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was allowed to this court.
We think it is plain that this appeal must be dismissed.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was made
final by the Act of Congress of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat.
804, and the only right of review in this court is by writ of
certiorari. This act provides: "That the judgments and
decrees of the circuit courts of appeals in all proceedings
and cases arising under the Bankruptcy Act and in all
controversies arising in such proceedings and cases shall
be final,' save only that it shall be competent for the Supreme Court to require by certiorari, upon the petition
of any party thereto, that the proceeding, case, or controversy be certified to it for review and determination,
with the same power and authority as if taken to that
court by appeal or writ of error; but certiorari shall not
be allowed in any such proceeding, case, or controversy
unless the petition therefor is presented to the Supreme
Court within three months from the date of such judgment
or decree."
The language of this act is very comprehensive, and
.embraces proceedings and cases arising under the Bankruptcy Act and controversies arising in such proceedings,
and provides that the judgments and decrees of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in such controversies, proceedings and cases shall be final. The case now under con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

sideration is a controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296;
Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223; Tefft, Weller & Company v.
Munsuri, 222 U. S. 114; Barnes v. Pampel, Circuit Court
of Appeals, 6th Circuit, 192 Fed. Rep. 525.
We find no merit in the contention that, after the passage of the Act of 1915, appellate proceedings in this
court in such suits as this should continue to be controlled by the general provisions of the Judicial Code.
This statute manifested the purpose of Congress to relieve this court from the necessity of considering cases
of this character, except when brought here by the writ
of certiorari. Central Trust Co. v. Lueders, 239 U. S. 11;
Shattuck, Trustee, v. Title Guaranty & Surety Co., 239
U. S. 637.
It follows that the motion to dismiss this appeal for
want of jurisdiction must be granted.
Appeal dismissed.

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.'
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Nos. 650, 722. Argued January 15, 16, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
The British merchant steamship Appam., captured on the high seas
by a German cruiser and navigated to a port of the United States
in control of German officers and crew, during the war between
The docket titles of these cases are: No. 650, Hans Berg, Prize
Master in charge of the Prize Ship "Appam," and L. M. Von Schilling,
Vice-Consul of the German Empire, Appellants, v. British & African
Steam Navigation Co.; No. 722, Same v. Henry G. Harrison, Master
of the Steamship "Appam."

