OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

see West End & Atlanta Street R. R. Co. v. Atlanta Street
R. R. Co., 49 Georgia, 151, 158.
Considering the entire Act of 1914 we are unable to
conclude that the legislature did not intend to authorize
the county authorities to require appellant to pay "a
sum equal to one-third of the actual cost of the building
.of said bridges" before being allowed to use the same.
Affirmed.

PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY
COMPANY v. McKIBBIN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 136. Argued January 25, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
In the absence of consent, a corporation of one State may not be summoned in another, in an action in personam, unless it is doing busi-

ness in the State where it is served in such manner and to such extent as to warrant the inference that it is present there.
The process must be served on some authorized agent of the corpora-

tion.
The questions whether the corporation was doing business and whether
the person served was its authorized agent being vital to the jurisdiction, either, if duly raised, is subject to be reviewed directly by
this court, as to findings of fact as well as legal conclusions, upon certificate from the District Court under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code.
A railroad corporation not owning or operating any part of its railway,
or holding other property, within a State, may not be said to be doing
business there merely because cars shipped by it, loaded with the
goods of its shippers, pass into that State, and are returned therefrom, over the line of a connecting carrier (each carrier receiving only
its proportionate share of the freight charged for the interstate haul,)
or because the connecting carrier, within the State, sells coupon
tickets and displays the other carrier's name at its station and in the
telephone directory, to promote travel and public convenience.
The fact that corporations subsidiary to another are doing business in a

PHILA. & READING RY. CO. v. McKIBBIN.
243 U. S.

265

Opinion of the Court.

State does not warrant finding that the other is present there, doing
business.
Whether a corporation doing business in a State may be served there on
a cause of action arising in another State and unrelated to the business in the first-not decided.
An arrangement by counsel, designed merely to facilitate an attempted
service of summonis on the president of a corporation while passing
through a State and engaged on his private affais, does not estop
the corporation from contesting the jurisdiction upon the ground
that it was not doing business in the State.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. PierreM. Brown for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph A. Shay, with whom Mr. L. B. McKelvey
was on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
A foreign corporation is amenable to process to enforce
a personal liability, in the absence of consent, only if it
is doing business within the State in such manner and to
such extent as to warrant the inference that it is present
there. And even if it is doing business within the State
the process will be valid only if served upon some authorized agent. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Alexander,
227 U. S. 218, 226. Whether the corporation was doing
business within the State and whether the person served
was an authorizied agent are questions vital to the jurisdiction of the court. A decision of the lower court on
either question if duly challenged is subject to review in
this court; and the review extends to findings of fact as
well as to conclusions of law. Herndon-Carter Co. v.
Norris, Son & Co., 224 U. S. 4.96; Wetmore v. Rymer, 169
U. S. 115. The main question presented here is whether

OCTO3ER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the plaintiff in error-defendant below-whs doing business in New York.
The Philadelphia and Reading Railway Company, a
Pennsylvania corporation, operated a railroad in that
State and in New Jersey. McKibbin, a citizen and resident of New York, was a brakeman in one of its New
Jersey freight yards. For injuries sustained there, he
brought this action in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York. The summons
was served on defendant's president, while he was passing
through New York engaged exclusively on personal matters unconnected with the company's affairs: The defendant appeared specially in the cause for the sole purpose of moving to set aside the service of the summons;
and invoked the provisions of the Federal Constitution
guaranteeing due process of law.. The motion was denied
"upon the sole ground that upon the facts stated in the
affidavits said defendant is doing business within the State
of New York, so as to be subject to service of process
within said state." Under a right reserved in the order,
the objection to the jurisdiction was renewed in the answer; and insisted upon at the trial before the jury. The
motion to dismiss was again heard upon the affidavits
originally presented; and was denied. Exceptions were
duly taken. A verdict was rendered for the plaintiff;
judgment entered thereon; and the case brought here on
writ of error; the question of jurisdiction being certified
in conformity to ยง 238 of the Judicial Code.
The affidavits established the following facts: No part
of the Philadelphia & Reading's railroad is situated within
the State of New York. It has no dock or freight or
passenger ticket office or any other office or any agent or
property therein. Like other railroads distant from New
York, it sends into that State over connecting carriers
loaded" freight cars, shipped by other persons, which cars
are in course of time returned. The carriage within that

PHILA. & READINP3 RY. CO.' v. McKIBBIN.
243 U. S.

267

Opinion of the Court.

State is performed wholly by such connecting carriers,
which receive that portion of the entire compensation paid
by the shipper therefor; and the Philadelphia & Reading
receives only that portion of the compensation payable
for the haul over its own line. The Central Railroad of
New Jersey is such a connecting carrier; and has a ferry
terminal at the foot of W. 23rd St., New York City. It
issues there the customary coupon tickets over its own
and connecting lines, including the Philadelphia & Reading and the Baltimore & Ohio. The whole ticket, in each
case, is issued by the Central Railroad of New Jersey; and
each coupon so recites. In these tickets there is a separate
coupon for the journey.over each of the connecting railroads; and the coupon for the journey over each such
railroad bears also its name. Each coupon is declared
thereon to be "void if detached." The Philadelphia &
Reading receives in ultimate accounting between the carriers that portion of the fare which is paid for the journey
over its own line. Passengers for points on the Philadelphia & Reading or on the Baltimore & Ohio, or beyond,
.may reach these railroads over the Central Railroad of
New Jersey. At various places in and on this ferry terminal are signs bearing the name "Philadelphia & Reading,"
"P. & R." or "Reading "-and also like signs of the
"Baltimore & Ohio," or "B. & 0." In the New York
telephone directory there are inserted the words "Phila.
& Reading Ry., ft. W. 23rd St. Chelsea 6550." These
signs on the terminal, this insertion in the telephone di,rectory, and the information given in response to enquiries
at the ticket office or over the telephone are all designed
to facilitate and encourage travel and for the convenience
of the public. Neither the Philadelphia & Reading nor
the Baltimore & Ohio has any office or any employee at
the terminal. The Philadelphia & Reading did not direct
the insertion of its name in the telephone. book. Chelsea
6550 is the number of the trunk line of the Central Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

road of New Jersey; and that company pays the whole
expense of the telephone service.
An affidavit filed on plaintiff's behalf states that the
names of the Philadelphia & Reading Coal & Iron Co.
and of the Philadelphia & Reading Trans. Line, Towing
Dept., appear in the telephone directory as at 143 Liberty
Street, telephone number 5672 Cortlandt; and upon
information and belief alleges that these are subsidiary
companies of the Philadelphia & Reading and "tow the
cars of said Company from the Jersey points to the City
of New York."
The finding that the defendant was doing business
within the State of New York is disproved by the facts
thus established. The defendant transacts no business
there; nor is any business transacted there on its behalf,
except in the sale of coupon tickets. Obviously the sale
by a local carrier of through tickets does not involve a
doing of business within the State by each of the connecting carriers. If it did, nearly every railroad company in
the country would be "doing business" in every State.
Even hiring an office, the employment by a foreign railroad of a "district freight and passenger agent
to solicit and procure passengers and freight to be transported over the defendant's line," and having under his
direction "several clerks and various traveling passenger
and freight agents" was held not to constitute "doing
business within the State." Green v. Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 530. Nor would the fact, if
established by competent evidence, that "subsidiary companies" did business within the State, warrant a finding
that the defendant did business there. Petersonv. Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364. As the defendant did no business in New York, we need not consider its other contention, that it could not be sued
there on a cause of action arising in New Jersey and
in no way connected with the business alleged to be

PENNINGTON v. FOURTH NATL.. BANK.
243 U. S.

269

Syllabus.

done in New York. On this proposition we express no
opinion.
On behalf of the plaintiff it was also urged that an
arrangement between counsel by which service of the
summons had been facilitated operated as a waiver of all
objections to the jurisdiction of the court. We find this
contention to be unfounded.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed and the
cause remanded to that court with directions to dismiss
it for want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.

PENNINGTON v. FOURTH NATIONAL BANK OF
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
ERROR-TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 147.

Argued January 26, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

The power of the States to seize tangible and intangible property and
apply it to satisfy the obligations of absent owners is not obstructed
by the Federal Constitution.
The power is the same whether the obligation soughf to be enforced
be admitted or contested, liquidated or unliquidated, inchoate or
mature.
The only essentials to its exercise are the presence of the res, its seizure
at the commencement of proceedings, and the opportunity of the
owner to be heard.
Where these essentials exist, a decree for alimony will be valid under
the same circumstances and to the same extent as a judgment on a
debt, i. e., valid as a charge upon the property seized. So held,
where the property was the divorced husband's bank account.
Property not subject to attachment at la-- may be reached in equity;
an injunction entered at the commencement of proceedings for divorce and alimony may operate as a seizure, in the nature of a garnishment, of defendant's account in bank.
92 Ohio St., 517, affirmed.

