OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

From this it is plain that § 152 of the Code applies to
suits in the District Courts, as well as to those in the Court
of Claims.
Judgments affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

WILSON, UNITED STATES ATTORNEY FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI, v. NEW ET
AL., RECEIVERS OF THE MISSOURI, OKLAHOMA & GULF RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 797.

Argued January 8,9, 10, 1917.-Decided March 19, 1917.

The effect of the Act of September 3, 5, 1916, entitled "An Act to establish an eight-hour day for employees of carriers engaged in interstate and foreign commerce, and for other purposes, ' c. 436, 39 Stat.
721, is not only to establish permanently an eight-hour standard
for work and wages as between the carriers and employees affected,
but also to fix a scale of minimum wages, to wit, the rate of wages
then existing, for the eight-hour day and proportionately for overtime, to be in force only during the limited period defined by the act.
Viewed as an act establishing an eight-hour day as the standard of
service by employees, the statute is clearly within the power of Congress under the commerce clause.
The power to establish an eight-hour day does not beget the power to
fix wages.
In an emergnncy arising from a nation-wide dispute over wages between railroad companies and their train operatives, in which a
general strike, commercial paralysis and grave loss and suffering
overhang the country because the disputants are unable to agree,

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

Congress has power to prescribe a standard of minimum wages, not
confiscatory in its effects but obligatory on both parties, to be in
force for a reasonable time, in order that the calamity may be averted
and that opportunity may be afforded the contending parties to
agree upon and substitute a standard of their own.
Where a particular subject lies within the commerce power, the extent
to which it may be regulated depends on its nature and the appropriateness of means.
The business of common carriers by rail is in one aspect a public business, b ecause of the interest of society in its continued operation and
rightful conduct; and this public interest gives rise to a public right
of regulation to the full extent necessary to secure and protect it.
Although emergency may not create power (Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall.
2), it may afford reason for exerting a power already enjoyed.
The act above cited in substance and effect amounts to an exertion of
the power of Congress, existing under the circumstances, to arbitrate compulsorily the dispute between the parties-a power susceptible of exercise by direct legislation as well as by enactment of
other appropriate means for reaching the same result.
Viewed as an act fixing wages, the statute merely illustrates the character of regulation essential, and hence permissible, for the protection of the public right.
The act does not invade the private rights of carriers, since all their
business and property must be deemed subject to the regulatory
power to insure fit relief by appropriate means.
The act does not invade private rights of employees, since their rights
to demand wages according to their desire and to leave the employment, individually or in concert, if the demand is refused, are not
such as they might be if the employment were in private business,
but are necessarily subject to limitation by Congress, the employment accepted being in a business charged with a public interest
which Congress may regulate under the commerce power.
The act is not wanting in equality of protection either because it exempts certain short-line and electric railroads, or because it deals
with the wages of those employees only who are engaged in the movement of trains-they being the class concerned in the dispute which
threatened interruption of commerce.
Whether the provision for penalties is unconstitutional will not be determined in a suit not concerning penalties.
The history of the dispute, the inquiries and circumstances which culminated in the legislation, the nature of the provisions made and a
comparison of them with the issues which existed between the dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellant.

243 U. S.

putants, refute the claim that the act was passed without consideration and in arbitrary disregard of the rights of the carriers and the
public.
After the paramount duty to enforce the Constitution, the very highest
of judicial duties is to give effect to the legislative will, with judgment
uninfluenced by those considerations which belong to the legislature
alone.

The contention that the act is unworkable is without merit.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor Generaland Mr. Frank Hagerman, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood were on the briefs, for appellant.
The act is constitutional as an hours-of-service law.
It is constitutional if purely a wage law. From the beginning, Congress's power. over interstate commerce has
been declared to be supreme. It consists of "direct supervision, control, and management" and extends to the
regulation of employees while engaged in interstate commerce; also to the regulation of the relations of common
carriers and their employdes while both are engaged in
interstate commerce. Second Employers' Liability Cases,
223 U. S. 1, 48-49. The wage regulation here involved
has substantial connection with interstate commerce,
because its natural tendency is to keep open the channels
of interstate commerce and render such commerce safer
and more efficient. Whether looked at from the standpoint of promoting. commerce or removing obstructions
to its free flow, the regulation of wages bears a close relation to the proper performance by carriers of their
public duties. The efficiency and safety of railroad service
depend upon the skill and physical fitness of the employees. It is just as necessary to properly care for employees
as to keep in good'condition the physical instrumentalities used in interstate commerce. Physical efficiency is

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.,

Argument for Appellant.

impossible without proper living conditions, which demand suitable food, clothing, housing, rest, and recreation. These, in turn, can not be secured without the payment of an adequate wage. An adequate wage, therefore,
is essential to safe, regular, and efficient service in interstate commerce, and the public, through Congress, has
a right to demand its payment. Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 570.
On the other hand, the public is interested in preventing
the payment of wages which are too high, sihce they constitute the largest element in the cost of transportation
and necessarily affect rates. An unreasonably high wage
means an unjust rate or impaired service. In either event,
it is the public that pays, and the public has the right to
demand the regulation of wages to the end that it may
enjoy reasonable and just rates.
But wage regulation has a still more vital connection
with interstate commerce. Disputes about wages may be;
and frequently are, the cause of interference with or entire stoppage of the flow of interstate commerce. In this
law the idea of the board of arbitration has been adopted,
though the regulation is.accomplished by direct action of
Congress rather than through the instrumentality of a
commission. And by this regulation of the wage relation
and the hours of service of railroad employees a disastrous
strike was averted and the channels of interstate commerce kept open. Surely, Congress's power over interstate commerce, which has been so many times declared
to be supreme, is, in the face of an interference greater
than -any other that can be imagined, ample enough to
authorize the assumption of "direct supervision, control,
or management" over the wage relation of persons engaged in such commerce. McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228
U. S. 115, 128.
The law does not conflict with any of the limitations
upon the power of Congress prescribed in the Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

243 U. S.

tion. It does not deprive the carriers of liberty of contract nor take property without due process of law. If
Congress has power to regulate the hours of labor and the
wage relation of persons engaged in interstate commerce,
the fact that some contracts are interfered with is immaterial and not forbidden by the Fifth Amendment. The same
principle holds with reference to the taking of property
without due process of law. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Ry. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 593;
Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Greenleaf
Johnson Lumber Co. v. Garrison,237 U. S. 251.
The classifications made in the act are not arbitrary.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221 U. S. 612; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
Conley, 230 U. S. 513, 522; St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 240.U. S. 518.
The act is workable. The penalties are not excessive.
Mr. Walker D. Hines and Mr. John G. Johnson, with
whom Mr. Arthur Miller was on the briefs, for appellees:
The act is a direct attempt to regulate the method of
computing compensation and to fix the amount thereof.
No support for its constitutionality can be derived from
any theory that it establishes a public policy that hours
of train service should be shortened, and has a direct
tendency to promote that policy.
In order to hold that the act is within the commerce
power it will be necessary for the court to see that the provisions have a substantial relation to some purpose which
is within that power, Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161,
178; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 49;
determining the purpose from the natural and legal effect
of the language, Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, 710;
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 64; Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 319. Furthermore, whatever the purpose, no provision can be upheld under the commerce

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

)

power which violates the Fifth Amendment. Lottery
Case, 188 U. S. 321, 362; Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
Umted States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United States v. Joint
Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 305, 571. Manifestly Congress has no wider choice of means to accomplish a constitutional purpose than any state legislature would have,
for both would be subject to constitutional limitations.
Section 3 of the act, even if susceptible of the construction assumed by its advocates, is unconstitutional because
it is not a regulation of commerce among the States and
violates the Fifth Amendment. The standard of compensation and the amount of compensation are mere incidents
of commerce not per se within the power of Congress.
Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648. The Second Employers' Liability Case, 223 U. S. 1, is not authority for the
position that Congress has power to regulate the masterand-servant relationship per se in all its aspects between
railroad companies and their trainmen; the power was
there based on the substantial tendency to make transportation safe. A regulation of the amount of compensation which the railroad company shall pay its employee
for his services can have no more relationship to any
purpose to regulate commerce among the States than a
regulation as to the price the railroad company shall pay
for its locomotives, rails, cross ties or fuel or'other supplies.
Section 3 is an extreme interference with the liberty of
contract. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589;
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, 172. Wages, which
Congress assumes to determine, are the very heart of the
contract between the employer and employee. On. its
face § 3 is for the direct pecuniary benefit of a particular
class of a community, to wit, the persons who are actually
engaged in the operation of railroad trains. Colon v.
Lisk, 153 N. Y. 188; Lawton v. Steel, 152 U. S. 133. It is a
direct taking of the carrier's property without compensation and the transfer of the same to private individuals.

338

OCTOBER TERM,, 1916.
Argument for Appellees..

243 U. S.

Section 3 cannot be upheld on the ground that its object was to avert the strike, that it has a substantial rela,tion to that 'object, 'and that the interference -with the
liberty of contract and the appropriation of property without compensation -to the benefit of the employees are
under such-circumstances permissible. The act does not
purport to avoid, the strike, and that end could not be
appropriately accomplished by destroying the liberty of
contract of the common carrier, or taking its property
and giving it to another -without provision for compensating-the carrier. No case can be found where the property
of one was transferred to another merely to appease that
other and prevent him from committing an injury or doing
harm to the community; and that is what §3 would accomplish if it were to be justified on the ground that it
was passed to avert the strike. The principle of necessity
permitting, of the destruction of buildings where absolutely
necessary to stay conflagration, is not analogous. Freund
on Police Power, pp. 563, 565.
The jower of Congress is not enlarged by emergency.
If it were, Congress could enlarge its powers at will by
simply postponing its dealing with a matter until it had
reached a dangerous. crisis. Another answer is that Congress and not the courts would in practice be the judge
as to When the crisis existed; so that if such a power be.
conceded constitutional limitations will cease to have a
meaning. Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2.
• Congress cannot regulate commerce among the States
by entering into an extra-constitutional arrangement with
the labor unions to avoid a strike,-and then, as a consideration to the labor unions for carrying out this arrange-.
ment, enact legislation which is not in itself a prevention
of the strike and which has no legal relation to that end.
Section 3 cannot be sustained on the ground that Congress has the power to provide methods for settling controversies between railroad companies and their train-

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

service -employees and that § 3 is an appropriate means
of settlement; nor upon the theory that its object is to
prevent unsafe or inefficient railroad operation as a result
of wages which are too low, that Congress has the power
to accomplish that object through raising wages, and that
§ 3 is an appropriate means to accomplish that object.
It cannot be upheld by analogy to the rate-making
power. It does not purport to protect the public or interstate commerce against improper-wages. On the contrary,
it requires a heavy increase in existing wages. Legislation
respecting the amount of wages to be in any sense analogous to rate-fixing legislation would have to be binding on
the person who makes the charge, i. e., the employee. But
§ 3 is binding only on the person who has to pay the charge,
i. e., the employer. It cannot be upheld on any theory of
a power in Congress to control railroad expenses so as to
promote reasonable rates; nor on the ground that hereafter
the railroad companies may be reimbursed through inm
creased rates or otherwise for the deprivation of their
property and its appropriation to the private use of the
employees. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul R. R. Co. v.
Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491.
Section 3 is void for its failure to define a standard of
conduct. That a statute must itself prescribe or designate the standard by which the parties affected" can govern their conduct, to the end that they may avoid incurring the penalties prescribed, is recognized in Chicago,
Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 U. S. 165; InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216; United
States v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 242 U. S. 208.
The entire act is unconstitutional on account of the invalidity of § 3. Section 1 is unconstitutional per se. It
is an arbitrary interference with reasonable methods of
contracting and has no substantial relation to the promotion of commerce among the States. It is unconstitutional
because it provides no standard of conduct. Chicago,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Milwaukee & St. PaulRy. Co. v. Polt, supra; International
Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, siupra; United States v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., supra; United States v. Northern Pacific
Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 190.
The act arbitrarily discriminates in not applying to
employees not engaged in operating trains, or to street
and interurban railroads and other roads not 100 miles
long. It is void on account of the excessive penalties.
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 231
U. S. 112; Bonnett v. Vallier, 136 Wisconsin, 193; Wadley
Southern Railway Co. v. Georgia, 235 U. S. 651, 655.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Was there power in Congress under the circumstances
existing to deal with the hours of work and wages of railroad employees engaged in interstate commerce, is the
principal question here to be considered. Its solution as
well as that of other questions which also arise will be
clarified by a brief statement of the conditions out of
which the controversy arose.
Two systems controlled in March, 1916, concerning
wages of railroad employees; one, an eight-hour standard
of work and wages with additional pay for overtime,
governing on about fifteen per cent. of the railroads; the
other, a stated mileage task of 100 miles to be performed
during ten hours with extra pay for any excess, in force
on about eighty-five per cent. of the roads. The organizations representing the employees of the railroads in that
month made a formal demand on the employers that as
to all engaged in the movement of trains except passenger
trains the 100-mile task be fixed for eight hours, provided
that it was not so done as to lower wages and provided
that an extra allowance for overtime calculated by the
minute at one and one-half times the rate of the regular

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hours service be established. The demand made this
standard obligatory on the railroads but optional on the
employees, as it left the right to the employees to retain
their existing system on any particular road if they elected
to do so. The terms of the demand were as follows, except
the one which reserved the option which is in the margin, 1
and others making Article 1 applicable to yard and switchifig and hostling service.
"Article l'(a) In all road service 100 miles or less, eight
hours or less will constitute a day, except in passenger service. Miles in excess of 100 will be paid for at the same
rate per mile.
"(b) On runs of 100 miles or less overtime will begin at
the expiration of eight hours.
"(c) On runs of over 100 miles overtime will begin
when the time on duty exceeds the miles run divided by
12Y/2 miles per hour.
"(d) All overtime to be computed on the minute basis
and paid for at time and one-half times the pro rata rate.
"(e) No one shall receive less for eight hours or 100
miles than they now receive for a minimum day or 100
miles for the class of engine used or for service performed.
"(f) Time will be computed continuously from time
required for duty until release from duty and responsibility
at end of day or run."

I "Article 4. Any rates of pay, including excess mileage or arbitrary
differentials that are higher, or any rules or conditions of employment
contained in individual schedules in effect January 1, 1916, that are
more favorable to the employees, shall not be modified or affected
by any settlement reached in connection with these proposals. The
general committee representing the employees on each railroad will
determine which is preferable and advise the officers of their company.
Nothing in the settlement that may be reached on the above submitted
articles is to be construed to deprive the employees on any railroad
from retaining their present rules and accepting any rates that may be
agreed upon or retaining their present rates and accepting any rides
that may be agreed upon."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

The employers refused the demand and the employees
through their organizations by concert of action took the
steps to call a general. strike of all railroad employees
throughout the whole country.
The President of the United States invited a conference
between the parties. He proposed arbitration. The employers agreed to it and the employees rejected it. The
President then suggested the eight-hour standard of
work and wages. The employers rejected this and the
employees accepted it. Before the disagreement was resolved the representatives of the employees abruptly
called a general strike throughout the whole country fixed
for an early'day. The President, stating his efforts to
relieve the situation and pointing out that no resources at
law were at his disposal for compulsory arbitration, to
save the commercial disaster, the property injury and the
personal suffering of all, not to say starvation, which
would be brought to many among the vast body of the
people if the strike was not prevented, asked Congress,
first, that the eight-hour standard of work and wages be
fixed by law, and second, that an official body be created
to observe during a reasonable time the operation of the
legislation and that an explicit assurance be given that if
the result of such observation established such an increased cost to the employers as justified an increased
rate, the power would be given to the Interstate Commerce
Commission to authorize it. Congress responded by
enacting the staeite whose validity as we have said we are
called upon to consider. Act of September 3, 5, 1016, 39
Stat. 721, c. 436. The duty to do so arises from the fact
that the employers, unwilling to accept the act and challenging the constitutional power of Congress to enact it,
began this typical suit against the officers of certain labor
unions and the United States District Attorney to enjoin
the enforcement of the statute. The law was made to take
effect only on the first of January, 1917. To expedite the

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

final decision before that date, the representatives of the
labor uniors were dropped out, agreements essential to
hasten were made and it was stipulated that pending the
final disposition of the cause the carriers would keep
accounts of the wages which would have been earned if
the, statute was enforced so as to enable their payment
if the law was finally upheld. Stating its desire to co, perate with the parties in their purpose to expedite the c use,
the court below, briefly announcing that it was of opi aion
that Congress had no constitutional power to enact the
statute, enjoined its enforcement and as the result of the
direct appeal which followed we come, after elaborate oral
and printed arguments, to dispose of the controversy.
All the propositions relied upon and arguments advanced ultimately come to two questions: First, the entire
want of constitutional power to deal with the subjects
embraced by the statute, and second, such abuse of the
power if possessed as rendered its exercise unconstitutional.
We will consider these subjects under distinct propositions
separately.
I. The entire want of constitutional power to deal with the
subjects embraced by the statute.
To dispose of the contentions under this heading calls
at once for a consideration of the statute and we reproduce
its title and text so far as is material.
"An Act To establish an eight-hour. day for employees
of carriers engaged in interstate and foreign commerce,
and for other purposes.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
beginning January first, nineteen hundred and seventeen,
eight hours shall, in contracts for labor and service, be
deemed a day's work and the measure or standard of a
day's work for the purpose of reckoning the compensation
for services of all employees who are now or may hereafter
be employed by any common carrier by railroad, except

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

railroads independently owned and operated not exceeding
one hundred miles in length, electric street railroads, and
electric interurban railroads, which is subject to the provisions of the Act of February fourth, eighteen hundred
and eighty-seven, entitled 'An Act to regulate commerce,'
as amended, and who are now or may hereafter be actually
engaged in any capacity in the operation of trains used
for the transportation of persons or property on railroads,
except railroads independently owned and operated not
exceeding one hundred miles in length, electric street railroads, and electric interurban railroads,
"Sec. 2. That'the President shall appoint a commission
of three, which shall observe the operation and effects of
the institution of the eight-hour standard workday as
above defined and the facts and conditions affecting the
relations between such common carriers and employees
during a period of not less than six months nor more than
nine months, in the discretion of the commission, and
within thirty days thereafter such commission shall report
its findings to the President and Congress; ,
"Sec. 3. That pending the report of the commission
herein provided for and for a period of thirty days thereafter the compensation of railway employees subject to
this Act for a standard eight-hour workday shall not be
reduced below the present standard day's wage, and for all
necessary time in excess of eight hours such employees
shall be paid at a rate not less than the pro rata rate for
such standard eight-hour workday.
"Sec. 4. That any person violating any provision of this
Act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $1,000,
or imprisoned not to exceed one year, or both."
There must be knowledge of the power exerted before
determining whether as exercised it was constitutional
and we must hence settle a dispute on that question before going .further. Only an eight-hour standard for work

WILSON v., NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and wages was provided, is the contention on the one side,
and in substance only a scale of wages was provided, is
the argument on the other. We are of the opinion that
both are right and in a sense both wrong in so far as it is
assumed that the one excludes the other. The provision
of section one that" eight hours shall .
.
be deemed
a day's work and the measure or standard of a day's
work," leaves no doubt about the first proposition. As to
the second, this is equally true because of the provision
of section three forbidding any lowering of wages as a
result of applying the eight-hcur standard established by
section one during the limited period prescribed in section
two. Both provisions are equally mandatory. If it be
said that the second, the depriving of all power to change
the wages during the fixed period, is but ancillary to the
first command, the standard of eight hours, that would
not make the prohibition as to any change of wages any
the less a fixing of wages. It certainly would not change
the question of power unless it could be assumed that the
legislative power to fix one thing the standard of hours,
could be enforced by exerting the power to do another,
fix the wages, although there was no legislative authority
to exert the latter power. The doing of one thing which is
authorized cannot be made the source of an authority
to do another thing which there is no power to do. If to
deprive employer and employee of the right to contract
for wages and to provide that a particular rate of wages
shall be paid for a specified time is not a fixing of wages,
it is difficult to see what would be.
However, there is this very broad difference between the
two powers exerted. The first, the eight-hour standard,
is permanently fixed. The second, the fixing of the wage
standard resulting from the prohibition against paying
lower wages, is expressly limited to the time specified
in section two. It is, therefore, not permanent but temporary, leaving the employers and employees free as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 LT.S.

the subject of wages to govern their relations by their own
agreements after the specified time. Concretely stated,
therefore, the question is this: Did Congress .have power
under the circumstances stated, that is, in dealing with the
dispute between the employers and employees as to wages,
to provide a permanent eight-hour standard and to create
by legislative action a standard of wages to be operative
upon the employers and employees for such reasonable time
as it deemed necessary to afford an opportunity for the
meeting of the minds of employers and employees on the
subject of wages? Or, in other words, did it have the power
in order to prevent the interruption of interstate commerce
to exert its will to supply the absence of a wage scale
resulting from the disagreement as to wages between the
employers and employees and to make its will on that subject controlling for the limited period provided for?
Coming to the general considerations by which both
subjects must be controlled, to simplify the analysis for
the purpose of considering the question of inherent power,
we put the question as to the eight-hour standard entirely
out of view on the ground that the authority to permanently establish it is so clearly sustained as to render the
subject not disputable.'
That common carriers by rail in interstate commerce
are within the legislative power of Congress to regulate
commerce is not subject to dispute. 2 It is equally certain
that where a particular subject is within such authority
the extent of regulation depends on the nature and character of the subject and what is appropriate to its regulation.' The powers possessed by government to deal with
1 Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221
U. S. 612; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S.
112.
United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366.
3
McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316,421-423; InterstateCommerce
Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447,472; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321;
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311.

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a subject are neither inordinately enlarged or greatly
dwarfed because the power to regulate interstate commerce
applies. This is illustrated by the difference between the
much greater power of regulation which may be exerted
as to liquor and that which may be exercised as to flour,
dry-goods and other commodities. It is shown by the
settled doctrine sustaining the right by regulation absolutely to prohibit lottery tickets and by the obvious consideration that such right to prohibit could not be applied
to pig iron, steel rails, or most of the vast body of commodities.
What was the extent of the power therefore of Congress
to regulate considering the scope of regulation which government had the right to exert with reference to interstate
commerce carriers when it came to exercise its legislative
authority to regulate commerce? is the matter to be
decided. That the business of common carriers by rail
is in a sense a public business because of the interest of
society in the continued operation and rightful conduct of
such business and that the public interest begets a public
right of regulation to the full extent necessary to secure
and protect it, is settled by o many decisions, state and
federal, and is illustrated by such a continuous exertion
of state and federal legislative power as to leave no room
for question on the subject. It is also equally true that as
the right to fix by agreement between the carrier and its
employees a standard of wages to control their relations
is primarily private, the establishment and giving effect
to such agreed on standard is not subject to be controlled
or prevented by public authority. But taking all these
propositions as undoubted, if the situation which we have
described and with which the act of Congress dealt be
taken into view, that is, the dispute between the employers
and employees as to a standard of wages, their failure to
agree, the resulting absence of such standard, the entire
interruption of interstate commerce which was threatened,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

and the infinite injury to the public interest which was
imminent, it would seem inevitably to result that the power
to regulate necessarily obtained and was subject to be
applied to the extent necessary to provide a remedy for
the situation, which included the power to deal with the
dispute, to provide by appropriate action for a standard
of wages to fill the want of one caused by the failure to
exert the private right on the subject and to give effect
by appropriate legislation to the regulations thus adopted.
This must be unless it can be said that the right to so
regulate as to save. and protect the public interest did not
appl" to a case where the destruction of the public right
was imminent as the result of a dispute between the parties and their consequent failure to establish by private
agreement the standard of wages which was essential;
in other words that the existence of the public right and'
the public power to preserve it was wholly under the control of the private right to establish a standard by agreement. Nor is it an answer to this view to suggest that the
situation was one of emergency and that emergency cannot be made the source. of power. Ex parte Milligan, 4
Wall. 2. The proposition begs the question, since although an emergency may not call into life a power which
has never lived, nevertheless emergency may afford a
reason for the exertion of a living power already enjoyed.
If acts which, if done, would interrupt, if not destroy,
interstate commerce may be by anticipation legislatively
prevented, by the same token the power to regulate may
be exercised to guard against the cessation of interstate
commerce threatened by a failure of employers and employees to agree as to the standard of wages, such standard
being an essential prerequisite to the uninterrupted flow
of interstate commerce.
But passing this, let us come to briefly recapitulate some
of the more important of the regulations which have been
enacted in the past in order to show how necessarily the

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

exertion of the power to enact them manifests the existence of the.legislative authority to ordain the regulation
now before us, and how completely the whole system of
regulations adopted in the past would be frustrated or
rendered unavailing if the power to regulate under the
conditions stated which was exerted by the act before us
was not possessed. That regulation gives the authority
to fix for interstate carriage a reasonable rate subject to
the limitation that rights of private property may not be
destroyed by establishing them on a confiscatory basis,
is settled by long practice and decisions. 1 That the power
to regulate also extends to many phases of the business
of carriage and embraces the right to control the contract
power of the carrier in so far as the public inter(,st requires such limitation, has also been manifested !y repeated acts of legislation as to bills of lading, tariffs and
many other things too numerous to mention.2 Equally
certain is it that the power has been exercised so as to deal
not only with the carrier, but with its servants and to
regulate the relation of such servants not only with their
employers, but between themselves.' Illustrations of the
latter are afforded by the Hours of Service Act, the Safety
Appliance Act and the Employers' Liability Act. Clear
1 Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155, 161;
Stone v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Chicago, Rock Island. & Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352.
2New York, New Haven & HartfordR. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 200 U. S. 361; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside
Mills, 219 U. S. 186; Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Co., 204 U. S. 426; Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491;
Boston & Maine-Railroadv. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97.
3 Johnson v. Southern Pacific Company, 196 U. S. 1; Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Inerstate Commerce Commission, 221 U. S. 612; Southern Railway Co. v.
United States,- 222 U. S. 20; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223

.U.S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

also is it that an obligation rests upon a carrier to carry
on its business and that conditions of cost or other obstacles afford no excuse and exempt from no responsibility
which arises from a failure to do so and also that government possesses the full regulatory power to compel performance of such duty.i
In the presence of this vast body of acknowledged
powers there would seem to be no ground for disputing
the power which was exercised in, the act which is before
us so as to prescribe by law for the absence of a standard
of wages caused by the failure to exercise the private right
as a result ot the dispute between the parties, that is, to
exert the legislative will for the purpose of settling the
dispute and bind both parties to the duty of acceptance
and compliance to the end that no individual dispute or
difference might bring ruin to the vast interests concerned
in the movement of interstate commerce, for the express
purpose of protecting and preserving which the plenary
legislative authority granted to Congress was reposed.
This result 'is further demonstrated, as we have suggested,
by considering how bompletely the purpose intended to be
accomplished by the regulations which have been adopted
in the past would be rendered unavailing or their enactment inexplicable if the power. was not possessed to meet
a situation like the one with which the statute dealt. What
would be the value of the right to a reasonable rate if all
movement in interstate commerce could be stopped as a
result of a mere dispute between the parties or their failure
to exert a primary private right concerning a matter of
interstate commerce? Again, what purpose would be
subserved by all the regulations established to secure the
enjoyment by the public of an efficient and reasonable
service, if there was no power in government to prevent
Atlantic Coast Lile R. R. Co. v. North CarolinaCorporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1, 26; Missouri Pacific Railway v. Kansas, 216 U. S.
262, 278.

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

all service from being destroyed? Further yet what benefits would flow to society by recognizing the right, because of the public interest, to regulate the relation of
employer and employee and of the employees among
themselves and to give to the latter peculiar and special
rights safeguarding their persons, protecting them in case
of accident aid giving efficient remedies for that purpose,
if there was no power to remedy a situation created by a
dispute between employers and employees as to rate of
wages, which if not remedied, would leave the public
helpless, the whole people ruined and all the homes of the
land submitted to a danger of the most serious character?,
And finally, to what derision would it not reduce the proposition that government had power to enforce the duty
of operation, if that power did not extend to doing that
which was essential to prevent operation from being completely stopped by filling the interregnum created by an
absence of a conventional standard of wages because of a
dispute on that subject between -the employers and employees by a legislative standard binding on employers and
employees for such a time as might be deemed by the
legislature reasonably adequate to enable normal conditions to come about as the result of agreements as to
wages between the parties?
We are of opinion that the reasons stated conclusively
establish that from the point of view of inherent power
the act which is before us was clearly within the legislative
power of Congress to adopt, and that in substance and
effect it amounted to an exertion of its authority under
the circumstances disclosed to compulsorily arbitrate the
dispute between the parties by establishing as to the
subject matter of that dispute a .legislative standard of
wages operative and binding as a matter of law upon the
parties,-a power none the less efficaciously exerted because exercised by direct legislative act instead of by the
enactment of other and appropriate means providing for

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the bringing about of such result. If it be conceded that
the power to enact the statute was in effect the exercise
of the right to fix wages where by reason of the dispute
there had been a failure to fix by agreement, it would
simply serve to show the nature and character of the regulation essential to protect the public right and safeguard
the movement of interstate commerce, not involving any
denial of the authority to adopt it.
And this leaves only to be generally considered whether
the right to exercise such a power under the conditions
which existed was limited or restrained by the private
rights of the carriers or their employees.
(a) As to the carrier. As engaging in the business of
interstate commerce carriage subjects the carrier to the
lawful power of Congress to regulate irrespective of the
source whence the carrier draws its existence, and as also
by engaging in a business charged with a public interest
all the vast property and every right of the carrier become
subject to the authority to regulate possessed by Congress
to the extent that regulation may be exerted considering
the subject regulated and what is appropriate and relevant thereto, it follows that the very absence of the scale
of wages by agreement and the impediment and destruction of interstate commerce which was threatened called
for the appropriate and relevant remedy, the creation of a
standard by operation of law binding upon the carrier.
(b) As to the employee. Here again it is obvious that
what we have previously said is applicable and decisive,
since whatever would be the right of an employee engaged
in a private business to demand such wages as he desires,
to leave the employment if he does not get them and by
concert of action to agree with others to leave upon the
same condition, such rights are necessarily subject to limitation when employment is accepted in a business charged
with a public interest and as to which the power to regulate commerce possessed by Congress applied and the

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

resulting right to fix in case of disagreement and dispute
a standard of wages as we have seen necessarily obtained.
In other words, considering comprehensively the situation of the employer and the employee in the light of
the obligations arising from the public interest and of the
work in which they are engaged and the degree of regulation which may be lawfully exerted by Congress as to
that business, it must follow that the exercise of the lawful
governmental right is controlling. This results from the
considerations which we have previously pointed out
and which we repeat, since conceding that from the point
of view of the private right and private interest as contradistinguished from the public interest the power exists
between the parties, the employers and employees, to
agree as to a standard of wages free from legislative interference, that right in no way affects the lawmaking power
to protect the public right and create a standard of wages
resulting from a dispute as to wages and a failure therefore
to establish by consent a standard. The capacity to
exercise the private right free from legislative interference
affords no ground for saying that legislative power does
not exist to protect the public interest from the injury
resulting from a failure to exeicise the private right. In
saying this of course it is always to be borne in mind that
as to both carrier and employee the beneficent and everpresent safeguards of the Constitution are applicable and
therefore both are protected against confiscation and
against every act of arbitrary power which if given effect
to would amount to a denial of due process or would be
repugnant to any other constitutional right. And this
emphasizes that there is no question here of purely private
right since the law is concerned only with those who are
engaged in a business charged with a public interest where
the subject dealt with as to all the parties is one involved
in that business and which we have seen comes under the
control of the right to regulate to the extent that the power

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

to do so is appropriate or relevant to the business regulated.
Having thus adversely disposed of the contentions as to
the inherent want of power, we come to consider all the
other propositions which group themselves under a common heading, that is,
II. Such an abuse of the power if possessed as rendered
its exercise unconstitutional.
We shall consider the various contentions which come
under this heading under separate subdivisions.
(a) Equal'protection of the laws and penalties.
The want of equality is based upon two considerations.
The one is the exemption of certain short line and electric
railroads. We dismiss it because it has been adversely
disposed of by many previous decisions.' The second
rests upon the charge that unlawful inequality results
because the statute deals not with all, but only with the
wages of employees engaged in the movement of trains.
But such employees were those concerning whom the dispute as to wages existed growing out of which the threat
of interruption of interstate commerce arose,-a consideration which establishes an adequate basis for the statutory classification.
As to the penalties it suffices to say that in this case a
recovery of penalties is not asked and consequently the
subject may well be postponed until it actually arises for
2
decision.
1 Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; Omaha & Council Bluffs Street Ry. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 230 U. S. 324; Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co. v. Conley, 230 U. S. 513, 522-524; St. Louis, Irm Mountain
& Southern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 240 U. S. 518.
2 United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366,417; Grenada
Lumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433, 443; Southwestern Oil Co. v.
Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 120; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Richmond,
224 U. S. 160, 172; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Conley, 230 U. S. 513,
522.

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(b) Want of due process resulting from the improvidence
with which the statute was enacted and the impossibility in
practice of giving effect to its provisions; in other words, as
stated in the argument, its "unworkability."
The contention virtually is that, conceding the legislative power under the circumstances stated to fix a standard of wages, such authority necessarily contemplates
consideration before action and not a total and obvious
disregard of every right of the employer and his propertya want of consideration and a disregard which, it is urged,
appear on the face of the statute and which cause it therefore to amount to a decision without a hearing and to a
mere arbitrary bestowal of millions by way of wages upon
employees to the injury not only of the employer but of
the public upon whom the burden must necessarily fall.
Upon the assumption that unconstitutionality would result if there be ground for the propositions,' let us test
them. In the first place, as we have seen, there is no room
for question that it was the dispute between the parties,
their failure to agree as to wages and the threatened disruption of interstate commerce caused by that dispute
which was the subject which called for the exertion of the
power to regulate commerce and which was dealt with by
the exertion of that power which followed. In the second
place, all the contentions as to want of consideration sustaining the action taken are disposed of by the history we
have given of the events out of which the controversy,
grew, the public nature of the dispute, the interposition of
the President, the call by him upon Congress for action in
conjunction with the action taken, all demonstrating not
unwitting action or a failure to consider, whatever may
be the room, if any, for a divergence of opinion as to the
want of wisdom shown by the action taken.
But to bring the subject to a closer analysis, let us briefly
'McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, 63.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

recall the situation, the conditions dealt with and the
terms of the statute. What was the demand made by the
employees? A permanent agreement as to wages by whi6h
the period should be shortened in which the fixed mileage
task previously existing should be performed, an allowance to be made of extra pay by the minute at one and onehalf times the regular pay for any overtime required to
perform the task if it was not done in the reduced time,
with a condition that no reduction in wages should occur
from putting the demands into effect and also that in that
event their operation should be binding upon the employers and optional on the employees. What was the real
dispute? The employers insisted that this largely increased the pay because the allotted task would not be
performed in the new and shorter time and a large increase
for overtime would result. The employees on the other
hand insisted that as the task would be unchanged and
would be performed in the shorter hours, there would be
no material, or at all events no inordinate, increase of pay.
What did the statute do in settling these differences? It
permanently applied an eight-hour standard for work
and wages which existed and had been in practice on about
fifteen per cent. of the railroads. It did not fix the amount
of the task to be done during those hours, thus leaving that
to the will of the parties. It yielded in part to the objections of the employers by permitting overtime only if
"necessary" and it also absolutely rejected in favor of the
employers and against the employees the demand for an
increased rate of pay during overtime if there was any and
confinel it to the regular rate and it moreover rejected
the option in favor of the employees by making the law
obligatory upon both parties. In addition, by the provision prohibiting a ,lower rate of wages under the new
system than was previously paid, it fixed the wages for
such period. But this was not a permanent fixing, but in
the nature of things a temporary one which left the will

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the employers and employees to control at the end of
the period if their dispute had then ceased.
Considering the extreme contentions relied upon in the
light of this situation we can discover no basis upon
which they may rest. It certainly is not afforded because
of the establishment of the eight-hour standard, since
that standard was existing as we have said on about fifteen
per cent. of the railroads, had already been established
by act of Congress as a basis for work on government
contracts, and had been upheld by this court in sustaining
state legislation. 1 It certainly cannot. be said that the
act took away from the parties, employers and employees,
their private right to contract on the subject of a scale
of wages since the power which the act exerted was only
exercised because of the failure of the parties to agree and
the resulting necessity for the lawmaking will to supply
the standard rendered necessary by such failure of the
parties to exercise their private right. Further, in view
of the provisions of the act narrowing and limiting the
demands made, the statute certainly affords no ground
for the proposition that it arbitrarily considered only one
side of the dispute to the absolute and total disregard of
the rights of the other, since it is impossible to state the
modifications which the statute made of the demands
without by-the very words of the statement manifesting
that there was an exertion of legislative discretion and
judgment in acting upon the dispute between the parties.
How can this demonstration fail to result if it be stated
that the scope of the task to be performed in the eighthour period was not expressed but was left therefore to
adjustment between the, parties, that overtime was
only permitted if "necessary," and that extra pay for
United States v. Martin, 94 U. S. 400; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.

366; Ellis v. United States, 206 U. S. 246; United States v. Garbish, 222
U. S. 257; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373; Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236
U. S. 385.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

overtime wAs rejected and regular rate of pay substituted?
Conceding that there would necessarily result from the
enforcement of the statute an increase of pay during the
period for which the statute forbade a reduction, such
concession would not bring the statute within the grounds
stated. The right to meet the situation caused by the
dispute and to fix a standard which should be binding
upon both parties included of course the legislative authority to take into consideration the elements of difference and in giving heed to them all to express such
legislative judgment as was deemed best under the circumstances.
From this it also follows that there is no foundation for
the proposition that arbitrary action in total disregard of
the private rights concerned was taken because the right
to change or lower the wages was left to be provided for
by agreement between the parties after a reasonable period
which the statute fixed. This must be unless it can be
said that to afford an opportunity for the exertion of the
private right of agreement as to the standard of wages
was in conflict with such right.
When it is considered that no contention is made that
in any view the enforcement of the act would result in
confiscation, the misconception upon which all the propositions proceed becomes apparent. Indeed in seeking
to test the arguments by which the propositions are sought
to be supported we are 'of opinion that it is evident that
'in substance they assert not that no legislative judgment
was exercised, but that in enacting the statute there was an
unwise exertion of legislative power begotten either from
some misconception or some mistaken economic view or
partiality for the rights of one disputant over the other
or some unstated motive which should not have been
permitted to influence action. But to state such considerations. is to state also the entire want of judicial power to

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

consider them,-a view which therefore has excluded them,
absolutely from our mind and which impels us 'as a duty
to say that we have not in the slightest degree passed upon
them. While it is a truism to say that the duty to enforce
the Constitution is paramount and abiding, it is also true
that the very highest of judicial duties is to -give effect to
the legislative will and in doing so to scrupulously abstain
from permitting subjects which are exclusively within the
field of legislative discretion to influence our opinion or to
control judgment.
Finally we say that the contention that the act was void
and could not be made operative because of the unworkability of its provisions. is without merit, since we see no
reason to doubt that if the standard fixed by the act were
made applicable and a candid effort followed to carry it
out, the result would be without difficulty accomplished.
It is true that it might follow that in some cases because
of particular terms of employment or exceptional surroundings some change might be necessary, but these exceptions
afford no ground for holding the act void because its provisions are not susceptible in practice of being carried out.
Being of the opinion that Congress had the power to
adopt the act in question, whether it be viewed as' a direct
fixing of waged to meet the absence of a standar& on that
subject resulting from the dispute between the parties
or as the exertion by Congress of the power which it undoubtedly possessed to provide by appropriate legislation for compulsory arbitration-a power which inevitably resulted from its authority to protect interstate
commerce in dealing with a situation like that which was
before it-we conclude that the court below erred in
holding the statute was not within the power of Congress
to enact and in restraining its enforcement and its decree
therefore must be and it is reversed and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.
And it is so ordered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
MCKENNA,

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

J., concurring.

243 U. S.

concurring.

It is the contention of the Government that the act is an
hours-of-service law, the intent of Congress being by its
enactment "to proclaim a substantial eight-hour day."
The opposing contention is that "the language of the
act shows that it deals solely with the construction of
contracts and with the standard and amount of compensation, and not with any limitation upon the hours of labor."
Upon these opposing contentions the parties respectively
assert and deny the power of Congress to enact the law.
The Government, however, further contends that, even
viewing the law as a wage law, Congress under the commerce clause had power to pass it.
My purpose is to deal with the meaning of the act. With
the consideration of the power to pass it I am satisfied
with the opinion.
The title of the act (and to the title of an act we may
resort to resolve ambiguity or to confirm its words) expresses its purpose to be "to establish an eight-hour day
for employees of carriers engaged in interstate and foreign
commerce, and for other purposes."
The description of the title was repeated in the House of
Representatives by the chairman of the committee who
reported the bill and from whom it has received its designation. Among other things, he said: "The law fixes an
eight-hour day. We had previously a sixteen-hour day
and a nine-hour day. We now have an eight-hour day.
The only reference to wages is in the language used to hold
in statu quo until the workings of the eight-hour law could
be observed and all other features of the service adjusted
to the eight-hour law." Explanations of like import were
made in the Senate.
The words of the act, I think, support this characterization and it may be assumed were accepted by Congress
as expressing and securing it; and I think they do so with

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

McKENNA, J., concurring.

fair directness. Whatever involution there may be in
them was caused by the situation to which they were addressed, derangement of which was sought to be avoided,
the situation indeed made use of, "features of the service

adjusted" to the law.
The provision of §1 is: "That, beginning January
first, nineteen hundred and seventeen, eight hours shall,
in contracts for labor and service, be deemed a day's
work and the measure or standard of a day's work for
the purpose of reckoning the compensation for services
of all employees who are now or may hereafter be employed
by any common carrier by railroad, except

"

Nothing is fixed but the time of service-the hours
which shall be deemed a day's work-the number to be
eight. All else-compensation and conditions-is left
to contract; only, whatever the compensation, it shall be
for a service of eight hours reckoned (computed) or measured by such time as its determining factor. :Uxcept as so
determined the compensation may be whatever the carriers and employees may agree upon. Their power of convention has no other limitation.
The distinction between what is left to the parties and
what is fixed by the law is real. There is certainly a
difference between the prescription of the time of service
and the prescription of compensation for the service, and
the difference is observed in the speech and conduct of
men; it is observed in the regulations of legislation. It
has never been supposed that the agitation for an eighthour day for labor or the legislation which has responded
to it, was intended to fix or did fix the rate of wages to be
paid.
Of course, in a sense, the two things are related. The
time of service and the price of service may be said to be
the reciprocals of each other-each the price of the other.
There can be no real estimate of the wages one receives
until it is understood what time one has worked to receive

OCTOBER TERM, 1016.
MCKENNA,

J., concurring.

243 U. S.

them. They rise and fall with the increase or decrease
of the time of Service. One who works ten hours a day for
$5.00 may be said to get less than one who works eight
hours for the same sum. The labor of the latter is of
greater value to him than the labor of the ten-hour man
is to him. And, correspondingly, the expense to the employer is greater in the one case than in the other, though
the wages he pays, expressed in terms of money, are the
same. It may be contended that there is no element,
therefore, in the regulation of the price of labor that there
is not in the regulation of the hours of labor. But, as I
have said, in the practice of men and in the examples of
legislation, regulation of one is not regarded as the regulation of the other. In certain hazardous employments
the hours of labor have been prescribed. It has not been
supposed, certainly not declared, that the power as exerted was the regulation of wages. The interest of the
State has been assumed to terminate with the hours of
service, and its compensation, therefore, has been left
to the agreement of the parties.
As examples of legislation I may adduce Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, where a state law was sustained,
and Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 221 U. S. 612, where a law of Congress was
sustained. Both laws limited the hours of service, but
neither the rate of wages. There may be also cited Ellis
v. United States, 206 U. S. 246; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S.
412; Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236 U. S. 385; Miller v. Wilson,
236 U. S.373.
It may be contended that the power that can limit the
hours of service can fix the wages for the service. To this
I shall presently refer. My immediate purpose is the
interpretation of the law under review; and I have only
to point out that it is the sense of the practical world that
prescribing the hours of labor is not prescribing the wages
of labor, and Congress has kept the purposes distinct.

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

MCKENNA, J., concurring.

I do not think that other provisions of the act militate
against these views. Section 2 provides for the appointment of a commission to observe the operation of the law,
and this for the reason I have expressed of the dependence
of the cost of the services upon the time they are rendered.
The shorter hours may or may not involve an increase of
expense to the roads and may or may not require recompense by an increase of their rates.
Pending the report of the commission and for thirty
days thereafter it is provided (§3) that compensation
shall not be reduced below the present standard day's
wage, and for all necessary time in excess of eight hours
employees shall be paid at a rate not less than the pro
rata rate for such standard eight-hour work day.
In a sense, this may be considered as a prescription of
wages. To those roads (85%) that have a ten-hour standard the provision, so far as applicable, may be said to be
a change of compensation. To those (15%) having an
eight-hour standard it is not a change. The effort of the
law is to secure an eight-hour day service and the "penalty
of payment for overtime service," to quote the Government's brief, "is imposed in order to enforce obedience
to the eight-hour provision, as far as practicable."
But even if § 3 be given a broader effect it would not
give character to the whole act and make it the exertion
of power to establish permanently a rate of wages. To
so consider it would, I think, be contrary to the intention
of Congress and convert the expediency for a particular
occasion and condition into the rule for all occasions and
conditions.
So far as the fate of the pending appeal is concerned, it
is not of much importance whether the act be held to be
an hours-of-service law or a wage-regulating law; but one
may be regarded as having consequences that the other
has not. To a carrier a wage law is but an item in its
accounts, and requiring, it may be, an adjustment of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
DAY,

J., dissenting.

243 U. S.

operations, the expense to be recompensed through its
rates. If it be said that rates cannot be changed at will
but only by permission of authority, I cannot think that
permission will not be given if it be necessary to fulfill the
command of the law. Indeed, if not given, the law might
encounter constitutional restriction.
To an employee a wage law may be of more vital consequence, be of the very essence of his life, involving factors-many and various-which he alone can know and
estimate, and which, besides, might not have an enduring
constancy and be submissive to a precedent judgment.
There well might be hesitation to displace him and substitute
the determination of the law for his action.
I speak
only of intention; of the power I have no
doubt.
When one enters into interstate commerce one enters into
a service in which the public has an interest and subjects
one's self to its behests. And this is no limitation of liberty; it is the consequence of liberty exercised, the obligation of his undertaking, and constrains no more than any
contract constrains. The obligation of a contract is the
law under which it is made and submission to regulation
is the condition which attaches to one who enters into or
accepts employment in a business in which the public has
an interest.
I concur in the answer of the opinion to the contentions
of inequality of the law and the deprivation to the carriers
of due process.
MR. JUSTICE DAY,

dissenting.

I am unable to agree with the opinion and judgment just
pronounced. The very serious constitutional questions
involved seem to warrant a statement of the reasons which
constrain me to this action.
I am not prepared to deny to Congress, in view of its
constitutional authority to regulate commerce among the

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

DAY, J., dissenting.

States, the right to fix by lawful enactment the wages to
be paid to those engaged in such commerce in the operation of trains carrying passengers and freight. While
the railroads of the country are privately owned, they are
engaged in a public service, and because of that fact are
subject in a large measure to governmental control.
The regulatory power of Congress under the commerce
clause of the Constitution is of a broad nature, but is
subject to the applicable limitations of the Constitution.
I agree that upon the reasoning which sustained the
power of Congress to regulate the hours of service of employees, and the degree of care which employers must observe to protect the safety of those engaged in the service
and in view of the enactments which are held to be lawful regulations of interstate transportation, Congress has
the power to fix the amount of compensation necessary
to secure a proper service and to insure reasonable rates
to the public upon the part of the railroads engaged in
such traffic. While this much must necessarily follow
from the constitutional authority of Congress, in the light
of the interpretation given to the commerce clause in
decisions of this court, it is equally true that this regulatory power is subject to any applicable constitutional limitations. This power cannot, any more than others conferred by the Constitution, be the subject of lawful exercise
when such exertion of authority violates fundamental
rights secured by the Constitution. Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 196; Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United States v. Joint Traffic
Assn., 171 U. S. 505, 571; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 353.
The power to legislate, as well as other powers conferred
by the Constitution upon the co6rdinate branches of the
Government, is limited by the provisions of the Fifth
Amendment of the Constitution preventing deprivation
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law.
The phrase "Due Process of Law" has been the subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
DAY,

J., dissenting.

243 U. S.

of much discussion, and while its precise definition has not
been attempted, and its limitations have been left to the
gradual process of inclusion and exclusion, the binding
force of its requirements is always conceded, and has been
frequently enforced in cases as they have arisen. If the
Constitution is not to become a dead letter the protection
of the due process clause must be given to all entitled to
this safeguard of rights which the Amendment intended
to secure. The due process clause restrains alike every
branch of the Government, and is binding upon all who
exercise federal power, whether of an executive, legislative,
or judicial character. It withholds from the executive
the exercise of arbitrary authority, it prevents the judiciary from condemning one in his person or property without orderly methods of procedure adapted to the situation, and opportunity to be heard before judgment. We
are now immediately concerned with its effect upon the
exercise of legislative authority.
While every case must depend upon its peculiar circumstances, certain general principles are well settled;
perhaps they have not been better stated than in the words
of Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for this court in Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 531, wherein he said:
"The concessions of Magua Charta were wrung from the
King as guaranties against the oppressions and usurpations
of his prerogative.- It did not enter into the minds of the
barons to provide security against their own body or in
favor of the Commons by limiting the power of Parliament;
so that bills of attainder, ex post facto laws, laws declaring
forfeitures of estates, and other arbitrary acts of legislation which occur so frequently in English history, were
never regarded as inconsistent with the law of the
land. . . . The actual and practical security for English liberty against legislative tyranny was the power of a
free public opinion represented by the Commons. In this
country written constitutions were deemed essential to

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U: S.

DAY,

J., dissenting.

protect the rights and liberties of the people against the
encroachnients of power delegated to their governments,
and .the provisions of Magna Charta were incorporated
into Bills of Rights. They were limitations upon all the
powers of government, legislative as well as executive
and judicial. . . . Applied in England only as guards
against executive usurpation and tyranny, here they have
become also bulwarks against arbitrary legislation."
See Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land and Improvement
Co., 18 How. 272; Bank of Columbia v. Okely, 4 Wheat.
235; 2 Story on the Constitution, 4th ed., § 1944; Cooley
on the Constitution, 241 et seq.; McGehee on Due Process
of Law, p. 22 et seq., and the illuminating discussion of
the subject by Mr. Justice Moody in Twining v. New
Jersey, 211 U. S. 78.
It results from the principles which have been enforced
in this court, and recognized by writers of authority, that
due process of law, when applied to the legislative branch
of the Government, will not permit Congress to make anything due process of law which it sees fit to declare such
by the mere enactment of the statute; if this were true,
life, liberty, or property might be taken by the terms of the
legislative act, depending for its authority upon the will
or caprice of tli- legislature, and constitutional provisions
would thus become a mere nullity. See the frequently
quoted argument of Mr. Webster in the Dartmouth College
Case, 4 Wheat. 518; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.
97; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago,
166 U. S.226; McGehee on Due Process of Law, p. 30.
The underlying principle of the decisions which have
constrained this court in rare instances to exercise its
constitutional right to declare congressional enactments
void, is the protection intended to be afforded against
legislation of an arbitrary character.
While it is true, as stated in the majority opinion, that
it is the duty of courts to enforce lawful legislative enact-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
DAxY, J., dissenting.

243 U. S.

ments of Congress, it is equally their duty and sworn
obligation when differences between acts of the legislature
and the guaranties of the Federal Constitution arise, to
govern their decisions by the provisions of that instrument which represents the will of all the people, and under
the authority of which every branch of the Government
is enabled to discharge the duty imposed upon it.
The act in question must be brought to the test of these
fundamental principles, and if found to be violative of the
Federal Constitution it must be declared void. Grave and
important as the duty is it cannot be avoided consistently
with the obligations imposed by the Constitution upon
every branch of the judiciary, federal and state, and particularly upon this court, to which under our system is
entrusted the ultimate decision of questions of this nature.
Applying these principles, in my opinion this act cannot successfully withstand the attack that is made upon
it as an arbitrary and unlawful exertion of supposed legislative power. It is not an act limiting the hours of service.
Nor is it, in my judgment, a legitimate enactment fixing
the wages of employees engaged in such service. In one
of its most important aspects, and in view of the mandatory provisions of § 3 of the act, it is one the effect of which
is to increase the wages of certain employees in interstate
commerce by the requirement that pending investigation,
the wages which have theretofore been paid for ten hours'
service shall be given for eight hours' service of the same
character. The increase of wages is to be in force only
during the period of observation provided in the act. Before the passage of this enactment the wages of the character involved herein had been fixed by agreement, or
determined by arbitration between the parties concerned.
By this enactment the wage theretofore paid for a tenhours' service is required to be paid for an eight-hours'
service pending the investigation provided for in other
parts of the law, In other words, Congress upon the face

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

DAY,

J., dissenting.

of the enactment expresses its inability to fix in advance
of investigation a just and proper wage for the employees
concerned. It inevitably follows that the cost of the
experiment, measured by the increase in wages amounting,
it is stated, to many millions of dollars, and certain to
cost a very large sum, must be paid, not by the public,
nor be equally borne by the contracting parties, but by
legislative edict is made to fall entirely upon one of the
parties, with no provision for compensation should the
subsequent investigation establish the injustice or impropriety of the temporary increase.
An examination of the history of the legislation, and
public documents submitted for our consideration, amply
support this conclusion. In submitting the matter to
Congress the President recommended: "Explicit approval
by the Congress of the consideration by the Interstate
Commerce Commission of an increase of freight rates to
meet such additional expenditures by the railroads as
may have been rendered necessary by the adoption of the
eight-hour day and which have not been offset by administrative readjustments and economies, should the facts
disclosed justify the increase."
This recommendation was not followed in the enactment of the statute. The Senate Committee having the
subject under consideration expressed a desire for investigation and consideration before enacting a law of this
character. Such was not had, and the law in its present
form was speedily passed.
In fixing wages, conceding the power of Congress for
this purpose, that body acts having in mind the rights of
the public, of the owners of railroads, and of the employees
engaged in their service. Inherently, such legislation requires that investigation and deliberation shall precede
action. In fixing rates Congress has itself recognized this
principle and has delegated its power to a Commission
which acts only upon full investigation, and an oppor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
DAY,

J., dissenting.

243 U. S.

tunity to be heard, wherein the interest of the public, the
carrier, and the shipper may be given ample consideration.
Conceding that every presumption exists in favor of
the legitimate exercise of legislative power, and that there
is no authority in the courts to inquire into the motives
which may have influenced legislators, and that every
such enactment presupposes the possession of proper motives and sufficient information and knowledge to warrant
the action taken, nevertheless Congress has in this act
itself declared the lack of the requisite information for
definite action, and has directed an experiment to determine what it should do, imposing in the meantime an
increase of wages peremptorily declared, the expense of
which is to be borne entirely by the carrier, without recompense if the investigation proves the injustice or impropriety of the increase.
Such legislation, it seems to me, amounts to the taking
of the property of one and giving it to another in violation of the spirit of fair play and equal right which the
Constitution intended to secure in the due process clause
to all coming within its protection, and is a striking illustration of that method which has always been deemed
to be the plainest illustration of arbitrary action, the
taking of the property of A and giving it to B by legislative fiat. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104.
It may be taken to be true, as stated in the majority
opinion, that but for this legislation a strike of employees
engaged in interstate commerce would have been precipitated, disastrous in its consequences to the commerce
of the country.
If I am right in the conclusion that this legislation
amounted to a deprivation of property without due process
of law, no emergency and nio consequence, whatever their
character, could justify the violation of constitutional
rights. The argument of justification by emergency was
made and answered in this court in Ex parte Milligan,

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

DAY, J., dissenting.

4 Wall. 2, decided more than fifty years ago, in which it
was held that not even the perils of war could impair
the right of a resident of a loyal State, not connected with
the military service, and where the courts were open, and
in the proper exercise of their jurisdiction, to be tried,
convicted, or sentenced only by the ordinary courts of
law, with trial by jury -and with the safeguards intended
to secure a fair trial in the courts of law. Speaking of
the purposes which controlled in the adoption of the
Federal Constitution, and animated those who framed
that instrument this court said, p. 120: "Those great
and good men foresaw that troublous times would arise,
when rulers and people would become restive under restraint, and seek by sharp and decisive measures to accomplish ends deemed just and proper; and that the
principles of constitutional liberty would be in peril,
unless established by irrepealable law. The history of the
world had taught them that what was done in the past
might be attempted in the future. The Constitution of
the United States is a law for rulers and people, equally
in war and in peace, and covers with the shield of its protection all classes of men, at all times, and under all circumstances. No doctrine, involving more pernicious consequences, was ever invented by the wit of man than that
any of its provisions can be suspended during any of the
great exigencies of government. Such a doctrine leads
directly to anarchy or despotism, but the theory of necessity on which it is based is false; for the government,
within the Constitution, has all the powers granted to it,
which are necessary to preserve its existence; as has been
happily proved by the result of the great effort to throw
off its just authority."
This principle is equally applicable to-day. Constitutional protection is more essential in times of unrest and
agitation than it can be in the security of less turbulent
periods. The Constitution intended to protect the citizen

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
DAY,

J., dissenting.

243 U. S.

against encroachments upon his rights impelled by existing
emergencies, or supposed necessity of prompt and vigorous
action. Constitutional rights, if they are to be available
in time of greatest need, cannot give way to an emergency,
however immediate, or justify the sacrifice of private
rights secured by the Constitution.
I agree that a situation, such as was presented to Congress at this time, properly called for the exertion of its
proper authority to avert impending calamity. I cannot
agree that constitutional rights may be sacrificed because
of public necessity, nor taken away because of emergencies which might result in disaster or inconvenience to
public or private interests. If this be not so, the constitutional limitations for the protection of life, liberty, and
property, are of little value, and may be taken away whenever it is supposed that the public interests will be promoted by the sacrifice of rights which the framers of the
Constitution intended should be forever protected from
governmental invasion by any branch of the Government.
There are certain matters in the opinion of the majority
which I am unable to approve by silent acquiescence. I
am not prepared to admit that Congress may when deemed
necessary for the public interest coerce employees against
their will to continue in service in interstate commerce.
Nor do I think it necessary to decide, as declared in the
majority opinion, that in matters of this kind Congress
can enact a compulsory arbitration law. These questions
are not involved in this case and their decision need not
be anticipated until they actually arise.
The reasons, which I have outlined, impel me to the
conclusion that the enactment under consideration necessarily deprives the complaining railroad companies of
rights secured to them, as well as to others, by one of the
most essential of the protections guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. In this- view I am constrained to dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case.

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

PITNEY and

VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, dissenting.

I am constrained to dissent from the decision just announced and from the reasoning upon which it is based.
I am convinced that the statute under consideration (Act
of September 3, 5, 1916, c. 436, 39 Stat. 721) is not within
the constitutional power of Congress. The infirmity that
I find in it is so fundamental that, for the sake of brevity,
I lay aside all minor grounds upon which it is attacked,
and hence may begin by setting forth the title and essential provisions of the act, so as to render plain its true
effect and operation, omitting portions not necessary to a
consideration Of the main questions. I quote as follows:
"An Act To establish an eight-hour day for employees
of carriers engaged in interstate and foreign commerce,
and for other purposes.
"Be it enacted . . . That beginning January first,
nineteen hundred and seventeen, eight hours shall, in
contracts for labor and service, be deemed a day's work
and the measure or standard of a day's work for the purpose of reckoning the compensation for services of all
employees who are now or may hereafter be employed
by any common carrier by railroad,

.

.

.

which is

subject to the provisions of the Act of February fourth,
eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, entitled 'An Act to
regulate commerce,' as amended, and who are now or
may hereafter be actually engaged in any capacity in the
operation of trains used for the transportation of persons
or property on railroads, . . . from any State or
Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia
to any other State or Territory of the United States or
the District of Columbia," etc.
"Sec. 2. That the President shall appoint a commission of three, which shall observe the operation and effects
of the institution of the eight-hour standard workday as
above defined and the facts and conditions affecting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

relations between such common carriers and employees
during a period of not less than six months nor more than
nine months, in the discretion 'of the commission, and
within thirty days thereafter such commission shall report its findings to the President and Congress;
"Sec. 3. That pending the report of the commission
herein provided for and for a period of thirty days thereafter the compensation of railway employees subject to
this Act for a standard eight-hour workday shall not be
reduced below the present standard day's wage, and for
all necessary time in excess of eight hours such employees
shall be paid at a rate not less than the pro rata rate for
such standard eight-hour workday.
"Sec. 4. That any person violating any provision of this
Act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor," etc.
It is, I think, too plain for argument that the act departs from its title, in that it does not establish eight
hours as the limit' of a day's work. There is no prohibition of service in excess of eight hours per day, nor any
penalty for overtime work, for this is to be paid for only
pro rata. There is no language evincing an intent to repeal
or modify the Sixteen Hour Act of March 4, 1907, c. 2939,
34 Stat. 1415. It is a matter of common knowledge that
railroad train service must be arranged according to the
distances between terminals or "division points," and a
change from a sixteen-hour limit to an eight-hour limit
would be so revolutionary that a purpose to make such a
change is not to be lightly inferred. This act affords no
basis for such an inference. What it prescribes is that
"eight hours shall, in contracts for labor and service, be
deemed a day's work and the measure or standard of a
day's work for the purpose of reckoning the compensation
for services." It defines the terms of contracts for service
and prescribes a measure only for the purpose of reckoning
compensation. This is the whole effect of the first section.
To shorten the discussion, I will concede, arguendo, that

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

PITNEY and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

this section of itself is not in conflict with the Constitution. This. being assumed, the second section evidently
is unexceptionable.
Serious difficulty appears, however, when we come to
consider the operation and effect of'the third section in
connection with the first and second. It provides that,
pending the report of the commission, and for thirty days
thereafter, "the compensation of railway employees subject to this Act for a standard eight-hour workday shall
not be reduced below the present standard day's wage,"
etc. This, of course, is to be practically enforced by means
of prosecutions under § 4. The "present standard day's
wage," in effect upon the railroad represented by appellees
in this case and upon most of the other railroads of the
country, is a term not easily defined. Accepting the paraphrase employed in the brief for the United States, the
standard may be expressed as follows: cOne hundred
miles or less, ten hours or less, shall constitute a day."
The effect of § 3 is that during a period of from seven to
eleven months the carriers shall pay as much for eight
hours' work as previously was paid for ten hours' work; the
excess over eight hours to be paid for pro rata on the eighthour basis. The effect is to increase wages in a large but
undefined amount'upon the railroad represented in this
suit, and in the amount of many millions of dollars considering all the railroads that are affected.
The legislation is attempted to be sustained solely as an
exercise of the power of Congress to-regulate interstate and
foreign commerce. Evidently it can find no other support, for Congress has no authority over the Missouri,
Oklahoma & Gulf Railway Company, whose receivers are
appellees here, or over the other companies affected by
this law, except by reason of its power to regulate com-,
merce; and it possesses this authority only because those
corporations voluntarily have chosen to engage in commerce among the States. A contention that CongreWs

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

has power to compel the railroads and their employees
to continue to carry on such commerce at all costs will be
dealt with hereafter.
If, therefore, the act be not in a real and substantial
sense a regulation of commerce, it is in excess of the constitutional power of Congress. "Manifestly, any rule
prescribed for the conduct of interstate commerce, in
order to be within the competency of Congress under its
power to regulate commerce among the States, must have
some real or substantial relation to or connection with
the commerce regulated." Adair v. United States, 208
U.'S. 161, 178. And, though it be a regulation of commerce, it is void if it conflicts with the provisions of the
Fifth Amendment, that no person shall be "deprived of
life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor
shall private property be taken for public use, without just
compensation." Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.
445, 471; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, 180;
United States v. Cress, decided March 12, 1917, ante, 316.
I am convinced, iii the first place, that the act cannot be
sustained as a regulation of commerce, because it has no
such object, operation, or effect. It removes no impediment or obstruction from the way of traffic or intercourse,
prescribes no service to the public, lays down no rule
respecting the mode in which service is to be performed,
or the safeguards to be placed about it, or the qualifications or conduct of those who are to perform it. In short,
it has no substantial relation to or connection with commerce-no closer relation than has the price which' the
carrier pays for its engines and cars or for the coal used in
propelling them.
The suggestion that it was passed to prevent a threatened strike, and in this sense to remove an obstruction
from the path of commerce, while true in fact is immaterial
in law. It amounts to no more than saying that it was

WILSON v. NEW.,

243 U. S.

PITNEY

and

VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

enacted to take care of an emergency. But an emergency
can neither create a power nor excuse a defiance of the
limitations upon the powers of the Government. Exparte
Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 121.
The simple effect of §3 is to increase', during the period
of its operation, the rate of wages of railroad trainmen
employed in interstate commerce. It comes to this,that whereas the owners of the railroads have devoted
their property to the movement of interstate as well as
intrastate commerce, and whereas the trainmen have accepted employment in such commerce, and thus employers
and employees are engaged together in a quasi public
service, the act steps in and prescribes how the money
earned in the public service shall be divided between the
owners of the railroads and these particular employees.
This, in my View, is a regulation not of commerce but of
the internal affairs of the commerce carriers,-precisely
as if an act were to provide that the rate of interest payable to the bondholders must be increased and the dividend payments to the stockholders correspondingly decreased-and is not only without support in the commerce
clause of the Constitution, but, as I shall endeavor to show,
transgresses the limitations of the Fifth Amendment.
The oft-quoted declaration of Chief Justice Marshall in
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196, that the power to regulate commerce among the States, like all others vested
in Congress, "is complete in itself, may be exercised to its
utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations, other
than are prescribed in the constitution," means that the
exercise of the power is not dependent on, and is not to be
hampered by, the action of the States, and is unrestrained
by any qualification other than such as are contained in
the fundamental law. To say that the power "acknowledges no limitations" is not to say that it is limitless in
extent, for it is confined by the very definition of the subject matter. The power is vast, but is not vague, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY

and

VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

error inevitably must result from treating it as nebulous.
The act stands wholly without precedent in either state
or national legislation. Let it be admitted that mere
novelty is not a ground of constitutional objection, since
it is the appropriate function of a legislature to change
the law. This act, however, differs not only in degree,
but in kind, from any and all that have preceded it. It
is now nearly thirty years since Congress entered the
field of direct regulation of interstate railway carriers.
Before that the entire field was open to the States, and
since the year 1887 the regulation of their internal commerce has still remained open to them. This has been a
period of intense and widespread activity and progress
in commerce regulation, and, as it happens, of equal progress respecting legislation in the interest of workingmen.
The fact that no law fixing the rate of compensat~gn for
railroad employees ever was proposed until this act was
brought forward a very few days before its passage, and
then only under the coercive influence of a threatened
public calamity, is the strongest evidence that in the judgment of executives and legislators, state and national,
measures of this sort were not within the bounds of permissible regulation of commerce.
As already stated, the act has not the effect of imposing
any limit to the number of hours that a trainman may
work in a day, nor any penalty for overtime work. Therefore, it cannot be sustained upon the ground on which the
court sustained the Act of March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1415,
c. 2939, limiting the hours of service of employees engaged
in interstate commerce, a ground epitomized in Baltimore
& Ohio R. R. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 221 U. S. 612,
619, as follows: "The length of hours of service has direct
relation to the efficiency of the human agencies upon which
protection to life and property necessarily depends.
.
In its power suitably to provide for the safety of employds

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

PITNEY

and

VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

and travelers, Congress was not limited to the enactment of
laws relating to mechanical appliances, but it was also competent to consider, and to endeavor to reduce, the dangers
incident to the strain of excessive hours of duty on the part
of engineers, conductors, train dispatchers, telegraphers, and
other persons embraced within the class defined by the act."
The Safety Appliance Acts are as evidently distinguishable, they likewise being designed to secure the safety of
employees and travelers, as this court repeatedly has held.
Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, 17; Southern
Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20, 26; Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33, 41.
Nor does the Federal Employers' Liability Act of
April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, c. 149, furnish a precedent
for the present legislation. The constitutionality of that
act was sustained in Second Employers' Liability Cases,
223 U. S. 1, upon grounds very clearly set forth in the
opinion, thus (p. 48): "Congress, in the exertion of its
power over interstate commerce, may regulate the relations.of common carriers by railroad and their employ6s,
while both are engaged in such commerce, subject always
to the limitations prescribed in the Constitution, and to
the qualification that the particulars in which those relations are regulated must have a real or substantial connection with the interstate commerce in which the carriers and their employ~s are engaged"; and again (pp. 5051): "The natural tendency of the changes described
is to impel thq carriers to avoid or prevent the negligent
acts and omissions which are made the bases of the rights
of recovery which the statute creates and defines; and, as
whatever makes for that end tends to promote the safety
of the employ~s and to advance the commerce in which
they are engaged, we entertain no doubt that in making
those changes Conigress acted within the limits of the discretion confided to it by the Constitution."
Progressive as has been the legislation of Congress and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY and VAN "DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

the States enacted during the past thirty years for the
regulation of common carriers, I have found none at all
analogous to that now under consideration. Besides
the acts already referred to, laws have been passed respecting tariffs, bills of lading, through routes, joint rates,
the exchange of traffic, terminal charges, locomotive
headlights, and a multitude of other matters; but each and
all of these have some direct and substantial relation to
commerce itself.
The suggestion that an increase in the wages of trainmen will increase their contentment, encourage prompt
and efficient service, and thus facilitate the movement of
commerce, is altogether fanciful. The increase effected
is not at all conditioned upon contented or efficient service. It benefits alike those who are efficient and those
who are not. It does not equalize wages, but applies
proportionately in all cases; making the least increase
upon railroads whose rates of pay are the lowest, the greatest where wages are the highest. As a measure for improving the quality of railroad locomotives, a law requiring the companies tb pay 25% more thah before for each
locomotive, without stipulating for any improvement in,
the quality, would be absurdly ineffective. Equally futile,
as a measure for improvement of the quality of railway
supplies, would be a provision of law compelling the roads
to pay 25% more than formerly for rails, crossties, fuel,
and the like, irrespective of the question of quality. In
each of these instances the natural effect of the regulation
as an aid to commerce would be precisely the same as that
of the act under consideration-that is, nil.
The attempt is made to sustain the act as analogous
to the exercise of the power to fix rates of freight and fare
for the carriage of commodities and passengers, or as a
branch of that power. This, in my judgment, is a false
analogy. The origin and basis of the governmental power
to regulate rates are in the right of the public to demand

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

PITNEY

and

VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

and secure the services of the common carrier on reasonable and equal terms, and without haggling as to rates
or other terms. Every member of the public is entitled
to be served, and rates are established by public authority
in order to protect the public against oppression and discrimination. But there is no common or other right on
the part of the trainmen to demand employment from the
carriers, nor any right on the part of the carriers to compel the trainmen to serve them. The employment is a
matter of private bargaining between the parties, in which
each has a constitutional right to exact such terms as he
may deem proper. Adair v, United States, 208 U. S. 161,
•172-3; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, 20. Thus the
sole foundation of the governmental power to fix rates
is absent in the case of wages, and the asserted power to
fix the latter is incorisistent with the constitutional rights
of employer and employee to agree between themselves
respecting the terms of the employment.
But further, the interest of the public in the regulation
of rates lies in limiting the carrier to a reasonable compensation for his services. Incidentally, such a regulation
may exert an indirect influence upon wages, as upon other
expenditures of the carrier. Thus, the Interstate Commerce Commission has held that undue cost of operation
or management cannot stand as a justification for unreasonably high rates. Milk Producers' Protective Association v. Delaware, L. & W. R. R. Co., 7 I. C. C. 92, 164;
Society of American Floristsv. U. S. Express Co., 12 I. C. C.
120, 127. But whatever concern the public authorities,
as regulators of commerce, have in the cost of operation or
management (including the rates of wages) is in the direction of lowering-not increasing-expenses. The present
act has for its purpose and necessary effect the raising
of wages; and, whatever may be its justification from the
humanitarian standpoint, it cannot seriously be regarded
as a regulation of commerce because incidental to a regula-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

tion of rates. It is, indeed, the very antithesis of such a
regulation. If it reduced wages, it would be much more
easily supportable on this theory.
The primary and fundamental constitutional defect
that I find in the act now under consideration is precisely
this: That it undertakes to regulate the relations of common carriers by railroad to their employees in respect to
a particular matter-an increase of wages-that has no
real and substantial connection with the interstate commerce in which the carriers and their employees are engaged. Certainly the amount of wages that shall be paid
to a trainman has no more substantial relation to commerce than the matter which was under consideration in
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, that is, the right of
an employee to retain his employment notwithstanding
his membership in a labor organization. In that case this
court, by Mr. Justice Harlan, used the following language
(p. 178): "But what possible legal or logical connection is
there between an employ4's membership in a labor organization and the carrying on of interstate commerce?
Such relation to a labor organization cannot have, in itself
and in the eye of the law, any bearing upon the commerce
with which the employ6 is connected by his labor and
services."
It proves nothing to say that the increase of pay was or
is necessary, in the judgment of Congress, to prevent all
railroad service in interstate commerce from being suspended. As a law to prevent a strike, the act is quite intelligible; but, as we have seen, theemergency conferred no
power upon Congress to impose the burden upon the carriers. If the ptiblic exigency required it, Congress perhaps
might have appropriated public moneys to satisfy the
demands of the trainmen. But there is no argument for
requiring the carriers to pay the cost, that would not
equally apply torenewed demands, as often as made, if
made by men who had the power to tie up traffic. I cannot

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

PiTNEY and VAN

DEVANTER,

383

JJ., dissenting.

believe that this is regulation of commerce, within the
meaning of the Constitution.
But, secondly, as already remarked, and as shown in the
above quotation from 223 U. S. p. 49, the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States is"subject
always to the limitations prescribed in the Constitution,"
and, among others, to the inhibition of. the Fifth Amendment against the deprivation of liberty or roperty without due process of law and the taking of private property
for public use without just compensation. This has been
held so often that it hardly is necessary to cite cases.
Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.
312, 336; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 471; Adair
v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, 180; United State' v. Cress,
decided March 12, 1917, ante, 316.
I am convinced that the act trangresses this provision
of the Amendment in two respects; first, in that it exceeds
the bounds of proper regulation, and deprives the owners
of the railroads of their fundamental rights of liberty and
property; and, secondly, in that Congress, although.confessedly not in possession of the information necessary for
intelligent and just treatment of the pending controversy
between the carriers and the trainmen (for the act itself,
in its second section, provides for the vety investigation
that the history of the legislation shows was imperatively
necessary), arbitrarily imposed upon the carriers the entire and enormous cost of an experimental increase in
wages, without providing for any compensation to be
paid in case the investigation should demonstrate the impropriety of the increase.
Upon the first of these points, I repeat that the sole
authority of Congress to regulate these railroad corporations, including that company which is represented in the
present action, arises from the fact that they voluntarily
have devoted their property to the service of interstate
commerce. I am unable to find in the Constitution any

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PiTNEY

and

VAN DVANmnE,

JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

authority on the part of Congress to commandeer the railroads, or the services of the trainmen. The cases that are
referred to as sustaining the supposed obligation of the
carrier to carry on its business regardless of cost, and the
authority of government to compel performance of that
obligation (Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North Carolina
CorporationCommission, 206-U. S. 1, 27; Missouri Pacific
Railway v. Kansas, 216 U. S.262, 279; see, also, Wisconsin
&c. Railroad Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 302), were
decisions sustaining the power of state governments to
enforce obligations arising out of the grant by the State
to the railroad company of the right of existence and the
franchise to operate its road; and they were decided upon
the authority of a line of decisions in the state courts
(Mayor &c. of Worcester v. Norwich &c. Railroad Co.,
109 Massachusetts, 103, 113; People v. Boston & Albany
R. R. Co., 70 N. Y. 569, 571; People v. New York &c.R. R.
Co., 104 N. Y. 58, 67; People v. St. Louis &c. R. R. Co.,
176 Illinois, 512, 524) that based the right of control upon
the power of the State to enforce the charter obligation
and the reserved power to alter or amend the charter in
the public interest. The relation of the Federal Government to railroad companies not chartered by it is altogether different, being dependent entirely upon the fact
that the companies have seen fit to engage in interstate
transportation, a branch of business from which, in my
opinion, they are at liberty to withdraw at any time,so far as any authority of the Federal Government to
prevent it is concerned,-however impracticable such
withdrawal may be.
The extent .to which regulation properly can go under
such circumstances was defined very clearly by this court
in the great case of Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.113, where
Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, said
(p. 126): "Property does become clothed with a public
interest when used in a manner to make it of public con-

WILSON v. NEW.
243 U. S.

PrrNEY and VAN DEVAN1'ER, JJ.; dissenting.

sequence, and affect the community at large. When,
therefore, one devotes his property to a use in which the
public has an interest, he, in effect, grants to the public
an interest in that use, and must submit to be controlled
by the public for the common good, to the extent of the
interest he has thus created. He may withdraw his grant
by discontinuing the use; but, so long as he maintains the
use, he must submit to the control." The control there
referred to was a regulation by the State of the service
performed by public warehouses and a limitation of the
charges for that service. The opinion made it plain that
the interest of the public was not in the property, but in
the use of it; that not its management or disposition in
general, but only the manner of its use in the service of
the public, was subject to control.
The same limitation upon the authority of the public
has been variously expressed in many decisions. Thus in
Interstate Com. Comm. v. Chicago G. W. Ry., 209 U. S.
108, 118, the court, by Mr. Justice-Brewer, said: "It must
be remembered that railroads are the private property of
their owners; that while from the public character of the
work in which they are engaged the public has the power
to prescribe rules for securing faithful and efficient service and equality between shippers and communities, yet
in no proper sense is the public a general manager." In
Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 219 U. S.
433, 444, reference was made to the unwarranted assertion by the Commission of" a power which if it obtained
would open a vast field for the exercise of discretion, to
the destruction of rights of private property in railroads,
and would in effect assert public ownership without any of
the responsibilities which ownership would imply." And,
in the MinnesotaRate Cases, 230 U. S.352, 433, it was said:
"The property of the railroad corporation has been devoted to a public use. There is always the obligation
springing from the nature of the business in which it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PiTNEY and VAN

DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

243 U. S.

engaged-which private exigency may not be permitted
to ignore-that there shall not be an exorbitant charge
for the service rendered. But the State has not seen fit
to undertake the service itself; and the private property
embarked in it is not placed at the mercy of legislative
caprice. It rests secure under the constitutional protection which extends not merely to the title but to the right
to receive just compensation for the service given to the
public."
The case last mentioned was one of alleged confiscation resulting from a state law limiting rates of freight,
and the language quoted was appropriate to that topic.
But the right to immunity from confiscation is not the
only right of property safeguarded by the Fifth Amendment. Rights of property include something more than
mere ownership and the privilege of receiving a limited
return from its use. The right to control, to manage,
and to dispose of it, the right to put it at risk in business,
and by legitimate skill and enterprise to make gains beyond the fixed rates of interest, the right to hire employees,
to bargain freely with them about the rate of wages,
and from their labors to make lawful gains-these are
among the essential rights of property, that pertain to
owners of railroads as to others. The devotion of their
property to the public use does not give to the public
an interest in the property, but only in its use.
This act, in my judgment, usurps the right of the owners
of the railroads to manage their own properties, and is an
attempt to control and manage the properties rather than
to regulate their use in commerce. In particular, it deprives the carriers of their right to agree with their em-'
ployees as to the terms of employment. Without amplifying the point, I need only refer again to Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161, 174, 178.
I wholly dissent from the suggestion, upon which great
stress is laid in the opinion of the majority of the court,

WILSON v. NEW.

243 U. S. PiTNEY and VAN

DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

that the admittedly private right of the carriers and their
employees to fix by agreement between themselves the
standard of wages to control their relations-a right guaranteed by the "due process of law" clause, as this court
repeatedly has held-can be set at naught or treated as
waived in the present instance because the parties have
failed to agree, or that legislative interference can be
justified on that ground. The right to contract is the
right to say by what terms one will be bound. It is of
the very essence of, the right that the parties may remain
in disagreement if either party is not content with any
term proposed by the other. A failure to agree is not a
waiver but an exercise of the right-as much so as the
making of an agreement.
To say that the United States has such a relation to
interstate traffic and the transportation of the mails that
it may interfere directly by force, or indirectly through
the courts, to remove obstructions placed by wrongdoers
in the way of such transportation (In re Debs, 158 U. S.
564, 582, 586), is not to say that, when obstruction is
threatened, Congress, without taking over the railroads
and paying just compensation to the owners, may exercise control of the revenues and dispose of them for the
purpose of buying peace, either by direct intervention or
through coercive legislation. To do this is to ignore the
distinction between meum and tuum, to safeguard which
was one of the objects of the Fifth Amendment.
The logical consequences of the doctrine now announced
are sufficient to condemn it. If Congress may fix wages
of trainmen in interstate commerce during a term of
months, it may do so during a term of years, or indefinitely.
If it may increase wages, much more certainly it may reduce them. If it may establish a minimum it may establish a maximum. If it may impose its arbitral award
upon the parties in a dispute about wages, it may do the
same in the event of a dispute between the railroads and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

243 TT. S.

the coal-miners, the car-builders, or the producers of any
other commodity essential to the proper movement of
traffic.
That the act is a wide departure from all previous legislation for regulating commerce has been shown. The
bearing of this upon the present point is obvious, since
it is a safe assertion that every dollar of the thousands of
millions that are invested in railroads in this country
has been invested without any anticipation or reason for
anticipating that a law of this character would be adjudged
to be permissible, either as a regulation of commerce or
on any other ground.
Upon the second ground of repugnancy to the Fifth
Amendment I need not dwell, since it is dealt with fully
in the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Day, with whose
views upon that question I entirely agree.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER concurs in this dissent,

including that portion of MR. JUSTICE DAY'S dissenting
opinion just mentioned.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs, dissenting.
Whatever else the Act of September 3, 1916, may do,
it certainly commands that during a minimum period of
seven months interstate common carriers by railroads
shall pay their employees engaged in operating trains for
eight hours' work a wage not less than the one then established for a standard day-generally ten hours.
I have not heretofore supposed that such action was a
regulation of commerce within the fair intendment of
those words as used in the Constitution; and the argument advanced in support of the contrary view is unsatisfactory to my mind. I cannot, therefore, concur in the
conclusion that it was within the power of Congress to
enact the statute.

JTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. v. UNITED STATES. 389
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

But, considering the doctrine now affirmed by a majority of the court as established, it follows as of course
that Congress has power to fix a maximum as well as a
minimum wage for trainmen; to require compulsory arbitration of labor disputes which may seriously and
directly jeopardize the movement of interstate traffic; and
to take measures effectively to protect the free flow of such
commerce against any combination, whether of operatives,
owners, or strangers.

UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
UNITED STATES v. UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY.

BEAVER RIVER POWER COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
UNITED STATES v. BEAVER RIVER POWER COM-

PANY.
NUNN ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. NUNN ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF UTAH.
Nos. 202-207.

Argued October 11, 12, 1916.-Decided March 19, 1917.

The power to regulate the use of the lands of the United States, and
to prescribe the conditions upon which rights in them may be acquired by others, is vested exclusively in Congress.
The inclusion of such lands within a State does not diminish this power,
or subject the lands or interests in them to disposition by the state

