BOWERSOCK v. SMITH.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

but the mere significance of the rules. That, coming to
this, the contention involves no question under the National Bank Law upon which to base jurisdiction to review is so conclusively settled as not to be open. Le
Sassier v. Kennedy, 123 U. S. 521; Chemical Bank v.
City Bank of Portage, 160 U. S. 646; Union National

Bank v. Louisville, New Albany & Chicago Ry. Co.,
163 U. S. 325; Leyson v. Davis, 170 U. S. 36; Capital
National Bank v. First National Bank of Cadiz, 172 U. S.
425. It follows, therefore, that as there is nothing within
our competency to review, the writ of error must be and
it is

Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BOWERSOCK v. SMITH, ADMINISTRATRIX OF
SMITH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS..
No. 172.

Submitted February 1, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A State may by law provide for the protection of employees engaged
in hazardous occupations by requiring that dangerous machinery'
be safeguarded, and by making the failure to do so an act of negligence upon which a cause of action may be based in case of injury
or death resulting therefrom.
Consistently with due process, the State may alsoprovide that in actions brought under such a statute the doctrines of contributory
negligence, assumption of risk and fellow servant shall not bar recovery and that the burden shall be upon the defendant to show
compliance with the act.
Chapter 356 of the Laws of Kansas of 1903, Gen. Stata., 1909, §§ 46764683, as construed by the Supreme Court of the State, lays upon the
owners of manufacturing establishments an absolute duty to safeguard their machinery, makes them liable in damages for injuries

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

or death of employees resulting from breach of the duty, and abolishes the defenses of contributory negligence and assumption of
risk. Held, that the statute was not rendered violative of due process under the Fourteenth Amendment by application to the case
of an employee who had contracted with the owner to provide the
safeguards the absence of which resulted later in his injury and death.
The statute makes the duty to provide safeguards absolute in the case
of corporate as well as indiidual owners, and hence affords no basis
for a contention that it denies the equal protection of the laws in
permitting the former, while forbidding the latter, to escape liability
by contract.
95 Kansas, 96, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles F. Hutchings and Mr. McCabe Moore for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph Taggart, Ada Burhans Smith, Administratrix, pro se, Mr. J. H. Mitchell and Mr. S. D. Bishop for
defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Chapter 356 of the Laws of Kansas of 1903, General
Statutes of 1909, §§ 4676 to 4683, is entitled and provides
in part as follows:
"An Act requiring safeguards for the protection of all
persons employed or laboring in manufacturing establishments, and providing civil remedies -for all persons so
engaged, or their personal representatives, in cases where
any such person may be killed or injured while employed
or laboring in any manufacturing establishment which
is not properly provided with the safeguards required by
this act.

"See. 4. All

machinery of every description
used in a manufacturing establishment shall, where prac.

.

.

BOWERSOCK v. SMITH.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ticable, be properly and safely guarded, for the purpose of
preventing or avoiding the death of or injury to the persons employed or laboring in any such establishment;
and it is hereby made the duty of all persons owning or
operating manufacturing establishments to provide and
keep the same furnished with safeguards as herein specified.
"Sec. 5. If any person employed or laboring in any manufacturing establishment shall be killed or injured in any
case wherein the absence of any of the safeguards or precautions required by the act shall directly contribute to
such death or injury, the personal representatives of the
person so killed, or the person himself, in case of injury
only, may maintain an action against the person owning
or operating such manufacturing establishment for the
recovery .of all proper damages.
"Sec. 6. In all actions brought under and by virtue of
the provisions of this act, it shall be sufficient for the
plaintiff to prove in the first instance, in order to establish the liability of the defendant, that the death or injury
complained of resulted in consequence of the failure of the
person owning or operating the manufacturing establishment where such death or injury occurred to provide said
establishment with safeguards as required by this act,
or that the failure to provide such safeguard directly
contributed to such death or injury."
This act being in force, Smith, the superintendent of
the Lawrence Paper Manufacturing Company, while
engaged in adjusting some unguarded dryer rolls, was
caught between them, crushed and killed. Relying upon
the law above quoted, his personal representative sued
Bowersock, the owner of the factory, to recover the
damages suffered. The petition alleged the dangerous
character of the dryer rolls and the fact that, although it
was practicable to guard them, the requirements of the
act in that respect had not been complied with, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

charged that the failure to do so directly caused the death
of Smith. It was further alleged that at the time of the

accident Smith was engaged in adjusting the machinery
under the direction of a superior officer, the assistant
manager of the factory. The answer, while denying
generally the allegations of the petition, alleged that it
was not practicable to guard the dryer rolls and averred
that Smith was guilty of contributory negligence. It was
also averred that as superintendent Smith by his contract
of employment was under the duty of safeguarding the
machinery and was charged generally with authority
to direct the use of the same and hence he had assumed
the risk of injury from-failure to guard the dryer rolls and
hence his injury and death resulted solely from his own
neglect'and through no fault on the part of the owner.
At the trial the plaintiff's eiidence tended to support all
of the allegations of the petition. The defendant offered
evidence tending to show that the guarding of the dryer
rolls was not practicable and that Smith had been guilty
of contributory negligence. Further evidence was introduced tending to show that when Smith was employed as
superintendent it was stipulated by him as a condition
to his accepting the position, that he should have full and
complete charge and management of the factory, including
grounds, building, machinery and men, and that he should
place guards on the machinery where needed for the protection of the employees. In addition the defendant, in
support of the allegation that he had fully performed his
duty under the statute, introduced in evidence the following notice which he had posted in the factory in question and three others which he carried on:
"CAUTION. Every Employe is Urged to be Careful
in Order to Avoid Accidents.
"If there is any machinery, dangerous place or tool that
you think should be safeguarded, repaired or innroved,
we will regard it a favor if you will report same at once to

BOWERSOCK v. SMITH.

243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the office. It is desired that all employes assist in reducing
accidents to lowest possible point. November, 1911."
The court instructed the jury over the objection of the
defendant that under the statute contributory negligence
was no defence and that the fact that Smith was employed
as superintendent of the factory with authority to safeguard the machinery would not bar a recovery and charged
with reference to the burden of proof in accordance with
the provision of the statute relating to that subject.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff and the judgment
entered thereon was affirmed by the court below. It was
held, following previous decisions, that the common-law
defences of contributory negligence, fellow servant and
assumption of the risk were not applicable to suits under
the statute. The court further construing the statute,
held that it embraced all employees of every class or
rank in the factories to which it applied and that merely
because the deceased was employed as superintendent
did not exclude him from the benefits of the act nor relieve
the owner from responsibility under it. And it was held
that a different result was not required because the deceased had contracted with the owner to safeguard the
machinery under the circumstances of his employment.
In so ruling the court referred to the evidence and pointed
out that although there was testimony as to the authority
of the deceased under his contract to safeguard the machinery, at the same time the evidence showed that in the exercise of such authority he was under the control of three
superiors, all of whom had testified that they did not consider it practicable to safeguard the dryer rolls. Attention was also directed to the notice above reproduced
which the defendant posted with reference to guards on
machinery as showing a control over that subject by the
owner. 95 Kansas, 96.
The case is here because of the asserted denial of rights
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

That government may, in the exercise of its police power,
provide for the protection of employees engaged in hazardous occupations by requiring that dangerous machinery
be safeguarded and by making the failure to do so an act
of negligence upon which a cause of action may be based
in case of injury resulting therefrom, is undoubted. And
it is also not disputable that, consistently with due process,
it may be provided that in actions brought under such
statute the doctrines of contributory negligence, assumption of risk and fellow servant shall not bar a recovery,
and that the burden of proof shall be upon the defendant
to show a compliance with the act. Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S; 1; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Castle, 224 U. S. 541; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry.
Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 559; Mobile, Jackson &
Kansas City R. R. Co. v. Turnipseed,.219 U. S. 35; Easterling Lumber Co. v. Pierce, 235 U. S. 380.
While not directly disputing these propositions and conceding that the Kansas statute contains them and that it
is not invalid for that reason, nevertheless it is insisted
that the construction placed upon the statute by the court
below causes it to be repugnant to the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. This contention is based
alone upon the ruling made by the court below that under
the statute the deceased had a right to recover although
he had contracted with the owner to provide the' safeguards the failure to furnish which caused his death, a
result which, it is urged, makes the owner liable and allows a recovery by the employee because of his neglect
of duty. We think the contention is without merit. It
is clear that the statute as interpreted by the court below
-a construction which is not challenged-'imposed a duty
as to safeguards upon the owner which was absolute and
as to which he could not relieve himself by contract. This
being true, the contention has nothing to rest upon since

BOWERSOCK v. SMITH.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the nature of things the want of power to avoid the
duty and liability which the statute imposed embraced
all forms of contract, whether of employment or otherwise, by which the positive commands of the statute
would be .frustrated or rendered inefficacious. Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 52.
Again it is contended that the statute denies to the plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws, since it discriminates against factories owned and operated by individuals in favor of those carried on by corporations.
This is the case, it is said, because a corporation in the
nature of things can only comply with the requirements
of the statute by contracting with agents or employees
to safeguard the machinery, to whom in case of injury
the corporation would not be liable, while an individual
owner under the ruling of the court must perform that.
duty himself. The reasoning is obscure but we think it
suffices to say that it rests upon an entire misconception
since the statute imposes the positive duty to have the
machinery duly safeguarded whether the owner be an
individual or a corporation, and the want of power by
contract to escape the liability which the statute imposes
also equally applied to corporations as well as individuals.
It follows, therefore, that the statute affords no semblance
of ground upon which to rest the argument of inequality
which is urged.
Affirmed.

