OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

sideration is a controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296;
Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223; Tefft, Weller & Company v.
Munsuri, 222 U. S. 114; Barnes v. Pampel, Circuit Court
of Appeals, 6th Circuit, 192 Fed. Rep. 525.
We find no merit in the contention that, after the passage of the Act of 1915, appellate proceedings in this
court in such suits as this should continue to be controlled by the general provisions of the Judicial Code.
This statute manifested the purpose of Congress to relieve this court from the necessity of considering cases
of this character, except when brought here by the writ
of certiorari. Central Trust Co. v. Lueders, 239 U. S. 11;
Shattuck, Trustee, v. Title Guaranty & Surety Co., 239
U. S. 637.
It follows that the motion to dismiss this appeal for
want of jurisdiction must be granted.
Appeal dismissed.

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.'
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Nos. 650, 722. Argued January 15, 16, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
The British merchant steamship Appam., captured on the high seas
by a German cruiser and navigated to a port of the United States
in control of German officers and crew, during the war between
The docket titles of these cases are: No. 650, Hans Berg, Prize
Master in charge of the Prize Ship "Appam," and L. M. Von Schilling,
Vice-Consul of the German Empire, Appellants, v. British & African
Steam Navigation Co.; No. 722, Same v. Henry G. Harrison, Master
of the Steamship "Appam."

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Great Britain and Germany, is held to have been brought here as a
prize.
Under the principles of international law, as recognized by our government since an early day in its history and as emphasized in its attitude in the Hague Conference of 1907, it is a clear breach of our
neutral rights for one of two belligerent governments, with both
of which we are at peace, to make use of our ports for the indefinite
storing and safe-keeping of prizes captured from its adversary on
the high seas.
Failure of our government to issue a proclamation on the subject will
not warrant the use of our ports to store prizes indefinitely, and
certainly not where the possibility of removal depends upon recruiting crews in violation of our established rules of neutrality.
The Treaty with Prussia of 1799i 8 Stat. 172, 173, Article 19, makes
no provision for indefinite stay of vessels, and includes prizes only
when in charge of vessels of war.
The violation of neutrality committed by a belligerent in wrongfully
making use of one of our ports for storing indefinitely a merchant
vessel and cargo captured on the high seas, affords jurisdiction in
admiralty to the United States District Court of the locality to
seize the vessel and cargo and restore them to their private owners.
In such case, proceedings in a prize court of the belligerent country
could not oust the jurisdiction of the District Court having the
vessel in custody or defeat its judgment.
234 Fed. Rep. 389, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick W. Lehmann, with whom Mr. John W.
Clifton, Mr. Norvin R. Lindheim, Mr. Robert M. Hughes
and Mr. Walter S. Penfield were on the briefs, for appellants: I
The capture of the Appam was a lawful act of war, and
vested the property in the ship in the German. Empir'e,
as between the parties to this suit, since confessedly no
property rights of neutrals or of individual captors are
'Lack of space prevents a full representation of the interesting
arguments made in this case. The reply briefs have suffered. especially
in the attempt at condensation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellants.

243 U. S.

involved. The Mary Ford, 3 Dall. 188. As between the
belligerents, the capture, undoubtedly, produces a complete divestiture of property. The Adventure, 8 Cranch,
221, 226; The Adeline, 9 Cranch, 244, 285; The Astrea,
1 Wheat. 125; The Josefa Segunda, 5 Wheat. 338; The
Sally Magee, 3 Wall. 451; The Nassau, 4 Wall. 635; Manila
Prize Cases, 188 U. S. 254; Westlake, International Law,
vol. 2, 2d ed., p. 309; Wheaton, Maritime Captures and
Prizes, c. 9, § 5, p. 259; Mr. Lansing to the English Ambassador, March 13, 1915, Diplomatic Correspondence,
European War, Department of State, No. 2, p. 140. The
property of a neutral is of course not divested until sentence of condemnation. Hudson v. Guestier, 4 Cranch,
293, 295.
That jurisdiction of prize cases is vested exclusively in
the courts of the captor government, and that the mere
entry of a prize into neutral waters is not necessarily a
breach. of neutrality, axe propositions conceded by the
appellees.
It is not essential to the jurisdiction of the courts of
the captor country that the prize be brought into one of
its ports. Hudson v. Guestier, supra; Jecker y. Montgomery, 13 How. 498, 515. The courts of the neutral
country may inquire whether ,the vessel is held as a prize
of war, or whether her taking was a violation of the neutrality of their country, but no further. The Alerta, 9
Cranch, 359; The Betsey, 3 Dall. 6; The Invincible, 13 Fed.
Cas. 72; The Invincible, 1 Wheat. 238. Under all the decisions of this court, when the Appam was found to be a
prize of war, the libel should have been dismissed, unless
it was further found that in the circumstances of the capture itself there was a violation of our neutrality.
Bringing the Appam into our waters did not authorize
restitution to the original British owners. The breach
of neutrality which will forfeit a prize of war must be
one which invalidates the capture itself, which involves

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

the neutral nation as a participant in the act of war committed in taking the prize. If the capture is made in the
neutral waters and the prize is brought within the jurisdiction of the sovereign whose neutrality has been violated, restitution will be decreed, because the capture was
an act of trespass upon the sovereignty of the iieutral
power, and moreover, a violation of the shelter and asylum
which the captured vessel had a right to expect in the
neutral waters.
And of like nature is the case where the captor ship has
been equipped, or its equipment has been augmented,
within the neutral territory. Bringing the vessel in is not
the foundation of the right to redress, it simply gives
opportunity to award and enforce redress. The exceptions to the rule as to the exclusive cognizance of prize
cases by the courts of the captor country have never
been extended to cases of alleged violation of neutrality
after the capture, and not inherent in the capture. The
policy of our government was fixed and made public
during the administration of Washington, and has been
adhered to ever since, and the decisions of this court are
in perfect harmony with that policy. See Jefferson to
British Minister, 1793, 4 Jefferson's Works, H. A. Washington ed., p. 78; Washington to Congress, 1793, 1 Am.
State Papers, p. 21; Talbot v. Jansen, 3 Dali. 133; The
Alerta, supra, 359; The Invincible, 1 Wheat. 238; The
Divina Pastora,4 Wheat. 52; The Estrella, 4 Wheat. 298;
The Neustra Senora de la Caridad, 4 Wheat. 497; La
Amistad de Rues, 5 Wheat. 385; La Conception, 6 Wheat.
235; The Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 283; The Gran
Para, 7 Wheat. 471; The Santa Maria, 7 Wheat. 490;
The Monte Allegre, 7 Wheat. 520.
Where, as in this case, the capture was a valid act of
war, made under the connission of a belligerent power
on the high seas, and the capture is complete, the crew
of the captured ship submitting to the control of the cap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellants.

243 U. S.

tors, and there remains nothing but the hope of recapture, a hope that is not realized, the captured ship is
good prize and is the property of the captor government,
as much so as are its ships of war, and what its rights or
privileges in our ports may be, how long it may stay, or
whether it may come into them at all, are questions between our government and the government of the captors, and do not at all concern the original owner of the
captured ship. He has not been injured, he has lost
nothing by such acts. See The Anne, 3 Wheat. 435; The
Sir William Peel, 5 Wall. 517; The Adela, 6 Wall. 266;
The Florida, 101 U. S. 37; Queen v. The Chesapeake, 1
Oldright (Nova Scotia), 797; Williams v. Armroyd, 7
Cranch, 423.
The Appam is a public ship of the German Empire,
and entitled: to all the rights and immunities of such a
ship. As the property of the German Government the
ship was public property-a public ship-and could be
nothing else. That government might devote her to any
use it deemed proper or might destroy her altogether.
A ship may be a public ship without being a ship of war.
Hall, International Law, 5th ed., p. 161. The Government of the United States in this war has announced its
intention to treat a prize as a public vessel. Neutrality
Proclamation re Panama Canal, November 13, 1914,
Diplomatic Correspondence, European War, Department
of State, No. 2, pp. 18, 19. Our ports are open to the
public ships of friendly powers, and they may remain
while our government allows. The Exchange, 7 Cranch,
116. Their exemption from the jurisdiction of our courts
depends rather upon their public than upon their military
character. Briggs v. Light Boats, 11 Allen, 157, 186. The
general practice of our government has been in harmony
with the views we present. John Paul Jones to Robert
Morris, 1783, 7 Diplomatic Correspondence of the United
States, p. 288; Franklin to Danish Minister, 3 Wharton,

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Diplomatic Correspondence of the American Revolution,
p. 433; Franklin to Jones, 1785, 7 Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States, p. 341; 'Resolution of
Congress of Confederation, October 25, 1787, id., p. 362;
Jefferson to Danish Secretary, 1788, 6 Jefferson's Works,
Monticello ed., p. 414; Jefferson to British Minister,
1793, 1 Am. State Papers, Foreign Relaions, p. 176;
4 Jefferson's Works, H. A. Washington ed., p. 65; Moore's
International Law Digest, vol. 7, p. 983; Wheaton to
Prussian Minister, 1843, id., p. 982; Cushing to Marcy, 7
Ops. Atty. Gen. 122, 125, 129,131; Semmes' Correspondence with British authorities, 1864, Semmes' Service
Afloat, pp. 663, 741, 743.
In the treaties with Prussia, 1785 and 1799, Art. XIX,
the purpose of each party was to obtain shelter for its
warships and prizes in the ports of the other. The right
of prizes to come into port and their immunity while there
constitute the substance of the article, not the manner of
coming in or going out. They may "come and enter,"
and may be "carried out again" at any time. The common and proper use of the word "carry" includes the
ideas of sending and bringing. In The Felicity, 2 Dods.
281; s. c., 2 Roscoe's Prize Cases, 233, Sir William Scott
used carry and bring interchangeably. A prize may be
brought into port by a prize crew as well as under convoy.
The Alexander, 8 Cranch, 169; The Eleanor, 2 Wheat. 345.
The bringing in either case is the act of the captor. In
all the correspondence leading up to these treaties we have
seen nothing to suggest that on either side it was deemed
material whether a prize was brought in alone, by the
prize crew, or whether it was brought in by the captor
vessel. Everything indicates that it was all one to the
parties how the prize got into port so long as it got there.
And our. commissioners abroad used the words carry and
send indifferently to describe the taking of a prize into
port, whether with or without convoy. Franklin to Ver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellants.

243 U. S.

gennes, concerning the prizes "sent to Bergen," 1782,
7 Franklin's Works, (ed. John Bigelow), p. 397. In a
minute of their proceedings, as ministers plenipotentiary
on August 30, 1784, Franklin, Adams, and Jefferson speak
of these prizes as taken by Jones and "carried into
Bergen." 2 Diplomatic Correspondence of the United
States, p. 196. Jones himself in a letter to the Marechal
de Castries, of February 18, 1784, speaks of them as "sent
into port." 7 Diplomatic Correspondence of the United
States, p. 294. See also Franklin to Jones, 1778, 1 Sparks'
Diplomatic Correspondence, American Revolution, p. 361;
Jefferson to Baron de Blome, 1786, 2 Jefferson's Works,
(ed. H. A. Washington), p. 13; Order of Congress, 1787,
7 Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States, p. 364;
Act of March 28, 1806, 6 Stat. 61. The treaty is to be
construed in view of the circumstances and conditions
which prompted to its adoption. Vattel, Book II, c. 17,
§ 287; Hauenstein v. Lynham, ,100 U. S. 483; Tucker v.
Alexandroff, 183 U. S.424. The arrangement with Prussia
originated while we were at war with England, and anxious
to war on British shipping and safeguard prizes. Prussia
had no navy or large maritime interests. The treaty was
made out of friendship to this country and at its earnest
solicitation. The similar treaty with France of February 6, 1778, Art. XVII, Molloy, vol. 1, p.,474, actuated
by the same motive, was construed as allowing prizes-to
be sent in without convoys. Franklin to Jones, 1779,
Senate Reports, 63, 29th Cong., 2d sess., p. 5; Hamilton
to Collectors of Customs, 1793, 1 Am. State Papers,
Foreign Relations, p,140; Jefferson's opinion, 6 Jefferson's
Writings, p. 223; Jefferson to Genet, re The Fanny, 1793,
1. c. 329, note. See also questions and opinion formulated
by Jefferson for the Cabinet, 1793, 1. c. 351, 370, and his
letters to Morris and the British Minister, same year,
1. c. 383, 423, 444. See further Washington's Message of
December 3, 1793, 1 Messages of the Presidents (Rich-

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

ardson), p. 139; Solderondo v. The Nostra Signora, 21
Fed. Cas. 225; Reid v. Vere, 20 Fed. Cas. 488. See the
treaties of like purpose and effect with The Netherlands,
October 8, 1782, Molloy, vol. 2, pp. 1238, 1239; 3 Wharton,
International Law, p. 527; and with Sweden, April 3,
1783, Molloy, vol. 2, p. 1732, the latter taken as a model
by Prussia. 8 Works of John Adams, pp. 183, 191, 193.
Further as to the purpose and history of the Prussian
Treaty: Franklin and Deane to Continental Congress,
1777, 2 Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, American
Revolution, p. 322; Lee's letter from Berlin, 1777, 2'
Sparks' Diplomatic Correspondence, American Revolution, p. 88; Baron Schulenburg to Lee, 1778, 2 Wharton,
Diplomatic Correspondence, American Revolution, p. 472;
Adams, Franklin and Jefferson to Baron Thulemeier,
1785, 2 Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States,
p. 276; the latter's reply, 1785, 1. c. 304; Washington to
Rochambeau, 1786, 9 Sparks' Writings of Washington,
pp. 182, 183; Hamilton, 1795, 5 -Hamilton's Works (ed.
Henry Cabot Lodge), p. 113.
Article XIX of the first Prussian Treaty, modified in
1799, was revived by the Treaty of 1828, excluding the
provision which related to prizes made on British subjects. The letters exchanged March 31 and April 4, 1916,
between the British Ambassador and the Secretary of
State (Diplomatic Correspondence, European War, Department of State, No. 3, pp. 341 et seq.), show a definite
ruling by our political department that the presence of
the Appam in our waters did not violate neutrality. The
treaty, as re-enacted in 1828, is undoubtedly still in
force.
The municipal law of the United States is in accord with
international law as declared by this court. 35 Stat. 1090,
1091; Fenwick, Neutrality Laws of the United States,
c. 2, p. 26; 1 Am. State Papers, p. 140.
The neutrality proclamations of the United States are

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument fVr Appellanlo.

243 U. S.

in accord with its municipal law and with general international law. Having failed to interdict the entrance
of- prizes into Qur ports, permission to enter must be assumed. Our traditional policy, differing from that of
Europe, but adhered to in this war and throughout our
history, is not to forbid asylum for prizes. Montague
Bernard's Neutrality of Great Britain during the American
Civil War (London, 1870), pp. 133, 145 et seq.
It has consistently been held, that in the absence of express prohibition, prizes may enter and remain in neutral
ports. 7 Ops. Atty. Gen, '122; Moore's International Law
Digest, vol. 7, p. 982: Twiss, Law of Nations, 2d ed.,
vol. 2, pp. 453, 454; Hall, International Law, 5th ed.,
p. 618; Halleck, International Law, 1st ed., p. 523;
Calvo, Le Droit International Theorique et Pratique,
3d ed. (1880), vol. 3, p. 498; The Exchange, 7 Cranch,
116.
The questions at issue are not affected by the provisions
of the Hague Convention. The Hague Conventions do
not necessarily declare existing law, they may change it.
Scott's Texts of Hague Peace Conferences, 1899-1907,
Intro., pp. ix, xix; Preamble to Convention XIII, Scott's
Hague Peace Conferences, vol. 2, p. 507. Expressly,
these rules are subject to existing treaties. They apply
only if all belligerents are parties to the Convention.
Article 28, id., p. 519. Great Britain and Turkey have
not ratified; Convention XIII therefore does not apply.
The Farn Case, Mr. Lansing to British Ambassador,
Diplomatic Correspondence, European War, Department of State, No. 2, p. 140. The convention may not
be taken as evidence in the face of the consistent policy
of this country maintained by all branches of its government and never reversed. Besides, the Convention, taken
literally, does not deny permission to enter, and no penalty
could fall, under Art. 21, until after notice. which has
never been given.

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Mr. Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. James K. Symmers,
with whom Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, Mr. Herbert
Barry, Mr. Floyd Hughes, Mr. Ralph James M. Bullowa
and Mr. Munroe Smith were on the briefs, for appellees:
Unless they are expressly excluded, prizes may seek
temporary shelter in a neutral port, but not permanent
or indefinite asylum. This rule is the product of a long
course of historical development in the various maritime
countries. French Ordinances of 1543, 1674 and 1689;
French Prize Code of 1784. See Naval War College, International Law Situations, 1908, p. 54, and appendix to
5 Wheaton, 52-58. In 1650, and again in 1681, France
prohibited the stay of foreign prizes in her ports for more
than twenty-four hours. Pistoye & Duverdy, Traitd des
Prises Maritimes, vol. 2, pp. 449, 452. This is, perhaps,
the origin of the twenty-four hour limitation for belligerent
war vessels in neutral ports. Edict of the States General
of Holland of November 7, 1658, in note to The Josefa
Segunda, 5 Wheat. 349, citing Duponceau's Translation
of Bynkershoek. The English authorities recognize the
same general rule. The Flad Oyen, 1 C. Rob. 135; The
Henrick and Maria, 4 C. Rob. 43; The Polka, Spinks,
Ecclesiastical and Admiralty Reports, p. 447. The German Prize Code expressly recognizes it, Huberich &
King, pp. 64, 65. There is a striking agreement of
opinion among the leading text-writers. Wheaton's
Treatise on Capture (1815), pp. 262, 263; Wheaton,
International Law, 8th Am. ed., § 391, note; Hall, International Law, 5th ed., p. 618; Westlake, International
Law, part 2, p. 215; Risley, The Law of War, p. 176;
Dr. James Brown Scott, in American Journal of International Law, January, 1916, pp. 104-112; Bluntschli,
International Law, § 778, note.
During our ,Civil War, our War with Spain, and in the
Russo-Japanese War, neutral nations generally either excluded prizes or allowed only temporary entrance in cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

243 U. S.

of necessity. Bernard's History of British Neutrality,
pp. 137-141; Naval War College, International Law
Situations, 1908, pp. 70-73; American Journal of International Law, January, 1916, pp. 109 et seq.
The provisions of Arts. 21 and 22 of Convention XIII
of the Hague Conference of 1907 are declaratory of the existing law of nations. The express refusal of the United
States to accede to Art. 23 was notice to the world that this
country would not allow the sequestration of prizes in our
ports. The policy of the United States, as well as that of
Great Britain, is clearly shown by Arts. 21 and 22 which
were signed, adhered to or ratified by forty-three of the
powers. This is indicative of the very general agreement
among the nations that these articles declared existing'international law. The German Prize Code is equally convincing.
Article 23 is evidently inconsistent with Arts. 21 and 22
and contrary to the general rule of neutrality and the
modem practice developed by the nations. The attitude
of the United States in its reservation indicates its disavowal of the proposed innovation. In the proceedings
of the Convention that article was decided upon as a compromise measure. While all agreed on 21 and 22 as expressing existing law, Art. 23 was debated as an innovation, and from the standpoint of policy. These debates
disclose the fact that Great Britain and the United States
stood for the codification of existing international law as
finally embodied in 21 and 22; Germany also acquiesced,
proposing to add to the original draft of Art. 21 the words:
"for lack of provisions or fuel." This amendment was accepted. The German delegation evidently followed the
view of their government as now embodied in their present
Prize Code.
The adhesion of the United States to Arts. 21 and 22
was clearly no accidental compromise, but was done in
pursuance of the fixed policy of this country and that

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

of other nations, as shown by their definitely proclaimed
practice, at least since the middle of the nineteenth century. As pointed out in Oppenheim on International Law,
vol. 2, pp. 395-397, only by adhering to this practice can
neutrality be preserved.
After the termination of the Revolutionary War and
as a consequence of our Treaties with France of 1778,
numerous and protracted difficulties arose in regard to
the bringing by French vessels into American ports of
prizes. At that time it was permissible to give to one
power or another certain privileges available in wartime.
In discussing these treaties it must be remembered that
the evolution of the law of neutrality, which has taken
place since, especially as a consequence of these exclusive
privileges given by the United States to France, wholly
negatives this ancient view. The fundamental postulate
of neutrality to-day is complete impartiality between the
belligerents. This rule, embodied in the original statutes
of the United States, and since so firmly adhered to, is
not founded upon "bookish theoric" but is the resultant
of painful national experience. McMaster's History of
the People of the United States, vol. 2, pp. 103, 136;
Gray v. United States, 21 Ct. Clms. 340, 360, 384; Moore
on International Arbitrations, vol. 4, p. 3967.
The first act in the drama was Washington's proclamation of neutrality. The difficulty in maintaining it was
largely due to the embarrassing position in which the
United States was involved by having accorded to France
exclusive treaty privilegea, and especially the provision
allowing such use of its ports as was necessarily incompatible with impartiality. Id., pp. 3970-3977; The Betsey,
3 Dall. 6; The Vrow Christina Magdalena, Bee, 11, Fed.
Cas. No. 7216. The case of The Betsey, not only overruled all the decisions of the lower courts refusing jurisdiction in this class of cases, but established at that early
date (1794) the proposition that the courts of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

243 U. S.

States had power to enforce and vindicate international
law.' The French treaty clause was in vain invoked as
excluding the jurisdiction of the court, precisely as the
claimants here invoke the similar Prussian treaty clause.
The decision in the Beteey Case was followed on June 5,
1794, by the Neutrality Act, which, with some additions,
has remained the law up to the present time. This act
sought to meet the difficulties that had arisen out of the
great European struggle and had for its object the declaration and codification of the policy followed by Washington and Jefferson and based by them upon the law of
nations.
The construction placed by the executive upon the
clauses allowing prizes to be taken into American ports,
as set forth in Mr. Jefferson's letter to Gallatin, August 28,
1801, Moore's International Law Digest, vol. 7, § 1302,
pp. 935, 936, and again by Mr. Pickering, Secretary of
State, in 1796, id., 936, make it apparent that under the
interpretation placed upon the clause of the French
treaty, similar to that of the Prussian treaty, now in
question, little more was granted to the vessel and her
prize than would now be allowed under the law as.declared by Art. 21 of the Hague Convention XIII. It is
idle to endeavor now to interpret the Prussian treaty by
reference to the letters inter sese of the distinguished
Americans who were engaged in the effort to persuade
Prussia to make it.
War vessels with or without prizes might have been
absolutely excluded from our pprts; by treaties with some
nations we allowed them temporary shelter. We refused
to consider this temporary shelter as an asylum, and
the treaties, even where applicable, were thus interpreted
in a fashion not inconsistent with fair neutrality. Attorney General Wirt, 2 Ops' Atty. Gen. 86; Attorney
General Cushing, 7 Ops. Atty. Gen. 212; Clay, Secretary
of State, Moore's International Law Digest, vol. 7, p. 937;

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Mr. Seward to Peruvian Legation, id., p. 938; Attorney
General Cushing, 7 Ops. Atty. Gen. 122. For the socalled Bergen prizes, see Moore's International Law
Digest, § 1314; Act of March 28, 1806, 6 Stat.*61. The
prizes were brought into Bergen under stress of weather
and for necessary repairs. No precedent was created
except one against the right of asylum.'
There are certain other early treaties which show that,
where it was intended to give or secure any greater privileges than those clearly expressed in the Prussian treaty,
appropriate language was used. Treaty with Algiers,
1798, Arts. IX, X; Treaty with Algiers, 1816, Art. XVIII;
Treaty with The Netherlands, 1782, Art. V; Treaty with
Sweden, 1783, Arts. XVIII, XIX. See summary of
treaties in regard to prizes in neutral ports in Phillmore's
International Law, vol. 3, § 380.
The courts of admiralty of a neutral country have
jurisdiction of a suit by the owner of a prize which has
been brought into a port of the neutral, and may award
restitution when there has been a violation of neutrality
on the part of the captor, whether inherent in the capture, or prior or subsequent thereto. Palachi's Case,
1 Rolle, 175, 3 Bulstrode, 27; Lex Mercatoria (London,
1729), p. 179; Molloy's De Jure Maritimo, vol. 1, pp. 14,
15, 58; Laws of the Admiralty (London, 1767), vol. 1,
p. 219; The Betsey, 3 Dall. 6; The Santissima Trinidad,
1 Brock. 478, Fed. Cas. No. 2568; affirmed in 7 Wheat.
283; The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116; The Invincible, 1
Wheat. 238; The Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat. 52; The Estrella, 4 Wheat. 298; La Amistad de Rues, 5 Wheat. 385;
The Arrogante Barcelones, 7 Wheat. 496; and other cases.
Queen v. The Chesapeake, 1 Oldright (Nova Scotia), 797;
La Reine des Anges, Stewart's Admiralty Rep. (Nova
Scotia), 11; The Purissima Concepcion, 6 Rob. 45; The
Vrow Anna Catharine,5 Rob. 15; The Eliza Ann, 1 Dods.
244; The Diligentia, 1 Dods. 404; The Twee Gebroeders,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

243 U. S.

3 Rob. 161; The Anna, 5 Rob. 373; The Sir William Peel,
5 Wall. 517; The Florida, 101 U. S. 37.
In the case at bar the violation of neutrality was subsequent to the act of capture and was a deliberate attempt
to use an American port as a naval base for the safekeeping of the prize during the war. The time of the
violation of neutrality is immaterial; there has been a
violation and the prize has been voluntarily brought
within the jurisdiction of the American courts. The power
and duty to make restitution follow as a matter of course.
The Prussian treaties of 1799 and 1828 do not apply.
Examination of the French and English texts shows that
these and the contemporary treaties with Sweden, France
and England, apply only to prizes which are brought into
port by vessels of war. They constitute exceptions and
necessitate strict construction. They contemplate merely
a temporary stay for some particular necessity and do
not permit a neutral port of refuge to be made a port of
ultimate destination or of indefinite asylum. Opinion of
Secretary of State, March 2, 1916. The French text of
the Prussian Treaty of 1799 is free from the ambiguity
that appellants impute to the English. Appellants' historical review of the negotiations for the treaty actually
militates against their own contentions. The convoy of a
war vessel to protect its prizes was insisted upon as essential because, as the Prussian sovereign pointed out, some
of his principal ports were not fortified, and he therefore
could not protect a prize which came in for shelter without
a war vessel to defend it against- hostile attack.
The German ambassador expressly admitted in his
memorandum for the State Department that the Prussian
Treaty of 1799 "made it necessary that the prize was
brought into port by the capturing vessel," and contended
for a wider application in view of "the development of
modern cruiser warfare."
Complete title to a prize, whether neutral or belliger-

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

ent, does not fully vest in the captor until the prize has
been brought into one of the captor's .ports and duly condemned by a competent prize court of the captor's country. Until then the prize may be lost by recapture,
abandonment or violation of another nation's neutrality.
Prior to such condemnation the captor has merely a
right ad rem and no right in re; in other words, merely
that limited right which possession gives until by condemnation dominium or plenary title is acquired. Amos,
Roman Civil Law, pp. 157, 158. There is considerable
diversity among the early authorities on this question.
Grotius, Liber 3, c. 6, §*3, note 3; Bynkershoek's Treatise
on the Law of War, Du Ponceau's Translation, c. 5, p. 41;
Burlamaqui, Principles of Politic Law, Part 4, c. 7, §§ 1518; Richard Lee, Treatise of Captures in War, pp. 82, 96;
Goss v. Withers, 2 Burrow's Rep. 638; Assievedo v. Cambridge, 10 Mod. 77; March's New Cases, p. 110; Wooddeson's Lectures, vol. 2, p. 274; The Flad Oyen, 1 C. Rob. 135.
The American rule requires that the captured vessel
be brought within the jurisdiction of the captor's country
in order to divest the title of the original owners, and
that a sentence of condemnation be duly pronounced by
a competent court. Attorney General Lee, 1 Ops. Atty.
Gen. 78; Stewart v. United States, 1 Ct. Clms. 113, 119;
Manila Prize Cases, 188 U. S. 254, 260, 278. See also
Miller v. The Resolution, 2 Dall. 1; The Nassau, 4 Wall.
634, 641.

It seems clear from the language of The Adventure,
8 Cranch, 221, that, even assuming that the capture, of
itself, divested their property, leaving only a spes recuperandi,all the rights of the British owners were revived
the moment the Appam was brought by the prize-master
into our neutral waters.
Leading French, German and English commentaries
are in agreement that until condemnation the original

owner's rights are never finally extinguished but.merely

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for.Appellees.

243 U. S.

remain in abeyance. Bluntschli, International Law Codified, paragraphs 739, 740, 741, 860; Bonfils, Manuel de
Droit International Public (Paris, 1914), paragraphs 1416,
1420; Wheaton, International Law (Phillipson, 1916),
p. 581; Oppenheim, International Law, vol. 2, § 196;
Upton, Maritime Warfare and Prize (1861); Rev. Stats.,
§ 4652; Oakes v. United States, 30 Ct. Clms. 378; The
Star, 3 Wheat. 86; The Beaver, 3 C. Rob. 292; "The Emily
St. Pierre" and "The Experience," Dana's notes to
Wheaton, pp. 474, 475; U. S. Diplomatic Correspondence,
1862, pp. 75-148. See Pitt Cobbett, Leading Cases on
International Law (1913), pp. 204, 205.
In any event, as held in the case of The Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 355, the pendency of prize proceedings in a
foreign court cannot be set up against the jurisdiction of
our courts to deal with a res actually in their custody.
The case of The Mary Ford, 3 Dall. 188, is not a controlling authority. This decision was rendered in 1794, when
the whole law of prize was in a very unsettled condition.
The conclusion reached is entirely inconsistent with the
later decision in the case of The Adventure, supra.
The Appam is not a German public vessel or entitled
to the exemptions of a public vessel. An uncondemned
prize stands in a category by herself. She may, after
condemnation, be sold to a private purchaser and become
a private vessel under new ownership, or she may be appropriated to public uses, pacific or belligerent. She
may, in certain exceptional cases, be converted into a
public vessel even before condemnation. But to effect
this she must be regularly commissioned as such by some
competent authority. She may then become entitled to
the exemptions of a public vessel. The Exchange, 7.Cranch,
116. As to the case of The Farn, see Diplomatic Correspondence, European War, Department of State, No. 2,
pp. 139, 140. The Tuscaloosa was restored expressly on
the ground that she had been commissioned as a ship of

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

war, and converted into a tender to the Alabama. Semmes,
Memoirs of Service Afloat, pp. 739-743; Molloy, Treaties, &c., 1776-1909, vol. 1, p. 721.
Nothing whatever has been done to take the Appam
out of the category of 'prize, and convert her into a public
vessel, or devote her to public use. She would not, as a
German public vessel, bring several hundred prisoners to
the United States for the purpose of setting them free.
She could not bring them here to hold them as prisoners
in our waters without manifestly violating our neutrality,
as she in fact did in this respect, and the express prohibition of the American statutes. Rev. Stats., § 5286.
The neutrality regulations applicable to the Panama
Canal Zone, referred to by appellants, merely provide
that in passing through the Canal prizes shall be subject
to the same restrictions as war vessels. This does not
constitute a recognition of prizes as public vessels. Moreover, such use of the Canal is necessarily temporary.
The sending of a prize to a neutral port with a prize
crew insufficient to navigate her, and with intention to
lay her up, is equivalent to an abandonment and thereby
divests the captors' inchoate right. To hold a capture
merely by putting on board a prize-master, with or without a small crew, the prize-master must actually bring
the prize into a home port for condemnation. The Alexander, 8 Cranch, 169; Wilcocks v. Union Ins. Co., 2
Binney, 574, 578; Attorney General Grundy, 3 Ops.
Atty. Gen. 377.
Under the prize laws of the United States, the failure
to bring proceedings with due diligence in a competent
court for an adjudication of prize is in itself ground for
the release of the vessel. Rev. Stats., § 2645.
In like manner, the German Prize Code provides for
the bringing of proceedings for condemnation in due
season. Here the res is in the custody of our court, and
the pendency of proceedings in a German prize court is

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

mere brutum fulmen, under the decision in The Santissima
Trinidad,7 Wheat. 355.
Restitution to the owner is the appropriate and only
adequate remedy. The inquiry to be made by our courts
is whether the prize was brought in for permitted purposes, and, if so, whether she remains longer than her
necessities require. If she acts otherwise, then she is, in
the language of the Hague Convention, to be "released."
If released, she must necessarily revert to her owners,
since the temporary adverse possession of the captors is
thus removed. This, however, was no new invention of
the Hague Conference. Its roots go back at least to the
Edict of the States General of Holland of 1658, already
cited, which expressly provided that, in such event:
"The prize should be restored to the former owners
as though it had never been taken." Consolato del Mare,
Benedict's Admiralty, § 119. See Diplomatic Correspondence, European War, Department of State, No. 2,
p. 141. If internment were the only remedy, the captor's
chief purpose, of securing a place of safe-keeping for his
spoils, would be accomplished. Moreover, the German
Government has expressly disclaimed and objected to
internment in this case.
That restitution is made by court decree rather than
by executive action is the result of the historic development of our judicial and diplomatic precedents. The
remedies are concurrent; but for many years it has been
the policy of this government to leave such questions to
the courts rather than to dispose of them summarily by
executive action. (See Chief Justice Marshall's opinion;
in the Circuit Court in The Santissima Trinidad, supra.)
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are appeals from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Virginia, in two ad-

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

miralty cases. No. 650 was brought by the British &
African Steam Navigation Company, Limited, owner of
the British steamship, Appam, to recover possession of
that vessel. No. 722 was a suit by the master of the
Appam to recover possession of the cargo. In each of
the cases the decree was in favor of the libellant.
The facts are not in dispute and from them it appears:
That during the existence of the present war between
Great Britain and Germany, on the fifteenth day of
January, 1916, the steamship Appam was captured on
the high seas by the German cruiser, Moewe. The Appam
was a ship under the British flag, registered as an English
vessel, and is a modern cargo and passenger steamship
of 7800 tons burden. At the time of her capture she was
returning from the West Coast of Africa to Liverpool,
carrying a general cargo of cocoa beans, palm oil, kernels,
tin, maize, sixteen boxes of specie, and some other articles.
At the West African port she took on 170 passengers,
eight of whom were military prisoners of the English
Government. She had a crew of 160 or thereabouts,
and carried a three-pound gun at the stern. The Appam
was brought to by a shot across her bows from the Moewe,
when about a hundred yards away, and was boarded
without resistance by an armed crew from the Moewe.
This crew brought with them two bombs, one of which
was slung over the bow and the other over the stern of,
the Appam. An officer from the Moewe said to the captain of the Appam that he was sorry he had to take his
ship, asked him how many passengers he had, what
cargo, whether be had any specie, and how much coal.
When the shot was fired across the bows of the Appam,
the captain instructed thewireless operator not to touch
the wireless instrument, and'his officers not to let any
one touch the gun on board. The officers and crew of the
Appam, with the exception of the engine-room force,
thirty-five in number, and the second officer, were ordered

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

on board the Moewe. The captain, officers and crew of
the Appam were sent below, where they were held until
the evening of the seventeenth of January, when they
and about 150 others, officers and crews of certain vessels
previously sunk by the Moewe, were ordered back to the
Appam and kept there as prisoners. At the time of the
capture, the senior officer of the boarding party told the
chief engineer of the Appam he was now a member of
the German navy; if he did not obey orders his brains
would be blown out, but if he obeyed, not a hair of his
head should be touched. The Appam's officer was instructed to tell his staff the same thing, and if they did
not obey orders they would be brought to the German
officer and shot. Inquiries were made by the German
officer in command of the Appam as to revolutions of
the engines, the quantity of coal on hand and the coal
consumption for different speeds, and instructions were
given that steam be kept up handy, and afterwards the
engineer was directed to set the engines at the revolutions
required, and the ship got under way.
Lieutenant Berg, who was the German officer in command of the Appam after its capture, told the engineer
on the second morning that he was then in charge of the
ship, 4sked of him information as to fuel consumption,
and said that he expected the engineer to help him all he
could, and the more he did for him the better it would
be for everybody on the ship. The engineer said he
would, and did so. The engines were operated with a
bomb secured to the port main injector valve, and a
German sailor stationed alongside the bomb with a revolver. There was a guard below of four or five armed
Germans, who were relieved from time to time, but did
not interfere with the working of the ship. The German
officer, Lieutenant Berg, gave directions as to working
the engines, and was the only officer on board who wore
a uniform.

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

On the night of the capture, the specie in the specieroom was taken on board the Moewe. After Lieutenant
Berg took charge of the Appam, bombs were slung over
her bow and stern, one large bomb, said to contain about
two hundred pounds of explosive, was placed on the
bridge, and several smaller ones in the chart room. Lieutenant Berg informed the captain of the Appam, pointing
to one of the bombs, "That is a bomb; if there is any
trouble, mutiny, or attempt to take the ship, I have
orders to blow up the ship instantly." He also said,
"There are other bombs about the ship; I do not want to
use them, but I shall be compelled to if there is any
trouble." The bombs were kept in the positions stated
until the ship arrived at the Virginia Capes, when they
were removed. Lieutenant Berg, on reaching Hampton
Roads, asked the crew of the Appam to drop the anchor,
as he had not men to do it.
During the trip to the westward, the officers and crew
of the Appam were not allowed to see the ship's compass
to ascertain her course, and all lights were obscured during
the voyage. The German prisoners, with the exception of
two who went on board the Moewe, were armed and placed
over the passengers and crew of the Appam as a guard all
the way across. For two days after the capture, the
Appam remained in the vicinity of the Moewe, and then
was started westward. Her course for the first two or
three days was southwesterly, and afterwards westerly,
and was continued until her arrival at the Virginia Capes
on the thirty-first of January. The engine-room staff of
the Appam was on duty operating the vessel across to the
United States; the deck crew of the Appam kept the ship
clean, and the navigation was conducted entirely by the
Germans, the lookouts being mostly German prisoners.
At the time of the capture, the Appam was approximately distant 1,590 miles from Emden, the nearest
German port; from the nearest available port, namely,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Punchello, in the Madeiras, 130 miles; from Liverpool,
1,450 miles; and from Hampton Roads, 3,051 miles. The
Appam was found to be in first class order, sea-worthy,
with plenty of provisions, both when captured and at the
time of her arrival in Hampton Roads.
The order or commission delivered to Lieutenant Berg
by the commander of the Moewe is as follows:
"Information for the American Authorities. The bearer
of this, Lieutenant of the Naval Reserve Berg, is appointed
by me to the command of the captured English steamer
'Appam,' and has orders to bring this ship into the nearest- American harbor, and there to lay up. Kommando
S. M. H. Moewe. Count Zu Dohna, CruiserCaptainand
Commander. (Imperial Navy Stamp:) Kommando S.
M. H. Moewe."
Upon arrival in Hampton Roads, Lieutenant Berg re-ported his arrival to the Collector, and filed a copy of his
instructions to bring the Appam into the nearest American
port and there to lay up.
On February 2d, His Excellency, the German Ambassador, informed the State Department of the intention,
under alleged treaty rights, to stay in an American port
until further notice, 'and requested that the crew of the
Appam be detained in the United States for the remainder
of the war.
The prisoners brought in by the Appam were released
by order of the American Government.
On February 16th, and sixteen days after the arrival of
the Appam in Hampton Roads, the owner of the Appam
filed the libel in 'case No. 650, to which answer was filed
on March 3d. On March 7th, by leave of court, an
amended libel was filed, by which the libellant sought to
recover the Appam upon the claim that holding and detaining the vessel in American waters was in violation of
the law of nations and the laws of the United States and
of the neutrality of the United States. The answer of the

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

respondents to the amended libel alleged that the Appam
was brought in as a prize by a prize master, in reliance
upon the Treaty of 1799 between the United States and
Prussia; that by the general principles of international
law the prize master was entitled to bring his ship into
the neutral port under these circumstances, and that the

length of stay was not a matter for judicial determination;
and that proceedings had been instituted in a proper prize
court of competent jurisdiction in Germany for the condemnation of the Appam as a prize of war; and averred
that the American court had no jurisdiction.
The libel against the Appam's cargo was filed on
March 13th, 1916, and answer filed on March 31st. During the progress of the case, libellant moved the court to
sell a part of the cargo as perishable; on motion the court
appointed surveyors, -who examined the cargo and reported that the parts so designated as perishable should
be sold ; upon their report orders of sale were entered, under
which such perishable parts were sold, and the proceeds
of that sale, amounting to over $600,000, are now in the
registry of the court, and the unsold portions of the cargo
are now in the custody of the marshal of the Eastern
District of Virginia.
The argument in this case has taken wide range, and
orally and in printed briefs counsel have discussed many
questions which we do not consider necessary to decide in
determining the rights involved in these appeals.
From the facts which we have stated, we think the
decisive questions resolve themselves into three: First,
was the use of an American port, under the circumstances
shown, a breach of this Nation's neutrality under the
principles of international law? Second, was such use of
an American port justified by the existing treaties between the German Government and our own?

Third, was

there jurisdiction and right to condemn the Appam and
her cargo in a court of admiralty of the United States?

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court..

243 U. S.

It is familiar international law that the usual course
after the capture of the Appam would have been to take
her into a German port, where a prize court of that Nation
might have adjudicated her status, and, if it so determined,
condemned the vessel as a prize of wax. Instead of that,
the vessel was neither taken to a German port, nor to the
nearest port accessible of a neutral power, but was ordered
to, and did, proceed over a distance of more than three
thousand miles, with a view to laying up the captured ship
in an American port.
It was not the purpose to bring the vessel here within
the privileges universally recognized in inter national law,
i. e., for necessary fuel or provisions, or because of stress of
weather or necessity of repairs, and to leave as soon as the
cause of such entry was satisfied or removed. The purpose for which the Appam was brought to Hampton Roads,
and the character of the ship, are emphasized in the order
which we have quoted to take her to an American port
and there lay her up and in a note from His Excellency,
The German Ambassador, to the Secretary of State, in
which the right was claimed to keep the vessel in an Amer-'
ican port until further notice, (Diplomatic Correspondence with Belligerent Governments Relating to Neutral
Rights, aPAz Duties,*Department of State, European War
No.3, p. 331,) and a further communication from the
German Ambassador forwarding a memorandum of a
telegram from the German Government concerning the
Appam (Idem, p. 333), in which it was stated:
"Appam iknot an auxiliary cruiser but a prize. There-.
fore she must be dealt with according to Article 19 of
Prusso-American treaty of 1799. Article 21 of Hague
Convention concerning neutrality at sea is not applicable,
as this convention was not ratified by England and is
therefore not binding in present war according to Article 28. The above-mentioned Article 19 authorizes a
prize ship to remain in American ports as long as she

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pleases. Neither the ship nor the prize crew can therefore
be interned nor can there be question of turning the prize
over to English."
In view of these facts, and this attitude of the Imperial
Government of Germany, it is manifest that the Appam
was not brought here in any other character than as a
prize, captured at sea by a cruiser of the German navy,
and that the right to keep her here, as shown in the attitude of the German Government and in the answer to
the libel, was rested principally upon the PrussianAmerican Treaty of 1799.
The principles of international law recognized by this
Government, leaving the treaty aside, will not permit the
ports of the United States to be thus used by belligerents.
If such use were permitted, it would constitute of the
ports of a neutral country harbors of safety into which
prizes, captured by one of the belligerents, might be
safely brought and indefinitely kept.
From the beginning of its history this country has been
careful to maintain a neutral position between warring
governments, and not to allow the use of its ports in violation of the obligations of neutrality; nor to permit such
use 'beyond the necessities arising from the perils of the
seas or the necessities of such vessels as to sea-worthiness,
provisions and supplies. Such usage has the sanction of
international law, Dana's Note to Wheaton on International Law, 1866, 8th American Edition, § 391, and
accords with our own practice. Moore's Digest of International Law, vol. 7, 936, 937, 938.
A policy of neutrality between warring nations has
been maintained from 1793 to this time. In that year
President Washington firmly denied the use of our ports
to the French Minister for the fitting out of privateers to
destroy English commerce. This attitude led to the
enactment of the Neutrality Act of 1794, afterwards embodied in the Act of 1818, enacting a code of neutrality,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

which among other things inhibited the fitting out and
arming of vessels; the augmenting or increasing of the
force of armed vessels; or the setting on foot in our territory of military expeditions; and empowering the President to order foreign vessels of war to depart from our
ports and compelling them so to do when required by the
law of nations. Moore on International Arbitrations,
vol. 4, 3967 et seq.
This policy of the American Government was emphasized in its attitude at the Hague Conference of 1907.
Article 21 of the Hague Treaty provides:
"A prize may only be brought into a neutral port on
account of unseaworthiness, stress of weather, or want of
fuel or provisions.
"It must leave as soon as the circumstances which
justified its entry are at an end. If it does not, the neutral
Power must order it to leave at once; should it fail to obey,
the neutral Power must employ the means at its disposal
to release it with its officers and crew and to intern the
prize crew."
Article 22 provides:
"A neutral Power must, similarly, release a prize
brought into one of its ports under circumstances other
than those referred to in Article 21."
To these articles, adherence was given by Belgium,
France, Austria-Hungary, Germany, the United States,
and a number of other nations. They were not ratified
by the British Government. This Government refused
to adhere to Article 23, which provides:
"A neutral Power may allow prizes to enter its ports
and roadsteads, whether under convoy or not, when they
are brought there to be sequestrated pending the decision
of a Prize Court. It may have the prize taken to another
of its ports.
"If the prize is convoyed by a war-ship, the prize crew
may go on board the convoying ship.

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"If the prize is not under convoy, the prize crew are
left at liberty."
And in the proclamation of the convention the President
recited the resolution of the Senate adhering to it, subject
to the "reservation and exclusion of its Article 23 and with
the understanding that the last clause of Article 3 of the
said Convention implies the duty of a neutral power to
make the demand therein mentioned for the return of a
ship captured within the neutral jurisdiction and no longer
within that jurisdiction." 36 Stat., Pt. II, p. 2438.
While this treaty may not- be of binding obligation,
owing to lack of ratification, it is very,persuasive as showing the attitude of the American Government when the
question is one of international law; from which it appears
clearly that prizes could only be brought into our ports
upon general principles recognized in international law,
on account of unseaworthiness, stress of weather, o'r want
of fuel or provisions, and we refused to recognize the
principle that prizes might enter our ports and roadsteads,
whether under convoy or not, to be sequestrated pending
the *decisionof a prize court. From the history of the conference it appears that the reason for the attitude of the
American delegates in refusing to accept Article 23 was
that thereby a neutral might be involved in participation
in the war to the extent of giving asylum to a prize which
the belligerent might not be able to conduct to a home
port. See Scott on Peace Conferences, 1899-1907, vol. II,
p. 237 et seq.
Much stress is laid upon the failure of this Government
to proclaim that its ports were not open to the reception
of captured prizes, and it is argued that having failed to
interdict the entrance of prizes into our ports permission
to thus enter must be assumed. But whatever privilege
might arise from this circumstance it would not warrant
the attempted use of one of our ports as a place in which
to store prizes indefinitely, and certainly not where no

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

means of taking them out are shown except by the augmentation of her crew, which would be a clear violation
of established rules of neutrality.
As to the contention on behalf of the appellants that
Article XIX of the Treaty of 1799 justifies bringing in
and keeping the Appam in an American port, in the situation which we have outlined, it appears that in response
to a note from His Excellency, The German Ambassador,
making that contention, the American Secretary of State,
considering the treaty, announced a different conclusion
(Diplomatic Correspondence with Belligerent Governments, supra, p. 335 et seq.); and we think this view is
justified by a consideration of the terms of the treaty.
Article XIX of the Treaty of 1799, using the translation
adopted by the American State Department, reads as
follows.
"The vessels of war, public and private, of both parties,
shall carry (conduire) freely, wheresoever they please, the
vessels and effects taken (pris) from their enemies, Without being obliged to pay any duties, charges, or fees to
officers of admiralty, of the customs, or any others; nor
shall such prizes (prises) be arrested, searched, or put
under legal process, when they come to and enter .the
ports of the other party, but may freely be carried (conduites) out again at any time by their captors (le vaisseau
preneur) to the places expressed in their commissions,
which the commanding officer of such vessel (le dit vaisseau) shall be obliged to show. But conformably to the
treaties existing between the United States and Great
Britain, no vessel (vaisseau) that shall have made a prize
(prise) upon British subjects shall have a right to shelter
in the ports of the United States, but if (il est) forced
therein by tempests, or any other danger or accident of
the sea, they (il sera) shall be obliged to depart as soon
as possible."
(The provision concerning the treaties
between the United States and Great Britain is no longer

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in force, having been omitted by the Treaty of 1828. See
Compilation of Treaties in Force, 1904, pp. 641 and 646.)
We think an analysis of this article makes manifest
that the permission granted is to vessels of war and their
prizes, which are not to be arrested, searched, or put
under legal process, when they come into the ports of the
high contracting parties, to the end that they may be
freely carried out by their captors to the places expressed
in their commissions, which the commanding officer is
obliged to show. When the Appam came into the American harbor she was not in charge of a vessel of war of the
German Empire. She was a merchant vessel, captured
on the high seas and sent into the American port with
the- intention-of being kept there indefinitely, and without
any means of leaving that port for another as coitemplated in the treaty, and required to be shown in the
commission of the vessel bringing in the prize. Certainly
such use of a neutral port is very far from that contemplated by a treaty which made provision only for temporary asylum for certain purposes, and cannot be held
to imply an intention -to make of an American port a
harbor of refuge. for captured prizes of a belligerent government. We cannot avoid the conclusion that in thus
making use of an American port there was a clear breach
of the neutral rights of this Government, as recognized
under principles of international law governing the obligations of neutrals, and that such use of one of our ports
was in no wise sanctioned by the Treaty of 1799.
It remains to inquire whether there was jurisdiction
and authority in an admiralty court of the Unitea States,
under these circumstances, to order restoration to an
individual owner of the vessel and cargo.
The earliest authority upon this subject in the decisions of this court is found in the case of Glass v. The
Sloop Betsey, 3 Dall. 6, decided in 1794, wherein it appeared
that the commander of the French privateer, The Citizen

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Genet, captured as a prize on the high seas the sloop
Betsey and sent the vessel into Baltimore, where the owners
of the sloop and cargo filed a libel in the District Court
of Maryland, claiming restitution because the vessel belonged to subjects of the King of Sweden, a neutral power,
and the cargo was owned jointly by Swedes and Americans. The District Court denied jurisdiction, the Circuit
Court affirmed the decree, and an appeal was 5rosecuted
to this court. The unanimous opinion was announced by
Mr. Chief Justice Jay, holding that the District Courts
of the United States possessed the powers of, courts of
admiralty, whether sitting as an instance or as a prize
court, and sustained the jurisdiction of the District Court
of Maryland, and held that that court was competent to
inquire into and decide whether restitution should be
made to the complainants conformably to the laws of
nations and the treaties and laws of the United States.
The .question came again before this court in the case
of The Santissima Trinidad, decided in 1822, reported in
7 Wheat. .283. In that case it was held that an illegal
capture. would be ifivested with the character of a tort,
and that the original owners were entitled to restitution
when the property was brought within our jurisdiction.
The opinion was delivered- by Mr. Justice Story, and,
after a full discussion of the matter, the court held that
such an illegal capture, if brought into the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States, was subject to condemnation and restitution to the owners, and the learned
justice 'said:
"If, indeed, the question were entirely new, it would
deserve very grave consideration, whether a claim founded
on a violation of our neutral jurisdiction, could be asserted
by private persons, or in any other manner than a direct
intervention of the government itself. In the case of a
capture made within a neutral territorial jurisdiction, it is
well, settled, that as between the captors and the captured,

THE STEAMSHIP APPAM.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the question can never be litigated. It can arise only
upon a claim of the neutral sovereign, asserted in his own
courts, or the courts of the power having cognizance of
the capture itself for the purposes of prize. And by
analogy to this course of proceeding, the interposition of
our own government might seem fit to have been required,
before cognizance of the wrong could be taken by our
courts. But the practice from the beginning, in this
class of causes, a period of nearly thirty years, has been
uniformly the other way; and it is now too late to disturb
it. If any inconvenience should grow out of it, from
reasons of state policy or -executive discretion, it is competent for Congress to apply at its pleasure the proper
remedy." (p. 349.)
. . . Whatever may be the exemption of the public ship herself, and of her armament and munitions of war,
the prize property which she brings into our ports is liable
to the jurisdiction of our courts, for the purpose of examination and inquiry, and if a proper case be made out,
for restitution to those whose possession has been divested
by a violation of our neutrality; and if the goods are
our ports, by the express
landed from the public ship, in.
permission of our own government, that does not vary
the case, since it involves no pledge, that if illegally captured, they shall be exeippted from the ordinary operation of our laws." (p. 354.)
In the subsequent cases in this court this doctrine has
not been departed from. L'Invincible, 1 Wheat. 238, 258;
The Estrella, 4 Wheat. 298, 308-311; La Amistad de Rues,
5 Wheat. 385, 390.
It is insisted that these cases involve illegal captures at
sea, or violations of neutral obligation, not arising because of the use of a port by sending in a captured vessel
and keeping her there in violation of our rights as a neutral. But we are at a loss to see any difference in principle
between such cases and breaches of neutrality of the

OCTOBER TERM. 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 1U. S.

character here involved in undertaking to make of an
American port a depository of captured vessels with a
view to keeping them there indefinitely. Nor can we
consent to the insistence of counsel for appellant that the
Prize Court of the German Empire has exclusive jurisdiction to determine the fate of the Appam as lawful prize.
The vessel was in an American port and under our practice within the jurisdiction and possession of the District
Court which had assumed to determine the alleged violation of neutral rights, with power to dispose of the vessel
accordingly. The foreign tribunal under such circumstances could not oust the jurisdiction of the local court
and thereby defeat its judgment. The Santiseima Trinidad, supra, p. 355.
Were the rule otherwise than this court has frequently
declared it to be, our ports might be filled in case of a
general war such as is now in progress between the European countries, with captured prizes of one or the other
of the belligerents, in utter violation of the principles of
neutral obligation which have controlled this country
from the beginning.'
The violation of American neutrality is the basis of
jurisdiction, and the admiralty courts may order restitution for a violation of such neutrality. In each case the
jurisdiction and order rests upon the authority of the
courts of the United States to make restitution to private
owners for violations of neutrality where offending vessels
are within our jurisdiction, thus vindicating our rights and
obligations as a' neutral people.
It follows that the decree in each case must be
Affirmed.

