PENNINGTON v. FOURTH NATL.. BANK.
243 U. S.

269

Syllabus.

done in New York. On this proposition we express no
opinion.
On behalf of the plaintiff it was also urged that an
arrangement between counsel by which service of the
summons had been facilitated operated as a waiver of all
objections to the jurisdiction of the court. We find this
contention to be unfounded.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed and the
cause remanded to that court with directions to dismiss
it for want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.

PENNINGTON v. FOURTH NATIONAL BANK OF
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
ERROR-TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 147.

Argued January 26, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

The power of the States to seize tangible and intangible property and
apply it to satisfy the obligations of absent owners is not obstructed
by the Federal Constitution.
The power is the same whether the obligation soughf to be enforced
be admitted or contested, liquidated or unliquidated, inchoate or
mature.
The only essentials to its exercise are the presence of the res, its seizure
at the commencement of proceedings, and the opportunity of the
owner to be heard.
Where these essentials exist, a decree for alimony will be valid under
the same circumstances and to the same extent as a judgment on a
debt, i. e., valid as a charge upon the property seized. So held,
where the property was the divorced husband's bank account.
Property not subject to attachment at la-- may be reached in equity;
an injunction entered at the commencement of proceedings for divorce and alimony may operate as a seizure, in the nature of a garnishment, of defendant's account in bank.
92 Ohio St., 517, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Guy W. Mallon for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. S. Little, with whom Mr. C. B. Wilby was on
the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRAiNEIs delivered the opinion of the
court.
Mrs. Pennington obtained in a state court of Ohio a
decree of divorce which is admitted to be valid. In the
same proceeding she sought alimony; and in order to
ensure its payment joined as a defendant the Fourth National Bank of Cincinnati in which her husband had a deposit account. When the suit was filed the court entered
a preliminary order enjoining the bank from paying out
any part of the deposit. Under later orders of the court
the bank made payments from it to the wife. Finally
it was perpetually enjoined from making any payment
to the husband and ordered to pay the balance to the wife,
which it did. The husband then presented to the bank
a check for the full amount of the deposit, asserting that
the court's orders deprived him of his property without
due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, and were void, since he was a non-resident of Ohio,
had not been personally served with process within the
State, had not voluntarily appeared in the suit, and had
been served by publication only, all of wlich the bank
knew. Payment of the check was refused. Thereupon
Pennington brought, in another state Court of Ohio, an independent action against the bank for the amount. Judgment being rendered f6r the-bank, he took the case by writ
of error to the Court of Appeals for Hamilton County,
and from there to the Supreme Court of Ohio. Both these
courts affirmed the judgment below. Then the case was

PENNINGTON v. FOURTH NATL. .BANK.
243 U. S.

271

Opinio of the Court.

brought to this court for review, Pennington still claiming
that his constitutional rights had been violated.
The Fourteenth Amendment did not, in guaranteeing
due process of law, abridge the jurisdiction which a State
possessed over property within its borders, regardless of
the residence or presence of the owner. That jurisdiction
extends alike to tangible and to intangible property.
Indebtedness due from a resident to. a non-resident-of
which bank deposits are an example-is property within
the State. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
,Sturm, 174 U. S. 710. It is, indeed, the species of property
which courts of the several States have most frequently
applied in satisfaction of the obligations of absqnt debtors.
Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S. 215. Substituted service on a
non-resident by publication furnishes no legal basis for a
judgment in personam. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714.
But garnishment or foreign attachment is a proceeding
quasi in rem. Freeman v. Alderson, 119 U. S. 185, 187.
The thing belonging to the absent defendant is seized and
applied to the satisfaction of his obligation. The Federal
Constitution presents no obstacle to the full exercise of
this power.
. It is asserted that these settled principles of law cannot
be applied to enforce the obligation of an absent husband
to pay alimony, without violating the constitutional guaranty of due process of law. The main ground for the
contention is this: In ordinary garnishment proceedings
the obligation enforced is a debt existing at the commencement of the action, whereas the obligation to pay alimony
arises only as a result of the suit. The distinction is, in
this connection, without legal significance. The power
of the State to proceed against the property of an absent
defendant is the same whether the obligation sought to be
enforced is an admitted indebtedness or a contested claim.
It is the same whether the claim is liquidated or is unliquidated, like a claim for damages in contract or in tort.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

It is likewise immaterial that the claim is at the commencement of the suit inchoate, to be perfected only by time or
the action of the court. The only essentials to the exercise
of the State's power are presence of the res within its borders, its seizure at the commencement of proceedings, and
the opportunity of the owner to be heard. Where these
essentials exist a decree for alimony against an absent
defendant will be valid under the same circumstances and
to the same extent as if the judgment were on a debtthat is, it will be valid not in personam, but as a charge
to be satisfied out of the property seized.'
The objection that this proceeding was void, because
there was no seizure of the res at the commencement of the
suit, is also unfounded. The injunction which issued
against the bank was as effective a seizure as the customary garnishment or taking on trustee process. Such equitable process is frequently resorted to in order to reach and
apply property which cannot be attached at law.'
Affirmed.
Enforcement of allowance of alimony from property of absent defendant seized at .the commencement of the suit by attachment or
similar process. Hanscom v. Hanscom, 6 Colo. App. 97; Thurston v.
Thurston, 58 Minn. 279; Wood v. Price, 79 N. J. Eq. 1, 9-10. See
Bailey v. Bailey, 127 N. Car. 474; Twing v. O'Meara, 59 Iowa, 326,
331. Cf. Bunnell v. Bunnell, 25 Fed. Rep. 214, 218.
The wife's inchoate right to alimony makes her a creditor of the
husband under the statutes against fraudulent c6nveyances: Livermore v. Boutelle, 11 Gray, 217, 220; Thurston v. Thurston, 58 Minn.
279; Murray v. Murray, 115 Cal. 266, 274; Hinds v. Hinds, 80 Ala.
225, 227.'
2 An injunction issued against a resident debtor of. a non-resident
defendant is a sufficient seizure of the defendant's property to give
jurisdiction. Bragg v. Gaynor, 85 Wis. 468, 487. See Murray v. Murray, 115 Cal. 266, 276. See Tyler v. Judges of the Court of Registration,
175 Mass. 71, 77.

