OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

in the light of its own and other decisions, and the holding
of the court did not, in our opinion, involve the denial
of a federal right such as would make that ruling reviewable here.
We think the federal questions involved were correctly
decided, and affirm the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma.
Affirmed.

BAKER ET AL. v. SCHOFIELD, RECEIVER OF THE
MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK OF SEATTLE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 133.

Submitted January 15, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

The rule that concurrent findings of fact by two lower courts will not
be disturbed unless clearly wrong is here applied in support of findings of fraud and breach of fiduciary duty resulting in a trust.
Defendant, as receiver of a national bank, contracted on its behalf,
with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, for the purchase .of certain realty, used some of the bank's money in payments
on the price, and, under apparent authority from the court, sold
and assigned the contract for cash paid the bank. The assignee
acted secretly for the defendant in taking the contract, and thereafter assigned it secretly to him as an individual. Defendant resigned as receiver, and subsequently the contract was fully performed and the real property became vested in a corporation whose
shares for the most part were issued to the defendant. In a suit
brought by his successor to regain the property for the bank, Held:
(1) That the transaction was a gross breach of defendant's duty as
receiver; (2) That he was estopped to claim that the purchase of
the property was beyond the powers of the bank, Case v. Kelly,
133 U. S. 21, distinguished; (3) That delay of the suit for sixteen
years after the making of the contract and fourteen years after defendant's resignation as receiver was not laches, in view of the find-

BAKER v. SCHOFIELD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing that his successors in the receivership had no knowledge or
equivalent notice of the fraud.
The seven year statute of limitations of Washington, Remington &
Ballinger's Ann. Codes and Stats., ยง 789, does not apply when the
claim of title accompanying possession is not made in good faith.
221 Fed. Rep. 322, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. B. S. Grosscup and Mr. Corwin S. Shank for appellants.
Mr. FrederickBausman, Mr. R. P. Oldham and Mr. R. C.
Goodale for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action by John W. Schofield, as receiver of
the Merchants' National Bank of Seattle, Washington,
insolvent since 1895, against Charles H. Baker, receiver
of the bank from 1895 to 1899, and others, seeking a decree
declaring the defendants to be holders of certain real
property in Seattle in trust for the plaintiff, and asking a
conveyance thereof to the plaintiff.
The property in controversy is block' 430 of Seattle
Tide Lands, a tract of some twelve acres, and the leasehold of the harbor area lying in front of that block. In
conformity 'with the provisions of the state law, the
Merchants' National Bank had, prior to its failure, made
application to purchase these lands. After the failure
and the appointment of Charles H. Baker, receiver, this
application was accepted by the State Board of Land
Commissioners, and upon January 12, 1897, a contract
was entered into between the State of Washington and
the bank, through the receiver, by which the State agreed
to sell and the bank to purchase block 430 of Seattle Tide
Lands for $1488, payable in ten annual installments, sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

ject to all liens for filling, and all taxes and assessments
that might be levied or assessed on the land, and with a
forfeiture clause in case the bank should fail to pay any
of the amounts, either principal, interest, taxes or assessments, when the same should become due and for six
months thereafter. Permission to make this contract was
obtained by the receiver from the Comptroller of the
Currency, and thereafter partial payments were made
upon the contract.
Upon October 6, 1897, by order of the United States
Circuit Court upon the receiver's petition to that effect,
he was authorized to sell at private sale certain doubtful
personal assets of the defunct bank, and thereafter, Baker,
as receiver, assigned to S. G. Simpson the contract above
mentioned for the consideration of $198.80, the transfer
being approved by the Commissioner of Public Lands.
The assignment authorized the State of Washington
to receive from Simpson, or his assigns, the performance
of all covenants and agreements specified in the contract
to be performed by the bank, and upon such performance
to execute to him a patent for such tide land. By virtue
of the ownership by Simpson of the contract to purchase
tide lands block No. 430, he became entitled, under the
laws of the State of Washington, to the preference right
to lease certain harbor area adjacent and appurtenant to
block No. 430. Upon the purchase by Simpson of the
contract to purchase the tide lands, there was issued to
him by the State of Washington a certain lease, designated
"Harbor Lease No. 181," covering the harbor area appurtenant to the block.
In March, 1899, the contract between the bank and the
State of Washington for the purchase of block No. 430,
together with the harbor lease, was transferred by Simpson to Baker in his personal capacity, the record title
continuing in the name of Simpson. On August 11, 1905,
Simpson, acting for and on behalf of Baker, assigned the

BAKER v. SCHOFIELD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contract for the purchase of block No. 430, together with
harbor lease No. 181, to one Norton, the consideration
named being one dollar. This assignment contained the
same authorization as to the patent to be issued by the
State as was contained in the assignment to Simpson.
On October 16, 1905, the State of Washington issued to
Norton a patent covering block No. 430, with the exception of a strip of land, thirty feet wide, which had been
granted to a railroad company. In August, 1907, there
was organized under the laws of the State of Washington
the Seattle Water Front Realty Company. Upon incorporation of this company, Norton conveyed to it
block No. 430, together with harbor lease No. 181, in
payment for the issue of its capital stock of $250,000.
About ninety-five per cent. of the stock was issued to
Baker or to others who held for him.
In April, 1899, and a month after receiving the assignment from Simpson, Baker resigned as receiver; whereupon
A. W. Frater was appointed receiver. On February 12,
1913, Frater resigned, and the present plaintiff was appointed receiver in his stead, and this suit was immediately
begun.
. Under this state of facts, the District Court entered
a decree adjudging that the assignment by Baker to Simpson was fraudulent and was made for the sole use and
benefit of Baker, and that the assignment of the contract
to the defendant Norton by Simpson and the conveyance
of Norton to the Seattle Water Front Realty Company
were null and void. The decree provided that the Realty
Company should execute and deliver to the clerk of the
court below for the benefit of the plaintiff, as receiver, a
deed covering its interest in block No. 430 and the assignment of harbor lease No. 181, and the receiver was directed
to pay to the clerk of the court for the Realty Company
the sum of $10,977.13, being the amount of the payment,
with interest, made by the defendants to the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Washington under the contract for the purchase of block
No. 430, and upon the harbor lease, and for taxes. 212
Fed. Rep. 504. Upon appeal, this decree was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 221
Fed. Rep. 322.
Both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals found that the sale from Baker to Simpson was only
colorable, and that Simpson purchased the property for
Baker. Our consideration of the evidence must be governed by the well-settled rule in this court that, when two
courts have reached the same conclusion on a question of
fact, their finding will not be disturbed unless it is clear
that their conclusion was erroneous. Stuart v. Hayden,
169 U. S. 1, 14; Baker v. Cummings, 169 U. S. 189, 198;
Towson v. Moore, 173 U. S. 17, 24; Hy-yu-tse-mil-kin v.
Smith, 194 U. S. 401, 412; Dun v. Lumbermen's Credit
Association, 209 U. S.20, 23; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Railroad Commission of Louisiana, 232 U. S. 338, 339;
Washington Securities Company v. United States, 234 U. S.
76, 78; Gilson v. United States, 234 U. S. 380, 383. The
concurrent decisions of the courts upon the establishment
of a trust as a question of fact will be followed unless shown
to be clearly erroneous. Brainardv. Buck, 184 U. S.99.
The .various defenses urged in the court below and involved in the points argued in this court for the appellants
must be considered in view of this finding of fact as to the
nature of the transfer by Baker, as receiver, to Simpson.
That the secret arrangement between Baker and Simpson was fraudulent and a gross breach of the receiver's duty
is too plain to require detailed consideration. Michoud v.
Girod, 4 How. 503, 555; Magruder v. Drury, 235 U. S.106,
119.
It is urged that the contract of purchase was ultra vires
the corporate powers of the bank. The Court of Appeals,
in deciding this point, referred to the decisions of this court
which have held that objections to the passing of title in

BAKER v. SCHOFIELD.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

conveyances to National Banks, although made in excess
of any legal.authority given the bank by the law, can only
be made by the Government in a direct proceeding, and
will not defeat the vesting of the title in the bank when it
takes a conveyance in good faith for a valuable consideration. National Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. 'S. 621; National
Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99; Reynolds v. Crawfordsville
First National Bank, 112 U. S. 405; Thompson v. Saint
Nicholas National Bank, 146 U. S. 240; Schuyler National
Bank v. Gadsden, 191 U. S. 451.
But without questioning the correctness of this conclusion, we are of opinion that the authority of the bank to
make this purchase, or of the Comptroller to approve of it,
or of the court to order the sale of this asset upon the
petition of Baker, as receiver, need not necessarily be considered -in determining the right to recover in this proceeding.
Upon the plainest principles governing the relation of
the parties here, in-view of the finding that there was a
secret trust in Baker's favor in the transfer to Simpson,
Baker could not be heard to question the authority by
which he acquired the property ostensibly for the benefit
of his trust, but in reality for himself in breach of his trust.
To sanction this would be to permit Baker to take advantage of his own wrong. It is not for him to say that he
can acquire title in fraud of his trust because the bank
could not legally acquire it, or the Comptroller apprave
or the court authorize, its sale. As the facts are found,
Baker assumed to act upon the understanding that the
bank owned the contract of purchase and under an order
invoked by him he undertook to sell it for the benefit of
the trust, but in reality conveyed it to one who secretly
held it for him. Under such circumstances, the trustee
can take nothing by his wrongful act and can be coitpelled to restore the property to the authorized representative of the trust estate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Plaintiff relies greatly upon Case v. Kelly, 133 U. S. 21,
where certain officers of a railroad had procured conveyances of lands intended to be used in the construction of
the road and had taken title to themselves personally, and
the railroad was seeking to recover the lands although
forbidden by its charter to take and hold title to such
lands. In this case, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the
court said:
"We need not stop here to inquire whether this company can hold title to lands, which it is impliedly forbidden
to do by its charter, because the case before us is not one
in which the title to the lands in question has ever been
vested in the railroad company, or attempted to be so
vested. The railroad company is plaintiff in this action,
and is seeking to obtain the title to such lands. It has
no authority by the statute to receive such title and to
own such lands, and the question here is, not whether the
courts would deprive it of such lands if they had been
conveyed to it, but whether they will aid it to violate the
law and obtain a title which it has no power to hold. We
think the questions are very different ones, and that while
a court might hesitate to declare the title to lands received
already, and in the possession and ownership of the company, void on the principle that they had no authority to
take such lands, it is very clear that it will not make itself
the active agent in behalf of the company in violating the
law and enabling the company to do that which the law
forbids."
But the present case is not sQ. Here the State has
parted with its title, and made the contract to convey to
the bank at the instance of the receiver who now seeks to
hold the title for his own benefit in breach of his trust.
As to the defense of laches, both courts below found that
the facts show entire want of knowledge on the part of
the present plaintiff or his predecessor in office of the
secret arrangement by which Baker acquired the title to

STAATS CO. v. SECURITY TRUST & SAV'GS BANK. 121
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

the contract of purchase. Until knowledge of this fraudulent transaction, or facts equivalent thereto, was brought
home to those authorized to act, there could be no laches
in the failure to prosecute the suit.
Nor do we find merit in the contention that the sevenyear statute of limitations (Remington & Ballinger's
Annotated Codes and Statutes of Washington, ยง 789), in
favor of persons in the actual and notorious possession of
lands under claim of title in good faith, has any application here. Under the facts found Baker does not come
within the class' protected by this statute.
Other points are urged but it is enough to say that we
find no error in the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and it is
Affirmed.

WILLIAM R. STAATS COMPANY ET AL. v. SECURITY TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT..
No. 608.

Motion to dismiss. Submitted January 10, 1917.-Decided
March 6, 1917.

A suit brought by a trustee in bankruptcy under ยง 60b of. the Bankruptcy Act to set aside an unlawful preference is a controversy
arising in a bankruptcy proceeding.'
In such. controversies, judgments and. decrees of the Circuit Courts of
Appeals which might otherwise have come within the general appellate powers of this court as defined by the Judicial Code are, by
the Act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat. 804, made final, and this court
may review them only by certiorari.
Appeal to review 233 'Fed. Rpm,- 514. dismissed.

The case is stated in the opinion.

