OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the United States.

243 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. WALLER ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 697.

Argued March 14, 15, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.

By force of the Clapp Amendment of 1906-1907, chaps. 3504, 2285,
34 Stat. 353, 1034, lands in the White Earth Reservation allotted
and patented in trust to an adult mixed-blood Indian belong to him
with all the rights and incidents of full ownership by persons of full
capacity, including the right of alienation; and when he conveys
them the United States cannot maintain for his benefit a suit to
annul the deed upon the ground that it was procured by fraud.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for the United
States:
The preexisting national guardianship over mixedblood Indians of -the White Earth Reservation was not
terminated by the Clapp Amendment.
Only those mixed bloods who actually lived the Indian
tribal life were recognized as members of the tribe. Treaty
of August 2, 1847, 9 Stat. 904, 905; Treaty of March 19,
1867, 16 Stat. 719, 720. The Treaty of 1867 treated full
bloods and mixed bloods alike as dependent Indians.
Neither the general allotment act of February 8, 1887,
24 Stat. 388, nor the Act of January 14, 1889, 25 Stat.
642, made any distinction between the two, and the Act
of April 28, 1904,. 33 Stat. 539, preserved the same equality
of treatment.
This status was not changed by the Clapp Amendment.
The only distinction made therein was in the tenure of
the titles to their allotments. In the Indian appropriation
acts since 1889, including the Act of 1906 which carries
the Clapp Amendment, Congress has'recognized the duty
of protection owing to both full bloods and mixed bloods

UNITED STATES v. WALLER.
243 U. S.

'Argument for the Ufnited States.

as dependent Indians. Those acts show that the tribal
relation and dependent Condition of incompetent mixed
bloods were not intended to be disturbed by the Clapp
Amendment; and in expending the funds appropriated
for their relief and civilization the Interior Department
has followed the manifest intent of Congress not to discriminate because of blood. See Reports of Commissioner
of Indian Affairs, 1912, 1915.
The national guardianship is not affected by the vesting
by the Clapp Amendment of the fee simple titles. The
grant of citizenship to Indians or their subjection to state
laws is not incompatible with a continuance of such guardianship. Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286,
308; Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413, 437; United
States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28, 39, 47; United States v.
Pelican, 232 U. S. 442, 450; Perrin v. United States, 232
U. S. 478, 481; United States v. Noble, 237 U. S. 74, 79;
United States v. Nice, 241 U. S. 591, 598-601. These decisions recognize the power of Congress to determine
when and how the national guardianship shall be terminated, but so long as the Indians are maintained in a condition of pupilage or dependency it cannot be said that
Congress, by the mere grant of unrestricted title, intended
to emancipate them. The cases cited supra were not
grounded on the fact that the Indians were not vested
with such titles in fee. The United States owes to dependent Indians a "duty of protection," and that duty
is not to be measured by property interests. Heckman v.
United States, supra; 'United States v. Nice, supra. The
mere grant of unrestricted title in fee to helpless Indians
does not of itself satisfy the duty.
The Heff Case, 197 U. S. 488, was founded upon a misconception of the will of Congress respecting the emancipating of allotted Indians. It was overruled by United
States v. Nice, supra, but before this its effect was nullified
by the Act of May 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 182, amending ยง 6

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the United States.

243 U. S.

of the general allotment act. The Clapp Amendment,
enacted shortly thereafter, contains no indication of an
intention to repeal the prior act as to mixed-blood Chippewas. It passed fee simple title to 'trust allotments held
by certain tribal Indians regardless of their competency
by declaring that trust deeds "heretofore or hereafter
issued to them" should have that effect. The inclusion.
of trust instruments "hereafter" to be issued could only
have come from a desire to grant full title without granting
*to incompetents the citizenship which would come under
the Act of 1906 by allowing a patent in fee.
The clause "or such mixed bloods upon application
shall be entitled to receive a patent in. fee simple" is not
an- absolute direction to issue such patents. Under it
adult mixed bloods have the option to apply for citizenship and subjection to state laws (Act of May 8, 1906,
supra), or to remain as tribal Indians subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States (ibid.). The clause
defining the trust allotments to which fee titles passed to
be those "heretofore or hereafter" held by adult mixed
bloods is utterly inconsistent with any intention to terminate the guardianship. As no transfer could theretofore
have been made, the word "heretofore" referred to allotments of deceased Indians, and the intention was to pass
fee title to their heirs. Congress surely did not intend to
emancipate such decedents nunc pro tunc or emancipate
from federal guardianship all full bloods, minors, or tribal
relatives on other Chippewa reservations, who might inherit such allotments. The policy of emancipating individual tribal Indians when they have become and are
found capable of managing their own affairs has long been
settled, and frequently stated in acts of Congress. See
Acts of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 636, 639; March 2, 1907,
34 Stat. 1221; May 18, 1916, 39 Stat. 123, 128. The
Clapp Amendment purporting to do no more than pass
fee title, cannot be held to involve a finding that all

UNITED STATES v. WALLER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mixed bloods are competent. Consistently with its own
language, with other parts of the same act, and every
annual Indian act since, mixed bloods were and are treated
as dependent Indians, with full bloods.
The capacity of the United States to sue for the protection of its Indian wards exists in every justiciable case
of wrong suffered by them. Uhited States v. Kagama, 118
U. S. 375, 384; United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432,
437, 444; Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413, 437,
441; United States v. Noble, 237 U. S. 74, 79; United States
v. Nice, 241 U. S. 591, 597; United States v. Gray, 201
Fed. Rep. 291, 293; United States v. Fitzgerald, 201 Fed.
Rep. 295, 296. These decisions recognize the right of the
United States to sue on behalf of dependent Indians in
fulfillment of its obligations springing from its peculiar
relation to them.
It is no answer to say that the Indians themselves have
a right to sue for the relief to which they are entitled. The
same conditions of helpless dependency which operated
to deprive them of their property would likewise preclude
them from undertaking the litigation necessary to obtain
relief. Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413, 438;
United States v. Gray, 201 Fed. Rep. 291, 294.
Legislation affecting the Indians is to be construed in
their interest, Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S.665, 675; United
States v. Nice, 241 U. S.591, 599; a construction of the
Clapp Amendment which would deny all relief to these
Indians would not be in their interest but in the interest
of unscrupulous speculators. United States v. Thurston
County, 143 Fed. Rep. 287, 289.
Mr. Marshall A. Spooner for Waller et al.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here upon a certificate from the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, from which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

appears that the United States brought a suit in the District Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota for the purpose of cancelling and annulling a
warranty timber deed from Ah-be-daun-ah-quod and
Ah-sum, Indian allottees on the White Earth Reservation
in Minnesota, to Manie S. Wailer, dated November 4,
1907, and a certain warranty deed from the same Indians
to L. S. Waller, dated January 6, 1908. The District
Court dismissed the bill on the ground that the plaintiff
had no capacity to maintain the suit and upon a further
ground that the court had no jurisdiction to hear and
consider the same.
The Court of Appeals certifies the bill upon which suit
was brought in the District Court, wherein it is alleged
that the United States brought the action upon behalf of
Ah-be-daun-ah-quod and Ah-sum, Indian allottees in the
White Earth Reservation in Minnesota. The acts of
Congress under which the allotments were made to the
Indians named are set forth, and it is averred that these
acts provided that the lands in question should be held in
trust by the United States for a period of twenty-five
years; that the Indians for whom the suit was brought
were Chippewa Indians of the White Earth Reservation,
residing on the reservation, and were husband and wife
and adult mixed-blood Indians.
It is averred that since the establishment of the White
Earth Reservation the United States, in pursuance of its
treaties and agreements with the tribes and bands of Chippewa Indians in the State of Minnesota, and in pursuance
of its laws, has had and exercised through the Department
of the Interior and the Office of Indian Affairs the function
of guardian, protecting and defending said tribes and
bands and the individual members thereof in the enjoyment and possession of their property rights. That before
the commission of the acts of the defendants complained
of there were duly allotted to Ah-be-daun-ah-quod and

TJNtTED STATES v. WALLER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ah-sum certain tracts of land in the White Earth Reservation, which are described.
That afterwards, in December, 1907, the defendant,
Lucky S. Waller, negotiating with these two Indians for
the purchase of a portion of the timber upon their allotments, paid to them $50 as partial payment for such timber, and caused them to sign a certain paper, produced
by him, by placing their thumb marks thereon. That as
an inducement to procuring the execution of this paper,
Waller falsely and fraudulently stated that it was merely
a receipt for the payment. That neither Indian could
read or write, and each was obliged to rely on Waller for
understanding and knowledge of the contents of the
instrument, and that so relying upon him and upon his
false statements, they believed the instrument to be but
a receipt for the money paid.
That in January, 1908, a further payment of $75 was
made by Waller to the two Indians, ana another paper
executed by them under similar circumstances and representations. That in June, 1910, and December, 1911,
sums of $10 were paid by Waller to the Indians; that such
sums aggregating $145, were all paid with the understanding and belief on the part of the Indians that they were
part of the purchase price of a part of the timber upon the
lands; and that no other or further moneys have been paid
by Waller to the Indians.
That in December, 1911, the Indians for the first time
learned, and plaintiff was thereafter advised, that the
land records in the offices of the registers of deeds of Mahnomen and Clearwater counties, Minnesota, showed that
there had been filed for record in said offices, respectively,
two instruments in writing; one, an instrument purporting
to be a warranty timber deed from Ah-be-daun-ah-quod
and Ah-sum to Mamie S. Waller, dated November 4, 1907,
reciting the consideration for the property therein conveyed to be $500, and purporting to convey the timber

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

upon the lands patented to the Indians with the exception
of one parcel, and the other an instrument purporting to
be a warranty deed frorp Ah-be-daun-ah-quod and Ahsum to L. S. Waller, dated January 6, 1908, reciting the
consideration paid to be $200, and purporting to convey
all of the lands patented.
That the instruments so recorded were the instruments
executed by the Indians, by their thumb marks in the
custom of Indians unable to read or write, and that the
instruments which the Indians executed in December,
1907, and January, 1908, were not in truth and in fact the
receipts which the defendant Waller falsely and fraudulently represented them to b , but Were the instruments so
recorded, which the Indians signed in ignorance of their
contents, nature and effect, and in reliance upon the false
and fraudulent representations in regard thereto made
by the defendant Waller, all of which was well known to
the defendant.
That Mamie S. Waller is the wife of defendant Lucky
S. Waller, and the person mentioned as the grantee in
the timber deed; that she gave no consideration for the
timber deed or the property purporting to be conveyed
thereby; that the deed was caused to be taken in her name
as grantee for the mutual benefit of the defendants; that
she pretends to have and claims the title to the property
therein described by virtue of said timber deed, and
thereby seeks to avail herself of the benefit of the fraud
perpetrated in securing the timber deed from the two Indians.
That the Indians never had any negotiations with either
of the defendants directly or indirectly as to the sale of
the lands or of any timber thereon or in any respect other
than as set forth in the bill; that they never intended to
sell the lands and never did sell them or any part thereof;
and that they never knowingly signed or executed any
instrument conveying or in any manner 4lienating the

UNITED STATES v. WALLER.
243 U. S.

459

Opinion of the Court.

lands or any part thereof or interests or rights therein, or
any timber thereon. That the instruments which were
executed and recorded had and have the apparent legal
effect of vesting the title to the lands and the timber
thereon in the defendants, and of divesting the Indian5
of whatever right, title and interest in and to said lands
and timber were intended and provided for them by the
laws of the. United States. That the sum of $145.00 paid
by Waller to the Indians is grossly inadequate and disproportionate to the value of the lands and of the timber
thereupon, and that the value of the lands is not less than
$2,500.00 and of the timber riot less than $2,000.00.
The prayer of the bill is for surrender and cancellation
of the warranty timber deed and the warranty deed for
the lands.
The case was appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit, which court has certified to this
court the following question: Has the United States capacity to maintain the suit in question on behalf of the Indians named?
The answer to the question propounded depends upon a
consideration of the acts 'of Congress relating to these
Indians. The controlling act is the so-called Clapp
Amendment of June 21, 1906, 34 Stat. 325, 353; March 1j
1907, 34 Stat. 1015, 1034.
Before dealing with its interpretation, it is necessary
to have in mind certain matters which are well settled
by the previous decisions of this court. The tribal Indians
are wards of the Government, and as such under its guardianship. It rests with Congress to determine the time and
extent of emancipation. Conferring citizenship is not
inconsistent with the continuation of such guardianship,
for it has been held that even after the Indians have been
made citizens the relation of guardian and ward for some
purposes may continue. On the other hand, Congress may
relieve the Indians from such guardianship and control,

.460

OCTO1ER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

in whole or in part, and may, if it sees fit, clothe them with
full rights and responsibilities concerning their property
or give to them a partial emancipation if it thinks that
course better for their protection. United States v. Nice,
241 U. S. 591, 598, and cases cited.
To comprehend what Congress intended to accomplish
by the act in question, it is necessary to have in view the
previous legislation upon this subject. Its history was
given in United States v. First National Bank, 234 U. S.
245, and may be briefly summarized here;
By the' treaty of March 19, 1867, 16 Stat. 719, creating
the White Earth Reservation, the Chippewas of the Mississippi ceded all their land in Minnesota, except certain
described tracts, to the United States, and the Government set apart the White Earth Reservation for their
use, and provision was made for the certification to each
Indian of not to exceed 160 acres of land in lots of.40 acres
each, upon the cultivation of ten acres, provided that the
land should be eempt from taxation and sale for debt and
should not be alienated except with the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior and then only to a Chippewa
Indian. Under the general allotment. act of February 8,
1887, 24 Stat. 388, provision was made for the allotment of lands in the Indian reservations in severalty, and
it was provided that upon the approval of the allotments
patent, therefor should issue in the name of the allottees,
which should have the legal effect and declare that the
United States held the land for twenty-five years in trust
for the use and benefit of the Indian to whom the allotment was made, or in case of his death for his heirs, according to the laws of the State or Territory where the land was
located. At the expiration of that time the United States
was required to convey the same to the Indian or his heirs
in fee, discharged of the trust and free of encumbrances,
provided that the President of the United States might
at his discretion extend the period. Conveyances or con-

UNITED STATES v. WALLER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tracts touching the lands before the expiration of the trust
period were declared null and void. The Nelson Act of
January 14, 1889, 25 Stat. 642, provided for the relinquishment to the United States of that part of the reservation remaining after the allotment, the act to become
operative only upon the assent of a certain number of
Indians being obtained. By the Act of February 28, 1891,
26 Stat. 794, the allotments were limited to eighty acres
to each Indian, but by the Act of April 28, 1904, 33 Stqt.
539, the maximum allotments of the White Earth Reservation were made 160 acres. While the lands were thus
held in trust and subject to the provisions of the Act of
February 8, 1887, the Clapp Amendment was passed, 34
Stat .' 1015, 1034, which provides:
"That all restrictions as to the sale, incumbrance, or
taxation for allotments within the White Earth Reservation in the State of Minnesota, heretofore [amended March
1, 1907, the word 'heretofore' being substituted for the
word 'now'] or hereafter held by adult mixed-blood Indians, are hereby removed, and the trust deeds heretofore
or hereafter executed by the Department for such allotments are hereby declared'to pass the title in fee simple,
or such mixed bloods upon application shall be entitled to
receive a patent in fee simple for such allotments; and as
.to full bloods, said restrictions shall be removed when the
Secretary of the Interior is satisfied that said adult fullblood *Indians are competent to handle their own affairs,
and in such case the Secretary of the Interior shall issue
to such Indian allottee a patent in fee simple upon application."
As stated in the certificate, the Indians involved are
adults of mixed blood, and the lands in question were
duly allotted and patented to them (by trust patents,
counsel agree,)before the deeds in controversy were made;
We cannot escape the conviction that the plain language
of this act evidences the intent and purpose of Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

to make such lands allotted to mixed-blood Indians subject to alienation with all the incidents and rights which
inhere in full ownership in persons of full capacity.
The act deals with two classes: First, adult mixed-blood
Indians, as to whom all restrictions as to sale or incumbrance 'are removed and the trust deeds declared to pass
title in fee simple, or upon application such mixed bloods
are to receive fee simple patents for their allotments; and,
Second, full-blood Indians, as to .whom the restrictions are
to continue until the Secretary of the Interior is satisfied
that such Indians "are competent to handle their own
affairs," at which time they are to receive patents in fee
simple. This distinction between the qualifications of
adult mixed and full-blood Indians is one which Congress
has not infrequently applied. Tiger v. Western Investment
Co., 221 U. S. 286, 306, 308; United States v. FirstNational
Bank, supra, at page 260.
The act thus evidences a legislative judgment that adult
mixed-blood Indians are, in the respects dealt with in the
act, capable of managing their own affairs, and for that
reason they are given full power and authority to dispose of
allotted lands. This may be a mistake of judgment as to
some cases, and if the allegations of the bill set forth in
the certificate in this case are true, it is quite evident that
the Indians here involved were incapable of making an
intelligent disposition of their lands. But Congress dealt
with general conditions, and with these classes of Indians
as a whole, and with authority over the subject has given
to adult mixed-blood Indians the full right to dispose of
the lands in question. It is not for the courts to question
this legislative judgment.
In this view of the legislation and the particular act in
question, we are unable to find any authority in the United
States to maintain this suit in behalf of the Indians
named.

In Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413, it was held

UNITED STATES v. WALLER.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the United States could maintain a bill to cancel
conveyances made by members of the Cherokee Nation in
violation of restrictions imposed by acts of Congress.
That case differs from the present one, in which there has
been no disposition of the lands in violation of restrictions
imposed by Congress upon alienation by the Indians. In
the case now before us, in whatever other respect the
Government of the United States may continue to, hold
these Indians as wards, needing and receiving protection
from its authority over their persons and property, as to
the lands in question the United States, in the passage of
the Clapp Amendment, evidenced its purpose to grant
full power and control to the class named. As to them the
Government has no further interest in or control over the
lands.
It does not follow that the Indians are without remedy
in proper actions brought by themselves or their guardians, if there be such, for the protection of their rights.
In Dickson v. Luck Land Co., decided at this term and reported in 242 U. S. 371, this court had occasion to deal
with rights concerning lands allotted and patented under
the Clapp Amendment to adult mixed-blood Chippewa
Indians, and speaking of the effect of the removal of the
restrictions, this court said, at page 375:
"With those restrictions entirely removed and the fee
simple patent issued it would seem that the situation was
one in which all questions pertaining to the disposal of
the lands naturally would fall within the scope and operation of the laws of the State. And 'that Congress so intended is shown by the Act of May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34
Stat. 182, which provides that when an Indian allottee is
given a patent in fee for his allotment he 'shall have the
benefit of and be subject to the laws, both civil and criminal, of the State.' Among the laws to which the allottee
became subject, and to the benefit of which he became
entitled, under this enactment were those governing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

transfer of real property, fixing the age of majority and
declaring the disability of minors."
We reach the conclusion that in this suit the United

States was without capacity to bring the action for the
benefit of the Indians named, and it follows that the
question propounded must be answered in the negative.
And it is so ordered.

UNITED STATES v. ROWELL ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 63.

Argued November 2, 3, 1916.-Decided April 9, 1917.

In the exercise of its guardian powers over tribal Indians through allotment of lands of their reservation and conversion of surplus lands
into tribal funds, Congress is free to adjust its action to meet new
and changing conditions so long as no fundamental right is violated.
Having enrolled a white man as an adopted member of an Indian
tribe, and authorized and directed the Secretary of the Interior to
issue him a patent in fee for a designated tract of the tribal land as
his allotment, to be in lieu of all claim on his part to allotment or to
money settlement in lieu thereof, Congress had power to recall the
direction before the fee had passed, upon finding that the tract designated had been lawfully devoted to a special use (e. g., school purposes) from which it could not be withdrawn with due regard for
the tribe, or that in situation and value it exceeded a fair distributive share of the common property-this without prejudice to the
right of the allottee to obtain another allotment in the usual way.
An act of Congress directing the Secretary of the Interior "to issue a
patent in fee" to a designated member of an Indian tribe for a designated tract of land set apart as his allotment, but containing no
other words indicative of an intention to pass title by the act itself,
Held, not a grant in prcesenti.
Such, a provision calls for no acceptance other than such as would be
implied from taking the patent when issued,

