SWIFT & CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY RY. CO. 281
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

clear whether the purpose of the rule, in case of secured
judgments or decrees, was merely to limit the amount of
the penalty, or was also to affect the nature of the liability,
so that the sureties would be liable to answer only for
the costs, and damages actually resulting from the
delay.
We are, however, relieved from deciding this question;
because the record discloses that after the issue of the
execution complained of Pease paid the amount due "as
Trustee for himself and the other stockholders of the
People's Light Company." in other words, the record
does not show that Pease paid the amount as surety in
satisfaction of the deficiency judgment against himself.
The payment by him may have been made "as trustee,"
because before that time the corporation had been dissolved.. If this payment was made on behalf of the corporation, obviously Pease could get no benefit from a
reversal of the decree; and as the decree has been satisfied
by the principal obligor the sureties are in no danger of
further proceeding against themselves. On the facts
appearing of record the decree is, therefore,
Affirmed.

SWIFT & COMPANY v. HOCKING VALLEY RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 376.

Argued December 5, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A railroad company, under a written agreement reserving a small
annual rental and terminable on 30 days' notice, allowed a packing
company the use, for warehouse purposes, of land belonging to the
railroad and adjacent to one of its sidings, including a switch con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Parties.

243 U. S.

nected with its main line. The agreement provided that the licensee
should not interfere with the tracks of the railroad company, and that
the switch track should be at all times under the railroad company's
control; also, it reserved to the latter a right to enter at all times "for
the purpose of repairing or maintaining the track thereon, or switching or removing cais thereover." The switch track was used by cars
moving goods of the licensee in interstate commerce between the
warehouse and the main line. Held, that under this arrangement the
switch track was not to be regarded as a private track, but as a track
of the railroad company.
The court cannot be controlled by an agreement of counsel on a subsidiary question of law.
The court cannot decide fictitious cases.
A stipulation of counsel, made only for the purpose of reviewing a
judgment rendered on demurrer to the petition, and declaring a
proposition which, tested by the petition, is erroneous in fact and in
law, will be treated by this court as a nullity.
The fact that effect was given to such a stipulation by the state courts
below does not conclude this court.
Where the shipper lets his private cars to the carrier in consideration
of mileage charged on both outgoing and return journeys, allowing
the carrier to freight them on the return if the shipper does not, and
the freight charged upon all goods hauled is the same as for goods
hauled in cars owned by the carrier, the cars of the shipper are in the
service of the carrier while standing loaded with goods consigned to
the shipper on a switch track of the carrier at the shipper's warehouse.
In such case, the "transportation," within the meaning of the Act
to Regulate Commerce, has not ended, and demurrage for detention of the cars by their owner may reasonably be exacted by the
carrier, in accordance with its rules and rates duly published and
filed.
93 Ohio St. 143, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. M. Hampton Todd and Mr. William L. Day for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. M. Horn, with whom Mr. James H. Hoyt was on
the briefs, for defendant in error.

SWIFT & CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY RY. CO. 283
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.

The National Convention of Railway Commissioners,
an association comprising the commissioners of the several
States, adopted in November, 1909, a Uniform Demurrage
Code. Its action was based upon extensive investigations
and thorough discussion, participated in by the railroad
commissioners, commercial organizations, representatives
of railroads and individual shippers from all parts of the
country. On December 18, 1909, the Interstate Commerce
Commission endorsed the rules so adopted and recommended "that they be made effective on interstate transportation throughout the country." In re Demurrage Investigation, 19 I. C. C. 496.
These rules provide that after two days' free time "cars
held for or by consignors or consignees for loading" or
unloading shall, (with certain exceptions not here material) pay a demurrage charge of $1 per car per day.
Private cars are specifically included by the following
note:
NoTE.-Private cars while in railroad service, whether
on carrier's or private tracks, axe subject to these demurrage rules to the same extent as cars of railroad ownership.
(Empty private cars are in railroad service from the
time they axe placed by the carrier for loading or tendered
for loading on the orders of a shipper. Private cars under
lading are in railroad service until the lading is removed
and cars are regularly released. Cars which belong to an
industry performing its own switching service, are in
railroad service from the time they are placed by the industry upon designated interchange tracks, and thereby
tendered to the carrier for movement. If such cars are
subsequently returned empty, they are out of service
when withdrawn by the industry from the interchange; if

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

returned under load, railroad service is not at an end until
the lading is duly removed.)
in 1910 the Hocking Valley Railway Company, an
interstate carrier, inserted in its freight tariff duly filed
and published as required by the Act to Regulate Commerce, the demurrage rules and charges, including that
relating to private cars quoted above. Thereafter, Swift
& Company, Chicago meat packers, established on-the
line of that railroad at Athens, Ohio, a warehouse to which
it made, from time to time, shipments in private cars.
These cars, which were placed on the switch used in connection with the warehouse, were not unloaded within
the forty-eight hours' free time allowed by the tariff; and
demurrage charges were assessed by the Railway Company. Payment being refused, this action was brought
in the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County, Ohio,
to recover the amount. The amended petition alleged,
among, other things, that the demurrage rules and charges
had been "approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, by a decision, rendered by said Commission on the
14th day of NoveMiber, 1910, in the case of Proctor and
Gamble Company against Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton
Railway Company et al., which decision is reported in the
19th volume of the Interstate Commerce Commission
Reports, pages 556 to 560, inclusive thereof, and which
decision, approving said car demurrage rules and charges,
is hereby referred to -and made a part hereof, as though
the same were fully written out at length herein."
Swift & Company demurred; and defended on the single
ground that the cars in question were its private cars
standing on its "private track"; contended that the demurrage rule which required payment of charges under
such circumstances was an arbitrary imposition; that it
was unlawful and void; and that it was subject to collateral
attack, even though included in a tariff duly filed and
published under the Act to Regulate Commerce. Two

SWIFT & CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY RY. CO. 285
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

days after the case had been heard on demurrer in the
Court of Common Pleas, counsel filed a stipulation as
follows:
"For the purpose only of reviewing the judgment of
the Common Pleas Court on defendant's demurrer to the
amended petition, it is stipulated by the parties hereto
that the track on which the cars in question were placed
was the private track of Swift and Company."
The next day judgment was rendered for the Railway
Company. It was affirmed both by the Court of Appeals
of Cuyahoga County and by the Supreme Court of Ohio.
93 Ohio St. 143.
The Supreme Court of Ohio assumed the track in question to be a "private track" as stipulated by the parties,
and declared that "demurrage rules relating to private
cars employed in interstate commerce and the charges
assessable thereunder are matters properly included in
the tariff or schedule required to be filed and published.
This tariff containing the demurrage rule having been
filed and published according to law, was binding alike
on carrier and shipper, and so long as it was in force was
to be treated as though it were a statute. . . . This
rule having been approved by a federal tribunal, acting
within the scope of its authority, its decision must be
followed by the courts of this state and be given full force
and effect."
The case was then brought to this court on writ of error.
The errors assigned were, in substance, that the demurrage
rule was repugnant to the Act to Regulate Commerce
and that the decisions below deprived Swift & Company
of its property without the due process of law guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Prior to the bringing of this action the Interstate Commerce Commission had held in Procter & Gamble Co. v.
Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton Ry. Co., 19 I. C. C. 556,
that carriers were "within their lawful rights in establish-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

ing and maintaining" the above rule for demurrage charges
on private cars. The Commerce Court approved the
finding. Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 188 Fed.
Rep. 221, 227. An effort to secure a review of these decisions by this court failed. Procter & Gamble Co. v. United
States, 225 U. S. 282.
We do not find it necessary to decide whether the ruling
of the Supreme Court of Ohio was correct; or whether the
rule concerning demurrage charges on private cars is in
all respects valid; or whether a shipper who has delivered
private cars to a carrier knowing such rule to be in force
is in a position to question its validity in an action for
charges accruing thereunder. For the record discloses,
contrary to the statement in the stipulation, that the
track in question was not a "private track."
. The facts which determine the character of the switch
and the relation to it of carrier and shipper were carefully
set forth in the amended petition and the "License"
annexed, copied in the margin.' Under it Swift & Com'EXHIBIT "B."-License.-Memorandum of agreement, made this
twenty-second day of March, A. D. 1911, by and between the Hocking
Valley Railway Company, a corporation existing under the laws of
the State of Ohio, hereinafter known as the "Railway Company,"
party of the first part, and Swift & Company, a corporation whose
principal place of business is in Chicago, County of Cook, State of
Illinois, hereinafter known as the "Licensee," party of the second part,
Witnesseth: '
Whereas, the Licensee, at its own request, desires to occupy a tract of
ground belonging to the Railway Company at Athens, Ohio, for the
purpose of maintaining thereon a warehouse and office in connection
with its business at that point, together with all the improvements
and appurtenances thereto, in such a manner as not in any way to
interfere with the premises, buildings, structures, tracks or business
of said Railway Company, upon the following described premises, to
wit:
The Northeast part of outlot No. 112 and the Northwest part of
outlot No. 113, in the Village of Athens, Ohio, fronting 175 feet on the
South side of State Street, immediately West of the premises occupied

SWIFT & CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY RY. CO. 287
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany occupied a part of the Railway Company's premises
for its warehouse and office and enjoyed the rights in the
switch from its main lines. The "License" recites, among
other things, the Licensee's desire "to occupy a tract of
by the Standard Oil Company, said tract extending Southward from
said street to the North side of the Railway Company's siding, known
as the "Bank Track" as.will more clearly appear shaded in yellow on
blue print hereto attached and made a part hereof, for a period of five
(5) years, beginning on the 1st day of November, 1910, at a rental
of Thirty ($30.00) Dollars per annum, payable annually in advance
on the following terms and conditions, to-wit:
First. This agreement shall not be assigned by the Licensee without
the written consent of the Railway Company being first obtained, and in
case the said.Licensee shall permit its interests to be seized or sold under
legal process, this agreement shall thereupon become null and void.
Second. The switch of the Railway Company hereby let and connected with its main line, shall at all times be under control of the Railway Company.
Third. The Railway Company shall have the right at all times to
enter upon the premises hereby let, for the purpose of repairing or
maintaining the track thereon, or switching or removing cars thereover.
Fourth. Either party hereto may terminate this agreement at any
time, after giving to the other party thirty (30) days' notice in writing,
and at or before the termination of said thirty (30) days said Licensee shall at its own expense remove all said improvements from said
premises, without causing damage of any kind to the property of the
Railway Company. Upon its failure to do so within said time the
Railway Company may make such removal at the sole cost of the
Licensee.
Fifth. The Licensee shall pay all taxes assessed upon improvements
upon said premises or said premises by reason thereof and will at all
times hereafter indemnify and save harmless the Railway Company,
its successors and assigns, from and against all loss, costs, charges
and accidents whatsoever, which it may suffer, sustain or in any wise
be subjected to, on account of injuries accruing to its property, or loss
or damage to the property of any other person or corporation, arising
out of, resulting from or in any manner caused by the construction,
erection, maintenance, presence or use of said improvements installed
or existing under this agreement, and said Railway Company shall not
be liable in any way for any loss or damage to said improvements or to
.any property belonging to or in the possession or control of said Li-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

ground belonging to the Railway Company . . . for
the purpose of maintaining thereon a warehouse and
office . . . in such a manner as not in any. way to
interfere with the . . . tracks . . . of said Railway Company . . . ";that the premises lie on "the
North side of the Railway Company's siding, known as
the 'Bank Track'
"; that "the switch of the
Railway Company hereby let and connected with its
main line, shall at all times be under control of the Railway Company"; and that "the Railway Company shall
have the right at all times to enter upon the premises
hereby let, for the purpose of repairing or maintaining
the track thereon, or switching, or removing cars thereover." A rental of $30 per annum is provided for; but
the license is terminable on 30 days' notice.
These facts were admitted by the demurrer. Upon
censee on or about said premises, resulting from the operation of and
use of its railway, engines, cars or machinery, or by reason of fire or
sparks therefrom, or any other casualty arising from the use and operation of its railway, and shall be held forever free and harmless by said
Licensee from any such liability.
Sixth. The Licensee shall consign all products shipped to it, intended
to be placed on the siding hereby let., where the rates and services are
equal, via the line or lines of the Railway Company, and shall give said
Railway Company the long hauls thereof.
Seventh. The Licensee hereby accepts the License herein made with
the above specified terms and conditions, and agrees that any failure or
default on its part as to either of the same, may be held and considered
a forfeiture and surrender of this License by it.
In Witness Whereof, the parties hereto have caused this instrument
to be executed in duplicate, on the day and year first above written.
THE HOCKING VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY,
(Signed) By W. L. MATTOON, Real Estate Agent.
SWIFT & COMPANY,
(Signed) By L. B. SWIFT.
Witness:
(Signed) E. OSLER HUGHES.
Witness:
(Signed) D. E, HARTWELL.

SWIFT & CO. v. HOCKING VALLEY RY. CO. 289
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

them the case was heard by the Court of Common Pleas;
and upon them the case must be decided in this court,
unaffected by stipulation of counsel made "for the purpose only of reviewing the judgment of the Common Pleas
Court." The construction and effect of a written instrument is a question of law. Dillon v. Barnard, 21 Wall.
430, 437. Clearly the track in question was not a private
track of the shipper but a track of the carrier-like the spur
passed upon in National Refining Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. &
S. Ry. Co., 237 Fed. Rep. 347, affirming 226 Fed. Rep. 357.
If the stipulation is to be treated as an agreement concerning the legal effect of admitted facts, it is obviously
inoperative; since the court cannot be controlled by agreement of counsel on a subsidiary question of law.' If the
stipulation is to be treated as an attempt to agree "for
the purpose only of reviewing the judgment" below that
what are the facts shall be assumed not to be facts, a moot
or fictitious, case is presented. "The duty of this court,
as of every judicial tribunal, is limited to determining
rights of persons or of property, which are actually controverted in the particular case before it.
No
stipulation of parties or counsel, whether in the case before
the court or in any other case, can enlarge the power, or
affect the duty, of the court in this regard." California
v. San Pablo & Tulare R. R. Co., 149 U. S. 308, 314. See
Mills v., Green, 159 U. S. 651, 654. The fact that effect
was given to the stipulation by the appellate courts of
Ohio does not conclude this court. See Tyler v. Judges of
Court of Registration, 179 U. S. 405, 410. We treat the
stipulation, therefore, as a nullity.
San FranciscoLumber Co. v. Bibb, 139 Cal. 325; Owen v. Herzihbff,
2 Cal. App. 622; Aubuchon v. Bender, 44 Mo. 560; Prescott v. Brooks,
94 N. W. Rep. 88,94 (N. D.); Holms v. Johnson, 59 Tenn. 155. See also
Breeze v. Haley, 11 Colo. 351, 362; Lyon v. The Robert Garrett Lumber
Co., 77 Kans. 823, 827; Wells v. Covenant Mutual Benefit Assn., 126
Mo. 630, 639.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Disent;

243 U. S.

Consignors or consignees of freight shipped in private
cars pay the same rates for transportation as if the commodities had been shipped in the cars owned by the carriers; but the owners or lessees of private cars are paid or
allowed by the carriers (east of the Mississippi River) a
sum equal to three-fourths of a cent per mile for refrigerator or-tank cars and three-fifths of a cent per mile for
other cars. The cars are returned by the railroads to
the owners Without extra charge. The mileage allowance
is paid for the return trip as well as on the journey to
destination with load. And if the private car owner does
not furnish a load for the return journey the carriers have
the right to load the cars. Re Demurrage Charges on Tank
Cars, 13 I. C. C. 378, 379.
Swift & Company's cars were, therefore, though privately owned, still in railroad service while under lading.
The cars while orr the switch were on track owned by the.
Railway Company. The "transportation" within the
meaning of the Act to Regulate Commerce had not ended.
It cannot be said that a charge for detention of a private
car and use of a railroad track under such circumstance is
unreasonable. Even before the adoption of the Uniform
Demurrage Code such a charge had been upheld by the
Interstate Commerce Commission. Cudahy Packing Co.
v. Chicago &'Northwestern Ry. Co., 12 1. C. C. 446. Defendant's argument was based wholly upon the assumption
that the switch was a "private track"; and the propriety
of such a charge for cars detained on a public track seems
not to have been questioned.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JusTicE VAN DEVANTER

and MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLS dissent.

