444

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Parties.

LEHIGH

243 U. S.

VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY
UNITED STATES.

v.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 124. Argued March 23, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.
Forwarders who under contract with importers of goods look after the
transportation from origin abroad to destination in this country,
charging the owners amounts agreed, upon in advance for the transportation and the services rendered and consigning the goods in
their own names to themselves as consignees, are the shippers of the
goods so far as concerns their relations with the interstate carrier
over whose line the consignments go.
Any allowance by the interstate carrier to the forwarder in reduction
of the regular tariff rates on goods shipped by the forwarder over
the carrier's line, whether it be by deducting a percentage of the
freight or by commissions and salary from carrier to forwarder,
is condemned by § 6 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended
by the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 2, 34 Stat. 586, 587, and also,
semble, by § 2 of the oiginal act, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379.
Services rendered by the forwarder to the carrier in maintaining offices,
advertising the railroad and soliciting traffic over it are not services
connected with the transportation for which an allowance may be
made by the carrier under § 15 of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
as amended by the Act of June 29, 1906, supra, § 4, 34 Stat. 589.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Peavey & Co., 222 U. S. 42, dis-

tinguished.
222 Fed. Rep. 685, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George T. Buckingham, with whom Mr. Edgar H.
Boles, Mr. Stewart C. Pratt and Mr. Allan McCulloh were
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Todd for the United
States.

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 445
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Joseph W. Folk and Mr. Charles W. Needham,
by leave of. court, filed a brief on behalf of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a proceeding instituted by direction of the Attorney General at the request of the Interstate Commerce
Commission to prevent the appellant railroad from carrying freight at less than its published rates on file. The
case was heard upon bill and answer and a stipulation,
and the question is whether the facts warrant an injunction, as matter of law.
George W. Sheldon and Company is an Illinois corporation engaged in forwarding, or bringing goods for importers
from the place of purchase in Europe to their destination
in the United States and charging the importers for the
transportation and such other services as it may perform.
Of course the expectation is that it will make a profit from
the transaction, although from the uncertainty of ocean
freight charges it may lose, as the contract is made in
advance. By arrangement with the appellant, so far as it
is able it sends the goods over the appellant's line, and for
doing so receives from it a varying percentage upon the
published rates and also a salary of $5,000 a year. These'
payments by the appellant are the ground of the bill.
The District Court issued an injunction as prayed. 222
Fed. Rep. 685.
As toward the railroad, George W. Sheldon and Company is consignor and consignee, and although it may be
inno case the owner, that does not concern the appellant.
Upon the admitted facts there can be no doubt and it is
not denied that it is to all legal intents the shipper of the
goods. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Delaware,.
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235. Great
Northern Ry.Co. v. O'Connor,23211. S.508. If the shipper

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

were the owner an allowance to him of a percentage upon
the freight as'an inducement to ship by that line, however
honest and however justifiable on commercial principles,
would be contrary to the Act to Regulate Commerce as
it now stands. Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 2, 34 Stat.
586, 587, amending §6 of the original act, &c. See also
the original Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 2, 24 Stat.
379. Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512. But the
above cases show that the carrier cannot inquire whether
the shipper is the owner and therefore the statute expresses
a necessary policy when it forbids in universal terms refunding in any manner any portion of the rates specified
in the published tariffs or extending to "any shipper"
any privilege not so specified. Of course it does not matter
whether the allowance takes the form of a deduction or
a crosspayment. Any payment -made by a carrier to a
shipper in consideration of his shipping goods over the
carriers line comes within the prohibiting words.
It is true no doubt that George W. Sheldon and Company in the performance of the services for which it is
paid maintains offices here and abroad, advertises the
Railroad, solicits traffic for it, does various other useful
things, and, in short, we assume, benefits the road and
earns its money, if it were allowable to earn money in
that way. It is true also that in Interstate Commerce
Commission v. F. H. Peavey & Co., 222 U. S. 42, an owner
of property transported was held entitled under § 15 of
the Act to Regulate Commerce to an allowance for furnishing a part of the transportation that the carrier'was bound
to furnish. (So Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Updike Grain
Co., 222 U. S. 215, and United States v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co., 231 U. S. 274.) But that case goes to the verge
of what is permitted by the act. The services rendered by
George W. Sheldon and Company, although in a practical
sense " connected with such transportation," were not
connected with it as a necessary part of the carriage-were

PULLMAN CO. v. KNOTT.
243 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

not "transportation service," in the language of Union
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Updike Grain Co., 222 U. S. 215,
220-and in our opinion were not such services as were
contemplated in the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 4,
34 Stat. 589, amending § 15 of the original act. On the
other hand the allowance for them falls within the plain
meaning of § 2 of the Act of 1906, to which we referred
above.
There is some criticism of the form of the decree, but it
prohibits with sufficient plainness all payments to George
W. Sheldon and Company, whether by way of salary,
commission, or otherwise, in consideration of the shipment
of goods by George W. Sheldon and Company over the
appellant's line.
Decree afirmed.

THE PULLMAN COMPANY v. KNOTT, AS COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 262.

Motion to dismiss submitted March 19, 1917.-Decided
April 9, 1917.

A suit to restrain a state official and his successors in office from estimating, levying and assessing a tax under a state law claimed to be
unconstitutional is a suit against him as an individual and, in the
absence of a statute otherwise-providing, abates when his term of
office expires and cannot be revived against his successor. New
Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, 388, distinguished.
Writ of error to review 70 Florida, 9, dismissed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas F. West, Attorney General of the State of
Florida, for defendant in error, in support of the motion.

