ENTERPRISE IRRIG. DIST. v. CANAL CO.
243 U. S.

157

Syllabus.

ENTERPRISE IRRIGATION DISTRICT ET AL. v.
FARMERS MUTUAL CANAL COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEBRASKA.

No. 48. Argued January 22, 23, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
In a suit to determine the relative rights of the parties to divert water
for irrigation from a stream in Nebraska, the state court decided that
superiority of the defendant's appropriation had been conclusively
established against the plaintiff, consistently with due process, in
proceedings before a state board, and, further and independently,
that the plaintiff, having without objection stood by and permitted
the ddfendant to go to enormous expense in the construction of a
canal and diverting works, was estopped to question the validity of
the defendant's appropriation on which it relied. The ground of
estoppel being distinct, non-federal, and fairly supported by the
facts, Held, that this court had no jurisdiction to review, although the
state board's adjudication was challenged under the Fourteenth
Amendment.
When the judgment of a state court is placed upon. two grounds, one
involving a federal question and the other not, the jurisdiction of this
court depends upon whether the non-federal ground is independent of
the federal ground and also broad enough to sustain the judgment;
if so, the judgment does not depend, upon the decision of any, federal
question, and this court has no power to disturb it.
Where the non-federal is so interwoven with the federal ground as not
to be independent, or, standing alone, is not of sufficient breadth to
sustain the judgment, the jurisdiction of this court attaches.
Where the non-federal ground is so certainly unfounded that it properly may be regarded as essentially arbitrary, or a mere device to
prevent a review of the decision upon the federal question, the judgment rests upon the latter and may be reviewed here.
But, where the non-federal ground has fair support, this court may not
inquire whether the decision upon it is right or wrong.
Questions of state law do not engage the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Writ of error to review 92 Nebraska, 121, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Mr. Harry N. Haynes, with whom Mr. Thomas M.
Morrow, Mr. William Morrow and Mr. Harold D. Roberts
were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Fred A. Wright and Mr. Will R. King, with whom
Mr. Carl C. Wright was on the briefs, for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In form this was a suit to determine the relative rights
of the parties to divert the waters of the North Platte
River, in western Nebraska, for purposes of irrigation,
but the only controversy disclosed was over the extent
and priority of the right of the Farmers Mutual Canal
Company, the principal defendant. Another defendant,
the Tri-State Land Company, was interested as a stockholder of the canal company, and need be noticed only
in another relation.
The canal company claimed a right to divert through
its canal 1,1426/7 cubic feet of water per second of timeusually spoken of as second feet-under an appropriation
dating from September 16, 1887, and the other parties
severally claimed rights to divert specific amounts under
later appropriations. In so far as the canal company's
claim exceeded 28 second feet with a priority dating from
September 16, 1887, it was challenged on the grounds that
the appropriation upon which it rested had not been
perfected with reasonable diligence; that this was the
situation when the appropriations under which the others
were claiming were made and perfected; that if the claim
subsequently was enlarged it could not as to the enlargement take priority over the intervening rights of others,
and that if it originally covered 1,1426/7 second feet,
which was disputed, all right to more than 28 feet had

ENTERPRISE IRRIG. DIST. v. CANAL CO.
243 U. S.

159

Opinion of the Court.

been lost by non-user. But the canal company asserted
the validity of its entire claim, denied any loss by lack of
diligence or non-user, and contended, among other things,
that the State Board of Irrigation had sustained its entire
claim in 1897 when the board was engaged under the state
law (Laws 1895, c. 69, §§ 16-27) in adjudicating claims
to the waters of the North Platte River, and that the
other parties were estopped from questioning its right by
reason of their attitude and conduct after 1904 when its
predecessor in interest was completing the canal and diverting works 4t enormous cost. The other parties denied
that there was any ground for an estoppel and insisted
that, consistently with the due process and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, the claimed
adjudication by the State Board of Irrigation-could not be
treated as in any way binding upon them, because (a)
the law under which the board acted made no provision
for notice and (b) the board had proceeded without notice
and without affording an opportunity to be heard. Other
contentions were advanced, but no purpose would be
served by stating them here.
It was conceded that during portions of the irrigation
season the flow of the stream had not been sufficient to
satisfy all of these claims and that the State Board of
Irrigation recently had recognized the canal company's
claim by refusing to restrict its diversion in time of low
water to less than 1,1426/7 second feet.
The cause was submitted on the pleadings and on a
"stipulation of facts" covering 84 printed pages and
containing much that was purely evidential and not- in
the nature of a statement of ultimate facts.
The stipulation disclosed that the canal company's
canal was about 80 miles in length, was completed in October, 1910, and was capable of irrigating 80,000 acres;
that in 1895 it had cost about $100,000 and was capable
of irrigating 30,000 acres; that by reason of financial diffi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

cilities, a foreclosure suit and other litigation the work of

construction was practically suspended from 1895 to
1905; that the work was actively resumed in 1905 and
continued with vigor until October, 1910, when it was
completed; that the cost of the work from 1905 to 1910
was in excess of $1,500,000, and more than $950,000 of
this was expended before August, 1909, when this suit was
begun; that the work done after 1905 included a needledam across the river costing $27,869.20, an additional
head-gate of concrete and reinforced steel costing
$52,113.20, and a waste-gate or spillway of similar construction costing $42,253.46; and that the number of acres
actually reclaimed and irrigated by the canal was being
rapidly increased, being less than 2,000 acres in 1905 and
20,000 acres in 1910.
The trial court held that the canal company's right,
although prior in time, did not extend to more than 28.57
second feet of the water, and entered a decree to that effect. An injunction was also granted restraining the company from taking more tian was thus accorded to it.
In the Supreme Court the decree was reversed and the
suit was dismissed on the merits so far as it concerned the
canal company and the Tri-State Land Company, and
without prejudice in respect of any controversy between
the other parties. 92 Nebraska, 121.
The Supreme Court, recognizing that the case was of
great importance to the parties and to all who were interested in irrigated lands in the State, and that any decision therein would almost inevitably result in serious
loss to one or more of the parties, proceeded in a painstaking way to state, discuss and determine all the questions presented. Among other things, it sustained th6
authority of the State Board of Irrigation under the Act
of 1895 to adjudicate claims like those to the waters of the
North Platte River; described the board's power in that
regard as quasi-judicial and its adjudications as final un-

ENTERPRISE IRRIG. DIST. v. CANAL CO.
243 U. S.

161

Opinion of the Court.

less appealed from to the district court; held that the right
to due notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard
was, implied in the act; and reaffirmed its decision in
Farmers Canal Co. v. Frank, 72 Nebraska, 136, made in
1904, that the board's action upon the canal company's
claim amounted to an unconditional adjudication of the extent and priority of the claim and that a leading purpose of
the Act of 1895 was to create a state board "whose records
would evidence the priorities of title to the appropriation
of water in such a public manner that no one might be
misled."
As respects the notice actually given to the other parties, the opportunity which they had for opposing or contesting .the canal company's claim before the board, and
the knowledge of the board's action which they reasonably
should be regarded as possessing, the court found, in substance, that before the board began to inquire into the
claims to the waters of the North Platte it gave due notice
of its purpose so to do; that under that notice all the parties to this suit, or their predecessors in interest, appeared
before the secretary of the board, at the times and places
indicated in the notice, and presented such evidence as
they deemed appropriate in support of their respective
claims-the evidence being preserved and becoming a
part of the record in that proceeding; that the board's
printed rules, which were duly brought to the attention
of all the parties, permitted any claimant to contest the
claim of another, but no one sought to contest the canal
company's claim; that in ordinary course, after the evidence was presented, the claims were adjudicated-a
separate opinion upon each claim being prepared by the
secretary, who was the State Engineer, and afterwards
adopted by the board; that each claimant was specially
notified of the decision upon his own claim, but not of the
decisions upon the claims of others; that the decision
upon the canal company's claim, in addition to being en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

tered in the records of the state board, was shown in a list
of established claims regularly appearing in the biennial
reports of the board which the State required to be made
and published, and was recorded in v1905 in the office of
the county clerk of the county where the appropriation
was made.
In these circumstances the court concluded that .the
contention that the board had proceeded without adequate
notice to the parties, or without affording them a reasonable opportunity to be heard, had no ieal foundation. It
also concluded that, in view of the nature of the enterprise, the large expenditures required and the circumstances surrounding the temporary suspension of the
work, the contention that part of the canal company's
claim had been lost through lack of diligence or non-user
was highly inequitable and untenable.
Then coming to the question of estoppel the court held
that, even if the other questions were decided against the
canal company, it was entitled to prevail upon the ground
that its adversaries were estopped by reason of their own
conduct. In the course of its opinion the court referred
at length to the admissions in the pleadings and stipulation and found, as matter of fact, that shortly after the
decision in Farmers Canal Co. v. Frank, supra, the TriState Land Company, the canal company's immediate
predecessor in interest, actively took up the work of completing the canal and 'diverting works and proceeded
therewith in good faith and with vigor, relying upon that
decision and the state board's adjudication and openly
claiming the amount of water,and priority specified in the
latter, and that the other parties, with knowledge of that
claim and situation, made no claim of superior right to
the water, but remained silent for four years while the
work, which the court described 'Fas conparable only
to the construction of a railroad," wasbeing carried to
completion at enormous cost and the water was being

ENTERPRISE IRRIG. DIST. v. CANAL CO.
243 U. S.

163

Opinion of the Court.

diverted and used through the canal in increasing volume.
And, having thus passed upon the questions of fact, the
court said:
"Under these circumstances, and having this knowledge, it would be contrary to the plainest principles of
equity if plaintiffs might stand silently by, seeing the
defendants engage in such a monumental work under
claim of right, and utter no word of warning as to their
own claims, which, if eventually established, would deprive defendants of the water which the canal was built
to carry, condemn the whole enterprise to failure, and
result in the absolute loss of the money expended. It
would be manifestly inequitable and unjust to allow the
plaintiffs, after the works were practically finished and
the money expended, to insist upon claims which, had they
been asserted in good time, would at least have put the
defendants upon their guard and have given them cause
to pause and hesitate in their expenditures until the validity of their title had been determined."
Concisely stated, the assignments of error complain that
the Supreme Court infringed the due process and equal
protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment,
first, by giving decisive effect to the state board's decision,
instead of holding that it was made without lawful notice
or opportunity to be heard and therefore was void, and,
second, by misconceiving or misapplying the statute and
common law of the State in disposing of other questions.
Our jurisdiction is disputed and must be considered, as,
indeed, it should be, even if not challenged. As has been
shown, several questions were presented to the Supreme
Court and all were considered. One was whether the
state board's decision could be given any conclusive effect
consistently with the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, and another was
,whether the defense of estoppel in pait was well grounded.
The first was plainly a federal question and the other - 9

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

plainly non-federal. Both were resolved in favor of the
canal company. The other questions, none of which was
federal, may be put out of view in this connection. Thus
we axe concerned with a judgment placed upon two
grounds, one involving a federal question and the other
not. In such situations our jurisdiction is tested by inquiring whether the non-federal ground is independent of
the other and broad enough to sustain the judgment.
Where this is 'the case, the judgment doeg not depend upon
the decision of any federal question and we have no power
to disturb it. Hammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S. 73, 78;
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; Berea College v. Kentucky,
211 U. S. 45, 53; Waters-PierceOil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S.
112, 116; Gaar, Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223 U. S. 468;
Southern Pacific Co. v. S&uyler, 227 U. S. 601, 610. It
has been so held in cases where the judgment was rested
upon a federal ground and also upon an estoppel. Pierce
v. Somerset Ry., 171 U. S. 641, 648; Louy v. Silver City
Gold & 'Silver Mining Co., 179 U. S. 196.1 But where the
non-federal ground is so interwoven with the other as not
to be an independent matter, or is not of sufficient breadth
to sustain the judgment without any decision of the other,
our jurisdiction is plain. See Moran v. Horsky, 178 U. S.
205, 208; Crestillv. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246, 261.
And this is true also where the non-federal ground is so
certainly unfounded that it properly may be regarded as
essentially arbitrary or a mere device to prevent a review
of the decision, upon the federal question. Leathe v.
Thomas, 207 U. S. 93, 99; Vandalia R. R. Co. v. South
Bend, ibid., 359, 367. But, where the non-federal ground
has fair support, we are not at liberty to inquire whether
it is right or wrong, but must accept it, as we do other
state decisions of non-federal questions. Murdock v.
Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 635; Eustis v. Bolles, supra, p. 369;
ISee also Sherman v. Grinnell, 144 U. S. 198, 202; Gillis v. Stinchfield,
159 U. S. 658, 660; Hale v. Lewis, 181 U. S. 473, 479-480.

ENTERPRISE IRRIG. DIST. v. CANAL CO.
243 U. S.

165

Opinion of the Court.

Leathe v. Thomas, supra; Arkansas Southern R. R. Co. v.
German National Bank, 207 U. S. 270, 275.
It does not, as we think, admit of doubt that the estoppel in pais is made an independent ground of the judgment. Instead of being interwoven with the validity of
the state board's adjudication,' which is the other ground,
it is'distinct from it, and is so treated in the court's opinion.
In taking up the question of estoppel, as also in concluding
its discussion of the subject, the court plainly shows that
it is then indulging an assumption that the other ground
is not tenable. True, the board's proceedings and adjudication are referred to as having some bearing upon the
good faith of the canal company and upon the knowledge
which the other parties had of that company's claim, but
in this the court neither departs from the assumption
indulged nor confuses the two grounds of the judgment.
Even if invalid, the board's proceedings and adjudication
could well have a real bearing upon the matters indicated.
In view of the facts before recited we think it cannot be
said that the ruling upon the question of estoppel is without fair support or so unfounded as to be essentially
arbitrary or merely a device to prevent a review of the
other ground of the judgment. We therefore are not at
liberty to inquire whether the ruling is right or wrong.
And it may be well to add that the question did not
originate with the court. It was presented by the pleadings, was in the minds of the parties when the stipulation
was made, and was dealt with by counsel and court as a
matter of obvious importance.
It is not urged, nor could it well be, that as a ground of
decision the estoppel is not broad enough to sustain the
judgment.
The claim that the court in disposing of some of the
questions, including that of the estoppel, misconceived or
misapplied the statutory and common law of the State and
thereby infringed the due process and equal protection

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment requires but brief
notice. The due process clause does not take up the laws
of the several States and make all questions pertaining to
them constitutional questions, nor does it enable this
court to revise the decisions of the state courts upon questions of state law. Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180, 186;
Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, 112; Castillo v.
McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 683-684. The questions presented, other than those relating to the validity of the
state board's adjudication, all turned exclusively upon the
law of the State, and the state court's decision of them is
controlling. Preston v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 447; St. Louis
& Kansas City Land Co. v. Kansas City, 241 U. S. 419,
427; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S. 100, 116.
The reference to the equal protection clause evidently is
inadvertent, for there is no claim of unwarranted or
arbitrary discrimination.
It results from what has been said that the judgment is
one which is not open to review by this court.
Writ of error dismissed.

OWENSBORO, KENTUCKY, v. OWENSBORO WATER WORKS COMPANY OF OWENSBORO, KENTUCKY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 79.

Argued November 8, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A city granted to a water company a franchise to construct and operate
water works, using the streets. The ordinance defined the grant as
made "for the duration of the said Company " (the grantee), but
elsewhere limited the term expressly to twenty-five years from the
passage of the ordinance; which also contained a contract for the
same period providing that, if, at the city's request, the company

