GRAYS HARBOR CO. v. COATS-FORDNEY CO. 251
243 U. S.

Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

GRAYS HARBOR LOGGING COMPANY ET AL. v.
COATS-FORDNEY LOGGING COMPANY.1
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 132.

Argued January 23, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

In a proceeding to condemn land for a private railway, based on Washington Constitution, Art. I, § 16, and Laws 1913, c. 133, p. 412;
Rem. & Ball. Ann. Code, §§ 5857-1, et seq., and governed as to
procedure by Rem. & Ball. Ann. Code, §§ 921-931, the Superior
Court of Washington, after a hearing on the question of necessity,
entered an order of condemnation and set down the cause for a jury
trial to determine damages, etc.; thereupon condemnees took the
case to the Supreme Court of the State by-certiorari, alleging, inter
alia, that the Law of 1913 violates the Federal ConstitutiOn; the
Supreme Court entered judgment affirming the action of the Superior
Court and remitting the cause thereto for further proceedings.
Held, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington was
interlocutory and therefore not reviewable in this court under § 237
of the Judicial Code. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. v. Wheeling
Bridge Co., 138 U. S. 287, questioned, if not overruled.
Although a federal question involved in state court proceedings be
settled by interlocutory judgment, so that the decision becomes
binding on the state tribunals as the law of the case before a final
judgment occurs, this court i0 none the less free to determine the
question when the final judgment is brought here by writ of error.
Writ of error to review 82 Washington, 503, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. H. Abel, with whom Mr. A. M. Abel was on the
briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
The docket title of this case is: State of Washington ex rel. Grays
Harbor Logging Company and W. E. Boeing v. Superior Court of Washington for Chehalis County, Mason Irvin, Judge Thereof, and CoatsFordney Logging Company.

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

Mr. William M. Smith, with whom Mr. Alexander
Britton, Mr. Evans Browne and Mr. F. W. Clements were
on the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Coats-Fordney Logging Company, defendant in
error, instituted a proceeding by petition in the Superior
Court of the State of Washington for Chehalis County
against Grays Harbor Logging iCompany and W. E.
Boeing, wherein it sought to condemn and take certain
of their lands situate in that county for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining a logging railroad as a
private way of necessity in order to bring its lumber to
market. The proceeding was based upon the following
provisions of the constitution and statutes of the State:
Section 16 of Article 1 of the constitution declares:
"Private property shall not be taken for private use,
except for private ways of necessity, and for drains,
flumes, or ditches on or across the lands of others for
agricultural, domesfic, or sanitary purposes. No private
property shall be taken or damaged for public or private
use without just compensation having been first made, or
paid into court for the owner, and no right-of-way shall
be appropriated to the use of any corporation other than
municipal until full compensation therefor be first made
in money, or ascertained and paid into court for the owner,
irrespective of any benefit from any improvement proposed by such corporation, which compensation shall be
ascertained by a jury, unless a jury be waived,

.

"

Under this constitutional provision the legislature passed
an act (Sess. Laws 1913, c. 133, p. 412; Rem. & Ball. Ann.
Code, §§ 5857-1, et seq.,) which provides that lands for the
construction and maintenance of a private way of necessity may be acquired by condemnation, including within
the term "private way of necessity" a right of way over or

GRAYS HARBOR CO. v. COATS-FORDNEY CO.
243 U. S.

253

Opinion of the Court.

through the land of another for means of ingress or egress
and the construction and maintenance of roads, logging
roads, tramways, etc., upon which timber, stone, minerals
or other valuable materials and products may be transported and carried. The procedure is to be the same as
provided for condemnation of private property by railroad companies. This refers us to Rem, & Ball. Ann.
Code, §§ 921-931 (5637-5645), whereby it is provided, in
substance (§ 921) that any corporation authorized by law
to appropriate land for a right of way may present to the
Superior Court of the county in which the land is situate
a petition describing the property sought to be appropriated, setting forth the names of the owners and parties
interested, and the object for which the land is sought to
be appropriated, and praying that a jury be impaneled to
ascertain and determine the compensation to be made in
money; (§ 922) a notice of the petition stating the time
and place where it will be presented to the court is to be
served upon each person named therein as owner or otherwise interested; (§ 925) at the hearing, if the court be
satisfied by competent proof that the contemplated use
for which the land is sought to be appropriated is really a
public use, or is for a private use for a private way of
necessity and that the public interest requires the prosecution of such enterprise, and that the land sought to be
appropriated is necessary for the purpose, the court may
make an order directing the sheriff to summon a jury;
(§ 926) at the trial the jury shall ascertain, determine, and
award the amount of damages to be paid to the owners
and other persons interested, and upon the verdict judgment shall be entered for the amount thus awarded;
§ 927) at the time of rendering judgment for damages, if
the damages awarded be then paid, or, if not, then upon
their payment, the court shall also enter a judgment or
decree of appropriation, thereby vesting the legal title to
the land in the corporation seeking to appropriate it;

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

(§ 929) upon the entry of judgment upon the verdict of a
jury and award of damages the petitioner may make
payment of the damages and costs of the proceeding to the
parties entitled to the same by depositing the same with
the clerk of the Superior Court, to be paid out under the
direction of the court, and upon making such payment the
petitioner shall be released from further liability, unless
upon appeal the owner or other party interested shall
recover a greater amount; (§ 931) "Either party may
appeal from the judgment for damages entered in the
superior court to the supreme court of the state within
thirty days after the entry of judgment as aforesaid, and
such appeal shall bring before the supreme court the
propriety and justness of the amount of damages in respect
to the parties to the appeal."
Plaintiffs in error opposed the petition for condemnation upon the ground, among others, that the Act of 1913
was contrary to the Constitution of the United States, and
that petitioner sought to take their property for a private
use and therefore without due process of law, in violation
of that Constitution. After hearing testimony upon the
question of necessity, the Superior Court entered an
order of condemnation, and by the same order set the
cause down for trial before a jury for the purpose of
determining and assessing the damages and compensation.
At this point, and before the cause could be brought to
trial before a jury, plaintiffs in error applied for and obtained from the Supreme Court of the State a writ of
certiorari for the purpose of reviewing the question of the
constitutionality of the act and the right of petitioner to
condemn their property for its right of way. The Supreme
Court sustained the proceedings, 82 Washington, 503, and
entered a judgment affirming the judgment of the Superior
Court, and remitting the cause to that court for further
proceedings. A writ of error was then sued out from this
court under § 237, Jud. Code.

GRAYS HARBOR CO. v. COATS-FORDNEY CO. 255
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Defendants in error move to dismiss the writ of error on
the ground that the judgment of the state court is not
final. To this plaintiffs in error respond by saying that
under the state practice the judgment of the Superior
Court establishing the right of petitioner to acquire the
property or right of way sought is final; that while an
appeal will not lie from such a judgment to the Supreme
Court, this is because the statutory provision for an appeal in condemnation cases is limited to the question of
the amount of damages, and a general statute providing for
appeals has been held not applicable to eminent domain
proceedings, Western American Co. v. St. Ann Co., 22
Washington, 158; that because an appeal will not lie the
Supreme Court has held that a writ of certiorari or review
will issue to bring before that court for determination the
questions of use aud necessity, Seattle & Montana R. R.
Co. v. Bellingham Bay & EasternR. R. Co., 29 Washington,
491; and that by repeated decisions of that court it has
been settled that after an order adjudging necessity has
been made and a trial had to determine the amount of
damages an appeal taken therefrom raises no question as
to the right to condemn, but is confined to the propriety
and justness of the amount of damages; FruitlandIrrigation Co. v. Smith, 54 Washington, 185; Calispel Diking
District v. McLeish, 63 Washington, 331; Seattle, Port
Angeles & Lake Crescent Ry. v. Land, 81 Washington, 206,
209; State ex rel. Davis v. Superior Court, 82 Washington,
31, 34. In this state of the local practice it is argued that
the judgment that has been entered should be regarded as
finally disposing of a distinct and definite branch of the
case, and therefore subject to our review as a final judgment; leaving the ascertainment of the compensation and
damages to be dealt with as a separate branch of the case.
Wheeling & Belmont Bridge v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 138
U. S. 287, 2901 is cited in support of this contention, and
certainly seems to lend color to it. But, notwithstanding

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the decision in that case, we cannot regard a condemnation proceeding taken under the authority of the constitution of Washington and the Act of 1913 as severable into
two distinct branches. The constitution forbids that the
property be taken without compensation first made or
ascertained and paid into court for the owner, and of
course in case of controversy compensation cannot be
made to the owner until the amount of it has been ascertained. It follows that the judgment entered by the
Superior Court to the effect that petitioner was entitled to
condemn and appropriate the land in question for its
right of way must be construed as being subject to a condition that the proper compensation be first ascertained and
paid.
As we read the decisions of the Supreme Court of the
State, such judgments are not interpreted in any other
sense; they axe not described as final, nor as independent
judgments. In two cases the term "order" and even
"preliminary order" has been employed with respect to
such judgments (State ex rel. Pagett v. Superior Court, 46
Washington, 35, 36; Seattle, Port Angeles & Lake Crescent
Ry. v. Land, 81 Washington, 206, 209), and they are held
reviewable by certiorari and not by appeal, not because
they, are final, or are independent of the subsequent proceedings ascertaining the damages, but because in Washington proceedings by appeal are statutory, and no statute
has been enacted giving an appeal from the order or judgment determining the questions of use and necessity; by
reason of which, the writ of certiorari is employed as a
means of exercising the constitutional power of review.
The judgment, therefore, seems to us to be interlocutory, and the case to be within the authority of Luxton v.
North River Bridge Co., 147 U. S. 337, 341; Southern
Railway.Co. v. Postal Telegraph-Cable Co., 179 U. S. 641,
643; end United States v. Beatty, 232 U. S. 463, 466.
When the litigation in the state courts is brought to a

ROME RAILWAY & LIGHT CO. v. FLOYD COUNTY. 257
243 U.. S.

Syllabus.

conclusion, the case may be brought here upon the federal
questions already raised as well as any that may be raised
hereafter; for although the state courts, in the proceedings
still to be taken, presumably will feel themselves bound by
the decision heretofore made by the Supreme Court, 82
Washington, 503, as laying down the law of the case, this
court will not be thus bound. United States v. Denver
& Rio Grande R. R. Co., 191 U. S. 84, 93; Messenger v.
Anderson, 225 U. S. 436, 444; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer
Works, 237 U. S. 413, 418.
The judgment brought up by the present writ of error
not being a final judgment, within the meaning of § 237,
Jud. Code, the writ must be
Dismissed.

ROME RAILWAY & LIGHT COMPANY v. FLOYD
COUNTY, GEORGIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 547.

Argued January 25, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A street railway company in Georgia, under special acts of the legislature, claimed a perpetual and unconditional franchise right to
operate over certain county bridges irrespective of the county's
consent. The claim being disputed by the county, the company entered into and fully acted upon certain written agreements with the
county purporting to be grants by the county to the company of the
right to lay, maintain and operate tracks over the bridges upon
certain conditions, including payment to the county for the use of
the bridges, the county being governed in the transactions by a
statute which limited its power to the granting of temporary uses
and privileges subject at all times to revocation. Held, partly on
the authority of City Electric Ry. Co. v. Floyd County, 115 Georgia,
655, that whatever may have been the rights of the company origi-

