OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

risk and that there was no evidence of negligence on defendant's part. This request being refused, the case was
submitted to the jury under instructions which were not
objected to; and a verdict was rendered for plaintiff.
Defendant's exceptions to the refusal to direct a verdict
were overruled by the Supreme Court. The case comes
here on writ of error where only these same alleged errors
may be considered.
The appellate court was unanimous in holding that the
trial court had properly left the case to the jury. No clear
and palpable error is shown which would justify us in
disturbing that ruling. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp,
240 U. S. 464, 466; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre,
242 U. S. 169, 171. The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE MC-

REYNO/.DS dissent.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. OLIVIT
BROTHERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
JERSEY.
No. 577.

Argued April 9, 10; 1917.-Decided April 30, 1917.

In an action against an interstate carrier for damage to goods shipped
on a through bill of lading, the questions, (1) whether under the
Carmack Amendment the lawful holder of the bill of lading may sue
without proving ownership of the goods, (2) whether in view of
stipulations in the bill of lading limiting liability there was evidence
of negligence upon the part of the carrier sufficient to go to the jury,
and (3) whether a recovery of freight paid the carrier by the shipper

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. OLIVIT BROS.
243 U. S.

575

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

was allowable,-are questions which this court may review in a case
coming from a state court.
Under the Carmack Amendment the lawful holder of the bill of lading
may sue the carrier for loss or damage to the goods without proving
ownership of the goods; § 8 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 24 Stat.
382, in providing generally for liability of the carrier to "the person
or.persons injured" is not in conflict with this specific meaning of the
amendment.
In an action against a carrier for damage to goods caused by delay in
forwarding and delivery, where the carrier proves a strike and resulting congestion of traffic which, under the bill of lading, exempts it
from liability if due care was observed to meet the situation, a refusal of the court to charge that the burden is on plaintiff to prove
that such care was not exercised is at most harmless error when
followed by instructions properly explaining that the carrier is not
responsible for delay resulting from the strike, nor liable if not negligent in forwarding and delivering the goods, that such negligence
is not presumed, and that the burden of proving it is on the plaintiff.
Where a carrier defended upon the ground that delay in forwarding
and delivering goods was due to proven conditions of traffic beyond
its control due to a strike, evidence that the goods were received for
shipment after the strike was over and that the delay was caused by
preferring other goods in delivery, Held, sufficient evidence of negligence to go to the jury.
When carrier and shipper agree that the basis for measuring damages
for loss or damage to goods shall be their value at place and time of
shipment, the amount of freight paid upon delivery may be added
to the depreciation of such value caused by the carrier's default.
Allowing the shipper to recover the freight paid is not objectionable
as a rebate, preference or discrimination, where there is no attempt
to evade the Interstate Commerce Act.
Where goods are brought to destination in a damaged condition and
sold at less than their value at shipment, the carrier is liable to refund freight paid if the damage resulted from its negligence.
88 N. J. L. 376, affirmed."

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Albert C.
Wall, Mr. John A.

Hartpence and Mr. John Spalding

Flannery were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
The case is governed by the Act to Regulate Commerce,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in,Error.

243 U. S.

with amendments. The rights and immunities, duties
and obligations of the parties, are therefore determined
by federal law. St. Louis &c. Ry. Co. v. McWhirter, 229
U. S. 265, 274-277; Norfolk Southern R. R. Co. v. Ferebee,
238 U. S. 269-273; Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S.
632; Cincinnati &c.. Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319.
The right to sue follows the title to the goods. Klesea v.
Mfg. Co., 55 N. J. L. 320, 323; 3 Hutchinson on Carriers,
3d ed., §§ 1304, .1305, 1315, 1316; 6 Thomp. on Negligence,
2d ed., 1905, §7422, p. 461; 4 Elliott on Railroads, 2d ed.,
§ 1692, p. 755; Levy v. Weir, 77 N. Y. Supp. 917.
Under §8 of the Act to Regulate Commerce it is to the
person "injured" that the carrier is liable. This can only
mean the owner, and the expression "lawful holder" in
the Carmack Amendment should be interpreted accordingly.

The trial court erred as to the burden of proof.
There was no evidence of negligence to submit to the
jury. The issue was confined to neglect in transporting
the goods. This eliminates any inference of negligence
from receipt of the goods after the strike was over. It was
the right and indeed the duty of defendant to deliver the
more perishable freight, peaches, a well as the watermelons. 2 Hutchinson on Carriers, 3d ed., § 649.
After the defendant had proved the excepted cause in
the bill of lading as the proximate cause of the delay, the
burden was on the plaintiff to show negligence of the defendant in the handling under that excepted cause, or that
the damage could have been averted, notwithstanding
the existence of the excepted cause, by the use of reasonable skill and diligence. Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272;
Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 427; Southern
Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632; Michaels v. Adams Express Co., 71 N. J. L. 41; TransportationCo. v. Downer, 11
Wall. 130; The Glenlochy, 226 Fed. Rep. 971, 972. In New
Orleans & NortheasternR. R. Co. v. National Rice Milling

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. OLIVIT BROS. 577
243 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Co., 234 U. S. 80, there was a distinct finding of negligence
by the state court based on evidence.
Mr. Edward P. Stout, with whom Mr. George S. Hobart
was on the briefs, for defendant in error:
There is no federal question. As to proof of ownership
the Carmack Amendment is decisive. As to negligence,
the verdict supported by the decision of the state Supreme
Couift is a conclusive finding of fact binding on this court.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre, 242 U. S. 169;
Baugham v. New York, Phila. & Norfolk R. R. Co., 241
U. S. 237; Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Renn, 241 U. S. 290;
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp, 240 U. S. 464; New
Orleans & NortheasternR. R. Co. v. National Rice, Milling
Co., 234 U. S. 80, and other cases.
The contrary cases cited by defendant involve construction of federal law, infringement of federal right by a rule
of practice, etc. As to plaintiff's right to sue as lawful
holder of the bills of lading, see Adams Express Co. v.
Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 506; Kansas City Southern Ry.
Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639.
Section 8 of the Commerce Act creates liability for
violations of that act; the Carmack Amendmeit creates
liability for loss or damage to goods. The two things are
distinct and § 8 has no application to this case. Atlantic
Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 208.
There was no error as to burden of proof.
If there is any evidence of negligence which should have
been submitted to the jury, it is immaterial whether the
testimony came from the defendant's or the plaintiff's
witnesses. New Orleans & Northeastern R. R. Co., v. National Rice Milling Co., 234 U. S. 80, 86.
The strike was not the proximate cause of the plaintiff's damages.
When a' carrier relies upon the excepted cause, either at
common law or under contract, it must show, in order to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

excuse itself, that the excepted cause is the sole and proximate cause of the injury. New Brunswick Steamboat Co.
v. Tiers, 24 N. J. L. 697; Reid v. Evansville &c. R. Co., 10
Ind. App. 385; Merritt v. Earle, 29 N. Y. 115; King v.
Shepard, 3 Story (U. S.) 349, 14 Fed. Cas. No. 7804.
The negligence of the defendant was clearly established.
It is obvious from the acts and conduct of the defendant
that it was for the jury to say whether the defendant performed the duty imposed upon it by law to deliver the
watermelons within a reasonable time. Carr v. D., L. &
W. R. R. Co., 81 N. J. L. 532; Burr v. Adams Express Co.,
71 N. J. L. 263, 269.
It was the defendant's duty to inform the shippers that
it would not deliver the watermelons within a reasonable
time. Having failed to do this, it must answer for the
consequences of the delay. Helliwell v. Grand Trunk Ry.
Co., 7 Fed. Rep. 68; Tierney v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R. Co.,
76 N. Y. 305; Carrv. D., L. & W. R. R. Co., 81 N. J. L. 532.
Plaintiffs were entitled to recover the freight paid by
them as a part of their'damages. The true meaning of a
stipulation in a bill of lading limiting the value of the
property to the place and time of shipment is discussed in
the following cases and the courts held that where the
property was'injured by the carrier the freight paid by the
shipper should be recovered as part of the damages.
Pearse v. Quebec S. S. Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 285; Brown v.
CunardS. S. Co., 147 Massachusetts, 58; Piercev. Southern
Pacific Co., 120 California, 156; Homer v. Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co., 70 Mo. App. 285; Kelly v. Southern Ry. Co., 84
S. Car. 252; New York, Phila. & Norfolk R. R. Co. v.
Peninsula Produce Exchange, 240 U. S. 34.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a consolidation of actions, each action expressed
in a number of counts and each count praying for the re-

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. OLIVIT BROS. 579
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

covery of the sum of $500 for a carload of watermelons
received, as it is alleged, and accepted by the railroad company to be transported and delivered within a reasonable
time to plaintiff at Jersey City, New Jersey, and that by
reason of the failure so to transport and deliver a large
number of the melons were wholly lost and the remainder
delivered in a bad and damaged condition.
The car numbers are given, the places of receipt, all of
which were in North Carolina, and the dates all between
July 26 and August 2, 1912, both dates inclusive.
The answers of defendant denied the allegations of the
complaint and set up besides the following defenses: If the
property came into the hands of defendant for the purpose of transportation it did so as to each and every count
of the complaint under the terms and conditions of a certain bill of lading issued to plaintiff by the initial carrier of
the property pursuant to the provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Act constituting an express agreement whereby
the defendant was to be relieved from any and all liability
for damage to the property resulting from delay in transportation and delivery if the delay was caused by (a)
a strike or strikes among defendant's employees; (b)
an accumulation of freight at any point; (c) or by any
other cause or causes over which defendant had no control.
It is alleged that a strike did take place among defendant's employees and continued from July 9, 1912, to the
twenty-first of that month, which strike was the cause of
the alleged delay; also that an accumulation of freight did
occur at Jersey City which continued from July 9 to August 15 and beyond.
It is further alleged as A defense that noclaim for the
loss or damage to the property was made in writing, as
required by the respective bills of lading, of defendant at
the point of delivery of the property within ten days after
its delivery, or after due time for its delivery to plaintiff,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

though it was agreed between plaintiff and defendant that
such claim should be made at the time, place and in the
manner mentioned.
Nor was there any claim for such loss or damage made
in writing to defendant at th6 point of delivery or point of
origin within four months after the delivery of the property or after a reasonable time for delivery, though it was
expressly agreed that such claim should be made at the
time, place and in the manner mentioned and if not so
made defendant should not be liable.
It will be observed, therefore, that the basis of the action
is that certain carloads of watermelois were received for
shipment by defendant at certain places in North Carolina
for transportation to and delivery at Jersey City, New
Jersey, and that defendant failed to transport and deliver
the same within a reasonable time, in consequence of
which a large number of the melons were lost and the
others delivered in a bad condition.
In point of fact the melons were Pot delivered to defendant in NQrth Carolina but in such State to a carrier
with which defendant had connections and were delivered
to defendant at Edgemoor, Delaware, to be transported
from there to Jersey City, and were so transported.
The melons were transported on through bills of lading
issued by the initial carrier, which contained the stipulations upon which the defenses are based, to-wit: (1) That
the delay in transportation and delivery was caused by a
strike accompanied by demonstrations of violence over
which defendant had no control and against which it
could not contend; (2) that there was a congestion of
freight due to causes beyond its control; and (3) that
claims for damages were not made within the time required by the bills of lAding-that is, within ten days in
some cases, thirty days in others, and four months in
others.
The ultimate basis of these defenses is the Carmack

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. OLIVIT BROS.
248 U. S.

581

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment to the Interstate Commerce Act. What this
amendment requires of shipper and carrier becomes the
question in the case.
The case involves, as we have said, a number of actions
tried together and submitted to one jury. Plaintiff was
plaintiff in all of them and obtained judgment which was
affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals on the authority of another case of like kind.
There was a stipulation which concentrated the issues
and removed from controversy the amounts involved. For
instance, as to the latter it'was stipulated that the value
of the melons at the time and place of shipment was
$13,465.00 and that they were sold at the place of delivery
for $8,895.00, being the best price which could be obtained
for them owing to their damaged condition. And it was
further stipulated that the freight charges paid by plaintiff amounted to the sum of $5,484.59.
As to the other elements it was stipulated that the
melons were received and accepted by defendant at
Edgemoor, Delaware, for transportation to Jersey City,
New Jersey, in accordance with the bills of lading; that the
usual and customary time for transportation was about
seven hours under the most favorable circumstances; that
plaintiff was at the time of bringing the actions and is now
the lawful holder of the bills of lading; that the melons
were received at Edgemoor by defendant in apparently
good order but were in a damaged condition when delivered to plaintiff at defendant's delivery yard at Jersey
City, and that claims for damages were duly made in
writing as required by the bills of lading.
The cases are designated as the "64-count case," the
"13-count case," and the "11-count case." All of the
bills of lading in the "64-count case," one in the "13count case" and four in the "11-count case" contain a
provision exempting the carrier from liability for loss or
damage resulting "from riots or strikes." Twelve of the

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

bills of lading in the "13-count case" and seven in the "11count case" provide that the carriers should "not be liable
for any injury to, or decay of, fruits and vegetables, or
other perishable freight, due to detention or delay occasioned by an accumulation of freight at any point .
or to any other causes over which the carriers have. no
control." And there is difference in times of demands.
A motion is made to dismiss on the ground that no federal question appears in the record or, alternatively, if
one appears, it is without merit. In support of the contentions it is said the questions in the case are: (1) Whether,
it being stipulated that plaintiff was the holder of the bills
of lading, it was the owner of the melons at the time the
shipments were made; (2) whether there was any evidence
of negligence of defendant which should have been submitted to the jury, and (3) whether plaintiff was entitled
to recover the freight paid by it.
The first question involves the Carmack Amendment
and, considering it, the Court of Errors and Appeals
decided that "any lawful holder of a bill of lading issued
by the initial carrier pursuant to the Carmack Amendment . . . upon receiving property for interstate
transportation, may maintain an action for any loss, damage or injury to such property caused by any connecting
carrier to whom the goods are delivered." Citing Adams
Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491.
We are not prepared to say that a contest of this view
is frivolous, and the motion to dismiss is denied. Besides,
it is contended that the shipments having been in interstate comnerce they are subject to and governed by the
Interstate Commerce Act.
Coming to the merits of the question, however, we concur with the Court of Errors and Appeals in its construction of' the Carmack Amendment. It provides: "That
any common carrier . . . receiving property .for
transportation from a point in one State to a point in

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.v. OLIVIT BROS.
243 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

another State shall issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor
and shall be liable to the lawful holder [italics ours] thereof
for any loss, damage, or injury to such property caused
by it.
.
"
The crucial words are "lawful holder." Defendant
contends that they mean "the owner or some one shown
to be duly authorized to act for him in a way that would
render any judgment recovered in such an action against
the carrier res adjudicata in any other action." And § 8'
of the Interstate Commerce Act is referred to as fortifying such view. It provides that "such common carrier
shall be liable to the person or persons injured" in consequence of any violations of the act.'
To accept this view would make § 8 contradict the Carmack Amendment (§ 20), it having only a general purpose,
whereas the purpose of the amendment is special and definitely expresses the lawful holder of the bill of lading to
be the person to whom the carrier shall be liable "for any
loss, damage, or injury" to property caused by it. Adams
Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491.
The next contention of defendant is that there was
error in applying the burden of proof upon the motion to
direct a verdict for defendant.
The grounds of the contention urged at the trial and
now repeated are that by certain of the bills of lading the
carrier is relieved from liability in case of a strike, by certain others in case of delays occasioned by causes beyond
'"Sec. 8. That in case any common carrier subject to the provisions
of this act shall do, cause to be done, or permit to be done any act,
matter, or thing in this act prohibited or declared to be unlawful, or
shall omit to do any act, matter, or thing in this act required to be done,
such common carrier shall be liable to the person or persons injured
thereby for the full amount of damages sustained in consequence of
any such violation of the provisions of this act, together with a reasonable counsel or attorney's fee, to be fixed by the court in every case of
recovery, which attorney's fee shall be taxed and collected as part of
the costs in the case." 24 Stat. 382.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

its control, and by others in case of an accumulation of
freight proved to be a matter beyond the control of the
carrier. And these causes having been proved, it is contended the carriers were brought within the protection of
the stipulation and it became incumbent upon plaintiff
to show that defendant in'one way or another failed "to
handle the situation at that time in a way which was free
from negligence." It was and is contended that the whole
issue was shifted "from the general allegation of negligence to the allegation that the injury was caused because
the defendant failed to perform the duty which it was
obliged to perform under the law." Counsel concede that
the whole question was whether when the proof was that
"there was the excepting cause," defendant did what it
"should have done to meet the situation," and the burden
was upon the plaintiff to show that the carrier did not do
what it "ought to have done."
The court rejected the contention. It replied that
merely proving an accumulation of freight or a strike did
not shift the burden of proof, but that to complete its
defense the carrier must show that the strike or the accumulation of freight caused the delay in executing its
contract to deliver the property.
If we should grant that the ruling was technically erroneous its effect in the case can hardly be estimated in
view of the instructions of the court to the jury entirely
considered. They are too long to quote, but we may
say of them that they were very carefully expressed to
give the jury the elements of decision.
The court told the jury that defendant had proved a
cause beyond its control, that is, a strike, and at the request of defendant further instructed that if no negligence on the defendant's part was shown defendant was
not liable and that the burden of proving such negligence was upon the plaintiff. A like instruction was given
as to any cause beyond defendant's control, including an

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. OLIVIT BROS.
243 U. S.

585

Opinion of the Court.

accumulation of freight, if reasonable care was exercised
by defendant to relieve the situation, that negligence was
not to be presumed but must be affirmatively proved and
that the burden of proving it was upon plaintiff. "The
question is," the court said, "whether or not, in the light
of what occurred over there, the defendant in this case
has been shown by the greater weight of the evidence to
have been negligent in the forwarding and the delivery
of' this freight. If it has been, why these plaintiffs are entitled to recover and to have you assess their damages,
unless some of these other defenses have been made out
by the greater weight of the evidence. If the defendant
has not been shown to have been negligent in the particular indicated, why then manifestly the defendant is not
responsible and the verdict in all the cases where these
rules apply would have to be for the defendant."
Defendant, however; contended that there was not
sufficient evidence of negligence to justify the .subjnission
of the case to the jury Counsel, in attempted support
of the contention, select certain elements in the case,
ignoring others and their probative value- That is,
counsel ignore the fact of which there was evidence that
the melons were received for shipment after the strike
was over, and the fact of which there was evidence that
the delay in delivery was caused by the use by defendant
of tracks where melons were usually delivered for the
delivery of peaches usually delivered elsewhere, to the
exclusion of melons, which were placed in storage tracks
at the "meadows."
The fourth contention is that plaintiff should not recover as part of its damages the freight paid upon delivery
at destination.
.The contention is rested upon the prohibition of the
Interstate Commece Act against deviation from the filed
tariffs and schedules and against rebates and undue preferences and discriminations. It is not asserted in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

present case that there was an evasion of the statute or an
attempt to evade but that the possibility of such result
makes the recovery of freight illegal. It is urged, besides,
that the melons were carried to destination and were there
sold by plaintiff or on its account and that freight thereby
accrued and was properly paid. For which 2 Hutchinson
on Carriers, 3d ed., § 802, is cited. But the cited authority
shows that to be the rule when the loss or damage results
from no fault or negligence of the carrier. And, besides,
to the contentions the plaintiff opposes the terms of the
bills of lading, they providing that the amount of loss or
damage for which a carrier is liable "shall be computed on
the basis of the value of the property (being the bona fide
invoice price, if any, to the consignee, including the
freight charges, if prepaid) at the place and time of shipment.
"
. Some of the bills of lading do not contain this provision,
but it was agreed at the trial that the proper measure of
damages was to be computed upon the basis of the value
of the property at the place and time of shipment and that
such measure should be read into all of the bills of lading.
As plaintiff further says, to recover the damages sustained
by it based upon this value, plaintiff must receive from
defendant the difference between this value and the proceeds of the sale, and the freight paid. In this we concur,
and therefore there was no error in including in the recovery such freight. Shea v. Minneapolis, St. Paul &
Sault Ste. Marie Ry. Co., 63 Minnesota, 228; Davis v.
New York, Ontario & Western Ry. Co., 70 Minnesota,
37, 44; Homer v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 70 Mo. App.
285, 294; Tibbits & Son v. Rock Island.& PeoriaRy. Co.,
49 Ill. App. Reps. 567, 572. The plaintiff was no more
than made whole.

Affirmed.

