OCTOBER TERM, 1016.

400

Counsel for Petitioners.

243 U. 9.

STRAUS ET AL., COMPOSING THE FIRM OF R. H.
MACY & COMPANY, v. VICTOR TALKING MACHINE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 374. Argued January 12, 1917.-Decided April 9, 1917.
The monopoly of use granted by the patent law can not be made a
means of controlling the prices of the patented articles after they
have been, in reality even though not in form, sold and paid for.
An attempt by means of "license contracts" with dealers and "license
notices" attached to patented machines to retain title in the manufacturer and patent owner until the expiration of the latest patent
referred to in such notice, and to limit until the expiration of such
period the right of the public to a mere license to use dependent
upon observance of conditions in the "license notices," -including
conditions as to price, will not be regarded as a legitimate exercise
of the patent owner's control over the use where, plainly, from the
terms of the "license notices" and from the relations established
between the patent owner and the dealers through whom the machines are distributed, the object of such reservations and restrictions is to enable the patent owner to fix and maintain the prices
at which the machines may be disposed of after they have passed
from its possession into the possession of the dealers and the ptblic
and after it has received from the dealers the full price which it
asks or expects for the machines.
In such case, as to purchasers not in privity with the patent owner,
the restrictions of the "license notices" are to be treated as void
attempts to control prices after sale, and in buying from the dealers
and reselling to the public at prices lower than the notices prescribe
such purchasers do not violate the rights secured to the patent owner
by the patent law.
230 Fed. Rep. 449, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edmond E. Wise and Mr. Walter C. Noyes for petitioners.

STRAUS v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO.
243 U. S.

401

Argument for Respondent.

Mr. Hector T. Fenton, with whom Mr. Frederick A.
Blount was on the brief, for respondent:
The manner by which the plaintiff obtains the benefit
of its patent is by delivering the physical thing, accompanied by a specifically limited use license affixed thereto,
on payment by the licensee of a certain initial or cash
royalty as a sine qua non to the passing of any title or
right of possession or use. The licensee thus obtains a
qualified title only in the physical thing with a specific
and limited license to use under the patents. He acquires
possession with full knowledge of the limitations. The
paramount license between plaintiff and its distributors
passes no title or authority save to act as intermediaries
of the plaintiff in delivery of machine or record, and of
the specific license for and attached to each machine or
record so delivered, to the user. The specific license controlling the title and permitted use is between the plaintiff
and the user. A privity of relation between them is created when the intended licensee by paying the initial
royalty gains lawful possession of the machine with the
license right given therewith, because such license affixed
to the machine or record, issuing directly from, signed
by, and as the act of the plaintiff, and the acceptance of
the machine ' or record, with such license specific to and
affixed to it, and with full knowledge of its terms and
limitations, creates such privity of relation.
Defendants, having covertly obtained possession of the
physical thing and the limited license to use, without
having paid the full initial cash portion of the consideration required by the terms of the license as a condition
precedent, acquired no lawful right of possession or limited
right to use. The injury to plaintiff in destroying its
market and its standard royalty rates for its machines
and records by their reselling at even lower rates, is
merely an incident in aggravation of the tort of infringing
its patents. The action is ex delicto and jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Respondent.

243 U. S.

the federal courts exists. Fair v. Kohler Die Co., 228
U. S. 22; Healy v. Sea Gull Co., 237 U. S. 479, 480; Geneva
Furniture Co. v. Karpen, 238 U. S. 254, 260; Henry v.
Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1.
The Anti-Trust Acts have no applicability. Standard
Sanitary Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20, 39-40.
The defendants had full knowledge of the license restrictiopns and of the portion of the patent monopoly
reserved. Henry v. Dick Co., supra; Wood v. Carpenter,
101 U. S. 135, 142; Shauer v. Alterton, 151 U. S. 607,
622; American Cotton Tie Co. v. Bullard, 4 Ban. & A.

520.
To qualify the exclusive rights granted by the patent
law is to deprive the patentee unjustly of part of the consideration for which he parted with his disclosure. Under
the patent laws the patentee may maintain a close monopoly of the rights granted or separately exercise- the distinct rights to make, to use, and to sell. He may limit a
license to use for specific purposes only, may charge what
he thinks proper for permitting invasion of his monopoly,
and may contract for his consideration either in money,
or by way of conditions on the use, or both. He may impose any conditions "not definitely illegal." Bement v.
Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70, 91; Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U. S.
1. The distinction is plain between the property right
in the materials composing a machine or the machine as
a physical thing, and the right to use it for the purpose
and in the manner pointed out by the patent. Henry.v.
Dick Co., supra. The rights to make, sell, and use are
each substantive, distinct rights, and may be granted or
conferred separately by the patentee. Bauer v. O'Donnell,
supra. Any invasion of a reserved control over the use
is an invasion of the patent. Cases last cited.
The law relating to attempted conditions on resale of
unpatented chattels (Miles Medical Co. v. Park, 220 U. S.
375, 401) has no bearing, nor has the question whether

STRAUS v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO.
243 U. S.

493

Argument for Respondent.

the transaction amounts to a conditional sale at common
law. For there is no "absolute and unconditional sale
which operates to pass the patented thing outside the
boundaries of the patent," or indeed any sale at all.
Plainly the license restrictions qualify not only the right
to use but also the otherwise unlimited title to and right of
possession in the machine considered as the physical embodiment of the invention patented and licensed as distinguished from the materials composing it. There is no
unconditional passing of the title. Henry v. Dick Co.,
supra. Indeed, there is no sale whatever, and the defendants having never acquired either title or right of possession, cannot set up the license affixed to the machine
in justification of their infringement.
The decision in the Dick Case properly holds that the
patented article sold by a patentee with a condition as
to use exemplifies two severable rights of property, ie
arising under the common law, to the physical thing 'as
such, and the other an incorporeal property right in it as
the embodiment of a patented invention the exclusive
right to use which belongs to the same owner. Hence a
sale of the physical thing with a qualification of the right
to use it, by a patentee or licensee possessing both rights
of property, operates not alone as an exercise of the right
"to use," conferred by the patent grant, but, in the
very nature of things, operates to qualify the title and
free right of disposition, of the physical thing which is an
exemplification or embodiment of the invention so specifically licensed. If the transaction be such that, to use the
language of Judge Lowell in Porter Needle Co. v.. National
Needle Co., 17 Fed. Rep. 536, it is clear "the patentee
has chosen to dissever the ownership and right of use, and
that his intent is not doubtful," then (as found by the
majority opinion in the Dick Case) it was "the kind of
limitation which may lawfully be imposed (by a patentee)
upon a purchaser" of his patented machine; and a "law-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

ful qualification" upon the use thereof, binding upon the
licensee and his assigns with notice.
There is no conflict between the Dick Case and Bauer v.
O'Donnell. The ground of dissent in the former had to do
with the confining of the use of the machine to materials
wholly unpatented. In this case both machines and records are the subject of independent patents. In the Bauer
Case the patented articles were absolutely sold and an
attempt made to limit resale. In the opinion it is so distinguished from the Dick Case.
Mr. Elisha K. Camp, Mr. Daniel N. Kirby and Mr.
Taylor E. Brown, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of the American Graphophone Company and the Columbia Graphophone Company, as amici curice.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKu delivered the opinion of the court.
It will contribute to brevity to designate the parties to
this proceeding as they were in' the trial court-the respondent as plaintiff and the petitioners as defendants.
The plaintiff in its bill alleges: That it is a corporation of
New Jersey; that for many years it has been manufacturing sound-reproducing machines embodying various features covered by patents of which it is the owner, and that,
for the purpose of marketing these machines to the best
advantage, about August 1st, 1913, it adopted a form of
contract which it calls a "License Contract" and a form
of notice called a "License Notice," under which it alleges
all of its machines have, since that date, been furnished to
dealers and to the public.
This "License Notice" which is attached to each machine and is set out in full in the bill, declares that the
machine to which it is attached is manufactured under
patents, is licensed for the term of the patent under which
it is licensed having the longest time to run and may be

STRAUS v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO.
243 U. S.

495

Opinion of the Court.

used only with sound records, sound boxes and needles
manufactured by the plaintiff; that only the right to use
the machine "for demonstrating purposes" is granted to
"distributors" (wholesale dealers), but that these "distributors" may assign a like right "to the public" or to
"regularly licensed Victor dealers" (retailers) "at the
dealers' regular discount royalty"; that the "dealers"
may convey the "license to use the machine" only when a
"royalty" of not less than $200 shall have been paid, and
upon the "consideration" that all of the conditions of the
"license" shall have been observed; that the title to the
machine shall remain in the plaintiff which shall have the
right to repossess it upon breach of any of the conditions
of the notice, by paying to the user the amount paid by
him less five per cent. for each year that the machine has
been used. The notice in terms reserves the right to the
plaintiff to inspect, adjust and repair the machine at all
times and to instruct the user in its use, "but assumes no
obligation so to do;" it provides that "any excess, use, or
violation- of the conditions, will be an infringement of the
said patents," and that any erasure or removal of the
notice will be considered as a violation of the license.
Finally, it provides that at the expiration of the patent
"under which it is licensed" having the longest time to run
the machine shall become the property of the licensee
provided all the conditions recited in the notice shall have
been complied with and the acceptance of the machine is
declared to be "an acceptance of these conditions.",
The contract between the plaintiff and its dealers is not
set out in full in the bill but it is alleged that since August 1st, 1913, the plaintiff has had with each of its 7,000
licensed dealers a written contract in which all the terms
of the "License Notice" are in substance repeated and in
addition it is alleged that each dealer "if he has signed the
assent thereto" is authorized to dispose of any machines
received from "the plaintiff either directly or through a

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

paramount distributing dealer," but subject to all of the
conditions expressed in the "License Notice." It is
alleged that this contract contains the provision that "a
breach of any of the conditions on the part of the distributor will render him also liable not only for infringement of the patents but for an action on the contract, or
other proper remedy."
As to the defendants the bill alleges that they conduct
a large mercantile business in New York City; that with
full knowledge of the terms of the contract, as described,
between the plaintiff and its distributors and of the "License Notice" attached to each machine, the defendants
"being members of the general unlicensed public," and
having no contract relation with the plaintiff or with any
of its licensed distributors or licensed dealers, induced
"covertly and on various pretenses," one or more of
plaintiff's licensed distributors or dealers to violate his
or their contracts with the plaintiff, providing" that no
machines should be delivered to any unlicensed member
of the general public until "the full license price" stated in
the "Licerise Notice" affixed to each machine was paid,
and thereby obtained possession of a large number of
such machines at much less than the prices stated in the
"License Notice"; that under the terms of the said license
agreement and notice, they have no title to the same, and
that they have sold large numbers thereof to the public
and are proposing and threatening to dispose of the remainder of those which they have acquired to "the unlicensed general public," at much less than the price
stated in the notice affixed to each machine.
The prayer is for an injunction restraining the defendants from selling any of the machines, possession of which
they have acquired, from other and further violation of
plaintiff's rights under its,letters patent and for the usual
accounting and for damages.
The District Court regarded the transaction described

STRAUS v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO.
243 U. S.

497

Opinion of the Court.

in the "License Notice" as in substance a sale which exhausted the interest of the plaintiff in the machine, except
as to the right to have it used with records and needles as
provided for therein, and this right not being involved in
this case it dismissed the bill. 222 Fed. Rep. 524.
On appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this
judgment and remanded the case, but with instructions
to allow the plaintiff to amend its bill "if it be so advised."
225 Fed. Rep. 535.
The bill was thereafter so amended as to allege that the
defendants had in their possession a large number of
machines which they had obtained from plaintiff's distributors and dealers at much less in each case than the price
stated in the "License Notice," and that they were proposing to dispose of these machines to the "unlicensed
general public" at less than the prices stated in the "License Notice" in disregard of plaintiff's rights.
Again the District Court, on the same ground as before,
sustained a motion to dismiss the bill, but the Circuit

Court of Appeals reversed this holding (230 Fed. Rep.
449) and the case is here for review on certiorari.
The abstract of the bill which we have given, makes it
plain: That whatever rights the plaintiff has against the
defendants must be derived from the "License Notice"
attached to each machine, for no contract rights existed
between them, the defendants being only "members of
the unlicensed general public;" and that the sole act of
infringement charged against the defendants is that they
exceeded the terms of the license notice by obtaining
machines from the plaintiff's wholesale or retail agents and
by selling them at less than the price fixed by the plaintiff.
It is apparent from the foregoing statement that we are
called upon to determine whether the system adopted by
the plaintiff was selected as a means of securing to the
owner of the patent that exclusive right to use its invention which is granted through the patent law, or whether,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

under color of such a purpose, it is a device unlawfully
resorted to in an effort to profitably extend the scope of its
patent at the expeqe of the general public. Is it the fact,
as is claimed, that this "License Notice" of the plaintiff
is a means or agency designed in candor and good faith
to enable the plaintiff to make only that full, reasonable
and exclusive use of its invention which is contemplated
by the patent law or is it a disguised attempt to control
the prices of its machines after they have been sold and
paid for?
First of all it is plainly apparent that this plan of marketing adopted by the plaintiff is, in substance, the one
dealt with by this court in Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park
& Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, and in Bauer v. O'Donnell,
229 U. S. 1, adroitly modified on the one hand to take
advantage, if possible, of distinctions suggested by these
decisions, and on the other hand to evade certain supposed
effects of them.
If we look through the words and forms, with which the
plaintiff has most elaborately enveloped its purpose, to
the substance and realities of the transaction contemplated, we shall discover several notable and significant
features. First, while as if looking to the future, the
notice, in terms, imposes various restrictions as to title
and as to the "use" of the machines by plaintiff's agents,
wholesale and retail, and by the "unlicensed members
of the public," for itself, the plaintiff makes sure, that the
future shall have no risks, for it requires that all that it
asks or expects at any time to receive for each machine
must be paid in full before it parts with the possession of it.
Second, while in terms the "use" of each machine is
restricted and forfeiture for failure to strictly comply
with the many conditions and requirements of the notice
is provided for, this system, elaborate to the extent of
confusion, fails utterly to provide for entering any evidence
of a qualified title in any public office or in any public

STRAUS v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO.
243 U. S.

499

Opinion of the Court.

record, and no requirement is found in it for reporting
by users or licensees, who may remove from one place to
another taking the machine with them, as would very
certainly be required if the plaintiff intended to enforce
the rights so elaborately asserted in this notice ;-if the
system were really a genuine provision designed to protect
through many years to come the restricted right to "use"
and the seemingly qualified title which it purports to
grant to dealers and to the public, from being exceeded or
departed from.
Third. The fact that under this system "at different
times" "large numbers" of machines, as is alleged in the
plaintiff's bill, have been "covertly" sold to the defendants by the plaintiff's wholesale and retail agents at less
than the price fixed for them is persuasive evidence that
the transaction is not what it purports on its face to be.
If it were a reasonably guarded plan, really intended to
keep the plaintiff in touch with each of its machines until
the expiration of the patent of latest date, for the purpose of insisting upon its being used in the manner provided for in the "License Notice" the plaintiff's prompt
and sufficient remedy for such an invasion of its right as
is claimed in this case would be found in its sales department or rather in its "license" department, and not in
the courts. That the plaintiff comes into court with a bill
to enjoin the defendants from reselling machines secretly
sold to them in large numbers by the plaintiff's agents
indicates very clearly that at least until the exigency out
of which this case grew, arose, the scheme was regarded
by the plaintiff itself and by its agents simply as one for
maintaining prices by holding a patent infringement suit
in terrorem over the ignorant and the timid.
And finally, while the notice permits the use of the
machines, which have been fully paid for, by the "unlicensed members of the general public," significantly
called in the bill "the ultimate users," until "the expira-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

tion of the patent having the longest term to run" (which,
under the copy of the notice set out in the bill, would be
July 22nd, 1930) it provides that if the licensee shall not
have failed to observe the conditions of the license, and
the Victor Company shall not have previously taken
possession of the machine, as in the notice provided, then,
perhaps sixteen years or more after he has paid for it and
in all probability long after it has been worn out or become
obsolete and worthless "it shall become the property of
the licensee."
It thus becomes clear that this "License Notice" is
not intended as a security for any further payment upon
the machine, for the full price, called a "royalty," was
paid before the plaintiff parted with the possession of it;
that it is not to be used as a basis for tracing and keeping
the plaintiff informed as to the condition or use of the
machine, for no report of any character is required from
the "ultimate user" after he has paid the stipulated price;
that, notwithstanding its apparently studied avoidance
of the use of the word "sale" and its frequent reference
to the word "use," the most obvious requirements for
securing a bona fide enforcement of the restrictions of the
notice as to "use" are omitted; and that, even by its own
terms, the title to the machines ultimately vests in the
"ultimate users," without further payment or action on
their part, except patiently waiting for patents to .expire
on inventions, which, so far as this notice shows, may or
may not be incorporated in the machine. There remains
for this "License Notice" so far as we can discover, the
function only, ef fixing and maintaining the price of
plaintiff's machines to its agents and to the public, and
this we cannot doubt is the purpose for which it really
was designed.
Courts would be perversely blind if they failed to look
through such an attempt as this "License Notice" thus
plainly is to sell property for a full price, and yet to place

STRAUS v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO.
243 U. S.

501

Dissent.

restraints upon its further alienation, such as have been
hateful to the law from Lord Coke's day to ours, because
obnoxious to the public interest. The scheme of distribution is not a system designed to secure to the plaintiff
and to the public a reasonable use of its machines, within
the grant of the patent laws, but is in substance and in
fact a mere price-fixing enterprise, which, if given effect,
would work great and widespread injustice to innocent
purchasers, for it must be recognized that not one purchaser in many would read such a notice, and that not one
in a much greater number, if he did read it, could understand its involved and intricate phraseology, which bears
many evidences of being framed to conceal rather than to
make clear its real meaning and purpose. It would be a
perversion of terms to call the transaction intended to be
embodied in this system of marketing plaintiff's machines
a "license to use the invention." Bauer v. O'Donnell,
229 U. S. 1, 16.
Convinced as we are that the purpose and effect of this
"License Notice" of plaintiff, considered as a part of its
scheme for marketing its product, is not to secure to the
plaintiff any use of its machines, and as is contemplated
by the patent statutes, but that its real and poorlyconcealed purpose is torestrict the price of them, after the
plaintiff had been paid for them and after they have passed
into the possession of dealers and of the public; we conclude that it falls within the principles of Adams v. Burke,
17 Wall. 453, 456; and of Bauer v. O'Donnell, 229 U.. S. .1;
that it is, therefore, invalid, and that the District Court
properly held that the bill must fail for want of equity.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
will be reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
Dissenting:
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE HOLMES and
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER.

