ROME RAILWAY & LIGHT CO. v. FLOYD COUNTY. 257
243 U.. S.

Syllabus.

conclusion, the case may be brought here upon the federal
questions already raised as well as any that may be raised
hereafter; for although the state courts, in the proceedings
still to be taken, presumably will feel themselves bound by
the decision heretofore made by the Supreme Court, 82
Washington, 503, as laying down the law of the case, this
court will not be thus bound. United States v. Denver
& Rio Grande R. R. Co., 191 U. S. 84, 93; Messenger v.
Anderson, 225 U. S. 436, 444; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer
Works, 237 U. S. 413, 418.
The judgment brought up by the present writ of error
not being a final judgment, within the meaning of ยง 237,
Jud. Code, the writ must be
Dismissed.

ROME RAILWAY & LIGHT COMPANY v. FLOYD
COUNTY, GEORGIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 547.

Argued January 25, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.

A street railway company in Georgia, under special acts of the legislature, claimed a perpetual and unconditional franchise right to
operate over certain county bridges irrespective of the county's
consent. The claim being disputed by the county, the company entered into and fully acted upon certain written agreements with the
county purporting to be grants by the county to the company of the
right to lay, maintain and operate tracks over the bridges upon
certain conditions, including payment to the county for the use of
the bridges, the county being governed in the transactions by a
statute which limited its power to the granting of temporary uses
and privileges subject at all times to revocation. Held, partly on
the authority of City Electric Ry. Co. v. Floyd County, 115 Georgia,
655, that whatever may have been the rights of the company origi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

nally, the effect of the compromise agreements, and their execution,
was to substitute a temporary grant subject at all times to revocation.
By act of the Georgia legislature (August 15, 1914, Laws 1914, p. 271),
Floyd County was authorized to reconstruct the old bridges in Rome,
Georgia, requiring, in so doing, the removal of street railway tracks;
to grant franchises to operate over new bridges and fix-the terms
thereof including, as a condition precedent, that the grantee pay onethird of the cost of construction. The act, however, provides that
",any corporation now having a franchise shall have the right to use
any new bridge upon complying with the reasonable conditions
imposed by the" county authorities and the terms of the act. Held,
that a company which had in effect surrendered its franchise right
to use the old bridges in exchange for a temporary grant revocable
at the will of the county authorities, could not .enjoin them from proceeding under the act to rebuild the bridges and charge the company
one-third of the cost as a condition precedent to its use of the new
structures.
228 Fed. Rep. 775, affirmed.

THF case is stated in the opinion..
Mr. John C. Doolan, with whom Mr. Linton A. Dean,
Mr. X. Ed. Dean, Mr. Edmund F. Trabue and Mr. Attilla
Cox, Jr., were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. George E. Maddox with whom Mr. Joel Branham
and Mr. Mark B. Eubankswere on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTCE McRYNoLDs delivered the opinion of
the court.
Within the limits of Rome, Georgia, since 1881, three
public bridges have crossed the Etowah and Oostanaula
Rivers. Appellant is successor to the Rome Street RailRoad Company incorporated in 1884 by special act -and
empowered to construct and operate railroads in that
city, also in certain neighboring towns, and, with consent
of the Floyd County Boardof Commissioners of Roads and

ROME RAILWAY & LIGHT CO. v. FLOYD COUNTY. 259
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Revenues, for five miles along public roads. Ga. Laws,
1884-5, p. 191, Id. p. 235. Authority was given to use
horses, electricity, underground cables driven by steam,
"or any other appliance that may hereafter be invented
or used as motive power." The company began to run
horse drawn cars over the city streets and across Howard
Street or Second Avenue Bridge as early as 1885; and this
mode of operation continued until 1892 or 1893.
The Howard Street Bridge having been destroyed in
April, 1886, the county erected a new one upon the same
site; thereafter it refused to permit the car company to
lay tracks or operate over this without payment therefor
and brought suit to enjoin any attempt' so to do. In
County of Floyd v. Rome Street Railroad Co., 77 Georgia,
614, 617 (October Term, 1886), the state Supreme Court
held: "The only questiQn made by the record, therefore,
is,. whether the legislature has authorized the street railroad company to appropriate this bridge to its use in the
manner claimed by it, without the county's consent, and
without making it compensation.

.

.

. The bridge

forms a continuation of the streets of the city across the
river and is a part of the same.

.

.

The legislature,

.

unless restricted by the State constitution, may, even
without the consent of a municipality, and without allowing it compensation, authorize railroads to be laid in its
highways.

.

.

. But even had the consent of the

county of Floyd 'been required to this use of the bridge by
the street railroad company, that assent was given, and
when the condition on which it was accorded was accepted
and acted upon by the company, it became a binding
contract until the license was revoked by the only authority having power to revoke it. .

.

. The precise

point insisted upon by counsel for the county is, that where
any part of a public street or highway is washed out or
otherwise destroyed by any means, and the damage is repaired by a new structure upon the portion thus destroyed

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

or rendered unfit for use, this gives the county a right to
exact additional compensation from a railroad company
which, previously to the injury, used the street or public
highway with the assent of the municipality, where the
railroad company proposes to make the same use of the
street or highway after it has been repaired. We certainly know of no case which has carried the right of compensation for its use to this extent, and think that its recognition and enforcement by the courts would work great
injury to the prosperity of the community."
An amendment to its charter, September 21, 1887 (Ga.
Laws, 1887, p. 148), empowered the company to use
dummy steam engines on the bridges subject to such
regulations as the Board of Commissioners might prescribe from time to time. Extensions were also specially
authorized with consent of the Board. as to public roads
and town authorities as to streets. Another amendment,
November 12, 1889 (Ga. Laws, 1889, p. 696), prohibited
the use of dummy engines or steam power on the bridges
without unanimous consent of all the Commissioners
declared by public resolution in an official meeting, and
it provided, "that the Board of Commissioners of Roads
and Revenues of Floyd county shall not have the right
to grant any vested or contract rights to said Rome
Street Railroad Company, or any other persons on or
over said bridges, but may, in their discretion, grant
temporary uses and privileges to said railroad company
over said bridges, subject at all times to be revoked by
said commissioners."
February 25, 1892, Floyd County, through its Board
of Commissioners, and the Rome Street Railroad Company by formal writing agreed that, "Said party of the
first part grants to the said party of the second part the
right to lay and maintain a single track on one side of
the County Bridges, at Rome, to-wit, . . . with
the right to place electric wires and appliances and to run

ROME RAILWAY & LIGHT CO. v. FLOYD COUNTY. 261
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

electric cars across said bridges upon the consideration
and conditions herein named"-among them payment
of $100.00 annually for use of each bridge, and commencing to build electric lines within ninety days. Later, in
1892 or 1893, the car lines were equipped electrically and
extended over and beyond all of the bridges, and since
that time have been continuously operated. February 3,
1896, it was stipulated by the county and the City Electric Railway Company, a successor to the Rome Street
Railroad Company and appellant's predecessor, "that
said party of the first part grants to the said party of the
second part the right to use its electric wires and appliances and to run electric cars across the Floyd County
Bridges. . . . Said company shall pay annually to
said party of the first part the sum of $200.00 for the
use of said bridges in consideration of the grant herein
named."
In City Electric Railway Company v. Floyd County, 115
Ga. 655, 657 (March Term, 1902), the state Supreme Court
sustained the agreement of February 25, 1892. It said:
"If the railroad company originally had the right, under
the power granted to it by the legislature, as we are inclined to think it had, to construct and operate its electric
lines over the bridges in question, without the consent of
the county and without paying anything whatever therefor, it lost this right when the dispute between it and the
county was compromised and settled by the execution of
this contract. If there had been no controversy between
the parties as to their respective rights in the matter,
and the county had simply charged the railroad company
one hundred, dollars per annum for the use of each of the
bridges, and the company had simply agreed to pay this
sum annually, the contract entered into might have been,
as contended. by the plaintiff in eiror, a nudum pactum,
and, therefore, not binding upon the company. But this
was not the case; the parties asserted conflicting claims,

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

depending upon a question of law, and these claims were
compromised and settled by the contract now under
consideration."
An Act of the Georgia Legislature, approved August 15,
1914 (Ga. Laws, 1914, p. 271), provides:
That all right, title and. interest in the Rome bridges
together with complete jurisdiction and control over them
shall be vested in Floyd County to be exercised by its
authorities.
All permits and franchises theretofore
granted by State, county or city to any street railroad
company to lay tracks or operate cars over any one of the
bridges are revoked and repealed "so far as the same
applies to any future bridges hereafter constructed under
this or any other law, unless the said companies will conform to the reasonable terms and conditions required by
the county authorities"; and Floyd County is authorized
to condemn and remove existing bridges -and construct
new ones. The street railway company upon notice shall
remove its tracks as may be required by the county
authorities; the latter are given exclusive right and jurisdiction to grant franchises to operate over new bridges
and to prescribe terms for such grants; and they are authorized to require as a condition precedent that any
grantee shall pay to the county "one-third of the actual
cost of the building of said bridges . . . but any corporation now having a franchise shall have the right to
use any new bridge upon complying with the reasonable
conditions imposed by the board of commissioners and the
terms of this Act." The validity of any part of the act
shall be contested only by injunction proceedings before
the work of tearing down and removing. the bridges is
begun.
The Commissioners of Floyd County gave public notice,
May 3, 1915, that on June 16th they would begin the
work of tearing down old and rebuilding new bridges at
an estimated total cost of $260,000.00. Ten days later

ROME RAILWAY & LIGHT CO. v. FLOYD COUNTY. 263
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they passed resolutions wherein, after referring to the Act
of August 15, 1914, and reciting their determination to
remove the old bridges and erect others, they declared
that appellant would be required to pay one-third of the
actual cost of removing the old bridges and erecting new
ones, "which sum shall be paid to the County Treasurer
before said Company shall be allowed to place any tracks,
wires, equipment or operate any cars on and over" the
new structures.
By its original bill, filed May 26, 1915, in the United
States District Court, appellant sought to enjoin defendants from undertaking to enforce the Act of 1914 according to their declared purpose upon the ground (a) that
such action would deprive it of property without due
process of law and of the equal protection of the laws, and
impair the obligation of contracts with the State, contrary
to the Constitution of the United States; (b) that when
properly construed the Act of 1914 does not authorize
defendants to require appellant to pay one-third of the
cost of removing old bridges and constructing others, such
charge being permitted only in the absence of a then existing franchise to cross the former.
Being of opinion that nothing in acts of the legislature,
ordinances or resolutions gave appellant "any such vested
interests, or such right to occupy and use these bridges "
as it claimed, upon motion, the trial judge dismissed the
bill. The judgment is correct and must be affirmed.
It is unnecessary now definitely to determine what
rights were conferred by the Act of 1884. Under the
agreements of 1892 and 1896 between appellant's predecessors and the Board of Commissioners the former
accepted a temporary grant subject at all times to revocation-all the latter was empowered to make by the Act
of 1889. This, we think, 'is clearly true and it is also but
the logical result of. what the Supreme Court of Georgia
held in City Electric Ry. Co. v. Floyd County, supra. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

see West End & Atlanta Street R. R. Co. v. Atlanta Street
R. R. Co., 49 Georgia, 151, 158.
Considering the entire Act of 1914 we are unable to
conclude that the legislature did not intend to authorize
the county authorities to require appellant to pay "a
sum equal to one-third of the actual cost of the building
.of said bridges" before being allowed to use the same.
Affirmed.

PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY
COMPANY v. McKIBBIN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 136. Argued January 25, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
In the absence of consent, a corporation of one State may not be summoned in another, in an action in personam, unless it is doing busi-

ness in the State where it is served in such manner and to such extent as to warrant the inference that it is present there.
The process must be served on some authorized agent of the corpora-

tion.
The questions whether the corporation was doing business and whether
the person served was its authorized agent being vital to the jurisdiction, either, if duly raised, is subject to be reviewed directly by
this court, as to findings of fact as well as legal conclusions, upon certificate from the District Court under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code.
A railroad corporation not owning or operating any part of its railway,
or holding other property, within a State, may not be said to be doing
business there merely because cars shipped by it, loaded with the
goods of its shippers, pass into that State, and are returned therefrom, over the line of a connecting carrier (each carrier receiving only
its proportionate share of the freight charged for the interstate haul,)
or because the connecting carrier, within the State, sells coupon
tickets and displays the other carrier's name at its station and in the
telephone directory, to promote travel and public convenience.
The fact that corporations subsidiary to another are doing business in a

