592

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN &SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. STARBIRD, ADMINISTRATOR OF MILLER.
STARBIRD, ADMINISTRATOR OF MILLER, v. ST.
LOUIS, IRONMOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

Nos. 270, 796. Argued December 5, 6, 1916.-Decided April 30, 1917.
Section 237 of the Judicial Code is in effect but a reenactment of § 25
of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, and § 709 of the Revised
Statutes.
In an action against an ifitial carrier for damage caused by its negligence and negligence of connecting carriers to goods of the plaintiff shipped in interstate commerce on a through bill of lading, the
rights and liabilities of the parties are governed by the Carmack
Amendment (§ 20 of the Actof June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584);
and claims of the carrier that failure to give notice as required by
the bill of lading relieved it frmm liability, and of the shipper that the
requirement was illegal but was substantially complied with, are
claims df rights arising under that statute as to which the decision of
a'state court may be here reviewed under § 237 of the Judicial Code.
When a carrier sued in a state court for damages to an interstate shipment alleges in its answer that notice was not given as required by
the bill of lading, the attention of the court is sufficiently challenged
to a claim of federal right based on a federal statute, viz., the Carmack Amendment.
And when in such case the state court decides that the requirement
of the bill of lading is not controlling, it necessarily denies the claim
of federal right, in the sense of Judicial Code, § 237.
A stipulation in a bill of lading that the carrier's liability for damage to
goods shall be contingent. upon notice being given by the consignee
is valid if the terms are reasonable; and whether they are reasonable
will depend on the circumstances in each case.
What constitutes a reasonable time in which notice may be required
by the carrier depends on the nature of the goods; in the case of very

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. STARBIRD.
243 U. S.

593

Opinion of the Court.

perishable fruit, thirty-six hours after the consignee has been notified
of arrival at the place of delivery is not unreasonable.
Neither is it unreasonable to require that the notice shall be in writing
in a case wherq by force of the Carmack Amendment the initial
carrier is made liable for the defaults of connecting carriers, and the
delivering carrier is the initial carrier's agent for the purpose of receiving the notice.
In a case of interstate shipment of fruit governed by the Carmack
Amendment, before passage of the Act of March 4, 1915, c. 176, 38
Stat. 1196, the bill of lading stipulated that claims for damages must
be reported by the consignee in writing to the delivering line within
thirty-six hours after notice to the consignee of the arrival of the
freight at the place of delivery, and that if such notice were not there
given neither the initial carrier nor any of the connecting or intermediate carriers should be liable. The consignee after learning of the
arrival of the fruit in badly damaged condition had time and opportunity to serve notice on the agent of the delivering carrier but did not
do so. Held: (1) That the stipulation merely required the consignee
to give notice within the time fixed of intention to claim damages,
without ascertaining and specifying the amount.
(2) That the stipulation was reasonable and that non-compliance
therewith excused the initial carrier from liability.
(3) That verbal notice to a dock master of the delivering carrier did
not satisfy the stipulation.
118 Arkansas, 485, affirmed in part and reversed in part.
THE case is stated in the o01inion.
Mr. Thomas B. Pryor,with whom Mr. Edward J. White
was on the briefs, for the St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co.
Mr. Robert A. Rowe, with whom Mr. Charles D. Folsom
was on the briefs, for Starbird.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

A motion is made to dismiss the writ of error upon the
ground that no federal question was properly raised in the
state court. The disposition of this motion requires a
consideration of § 237 of the Judicial Code, which section

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

is in effect but a re-enactment of § 25 of the Judiciary
Act of September 24, 1789, and § 709 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States.
This suit was brought by Miller, and revived by his
administrator, to recover against the initial carrier, the
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company,
for its negligence and that of connecting carriers in failing
to properly refrigerate certain carloads of peaches, shipped
from a point in Arkansas to the City of New York over the
lines of the initial and connecting carriers, and in the lastnamed city delivered upon the dock of the Pennsylvania
Company, and found to be in a bad condition. Each
shipment was interstate and upon a through bill Qf lading,
the bill containing, among. other things, a stipulation
that the carrier should not be liable for damages unless
claims for damages were reported to the delivering line
within thirty-six hours after the consignee had been
notified of the arrival of the freight at the -place of delivery. In the answer filed in the case, making one of the
issues upon which the case was tried and decided, the defendant set up this clause in the bill of lading and the failure of the plaintiff to comply with it.
Without now reciting other provisions of § 237, it is
enough to say that a case is reviewable in this court where
any title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under
a statute of the United States, and the decision is against
the title, right, privilege or immunity especially set up
or claimed by either party under such statute.
We have, therefore, to determine three propositions:
(1) Was there a right involved which is the creation of
a federal statute? (2) Was it sufficiently set up and called
to the attention of the state court so as to be "especially
set up or claimed," within the meaning of the act? (3)
Was the decision against the right set up or claimed under
the federal statute? If these requisites are complied with,
the case is reviewable here.

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. STARBIRD.
243 U. S.

595

Opinion of the Court.

1. On June 29, 1906, Congress passed the so-called
Hepburn Act (34 Stat. 584), by § 20 of which it undertook to provide for the liability of carriers in interstate
commerce, and to subject them, as to interstate shipments, to certain obligations which should supersede the
varying requirements of the States through which interstate transportation might be conducted. The construction of this act came before this court in Adams Express
Company v. Croninger, 226 U. S.491, and upon full consideration it was held that the effect of the Carmack
Amendment was to supersede all legislation in the particular States, and to embrace the liability of the carrier
in interstate transportation. It was there said that almost every detail of the subject had been completely covered, and that there could be no rational doubt that Congress intended to take possession of the subject and lay
down rules and regulations upon which the parties might
rely and have their rights determined by a uniform rule
of obligation. Among other things, the act required that
the initial carrier should issue a receipt or bill of lading
whenever it received property for transportation from a
point in one State to a point in another State, and the
initial carrier was made liable, not only for the results of
its own negligence, but also for loss, damage or injury to
the property occasioned by any, common carrier, railroad
or transportation company to which the property should
be delivered and over whose line or lines the property
might pass, and it was provided that no contract, receipt,
rule or regulation should exempt such initial carrier from
the liability imposed by the act.
As the shipment in this case was interstate, there can
be no question that, since the decision in the Croninger
Case, supra, the parties are held to the responsibilities
imposed by the federal law, to the exclusion of all other
rules of obligation. Since the Carmack Amendment,
the carrier in this case is liable only under the terms of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

act of Congress, and the action against it to recover on a
through bill of lading for the negligence of connecting
carriers as well as of itself, was founded on that Amendment. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills,
219 U. S. 186, 196.
This principle has been so frequently recognized in the
recent decisions of this court that it is only necessary to
refer to some of them. In Southern Railway Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632, 636, 639, this court said:
"As the shipment was interstate, and the bill of lading
was issued pursuant to the Federal Act, the question
whether the contract thus set forth had been discharged
was necessarily a Federal question. . . . Viewing the
contract set forth in the bill of lading as still in force, the
measure of liability under it must also be regarded as a
Federal question. As it has oftei been said, the statutory
provisions manifest the intent of Congress that the obligation of the carrier with respect to the services within the
purview of the statute shall be governed by uniform rule
in the place of the diverse requirements of state legislation
and decisions."
In Southern Express Company v. Byers, 240 U. S. 612,
614, this court said:
"Manifestly the shipment was interstate commerce;
and, under the settled doctrine established by our former
opinions, rights and liabilities in connection therewith
depend upon acts of Congress, the bill of lading and common law principles accepted and enforced by the Federal
courts."
To the same effect, Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wall,
241 U. S. 87, 91, 92; Georgia,Florida& Alabama Ry. Co. v.
Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190; Cincinnati,New Orleans
& Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319.
2. As to the part of § 237 which deals with rights of this
character, it requires that the right, privilege, etc., must
be especially set up or claimed in order to make a decision

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. STARBIRD.
243 U. S.

597

Opinion of the Court.

of the state court a proper subject of examination by writ
of error from this court.
It would be superfluous to review the many decisions in
which this court has had occasion to consider the effect
of this provision, which has been in the law ever since the
passage of the Judiciary Act of 1789 in practically the
terms in which it is now embodied in § 237.
It is manifest that the object of the provision is to require that the alleged right of a federal character must in
some way be drawn to the attention of the state court so
that it may know, or from the nature of the pleadings be
held to have known, that a federal right was before it for
adjudication.
The Carmack Amendment is a federal statute regulating
interstate commerce. It was passed under the power
conferred by the Constitution upon Congress to regulate
such commerce and is applicable throughout the United
States and at once became the rule of law governing
such shipmer~ts in all the courts of the country. Claflin
v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130, 136; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.
Since the passage of the Carmack Amendment, the state
court must be held to have known that interstate shipments were covered by a uniform federal rule which required the issuance of a bill of lading, and that that bill
of lading contained the entire contract upon which the
responsibilities of the parties rested. This is the result not
only of our own holdings, but is universally held in the
state courts.1
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Faulkner, 111
Arkansas, 430; Gamble-Robinson Com. Co. v. Union Pacific Ry. Co.,
262 Illinois, 400; Johnson Grain Co. v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 177
Mo. App. 194; Clingan v. C. C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 184 I1. App.
202; Kansas City & Memphis Ry. Co. v. Oakley, 115 Arkansas, 20;
Mitchell v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 15 Ga. App. 797; Bailey
v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 184 Mo. App. 457; Spada v. Penn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

The federal right is-not required to be pleaded in any
special or particular form. It is enough that it be relied
upon and in a proper manner called to the attention of the
court. Section 237 of the Judicial Code does not require
that the statute creating the federal right shall be especially set up. The courts take judicial notice of the statute.
It is the right, privilege or immunity of federal origin which
must be brought to the attention of the state court.
This question has been frequently dealt with in the decisions of this court; under the Judiciary Act of 1789 a
case arose which required a consideration of § 25 and the
requirements to be observed in order to bring a case within
its provisions,-Crowell v. Randel, 10 Pet. 368. In that
case the requirements of the Judiciary Act and the former
decisions of this court were reviewed by Mr. Justice Story.
Dealing with this feature of the law, he said:
"That it is not necessary, that the question should appear on the record to have been raised, and the decision
made in direct and positive terms, ipsissimis verbis; but
that it is sufficient, if it appears by clear and necessary
intendment, that the question must have been raised,
and must have been decided, in order to have induced
the judgment."
It is to be noticed, as to the manner of pleading a federal
right, that Mr. Justice Story observed that all that is
sylvania R. R. Co., 86 N. J. L. 187; St. L. & S. F. Ry. Co. V. Bilby,
35 Oklahoma, 589; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Hailey, 156 S. W. Rep.
1119 (Texas); American Silver Mfg. Co. v. Wabash Ry. Co., 156 S. W.
Rep. 830 (Missouri); Wabash R. R. Co. v. Priddy, 179 Indiana, 483;

Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Thomasville-Live Stock Co., 13 Ga.
App. 102; Ford v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 123 Minnesota, 87;
Joseph v. C., B. & Q.Ry. Co., 157 S. W. Rep. 837 (Missouri); Barstow
v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co., 143 N. Y. Supp. 983; M., K. & T.
Ry. Co. v. Walston, 37 Oklahoma, 517; St. Louis & San Francisco
R. R. Co. v. Zickafoose, ,39 Oklahoma, 302; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Langbehn, 158 S. W. Rep. 244 (Texas); Cincinnati, N. 0. & Te.as
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 153 Kentucky. 730.

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. STARBIRD.
243 U. S.

599

Opinion of the Court.

essential is that it must appear by clear and necessary
intendment to have been raised. When the answer in
this case set up the requirement of the bill of lading upon
which the suit was brought, and the failure to comply
with it, that was all that was necessary to fairly challenge
the attention of the state court to rights existing by
virtue of a federal statute as to carriers in interstate
commerce.
In speaking of the, necessity of especially setting up
federal rights under § 709 of the Revised Statutes, now
§ 237 of the Judicial Code, this court said, in Green Bay &
Mississippi Canal Co. v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58,
67:
"But no particular form of words and phrases has ever
been declared necessary in which the claim of Federal
rights must be asserted. It is sufficient if it appears from
the record that such rights were specially set up or claimed
in the state court in such manner as to bring it to the attention of that court.
" .
In Roby v. Colehour, 146 U. S. 153, 159, it
was said that 'our jurisdiction being invoked, upon the
ground that a right or immunity, specially set up and
claimed under the Constitution or authority of the United
States, has been denied by the judgment sought to be
reviewed, it must appear from the record of the case either
that the right, so set up and claimed, was expressly denied,
or that such was the necessary effect in law of the judgment.' 'If it appear from the record, by clear and necessary intendment, that the Federal question must have been
directly involved, so that the state court could not have
given judgment without deciding it, that will be sufficient.'
Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433, 440; Sayward
v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180; Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226."
In Ferrisv. Frohman, 223 U. S. 424, it appears that the
complainant asserted a copyright in a certain play under

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

,243 U. S.

the common law and defendant set up the copyright for
the play, the performance of which was sought to be enjoined, which copyright was issued under the laws of the
United States. The state court enjoined the defendant
from using that copyright, and it was held that was sufficient to show that a federal right had been set up and
denied, as the copyright of the defendant was derived
under the federal law. That the controversy raised a
federal question was held by this court and the contrary
contention disposed of in the following language:
"The defendants in error contest the jurisdiction of this
court upon the ground that the bill was based entirely
upon a common-law right of property, and insist that the
upholding of this right by the state court raises no Federal question. But the complainants sued, not simply
to maintain their common-law right in the original play,
but by virtue of it to prevent the defendant from producing the, adapted play which he had copyrighted under the
laws of the United States. They challenged a right which
the copyright, if sustainable, secured. R. S. 4952. It was
necessary for them to make the challenge, for they could
not succeed unless this right were denied. Ferris stood
upon the copyright. That it had been obtained was alleged in the bill, was averred in the answer,' and was found
by the court. The fact that the court reached its conclusion in favor of the complainants, by a consideration, on
common-law principles, of their property in the original
play does not alter the effect of the decision. By the
decree Ferris was permanently enjoined 'from in any
selling, producing, or performmanner using,
ing . . . the said defendant's copyrighted play hereinbefore referred to for any purpose.' The decision thus
denied to him a Federal right specially set up and claimed
within the meaning of § 709 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction.
C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S.

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. STARBIRD.
243 U. S.

601

Opinion of the Court.

561, 580, 581; McGuire v. Commonwealth, 3 Wall. 382,
385; Anderson v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483, 4$6; Shively
v. Bow/by, 152 U. S. 1, 9; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Colburn, 164 U. S. 383, 385, 386; Green Bay &c. Canal
Co. v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58, 67, 68."
In Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246, 258, the
defendants were enjoined from using their corporate
name, and it was held that, as this right or privilege was
derived under a statute of the United States, authorizing
the incorporation, the case was reviewable here under
§ 237 of the Judicial Code.
In St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265, where a suit was brought to recover for a death occurring while plaintiff's intestate was
engaged in interstate commerce, it was held that the question of the amount of evidence necessary to establish a
liability was inherently of a federal character, and that
this court might revieWv the decision of the state court
for that reason.
3. The other requisite essential to bring the case within
§ 237 of the Judicial Code is that the alleged federal right
must be denied. It has never been required that a federal
right must be denied in terms, but it has been uniformly
held that it is sufficient if the state court necessarily denied
it in the judgment rendered. If the plaintiff, in bringing
this suit to recover against the initial carrier, not only
for its own negligence but for that of the intervening carriers in the failure to care for and deliver the several cars
of peaches, had said in terms that the suit was thus brought
upon a through bill of lading because of the federal statute
giving the right to thus prosecute the action, no one would
doubt that the federal question was brought to the attention of the state court; when the plaintiff set forth
facts which necessarily showed that a suit could only
be maintained because of rights given under the Carmack Amendment, upon a bill of lading required by that

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

act, it was unnecessary to further label the cause of action
by specific reference to the federal statute. Jones National Bank v. Yates, 240 U. S. 541, 550, 551. So, when the
defendant set up the breach of the through bill of lading,
and insisted that it had not been complied With, he would
have made his case no stronger for the purposes of review
here had specific reference been made to the federal statute which made this bill of lading the sole rule of obligation between the parties.
This record presented a suit which showed that it was
necessarily brought under rights conferred by a federal act;
the defendant specifically pleaded the failure to keep the
obligation of the contract whose force was binding by
virtue of such act; and the state court, in stating in its
decision that this bill of lading had been issued, and would
be controlling in the absence of special facts which it
found as to the effect of verbal notice given to certain
agents, of the Pennsylvania Company in New York,
necessarily denied the contention of federal right made
by the defendant that the provision of the bill of lading
was conclusive of the rights of the parties in this case and
required written notice within thirty-six hours after notice
to the consignee of the delivery of the goods.
For these reasons the case is properly reviewable here.
The stipulation reads:
"Claims for damages must be reported by consignee, in
writing, to the delivering line within thirty-six hours after
the consignee has been notified of the arrival of the freight
at the place of delivery. If such notice is not there given,
neither this Company nor any of the connecting or intermediate carriers shall be liable."
Five of the cars arrived at Jersey City and were lightered over to Pier 29 in the evening, where they were opened
and unloaded by the longshoremen of the Pennsylvania
Company. The record shows that the course of business
at the dock where these peaches were delivered is: At

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. STARBIRD.
248 U; S.

603

Opinion of the Court.

midnight a bulletin is put up showing the car numbers
and consignees. At one o'clock in the morning the dock
is opened to the dealers, usually present in large numbers,
who then go upon it and find their shipments. Miller
testified that he had to get trucks to take the peaches to
his store and then, had to get extra men to sort and repack them so that they could be sold the following day,
and that he could not tell within two or three days and
until his bookkeeper had figured up what was going to be
lost on each carj what the amount of the damage was,
Mid in some cases it would be three or four or five days
after the car arrived before he knew.
Miller further testified that by reason of a warning
from
the Health Department that it would destroy ensuing
shipments of fruit if they arrived in as bad condition as
those in preceding cars, he had the railroad company,
upon the arrival of the other five cars in Jersey City,
unload them and take the peaches to the Merchants
Refrigerating Company's plant, where he had them sorted
and repacked and then loaded on cars and taken over to
Pier 29 for sale. He testified that he was notified of the
cars) arrival and went over to the Refrigerating Company;
that he put a lot of men at work sorting and repacking
the peaches; that it would take from two to four days to
do this and another day to put them on board the cars
and get them over to Pier 29 and sold and it would be
another day before the reports of sale could be made up.
The state court held that the stipulation, in view of the
perishable character of these shipments, was a reasonable
one, but as there was proof in the case to show the knowledge of the superintendent of the dock of the Pennsylvania
Company, where delivery was made, as to five cars of
peaches, that as to such cars the necessity of notice was
dispensed with, notwithstanding the requirement of the
bill of lading. As to the other cars involved in the crosswrit of error, Case No. 796, the court held that the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

knowledge of the condition of the peaches was that of
longshoremen working on the dock and nOt under duty
to inspect the fruit, and that as to such cars the action
must fail.
Stipulations of this character have not infrequently
been inserted in bills of lading, and where reasonable
in their terms have been sustained by this court. Express
Company v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264; Queen of the Pacific,
180 U. S. 49. Whether such stipulations are reasonable
or not depends on the circumstances of each case. Pennsylvania Co. v. Shearer, 75 Ohio St. 249. We agree with
the Supreme Court of Arkansas that, in view of the highly
perishable nature of this shipment and the necessity of
giving notice promptly in order that the carrier might
have an opportunity to examine the same and determine
the nature and extent of the injury thereto before the
fruit was sold or destroyed, the stipulation requiring notice
of such intention within the time named in the bill was
not unreasonable. What constitutes reasonable time in
which notice may be required must depend on the nature
of the freight, and if such notice is to be of service in cases
like the present it must be given promptly. In Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wall, supra, this court dealt with the
requirement of a bill of lading that the shipper must,
as a condition precedent to his right of recovery for injury to cattle in transit, give notice in writing to some
officer or agent of the- initial carrier before the cattle were
removed from the place of destination, and held that such
requirement must be complied with by giving notice to the
agent of the delivering carrier, as the Carmack Amendment makes such carrier for this purpose the agent of the
initial carrier. And see Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
McLaughlin, 242 U. S. 142. The Carmack Amendment
requires the receiving carrier to issue a through bill of
lading and makes that bill of lading the contract of shipment, and the initial carrier is made liable for injuries in

ST. LOUIS, I. MT. & SO. RY. CO. v. STARBIRD.
243 U. S.

605

Opinion of the Court.

the course of transit over connecting lines. The requirement that notice in writing of a claim for damages shall
be given in such cases to the delivering carrier, who is the
agent of the initial carrier for the purpose of completing
the shipment, is but reasonable. In Georgia, Florida &
Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., supra, it-was held
that a stipulation of this kind was complied with wvhen
the notice in writing was given by telegram within the
time named in the bill of lading.
It is not difficult for the consignee to comply with a
requirement of this kind, and give notice in writing to the
agent of the delivering carrier. Such notice puts in permanent form the evidence of an intention to claim damages and will serve to call the attention of the carrier to
the condition of the freight, and enable it to make such
investigation as the facts of the case require while there is
opportunity so to do.
In this case no attempt was made to give such notice
in writing to the agent of the delivering carrier. The
record shows the delivering carrier had a freight agent at
the place of delivery in charge of the docks upon which
the peaches were delivered, and he testifies without contradiction that no such notice was given to him; that he
was acquainted with Adam Miller, the consignee, a commission merchant in New York City; and that he never
heard of any claim for damages until after the beginning
of the present suit. The fact that the peaches were greatly
depreciated was known to the consignee very shortly
after arrival and within sufficient time to have enabled
him to give notice in writing within the time fixed of his
intention to claim damages.
It is true that the record contains testimony tending
to show that it would take more than thirty-six hours to
separate the good peaches from the bad, and to re-crate
and sell the good ones. But the bill of lading in this cag
oply requires that "claims for. damages must be reported

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

by the consignee, in writing, to the delivering line"
within the time named. This bill of lading contained no
stipulation requiring a specific claim to be filed within
thirty-six hours fixing the amount of damages to be
claimed. It was entirely consistent with this requirement, on discovery of the bad condition of the peaches,
to have given notice within the time stipulated of the intention to make a claim for damages, although the exact
amount of the claim might not have been ascertained.
This would have given an opportunity for the delivering
carrier to make the examination which it was the principal
purpose of the stipulation to afford. Northern Pacific Ry..
Co. v. Wall, supra; St. Louis &c. R. R. Co. v. Keller, 90
Arkansas, 308, 313. As was said in the Keller Case:
"The contract of shipment in this case specifically provided that, before a recovery could be had, a notice in
writing must be given of loss or damage within thirty
hours after the arrival of the peaches at destination and
their delivery; that is to say, a notice of the intention to
claim damages must be so given. And in this case such
notice was not given'." Compliance with the requirement
of the bill of lading in this respect would leave a right of
recovery within the period nanied by the statute of limitations if the shipper has a good cause of action. Pennsylvania Co. v. Shearer, 75 Ohio St., supra, 254.
We find nothing unreasonable in the stipulation concerning notice, and there was no attempt made to comply
with it. We therefore tlink the Supreme Court of Arkansas erred in holding that verbal notice to the dockmaster
of the condition of the peaches was a compliance with the
terms of the contract.
We may note that this case arose before the passage of
the Act of March 4, 1915, 38 Stat. 1196, regulating,
among other things, this feature of a bill of lading issued
under the Carmack Amendment.
On cross-writ of error, No. 796, a reversal is sought of

UNITED STATES v. MOREHEAD.
243 U. S.

Syllabus.

the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas as to the
five cars where the damaged condition of the peaches was
shown to be known to the longshoremen. This cross-writ
involves the liability of the carrier under the bill of lading
and it is assigned for error that the stipulation in question
violates the act of Congress known as the Hepburn Act
and the Carmack Amendment, and there are other reasons
assigned for the alleged invalidity of the stipulation in
the bill of lading. This court has jurisdiction upon the
cross-writ. As to these cars, we think the conclusion
reached by the Supreme Court of Arkansas was a correct
one, and upon the cross-writ of error the judgment is
affirmed. As to No. 275, the writ sued out by the railroad company, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion
of this court.
Reversed, in part, and Affirmed, in part.

UNITED STATES v. MOREHEAD.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 685. Argued March 14, 1917.-Decided April 30, 1917.
A charge of perjury may be based upon a valid regulation of the Land
Department requiring an affidavit, if the oath be taken "before a
competent tribunal, officer or person." United States v. ,Smuil, 236

U. S.405.
The Land Department being expressly charged with the duty of enforcing the public land laws by appropriate regulations, its regulations
in that regard, when duly promulgated, must be deemed valid if
they are not unreasonable, inappropriate, or inconsistent with the
acts of Congress.
A regulation of the Land Department requiring applicants for soldiers'

