OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

243 U. S.

HAWKINS v. BLEAKLY, AUDITOR OF THE STATE
OF IOWA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 35. Submitted January 24, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
November 13, 1916; reargued December 20, 1916.-Decided March 6,
1917.
As an incident to the establishment of an elective Workmen's Compensation System which (by admission in this case,) is free from constitutional objection, it is not violative of due process for a State to
withdraw the common-law defenses of assumption of risk, contributory negligence and negligence of fellow servants from those employers who voluntarily reject the system so established. New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, ante, 188.
In such case, also, the State may constitutionally provide that, in an
action against an employer who has rejected the Compensation Act,
the injury shall be presumed to have resulted directly from his
negligence and that the burden of rebutting the presumption shall
rest upon him.
The provisions in § 3 of the Iowa Workmen's Compensation Law,
Laws of Iowa, 35 G. A., c. 147; Iowa Code Supp., 1913, § 2477m,
requiring employees who reject the act to state by affidavit who,
if anyone, requested or suggested that course, and providing that
where an employer or his agent has made such request or suggestion,
the employee shall be conclusively presumed to have been unduly
influenced and his rejection of the act shall be void. Held, permissible regulation in aid of the general scheme of the act.
A Workmen's Compensation Act, which, prescribing the measure of
compensation and the circumstances under which it is to be made,
establishes a method of applying the measure to the facts of each
case by due hearings before an administrative -tribunal, whose action
upon all fundamental and jurisdictional questions is subject to
judicial review, is not open to objection upon the ground that it
clothes the administrative body with an arbitrary and- unbridled
discretion in violation of due process of law.
Trial by jury is not one of the rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.

HAWKINS v. BLEAKLY.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Iowa was not part of the Northwest Territory, nor subject to the Ordinance of July 13, 1787, enacted for the government of that Territory (1 Stat. 51).
The act establishing Iowa Territory (June 12, 1838, c. 96, 5 Stat. 235)
was but a regulation of territory belonging to the United States, and
such provision as it adopted from the Ordinance of 1787 respecting
the right of trial by jury, though declared to be unalterable without
common consent, was but a part of that regulation, was subject to
-repeal, and was superseded by the state constitution when Iowa was
admitted into the Union "on an equal footing with the original States
in all respects whatsoever."
Iowa is as much at liberty as any other State to abolish or limit the
right of trial by jury, or to provide for a waiver of that right, as is
done by the Workmen's Compensation Act, supra.
The Iowa Workmen's Compensation Act, supra, is held not to deprive
the employer of equal protection of the laws in allowing him the
common-law defenses of assumption of risk, contributory negligence
and negligence of fellow servants only when he has accepted the act
and the employee has not, while it withdraws them if employer and
employee both, or employer alone, have rejected it.
220 Fed. Rep. 378, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert Ryan, with whom Mr. James P. Hewitt,
Mr. R. Ryan and Mr. F. G. Ryan were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Henry E. Sampson, Assistant Attorney General
of the State of Iowa, with whom Mr. George Cosson,
Attorney General of the State of Iowa, and Mr. John T.
Clarkson were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought by appellant in the
United States District Court, to restrain the enforcement
of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Iowa,
approved April 18, 1913, relating to employers' liability

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

and workmen's compensation; it being c. 147 of Laws of
Iowa, 35 G. A.; embraced in Iowa Code, Supp. of 1913,
§ 2477m. The bill sets forth that complainant is an employer of laborers within the meaning of the act, but has
rejected its provisions, alleges that the statute is in contravention of the federal and state constitutions, etc., etc.
A motion to dismiss was sustained. by the District Court
(220 Fed. Rep. 378), and the case comes here by direct
appeal, because of the constitutional question, under
§ 238, Jud. Code.
Sinbe the decision below, the Supreme Court of Iowa, in
an able and exhaustive opinion, has sustained the act
against all constitutional objections, at the same time'
construing some of its provisions. Hunter v. Colfax Consolidated Coal Co., 154 N. W. Rep. 1037; 157 N. W. Rep.
145. Hence no objection under the state constitution is
here pressed, and we of course accept the construction
placed upon the act by the state court of last resort.
As to private employers, it is an elective workmen's
compensation law, having the same general features found
in the recent legislation of many of the States; sustained
by their courts. See Opinion of Justices, 209 Massachusetts, 607; Young v. Duncan, 218 Massachusetts, 346;
Borgnis v. Falk Co., 147 Wisconsin, 327; State, ex rel.
Yaple, v. Creamer, 85 Ohio St. 349; Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v.
Blagg, 235 U. S. 571; Sexton v. Newark Dist. Tel. Co., 84
N. J. L. 85; 86 N. J. L. 701; Deibeikis v. Link-Belt Co., 261
Illinois, 454; Crooks v. Tazewell Coal Co., 263 Illinois, 343;
Victor Chemical Works v. IndustrialBoard, 274 Illinois, 11;
Mathison v. Minneapolis Street Ry. Co., 126 Minnesota,
286; Shade v. Cement Co., 92 Kansas, 146; 93 Kansas, 257;
Sayles v. Foley (R. I.), 96 Atl. Rep. 340; Greene v. Caldwell, 170 Kentucky, 571; Middleton v. Texas Power &
Light Co. (Tex.), 185 S. W. Rep. 556. The main purpose
of the act is to establish, in all employments except those
of household servants, farm laborers, and casual employees,

HAWKINS v. BLEAKLY.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a system of compensation according to a prescribed
schedule for all employees sustaining injuries arising out of
and in the course of the employment and producing'
temporary or permanent disability, total or partial, and,
in case of death resulting from such injuries, a contribution towards the support of those dependent upon the
earnings of the employee; the compensation in either case
to be paid by the employer in lieu of other liability, and
acceptance of the terms of the act being presumed unless
employer or employee gives notice of an election to reject
them. To this main purpose no constitutional objection
is raised, the attack being confined to particular provisions
of the law.
Some of appellant's objections are based upon the
ground that the employer is subjected to a species of
duress in order to compel him to accept the compensation
features of the act, since%it is provided that an employer
rejecting these features shall not escape liability for personal injury sustained by an employee arising out of and
in the usual course of the employment because the employee assumed the risks of the employment, or because of
the employee's negligence unless this was willful and with
intent to cause the injury or was the result of intoxication,
or because the injury was caused by the negligence of a
co-employee. But it is clear, as we have pointed out in
New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, decided this day,
ante, 188, that the employer has no vested right to have
these so-called common-law defenses perpetuated for his
benefit, and that the Fourteenth Amendment does not
prevent a State from establishing a system of workmen's
compensation without the 'consent of the employer, incidentally abolishing the defenses referred to.
The same may be said as to the provision that in an
action against an employer who has rejected the act it
shall be presumed that the injury was the direct result of
his negligence, and that he must assume the burden of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

proof to rebut the presumption of negligence. In addition,
we may repeat that the establishment of presumptions,
and of rules respecting the burden of proof, is clearly
within the domain of the state governments, and that a
provision of this character, not unreasonable in itself and
not conclusive of the rights of the party, does not constitute a denial of due process of law. Mobile, Jackson &
Kansas City R. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 42.
Objection is made to the provision in § 3, that where an
employee elects to reject the act he shall state in an affidavit who, if anybody, requested or suggested that he should
do so, and if it be found that the employer or his agent
made such a request or suggestion, the employee shall be
conclusively presumed to have been unduly influenced,
and his rejection of the act shall be void. Passing the
point that appellant is an employer, and will not be heard
to raise constitutional objections that are good only from
the standpoint of employees (Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S.
152, 160; Rosenthal v. Nev York, 226 U..S. 260, 271;
Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 544;
Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576; Hendrick v.
Maryland, 235 U. S. 610, 621;) it is sufficient to say that
the criticised provision evidently is intended to safeguard
the employee from all influences that mighit be exerted by
the employer to bring about his dissent from the compensation features of the act. The lawmaker no doubt
entertained the 'view that the act was more beneficial to
employees than the common-law rules of employer's liability, and that it was highly improbable an employee would
reject the new arrangement of his own free will. The
provision is a permissible regulation in aid of the general
scheme of the act.
it is said that there is a denial of due process in that
part of the act which provides for the adjustment of the
compensation where the employer accepts its provisions.
In case of disagreement between an employer and an

HAWKINS v. BLEAKLY.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

injured employee, either party may notify the Industrial
Commissioner, who thereupon shall call for the formation
of an arbitration committee consisting of three persons,
with himself as chairman. The committee is to make
such inquiries and investigations as it shall deem necessary, and its report is to be filed with the Industrial Commissioner. If a claim for review is filed, the commissioner,
and not the committee, is to hear the parties, may hear
evidence in regard to pertinent matters, and may revise
the decision of the committee in whole or in part, or refer
the matter back to the committee for further findings of
fact. And any party in interest may present the order
or decision of the commissioner, or the decision of an
arbitration committee from which no claim for review has
been filed, to the district court of the county in which the
injury occurred, whereupon the court shall render a decree
in accordance therewith, having the same effect as if
it were rendered in a suit heard and determined by the
court, except that there shall be no appeal upon questions of fact or where the decree is based upon an order
or decision of the commissioner which has not been
presented to the court within ten days after the notice
of the filing thereof by the commissioner. With respect
to these provisions, the Supreme Court of Iowa held
(154 N. W. Rep. 1064): "Appeal is provided from the
decree enforcing the award on which all save pure questions of fact may be reviewed. . . . We hold that
though the act does not in terms provide for judicial
review, except by said appeal, the statute does not take
from the court all jurisdiction in the premises. . .
We are in no doubt that the very structure of the law of
the land, and the inherent power of the courts, would
enable them to interfere, if what we have defined to be
the jurisdiction conferred upon the arbitration committee
were by it exceeded-could inquire whether the act was
being enforced against one who had rejected it, whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

the claiming employ6 was an employ6, whether he was
injured at all, whether his injury was one arising out of
such employment, whether it was due to intoxication of
the servant, or self-inflicted or, acceptance being conceded, into whether an award different from the statute
schedules had been made, into whether the award were
tainted with fraud on part of the prevailing party, or of
the arbitration committee, and into whether that body
attempted judicial functions, in violation of or not granted
by the act." Thus it will be seen that the act prescribes
the measure of compensation and the circumstances under
which it is to be made, and establishes administrative
machinery for applying the-statutory measure to the facts
of each particular case; provides for a hearing before an
administrative tribunal, and for judicial review upon all
fundamental and jurisdictional questions. This disposes
of the contention that the administrative body is clothed
with an arbitrary and unbridled discretion, inconsistent
with a proper conception of due process of law. Plymouth
Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 545.
Objection is mad that the act dispenses with trial by
jury. But it is settled that this is not embraced in the
rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment. Walker
v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309,
340; New York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, ante, 188.
It is elaborately argued that, aside from the Fourteenth
Amendment, the inhabitants of the State of Iowa are
entitled to this right, because it was guaranteed by the
Ordinance of July 13, 1787, for the government of the
Northwest Territory, 1 Stat. 51, in these terms: "The
inhabitants of the said territory, shall always be entitled
to the benefits of . . . the trial by jury." The argument is rested, first, upon the ground that Iowa was a part
of the Northwest Territory. This is manifestly untenable,
since that Territory was bounded on the west by the
Mississippi River, and Iowa was not a part of it, but of

HAWKINS v. BLEAKLY.
243 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Louisiana Purchase. But, secondly, it is contended
that the guaranties contained in the Ordinance were extended to Iowa by the Act of Congress approved June 12,
1838, establishing a territorial government (c. 96, § 12,
5 Stat. 235, 239), and by the acts for the admission
of the State into the Union. Acts of March 3, 1845,
chaps. 48 and 76, 5 Stat. 742, 789; Act of August 4, 1846,
c. 82, 9 Stat. 52; Act of December 28, 1846, c. 1, 9 Stat.
117; 1 Poor, Chart..& Const., 331, 534, 535,-551. This is
easily disposed of. The Act of 1838 was no more than a
regulation of territory belonging to the United States,
subject to repeal like any such regulation; and the act for
admitting the State, so far from perpetuating any particular institution previously established, admitted it "on an
equal footing with the original States in all respects whatsoever." The regulation, although embracing provisions
of the Ordinance declared to be unalterable unless by
common consent, had no further force in Iowa after its
admission as a State and the adoption of a state constitution, than other acts of Congress for the government
of the Territory. All were superseded by the state constitution. Permoli v. First Municipality, 3 How. 589,
610; Coyle v. Oklahomq, 221 U. S. 559, 567, 570; Cincinnati v. Louisville & Nashville R*. R. Co., 223 U. S. 390, 401.
The State of Iowa, therefore, is as much at liberty as any
other State to abolish or limit the right of trial by jury;
or to provide for a waiver of that right, as it has done by
the act under consideration.
Section 5 is singled out for criticism, as denying to
employers the equal protection of the laws. It reads:
"Where the employer and employ6 elect to reject the
terms, conditions and provisions of this act, the liability
of the employer shall be the same as though the employ6
haa not rejected the terms, conditions and provisions
thereof." As we have shown, if the employer rejects the
act he remains liable for personal injury sustained by an

'OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

243 U. S.

employee, arising out of and in the usual course of the
employment, and is not to escape by showing that he had
exercised reasonable care in selecting competent employees in the business, or that the employee had assumed
the risk, or that the injury was caused by the negligence
of a co-employee, or even by showing that the plaintiff
was negligent, unless such negligence was willful and with
intent to cause the injury or was the result of intoxication
on the part of the injured party. This is the result whether
the employee on his part accepts or rejects the act. But
where the employee rejects it and the employer accepts
it, then, by § 3b, "the employer shall have the right to
plead and rely upon any and all defenses including those
at common law, and the rules and defenses of contributory negligence, assumption of risk and fellow-servant
shall apply and be available to the employer as by statute
authorized unless otherwise provided in this act;" with a
proviso not material to the present point. We cannot say
that there is here an arbitrary classification within the
inhibition of the "equal protection" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.' All employers are treated alike, and
so are all employees; and if there be some difference as
between employer and employee respecting the inducements that are held out for accepting the compensation
features of the act, it goes no further than to say that if
neither party is willing to accept them the employer's
liability shall not be subject to either of the several defenses referred to. As already shown, the abolition of
such defenses is within the power of the State, and the
legislation cannot be condemned when that power has
been qualifiedly exercised, without unreasonable discrimination.
Section 42 of the act provides: "Every employer, subject to the provisions of this act, shall insure his liability
thereunder in some corporation, association or organization approved by the state department of insurance.

MOUNTAIN TIMBER CO. v. WASHINGTON.
243 U. S.

219

Syllabus.

. . . And if such employer refuses, or neglects: to.
comply with this section, he shall be liable in caie of
injury to any workman in his employ under part one (1)
of this act." The Supreme Court of Iowa, in the Hunter
Case, said of § 42, 154 N. W. Rep. 4056: "This clearly
shows that no employer is compelled to insure unless he
bas accepted, and thus become subject to, the act";
proceeding, however, to discuss the case further upon the
hypothesis that all employers named in the act were compelled to maintain insurance. In view of the construction
adopted, it is unnecessary for us to pass upon the question
of compulsory insurance in this case, appellant not having
accepted the act.
Other contentions are advanced, but they are without
merit and call for no particular mention.
Decree affirmed.

MOUNTAIN TIMBER COMPANY v. STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF

WASHINGTON.

No. 13. Argued March 1, 2, 1916; restored to docket for reargument November 13, 1916; reargued January 30, 1917.-Decided March 6, 1917.
The Washington Workmen's Compensation Act, as originally enacted,
Laws 1911, c. 74, establishes a state fund for the compensation of'
workmen injured, and the dependents of workmen killed, in employments classed as hazardous; abolishes, except in a few specified cases,
the action at law by employee against employer for damages due to
negligence, and deprives the courts of jurisdiction over such controversies. 'It is obligatory upon both employers and employees. The
fund is made the sole source of compensation, and is supplied by assessments upon each employer of definite percentages of his total

