CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.

FOSTER-FOUNTAIN PACKING COMPANY ET AL V.
HAYDEL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 68. Argued April 18, 1928.-Decided October 15, 1928.
1. An order of the District Court refusing a temporary injunction
will not be disturbed on appeal unless the refusal was contrary to
some rule of equity, or was the result of improvident exercise of
judicial discretion. P. 6.
2. The Louisiana "Shrimp Act" declares all shrimp and parts thereof
in Louisiana waters to be the property of the State; forbids exportation of shrimp from which the heads and" hulls "or shells have
not been removed; but grants the taker a qualified interest which
may be sold within the State, and provides that the meat, when
the hulls are removed within the State, shall belong to the
taker or possessor and may be sold and shipped beyond the State
without restriction. The raw shells, "as they are required to be
manufactured into fertilizer or used for an element in chicken feed,"
are not to be exported, but, when "conserved for the purpose herein
stated," the right of property therein is to pass to the taker or possessor. Upon an application for a temporary injunction to restrain
enforcement of the Act, it was made to appear by allegations of
the bill and affidavits, and the provisions of the Act, that conservation of the heads and hulls is a feigned purpose; that the conditions
imposed upon the interstate movement of the meat and other parts
of the shrimp are not intended, and do not operate, to conserve them
272285-29-

1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of the Case.

278 U. S.

for the use of the people of the State, and that the real purpose of
the legislation is to prevent the raw shrimp from being moved, as
heretofore, from Louisiana to a point in Mississippi, where-they are
packed or canned and sold in interstate commerce, and thus,
through commercial necessity, to bring about the removal of these
packing and canning industries from Mississippi to Louisiana,
Held:
(1) One challenging the validity of a state enactment on the
ground that it is repugnant to the commerce clause, is not necessarily bound by the legislative declarations of purpose, but may
show that in their practical operation the provisions directly burden or destroy interstate commerce. P. 10.
(2) In determining what is interstate commerce, courts look to
practical considerations and the established course of business. Id.
(3) Interstate commerce embraces all the components of commercial intercourse among States. A state statute that operates
directly to burden any of its essential elements is invalid. Id.
(4) A State cannot prevent privately owned articles of trade
from being shipped and sold in interstate commerce on the ground
that they are required to satisfy local demands or because they are
needed by the people of the State. Id.
(5) The statute (upon the facts alleged) is not sustainable as an
exercise of the power of the State, as trustee for her people, to
conserve the shrimp, as common property, for intrastate use. Geer
v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519, distinguished. P. 11.
(6) Taking the shrimp, with authority from the State to ship
and sell all the products thereof in interstate commerce, ends the
trusts upon which the State is deemed to own and control the
shrimp for the benefit of her people, and those so taking them
necessarily thereby become entitled to the rights of private ownership and the protection of the commerce clause; they are not
bound to comply with, or estopped from objecting to enforcement
of, conditions that conflict with the Constitution. P. 13.
(7) From the record it clearly appears that refusal of a temporary
injunction was an improvident exercise of judicial discretion. P. 14.
Reversed.

APPEAL from an order of the District Court, of three

judges, refusing a temporary'injunction in a suit to restrain the enforcement of the Louisiana "Shrimp Act."
The case was argued with the one next following.

FOSTER PACKING CO. v. HAYDEL.
Argument for Appellants.

Messrs. William H. Watkins and W. Lee Guice, with
whom Mr. Gustave Lemle was on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Michael M. Irwin and John Dymond, Jr., with
whom Messrs. Percy Saint, Attorney General of Louisiana,
Peyton R. Sandoz, Assistant Attorney General, A. Giffen
Levy, and Leander H. Perez were on the brief, for
appellees.
Participation by complainants in bringing about passage
of the Act, and their acceptance of permits under it
estopped them from objecting to its constitutionality.
Shepard v. Barron, 194 U. S. 553; Rand-McNally & Co. v.
Kentucky, 215 U. S. 583; Wright v. Davidson, 181 U. S.
371; 6 R. C. L., p. 94, § 95; Andrus v. Police Jury, 41 La.
Ann. 697; Cooley on Taxation, p. 817; 6 Bigelow on
Estoppel, 6th ed., p. 509; Burroughs on Taxation, § 38;
Moore v. City, 32 La. Ann. 745; Ferguson v. Landram, 5
Bush (Ky.) 230; Booth Fisheries Co. v. Industrial
Comm'n, 271 U. S. 208; Daniels v. Tearney, 102jU. S.
415; Grand Rapids R. R. Co. v. Osborn, 193 U. S. 17.
The primary purpose of the statutes is to increase the
industries of the State, develop its resources, and add to
its wealth and prosperity, by causing to be located within
its borders the necessary plants for canning and packing
oysters and drying and canning of shrimp, and for the
manufacture of fertilizer from the hulls of the shrimp, to
be used for the benefit of the State, and primarily to be
sold within its borders.
It is established that the Fourteenth Amendment was
not designed to interfere with the power of a State to
prescribe regulations to promote the health, peace, morals,
education and good order of its people, and to legislate so
as to increase the industries of the State, develop its resources, and add to its wealth and prosperity. Citing
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, and other familiar cases
on the police power generally. See also Lacoste v. De-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellants.

278 U. S.

partment of Conservation, 151 La. 909, aff'd, 263 U. S.
545.
No one has a right to complain that the provisions of
the statute interfere with interstate commerce until he
has first shown that he has reduced the shrimp and oysters
to private possession.
A State has the absolute and unconditional right to
prohibit the removal of fish or game from the State.
Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; Lacy Act, 35 Stat.
1137. See Organv. State, 56 Ark. 267, and State v. Northern PacificExpress Co., 58 Minn. 403.
It would be legally impossible to deprive plaintiffs of
their property without due process of law until they have
acquired a property right in the shrimp and oysters, and
this they can have only as and when the State permits. McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391; Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 71; Smith v. Levinus, 8 N. Y. 472;. 3 Kent
Com., 415.
The State, in order to upbuild its industries and to
conserve its natural resources, prohibits the removal of
the hulls of shrimp and shell of the oysters from the
State, and requires that these be retained within its jurisdiction to be converted into valuable fertilizer for the use
and benefit of the inhabitants of the State. The State
has power to enact such laws. See State v. Harrub, 95
Ala. 176, .a case very similar to those at bar.
There is no discrimination between the plaintiffs and
any other corporation or between plaintiffs and any citizen or resident of Louisiana. None can remove thei
shrimp from the State without first removing the hulls,
nor the oysters without first removing the shells. Turner
v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38. Cf. Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240.
The statutes impose no burden after the shrimp and
oysters have become articles of commerce.

FOSTER PACKING CO. v. HAYDEL.
Opinion of the Court.

Having the unlimited authority to prohibit the shipment of shrimp beyond its limits, the State may permit
such shipment under certain restrictions, particularly if
the restrictions be reasonable and not violative of any
constitutional right or authority. State v. Harrub, 95
Ala. 187.
The Oyster and Shrimp Laws were adopted by the Legislature in pursuance of express authority delegated by
the Constitution of Louisiana, Art. VI, § 1.
The sale and export of shrimp in the hulls and of oysters
in the shell, are a wasteful use of these resources.
MR.JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellants, plaintiffs below, are engaged in the business
of catching and canning shrimp for shipment and sale in
interstate commerce. Appellees, defendants below, are
public officers in Lpuisiana charged with the duty of enforcing Act No. 103, known as the " Shrimp Act," passed
in July, 1926; so far as material here, it is printed in the
margin.* Plaintiffs sued to enjoin enforcement of certain
*"AN ACT

"To declare all shrimp and parts thereof in the waters of the State
to be the property of the State of Louisiana, and to provide the manner and extent of their reduction to private ownership; to encourage,
protect, conserve, regulate and develop the shrimp industry of the
State of Louisiana .
"Section 1 .... That all salt water shrimp existing in the waters of

this State, and the hulls and all parts of said salt water shrimp shall be
and are hereby declared to be the property of the State; until the title
thereto shall be divested in the manner and form herein authorized
and shall be under the exclusive control of the Department of Conservation of the State of Louisiana, until the right of private ownership shall vest therein as herein provided, and that no person, firm
or corporation shall catch or have in their possession, living or dead,
any salt water shrimp, or parts thereof, or purchase, sell or offer for
sale, any such shrimp or parts thereof, after the same have been
caught except as otherwise permitted herein.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

of its provisions on the ground, among others, that they
violate the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
The district judge granted a restraining order pending application for a temporary injunction. There was a hearing before the court, consisting of three judges, organized
as required by § 266 of the Judicial Code, U. S. C, Tit. 28
§ 380; it set aside the restraining order and denied the injunction. Then the court allowed this appeal, found that
the plaintiffs will sustain irreparable harm and damage,
and stayed the enforcement of the Act pending determination here.
The case has not been tried and the sole question is
whether, having regard to the particular facts and circumstances, the lower court's refusal to grant a temporary
injunction was contrary to some rule of equity or the re"Section 4. That the right to take salt water shrimp from the waters
of this State and the right to can, pack or dry the said shrimp when
caught are hereby granted to any resident of this State, to any firm
or association composed of residents of this State, or to any corporation domiciled in or organized under the laws of this State, operating
a canning or packing factory or drying platform in this State. These
rights shall be confined to such persons and corporations and are
granted subject to the further conditions hereinafter stipulated ...
"Section 13. All salt water shrimp and the shells or hulls and heads
of all salt water shrimp are hereby declared to be the property of the
State, and the shells or hulls and heads to be valuable for use as a
natural resource of the State as a fertilizer in the State; and it shall
therefore and hereafter be unlawful to export from the State of Louisiana any salt water shrimp from which the shell or hull and head shall
not have been removed.
"In order that all of the inhabitants of the State of Louisiana may
enjoy the State's natural food product, it shall be lawful to ship unshelled shrimp from any point in the State of Louisiana to any other
point in the State of Louisiana for edible consumption, subject to
such regulations and restrictions as may be imposed by the Department of Conservation. Any person, firm or corporation of this State
who shall lawfully take any shrimp from any waters of the State, or

lawfully acquire the same, shall

have a qualified interest or property

FOSTER PACKING CO. v. HAYDEL.
1

Opinion of the Court.

sult of improvident exercise of judicial discretion. Meccano, Ltd., v. John Wanjamaker, 253 U. S. 136, 141.
A brief statement of the allegations of the complaint
follows:
The Foster Company is a Louisiana corporation and
operates a shrimp hulling plant in that State. It gets
shrimp from the tidal waters in the "Louisiana Marshes."
The Sea Food Company is a Mississippi corporation and
cans and packs shrimp in its plant at Biloxi in that State.
Its product is shipped and sold in interstate commerce.
The Foster Company and the Sea Food Company have
a contract by which the former agrees to catch in Louisiana waters and deliver to the latter in Biloxi a carload of
raw shrimp per month during specified periods. The supin the shrimp so taken or acquired in the shells, which qualified interest may be sold or transferred to any other person, firm or corporation within the limits of the State; and after the edible portions of
the abdomen popularly called the tail meat of said shrimp shall have
been removed from the shell, within the State of Louisiana, such lawful taker or possessor, his heirs or assigns, as the case may be, shall
be vested with all of the rights and property of the State in and to
said shrimp tail meat and shall have the right to sell such shrimp tail
meat or ship the same beyond the limit of the State, without restriction or reservation.
"It shall be the duty of all licensees operating under the Department of Conservation in the shrimp industry in this State to conserve
for fertilizer purposes all shells or hulls and heads of salt water shrimp
and to report monthly, on blanks to be furnished by the Department
of Conservation, the quantity thereof on hand, to the Department of
Conservation. It shall be unlawful to export from the State of Louisiana any raw shells or hulls and heads of salt water shrimp as they
are required to be manufactured into fertilizer or used for an element
in chicken feed. When the shrimp hulls or shells and heads shall
have been conserved for the purposes herein stated, the right of property the'rein theretofore existing in the State shall pass to the lawful
taker or the possessor thereof. Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this section shall be liable to the penalties
hereinafter imposed,"

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

ply is intended for the interstate and foreign business of
the Sea Food Company; and, if prevented from obtaining
such shrimp, the business of that company will be destroyed and its plant will be of no value.
There are located at Biloxi plants comprising about onefourth of the shrimp canning industry in the United
States. The waters of Mississippi do not contain an adequate supply of shrimp and practically all that are packed
there come from the Louisiana Marshes. Shrimp are
taken by nets dragged by power boats, and are then put
on larger vessels and transported to Biloxi. To prepare
the meat for canning, the heads and hulls are picked off;
most of them are thrown into the water where they are
consumed by scavengers of the sea. But some are made
into " shrimp bran," which is used to a small extent in
the manufacture of commercial fertilizer.
The Act declares all shrimp and parts thereof in Louisiana waters to be the property of the State, and regulates
their taking and reduction to private ownership. It
grants the right to take, can, pack and dry shrimp to residents and also to corporations, domiciled or organized in
the State, operating a canning or packing factory or drying platform therein. § 4. It is made unlawful to export
from the State any shrimp from which the heads and hulls
have not been removed. But, in order that all its inhabitants "may enjoy the State's natural food product," the
Act declares it lawful to ship unshelled shrimp to any
point within the State. Whoever shall lawfully take
shrimp from the waters is granted a qualified interest
which may be sold within the State. And, when the tail
meat is removed within the State, the taker or possessor
has title and the right to sell and ship the same "beyond
the limit[s] of the State, without restriction or reservation." It is declared unlawful to export from the State
any raw shells or hulls and heads " as they are required
to be manufactured into fertilizer or used for an element

FOSTER PACKING CO. v. HAYDEL.
1

Opinion of the Court.

in chicken feed." But, when they have been " conserved
for the purpose herein stated, the right -of property therein
theretofore existing in the State shall pass to the lawful
taker or the possessor thereof." § 13. Penalties are prescribed for violations. § 19.
And the complaint alleges that for years shrimp taken
from Louisiana waters have been shipped out of the State
unshelled; that only a negligible amount of hulls and
heads of such shrimp as are consumed within the State
has ever been used as fertilizer; that the declared purpose
to conserve them is a subterfuge. And plaintiffs state
that, notwithstanding their willingness to pay all
charges, licenses and taxes imposed and to comply with all
the valid requirements, defendants, if not enjoined, will
prevent plaintiffs from taking or acquiring shrimp from
Louisiana waters to their great and irreparable loss.
At the hearing- on their motion for a temporary injunction, plaintiffs presented affidavits which tend to show the
facts following. By reason of favorable topographical, climatic, labor and other conditions, shrimp taken from the
Louisiana Marshes may be more conveniently and economically canned at Biloxi than in Louisiana near to the
source of supply. The Biloxi plants have long constituted
an important center of the industry, and they are
largely dependent upon the Louisiana Marshes for
their supply. The enforcement of the Act would injure
or destroy the shrimp business of plaintiffs and the
industry at Biloxi. About 95 per cent. of the shrimp obtained from the waters of Louisiana, when taken, is intended for consumption outside the State. Some shrimp
bran is made from the hulls and heads in Louisiana; but
all of it is shipped to Biloxi where it is used to make
fertilizer. It is worth less than one per cent. of the value
of the shrimp. Not more than half the hulls and heads
removed in Louisiana is used for any purpose. They have
no market value, cannot be sold or given away, and often
constitute a nuisance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

The facts alleged in the complaint, the details set forth
in plaintiffs' affidavits and the provisions of the Act to be
restrained show that the conservation of hulls and heads
is a feigned and not the real purpose. They support
plaintiffs' contention that the purpose of the enactment
is to prevent the interstate movement of raw shrimp from
the Louisiana Marshes to the plants at Biloxi in order
through commercial necessity to bring about the removal
of the packing and canning industries from Mississippi
to Louisiana. The conditions imposed by the. Act upon
the interstate movement of the meat and other products of
shrimp are not intended, and do not operate, to conserve
them for the use of the people of the State.
One challenging the validity of a state enactment on
the ground that it is repugnant to the commerce clause is
not necessarily bound by the legislative declarations of
purpose. It is open to him to show that in their practical
operation its provisions directly burden or destroy interstate commerce. Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313,
319. Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, 81. In determining what is. interstate commerce, courts look to practical considerations and the established course of business.
Swift and Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398.
Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50, 59. Binderup
v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291, 309. Shafer v. Farmers
Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189, 198, 200. Interstate commerce
includes more than transportation; it embraces all the
component parts of commercial intercourse among States.
And a state statute that operates directly to burden any
of its essential elements is invalid. Dahnke-Walker Co.
v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 290. Shafer v. FarmersGrain
Co., supra, 199. A State is without power to prevent
privately owned articles of trade from being shipped and
sold in interstate commerce on the ground that they
are required to satisfy local dem ands or because they are
needed by the people of the State. Penna. v. West Vir-

FOSTER PACKING CO. v. HAYDEL.
Opinion of the Court.

ginia, 262 U. S. 553, 596. Oklahoma v. Kansas Nat. Gas
Co., 221 U. S. 229, 255.
The authority of the State to regulate and control the
common property in game is well established. Geer v.
Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519, and cases cited at p. 528.
These and many other cases show that the State owns,
or has power to control, the game and fish within its
borders not absolutely or as proprietor or for its own use
or benefit but in its sovereign capacity as representative
of the people. In Geer v. Connecticut the Court, speaking through Mr. Justice White, said (p. 529): "Whilst
the fundamental principles upon which the common
property in game rests have undergone no change, the
development of free institutions has led to the recognition
of the fact that the power or control lodged in the State,
resulting from this common ownership, is to be exercised,
like all other powers of government, as a trust for the
benefit of the people, and not as a prerogative for the advantage of the government, as distinct from the people,
or for the benefit of private individuals as distinguished
from the public good. Therefore, for the purpose of exercising this power, the State, as held by this Court in
Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. [367] 410, represents its
people, and the ownership is that of the people in their
united sovereignty." In Lacoste v. Dept. of Conservation, La., 263 U. S. 545, we said (p. 549): "The wild animals within its borders are, so far as capable of ownership,
owned by the State in its sovereign capacity for the common benefit of all its people. Because of such ownership,
and in the exercise of its police power, the State may regulate and control the taking, subsequent use and property
rights that may be acquired therein."
Defendants rely on Geer v. Connecticut to sustain their
contention that the Act forbidding the shipping of raw
and unshelled shrimp out of the State was not in conflict
with the commerce clause. The statute of Connecticut

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

declared it unlawful to kill or possess any woodcock,
ruffled grouse, or quail for transportation, or to transport
them, beyond the limits of the State. The question was
whether the State had power to regulate the killing of
game so as wholly to confine its use within the limits of
the State. No part of the game was permitted by the
statute to become an Article of interstate commerce. The
Court said (p. 529) that the sole consequence of the provision was "to confine the use of such game to those who
own it, the people of that State" and that (p. 530) "in
view of the authority of the State to affix conditions to
the killing and sale of game . . . it may well be doubted
whether commerce is created by an-authority given by a
State to reduce game within its borders to possession, provided such game be not taken, when killed, withofft the
jurisdiction of the State. . . . Passing, however, as we
do, the decision of this question, and granting that the
dealing in game killed within the State . . . created internal State commerce, it does not follow that such internal commerce became necessarily the subject-matter of
interstate commerce, and therefore under the control of
the Constitution of the United States. . . . (p. 532).
The fact that internal commerce may be distinct from
interstate commerce, destroys the whole theory upon
which the argument of the plaintiff in error proceeds."
But that case is essentially unlike this one. The purpose of the Louisiana enactment differs radically from
the Connecticut law there upheld. It authorizes the
shrimp meat and bran, canned and manufactured within
the State, freely to be shipped and sold in interstate commerce. The State does not require any part of the shrimp
to be retained for consumption or use therein. Indeed
only a small part is consumed or needed within the State.
Consistently with the Act all may be, and in fact nearly
all is, caught for transportation and sale in interstate

FOSTER PACKING CO. v. HAYDEL.
Opinion of the Court.

commerce. As to such shrimp the protection of the commerce clause attaches at the time of the taking. DahnkeWalker Co. v. Bondurant, supra. Penna v. West Virginia, supra,596, et seq. As the representative of its people, the State might have retained the shrimp for consumption and use therein. But, in direct opposition to
conservation for intrastate use, this enactment permits
all parts of the shrimp to be shipped and sold outside the
State. The purpose is not to retain the shrimp for the
use of the people of Louisiana; it is to favor the canning
of the meat and the manufacture of bran in Louisiana by
withholding raw or unshelled shrimp from the Biloxi
plants. But by permitting its shrimp to be taken and all
the products thereof to be shipped and sold in interstate
commerce, the State necessarily releases its hold and, as to
the shrimp so taken, definitely terminates its control.
Clearly such authorization and the taking in pursuance
thereof put an end to the trust upon which the State is
deemed to own or control the shrimp for the benefit of
its people. And those taking the shrimp under the authority of the Act necessarily thereby become entitled
to the rights of private ownership and the protection of
the commerce clause. They are not bound to comply
with, or estopped from objecting to the enforcement of,
conditions that conflict with the Constitution of the
United States. Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania,277
U. S. 389. Power Co. v. Saunders, 274 U. S. 490, 493, 497.
Hanover Insurance Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S. 494, 507.
If the facts are substantially as claimed by plaintiffs,
the practical operation and effect of the provisions cornplained of will be directly to obstruct and burden interstate commerce. Penna v. West Virginia, supra. Oklahoma v. Kansas Nat. Gas Co., supra. The affidavits give
substantial and persuasive support to the facts alleged.
And as, pending the trial and determination of the case,

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

278 U. S.

plaintiffs will suffer great and irremediable loss if the
challenged provisions shall be enforced, their right to
have a temporary injunction is plain. From the record
it quite clearly appears that the lower court's refusal was
an improvident exercise of judicial discretion.
Decree reversed.

Separate opinion of MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.

I think the court below properly applied the correct
doctrine and that the challenged decree should be affirmed.
In Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519, 529, 534, this
Court upheld legislation by the State which permitted
woodcock, ruffled grouse and quail to be killed for transportation and sale within her borders, but forbade the
killing or possession of such birds when dead for transportation to other States. It accepted the rule relative
to dominion over animals ferae naturae as stated in Ex
parte Maier, 103 Calif. 476, [483]"The wild game within a state belongs to the people in
their collective, sovereign capacity; it is not the subject of
private ownership, except in so far as the people may elect
to make it so; and they may, if they see fit, absolutely
prohibit the taking of it, or any traffic or commerce in it,
if deemed necessary for its protection or preservation, or
the public good."
And commenting upon certain opinions which denied the
validity of statutes whereby shipments of game beyond
the State were prohibited, it said-" . . . but the reasoning which controlled the decision of these cases is, we
think, inconclusive, from the fact that it did not consider the fundamental distinction between the qualified
ownership in game and the perfect nature of ownership
in other property, and thus overlooked the authority of
the State over property in game killed within its con-

FOSTER PACKING CO. v. HAYDEL.
MCREYNOLDS,

15

J., dissenting.

fines, and the consequent power of the State to follow
such property into whatever hands it might pass with the
conditions and restrictions deemed necessary for the public interest."
Manifestly, Louisiana has full power absolutely to forbid interstate shipments of shrimp taken within her territory. These crustaceans belong to her and she may appropriate them for the exclusive use and benefit of citizens. If the State should conclude that the best interests
of her people require all shrimp to be canned or manufactured therein before becoming part of interstate commerce, nothing in the Federal Constitution would prevent
appropriate action to that end. This would not interfere
with any right guaranteed to an outsider. How wild life
may be utilized in order to advantage her own citizens is
for the producing State to determine. To enlarge opportunity for employment is one way, and often the most
effective way, to promote their welfare.
Certainly, I cannot accept the notion that the record
discloses any subterfuge-something resorted to for concealment-by Louisiana. And I think no weight should
be given to the gratuitous allegation of such purpose by
non-residents who are seeking to defeat control by the
State in order that they may secure benefits for themselves from wild life found therein.
Any profitable discussion of this controversy must take
into consideration the marked distinction between game
and property subject to absolute ownership. Cases like
Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, which

concern property of the latter kind are not persuasive
here. A State may regulate the sale and transportation
of wild things in ways not permissible where wheat is the
subject matter. Geer v. Connecticut, supra; Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S.31, 41; Clark Distilling Co. v. Western
Maryland Ry., 242 U. S. 311.

