UNITED STATES v. COMMONWEALTH LINE. 427
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. COMMONWEALTH AND DOMINION LINE, LTD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 21.

FOR THE

Argued January 7, 1929.-Decided January 21, 1929.

In a proceeding in admiralty against the United States for collision
losses, a special act granting jurisdiction to enter a decree in favor
of either party for the amount of damages and costs "upon the
same principles and measures of liability as in like cases in admiralty
between private parties and with the same rights of appeal" is to

be construed strictly, and no interest could be allowed against the
United States, though it filed a cross libel. The Thekla, 266 U. S.
328, distinguished. P. 427.
20 F. (2d) 729, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 521, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming an award of damages against
the United States in a collision case and adding interest.
The suit was brought by the present respondent under a
special Act of Congress. The United States prosecuted
a cross libel.

Assistant Attorney General Farnum,with whom Solicitor General Mitchell, and Messrs. J. Frank Staley and
John T. Fowler, Jr., were on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Allan B. A. Bradley, with whom Mr. George deF.
Lord was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a libel in admiralty against the United States as
owner of. the steam collier Proteus to recover damages
caused by a collision with the libellant's vessel Port
Phillip. The District Court and the Circuit Court of

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Appeals agreed in finding that the Proteus alone was in
fault, but the Circuit Court of Appeals modified the decree
against the United States by allowing interest on the
damages found. 20 F. (2d) 729. A writ of certiorari
was granted by this Court to review the decision as to
interest, consideration of the question to await the decision of this Court in the case of Boston $and and Gravel
Co. v. United States, which now has been decided, ante,
p. 41, and in which interest was denied.
Jurisdiction in Boston Sand and Gravel Co. v. United
States was granted by a special act authorizing judgment
"for the amount of the legal damages sustained by reason
of said collision, . . . upon the same principle and
measure of liability with costs as in like cases in admiralty
between private parties, with the same rights of appeal."
It was held in view of the history of legislation'that the
words were to be taken strictly and that no intirest could
be allowed against the United States. The present suit is
based upon the special Act of March 4, 1923, c. 321; 42
Stat. 1796, where the language is substantially the same,
except that it is further qualified; jurisdiction of the suit
is granted "to the extent only of such damages suffered
other than claims for the demurrage to [the Port Phillip]
and to enter a judgment or decree for the amount of such
damages and costs, if any, as shall be found to be due
against the United States in favor of the owner of the
British steamer Port Phillip or against such owner in
favor of the United States, upon the same principles and
measures of liability as in like cases in admiralty between
private parties and with the same rights of appeal." The
only ground of distinction favorable to the Port Phillip
is that in this case the United States filed a cross libel.
It is urged that in view of that fact the principle of
United States v. The Thekla, 266 U. S. 328, applies.
But the difference between the two cases is plain. In
The Thekla the United States came into Court of its own

LARSON v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
427

Syllabus.

motion as a libellant, and it was held that when the soye-reign thus voluntarily brought itself within the jurisdiction in a collision case it should be assumed to agree
that justice should be done with regard to the subject
matter, and therefore that it might be held liable in damages if its vessel was in fault. The main question in the
case was whether the United States could be held at all.
When that point was decided interest was allowed as generally it would be allowed against a private party, there
being nothing to qualify the submission found to be implied. But in the present case the United States is
brought into Court to defend its property under a statute
that marks the limits of the liability assumed. The cross
libel is really an incident of the suit, contemplated by the
very words of the special act which provide for a decree in
favor of either party, and it would be absurd to say that
if the United States resorted to the usual instruments of
defence the statute authorized what otherwise it did not
allow.
Decree reversed.
LARSON v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 102. Argued January 8, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.
1. A construction by a State Supreme Court of a contract between
the State and an individual, is not binding on this Court when
assailed under the Contract Clause of the Federal Constitution.
P. 433.
2. A statute of South Dakota empowers municipal authorities to grant
leases to operate ferries upon waters within the State to persons
who shall bid and secure the highest rent for the same; declares
it unlawful to operate a ferry without a license; and provides
that when a lease has been granted, another shall not be granted
across the same stream within two miles of the ferry landing
of the first. After the plaintiff, by complying with the statute,

