492

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

hardships are incidents of every system of taxation and
do not render the legislation obnoxious to the Federal
Constitution.1 General American Tank Car Corp. v.
Day, 270 U. S. 367.
Whether the State's power to tax the privilege of taking
by will or descent property within its jurisdiction is in any
way limited by the Fourteenth Amendment has not been
argued. As we are of opinion that none of the objections
urged can be sustained, we have no occasion to consider
that question. Compare Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137,
140.
Affirmed.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MIX ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 118.

Argued January 10, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

1. A railroad company engaged in interstate commerce cannot oe
subjected to an action in a state court entailing a burden upon or an
obstruction of its interstate commerce, brought under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act without its consent in a State where
the cause of action did not arise and where the company has no
railroad and where it has not been admitted to do business and
transacts none other than the soliciting of freight for transportation in interstate commerce over itslines in other States. P. 494.
2. The mere fact that the plaintiff acquired a residence in the State
of suit after the cause of action arose and before commencing the
action, does not take the case out of this rule. P. 495.
See, also, State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.575, 612; Bell's Gap
R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.232; Merchant's Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461, 464; Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings
Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Travellers' Insurance Co. v. Connecticut, 185
U. S. 364; Beers v. Glynn, 211 U. S.477, 485; Citizens' Telephone
Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 331; Northwestern Life Insurance Co. v.
Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132, 137, 141; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S.
525, 543; Southern Ry. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S.519, 526.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL v. MIX.
492

Opinion of the Court.

3. T-he railroad company cannot be constrained to try such an action
by a rule of local practice making its motion to quash the summons equivalent to a general appearance. P. 495.
4. Filing a petition to remove from state to federal court is not
a general appearance. Id.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI,

277 U. S. 581, to a judgment of the

Supreme Court of Missouri denying an application of the
Railroad Company praying for a writ of prohibition to
enjoin the judges of a lower court from trying an action
against the Company, brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. Charles A. Houts, with whom Mr. J. W. Dohany
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Arthur Stahl and E. D. Andrews submitted for
respondents.
Mr. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Thomas Doyle, a switchman employed by the Michigan
Central Railroad, was killed in Michigan in the performance of his duties. He was then a resident of Lansing in
that State; and there his wife Augusta lived with him
until his death. Shortly after, she removed to Missouri;
was appointed administratrix of his estate at St. Louis;
and, as such, brought in the Circuit Court of that city an
action for damages against the Railroad under the Federal
Safety Appliance Act ,and the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The Railroad is a Michigan corporation. No
part of its line runs into Missouri. It has not consented to
be sued there; has never been admitted to do business
there; and has never done any business there, except soliciting freight for transportation in interstate commerce
over its lines in other States. For this limited purpose it

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

maintains an office at St. Louis. Upon its agent in charge
of that office the sheriff made service of the summons.
The Railroad, appearing specially, filed a petition for
removal of the cause to the federal court. This the state
court denied. Thereupon, the Railroad filed a transcript
of the record in the federal court and moved there to quash
the summons. Upon objection of the administratrix, that
court declined to pass on the motion and remanded the
case to the state court. It did so apparently on the ground
that the suit was one under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The Railroad, again appearing specially,
pressed in the state court the motion to quash. It was denied on the authority of State ex rel. Texas Portland
Cement Co. v. Sale, 232 Mo. 166, and Davis v. Jacksonville
Southeastern Line, 126 Mo. 69, which hold that service
upon a soliciting freight agent confers jurisdiction and that
a petition to remove to the federal court is equivalent to a
general appearance. After denial of the motion to quash
the summons this application for a writ of prohibition was
filed by the Railroad, in the highest court of the State, in
accordance with what appears to be the appropriate local
practice. It prays that the judges of the Circuit Court be
enjoined from acting in the suit commenced by Mrs.
Doyle. The application for the writ of prohibition was
denied without an opinion. That judgment is final within
the meaning of ยง 237a of the Judicial Code. Missouri ex
rel. St. Louis, Brownsville & Mexico Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 266
U. S. 200. This Court granted a writ of certiorari, 277
U. S. 581.
The Railroad claims that it was not subject to suit in
Missouri, among other reasons, because to maintain it
would violate the commerce clause. In order to show that
trial of the action for damages in Missouri would entail a
heavy burden upon, and unreasonably obstruct, interstate
commerce, it set forth facts substantially identical with
those held sufficient for that purpose in Davis v. Farmers

MICHIGAN CENTRAL v. MIX.
492

Opinion of the Court.

Co-operative Co., 262 U. S. 312, and Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Wells, 265 U. S. 101. From those
cases that here involved differs only in this: There, the
plaintiff was a non-resident. Here, the plaintiff had become a resident in Missouri after the injury complained of,
but before instituting the action. For aught that appears
her removal to St. Louis shortly after the accident was
solely for the purpose of bringing the suit; and because
she was advised that her chances of recovery would be better there than they would be in Michigan. The mere fact
that she had acquired a residence within Missouri before
commencing the action does not make reasonable the imposition upon interstate commerce of the heavy burden
which would be entailed in trying the cause in a State remote from that in which the accident occurred and in
which both parties resided at the time.
The case is unlike others in which the jurisdiction was
sustained against a non-resident railroad. In Missouri ex
rel. St. Louis, Brownsville & Mexico Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 266
U. S. 200, it appeared that the shipment out of which the
cause of action arose was of goods deliverable in Missouri;
and also that the negligent acts complained of may have
occurred within the State. In Hoffman v. Missouri ex rel.
Foraker,274 U. S. 21, the railroad was organized under the
laws of the State, and operated a part of its line in the
county in which the action was brought.
The contention that filing the petition for removal to
the federal court was equivalent to the entry of a general
appearance is obviously unsound. General Investment
Co. v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261, 268-9; Hassler v.
Shaw, 271 U. S. 195. There is also a suggestion that the
motion to quash the summons made by the Railroad, in
the state court after the remand, operated, under the Missouri practice, as a general appearance, York v. Texas, 137
U. S. 15; and that this precluded it from objecting to a
trial of the cause within that State. We have no occasion

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

278 U. S.

to enquire into the local practice. The constitutional
claim sustained in Davis v. Farmers Co-operative Co., 262
U. S. 312, was not that under the Fourteenth Amendment
as in Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260 U. S.
516. It was assumed that the carrier had been found
within the State. The judgment was reversed on the
ground that to compel it to try the cause there would burden interstate commerce and, hence, would violate the
commerce clause. No local rule of practice can prevent
the carrier from laying the appropriate foundation for the
enforcement of its constitutional right by making a seasonable motion. Compare Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235
U. S. 197; Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. v. Mullins,
249 U. S. 531; Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S. 22, 24.
Reversed.
WESTERN & ATLANTIC RAILROAD v. HUGHES,
ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF GEORGIA.

No. 234.

Argued January 18, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

1. Evidence in an action by an administratrix under the Employers'
Liability Act held sufficient to go to the jury on the question of
negligence and for computing damages on the basis of the present
value of anticipated benefits. P. 498.
2. When a charge to the jury correctly states the applicable rule,
a party desiring more detailed instruction should request it.
P. 499.
37 Ga. App. 771, affirmed.
CERTIORaRI,

278 U. S. 588, to a judgment of the Court

of Appeals of Georgia sustaining a recovery under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. The Supreme Court
of Georgia refused a certiorari.
Mr. FitzgeraldHall, with whom Messrs. Frank Slemons
and Walton Whitwell were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Reuben R. Arnold for respondent.

