EXCHANGE TRUST CO. v. DRAINAGE DIST. 421
367

Syllabus.

position of the sewage through other means than the Lake
diversion.
Though the restoration of just rights to the complainants will be gradual instead of immediate it must be continuous and as speedy as practicable, and must include
everything that is essential to an effective project.
The Court expresses its obligation to the Master for his
useful, fair, and comprehensive report.
To determine the practical measures needed to effect the
object just stated and the period required for their completion there will be need for the examination of experts;
and the appropriate provisions of the necessary decree will
require careful consideration. For this reason, the case
will be again referred to the Master for a further examination into the questions indicated. He will be authorized
and directed to hear witnesses presented by each of the
parties, and to call witnesses of his own selection, should
he deem it necessary to do so, and then with all convenient speed to make report of his conclusions and of a form
of decree.
It is so ordered.
EXCHANGE TRUST COMPANY v. DRAINAGE DISTRICT NO. 7, POINSETT COUNTY, ARKANSAS,
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 114. Argued January 9, 1929.-Decided January 21, 1929.
1. Irregularties in proceedings for the annexation of new lands to a
special improvement district and for assessment of benefits may be
cured by an act of the legislature confirming a reassessment. P. 424.
2. A settler under the homestead law who invited and secured
an annexation of his land to a state drainage district and
afterwards obtained his equitable title through a final entry of the

42j

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

land, is estopped from asserting that the assessment subsequently
imposed on him for the benefits accruing from the drainage are
void because the land was owned by the United States at the time
of such annexation. Lee v. Oceola Road District, 268 U. S. 643,
distinguished. P. 425.
3. Independently of estoppel, the defense of governmental immunity
is inapplicable, since the drainage plan and proposed assessments
affecting the land in question were filed after the homesteader had
received his final certificate, and were approved, and the work
done, after he had received his patent. P. 425.
175 Ark. 934, affirmed in part. Reversed in part by a consent order.

This suit was begun by Rice and revived by his abovenamed executor in the Chancery Court, Arkansas. Its
purpose was to set asidq various special assessments on
Rice's land, made by the Drainage District, and others
made by its co-defendant, the St. Francis Levee District,
and resulting foreclosures, deeds, etc. A decree granted
the plaintiff by the Chancery Court was reversed by the
decree of the State Supreme Court here reviewed. The
controversy with the Levee District is settled by a consent order set forth in the opinion.
Messrs. Arthur L. Adams and J. A. Tellier, with whom
Messrs. D. F. Taylor, John S. Mosby, and H. M. Cooley
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. R. B. McCulloch with whom Mr. Burke Mann was
on the brief, for St. Francis Levee District.
Mr. Charles D. Friersonappeared and was on the brief
for Drainage District No. 7.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Roy Rice and others were homesteaders under the
United States statutes upon lands of the Government
situate in Poinsett County, Arkansas. The lands were in
Drainage District No. 7 of Poinsett County. Drainage

EXCHANGE TRUST CO. v. DRAINAGE DIST. 423
421

Opinion of the Court.

District No. 7 had been organized under a special act of
the Legislature of Arkansas. Arkansas Acts of 1917,
p. 1053. As originally formed, the district consisted of
]ands west of the St. Francis River in Poinsett County.
Rice and others had their homestead locations in that
county east of the St. Francis River. Their lands were
flooded by the waters of a drainage district organized in
Mississippi County. In order to secure protection
against such flood waters, and to secure better drainage
to their own lands, they petitioned the county court to
allow their lands to be added to Drainage District No. 7
of Poinsett County. On March 15, 1918, the petition for
annexation of the homestead lands of Rice and others east
of the river was acted upon by the county court, and the
order of annexation was made. It provided that there
should be levied against the lands annexed assessments
in accordance with the benefits which the lands should
receive from the cost of the drainage. The board of
directors of the original drainage district consented to this
in open court. On May 24, 1919, the drainage district
altered its plans so as to provide for and include in the
new assessments the drainage of the territory of the original district on the west side of the river. A judgment
was entered reciting the annexation of the lands and the
confirmation of it by the General Assembly of Arkansas.
Arkansas Special Acts, 1919, p. 52.
On June 28, 1919, the county court entered a judgment
making a modification of the drainage assessments because
of the change of plans. It recited that the estimated
cost of the entire improvement had been increased to
$3,392,000. On June 23, 1919, the county court confirmed the assessments made upon the lands annexed
as well as the assessments upon the other lands in the
district. Nearly all lands embraced in the annexation
to the district, including the land of plaintiff, belonged
to the United States at the time the original district was

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

organized in 1917, but prior to June 23, 1919, Rice and
practically all the other homesteaders of the United States
in this district received their final certificates of entry
or their patents on the land herein involved. After that
date, on April 5, 1922, the board of directors of the district filed a report in the county court stating that the
assessment of benefits had become unequal and offered
a complete re-assessment of benefits upon all the lands
in the district, including the annexed lands. And on
May 31, 1922, the county court made an order establishing a readjustment of the assessment of benefits. Rice
died, and the Exchange Trust Company succeeded him
as his executor. This suit was brought to enjoin the
enforcement of the assessments on his property in the
drainage district, on the ground that the assessments were
made while the land in question was the property of the
United States, and before Rice's title had ripened into
ownership.
The plaintiff's contention was that the drainage assessments were void on the authority of Lee v. Osceola &
Little River Road Improvement District No. 1 of Mississippi County, Arkansas, 268 U. S. 643. In that case it
was held that a State could not impose special taxes on
lands acquired by private owners from the United States
on account of benefits resulting from a road improvement
made before the United States parted with its title. In
this case the Chancellor of the state court held that the
Lee case applied, and enjoined the enforcement of the
assessments. The Supreme Court of Arkansas held that
Rice and his executor were estopped to object to the
collection of the assessments. 175 Ark. 934.
Objection was made to the defects in the proceedings
of annexation, but they were cured by an act of the Legis-lature covering the re-assessment, which was approved
and confirmed March 23, 1923. It is quite clear that this

EXCHANGE TRUST CO. v. DRAINAGE DIST. 425
421

Opinion of the Court.

curative act was completely effective. Read v. City of
Plattsmouth, 107 U. S. 568; National Bank v. County of
Yankton, 101 U. S. 129; Utter v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 416;
Town of Thompson v. Perrine, 103 U. S. 806.
But however this may be, it is clear that Rice and his
associates deliberately sought the benefit of the annexation of the lands to the east of the river, acquired it and
are now enjoying it, and that they can not now be heard
to question the validity of the assessments invited by
them for the very purpose of securing the benefits conferred. This fully distinguishes the Lee case.
Nor is it even necessary to resort to the principles of
estoppel in pais in this case. The record shows that the
lands were annexed by the county court order of March
15, 1918; that the plans for improvement east of the St.
Francis River were not filed until May 24, 1919; and that
the first assessment filed affecting the lands in controversy
was on May 24, 1919. Neither the plans nor the assessments were approved until June 23, 1919. The first
bonds issued affecting the lands here involved were issued
August 1, 1919. By June, 1919, Rice and practically all
the other land owners who petitioned for the annexation
had received final certificates of entry from the United
States. By those certificates they acquired the equitable
title to the land, and that became subject to taxation and
assessment, even though the legal title remained in the
United States. Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S. 219, 229;
Bothwell v. Bingham County, 237 U. S. 642, 647; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 21 Ark. 240; s. c. 4 Wall. 210. Moreover, the record shows that the final certificate was issued
to Rice February 14, 1919, and that a patent was issued to
him June 3, 1919. It follows that the work to be done
for the benefit of these lands was not done until after the
full legal title had passed to Rice.
Decree affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

There was another issue in this case when it first came
here. This concerned assessments upon the St. Francis
Levee District which Rice and his associates also sought
to enjoin. At the argument, the parties agreed upon a
consent order in respect to the Levee District as follows:
"This cause came on to be heard at this term, and was
argued by counsel; and thereupon, upon- consideration
thereof, counsel for defendant in error, St. Francis Levee
District, consenting, it was ordered, adjudged and decreed
as follows, viz:
"That the prayer of the complaint for cancellation
of decrees of foreclosure in favor of defendant in error,
St. Francis Levee District, is granted and said decrees are
cancelled and held for naught as clouds upon the title to
said lands; and said St. Francis Levee District is forever
enjoined from taxing or attempting to tax said lands to
pay for improvements made or administrative or other
expenses incurred prior to issuing of final certificate by
the United States; that said lands are subject to tax for
the cost of improvements, administrative, or other expenses of said St. Francis Levee District contracted for
subsequent to the issuing of final certificate from the
United States and the Supreme Court of Arkansas is reversed in so far as the judgment is inconsistent herewith,
and the cause is remanded to the Supreme Court of Arkansas for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
conclusion.
"Mandate will issue accordingly."
The above opinion and the agreed order dispose of the
whole case so far as this Court is concerned. The Supreme Court of Arkansas will be at liberty to take such
further action in the case as may be in keeping with the
local law and not inconsistent with our opinion and agreed
order.

