300

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

required the Shipping Board to take over the charter itself for the transportation of chrome ore. This it did not
do. The charter was not appropriated or kept alive for
the use of the Government. See Omnia Co. v. United
States, 261 U. S.502, 513; Union Petroleum S. S. Co. v.
United States (C. C. A.), 18 F. (2d) 752, 753.
In short, the findings show no facts entitling the respondents to recover compensation. from the United States
under the provisions of the Act of 1917. And the judgment is
Reversed.

UNITED FUEL GAS COMPANY ET AL. V. RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF KENTUCKY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 1. Argued November 28, 1927. Reargued October 15, 16,
192.-Decided January 2, 1929.
1. Federal courts having jurisdiction of a cause through questions
raised under the Federal Constitution, may pass on all questionsof state law involved. P. 307.
2. Parties who have procured action by a state commission under a
state statute, may not assail that action in a federal court of equity
upon the ground that that statute, or the one creating the commission, is void under the state constitution. P. 307.
3. A State may compel a public service company to continue to use
its facilities to supply an existing need so long as it continues to do
business elsewhere in the State. P. 308.
4. A public service company is bound by the common law, if not by
statute, to render its service at reasonable rates; and if the rates
fixed by a state commission are not shown to be confiscatory, a suit
in equity to enjoin their enforcement will not lie merely because
the order purporting to impose them was void for other reasons
under the state or federal constitution. P. 309.
5. A public utility seeking to set aside as confiscatory a rate fixed by
state authority, has the burden of proving by clear and convincing
evidence the value of property on which it is constitutionally entitled
to earn a fair return. P. 313.

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

301

Argument for Appellants.

6. In an attack on rates fixed for a company supplying gas to consumers in Kentucky which was a subsidiary of a West Virginia
company owning, leasing and operating extensive natural gas fields
in the latter State, it was sought to prove the value of the West
Virginia gas rights in order that a portion of it might be allocated
to the subsidiary, and the method adopted depended on an estimate of the quantity of available gas in the lands and a computation of the profits that would accrue if, during the next eighteen
years, this were extracted, piped to a place in Pennsylvania where
there was a market for fuel gas free from public regulation, and
there sold at current prices. Held that the value, so computed,
of property used in a business whose rates are regulated, could
not be accepted; for not only was it made to depend on an
assumed earning capacity, but also the evidence of this earning
power was too speculative because, among other possible objections, it rested on predictions that the prices would remain unregulated for a long future period, and that gas, to the amount
estimated, would be available as required and could be sold at
those prices through that period in a market yet to be established,
despite future inventions and improved business and manufacturing methods; and a prediction of what plant and equipment must
be constructed and maintained to effect delivery of gas for that
period, and of the cost of maintaining and operatirg it. P. 317.
7. A public service corporation may not make a rate confiscatory
by reducing its net earnings through the device of a contract
unduly favoring a subsidiary or a corporation owned by its shareholders. P. 320.
13 F. (2d) 510, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed a bill for an injunction to restrain the Railroad
Commission of Kentucky from establishing an alleged
confiscatory rate for the sale of natural gas.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs S. S. Willis,
Harold A. Ritz, Douglas M. Moffat, and Edward L. Pat-

terson were on the brief, for appellants.
The order requiring the plaintiffs to continue gas serv-

ice to the cities after the expiration of the franchises, is

invalid under the Kentucky Constitution.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellants.

278 U. S.

The Kentucky statute, Chapter 61 of 1920, is void so
far as it affects the plaintiffs, because that part of the subject-matter of such statute which the Railroad Commission undertook to enforce against the plaintiffs is not
embraced in the title.
The orders are void for the reason that there was no
evidence upon which they could be based or justified, nor
was there any finding of essential facts upon which to
predicate them.
The Kentucky statute does not provide for any judicial
review of the acts of the Railroad Commission. In such
a case, before a rate can be held to be extortionate, there
must be evidence offered and a finding made based upon
that evidence which justifies the conclusion. Wichita
R. R. & Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 260 U. S.
48; Illinois Central R. R. v. Kentucky R. R. Comm'n, 1
F. (2d) 805; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. L. & N.
R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88.
The court erred in fixing the value of the gas rights
or leaseholds o the appellants for the reason that its finding is in conflict with the uncontradicted evidence that
their value is at least $30,000,000.00.
It is well settled by the decisions of this Court that in
arriving at a rate base the matter to be determined is the
present fair value of the property which enters into it
and not the original cost of that property, whether the
latter be greater or less than the former. Wilcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19; Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352; Bluefield Water Works v. Public Service
Comm'n, 262 U. S. 679; Ohio Utilities Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 267 U. S. 359; Board of Comm'rs v.
N. Y. Telephone Co., 271 U. S. 23; McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S. 400.
If it be shown that the price provided in the contract
between the two companies is reasonable, then the fact
of their relationship, because of stock ownership, becomes

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Argument for Appellants.

unimportant. Houston v. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co.,
259 U. S. 318; Missouri ex rel. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co.
v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 276; Indiana Bell
Tel. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 300 Fed. 190.
In order to determine the reasonableness of the price
fixed in this contract, it would of course be necessary to
make an inquiry as to the value of the property of the
United Fuel Gas Company, its expenses of operation and
the receipts therefrom. Such an inquiry was equally
necessary upon the theory adopted by the court below
that the combined properties are to be regarded as a unit
in determining the rate base.
To meet appellants' testimony as to the value of the
gas rights and properties, the appellee introduced nothing except the evidence of the amount paid by the United
Fuel Company for the acreage in the beginning. This
evidence, which the court below considered as the only
competent evidence, is its cost long before the rise in
prices and at a time when development had not proven
the value of the territory for natural gas production. Cf.
McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S. 400. We
submit that instead of taking the most reliable evidence as
to value, the court below attributed exclusive weight to
the least reliable evidence. thereof. No'contention is
made by any of the experts for the appellees that
$6,732,920.00 is anything like the present value of the
property. Indeed, the appellees have not undertaken
to present any evidence as to its present fair value aside
from the actual cost.
Appellants' evidence of the value of the gas rights
should have been accepted. Erie v. Public Service
Comm'n, 278 Penn. 512; Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 211 App. Div. (N. Y.) 253; Peoples Gas
& Electric Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 214 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 108.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellants.

278 U. S.

In Charlestonv. Public Service Comm'n, 95 W. Va. 91,
the court had no such evidence before it as was given in
this case by some of the witnesses; also, the method of
arriving at the estimate of the quantities of gas in the
ground had not at that time been so well established and
proven as it was at the time of this inquiry.
The testimony would have been competent to prove
value in a condemnation suit or for any other purpose;
but it is urged that some other or different character of
proof must be offered when we come to show the value for
rate-making purposes. It is not suggested what other kind
of proof could have been offered. A reliable opinion as to
the money value of such property is scarcely to be had
except from those interested in the same business. The
devotion of private property to the public service for compensation fixed by a public rate-making body is in the
nature of the exercise of the power of eminent domain,
and the same sort of evidence which would be competent
and sufficient to prove value in a condemnation proceeding is allowable here.
The court erred when arriving at the value of plaintiffs' plant in not making proper allowances for interest
during construction, cost of financing and overhead
charges.
The court erred in refusing to allow any more than
$3,000,000 for going concern value.
The court erred in holding that depletion and amortization could be amply provided for by an allowance of 41/27%
of the depreciable and depletable rate base, and 112% to
,meet charges for depreciation, repair and replacement.
The court erred in including in the earnings of the appellants one-half of the net earnings from the extraction
of gasoline by the Virginian Gasoline and Oil Company.
The court erred in holding that the rates fixed by the
Railroad Commission were not confiscatory.

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John T. Diederich, with whom Messrs. Frank E.
Daugherty, Attorney General of Kentucky, Overton S.
Hogan, Assistant Attorney General, and Vernon A. Dinkle
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal from a final decree of the District
Court for eastern Kentucky denying an injunction restraining the appellee, the Railroad Commission of Kentucky, from establishing an alleged confiscatory rate for
the sale of natural gas in the cities of Ashland, Catlettsburg, and Louisa, Kentucky, or in the alternative from
preventing appellants from withdrawing their service in
the sale and distribution of natural gas to consumers in
those cities. 13 F. (2d) 510. The case comes here on direct appeal under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code, the decree
of the district court having been entered before the effective date of the Jurisdictional Act of February 13, 1925.
The case was argued here with -No. 4, United Fuel Gas
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n of W. Va., decided this
date, post, p. 322, which involves some questions considered in the opinion in this case.
Appellant, United Fuel Gas Company, a West Virginia
corporation, also appellant in No. 4, is efigaged in the
business of producing natural gas from gas fields located
principally in West Virginia, which it sells to consumers
in West Virginia, Kentucky and Ohio. A part of its business is the sale of gas wholesale to distributors in West
Virginia, and has not been subjected to regulation by any
public body. Its local business in Kentucky is subjected
to regulation by appellee. It formerly held franchises
for the sale and distribution of gas in the Kentucky cities
named, all of which had expired by July, 1918. Nevertheless, it continued its service in those cities until June,
1923, when it organized appellant Warfield Natural Gas
27228-29-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Company, a Kentucky corporation, whose stock it owns
and to which it conveyed its property in Kentucky and
which has since carried on its business of distributing gas
in the cities named. The United Company then purported to withdraw from all its business in Kentucky by
cancelling appointments of agents to receive service of
process within the state and by notifying the Secretary
of State of its action.
B~efore the organization of the Warfield Company proceedings were had before the commission which resulted
in its order directing a reduction of rates by the United
Company to 80% of the former rate of 40 cents per 1,000
cubic feet, less 5 cents for prompt payment. Promptly
on its organization the Warfield Company filed with the
commission a new rate schedule for the cities named of
45 cents per 1,000 cubic feet, with a reduction of 5 cents
for punctual payment, and petitioned the commission
to establish this rate as fair and reasonable or, in the
alternative, to permit it to withdraw its service from those
cities. After an extensive hearing the commission denied
the application and construed its earlier order as requiring a rate of 28 cents (80% of 35 cents).
The present suit was then brought in the district court.
That court construed the order of the commission as fixing a 32 cent rate, which it upheld, and enjoined the commission from imposing any lower rate. From the latter
part of the decree no appeal was taken.
The present appeal challenges the constitutionality of
the order of the commission, as construed by the court,
under the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal Constitution, both because the rate is confiscatory and because
the order, which under the Kentucky statutes is not subject to judicial review, was not supported by findings of
the commission. The validity of the order is also assailed
on the further grounds that the part of it which required
appellants to continue to render service violates the Ken-

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

tucky constitution and that the commission itself was
never constitutionally created, and hence was without
jurisdiction, because the legislative act establishing the
commission and giving it its authority is in violation
of ยง 51 of the Kentucky constitution, which provides that
no legislative act shall relate to more than one subject
which shall be expressed in its title.
The district court and this Court, having jurisdiction of
the cause since questions are raised under the Constitution of the United States, may pass on all questions of
state law involved, Risty v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. 270 U. S. 378, 387, and must do so so far
as they are necessary to a decision.
Section 163 of the Kentucky constitution provides that
gas companies may not procure franchises permitting
them to lay pipes in and under public streets without
the consent of the appropriate municipal governing bodies
and ยง 164 limits all franchises to periods not exceeding
twenty years. Section 23 of the Statutes of Kentucky,
c. 61, Acts of 1920, p. 250, subjects any public service
company which has continued its service after the expiration of its franchise to the jurisdiction and authority
of the Railroad Commission and forbids it to withdraw
such service without permission, of the commission so
long as it remains in business in any part of the state.
It is said that the action of the commission under this
statute in effect operates as a renewal of the franchise
of appellants in the cities named in a manner not in conformity with the provisions of the state constitution.
But this objection, and that as well to the constitutionality, on state grounds, of the statute creating the
commission and defining its powers, are not available to
appellants in the present suit. It is the rule of this
Court, consistently applied, that one who has invoked
action by state courts or authorities under state statutes
may not later, when dissatisfied with the result, assail

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

their action on the theory that the statutes under which
the action was taken offend against the Constitution of
the United States. Wall v. Parrot Silver & Copper Co.,
244 U. S. 407; Electric Co. v. Dow, 166 U. S. 489; Eustis
v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, Hurley v. Comm'n of Fisheries.
257 U. S. 223; St. Louis Co. v. Prendergast Co., 260 U. S.
469. Upon like principle we think that appellants who
have procured action by a state commission under a state
statute may not assail that action in a federal court of
equity on the ground that that statute, or the one creating
the commission, is void under the state constitution.
Cf. Shepard v. Barron, 194 U. S. 553. The sound discretion which controls the exercise of the extraordinary
powers of a federal court of equity should not permit
them to be exerted to relieve suitors on such a ground
from the very action of state authorities which they have
invoked.
Assuming as we do for present purposes the authority
of the commission under state law to refuse its permission to appellants to withdraw, we perceive no objection
under the federal Constitution or otherwise, to withholding it. Appellants do not seriously deny that the Warfield Company is but an agency organized by the United
Company for the purpose of carrying on its public service business in Kentucky or that through that agency
the latter is doing business in the cities named and elsewhere in the state. In these circumstances its continuance in those cities is neither forbidden nor illegal. It
remained subject to state regulation, and control of it is,
by state statute, vested in the commission with statewide authority. If a state may require a public service
company subject to its control to make reasonable extensions of its service in order to satisfy a new or increased
demand, present or anticipated, New York & Queens Gas
Co. v. McCall, 245 U. S. 345; Woodhaven Gas Light Co.
v. Pub. Serv. Comm'n, 269 U. S. 244; Missouri Pac. Ry.

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; Wisconsin, etc., R. R. Co.
v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Atlantic Coast Line v. N.
Car. Corp'n Comm'n, 206 U. S. 1, Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, 249 U. S. 416, obviously the latter
may be compelled to continue to use present facilities to
supply an existing need so long as it continues to do business in the state.
The primary duty of a public utility is to serve on reasonable terms all those who desire the service it renders.
This duty does not permit it to pick and choose and to
serve only those portions of the territory which it finds
most profitable, leaving the remainder to get along without the service which it alone is in a position to give.
An important purpose of state supervision is to prevent
such discriminations, see New York & Queens Gas Co. v.
McCall, supra, at p. 351, and if a public service company may not refuse to serve a territory where the return
is reasonable, or even in some circumstances where the
return is inadequate but that on its total related business is sufficient, Atlantic Coast Line v. N. Car. Corp'n
Comm., supra at p. 25; Missouri Pac. Ry. Co. v. Kansas,
supra at p. 277, it goes without saying that it may not
use its privileged position, in conjunction with the
demand which it has created, as a weapon to control
rates by threatening to discontinue that part of its service if it does not receive the rate demanded. The powers of the state, so far as the federal Constitution is concerned, were not exceeded by the action of the commission, in compelling appellants to continue their service in
the cities named so long as they continued to do business in other parts of the state, and to there avail of the
extraordinary privileges extended to public utilities.
The contentions also that the commission was not
lawfully created under provisions of the state constitution, and that its order was void because not supported
by findings, have the same and no greater force than the

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

objection that the rate is confiscatory. Suitors may not
resort to a court of equity to restrain a threatened act
merely because it is illegal or transcends constitutional
powers. They must show that the act complained of will
inflict upon them some irreparable injury. As the court
below held, appellants, as public service companies, are
bound by the common law, if not by statute, to render
their service at reasonable rates. If the rates are not
shown to be confiscatory they cannot complain that the
order purporting to impose them was void for they have
suffered no injury even though the order was unauthorized. Cf. Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Dep't of Public
Works, 268 U. S. 39, 44; Chicago, etc. Ry. v. Pub. Util.
Comm'n, 274 U. S. 344, 351. We are thus brought to the
question, chiefly argued and decisive of the whole case,
whether the rates complained of yield such a return upon
the property used and useful in the public service as
avoids confiscation.
Gas is sold by the United Company to the Warfield
Company at the state line at 30 cents per 1,000 cubic feet,
but in view of the history and intercorporate relations
of the appellants it is not contended that this contract
rate is of any controlling significance in determining the
propriety of the rate fixed by the commission. For this
purpose appellants do not deny that they, with respect to
their entire property and business, may be treated as a
unit, and we so treat them. They contend here, as in
No. 4, that all their property used and useful in producing
the gas in West Virginia and elsewhere and in transporting and distributing it to consumers in the Kentucky
cities should enter into the calculation of the rate base.
Appellants, through ownership in fee and leases or
contracts on a rental or royalty basis, control the production of natural gas from 814,910 acres of land. A part
of this area, the so-termed "proven" territory, is at
present being used in production, the remainder being

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

held in reserve as either "probable" or "unfavorable"
sources of future production. Their principal items of
property consist of the interest in this acreage, working
capital, buildings, machinery, mains, pipes, compressors
and other equipment used in the production and distribution of gas.
The valuations of the entire business in the two states
made respectively, by the appellants and the court below
as of December 31, 1923, are as follows:
Value claimed by appellants:
Physical property ................................
Gas lands, leaseholds and rights ..................
General overhead charges ........................
W orking capital .................................
Going concern value .............................

$22, 274, 274.00
36,449,176.00
6,357,046.00
990, 000.00
8,423,105.00
$74, 493, 601.00

Value as found or assumed by the court below:
Physical property ................................
Gas lands, leases and rights (book value) .........
Overheads ......................................
W orking capital .................................
Going concern value .............................

$22, 274, 274.00
6, 732, 920.00
4, 009,370.00
999,000.00
3, 000,000.00
$37, 015, 564. 00

As will be observed the difference in these estimates of
value is due chiefly to the difference in value ascribed by
each to the gas rights and leaseholds. Appellants, as will
more fully appear, reached their claimed value by an
estimate by experts of the profits to be derived from the
sale, in an unregulated market, of the quantity of gas
estimated to underlie the proven and probable areas.
The court below found that the value of appellants' gas
field did not exceed its "book cost" which it took to be
$6,732,920. This figure, however, included oil production
acreage amounting to $389,591-leaving $6,343,329 as the
book value of the entire gas field.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278U. S.

Appellants contend that for the purpose of determining
whether the rate is confiscatory, the regulated business in
Kentucky must be separately considered and it is immaterial whether or not a fair return is being made on the
entire business, a part of which is unregulated. By taking the value of that property used exclusively in this
regulated business and allocating the gas fields and other
property used jointly in the two classes of business, the
former on the basis of the volume of gas supplied to each
type of business, appellants conclude that, if their valuation of their gas rights be accepted, a composite percentage of 11% of the total value is to be allocated to the regulated business. To establish that the rate is confiscatory
they accept the conclusions of the court below as to the
value of all items of property except the gas lands and
leases and, substituting for that item their own minimum
valuation of $30,000,000, they arrive at a hypothetical
rate base for their entire property of $60,282,644. The
value of the 11% of this property properly allocable to the
regulated business in Kentucky is thus set at $6,631,091.
This valuation, on the basis of 14% return (11/2% depreciation, plus 4 % amortization, which items the court below
deemed liberal, plus an 8% return), would thus entitle appellants to earn $867,309, substantially more than the
actual earnings of the regulated business shown to be
$749,839 in 1923 at the 32 cent rate. Appellants do not
seriously question the sufficiency of the allowance for
depreciation or the 8% return. The 41/2% allowed for
amortization, calculated on the rate base, is more than
sufficient to replace appellants' entire property at the end
of 18 years, the estimated life of the gas field.
In assigning to their total property a value of $74,493,601 and in concluding that the prescribed rate is confiscatory because of its effect on the regulated business alone,
appellants make certain assumptions, all of which are
challenged. In the view which we take, and for present

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

purposes only, we likewise make those assumptions without determining their validity. They are (a) that in the
case as presented present reproduction value of property
used and useful in the business, if ascertainable, is to be
taken as the rate base; (b) that under the circumstances
of this case it is not enough that the return on appellants'
business as a whole is remunerative but earnings of the
property used in or properly allocated to the Kentucky
regulated business must be separately considered in ascertaining whether the rate is confiscatory; (c) that both
proven and probable areas of appellants' gas acreage,
whether shown to be presently productive or not, if acquired in a prudent administration of appellants' business,
are to be included in the valuation for rate making purposes; (d) that depreciation and amortization are to be
calculated on the basis of the present value of the property
rather than upon the original cost or investment; (e) that,
although entitled to earn a fair return on the present value
of their gas leases, the " delay rentals" paid upon them
pending drilling and development are properly chargeable
to operating expense.
Making these assumptions, it is apparent that the disposition of the present question must turn, as appellants
argue, principally upon the value to be assigned to the gas
rights, although in certain aspects of the case a minor consideration may be the proportion of profits from the sale
of gasoline extracted from the gas which should properly
be included in the net earnings of the regulated business.
The burden of proving the value of property on which
they are constitutionally entitled to earn a fair return
rests upon the appellants and, to justify judicial interference with the action of state officers in fixing the rate assailed, must be supported by clear and convincing evidence. Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 16. Of the
total of 814,910 acres embraced in the gas field, controlled
by appellants or subsidiaries, 41,969 acres are owned in

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

fee. The remainder is controlled by lease or contract.
This acreage, although concededly well selected for purposes of economical development and avoiding loss of
gas by drainage, is not in a solid block; rather it is in
widely scattered areas; much of it lies adjacent to or is
interspersed with gas fields controlled by others. Leases
for fixed periods and so long after as gas is found in paying quantities have been obtained by appellants by payment of small bonus payments. The leases vary in their
terms, but a typical lease gives the lessee the right to
drill for gas for ten years, with the privilege of renewal at
a fixed small annual delay rental, varying from 25 cents
to $2.00 per acre, materially increased in the form either
of a fixed rental or a royalty if and when production is
established. They are customarily renewed from eighteen
months to a year before expiration and for renewal an
additional bonus is paid.
The actual cost on this basis of appellants' gas field is
not shown but it appears to have been substantially less
than the book value assigned to it. It was stated on the
argument that these leases, not only singly but in blocks,
are sold in open market, but their market price appears
not to have been established.
Appellants do not accept either cost or market value as
the basis of value of their gas rights. Instead they urge
that their assembled holdings of gas rights are unique in
that they cannot be reproduced and that their value
depends largely upon their peculiar nature and situation.
They rest their claim to a largely enhanced value over
book value upon alternative theories supported by two
classes of expert testimony. Appellants' experts, on the
basis of geological and mining engineering data, and especially by ascertaining the existing rock pressure of the gas
in various pools and by comparing the rate of decrease of
rock pressure with the amount of gas produced from these

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

pools in the same period of time, arrived at an estimate
of the total volume of gas underlying the proven and
probable territory. The results reached by this method
were checked by comparison with the actual experience in
gas production from selected pools and wells. As a final
outcome of these calculations it was estimated that there
was underlying the 136,384 acres of, proven territory and
available for use 249,100,000,000 cubic feet of gas, and in
the 126,208 acres of probable territory 414,600,000,000
cubic feet. With respect to the probable territory, there
were no production or pressure records to aid the experts
in the preparation of their estimate. In calculating the
volume of gas in this area they had recourse to comparison
with the nearest pools in the same geological structure.
This method was characterized by the witness using it as
"difficult and uncertain " and as "much less trustworthy"
than that applied to the proven territory.
These calculations are supplemented by testimony that
in Pittsburgh there is an unregulated market for natural
gas used for industrial purposes at 35 cents per 1,000
cubic feet which would, on an estimated changing schedule
of annual production, absorb in eighteen years the total
estimated reserve of gas in appellants' gas field. At this
price, natural gas, it was said, could compete successfully
in Pittsburgh, for industrial purposes, with gas produced
from soft coal at the prevailing price of $2.75 a ton at the
mine. After calculating the cost of getting this gas to
the market, distant 130 miles from the nearest point on
appellants' mains, providing for all construction costs including the cost of plant and transmission line, the gas
when marketed, it was estimated, would pay a fair return
upon investment, repay taxes and investment, and leave a
balance, when discounted, so as to give present value, of
$32,458,129. A second witness, taking 30 cents as the
market price of gas in Pittsburgh and deducting trans-

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

portatibn costs, concluded that the gas in the ground is
worth 5 cents per 1,000 cubic feet and arrived at a higher
value, $33,155,421. To this latter estimate he added the
present estimated cost of acquiring the 552,319 acres of
improbable or unfavorable territory at $5.96 per acre, or
$3,293,754, making a total estimated present value of appellants' gas field of $36,449,176. In this connection
there is evidence, which appears to be unchallenged, that
the average cost of acquiring unoperated acreage during
1921 to 1923 was 83 cents per acre and that in 1923 appellants acquired 15,184 acres at a cost of 66 cents per acre.
Appellants' second class of expert testimony is that of
men experienced and interested in the production and
marketing of natural gas, who purported to assign to appellants' gas field what was described on the argument as
its present exchange value or the price which the property
would bring if sold by a willing seller to a willing buyer.
Three such witnesses testified to a present value of appellants' gas field in amounts varying from $30,000,000 to
$35,000,000 and a fourth fixed the value at $45,000,000.
Examination of their testimony discloses that these estimates were not based on prevailing prices for gas leases
or on actual sales but, as in the case of the geological and
engineering experts, upon an estimated or assumed exhaustible supply of gas available to appellants until exhausted, and upon a predictable price for natural gas in
unregulated markets through a future period of about
eighteen years. Common characteristics of both methods
of valuation, therefore, are the estimation on uncertain
bases of the volume of gas available and of the price at
which it may be sold through a long future period.
A point considered below and argued here is that gas in
the earth is not capable of ownership, but we assume that
appellants' leases and contracts give them complete legal
power of control over the gas available beneath the surface of the area embraced in the gas field, so far as it may

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

be brought under physical control. We assume also that
the gas is now present in substantially the volume indicated and we lay to one side the speculative character
of the assumption that the gas in that volume, despite its
fugitive character and its possible drainage into other
fields not under appellants' control, will remain available
for appropriation through the eighteen or more years required to exhaust the field.
Waiving these not inconsiderable difficulties in the way
of establishing value, we pass to another and more serious difficulty. In both methods of valuation, the value
of property used in a business whose rates are regulated
is made to depend on an assumed earning capacity, and
the data relied on to establish assumed earning capacity
are themselves essentially speculative-so much so as to
form no trustworthy basis for the computation of value.
It is true that a part of appellants' business is not regulated at present, but it does not appear that the ultimate
distribution of their product to consumers in other states
will be immune from regulation either because of the interstate commerce clause, Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 252 U. S. 23; Public Utilities Comm'n v.
Landon, 249 U. S. 236, or for other reasons, and there can
be no reasonable assumption that it will be. The unique
character of appellants' control over a natural product,
limited in amount, asserted here as a basis of value, the
obvious necessity of securing franchises or special privileges to enable them to distribute their product to consumers under the conditions assumed, and other circumstances which subject them to regulation in Kentucky
and West Virginia, make inadmissible the assumption
that the price to consumers would remain unregulated
elsewhere.
And in other respects the assumed earning capacity is
so wanting in probative force as to require its rejection
in the circumstances here disclosed. It rests on a predic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

tion, feebly made, that the estimated amount of gas will
be available as required through a period of eighteen
years; that natural gas so transported and used as a fuel
will command a price of from 30 to 35 cents per 1,000
cubic feet through that period in a market yet to be established despite the changes wrought by invention and improved business and manufacturing methods; and a further prediction not only of what plant and equipment
must be constructed and maintained to effect delivery of
the gas for this period to consumers in the city of Pittsburgh but also of the cost, through a like period, of the
construction, maintenance and operation of that plant
and equipment. Such predictions can only be made on
the basis of data which are not and cannot be known, and
most of which are in the highest degree speculative. Such
a process of estimating value is without any known sanction.
On the record as made, appellants have failed to present any convincing evidence of value of their gas field
which would enable us to assign to it any greater value
than that which they appear to have assigned to it on
their books. This book value, therefore, may be accepted
not as evidence of the real value of the gas field, but as
an assumed value named by the appellants, which, on
the evidence presented cannot reasonably be fixed at any
higher figure.
We likewise find no persuasive ground for not accepting as substantially correct the amount of $30,282,644
fixed by the court below as the maximum value to be
assigned to those items of appellants' property other than
the gas reserve, rather than $38,044,425, appellants' outside figure for those items. But to avoid unnecessary discussion of them in detail and for present purposes, appellants' valuation of all these items may be conceded to
be correct. If we restate appellants' claimed valuation
of their property by substituting for their estimate of the

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

value of the gas rights their book value (after deduction
for oil acreage) of $6,343,329, we arrive at a total assumed
maximum valuation of appellants' entire property of
$44,387,754. Taking 12%1 of this total, or $5,326,530, as
the largest amount which could be allocated to the Kentucky business, a return upon it of 14% (8% plus 11/27%
depreciation, plus 4 % amortization) would amount to
$745,714, an amount less than the actual return.
Appellants' also contend that the court below erroneously included in the earnings of the regulated business
the sum of $65,166, or 50% of the net proceeds of the
sale of gasoline extracted, before sale, from the gas sold
in the regulated business, on the ground that this amount
exceeded the profits from this branch of appellants'
business as reflected on their books.
In the process of extracting gasoline from natural gas,
the gas flows from the field to the extraction plant, where
the gasoline is taken out, the residual gas being returned
to the transmission system for distribution to consumers.
In the production of this gasoline, therefore, joint use is
made of the gas, gas field and certain facilities of the gas
company. This joint use requires a prorating of joint
investment and expenses and of the return from the joint
witnesses allocated to the Kentucky regulated business an
amount of property used for "production" (including the gas field)
varying from 7.1% to 10.49% and a percentage of property other than
"production" ranging from 9.0% to 12.07%--or for the entire property as a unit, from 8.4% to 11%. No witness testified that there was
a composite percentage which could be taken generally to represent
the part of appellants' entire property used in the regulated business
regardless of the varying values assigned to different items of property. Appellants have used this last figure, 11%, in their calculations
and do not contest its validity. This percentage appears to include
some property located in Kentucky but not actually used in the local
regulated business. In our own computation we have, for convenience, taken 12% as the highest possible percentage applicable and
as the figure most favorable to appellants.
1 Various

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

enterprise. Formerly, appellant United Company maintained and operated its own kasoline extracting plant.
The West Virginia Public Service Commission having
held that 50% of the net return from the sale of gasoline
should be credited to the gas business, the United Company organized a corporation, the Virginia Gasoline &
Oil Company, and conveyed to it its gasoline extraction
plant, receiving the stock of the new corporation in exchange. Later it turned over this stock to its own stock.
holders, of which there are but two, both corporations,
in the same proportions in which they held stock in the
United Company. It entered into a contract with this
subsidiary by which it receives one-eighth of the gross
profit from the gasoline extracted. The commission and
the Supreme Court of West Virginia, in City of Charleston v. Public Service Comm'n., 95 W. Va. 91, in which
the United Company was a party, held that 50% was a fair
share of the net return of the subsidiary's business attributable to appellant United Company, and this was
the conclusion adopted by the court below.
We need not labor the point that a public service corporation may not make a rate confiscatory by reducing
its net earnings through the device of a contract unduly
favoring a subsidiary or a corporation owned by its own
stockholders. Cf. Chicago & Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v.
Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 345. We recognize that a public service commission, under the guise of establishing
a fair rate, may not usurp the functions of the company's
directors and in every case substitute its judgment for
theirs as to the propriety of contracts entered into by the
utility; and common ownership is not of itself sufficient
ground for disregarding such intercorporate agreements
when it appears that, although an affiliated corporation
may be receiving the larger share of the profits, the regulated company is still receiving substantial benefits from

UNITED GAS CO. v. R. R. COMM'N.
300

Opinion of the Court.

the contract and probably could not have secured better terms elsewhere. Southwestern Bell Telephone Co.
v. Public Service Comm'n., 262 U. S. 276, 288; Houston
v. Southwestern Telephone Co., 259 U. S. 318.
But this case is not of that class. It is not without significance that the West Virginia court in considering this
question had before it previous findings of its commission,
based upon actual contracts for gasoline extiaction where
the parties, dealing at arms length, had agreed upon a
50% division. Credible evidence was introduced below
tending to show that expenses on property used jointly
by the two companies and properly allocable to the gasoline company had been borne by the gas companies to an
amount in excess of the return received by them from the
gasoline extraction. It likewise was shown, the evidence
not being challenged by appellants, that the extracting
company during the years 1917 to 1922 inclusive, after
allowing appellants 50% of the net earnings for the extraction privilege, would have earned not less than 102%
of its capital investment in each year. The average
yearly profit during this period was 119.75%. In 1923
its net return on this basis was 80.40%. Making allowance for fluctuation in market prices and other common
business hazards, we do not think it would be difficult
to induce capital to seek investment on the basis of, this
division of net earnings. In such circumstances we think
no adequate reason is shown for not including in the appellants' earnings 50% of the net proceeds from the gasoline extraction.
Appellants' computation of value and of earnings is
assailed at many other points, but fully conceding, for
present purposes only, every contention made by them
except those which we have discussed, namely, the value
of appellants' gas rights and the division of return from
gasoline extraction, the appellants have failed to show
27228-29-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U.S.

that the rate imposed is confiscatory or otherwise such as
to call for the interference of a court of equity.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

UNITED FUEL GAS COMPANY v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF WEST VIRGINIA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 4. Argued November 23, 28, 1927. Reargued October 15, 16,
1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.
1. An order of a District Court of three judges denying an interlocutory injunction will not be disturbed on appeal unless plainly
the result of an improvident exercise of judicial discretion. P. 326.
2. Evidence to prove the value of plaintiff's natural gas land, like
that considered in United Fuel Gas Co. v. R. R. Comm'n, ante,
p. 300, held, on the authority of that case, to be insufficient to support the burden of proof in a suit challenging the adequacy of
rates fixed by a public commission. P. 326.
14 F. (2d) 209, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree denying an application for a
preliminary injunction in a suit by the Gas Company to
restrain the Commission from interfering with the putting into effect of a new and higher schedule of gas rates.
Mr. John W.oDavis, with whom Messrs. HaroldA. Ritz,
Douglas M. Moffat, Edward L. Patterson, and Chester
J. Gerkin were on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. F. M. Livezey and Robert S. Spilman, with
whom Messrs. Arthur G. Stone, Paul W. Scott, and
George S. Wallace were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant is a West Virginia corporation engaged in
producing natural gas which it sells in West Virginia,

