GT. NORTHERN RY. v. MINNESOTA.
499

503

Syllabus.

217 U. S. 114, 121; Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217
U. S. 563, 572; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, 179.
The difference between an excise tax based on sales
and one based on use of property is obvious and substantial. If the state sees fit to tax one and not the other,
there is nothing in the federal Constitution to prevent;
and it is not for this Court to question the wisdom or
expediency of the action taken or to overturn the tax upon
the ground that to include both would have resulted in a
more equitable distribution of the burdens of taxation.
Judgment affirmed.
GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF
MINNESOTA.

Nos. 106 and 107. Argued January 9, 1929.-Decided February
18, 1929.
-

A state tax on the local property of a railway company measured
upon gross receipts from intrastate business, and upon gross receipts from interstate business in the proportion which the mileage
of the railway within the State bears to the entire mileage of the
railway over which such interstate business is done, is not a burden to interstate commerce or violative of the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, though
part of the property devoted to interstate commerce consist of
docks outside of the State at the terminus of a line running from
within it, and though the compensation received for the services of
such docks be included in the gross receipts of that line in computing the gross receipts attributable to the taxable part of it.
So held where the principal, and a very lucrative, business of
the line in question was hauling ore from mines in the taxing
State to the terminal docks; where the line and the docks were
treated by the railway as a unit, the charge for dock service being

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

278 U. S.

absorbed in the charge per ton transported; and where the evidence did not show that the mileage value of the part of the
line outside of the taxing State, with the docks included, was
greater than the mileage value of the part within it. P. 508.
174 Minn. 3, affirmed.

ERROR to and appeal from a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota sustaining a judgment for taxes in an
action by the State against the Railway. See 160 Minn.
515; 273 U. S. 658. The writ of error was dismissed.
Mr. F. G. Dorety, with whom Mr. Thomas Balmer was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error and appellant.
The statute, as construed to apply to the earnings in
question, is unconstitutional because it assesses against
the defendant, a Minnesota railwa corporation, a tax
upon earnings of a Wisconsin dock company separately
incorporated.
Even if the Dock Company be regarded as an agency
of the Railway Company, the statute, if construed as
applying a mileage prorate to the entire earnings from ore
service, is unconstitutional; first, because the dock property in Wisconsin, which contributes to the earnings, is
approximately fifty times as valuable per mile as the
average mile of track in Minnesota; second, because the
services performed in and about the dock and yards in
Wisconsin are many times more elaborate and costly per
mile than the service performed on an average mile of
track in Minnesota; third, because the portion of the
charge applied by the defendant to the single mile of
dock service in Wisconsin was approximately fifty times
as great per mile as the charge for an average mile of rail
service in Minnesota; and fourth, because a portion of
the earnings is fairly attributable to an ore-treating and
storage process in Wisconsin, which was not a part of, nor
incident to, transportation and not related to track mile-

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. MINNESOTA.
503

505

Argument for Appellant.

age, and, therefore, not subject either to mileage prorate
or to any other apportionment to Minnesota.
The method of assessment being one that tends to tax
earnings and property in Wisconsin, the resulting tax
necessarily violates the Federal Constitution.
It is not necessary to consider whether there are any
equally valuable terminals in Minnesota on other lines of
the defendant handling general traffic, or whether there
is any off-setting under-assessment by Minnesota on defendant's earnings from general traffic. The State has
offered no evidence of such an off-set; and an underassessment in Minnesota would be no defense against
an over-assessment on other property, particularly when
located in Wisconsin. The investment in the Twin City
Terminals in Minnesota cannot be compared with or
offset against the value of the Wisconsin ore docks.
The Wisconsin docks are used exclusively for ore, and
the total investment is chargeable 100% against the ore
traffic. This traffic originates entirely on a limited number of mine spurs in Minnesota, and the total investment in these spurs has been credited to Minnesota in
comparing her investment in ore facilities with that of
Wisconsin.
The ore line is in effect a separate railroad. Its revenue
constitutes 25% of the Great Northern interstate revenue
taxable by Minnesota. Its earnings are in part attributable to a treating process which is not an incident of
transportation. For these reasons, we are entitled to
relief in this case, notwithstanding the fact that our attack upon the mileage prorate is confined to the ore line
alone. Citing: Pittsburgh,etc. Ry. v. Backus, 154 U. S.
421; Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490; Wallace v. Hines, 253
U. S. 66; Southern Ry. v. Kentucky, 274 U. S. 76; Philadelphia, etc Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Galveston, etc. Ry. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Maine v. GrandTrunk

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Ry. Co., 142 U. S. 217; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota,
223 U. S. 335; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246
U. S. 450; Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330;
Oklahoma v. Wells Fargo, 223 U. S. 298.
Mr. G. A. Youngquist, Attorney General of Minnesota,
with whom Mr. Patrick J. Ryan was on the brief, for
defendant in error and appellee.
Mr. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here both by writ of error and appeal. Appeal being the proper method, the writ of error (No. 106)
will be dismissed.
The action was brought by the state to recover taxes for
the years 1901 to 1912, inclusive. Judgment against the
company was rendered by the trial court for the years 1903
to 1912, no recovery being allowed for 1901 or 1902.
Upon appeal the state supreme court affirmed the judgment. 160 Minn. 515. A writ of error from this Court
was dismissed for want of jurisdiction resulting from an
insufficient setting forth and waiver of claim of a substantial federal constitutional question. 273 U. S. 658. Thereafter, the state supreme court vacated its judgment,
granted a reargument upon the constitutional question,
and again affirmed the trial court. 174 Minn. 3. The
present appeal is from the judgment of the court below last
described.
In Minnesota, by statute amended from time to time
but substantially in effect since 1871 (see 1 Mason's Minnesota Statutes, 1927, ยง'ยง 2246, 2247), a tax, measured by
gross earnings, is laid upon all railway companies, in lieu
of all taxes upon all of their property within the state.
As a basis for computing the tax, each railway company is
required to report annually its gross earnings upon business done upon its lines wholly within the state and upon

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. MINNESOTA.
503

Opinion of the Court.

interstate business in the proportion which the mileage
within the state bears to the entire mileage of the railway
over which such interstate business is done. The tax thus
levied is a property tax based on the gross earnings fairly
attributable to the property of the railway company within the state. The state supreme court has so held. And
to the same effect see Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota,
246 U. S. 450, 452.
The attack upon the statute is not that it is bad upon
its face, but that, as applied to the specific facts upon
which the liability of the company in the present action
was sustained, it imposes a tax in respect of earnings
wholly referable to certain docks in Wisconsin and a short
stretch of track immediately connected therewith, and,
therefore, results in laying a tax upon property outside the
State of Minnesota. The contention is that the statute
as thUs construed and applied constitutes a burden upon
interstate commerce and also violates the due process of
law and equal protection of the laws clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The facts follow.
Among the lines owned and operated by the railway
company, directly or through its subsidiaries, amounting in
all to more than 2,000 miles within the state, is a road 107
miles in length running from the Mesaba Iron Range in
Minnesota to, and including as part thereof, the Wisconsin
docks. Eighty-seven miles of the road are in Minnesota,
and 20 miles including the docks are in Wisconsin. The
principal business of the road is that of hauling ore from
the mines at Mesaba to the docks. For this service the
tariff provides a single charge per ton of ore transported,
in which the dock service is absorbed without being separately specified. For the years in question, the railway
company, in reporting the gross earnings assignable to the
Minnesota part of the line as proportioned to the foregoing
division of the mileage, first allocated to the docks and
deducted, as compensation for dock services, amounts

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

ranging from 15 to 25 cents per ton of ore hauled. This
was done upon the theory that in calculating the gross
earnings the portions of the line in the two states should
be considered entirely apart from the docks, and that the
amounts thus allocated and deducted constituted earnings
fairly attributable to the docks and the immediately connecting track alone. Taxes were computed and paid
accordingly. Subsequently, the facts being disclosed, the
state brought this action for additional taxes calculated
upon the amounts thus allocated and deducted.
The constitutional contention was not pressed in the
trial court. No finding pertinent to that inquiry was
either asked or made. The question was raised by the
answer, but waived in both courts below; and we so held.
But for the action of the state supreme court in granting
a reargument, it would not be here now. We agree with
that court that it fairly cannot be found from the evidence
that the mileage value of the Wisconsin part of the line,
including the docks, was in fact greater than the Minnesota part of the line. The record contains some statements in respect of the cost of the docks .and in respect of
expenditures in road construction, but the showing is incomplete and leaves even the question of cost in large
degree a subject for conjecture.
The evidence does not show the actual use value of
either the Minnesota or the Wisconsin part of the road, or
their relative values. If all the facts bearing upon the
matter were revealed, they well might demonstrate not
only that cost, even if proved, would not be a fair measure
of the use value, but that the Minnesota part of the line,
mile for mile, was equal in value to that of the Wisconsin
portion with the docks included. Such evidence as the
record contains tends to that conclusion rather than the
contrary. The road, including the docks, is a unit. The
charge for transportation of ore, including dock services, is
a single charge. The entire ore traffic originates and

RICE & ADAMS v. LATHROP.
503

Syllabus.

seems to be controlled in Minnesota; and the earnings
from that source comparatively are very great, suggesting
at least the probability of a special use value of the Minnesota part of the line. It is competent for the state to impose a tax upon the property of the company within the
state and for that purpose to measure the value of such
property in the way here provided. We find nothing in
the record to indicate that the tax under consideration,
plus that already collected, exceeds " what would be legitimate as an ordinary tax on the property valued as part of
a going concern, [or is] relatively higher than the taxes on
other kinds of property." Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261
U. S. 330, 339.
Under these circumstances, upon principles established
by numerous decisions of this Court, the tax is not open to
challenge as an exaction in violation of the federal Constitution. PullmanCo. v. Richardson,supra,pp. 338-339;
U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, 345; Cudahy
Packing Co. v. Minnesota, supra, pp. 453-455, and cases
cited..
Judgment affirmed.
RICE & ADAMS CORPORATION v. LATHROP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 155.

Argued January 11, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

In a suit to enjoin infringement of a patent and for an aecounting and
damages, begun within a short time before the patent is to expire,
the jurisdiction of the District Court to adjudicate the claim for
monetary relief as a court of equity will not be divested by a
denial of a preliminary injunction if the case be such that the
court properly might either grant or refuse such injunction in the
exercise of its discretion. P. 512.
24 F. (2d) 1021, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 585, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a decree adjudging a patent

