142

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

He cannot hold the Company liable for a disaster that followed disobedience of a rule intended to prevent it, when
the disobedience was brought about and intended to be
brought about by his own acts. See Davis v. Kennedy,
266 U. S. 147.
Still considering the case as between the petitioner
and Caldine, it seems to us even less possible to say that
the collision resulted in part from the failure to inform
Caldine of the telephone from train No. 15. A failure to
stop a man from doing what he knows that he ought not to
do, hardly ctn be called a cause of his act. Caldine had a
plain duty and he knew it. The message would only
have given him another motive for obeying the rule that
he was bound to obey. There was some intimation in
the arguihent for the respondent that the rule had been
abrogated. The Courts below assumed that it was in
force and we see no reason for doubting that their assumption was correct.
We have dealt with the difficulties that led the Court
of Appeals to a different conclusion and are of opinion
that the judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.
NORTHERN COAL & DOCK COMPANY ET AL. V.
STRAND ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 41.

Argued October 23, 1928.-Decided December 10, 1928.

1. The work of a-stevedore whilst engaged in unloading a vessel at
dock is maritime in character, although it consume but part of his
time under his employment, the remainder being devoted to work
ashore. P. 144.
2. A stevedore having been killed while at work on a vessel at dock
unloading cargo for the consignee, the cause of action against the

NORTHERN COAL CO. v. STRAND.
142

Opinion of the Court.

employer for the death was governed by the Merchant Marine
Act-the stevedore was a "seaman" within that Act-and the
state compensation law cannot apply. P. 145.
193 Wis. 515, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 276 U. S. 611, to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin sustaining an award under the State
Workmen's Compensation Act.

Mr. Charles Quarles, with whom Messrs. Louis Quarles,
Lyman T. Powell, and John S. Sprowls were on the brief,
for petitioners.
Messrs. John A. Cadigan, Peter B. Cadigan, and Andrew Nelson, were on the brief for respondent, Strand.
Mr. Mortimer Levitan, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, with whom Mr. John W. Reynolds, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent, Industrial Commission of Wisconsin.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner, the Northern Coal & Dock Company, an
Ohio corporation whose business is mining, hauling and
selling coal, maintained a dock on Superior Bay, Wisconsin, where it received and unloaded coal brought by vessels from other lake ports. It employed regularly some
eighteen men who worked upon the dock or went upon
vessels made fast thereto and unloaded them, as directed.
Charles Strand was one of those so employed. October
10, 1924, while on the steamer Matthew Andrews assisting, as his duties required, in the discharge of her cargo,
he was struck by the clamshell and instantly killed.
Respondent Emma Strand, the widow, asked the Industrial Commission of Wisconsin for an award of death benefits against the petitioners-employer and insurance car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S

rier. It found that both Strand and his employer were
subject to the State Compensation Act and awarded benefits. To review this ruling petitioners brought an action
in the Dane County circuit court. That court sustained
the award and the State Supreme Court approved its
action.
Strand's employment contemplated that he should
labor both upon the land and the water. When killed
he was doing longshore or stevedore work on a vessel lying in navigable waters, according to his undertaking.
His employment, so far as it pertained to such work, was
maritime; the tort was maritime; and the rights of the
parties must be ascertained upon a consideration of the
maritime law. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.
205, 217; Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S. 219.
Originally, that law afforded no remedy for damages arising from death; but we have held that it might be supplemented by state death statutes which prescribe remedies
capable of enforcement In court. Western Fuel Co. v.
Garcia,257 U. S. 233, 242. We have also held that state
statutes providing compensation for employees through
commissions might be treated as amending or modifying
the maritime law in cases where they concern purely local
matters and occasion no interference with the uniformity
of such law in its international and interstate relations.
Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469;
Millers' Underwriters v. Braud, 270 U. S. 59, 64; Smith
& Son v. Taylor, 276 U. S. 179.
The unloading of a ship is not matter of purely local
concern. It has direct relation to commerce and navigation, and uniform rules in respect thereto are essential.
The fact that Strand worked for the major portion of the
time upon land is unimportant. He was upon the water
in pursuit of his maritime duties when the accident
occurred.

NORTHERN COAL CO. v. STRAND.
Opinion of the Court.

142

Chap. 331, Wisconsin Stats. 1923 (ยง 331.03,
1925 Stats.)
provides for recovery of damages arising from death
caused by wrongful act, neglect, or default. The same
statutes (ยง 102.01, 102.02, 102.03, 102.04, and 102.05, et
seq.) deprive the employer in personal injury cases of
any defense based upon assumption of risk, negligence
of fellow servants, or contributory negligence (not wilful),
unless he has elected to pay compensation in the manner specified, and direct that no contract, rule or regulation shall relieve him from this restriction. Also that
where both employer and employee are subject to the provisions of the act the liability for compensation therein
provided shall be in lieu of all other. One who employs
three or more workers is declared to have elected to be
subject to the act unless he has indicated the contrary.
And, generally, where he has not given notice to the contrary, an employee is subject to the act whenever the
employer is.
There is nothing in the record to indicate that when
contracting with its stevedores the Dock Company actually agreed to subject itself to the liabilities imposed by
the State Compensation Act. And it is enough here to
say that the State had no power to impose upon an employer liabilities of that kind in respect of men engaged
to perform the work of stevedores on ship board.
The Act of March 30, 1920, 41 Stat. 537, which provides
that the personal representative may sue whenever death
may be caused by wrongful act, neglect, or default on the
high seas, is mentioned in the opinion below; but we think
it has no bearing upon the present controversy.
Section 33 of "An Act To provide for the promotion
and maintenance of the American merchant marine, to
repeal certain emergency legislation, etc."-Jones, or
Merchant Marine, Act-approved June 5, 1920, 41 Stat.
27228-29-10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

988, 1007, amends section 20, Act of March 4, 1915, to
read as follows:
"Sec. 20. That any seaman who shall suffer personal
injury in the course of his employment may, at his election, maintain an action for damages at law, with the
right of trial by jury, and in such action all statutes of the
United States modifying or extending the common-law
right or remedy in cases of personal injury to railway
employees shall apply; and in case of the death of any
seaman as a result of any such personal injury the personal representative of such seaman may maintain an
action for damages at law with the right of trial by jury,
and in such action all statutes of the United States conferring or regulating the right of action for death in the
case of railway employees shall be applicable. Jurisdiction in such actions shall be under the court of the district in which the defendant employer resides or in which
his principal office is located."
In InternationalStevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S.
50, 52, (October 18, 1926) the plaintiff-a longshoremanwhile at work in the hold of a vessel at dock, suffered
serious injury through negligence. He sued the employer
for damages in the state court and recovered. This Court
affirmed the judgment and ruled that within the intendment of the Merchant Marine Act "'seaman' is to be
taken to include stevedores employed in maritime work
on navigable waters as the plaintiff was."
New York Central v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 151, considered the effect of the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
c. 149, 35 Stat. 65; c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, upon the former
right of employees to recover under the laws of the States.
That act provides that every interstate carrier by railroad
"shall be liable in damages to any person suffering injury
while he is employed by such carrier in such commerce,
or, in case of the death of such employee, to his or her
personal representative, for the benefit of the surviving

NORTHERN COAL CO. v. STRAND.
142

STONE,

J., concurring.

widow or husband and-children of such employee; and, if
none, then of such employee's parents; and, if none, then
to the next of kin dependent upon such employee, for
such injury or death resulting in whole or in part from
the negligence of any of the officers, agents, or employees
of such carrier," etc. We held "the act is comprehensive
and also exclusive," and denied the right of an employee
of an interstate carrier to recover under a state statute
even in respect of injuries suffered without fault as to
which the federal act provides no remedy.
PanamaR. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, ruled that
ยง 20, Act of March 4, 1915, as amended by the Merchant
Marine Act, incorporated the Federal Employers' Liability Act into the maritime law of the United States.
See Engel v. Davenport, 271 U. S. 33, 35.
We think it necessarily follows from former decisions
that by the Merchant Marine Act-a measure of general
application-Congress provided a meth6d under which
the widow of Strand might secure damages resulting from
his death, and that no state statute can provide any other
or different one. See Patrone v. Howlett, 237 N. Y. 394.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
STONE, J.,

concurring:

I concur in the result. As the majority have placed
their conclusion, in part at least, on the grounds that a
stevedore, while working on a ship in navigable waters,
is a "seaman" within the meaning of the Jones Act, InternationalStevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S.50, and
that by the Jones Act Congress has occupied the field and
excluded all state legislation having application within
it, I am content to rest the case there. Similar effect has

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
STONE,

J.,

concurring.

278 U. S.

been given to the Federal Employers' Liability Act, N.
Y. Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147.
But I should have found it difficult to say that the
present case is controlled by the maritime law and so to
suggest that workmen otherwise in the situation of the
respondent, but who are not seamen and therefore are
not given a remedy by the Jones Act, are excluded from
the benefits of a compensation act like that of Wisconsin.
The state act here is contractual, as we have held in
Booth Fisheries Co. v. Industrial Comm'n, 271 U. S. 208,
and the employer is bound to pay compensation in accordance with the schedules of the act because the parties
have agreed that they shall apply rather than the common
or any other applicable law. The employer, a wholesale
coal dealer, owned or controlled no ships and, except that
it owned a dock at which coal was delivered to it from
ships, had no connection with maritime affairs. The employee's regular work was non-maritime and he spent but
two per cent. of his time unloading his employer's coal
from ships. To me it would seem that the rights of parties who have thus stipulated for the benefits of a state
statute in an essentially non-maritime employment are not
on any theory controlled by the maritime law or within the
purview of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205,
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U. S. 219.
Nor would it seem that resort by an employee only
casually working on a ship, through such a non-maritime
stipulation, to a state remedy not against the ship or its
owner, -but against the employer engaged in a non-maritime pursuit, is anything more than a local matter or
would impair the uniformity of maritime law in its international or interstate relation. Grant Smith-Porter Ship
Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469; Millers' Underwriters v.
Braud, 270 U. S. 59. And see Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,
257 U. S. 233, 242. Recovery in a state court upon an

SECURITY MORTGAGE CO. v. POWERS.
142

149

Syllabus.

insurance policy upon the life of a seaman for death occurring on a ship on the high seas while in the performance of his duties would not, I suppose, be deemed to have
that effect or be precluded by the admiralty law, even
though some of the provisions of the policy were imposed
by state statute.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS con-

cur in this opinion.

SECURITY MORTGAGE COMPANY v. POWERS,
TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 32.

Argued October 12, 1928.-Decided December 10, 1928.

1. When it is asserted that real property, or its proceeds, in a bankrupt estate is subject to a lien for attorney's fees arising from a
loan contract secured by the land and made before the bankruptcy
proceedings were begun, the contract is to be construed and the
validity of the lien determined by the bankruptcy court, in accordance with the law of the State where the contract was made and
the land is situated; but whether the liability is enforceable in the
circumstances may raise federal questions peculiar to the law of
bankruptcy. P. 153.
2. Petitioner held promissory notes secured by land in Georgia. The
land was acquired from the debtor by one who assumed and agreed
to pay the debt and later was adjudicated a bankrupt. The notes
provided for 10% attorney's fees, "if collected by law or through
an attorney at law." After the adjudication, there was a default
in the payment of interest; petitioner notified the original debtor
of its election to declare the principal due, and took against the
original debtor only, without joining the bankrupt or the trustee,
the steps prescribed by ยง 4252 of the Georgia Code, which provides
that obligations to pay attorney's fees upon any note in addition to
interest "are void," unless the debtor fails to pay the debt on or
before the return day of the court to which suit is brought for
collection of the same, and which requires the holder to serve notice
on the debtor of his intention to sue and of the term of court. The
suit having resulted in a judgment against the original debtor for

