24

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOARD

OF PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSIONERS

ET AL.

SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

Nos. 24 and 54.

Argued October 10, 11, 1928.-Decided November
19, 1928.

1. An agreement upon a plan for eliminating a grade crossing, adopted
tentatively by the engineer staffs of a railroad and of the State'Highway Commission of New Jersey, and followed by expenditures on
the part of the railroad company but not executed by the company or the Commission, held not to have constituted a contract
or an estoppel. P. 30.
2. A state commission adopted a plan to eliminate a grade crossing
between a railroad and an important state highway, retaining the
straight alignment of the highway at the crossing and approaches,
and providing width for present and future exigencies of travel,
but entailing heavy expense-more than $300,000-to the railroad
company due chiefly to the necessity of raising the tracks to clear
the highway and to the added width of the viaduct resulting from
the sharp angle at which the highway and railroad crossed. A plan
proposed by the company for avoiding these features by changing
the-place of crossing and relocating the highway for some distance
on either side would have saved the company over $100,000, but
was rejected by the commission because it involved making several curves in the highway and several deep cuts for its passage,
deemed dangerous to travel. Held that to require the greater
expense could not be adjudged violative of the Fourteenth Amendment considering the importance of the crossing, the probable permanence of the improvement, the demands upon the highway now
and in the near future, and the dangers to be avoided. P. 33.
3. Under the Fourteenth Amendment, a State cannot put railroad
companies to greater expense in the abolition of grade crossings
than is reasonably necessary to avoid their dangers to the public.
P. 34.
4. Reasonable expenditures for the abolition of grade crossings required by a State of an interstate railroad and not shown to interfere with or impair its economical management and service, are
consistent with the Transportation Act. P. 35.

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. v. COMMISSIONERS.
24

25

Argument for Appellant.

5. An order of the Public Utilities Commission of New Jersey requiring a railroad company to eliminate a grade crossing at its own
expense, objected to as confiscatory, is reviewable in fact and in
law by the Supreme Court of the State upon certiorari, pursuant
to its statutory and inherent powers. Ohio Valley Water Co. v.
Ben Avon, 253 U. S. 287, distinguished. P. 36.
6. Semble that, were this remedy by certiorari inadequate or unavailable, resort could be had to the Court of Chancery. P. 40.
Affirmed.

APPEALS from decrees of the District Court, of three

judges, one decree denying a temporary injunction, the
other dismissing the bill on final hearing, in a suit by the
Railroad Company to enjoin enforcement of a grade
crossing order.
Messrs. Duane E. Minard and George S. Hobart, with
whom Mr. E. H. Burgess was on the brief, for appellant.
In requiring appellant to make unreasonable and wasteful expenditures for structures and maintenance, the
order unreasonably and arbitrarily burdens, interferes
with, impedes and discriminates against the interstate and
foreign commerce of appellant, and impairs the usefulness of its facilities therefor. McAneny et als. v. N. Y.
Central R. R., 238 N. Y. 122, Ex parte 74, 58 I. C. C.
220; Reduced Rates, 1922, 68 I. C. C. 676; Senate Report
No. 304, House Report No. 456 on Transportation Act,
1920; Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388;
Railroad Comm'n v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331;
Akron, etc. R. R. v. United States, 261 U. S. 184; DaytonGoose Creek R. R. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456; Railroad Comm'n v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563;
A. C. & Y. R. R. Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 184;
Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S. 153; Schlesinger v.
Wisconsin, 270 U. S. 230; Weaver v. Palmer Bros., 270
U. S. 402; Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197;
Michigan Comm'n v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570.
The Board, under the guise of regulation, may not compel the use and operation of the company's property for

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

278 U. S.

public convenience without just compensation. Banton
v. Belt Line Ry., 268 U. S. 413.
If the Board's order requires an unnecessary width or
length of under-pass, or unnecessary sideivalk spaces, or
a substantial increase in the cost of the project by reason of maintaining the present alignment of the highway
when a relocation of the highway and a change of its
alignment can be made without impairing the safety or
convenience of the public, that order imposes upon the
plaintiff an unreasonable expenditure for this structure
in violation of the Transportation Act.
For the protection of the carriers as instruments of commerce, Congress has very properly exercised the right to
limit the expenditures for improvements and structures
to the reasonable requirements-of the situation, in order
to maintain the balance, in the interest of the shippers
and public on the one hand and the carriers on the other,
between rates fixed by the Interstate Commerce Commission (over which the carriers have no control) and the
expenditures that the carriers may lawfully be required
to make for improvements. Having limited the income
and directed the outgo, it would be a strange situation
which left it open to the States to require the expenditure
of millions of dollars in excess of reasonable requirements,
for local improvements like grade crossings eliminations,
which earn no revenue for the carrier, and benefit only
the people in the localities affected and the competing
local transportation agencies operating, free of cost, on
the public highways improved by such expenditures.
The order of the Board violates the Constitution by
impairing the obligation of the contract previously made
between the appellant and the State Highway Commission for the alteration of the grade crossing in question.
The order of the Board,' and the statutes under which
it was made, as construed by the Courts of New Jersey,
violate the due process and equal protection clauses of the

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. v. COMMISSIONERS.
24

27

Argument for Appellant.

Constitution. They constitute an unreasonable exercise
of the police power by requiring an unreasonable expenditure for the elimination of the crossing, and thereby deprive appellant of its property without due process of law.
This case presents a new question, namely, whether the
police power is reasonably exercised when it requires the
security holders and patrons of the railroad to pay more
than twice the cost of providing the reasonable requirements of public safety and convenience, in order to provide nothing of safety, but a pure luxury of convenience.
Appellant complains, not of the reasonable necessities
of the situation, but only of the excessive requirements
of the order of the Board.
This case is analogous to those in which courts have
restrained the action of the State, or of an administrative
board, which was undertaken to fix or limit rates of publie utilities in such a way as to prevent a fair return upon
the value of their property. See Public Service Ry. Co.
v. Board of Comm'rs, 276 Fed. 979, appeal dismissed per
stipulation, 266 U. S. 636; N. Y. Telephone Co. v. Board,
5 F. (2d) 245, aff'd, 271 U. S. 23; Middlesex Water Co. v.
Board, 10 F. (2d) 519. Cf. Nectow v. City of Cambridge,
27 U. S. 183; Chicago, etc. Ry. v. Minneapolis, 238 Fed.
384.
A writ of certiorari is the proper, and only, remedy to
review an order of the Board. Acquackanonk Water Co.
v. Comm'n, 97 N. J. L. 366. The New Jersey Supreme
Court has construed the Public Utilities Act as limiting
its power to set aside an order of the Board made within
its jurisdiction, to cases where there is no evidence to
support reasonably the order. The Court of Errors and
Appeals has construed it as conferring upon the Supreme
Court merely the power to set aside an order and not to
compel the Board to revise its order or make a new one.
Public Service Co. v. Board, 87 N. J. L. 581, affirming 84
N. J. L. 463; Erie v. Board, 90 N. J. L. 672. The allow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

ance or refusal of a writ of certiorari is discretionary with
the State Supreme Court and is, therefore, not subject to
review. Cavanagh v. Bayonne, 63 N. J. L. 176; Woglom
v. Perth Amboy, 80 N. J. L. 469.
Thus the Act not only fails to provide, but, as construed by the courts of New Jersey, expressly denies a
means of review of an order of the Board as of right, and
not only fails to provide, but expressly denies the party
aggrieved, the right to submit the issue of confiscation to
a judicial tribunal for determination upon its independent judgment. See Erie v. Board, 89 N. J. L. 57; s. c. 90
N. J. L. 672; Keller v. Potomac Electric Power Co.,
261 U. S. 428; Bluefield, etc. Co. v. Comm'n, 262 U. S.
679.
It is therefore unconstitutional under Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287; Keller v.
Potomac Electric Power Co., supra; Bluefield, etc. Co.
v. Comm'n, supra; Ohio Utilities Co. v. Comm'n, 267 U.
S. 359; Northern Pacific Ry. v. Department of Public
Works, 268 U. S. 39. New York, etc. R. R. v. Bristol, 151
U. S. 556, distinguished.
Mr. John 0. Bigelow for the appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are two appeals from orders of a circuit judge
and two district judges of the United States sitting in
the District Court of New Jersey, denying to the Lehigh
Valley Railroad Company injunctions sought by it in
that court under § 380, United States Code, Title 28;
§ 266 of the Judicial Code. The defendants were the
Board of Public Utility Commissioners, the Attorney General, and Francis L. Bergen, Prosecutor of the Pleas of
Somerset County, all of New Jersey. The order sought to
be enjoined was one made by the Board of Public Utility

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. v. COMMISSIONERS.
24

29

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioners requiring the Railroad Company to eliminate two railroad grade crossings in Hillsborough Township, Somerset County, New Jersey, and to substitute for
both of them one overhead crossing, to cost the railroad
company $324,000. It was alleged that the change would
involve unreasonable expenditure and thereby violatei
Par. 2, § 15, of the Act of Congress to Regulate Commerce, as amended by the Transportation Act of 1920,
by interposing a direct interference with interstate commerce and imposing a direct burden thereon; that it
would confiscate the property of the railroad company,
deny it the equal protection of the laws and impair the
obligation of a contract between the company and the
State Highway Commission. The three federal judges
heard the application for a temporary injunction and
denied it, and on final hearing entered a decree dismissing
the bill.
The state highway involved is Route No. 16, and crosses
the Lehigh Valley Railroad in a direction northeasterly
and southwesterly, at an angle of 29 degrees, with approaches on either side at the grade of 5 per cent. for a
distance of 125 feet from the tracks. The right of way
of the railroad company at this crossing is 100 feet wide
and is occupied by four main operating tracks and various railroad appurtenances. 230 feet east of the center
line of the crossing is a station on the westbound side of
the railroad known as "Royce Valley."
At a point 1,400 feet easterly there is another grade
crossing on what is called the Camp Lane Road, branching off from the highway in a southeasterly direction
across the railroad at *a practically level grade. The
order of the Board would eliminate this crossing also.
In December, 1922, negotiations were opened between
the Railroad Company and the State Highway Commission for the purpose of considering a plan for these eliminations. The negotiations continued until March 11,

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

1924, when the State Highway Commission adopted a
resolution approving a plan of their engineer. There was
public objection to it, and the negotiations continued,
until finally the engineering staff of both the Company
and the Highway Commission agreed on Plan C, to cost
$109,000. The Railroad Company expended some $5,000
in preliminary preparation for its execution.
No contract was ever signed, either by the Railroad or
the Commission. The Highway Commission had statutory power to make such a contract, but none was made
other than the informal agreement between the engineering staffs.
The matter was then taken up in 1926 by the Board of
Public Utility Commissioners, which was vested with
authority to order railroad companies to eliminate grade
crossings and to direct how they should be constructed.
On November 24, the Board of Public Utilities issued an
order to the Railroad Company providing for a different
plan from that considered by the Highway Commission,
to cost $324,000.
The Railroad Company sought to restrain the enforcement of this order by application for certiorari to a judge
of the Supreme Court of New Jersey. He heard the preliminary application and an argument on the subject,
together with evidence in the form of affidavits on the
issue made, denied the application for a restraining order,
and ordered the certiorari presented before the full
Supreme Court en banc. The application was there
presented on briefs and was denied.
A preliminary question is whether there was a contract
made between the Railroad Company and the State Highway Commission, so that the order by the Board of Public
Utility Commissioners would be an impairment of it and
a violation of the Federal Constitution. There was certainly no legal contract completed between the Highway
Commission and the Railroad Company. Plans were only

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. v. COMMISSIONERS.
24

31

Opinion of the Court.

tentatively agreed upon. The expenditure of $5,000 in
anticipation of the execution of the contract, to move
some tracks, did not constitute an estoppel equivalent to
making it or agreeing to it.
It is objected by the Railroad Company that the expense of the crossing of $324,000 is unreasonable, when it
might have been constructed by an expenditure of at least
$100,000 less.
The State of New Jersey, lying between New York and
Philadelphia and the West, has always been a thoroughfare for intrastate and interstate commerce. The State
has issued bonds to the extent of $70,000,000 for the improvements of its roads, and they now aggregate 1,500
miles in length. The highway with which we are concerned is known as Route 16, and is one of the chief
arteries of travel between central New Jersey and the lake
and mountain regions of the northern part of the State,
northeastern Pennsylvania and the lower counties of New
York. In connection with two other highway routes, it
has become one of the principal roads between New York
and Philadelphia. The traffic diagonally across the State
is so heavy and so constantly growing that no one road
can carry it all. So another route, No. 29, was authorized
by the Legislature in 1927, and when it is completed, the
traffic at Royce Valley crossing, already heavy, will be
much increased. The highway here in question was an
ancient county road laid out in 1811. It has always been
a road at this point running straight 2,000 feet north of
the railroad and 2,500 feet south of it.
Two plans for elimination of the two crossings were
finally presented, one by the chief engineer of the Board
of Public Utility Commissioners, and one, called Plan C,
by the Railroad Company. The plan of the Board provided for keeping the highway straight, carrying it under
a bridge of the railroad tracks with a width of 66 feet,
elevating the tracks for clearance, and dividing the high-

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

way by a central pier of 5 feet, two roadways of 20 feet
each, and two sidewalks of 10 feet 6 inches each.
Plan C provided for the vacation and abandonment of
the highway where it crosses the railroad right of way,
so that Route 16 would come to a dead end both north
and south of the railroad. It provides further for the laying out and establishing of a new stretch of highway which
would cross the railroad about 400 feet east of the present
crossing. It would first have a 6 degree curve to the east.
It would then have a straight. course of about 250 feet to
the entrance of the tunnel under the railroad tracks. A
short distance beyond the tunnel a second 6 degree curve
to the west would begin, and then a third 6 degree curve
to the east and the roadway would join Route 16 at a
point about 1,000 feet south of the intersection of the
route with the center line of the railroad. It would thus
have three 6 degree curves in it in about half a mile, with
cuts, which at stations 100 feet apart would have 7 feet of
depth at one, 10 feet of depth at another, 71/2 feet of depth
at a third, and 5 feet at a fourth.
Plan C provided for two roadways each 18 feet wide
and a center pier 5 feet wide, making a total width of 41
feet, and would create an angle of divergence of 54 degrees.
It would make the tunnel under the railroad, measured
along the center pier, about 75 feet long, as against 105
feet by the Board plan. The original cost as proposed by
the Railroad plan was $109,000, but by including the
Camp Lane elimination, and the two sidewalks on the
roadway in the tunnel, both of which were plainly needed,
and the increase in the width of the tunnel roadways, the
cost was increased to $205,000, and to these additions and
others the Company ultimately acceded.
The chief increases in the cost of the Board plan over
Plan C, as modified, are in the requirement that the highway shall remain straight, and in the circumstance that

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. v. COMMISSIONERS. ' 33
24

Opinion of the Court.

under the Board plan the bridge of the railroad tracks
must be raised to secure sufficient clearance for the use
of the straight highway beneath. The tunnel and the
bridge over it, if straight, must be 105 feet long, while
under the railroad plan, with the three curves, and the
cuts below the surface, the bridge would be only 75 feet,
or shorter by one-third.
The witnesses for the Railroad testify that 6 degree
curves are not dangerous, and that the additional cost of
$100,000 for preserving the straight road is not within the
limit of reasonableness. The advantage of straightness in
such a road through a tunnel is clear. The curves in the
cuts of from 5 to 10 feet in the railroad plan would tend
to increase the embarrassment of driving and to obscure
the clearness with which the drivers could see those ahead
in and through the tunnel and the curves. This highway
is not infrequently crowded with vehicles. When Route
No. 29 is completed, it will certainly be more crowded.
The immediate prospect of using new Route 29 makes
greater room in the roadways most desirable. The large
expenditure to secure such advantages does not seem to
be arbitrary or wasteful whei made for two busy highways instead of one.
It is not for the Court to cut down such expenditures
merely because more economical ways suggest themselves.
The Board has the discretion to fix the cost. The function of the Court is to determine whether the outlay involved in the order of the Board is extravagant in the
light of all the circumstances, in view of the importance
of the crossing, of the danger to be avoided, of the probable permanence of the improvement and of the prospect
of enlarged capacity to be required in the near future,
and other considerations similarly relevant.
An increase from $200,000 to $300,000 for a railroad
crossing might well, under different circumstances from
:27228-29---

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

those here, be regarded as so unreasonable as to make the
order a violation of the company's constitutional rights
and to be in the nature of confiscation. The protection
of the Fourteenth Amendment in such cases is real and
is not to be lightly regarded. A railroad company, in
maintaining a path of travel and transportation across
a State, with frequent trains of rapidity and great momentum, must resort to reasonable precaution to avoid
danger to the public. This Court has said that where
railroad companies occupy lands in the State for use in
commerce, the State has a constitutional right to insist
that a highway crossing shall not be dangerous to the
public, and that where reasonable safety of the public
requires abolition of grade crossings, the railroad can not
prevent the exercise of the police power to this end by the
excuse that such change would interfere with interstate
commerce or lead to the bankruptcy of the railroad.
Erie R. R. v. Board, 254 U. S. 394. This is not to be
construed as meaning that danger to the public will
justify great expenditures unreasonably burdening the
railroad, when less expenditure can reasonably accomplish
the object of the improvements and avoid the danger.
If the danger is clear, reasonable care must be taken to
eliminate it and the police power may be exerted to that
end. But it becomes the duty of the Court, where the
cost is questioned, to determine whether it is within
reasonable limits.
This follows from principles clearly established by this
Court. M. K. & T. R. v. Oklahoma, 271 U. S. 303; Mo.
Pac. Ry. v. Omaha, 235 U. S. 121, 129, 131; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137; Norfolk Ry. v. Commission, 265
U. S. 70, 74; Commission v. Mobile R. R. Co., 244 U. S.
388, 390, 391; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223.
We emphasize this not because there is doubt about it,
but because we deprecate the impression, apparently
entertained by some, that in the safeguarding of railroad

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. v. COMMISSIONERS.
24

35

Opinion of the Court.

crossings by order of state or local authority the exercise
of police power escapes the ordinary constitutional limitation of reasonableness of cost. This is apt to give to
local boards a sense of freedom which tempts to arbitrariness and extravagance. The case before us is one which
is near the line of reasonableness, but for the reasons
given we think it does not go beyond the line.
An elaborate argument is made by counsel for the Railroad Company to impeach the validity of the order of
the Board of Public Utilities in this case because of the
amendment to the Interstate Commerce Law, § 15-a, par.
314, § 416, contained in the Transportation Act of 1920.
Based on this, it is said that the Board has no
right to order these unreasonable expenditures for construction, because they exceed the legal duties of the carrier and the reasonable requirements of public safety and
convenience. It is not necessary for us to controvert the
proposition that unreasonably extravagant grade crossings are to be enjoined not only as violations of the Fourteenth Amendment but also as forbidden by the Transportation Act.
But we can not see that the rule invoked from either
will be violated by the order now made. The care of
grade crossings is peculiarly within the police power of
the States, Railroad Comm'n v. Southern Pacific Co., 264
U. S. 331, 341; and if it is seriously contended that the
cost of this grade crossing is such as to interfere with or
impair economical management of the railroad, this
should be made clear. It was certainly not intended by
the Transportation Act to take from the States, or to
thrust upon the Interstate Commerce Commission, investigation into parochial matters like this, unless, by
reason of their effect on economical management and
service, their general bearing is clear. Railroad Commzssion v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331. The latter
case makes a distinction between the local character of

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

the usual elimination of grade crossings and the vital
character from the standpoint of finance of the investment of large sums in the erection of a Union Station.
The final objection to the order is that the statute providing for the elimination of grade crossings by the Board
of Public Utilities impinges on the constitutional rights
of the Company, because it makes no provision for appeal
from the decision of the Board of Public Utilities to a
court with jurisdiction judicially to determine independently, on the law and facts, whether the property of the
Company is being confiscated, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution. Ohio
Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287.
In that case, the Public Service Commission of Pennsylvania instituted an investigation and took evidence upon
a complaint charging a water company with demanding
unreasonable rates. The Commission fixed the valuation of the Company's property and established rates on
that basis. The Company contended that the valuation
upon which the income was calculated was much too low,
and deprived it of a reasonable return and therefore confiscated its property. On appeal to the Superior Court,
that court reviewed the certified record, appraised the
property, reversed the order and remanded the proceedings with directions to authorize rates sufficient to yield
7 per centum of the sum. The Supreme Court reversed
the decree, saying that there was competent evidence
tending to sustain the Commission's conclusion, and as
no abuse of discretion appeared, the Superior Court could
not under the Pennsylvania statute interfere. This Court
held on error that, because the plaintiff in error had not
had proper opportunity for an adequate independent judicial hearing as to confiscation on the law and the facts,
the challenged order was invalid, and that the judgment
" of the Supreme Court of the State must be reversed.

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. v. COMMISSIONERS.
24

37

Opinion of the Court.

We do not think the Ben Avon case applies here. In
this case Chapter 195 of the Laws of 1911 of New Jersey
created a Board of Public Utility Commissioners and prescribed its duties and powers. By §§ 21 and 22 of that
Act, the Board is vested with authority to protect the
traveling public at grade crossings by directing the Railroad Company to install such protective device or devices,
and adopt such other reasonable provision for the protection of the traveling public at such crossing, as in the
discretion of the Board shall be necessary.
Section 38 of this Act, as amended by Chapter 130 of
the Laws of 1918, provides that any order made by the
Board may be reviewed upon certiorari after notice, and
the Supreme Court is given jurisdiction to review the
order, and to set it aside when it clearly appears that
there was no evidence before the Board reasonably to
support the same, or that the same was without the jurisdiction of the Board. If it should appear equitable and
just that a rehearing be had before the Board, the Supreme Court may determine that such hearing be had,
upon such terms and conditions as are reasonable.
The language of § 38 in respect to the appeal to the
Supreme Court is much broadened by the construction of
that court. It has been established by its decisions that
the Legislature of New Jersey may not impair the powers
of the Supreme Court and the Court of Chancery as they
existed when the State Constitution was adopted, and
there is much latitude in their jurisdiction growing out
of this. Traphagen v. West Hoboken, 39 N. J. L. 232;
Flanigan v. Guggenheim Smelting Co., 63 N. J. L. 647;
In re PrudentialInsurance Co., 82 N. J. Eq. 335.
The case of Public Service Gas Co. v. Board of Comm'rs,
84 N. J. L. 463, s. c. 87 N. J. L. 581, construing § 38,
as amended, is an illustration. It came before the Supreme Court on certiorari for consideration whether rates

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

fixed by the Board for a Public Service Gas Company of
Passaic were unjust, discriminatory and unreasonable.
The Supreme Court said of § 38 [p. 4661:
" If this language is taken literally, we should be powerless in any case within the jurisdiction of the Board to
set aside its order if there was any evidence to support
it, no matter how overwhelming the evidence to the contrary might be. It is needless to say that such a literal
construction of section 38 would bring it into conflict with
our constitution. It needs no act of the legislature to
confer on us the power to review the action of an inferior
tribunal, and the legislature can not limit us in the exercise of our ancient prerogative. That the legislature did
not intend to do so is made clear by a consideration of
the whole act. We are, by the express terms of section
38, authorized to set aside the order when it is without
the jurisdiction of the board. The jurisdiction of the
board to fix rates is, by section 16c, limited to cases where
the existing rate is unjust, unreasonable, insufficient or
unjustly discriminatory or preferential. The only words
important for the present case are unjust and unreasonable, since the commissioners themselves went no further
in their adjudication. To determine then whether the
commissioners had jurisdiction, we must first determine
whether the existing rate was unjust and unreasonable,
and in determining that fact we are not limited to the
question whether it clearly appears that there was no
evidence before the board to support reasonably its order;
section 16c does not purport to limit the scope of our inquiry into the fact, and we must therefore determine it in
the usual way according to the whole of the evidence."
The Supreme Court proceeded itself to consider all the
evidence in the case and to find whether the old rate was
unreasonably high and the new rate reasonable. It said
[p. 468]:

LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. v. COMMISSIONERS.
24

39

Opinion of the Court.

"All these considerations lead us to the conclusion that
if there is any presumption in favor of the order of the
commissioners, it depends, like the opinion of the court
of another state, upon the strength of the reasoning by
which it is supported. This is subject, however, to the
qualification that in legislative action the courts will not
merely substitute their judgment for that of a legislative
body.
"We must, therefore, determine for ourselves upon
all the evidence whether the former rate for gas in the
Passaic district was unjust and unreasonable, and whether
the new rate is just and reasonable."
The case went to the Court of Errors and Appeals,
and the action was affirmed on that opinion. There may
be some confusion in a review of cases on certiorari by
the Supreme Court of New Jersey; but the Passaic case
has never been overruled, and under it there is an appeal
to a court which may examine the facts and the law independently as to the justice and reasonableness of the
order. It is true that the court said that the case before
it was not technically a confiscation case but it resembled
it so much that it used cases from this Court on confiscation to guide its rulings, and said:
"Since all cases of the kind may come before that
tribunal and its decisions upon the constitutional questions would be binding upon us, we ought to adopt the
same rule."
The Passaic case was followed in the consideration of
the same § 38 in Erie R. R. v. Board, 89 N. J. L. 57; s. c.
90 N. J. L. 672, a grade crossing case, in which the Supreme Court said [p. 681:
"The next ground of attack is that the evidence taken
before the board of public utility commissioners does not
justify or reasonably support the board's conclusion or
findings. To that end, the insistence is, that this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

has power and should review the board's findings of fact.
We understand such to be the power of this court."
Objection is further made to this remedy before the
Supreme Court, that it is by certiorari and is within the
discretion of the Court. That, however, is hardly a serious obstacle. As Chief Justice Kinsey, in State v. Anderson, 1 N. J. L. 318, 320, said:
". .. as upon a certiorari the court have by law a discretionary power, I do not mean by this a power to do
what they please not directed by law and precedents, but,
to employ the language of a great judge, to be confined to
those limits, within which an honest man competent to
the discharge of the duties of his office ought to be confined; . . . "
This Court said of provisions for certiorari in a California statute like this, i. e., Nappa Valley Electric Co. v.
Railroad Comm'n, 251 U. S. 366 [p. 372]:
"In those cases the applications for writs of certiorari
were denied, which was tantamount to a decision of the
Court that the orders and decisions of the Commission did
not exceed its authority or violate any right of the several
petitioners under the Constitution of the United States
or of the State of California."
But if for any reason that remedy, as defined in those
decisions, should not be available or should be inadequate,
it would seem to be clear that resort then might be had
to the Court of Chancery. In Allen v. Distilling Co., 87
N. J. Eq. 531, the Court of Chancery in New Jersey used
this language [p. 543]:
"So long as courts of equity are to serve the purpose
of the creation of the court of chancery of England, and
in this state the court of chancery is the sucessor, in all
that such term implies, of that court, jurisdiction must
depend only upon the existence of, or a threatened wrong,
and the absence of an adequate remedy at law. . . . Due
to our habit of endeavoring to find decided cases to fit each

BOSTON SAND CO. v. UNITED STATES.
24

Syllabus.

situation, we too often overlook the fundamental reasons
for the creation or evolution of the court. It received no
grant of express powers nor were express duties imposed
upon it. The law courts were left to deal with the violation of all rights for which they could give an adequate
remedy. The duty of relieving against any remaining
wrongs was imposed upon the court of chancery."
We are of opinion that the infirmity in the Pennsylvania
statute which was pointed out in Ohio Valley Co. v. Ben
Avon Borough is not present in the New Jersey statutes.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McRYNOLDS is of opinion that the action
of the Board of Public Utility Commissioners was unreasonable and arbitrary and should be set aside. To permit
the Commissioners to impose a charge of $100,000 upon
the Railroad under the pretense of objection to a six per
cent. curve in a country road is to uphold what he regards as plain abuse of power.

BOSTON

SAND AND GRAVEL
UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
FIRST

No. 15.

COMPANY

OF APPEALS

v.

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 28, 29, 1928. Reargued
1928.-Decided November 19, 1928.

October 18,

1. A special act empowering the District Court to determine a case
arising from a collision between a warship and a private craft, and
to decree for "the amount of the legal damages sustained by
reason of said collision . . . upon the same principles and measure
of liability with costs as in like cases in admiralty between private

parties," should not be construed to allow interest in a recovery
against the United States although interest is commonly'included
in collision cases where the Government is not a party. P. 46.

