ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
429

Syllabus.

tinguished English judges " that the owner of a ferry has
not a grant of an exclusive right of carrying passengers
and goods across the stream by any means whatever, but
only a grant of an exclusive right to carry them across by
means of a ferry."
We can hardly say, therefore, from the weight of authority, that an exclusive grant of a ferry franchise, without more, would prevent a legislature from granting the
right to build a bridge near the ferry. Following the
cases in this Court in its limited and careful construction
of public grants, it is manifest that we must reach in this
case the same conclusion.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Dakota is
Affirmed.
ARLINGTON HOTEL COMPANY v. FANT ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 157.

Argued January 17, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

Land in Arkansas, on which there are hot springs valuable for the
curative powers of their waters, was reserved from private appro-

priation by Act of Congress, passed in 1832 while Arkansas was a
territory. A portion of it, which embraced the springs, was permanently reserved, in charge of the Interior Department, by an Act
of Congress, passed after Arkansas had been admitted to statehood;
and upon this portion, an Army and Navy Hospital, since maintained, was established by authority of Congress. Thereafter, exclusive jurisdiction over land of the permanent reservation, including the hospital and a contiguous parcel on which a hotel was being
operated under lease from the United States, was ceded to the
United States by the state legislature and accepted by Congress,
reserving to the State power to serve civil and criminal process on
the ceded tract and the right to tax, as private property, all structures br other property in private ownership there. The hotel was
destroyed by fire; property of the hotel guests was consumed; and
the question arose whether the landlord was liable to them as in-

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

278 U. S.

surer, according to the law of Arkansas as it existed at the time of
the cession, or only for negligence, according to that law as altered
by an Arkansas statute after the cession. Held:
1. That the cession of exclusive jurisdiction was valid under
Article I, § 8, Clause 17 of the Constitution, because of the federal
purpose to which the springs and the hospital were devoted, and
properly included the hotel and its site, which offered means whereby
the public might be aided by the surplus spring waters not needed
by the hospital. Pp. 449-454.
2. Therefore the statute of Arkansas modifying the liability of
innkeepers, passed after the cession, did not extend over the ceded
land, on which the hotel was situated. Id.
170 Ark. 440; 176 id. 612, affirmed.

EIROR to judgments of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
sustaining judgments recovered against the Hotel Company by persons who, were guests in the hotel and lost
their personal property when the hotel burned.
Mr. Thomas K. Martin, with whom Messrs. Win.. H.
Martin and E. Hartley Wootton were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
The only provision in the Constitution for the exercise
of exclusive legislation by the United States is found in
Art. I, § 8. This Reservation was not acquired by purchase
by the Government by the consent of the Legislature of
Arkansas.
F
The State was admitted upon terms clearly set out in
the act of admission, but reservation of jurisdiction over
the Hot Springs Reservation was not among the terms.
In cases where the Government acquires land under the
power of eminent domain, or by cession by the States, or
by purchase, or by any means whatsoever, except by purchase by consent of the Legislature to enable it to properly
function in its governmental capacity, the State may exercise any and all jurisdiction over the territory thus acquired in all cases and to any extent, subject only to the
limitation that if, upon the lands so acquired, the Government shall erect any public buildings, the State may not

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
439

Argument fof Plaintiff in Error.

legislate, or otherwise exercise jurisdiction over the portions thus used, in any manner that would impair their
usefulness for the governmental purposes to which they
are applied. But with that exception only, the State retains jurisdiction to the same extent as over all other
places within her limits. Ft. Leavenworth R. R. Co. v.
Lowe, 114 U. S. 525; Chicago, etc. Ry. Co. v. McGlinn, 114
U. S. 542; Benson v. United States, 146 U. S. 325.
The Lowe Case held that a State in ceding jurisdiction
to the Government, may annex any conditions not inconsistent with the grant, and that upon and after the admission of Kansas to statehood, the Government's rights in
the Ft. Leavenworth Reservation not used for military
purposes were only those of an ordinary proprietor.
The United States cannot acquire jurisdiction over
territory lying within a State for any purpose whatsoever,
except to enable it to function within its own orbit and
perform its own governmental duties and obligations.
Any attempt of the State to cede other jurisdiction, or
any attempt by the United States to accept and exercise
it, would be contrary to our plan of government and in
violation of 'the Constitution.
The jurisdiction ceded was not needed by the Government, nor has it been exercised for national or governmental purposes. If the exclusive jurisdiction of the
State could be ceded for the real purposes intended, then
no limit can be'drawn as to the extent to which it might be
carried. It might just as well have extended to the entire
City of Hot Springs, or to Garland County, or to all property in Arkansas belonging to the United States, including
all the public lands in the State and any territory in the
State, even if not owned by the Government. Williams
v. Arlington Hotel Co., 15 F. (2d) 412; reversed, 22 F.
(2d) 669.
The site of the Arlington Hotel has never been devoted
to or used for any governmental purpose of any character.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

278 U. S.

It has always been used by the United States solely in its
capacity of owner and landlord, for profit, and the United
States cannot, in that capacity, acquire or accept jurisdiction of any character over it, that would remove it from
subjection to the laws of the State.
"Such cession is really as much for the benefit of the
State as it is of the United States. It is necessarily temporary, to be exercised only so long as the places continue
to be used for the public purposes for which the property
was acquired or reserved from sale. When they cease to
be thus used, the jurisdiction reverts to the State." That
this language of the Lowe Case, 114 U. S. 542, was not
obiter, see Williams v. Arlington Hotel Co., supra. And
see the McGlinn Case, 114 U. S. 542.
Note the wide difference between the Ft. Leavenworth
Reservation and the Hot Springs. The former was
created and the Reservation made for "military purposes," one of the essential needs of the Government, and
recognized in the Constitution as such. But in the case
at bar, the tract was reserved not for the use of the United
States for any purpose at all, but merely for its "future
disposal," and it appears from the complaint that the
United States, by leasing to the defendant, had definitely
dedicated it to private purposes.
The question presented on this appeal is whether an
act of the Legislature of Arkansas, general in its terms
and remedial in its purposes, but enacted subsequent to
the act ceding jurisdiction to the general Government, is
in force on the Reservation. The only case we have been
able to find in which the precise question was presented,
is Crook-Homer Co. v. Old Point Comfort Hotel Co., 54
Fed. 604. Other cases cited: United States v. Tucker, 122
Fed. 518; Barrett v. Palmer, 135 N. Y. 336, affirmed, 160
U. S. 400.
In Benson v. United States, 146 U. S. 325, there is nothing to show that the farm had been leased or was being
operated for private purposes.

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
439

Argument for Defendants in Error.

As indicative of the purpose for which the Hot Springs
Reservation was originally made, we find that Congress
provided for and caused the entire four sections reserved
to be subdivided into lots, blocks and streets, which comprise the present city of Hot Springs. This, with the
exception of a few hundred acres on which the Hot Springs
are actually located, and on a part of which Reservation
the Arlington Hotel was constructed under authority of
a lease executed to it by the Department of the Interior,
is a carrying out of the purposes stated in the act of reservation, i. e., "future disposal by the United States." Act
of March 3, 1877, 19 Stat. 377, '§§ 3, 4.
Pursuing this policy of "future disposal by the United
States" a permanent Hot Springs Reservation was set
aside and the Secretary of the Interior was directed to
lease the site of the Arlington Hotel to the then proprietor
thereof, and also to lease the sites of existing bath-houses
and sites for the building of other bath-houses. By Act of
Congress, March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 842, the Secretary of
the Interior was again authorized and empowered to make
similar leases, and by Act of August 24, 1912, 37 Stat. 479,
he was authorized to make the lease under which plaintiff
in error held at the time of the fire.
With the doctrine that the courts, on a question of jurisdiction, will not inquire into, but will follow the action
of the political department of the Government, no fault
is found, but it is contended that the rule is not applicable
in the present case.Messrs. Henry M. Armistead, Ashley Cockrill, A. J.
Murphy, and Scott Wood were on the brief for defendants
in error.
It is for the political department of the Government
to decide how far the jurisdiction must extend. There
was more need for including the portion of the Reservation covered by the Arlington Hotel than there was for
including the two railroad rights-of-way and the farm
involved in the Ft. Leavenworth Cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

278 U. S.

As we construe those opinions, the use of the place by
the Government must cease entirely before its jurisdiction can be declared at an end; and the mere fact that
private persons or corporations re given the right to use
a part of the territory does not oust the jurisdiction of the
United States. The jurisdiction would necessarily continue until the adoption of an Act of Congress ceding it
back to the State, or until the executive department of
the United States ceased to exercise the jurisdiction and
let it go back to the State. It would certainly be impractical to treat the jurisdiction as reverting to the State
whenever some small part of the ceded territory was devoted to private use, and as coming back to the United
States when the private use ceased.
The executive and legislative departments of the State
and United States have in several instances decided that
the State had the right to cede to the United States exclusive jurisdiction of the lands belonging to the United
States used as public parks. See Acts of Congress, June
2, 1920, 41 Stat. 731; June 30, 1916, 39 Stat. 243; August
22, 1914, 38 Stat. 699; January 2, 1920, 41 Stat. 731.
The power is given to Congress by Art. 4, § 3, par. 2d,
to use the property of the United States in the way Congress deems best for the welfare of the people of the
United States. Van Lear v. Eisele, 126 Fed. 823; Robbins
v. United States, 284 Fed. 39; Camfield v. United States,
167 U. S. 525. If such power is not expressly given, it
will be implied. United States v. Gettysburg Ry. Co.,
160 U. S. 668.
If Congress has the power to permit the hot waters
to be used as they are being used, then they are being
used to carry out the purposes of the Constitution, and
Congress has the right to determine what jurisdiction
the Federal Government needs to best carry out such
purposes. Congress has the power to establish national
parks for the use of the people of the United States and

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
439

Opinion of the Court.

has the right to have exclusive jurisdiction of such parks
whenever Congress and the State Legislature deem such
jurisdiction the best way to secure to the people of the
United States the benefits of these parks.
The courts cannot inquire into the reasons of the political department in matters of this kind. Crook-Homer
Co. v. Old Point Comfort Hotel Co., 54 Fed. 604, distinguished.
Section 4 of Article 4 of the Constitution does not apply;
§ 8, par. 17, Art. I, expressly authorizes the United States
to have exclusive jurisdiction of territory within the boundaries of the States. Besides, the question of whether or
not this constitutional guaranty has been 'violated, is a
political and not a judicial question. Mountain Timber
Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219.
Mr. William Waller, with whom Mr. Seth M. Walker
was on the brief, as amici curiae, on behalf of Mrs. Elsie
Williams, by special leave of Court.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are three suits brought in the Circuit Court of
Garland County, Arkansas, against the Arlington Hotel
Company, a corporation of Arkansas, in which the plaintiffs seek to recover for the losses they sustained, when
guests of the hotel, in the destruction by fire of their personal property. The hotel was in Hot Springs National
Park.
The complaints averred that the United States in 1904
acquired from Arkansas exclusive jurisdiction over Hot
Springs Park and that under the common law, which was
there in force (Pettit v. Thomas, 103 Ark. 593), an innkeeper was an insurer of his guests' personal property
against fire. In 1913, the Arkansas Legislature enacted
a law relieving innkeepers from liability to their guests

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

for loss by fire, unless it was due to negligence. The complainants contended that this act had no force in Hot
Springs Park as it was within the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States, that the demurrers based thereon
must be overruled and that judgments should be entered
for them. The defendant denied the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States and insisted that the demurrers
to the complaint were good and that the defendant was
entitled to judgment. There were two hearings. The
Circuit Court first sustained the demurrers. This ruling
was reversed on appeal by the Arkansas Supreme Court.
170 Ark. 440. Answers were then filed. The three cases
were consolidated and went to a jury, and in accord with
the final ruling on the demurrers resulted in verdicts and
judgments for the plaintiffs, which were affirmed by the
Supreme Court. 176 Ark. 612.
By § 3 of the Act of Congress of April 20, 1832, ch. 70,
4 Stat. 505, while Arkansas was still a territory, it was
prQvided:
"That the hot springs in said territory, together with four
sections of land, including said springs, as near the centre
thereof as may be, shall be reserved for the future disposal
of the United States, and shall not be entered, located, or
appropriated, for any other purpose whatever."
Arkansas was admitted to statehood in 1836 (ch. 100,
5 Stat. 50), but there was then no reservation of exclusive
jurisdiction by the United States over the territory reserved from sale by the Act of 1832.
By Act of Congress of March 3, 1877, ch. 108, 19 Stat.
377, it was made the duty of United States Commissioners, after an examination of the topography of the
Reservation, to lay it out into convenient squares, blocks,
lots, avenues, streets and alleys, the lines of which were
to correspond with the existing boundary lines of the
occupants of the reservation.

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
439

Opinion of the Court.

Section 4 of the act provided:
"That before making any sub-division of said lands,
as described in the preceding section, it shall be the duty
of said board of commissioners, under the direction and
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
to designate a tract of land included in one boundary,
sufficient in extent to include, and which shall include all
the hot or warm springs situated on the lands aforesaid,
to embrace, as near as may be, what is known as Hot
Springs Mountain, and the same is hereby reserved from
sale, and shall remain under the charge of a superintendent to be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior:
Provided, however, That nothing in this section shall
prevent the Secretary of the Interior from fixing a special tax on water taken from said springs, sufficient to pay
for the protection and necessary improvement of the
same."
The Army Appropriation Act of June 30, 1882, ch. 254,
22 Stat. 121, provided:
"That one hundred thousand dollars be, and hereby is,
provided for the erection of an Army and Navy Hospital
at Hot Springs, Arkansas, which shall be erected by and
under the direction of the Secretary of War, in accordance
with plans and specifications to be prepared and submitted
to the Secretary of War by the Surgeons General of the
Army and Navy; which hospital, when in condition to
receive patients, shall be subject to such rules, regulations, and restrictions as shall be provided by the President of the United States': Provided further, That such
hospital shall be erected on the government reservation
at or near Hot Springs, Arkansas."
The hospital and accessories were completed about the
year 1886. They originally covered twenty acres and
have been enlarged from time to time since then. They
are within the territory described in § 4 of the Act of

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

March 3, 1877, supra, and within the territory over which
Arkansas by Act of February 21, 1903 (Acts of Arkansas,
1903, Act 30), ceded exclusive jurisdiction to the United
States. The language of the cession was as follows:
"Section 1. That exclusive jurisdiction over that part
of the Hot Springs Reservation known and described as a
part of the Hot Springs Mountain, and whose limits are
particularly described by the following boundary lines
. . . all in township two south, range nineteen west, in
the County of Garland, State of Arkansas, being a part of
the permanent United States Hot Springs Reservation, is
hereby ceded and granted to the United States of America
to be exercised so long as the same shall remain the property of the United States; provided, that this grant of
jurisdiction shall not prevent the execution of any process
of the State, civil or criminal, on any person who may be
on such reservation or premises; provided, further, that
the right to tax all structures and other property in private
ownership on the Hot Springs Reservation accorded to the
State by the Act of Congress approved March 3rd, 1901
[1891], is hereby reserved to the State of Arkansas."
By the Act of April 20, 1904, ch. 1400, 33 Stat. 187, Congress accepted this cession and directed that the land
should be under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States, and all laws applicable to places under such
sole and exclusive jurisdiction should have full force and
effect therein:
"Provided that nothing in this Act shall be so construed as to forbid the service within said boundaries of
any civil or criminal process of any court having jurisdiction in the State of Arkansas; that all fugitives from justice taking refuge within said boundaries shall on due
application to the executive of said State, whose warrant
may lawfully run within said territory for said purpose,
be subject to the laws which apply to fugitives from justice
found in the State of Arkansas."

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
439

449

Opinion of the Court.

The act further provided that it should not be so construed as to interfere with the right of the State to tax all
structures and other property in private ownership within
the boundaries described.
Section 2 provided that the cession should constitute a
part of the Eastern United States Judicial District of
Arkansas, and the District and Circuit Courts of the
United States for the District should have jurisdiction of
all offenses committed within the boundaries.
The Arlington Hotel was constructed upon one acre of
this tract thus subsequently ceded to the United States
and accepted by it, and the hotel was operated for more
than fifty years under lease from the United States until
its destruction by fire on April 5, 1923.
The territory included in the cession forms only a small
part of the original reservation by the United States from
settlement under the land laws. It includes the springs
and is about 1,800 feet long and 4,000 feet wide. There is
also a larger Hot Springs reservation of over 900 acres
owned by the United States, but under the jurisdiction of
Arkansas and reserved from sale by the Government for
parks. The hospital buildings are about 1,000 feet from
the site of the Arlington Hotel. By" Act of Congress of
March 4, 1921, ch. 161, 41 Stat. 1407, the ceded tract was
given the name of the Hot Springs National Park.
The contention of the defendant is that the cession was
invalid, and that no jurisdiction was thereby conferred on
the United States for the reason that the only power the
United States has to receive exclusive jurisdiction of land
within a State is to be found in the words of Article I,
Section 8, clause 17, of the Federal Constitution, as
follows:
"to. exercise like authority over all places purchased by
the consent of the legislature of the State in which the
same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals,
dockyards and other needful buildings."
27228'-29-29

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

The leading case on the subject is Fort Leavenworth
R. R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525. The question there
was whether a railroad running into the military reservation of Fort Leavenworth was subject to taxation by the
State of Kansas. The United States had had exclusive
jurisdiction over the land in question from 1803 by the
cession of France until the admission of Kansas into the
Union. For many years before such admission the land
had been reserved from sale by the United States for military purposes and occupied as a military post. Until
the admission of Kansas of course the governmental jurisdiction of the United States was complete. But when
Kansas came into the Union in 1861 on an equal footing
with the original States, the previous military reservation
was not excepted from the succeeding jurisdiction of the
new State. The Attorney General recommended a State
cession of jurisdiction, but it was not given until February,
1875, when the Kansas Legislature enacted:
"That exclusive jurisdiction be, and the same is hereby
ceded to the United States over and within all the territory owned by the United States, and included within the
limits of the United States military reservation known as
the Fort Leavenworth Reservation in said State, as declared from time to time by the President of the United
States, saving, however, to the said State the right to serve
civil or criminal process within said Reservation, in suits
or prosecutions for or on account of rights acquired, obligations incurred, or crimes committed in said State, but
outside of said cession and Reservation; and saving further to said State the right to tax railroad, bridge, and
other corporations,their franchises and property, on said
Reservation." Laws of Kansas, 1875, p. 95.
The last words seemed to save fully the right of the
State to tax the railway. But as the Constitution provided that Congress should have power to exercise exclusive jurisdiction in all places purchased by the consent

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
439

Opinion of the Court.

of the Legislature of the State in which the same should
be for the erection of forts, etc., the Railroad Company
contended that no right to tax a railroad on the reservation could be retained by the State and that the saving
clause was void.
In answering this claim, the Court pointed out that the
United States without the consent of a State might purchase or condemn for its own use State land for a national
purpose, and that without any consent or cession by the
State, such jurisdiction would attach as was needed to
enable the United States to use it for the purpose for
which it had been purchased. The Court held that in
such a case when the purpose ceased, the jurisdiction of
the federal government ceased. But the Court further
held that when a formal cession was made by the State to
the United States, after the original purchase of the
ownership of the land had been made, the State and the
Government of the United States could frame the cession
and acceptance of governmental jurisdiction, so as to
divide the jurisdiction between the two as the two parties
might determine, provided only they saved enough jurisdiction for the United States to enable it to carry out the
purpose of the acquisition of jurisdiction. The Court
therefore held that a saving clause in the language of the
cession requiring that the railroad should pay taxes was
not invalid but was in accord with the power of both
parties and might be enforced. This decided the point in
the case.
Mr. Justice Field, in elaborating the opinion, said that
if the act of cession of exclusive jurisdiction adopted subsequently to the purchase of the land was followed by a
failure of the United States to continue to use the land
for any of the purposes for which it was purchased, the
exclusive jurisdiction would lapse. This statement that,
after the formal cession by the State of exclusive jurisdiction had been accepted by the United States, there was

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

nevertheless a reverter of the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States though conveyed in the formal cession
without limitation, is said by counsel for appellees not to
have been necessary for the decision.
In Benson v. United States, 146 U. S. 325, Benson was
indicted in a Federal court for murder committed in the
Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and the first
question was one of jurisdiction. It was contended that
the evidence showed that the murder was committed on a
particular part of the Reservation which was used solely
for farming purposes, but the Court held that in matters
of this kind the courts followed the action of the political
department of the Government; that the entire tract had
been legally reserved for military purposes (United States
v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 527) and that the character and
purpose of its occupation having been officially and legally
established by that branch of the Government which had
control over such matters, it was not open to the courts on
question of jurisdiction to inquire what might be the
actual uses to which any portion of the reservation was
temporarily put. There was therefore jurisdiction and
the objection was overruled.
In Palmer v. Barrett, 162 U. S.399, the United States
acquired title to navy yard lands in the State of New
York, the record not disclosing hdw. In an appropriation act Congress empowered the Secretary of War to sell
and convey part of these to any purchaser, provided that
they should not be sold at less price than they cost the
Government, and provided that prior to the sale of the
lands exclusive jurisdiction should be ceded to the United
States of all the remaining lands connected with the Navy
Yard belonging to the United States. The jurisdiction
was ceded by the State to the United States, but the act
of cession contained the proviso that the United States
could" retain the use and jurisdiction as long as the prem-

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
439

Opinion of the Court.

ises described shall be used for the purposes for which the
jurisdiction was ceded, and no longer. The land in question in the case was not to be used by the United States
for a navy yard or naval hospital, but was a part of the
vacant land adjoining the Navy Yard which had been
leased by the United States to the City of Brooklyn for
market purposes. A direct consideration was received by
the United States for the lease, since it provided that a
supply of water for the purposes of the Navy Yard at
reduced rates would be furnished by the city to the United
States during the use by the former of lands covered by
the lease. This Court said [p. 404]:
"In the absence of any proof to the contrary, it is to be
considered that the lease was valid, and that both parties
to it received the benefits stipulated in the contract. This
being true, the case then presents the very contingency
contemplated by the act of cession, that is, the exclusion
from the jurisdiction of the United States of such portion
of the ceded land not used for the governlmental purposes
of the United States therein specified. Assuming, without deciding, that if the cession of jurisdiction to the
United States had been free from condition or limitation,
the land should be treated and considered as within the
sole jurisdiction of the United States, it is clear that under
the circumstances here existing, in view of the reservation
made by the State of New York in the act ceding jurisdiction, the exclusive authority of the United States over
the land covered by the lease was at least suspended whilst
the lease remained in force."
It is apparent that the Court intended to leave open the
question whether, had the cession of jurisdiction been
complete and without limitation, the United States would
have retained its exclusive jurisdiction.
Counsel for the plaintiffs in the present case insist that
the United States has the constitutional authority to
maintain exclusive jurisdiction over the tract here in ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

tion as a national park, and that as the Government undoubtedly may use its control over all land within its
exclusive jurisdiction to provide national parks, it may,
where land is ceded by a State to the exclusive jurisdiction
of the National Government, treat land thus ceded by the
State for such a purpose as it would treat national public
land which had never come within the jurisdiction of the
State; that as by virtue of Article 4 of the Constitution,
Section 3, Congress has power to dispose of and make all
needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or
other property belonging to the United States, it may treat
land ceded to it by a State for the purposes of making a
national park exactly as it would treat land which had
always been within its exclusive jurisdiction and subject
to its disposition for park purposes. This issue may in the
future become a subject of constitutional controversy, because some twenty or more parks have been created by
Congress, in a number of which exclusive jurisdiction over
the land has been conferred by act of cession of the State.
We do not find it necessary, however, now to examine
this question. We think that the history of this Hot
Springs National Park, as shown by the legislation leading
to its establishment and circumstances which the Court
may judicially notice, is such that the small tract whose
jurisdiction is here in question may be brought within the
principle of the Lowe case and other cases already cited.
The Hot Springs are mentioned as remarkable by
homas Jefferson in a message to Congress on February
19, 1806, in which he transmitted a report containing a
description of them. Messages, Reports, etc., 1st Sess.
9th Cong., 1806, pp. 202, 344. Their known value for
remedial purposes and the appreciation of that value by
Congress were shown in the Act of 1832, already cited, by
which the land surrounding them was reserved for the
future disposal of the United States. The purpose was
evidently to make use of them for national public needs.
The analysis of the forty-four springs indicated that

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
439

Opinion of the Court.

these waters were of a special excellence with respect to
diseases likely to be treated in a military hospital. Therefore it was that in 1882 an appropriation of $100,000 was
made for the construction of an adequate hospital under
the War Department. That hospital has been enlarged
by appropriations from time to time since its original
establishment. It was certainly a wise prevision which
with the consent of the State brought within exclusive national jurisdiction the hospital buildings and accessories
and all the forty-four springs from which the healing
waters came in order to secure to the Government their
complete police protection, preservation and control.
This justified acquisition of the springs and hospital for
the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States under clause
17, Section 8, Article I of the Constitution. Nor is the
constitutional basis for acquisition any less effective because the springs thus kept safely available for the Federal
purpose do in the abundance of their flow also supply
water sufficient to furnish aid to the indigent and to those
of the public of the United States who are able to pay for
hotel accommodation on the little park surrounding the
hospital and the springs. Benson v. United States, supra,
and Williams v. Arlington Hotel Co., 22 F. (2d) 669.
The cases relied on by the defendant are clearly distinguishable. Williams v. Arlington Hotel Co., 15 F. (2d)
412, was overruled by the Circuit Court of Appeals, as
above. In Crook, Homer & Co. v. Old Point Comfort
Hotel Co., 54 Fed. 604, there was an express reverter clause
in the act of cession, which limited the use of the land to
defensive purposes. Renner v. Bennett, 21 Ohio St. 431,
and State v. Board of Commissioners, 153 Ind. 302, were
cases where Congress had receded jurisdiction to the State.
In La Duke v. Melin, 45 N. D. 349, there had been complete abandonment of a military reservation, which by
Act of Congress had been opened to homesteaders.
Affirmed.

