VAN CAMP & SONS v. AM. CAN CO.
235

245

Syllabus.

expressed in the title." It is fair to conclude, and there
is nothing to suggest the contrary, that in the passage of
the present act the legislature intended to observe this requirement and confine the provisions of the act to the one
subject of price-fixing.
Accordingly, we must hold that the object of the statute
under review was to accomplish the single general purpose
which we have stated, and, that purpose failing for 'want
of constitutional power to effect it, the remaining portions
of the act, serving merely to facilitate or contribute to the
consummation of the purpose, must likewise fall.
Decrees affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES dissents.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE concur

in the result.

GEORGE VAN CAMP & SONS COMPANY v. AMERICAN CAN COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 94.

Argued December 5, 6, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. Petitioner and another company are severally engaged in the
business of packing and selling food products in tin cans, in interstate commerce. Respondent manufactures tin cans, sells them
to petitioner and the other company and leases them machines for
sealing the cans. It sells to the other company at a discount of
20% below the announced standard prices at which it sells cans of
the same kind to the petitioner; it charges the petitioner a fixed
rental for the machines but furnishes them to the other company
free; and it discriminates in other respects. The effect of the
discrimination is to substantially lessen competition, and its tendency is to create a monopoly in the line of interstate commerce
in which petitioner and the other company are competitively
engaged.
Held, that the discrimination violates § 2 of the Clayton Act,
which denounces price discrimination between different purchasers

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Plaintiff.

278 U. S.

where its effect may be to substantially lessen competition or tend
to create a monopoly "in any line of [interstate] commerce."
P. 253.
2. Where the language of a statute is clear and unambiguous, its
meaning is not to be varied by resort to reports of Congressional
Committees or other matters dehors. Id.
3. Exceptions to this general rule are rare, and deal with provisions
which, literally applied, would offend the moral sense, involve injustice, oppression, or absurdity, or lead to an unreasonable result
plainly at variance with the policy of the statute as a whole. Id.

RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals touching a case in which the District Court dismissed a bill to enjoin violations of the Clayton Act.
Mr. Solon J. Carter, with whom Messrs. Frederick E.
Matson, James A. Ross, Austin V. Clifford, Harold K.
Bachelder, and William C. Bachelder were on the brief,
for George Van Camp & Sons Company.
The intent of Congress must be determined by the words
used, unless the language is ambiguous. Minor v. Mechanics Bank, 1 Pet. 46; United States v. Hill, 248 U. S.
420; Thompson v. United States, 246 U. S. 547; United
States v. Standard Brewery, 251 U. S. 210. The words
must be given their usual meaning. Maillard v. Lawrence,
16 How. 251; United States v. 'Temple, 105 U. S. 97;
Cherokee Tobacco Co. v. United States, 11 Wall. 616;
Board v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662.
The word "any" as used is not ambiguous. McMurray
v. Brown, 91 U. S. 257; Caminetti v. United States, 242
U. S. 470;1 Danciger v. Cooley, 248 U. S. 319; Heiner v.
Tindle, 276 U. S. 582; Nigro v. United States, 276 U. S.
332; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1;
StandardFashion Co. v. Magrane-HoustonCo., 258 U. S.
o
346.
An interpretation of the word "any" as used in § 2 of
the Clayton Act to include lines of commerce other than

VAN CAMP & SONS v. AM. CAN CO.
245

-

Argument for Defendants.

those engaged in by the discriminator is in harmony with
the general purpose of all the anti-trust legislation of
Congress. FederalTrade Comm'n v. Beech-Nut Packing
Co., 257, U. S. 441; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Western
Meat Co., 272 U. S. 554. Mennen Co. v. Federal Trade
Comm'n, 288 Fed. 744, considered and rejected.
The history of the Clayton bill, together with the conference committee reports and statements of the members of the conference committee on the floor of Congress,
show that Congress intended the word "any" to be used
in its broadest scope in § 2.
Mr. Win. H. Thompson, with whom Messrs. L. A.
Welles, Samuel D. Miller, Frank C. Dailey, and Albert L.
Rabb were on the brief, for American Can Company.
Mr. Henry H. Hornbrook, with whom Mr. Paul Y.
Davis was on the brief, for The Van Camp Packing
Company.
The word "any" and the phrase in which it appears are
to be read and construed as an integral part of the section. Merrill-RuckgaberCo. v. United States, 241 U. S.
387. When so read, it will be apparent that the "line of
commerce," competition in which is to be protected and
monopoly in which is to be prevented, is and can only be
that commerce in which "it shall be unlawful for any
person to be engaged" and " in the course thereof" to
make the prohibited discriminations. It is not reasonable to suppose, and Congress did not fear, that any
person would go out of his way to create for the benefit
of some other person a monopoly or a lessening of competition in a business in which he himself was not engaged. The natural, proximate, and necessary result of
the granting of improper price discriminations or the making of tying contracts by a manufacturer of tin cans
would be to lessen competition and to create a monopoly
in the tin can business; and not in the canned goods

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendants.

278 U. S.

business, or the wholesale provision business, or the retail grocery business.
Such is the necessary construction of the same words
used in § 3 of the Act, which should be given a like construction.
The word " competition" in that clause of § 2 now in
question should be given the same meaning as the same
word in the clause "made in good faith to meet competition," and the word in the latter clause clearly refers to
competition with competitors of the seller, the persons
"engaged in commerce," and to no other competition.
The only attempt to define competition in § 2 is contained
in the provision that nothing contained in the section
shall prevent discrimination in price in the same or different communities made in good faith "to meet competition." Competition here must mean that between the
discriminator and his competitors.
It is not proper to infer that the phrase "in any line of
commerce" was inserted to extend the application of the
words "monopoly" and " competition," since it was
wholly unnecessary for that purpose.
The word " commerce," as used in the Clayton Act, is
expressly limited to " trade or commerce among the several states." The most obvious purpose of the phrase
"in any line of commerce " is restrictive and not extensive,
to confine the operation of the Act to monopoly and
lessening of competition resulting to trade in interstate
and foreign commerce from the prohibited discriminations
in interstate and foreign commerce.
It is apparent from the Congressional Journals that the
creation of monopolies for the benefit of customers of a
price discriminator, or the suppression of competition between such customers, was not one of the evils in contemplation upon the passage of the Clayton Act.
When, however, it is attempted to restrict the otherwise lawful competitive practices of persons engaged in

VAN CAMP & SONS v. AM. CAN CO.
245

Opinion of the Court.

commerce, not because of any tendency to create monopoly or suppress competition for the person whose conduct
is in question, but solely because of a deleterious effect
upon competition between others, the fact that deliberate
design to achieve such results is not to -be anticipated, so
that monopoly and suppression of competition thus caused
must be of rare occurrence, coupled with the very apparent restriction upon the competitive freedom of the
person whose conduct is regulated, gives every reason to
scrutinize carefully the language sought to be so construed. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421,
at page 428.
The construction of § 2 of the Act suggested by appellees is in harmony with the policy of the Anti-Trust Laws.
The only reported decisions support defendants' contention. Mennen Co. v. Federal Trade Cornm'n, 288 Fed.
774; National Biscuit Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 299
Fed. 733.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought in the Federal District Court for
the District of Indiana to enjoin violations of § 2 of 'the
Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730. U. S. Code, Title 15,
§ 13. From a decree dismissing the bill for want of
equity, an appeal was taken to the court below. Under
§ 239 of the Judicial Code as amended (U. S. Code, Title
28, § 346), that court has certified the following questions
concerning which instructions are desired for the proper
disposition of the cause:
"Question 1. Does section 2 of the 'Clayton Act'
(United States Code, Title 15, Section 13) have application to cases of price discrimination, the effect of which
may be to substantially lessen competition, or tend to
create a monopoly, not in the line of commerce wherein

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

the discriminator is engaged, but in the line of commerce
in which the vendee of the discriminator is engaged?
"Question 2. Where one who makes an article and sells
it, interstate, to persons engaged, interstate, in a line of
commerce different from that of the maker, discriminates
in price between such buyers (said discrimination not being made on account of differences in the grade, quality or
quantity of the commodity sold, nor being made as only
due allowance for the difference in the cost of selling or
transportation, nor being made in good faith to meet competition) and the effect of such discrimination may be to
substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in the line of commerce wherein the buyers are engaged, does the maker and seller of the article, making
such price discrimination, transgress section 2 of the
'Clayton Act' (United States Code, Title 15, Section

13)?"
The relevant facts upon which the questions are based
are set forth as follows:
"The bill charges that appellant, George Van Camp
& Sons Company, is engaged, interstate, in the business
of packing and selling food products in tin cans, and that
appellee Van Camp Packing Company is engaged in the
same business, and is a competitor of appellant; and that
appellee American Can Company manufactures, in very
great quantities, and sells, interstate, to food packers, tin
cans used in the food packing industry, and owns the monopoly for certain machines which are necessary for sealing
the cans of its manufacture, and that it sells such cans in
large quantities to appellant and to appellee Van Camp
Packing Company, and leases to them its machines for
sealing these cans;
"That the American Can Company is unlawfully discriminating between different purchasers of its commodities, in that the price at which it offered and offers and sold

VAN CAMP & SONS v. AM. CAN CO.
245

Opinion of the Court.

and sells its said cans to appellee Van Camp Packing Company is 20% below its publicly announced standard prices
and the prices at which it contracted to sell and did and
does sell its cans of the same kind to appellant, George
Van Camp & Sons Company; that the American Can
Company furnishes food packers, including appellant, its
machines necessary for sealing its said cans at a fixed
rental, and furnishes the same machines to the Van Camp
Packing Company free of charge; that the American Can
Company paid and pays the Van Camp Packing Company
large sums of money by way of bonus, discounts, and reductions from the price of cans fixed in contracts between
them, none of such bonus, discounts, or reductions being
allowed or paid to appellant; and that these discriminations were and are not made on account of differences in
grade, -quality, or quantity of the commodity sold, nor of
the machines leased, nor on account of any difference in
the cost of selling or transportation, nor made in good
faith to meet competition;
"That the effect of such discrimination is to substan-.
tially lessen competition, and tends to create a monopoly
in the line of interstate commerce, in which the appellant,
George Van Camp & Sons Company, and the appellee Van
Camp Packing Company are both engaged, namely, the
packing and selling of food products in tin cans.
"There is no allegation in the bill that the discriminations complained of tended to create a monopoly or substantially lessen competition in the line of commerce in
which the appellee American Can Company is engaged.
" On separate motions of the several appellees on the
ground that said section 2 of the 'Clayton Act' is addressed only to discriminations in price the effect of which
may be to substantially lessen competition, or tend to
create a monopoly in the business in which the discriminator is engaged, the District Court dismissed the bill for

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

want of equity, and the appeal is from the decree of dismissal."
Section 2, copied in the margin,* provides that it shall
be unlawful for any person engaged in commerce, in the
course of such commerce, to discriminate in price between
different purchasers . . where the effect of such discrimination may be to substantially lessen competition or
tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce. As
applied to the present case, the word " commerce" as
there used means interstate commerce. Clayton Act, § 1.
The pertinent facts, shortly stated, are-that George
Van Camp & Sons Company, the complainant, and the
Van Camp Packing Company are both engaged in the
business of packing and selling food products in tin cans
in interstate commerce. The American Can Company
manufactures tin cans used in the food-packing industry
and sells such cans to the other two companies and leases
to them machines for sealing the cans. It sells to the packing company at a discount of twenty per cent. below the
announced standard prices at which it sells cans of the
same kind to the complainant; it charges complainant a
* It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commerce, in the
course of such commerce, either directly or indirectly to discriminate
in price between different purchasers of commodities, which commodities are sold for use, consumption, or resale within the United States
or any Territory thereof or the District of Columbia or any insular
possession or other place under the jurisdiction of the United States,
where the effect of such discrimination may be to substantially lessen
competition or tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce:
Provided, That nothing herein contained shall prevent discrimination
in price between purchasers of commodities on account of differences
in the grade, quality, or quantity of the commodity sold, or that makes
only due allowance for difference in the cost of selling or transportation, or discrimination in price in the same or different communities
made in good faith to meet competition: And provided further, That
nothing herein contained shall prevent persons engaged in selling
goods, wares, or merchandise in commerce from selecting their own
customers in bona fide transactions and not in restraint of trade.

VAN CAMP & SONS v. AM. CAN CO.
245

Opinion of the Court.

fixed rental for the sealing machines, but furnishes them
to the packing company free of charge; and it discriminates in other respects. The effect of the discrimination
is to substantially lessen competition, and its tendency is
to -create a monopoly, in the line of interstate commerce
in which complainant and the packing company are competitively engaged.
These facts bring the case within the terms of the statute, unless the words "in any line of commerce " are to
be given a narrower meaning than a literal reading of
them conveys. The phrase is comprehensive and means
that if the forbidden effect or tendency is produced in
one out of all the various lines of commerce, the words
"in any line of commerce" literally are satisfied. The
contention is that the words must be confined to the particular line of commerce in which the discriminator is engaged, and that they do not include a different line of
commerce in which purchasers from the discriminator are
engaged in competition with one another. In support of
this contention, we are asked to consider reports of Congressional committees and other familiar aids to statutory
construction. But the general rule that "the province
of construction lies wholly within the domain of ambiguity," Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414, 419, 421,
is too firmly established by the numerous decisions of
this Court either to require or permit us to do so. The
words being clear, they are decisive. There is nothing to
construe. To search elsewhere for a meaning either beyond or short of that which they disclose is to invite the
danger, in the one case, of converting what was meant to
be open and precise, into a concealed trap for the unsuspecting, or, in the other, of relieving from the grasp of
the statute some whom the legislature definitely meant to
include. Decisions of this Court, where the letter of the
statute was not deemed controlling and the legislative
intent was determined by a consideration of circumstances

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

apart from the plain language used, are of rare occurrence
and exceptional character, and deal with provisions which,
literally applied, offend the moral sense, involve injustice,
oppression or absurdity, United States v. Goldenberg, 168
U. S. 95, 103, or lead to an unreasonable result, plainly at
variance with the policy of the statute as a whole. Ozawa
v. United States, 260 U. S. 178, 194. Nothing of this kind
is to be found in the present case. The fundamental
policy of the legislation is that, in respect of persons engaged in the same line of interstate commerce, competition is desirable and that whatever substantially lessens
it or tends to create a monopoly in such line of commerce
is an evil. Offence against this policy, by a discrimination
in prices exacted by the seller from different purchasers
of similar goods, is no less clear when it produces the evil
in respect of the line of commerce in which they are engaged than when it produces the evil in respect of the line
of commerce in which the seller is engaged. In either case,
a restraint is put upon "the freedom of competition in
the channels of interstate trade which it has been the purpose of all the anti-trust acts to maintain." Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S. 441, 454.
We have not failed carefully to consider Mennen Co. v.
Federal Trade Comm'n, 288 Fed. 774, (followed in National Biscuit Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 299 Fed.
733), cited as contrary to the conclusion we have reached.
The decision in that case was based upon the premise that
the statute was ambiguous and required the aid of committee reports, etc., to determine its meaning, a premise
which we have rejected as unsound.
Both questions submitted are answered in the affirmative.
Question No. 1, Yes.
Question No. 2, Yes.

