COMMERCIAL INS. CO. v. STONE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

175

There has been some difference of opinion in the lower
Courts but we regard the interpretation of the law as
plain.
Judgment affirmed.
COMMERCIAL CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY v. CONSOLIDATED STONE COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 75.

Argued November 27, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. The objection that a suit in the District Court between citizens of
different States was not brought in the district of the residence of
either, goes only to the venue and is waived when the defendant,
though duly summoned, remains passive, neither answering nor
appearing, and suffers judgment by default. P. 179.
2. The waiver in such case results also under ยง 11311, Ohio Gen.
Code, the objection to venue being apparent on the face of the
plaintiff's petition. P. 180.
RESPONSE

to a question certified by the Circuit Court

of Appeals.
Mr. Rees H. Davis, with whom Mr. Paul Lamb was on
the brief, for the Commercial Casualty Insurance
Company.
Mr. Norman A. Emery, with whom Mr. Union C.
DeFord was on the brief, for the Consolidated Stone
Company.,
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
We here are concerned with a certificate wherein the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, pursuant to
ยง 346, Title 28, United States Code, propounds a question
of law arising in a case pending in that court.
2722

-29-

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

The material facts are: A corporation of Indiana
brought a transitory action at law against a corporation
of New Jersey in a federal district court in Ohio.

That

court's jurisdiction was invoked only on the ground that
the parties were citizens of different States; and the value
of the matter in controversy was in excess of the statutory requirement. The defendant was doing business in
Ohio and, in accord with the state law, had designated a
local agent upon whom process against it might be served.
Summons was duly served within the district upon that
agent. The defendant neither appeared nor answered
within the period limited therefor, and judgment went
against it by default. Later in the same term the defendant moved that the judgment be vacated and the
action dismissed because the action was brought in a district in which neither party resided. That motion was
denied. The defendant then moved that the judgment be
vacated, and leave to defend be granted, on the asserted
ground that the summons, although forwarded by the
agent to the defendant's home office, had been overlooked.
That motion also was denied. The defendant then sued
out a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals. The
certificate-after eliminating the ruling on the second
motion-says of the asserted basis of the first motion:
"Familiar cases say that this defect in the jurisdiction
pertains to the venue, and defendant may either insist
upon it or may waive it. In this case there was neither
affirmative insistence nor affirmative waiver. Defendant
allowed the time for effective objections to expire and did
nothing."
Shortly stated, the question propounded is whether it
was open to the defendant, after permitting the cause to
proceed to judgment by default, to object that the action
was not brought in the district of the residence of either
party.

COMMERCIAL INS. CO. v. STONE CO.
177

179

Opinion of the Court.

The pertinent statutes are sections 41 and 112, Title 28,
United States Code. One provides that district courts
shall have" original jurisdiction" of certain classes of civil
suits, including suits "between citizens of different
States" where the value of the matter in controversy,
exclusive of interest and costs, exceeds $3,000. The other
provides that "where the jurisdiction is founded only on
the fact that the action is between citizens of different
States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant."
These provisions often have been examined and construed by this Court. Summarized, the decisions are directly to the effect that the first provision invests each of
the district courts with general jurisdiction of all civil
suits between citizens of different States, where the matter
in controversy is of the requisite pecuniary value; and that
the other provision does not detract from that general
jurisdiction, but merely accords to the defendant a personal privilege respecting the venue, or place of suit,
which he may assert, or may waive, at his election.1
The decisions also make it plain that the privilege must
be "seasonably" asserted; else it is waived.2 Whether
there was a seasonable assertion in the present case is the
real question to be determined.
We are of opinion that the privilege is of such a nature
that it must be asserted at latest before the expiration of
the period allotted for entering a general appearance and
'Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.. 260 U. S. 653, 655 and cases
cited; Peoria & Pekin Union Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 528,
535-536; Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 383-385; Seaboard Rice Milling Co. v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co.,
270 U. S. 363, 365; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Galbreath Cattle Co.,
2712 U. S. 99, 102-103.
Martin v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 673, 688; In re
Keasbey and Mattison Co., 160 U. S. 221, 229-231; General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261, 273.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

challenging the merits. In ordinary course, when that
period expires the defendant either will have appeared
generally for the purpose of contesting the merits or by
suffering a default will have assented that his adversary's
allegations be taken as confessed for the purposes of judgment. In either event the suit will have reached the stage
where attention must be given to the merits. In common
practice objections to venue are presented and acted upon
at an earlier stage; and this, so far as we are advised, is
true of the elective privilege here in question. No adjudged case is cited in which a different practice is either
sustained or shown. To hold that such a privilege may
be retained until after the suit has reached the stage for
dealing with the merits and then be asserted would be in
our opinion subversive of orderly procedure and make for
harmful delay and confusion.
It was apparent on the face of the plaintiff's petition
that jurisdiction was grounded solely on diversity of citizenship and that the suit was brought in a district of
which neither party was a resident. The defendant, although duly served with a proper summons apprising it
of the time within which it was required to appear and
answer, permitted that time to elapse without making any
objection to the venue, or place of suit, by motion, pleading or otherwise.
The Ohio practice statute prescribes that all objections
thus appearing when so neglected shall be deemed to have
been waived, "except only that the court has no jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action and that the petition does not state facts which show a cause of action."
Ohio Gen. Code, sec. 11311.
Here the objection was not that the court was without
jurisdiction of the subject matter of the suit, but that
the suit was not brought in the district of the residence
of either party-a waivable matter of venue only.8
8 Peoria& Pekin Union Ry. Co. v. United States, supra.

RUSSELL v. UNITED STATES.
177

Statement of the Case.

Our conclusion is that the objection was not seasonably
made and therefore that under our decisions, as also the
Ohio statute, it was waived. The question before stated
must be answered in the negative. A second or alternative question is propounded in the certificate, but an
answer to it is rendered unnecessary by the answer to the
other.
Question No. 1, Answered No.

RUSSELL

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 58. Argued November 22, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929,
1. The Revenue Act of 1921 limited the time within which income
and profits taxes imposed by the Act of 1918 might be
assessed, and within which suit might be brought to collect them,
to five years from the filing of the return. Section 277 of the
Revenue Act of 1924 preserves the same limitation generally, but
where assessment is made within the prescribed period, ยง 278
permits suit to be brought within six years from the assessment,
that section declaring, however, that it shall not authorize any suit
.barred by existing limitation, or "affect any assessment" made
before the date of the Act. Held, considering these and other
features of the 1924 Act, that the provision extending the time for
suit should be construed prospectively as relating only to assessments made after that Act was passed. P. 185.
2. Changes introduced by a later Act cannot authorize construction
of an earlier one not consonant with its language. P. 188.
22 F. (2d) 249, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 276 U. S. 612, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which reversed a decree dismissing a bill
brought by the United States against the stockholders to
recover the amount of income and profits taxes which had
been assessed against a corporation before it was dissolved
and its assets distributed among the defendants.

