ROE v. KANSAS.
188

Counsel for Parties.

Here, without any authority of law, the appellant obtained an appeal. Thereby he has needlessly consumed
our time and imposed serious delay upon the appellees and
otherwise burdened them.
The appeal must be dismissed. Damages of one hundred and fifty dollars payable to the appellees, together
with all costs, will be taxed against the appellant.
Appeal dismissed.

ROE v. KANSAS

EX REL.

SMITH, ATTORNEY

GENERAL,

ET AL.

ERROR TO' THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.

No. 63. Argued November 23, 1928. -

Decided January 2, 1929.

1. A writ of error based on a frivolous -ground will be dismissed
and a penalty may be taxed against the plaintiff in error. P. 192.
2. There is no basis for doubting the power of a State to condemn
places of unusual historical interest for the use and benefit of the
public. P. 193.
3. Construction of state condemnation statutes by the State Supreme Court held binding on this Court. Id.
Writ of Error to 124 Kan. 716, dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas
affirming a judgment for the condemnation of plaintiffin-error's land.
Mr., T. F. Railsback, with whom Mr. J. H. Brady was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Wm. A. Smith, Attorney General of Kansas,
Messrs. John G. Egan and Roland Boynton, Assistant Attorneys General, Mr. Howard Payne, County Attorney,
and Messrs. Ray H. Calihan and Randal C. Harvey were
on the brief for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.JUSTICE

278 U. S.

MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This writ of error to the Supreme Court of Kansas must
be dismissed. The alleged grounds therefor are so lacking in substance that they may be properly designated as
frivolous.
Plaintiff in error unsuccessfully resisted condemnation
by the State of Kansas of the Shawnee Mission, a place
held by the court below to possess unusual historical interest. She claims that the legislation under which the
proceedings were conducted conflicts with the Fourteenth
Amendment and to permit its enforcement will deprive
her of property without due process of law. Her theory
is that the assailed statutes do not adequately specify the
reason for the condemnation and fail to reveal the use to
which the property is. to be put; that it "was not taken
for any specified or particular use, and therefore, for no
public use."
Chapter 26, Art. 3, Kansas Rev. Stats. 1923, provides"That the power of eminent domain shall extend to any
tract or parcel of land in the State of Kansas, which possesses unusual historical interest. Such land may be taken
for the use and benefit of the State by condemnation as
herein provided."
And Chap. 205, Laws of 1927,
declares that the land in question possesses unusual
historical interest and directs its taking for the use of
the State by condemnation, as provided by law.
The Supreme Court of the State held that [124 Kan.
716, 718]"The meaning of the statute is clear enough, that places
invested with unusual historical interest may be acquired
by the state by gift, devise, or condemnation, for the use
and benefit of the state, as places of that character. If

ROE v. KANSAS.
191

Opinion of the Court.

there were any doubt about this, the joint resolution and
the appropriation act relating to acquisition of the Shawnee Mission interpret the eminent domain statute, and
show what the legislative *intention was. The state historical society is to be custodian of the place. On taking
it over, a qualified person is to make a survey and recommend measures for proper preservation and restoration
of the Mission, and all things are to be done necessary
to and consistent with use of the place by the state as a
place of unusual historical interest." And further that
the Shawnee Mission is a place invested with unusual
historical interest the use of which by the State is a
public one.
Under the circumstances here revealed the construction
placed upon her statutes by the Supreme Court of Kansas
is binding upon us. McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S.
102; Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200
U. S.527, 530; Union Lime Co. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry.
Co., 233 U. S.211, 221. In view of what was said in United
States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry. Co., 160 U. S.668, 680,
there is no basis for doubting the power of the State to
condemn places of unusual historical interest for the use
and benefit of the public.
In John Slaker, Admr. vs. Charles O'Connor, just decided, ante p. 188, we have referred to the statutes and -rule
which give us authority to impose penalties and costs
where causes are brought here upon frivolous appeals or
writs of error. The alleged ground for the present writ is
without substance, and the circumstances justify the imposition of a penalty upon the party at fault.
The writ of error will be dismissed and a penalty of two
hundred dollars, payable to the defendants in error, together with all costs, will be taxed against the plaintiff
in error.
Writ of error dismissed.
27228'-29-13

