UNITED STATES v. LOAN & BLDG. CO.
41

Syllabus.

court was bound to look to the language employed and
construe it in its natural and obvious sense, even though
that was to give the words of the act an effect probably
never contemplated by those who obtained the act and
very probably not intended by the legislature which enacted it. The King v. The Commissioners, 5 A. & E. 804,
816. See also, United States v. Lexington Mill Co., 232
U. S. 399; Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S.470, 485;
Russell Co. v. United States, 261 U. S.514, 519.
The enforcement of the statute according to its plain
terms results in no absurdity or injustice, for, as this
Court recently said, in holding the United States liable
for damages including interest in a collision case where
the Governmenthad come into court to assert a claim on
its own behalf: " The absence of legal liability in a case
where but for its sovereignty it would be liable does not
destroy the justice of the claim against it." United
States v. The Thekla, 266 U. S. 328, 340.
To refuse interest in this case, in my opinion, is completely to change the clear meaning of the words employed by Congress by invoking the aid of extrinsic circumstances to import into the statute an ambiguity which
otherwise does not exist and thereby to set at naught the
prior decisions of this Court and long established canons
of statutory construction.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, MR. JUSTICE SANFORD
JUSTICE STONE concur in this opinion.

and MR.

UNITED STATES v. CAMBRIDGE LOAN AND
BUILDING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 46. Argued October 23, 24, 1928.-Decided November 19, 1928.
1. A corporation which by the law of its State is a building and loan
association, and the business of which is conducted in accordance
with that law, is a "building and loan association" within the

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

meaning of sections 231 of the Revenue Acts of 1918 and 1921,
granting exemption from income tax, if its operations be not so
related to mere money-making as to constitute a gross abuse of the
name. P. 57.
2. The activities of the respondent in the way of receiving deposits
on interest and making loans to persons not among its members
(borrowers being required since the Act of 1921, supra, to purchase
from one to five shares of its stock) did not disqualify it for the
tax exemption. Id.
3. The Act of 1921, supra, in confining the exemption to building and
loan associations "substantially all of the business of which is confined to making loans to members," did not limit loans to the
amount of shares subscribed for. P. 59.
4. An Act directing that certain taxes be refunded as "illegally collected" is an interpretation of the prior Act under which they were
exacted and by implication approves decisions of the federal courts
holding the exaction unwarranted. P. 58.
61 Ct. Cls. 631, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 276 U. S. 614, to a judgment allowing recovery on a claim for money paid under duress as income
taxes.

Mr. T. H. Lewis, Jr., Attorney, Bureau of Internal Revenue with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Assistant
Attorney General Galloway were on the brief, for the

United States.
Mr. L. L. Hamby for respondent.
Messrs. Cleaveland R. Cross and Herbert W. Nauts filed

a brief as amici curiae by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the respondent to recover the
amount of taxes for the years 1918 through 1923, paid
under duress, from which it says that it was exempt by
the Acts under which the taxes were levied. It recovered

UNITED STATES v. LOAN & BLDG. CO.
55

Qpinion of the Court.

in the Court of Claims and a writ of certiorari was granted
by this Court, April 9, 1928.
The respondent is incorporated under the laws of Ohio,
by which it is recognized as a building and loan association, and it has conducted its business in accordance with
the laws of that State. The Revenue Act of 1918, February 24, 1919, c. 18, § 231, 40 Stat. 1057, 1076, exempts
from the taxes in question " (4) Domestic building and
loan associations and cooperative banks without capital
stock organized and operated for mutual purposes and
without profit." The Act of November 23, 1921, c. 136,
§ 231, 42 Stat. 227, 253, exempts " (4) Domestic building and loan associations substantially all the business of
which is confined to making loans to members; and cooperative banks without capital stock organized and operated formutual purposes and without profit." These
are the statutes concerned. No definition is given of
building and loan associations, and the question is what
scope is to be given to the words.
The rudimentary form of such associations is supposed
to be a society raising by subscription of its members a
fund for making advances to members in order to enable
them to build or buy houses of their own. A member
is entitled to borrow on sufficient security an amount
equal to his subscription for shares and when the shares
are paid up by the instalment payments required and the
profits of the company his indebtedness is cancelled.
The Government argues that the essence of these societies, what gives them their quasi public character and
the only thing that warrants exempting them from taxes,
is that their single purpose is to enable people to get
homes of their own. When one of them yields to the
temptation to enlarge its operations and to make a little
money outside, the Government says, it loses its title
to its distinctive name and to the exemption that the statute gives. The respondent received a large proportion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

deposits from persons who were not members and it paid
interest upon the same, and it also made considerable
loans to such persons until the passage of the Act of 1921.
Even when the borrower was a stockholder he was required only to subscribe for from one to five shares regardless of the amount of the loan. It is argued that thus
the society became a mere money-making institution like
an ordinary bank.
But for such an association to start it must have some
money to lend, and the typical member does not have it.
Long before Congress dealt with loan and building associations, an esteemed writer upon the subject had insisted
on the reasonableness of allowing them to issue full paid
stock with fixed dividends, both in his book and upon the
bench. Endlich, Building Associations, 2d. ed. (1895),
§ 462. Folk v. Capital Savings & Loan Ass'np214 Penn.
529, 534, 544 (1906). The same author recognized depositors, § 56, and with more or less qualification the right
to lend to outsiders, §§ 314, et seq., and to borrow §§ 297,
et seq. Under the Ohio statute the respondent has these
powers, and still, as we have said, is called a building
and loan association by that State. The same name was
commonly used in other States and similar powers were
given with more or less restriction. When Congress
exempted such associations from the income tax of course
it was speaking of existing societies that commonly were
known as such, not of ideals that would have been hard
to find. And this is not left to inference alone. Some
corporations having been taxed under the Act of August 5,
1909, c. 6, § 38; 36 Stat. 11, 12,'which exempted 'domestic
building and loan associations organized exclusively for
the mutual benefit of their members,' the Act of February
26, 1917, c. 129; 39 Stat. 1491, 1493, directed the tax to
be refunded as 'illegally collected' and included the respondent among the corporations named. This Act followed and by implication sanctioned decisions to similar

UNITED STATES v. LOAN & BLDG. CO.
55

Opinion of the Court.

effect in Herold v. Park-View Building & Loan Ass'n, 210
Fed. 577 (203 Fed. 876); Central Building, Loan & Savings Co. v. Bowland, 216 Fed. 526.
This interpretation was adhered to for the Act of 1909
and succeeding Acts, including that of 1918 now before
us, until a few months before the Act of 1921. It was
incorporated in Regulations of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue approved by the Secretary of the Treasury as late as January 28, 1921, and up to then no taxes
had been levied or paid. In June of that year, however,
the Regulations were modified so as to declare the societies taxable if the amounts borrowed from and lent to
non-members were out of proportion to the borrowing
needs of the members, and otherwise to limit the use of
such societies as a mask to escape taxation. The present
taxes are upheld by the Government on the ground that
the respondent is such a mask. It is argued that even
admitting all that has been said thus far, a State cannot
make a bank exempt merely by calling it a building and
loan association. No doubt extravagant cases might be
imagined. But these associations are well known and
a State is not likely to be party to a scheme to enable
a private company to avoid federal taxation by giving it
a false name. The statutes speak of ' domestic' associations, that is, associations sanctioned by the several
States. They must be taken to accept, with the qualifications expressly stated, what the States are content to
recognize, unless there is a gross misuse of the name. The
State of Ohio has recognized and still recognizes the
respondent as belonging to the class which its name indicates. Very possibly the company has strained its
privileges to near the limit, but we are not prepared to
condemn the nomenclature adopted by the State. When
the Act of 1921 was passed and added the words 'substantially all the business of which is confined to making
loans to members,' the respondent conformed to the

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
278 U. S.

Syllabus.

statute, by requiring membership as a condition to a loan.
The statute did not limit loans to the amount of stock
subscribed for. We may add that the net dividends are
distributed to members at an equal rate to all.
We deem it plain that no taxes were warranted before
the Act of 1921, and are of opinion that the taxes under
that also were not justified, although as we have said the
rights of the company were pressed somewhat far. In
coming to this result we have not thought it necessary to
go into details of disputed significance, thinking it enough
to state the point of view from which we regard the case.
The assessment was not made until September 18,
1924, up to which time the respondent not unreasonably
had supposed itself exempt, and then was taxed retrospectively for the five years before the one then current.
In the meantime the respondent has distributed its
money in dividends to its members and they presumably
have paid income taxes on the dividends received. The
statute of limitations had run or was running against
them when the Government at the last moment filed a
motion to remand that would have delayed the case and
would have given the statute a further chance to run.
The facts alleged in the motion sufficiently appear in the
findings of the Court of Claims and so far as material have
been assumed in the discussion of the case.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. LENSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 48. Argued October 24, 1928.-Decided' November 19, 1928.
Under the Act of June 10, 1922, a lieutenant of the Staff Corps of the
Navy, who has served for fifteen years as enlisted man, warrant
officer and commissioned officer, and whose first appointment to

