BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
60

Syllabus.

in computing longevity pay." But when Congress with
all this before it, specified commissioned service we must
take it to have meant commissioned service and not something else that for other purposes was just as good.
The same paragraph of the same section gives pay of
the fourth period to lieutenants of the Navy 'who have
completed seventeen years' service.' Under that provision
the claimant's service as an enlisted man is counted and
he now gets the pay. But this brings out the contrast
embodied in the words between service and commissioned
service. Assuming that lieutenant commanders could
make out their fourteen years by counting service rendered before they received commissions, still it is the commissioned service of the claimants that must equal that
of the lieutenant commanders, and we repeat the claimant
shows no case of a lieutenant commander whose service
or even whose commissioned service was not more than
about three years and a half. The statute is not very
clear, but we are of opinion that the Government is right
in denying the claim.
Judgment reversed.
NEW YORK EX EEL. BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 2. Submitted October 11, 1927.-Decided November 19, 1928.
1. Jurisdiction of this Court over an appellate case can not be established by consent or acquiescence of parties. P. 66.
2. The validity of a state statute may be drawn in question under
§ 237a of the Judicial Code, on the ground of its being repugnant
to the Federal Constitution, without the use of any particular form
of words. If the record as a whole shows, either expressly or by
clear intendment, that this claim of invalidity and ground therefor
were brought to the attention of the state court with fair precision and in due time, the claim is to be regarded as having been
adequately presented. P. 67.

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of the Case.

278 U. S.

3. To show that such claim of invalidity was denied by the state
court, it is not necessary that the ruling shall have been put in
direct terms; it suffices if the necessary effect of the judgment has
been to deny the claim. P. 67.
4. A proceeding in habeas corpus in c state court, in keeping with the
state practice, to obtain the release of one held in custody under
a criminal charge, upon the ground that the state statute on which
the charge is based violates the Federal Constitution, is a "suit"
within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 237a; and an order of the
state court of last resort refusing the discharge is a final judgment
in that suit and subject to review by this Court. P. 70.
5. The privilege of being and remaining a member of an oath-bound
association within a State can not be within the privilege and
immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, since it is not a
privilege arising out of United States citizenship. P. 71.
6. To require associations having an oath-bound membership to file
with a state officer sworn copies of their constitutions, oaths of
membership, etc., with lists of their members and officers, and to
provide that persons who become or remain members, or attend
meetings, knowing that such requirement has not been complied
with, shall be arrested and punished, is a reasonable exercise of
the police power, and not a violation of such persons' liberty under
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 72.
7. Such regulations do not violate the equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment when applied to one class of oath-bound associations and not to another class, if the class so regulated has a
tendency to make the secrecy of its purposes and membership a
cloak for conduct inimical to the personal rights of others and to
the public welfare, while the other class is free from that tendency.
P. 73.
8. Confining the regulations to associations having a membership of
twenty or more persons is not an unreasonable discrimination.
P. 77.
241 N. Y. 405, affirmed.

ERROR to a final order of the Supreme Court of New
York, entered upon remittitur from the Court of Appeals. The latter court affirmed the Appellate Division
in affirming an order discharging the relator's writ of
habeas corpus. See 123 Misc. 859; 213 App. Div. 414.

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. John H. Connaughton, Wm. F. Zumbrunn, and
Wm. B. Brown submitted for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. Albert Ottinger, Attorney General of New
York, John H. Clogston, Deputy Attorney General, Walter F. Hofheins, and Guy B. Moore submitted for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The relator, Bryant, who was held in custody to answer
a charge of violating a statute of New York, brought a
proceeding in habeas corpus in a court of that State to
obtain his discharge on the ground, as was stated in the
petition, that the warrant under which he was arrested
and detained was issued without any jurisdiction, in that
the statute which he was charged with violating was
unconstitutional.
The court sustained the validity of the statute and
refused to discharge him, 123 Misc. 859; and that judgment was affirmed by the Appellate Division, 213 App.
Div. 414, and by the Court of Appeals, 241 N. Y. 405.
He then sued out the present writ of error under § 237(a)
of the Judicial Code-his assignment of errors presented
in obtaining the writ being to the effect that the Court
of Appeals erroneously had held the statute valid against
a contention made by him that it was invalid because
repugnant to so much of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States as declares:
"No State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of
life, liberty or property without due process of law; nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws."
27228'-29-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U.S.

The material parts of the state statute (Art. V-A Civil
Rights Law; c. 664, Laws 1923, 1110) are as follows:
"Sec. 53. Every existing membership corporation, and
every existing unincorporated association having a membership of twenty or more persons, which corporation or
association requires an oath as a prerequisite or condition
of membership, other than a labor union or a benevolent
order mentioned in the benevolent orders law, within
thirty days after this article takes effect, and every such
corporation or association hereafter organized, within ten
days after the adoption thereof, shall file with the secretary of state a sworn copy of its constitution, by-laws,
rules, regulations and oath of membership, together with
a roster of its membership and a list of its officers for the
current year .......
"Sec. 56. . . Any person who becomes a member
of any such corporation or association, or remains a member thereof, or attends a meeting thereof, with knowledge
that such corporation or association has failed to comply
with any provision of this article, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor."
Both parties treat the case as rightly here and as presenting the question whether the state statute is repugnant to the provisions before quoted from the Fourteenth
Amendment. But as consent or acquiescence of the
parties does not suffice to establish our appellate jurisdiction, and some of our number have doubted the existence of such jurisdiction in this case, we now take up the
question.
Section 237a of the Judicial Code (§ 344, Title 28, U. S.
Code) provides that this Court may review upon writ
of error I " a final judgment or decree in any suit" in the
I The acts of January 31, 1928, c.14, 45 Stat. 54, and April 26, 1928,
c. 440, 45 Stat. 466, substituted an appeal for a writ of error. See
Revised Rules, 275 U. S., appendix, pp. 630, 646, 647.

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

63

court of last resort of a State "where is drawn in question
the validity of a statute of any State on the ground of its
being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws of
the United States, and the decision is in favor of its
validity." It is under this provision that a review is
invoked.
There are various ways in which the validity of a state
statute may be drawn in question on the ground that it
is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
No particular form of words or phrases is essential, but
only that the claim of invalidity and the ground therefor
be brought to the attention of the state court with fair
precision and in due time. And if the record as a whole
shows either expressly or by clear intendment that this
was done, the claim is to be regarded as having been
adequately presented.2
Of course the decision must have been against the claim
of invalidity, but it is not necessary that the ruling shall
have been put in direct terms. If the necessary effect
of the judgment has been to deny the claim, that is
enough.'
With these general rules in mind we turn to what is
shown in this case. The petition for habeas corpus, while
asserting that the state statute was "unconstitutional,"
contained no mention of any constitutional provision,
state or federal. The opinion delivered by the court of
Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368, 392, 398; Neilson v. Lagow, 12
How. 98, 109-110; Furman v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44, 56; Green Bay etc.,
Canal Co. v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58, 67-68; St. Louis, Iron
Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592, 598-599;
Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357, 360.
3 Crowell v. Randell, supra; Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540,
548; Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 236;
Walter A. Wood Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S. 293, 295; Roby v. Colehour,
146 U. S. 153, 159-160; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry
Co. v. Starbird, supra, p. 601.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

first instance was similarly indefinite. Up to that point
it is left uncertain whether the claim of invalidity was
grounded on some provision of the state constitution, or
on some provision of the Constitution of the United
States, or on both. If this were all, there plainly would
be no basis .for a review in this Court. But more appears.
The relator took an appeal to the Appellate Division.
The appeal was not accompanied by an assignment of
errors, but this was not an omission. The local practice
does not recognize an assignment of errors as known in
other jurisdictions; it merely requires the appellant to
set forth in a printed brief "the points to be relied on
by him." In the opinion delivered, which for present
purposes is deemed part of the record,' the Appellate
Division stated distinctly that the relator's claim of invalidity was grounded on asserted repugnance to both
the due process of law clause of the state constitution and
the clauses hereinbefore quoted from the Fourteenth
Amendment. After so stating the claim the court considered it at length and denied it. From that decision
the relator appealed to the Court of Appeals. Again the
appeal was not accompanied by an assignment of errors;
and for the same reason as before. See Rule 7, Court of
Appeals Rules. The appeal was entertained and the
decision of the Appellate Division was affirmed. The
Court of Appeals in its opinion does not mention the
constitution of the State or the Fourteenth Amendment,
but does state that the relator was asserting the "unconstitutionality" of the statute on the ground that it deprived him of his liberty without due process of law and
denied him the equal protection of the laws, etc.
Nothing in the opinion is at all indicative of an aban4 Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 633; PhiladelphiaFire Association v. New York, 119 U. S. 110, 116; San Jose Land & Water

Co. v. San Jose Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177, 179-180; Neilsen v. Lagow,
12 How. 98, 109-110.

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

Opinion of the Court.

donment by the relator of his reliance on the Fourteenth
Amendment which was so distinctly stated in the opinion
of the Appellate Division. On the contrary, the court's
discussion of the case and its citation of authorities proceed as if it were considering the identical claim of invalidity that was presented in the Appellate Division and
there denied. Among the citations are several decisions
of this Court dealing only with the clauses before quoted
from the Fourteenth Amendment. Indeed, the opinion
shows that in upholding the statute against the contention that it denies the equal protection of the laws the
Court of Appeals practically rested its decision " on the
authority" of Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 296,
297, where another statute of New York assailed as in
conflict with the equal protection clause of that Amendment was sustained.
From this showing in the record, coupled with the
absence from the state constitution of an equal protection
of the laws clause, we think it apparent that the claim
of invalidity by reason of the statute's repugnance to the
Fourteenth Amendment was presented to the Court of
Appeals and that by its decision the statute was upheld
against that claim.
Upon looking at that decision as published in the
official reports (241 N. Y. 405) we find it stated by the
reporter in his accompanying synopsis of the briefs that
the brief on behalf of the relator embodied the specific
claim that the statute was invalid because in conflict
with the equal protection and other provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment. But as we otherwise reach the
conclusion that the claim was adequately made, there is
no need to notice what is said in the reporter's synopsis
beyond observing that it probably points to the reason
why both parties, and the Chief Judge who allowed the
writ of error, treated the case as one in which the question
of the validity of the statute under the Constitution of
the United States had been properly presented.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Our jurisdiction to review the decision is questioned also
because of the nature of the case, it being a proceeding in
habeas corpus brought to obtain the discharge of one who
is held in custody to answer a charge of violating a state
statute alleged to be invalid by reason of its conflict with
the Constitution of the United States. But we think our
jurisdiction is in this regard so well established by prior
decisions and long-continued practice that it is not debatable.
In the early case of Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540,
563, 568, 597, this Court held after much consideration
that a proceeding in habeas corpus in a state court to
obtain the release of one held in custody upon a criminal
charge, where the detention is alleged to be in violation
of the Constitution of the United States, is a "suit"
within the meaning of the jurisdictional statute, and that
an order of the state court of last resort refusing to discharge him is a final judgment in that suit and subject
to review by this Court. That holding has been respected
and given effect in an unbroken line of later decisions,
all of which in their material facts and surroundings were
like the case now before us.' It also has been followed in
other cases related in principle.6
The proceeding before us was not brought in antagonism
to the established practice in the State, but in entire
5 Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S.
650; Lieberman v. Van De Carr, 199 U. S. 552; Silz v. Hesterberg,
211 U. S. 31; Flaherty v. Hanson, 215 U. S. 515; Collins v. Texas,
223 U. S. 288; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52.
6
Abelman v. Booth, 21 How. 506; In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1;
Ward v. Racehorse, 163 U. S. 504; Urquhart v. Brown, 205 U. S.
179, 181-182. And see Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 464; Plessy
v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537; Mt. Vernon Cotton Co. v. Alabama Power
Co., 240 U. S. 30; Detroit & Mackinac Ry. Co. v. Michigan R. R.
Comm., 240 U. S. 564; St. Louis, B. & M. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 266
U. S. 200,

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

Opinion of the Court.

keeping with that practice as confirmed by local statutes.
Civil Practice Act, Art. 77, §§ 1230-1235, 1251. This
was recoghized in the decisions given by the courts of the
State. And the proceeding was independent, adversary,
and both adapted and directed to the enforcement of a
most important personal right. It is quite unlike the
fragmentary or branch proceeding considered in Grays
Harbor Logging Co. v. Coats-Fordney Logging Co., 243
U. S. 251, 256; the judgment in which was held to be interlocutory only, and not final in the sense of the jurisdictional statute.
We are accordingly of opinion that the case and the
judgment therein are of such a nature that we have
jurisdiction to review the latter.
The offense charged against the relator is that he attended meetings and remained a member of the Buffalo
Provisional Klan of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan,
an unincorporated association-but neither a labor union
nor a benevolent order mentioned in the benevolent orders
law-having a membership of more than twenty persons
and requiring an oath as a prerequisite or condition of
membership, he then having knowledge that such association had wholly failed to comply with the requirement
in § 53.
There are various privileges and immunities which!
under our dual system of government belong to citizens
of the United States solely by reason of such citizenship.
It is against their abridgement by state laws that the
privilege and immunity clause in the Fourteenth Amendment is directed. But no such privilege or immunity is in
question here. If to be and remain a member of a secret,
oath-bound association within a State be a privilege arising out of citizenship at all, it is an incident of state
rather than United States citizenship; and such protection as is thrown about it by the Constitution is in no

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

wise affected by its possessor being a citizen of the United
States. Thus there is no basis here for invoking the privi7
lege and immunity clause.
The relator's contention under the due process clause
is that the statute deprives him of liberty in that it prevents him from exercising his right of membership in the
association. But his liberty in this regard, like most other
personal rights, must yield to the rightful exertion of the
police power. There can be no doubt that under that
power the State may prescribe and apply to associations
having an oath-bound membership any reasonable regulation calculated to confine their purposes and activities
within limits which are consistent with the rights of
others and the public welfare. The requirement in § 53
that each association shall file with the secretary of state
a sworn copy of its constitution, oath of membership, etc.,
with a list of members and officers is such a regulation.
It proceeds on the two-fold theory that the State within
whose territory and under whose protection the association exists is entitled to be informed of its nature and
purpose, of whom it is composed .and by whom its activities are conducted, and that requiring this information to
be supplied for the public files will operate as an effective
or substantial deterrent from the violations of public and
private right to which the association might be tempted
if such a disclosure were not required. The requirement
is not arbitrary or oppressive, but reasonable and likely to
be of real effect. Of course, power to require the disclosure includes authority to prevent individual members of an association which has failed to comply from
attending meetings or retaining membership with knowl7Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 77, et seq.; Bradwell v.
Illinois, 16 Wail. 130, 139; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, 133;
Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162; 171; United States v. Cruikshank,
92 U. S. 542, 551-552; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657, 661; In re
Lockwood, 154 U. S. 116, 117.

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

Opinion of the Court.

edge of its default. We conclude that the due process
clause is not violated.
The main contention made under the equal protection
clause is that the statute discriminates against the Knights
of the Ku Klux Klan and other associations in that it excepts from its requirements several associations having
oath-bound membership, such as labor unions, the Masonic fraternity, the Independent Order of Odd Fellows,
the Grand Army of the Republic and the Knights of Columbus-all named in another statute which provides for
their incorporation and requires the names of their officers
as elected from time to time to be reported to the secretary
of state.
The principle to be applied in determining whether a
particular discrimination or classification offends against
the equal protection clause is shown in the following excerpts from some of our decisions:
Patsone v. Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 138, 144-" The discrimination undoubtedly presents a more difficult question. But we start with the general consideration that
a State may classify with reference to the evil to be prevented, and that if the class discriminated against is or
reasonably might be considered to define those from whom
the evil mainly is to be feared, it properly may be picked
out. A lack of abstract symmetry does not matter. The
question is a practical one dependent upon experience.
The demand for symmetry ignores the specific difference
that experience is supposed to have shown to mark the
class. It is not enough to invalidate the law that others
may do the same thing and go unpunished, if, as a matter
of fact, it is found that the danger is characteristic of
the class named. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co.,
220 U. S. 61, 80, 81. The State 'may direct its law
against what it deems the evil as it actually exists without
covering the whole field of possible abuses.' Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 160."

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 383-" The contention
as to the various omissions which are noted in the objections here urged ignores the well-established principle that
the legislature is not bound, in order to support the constitutional validity of its regulation, to extend it to all
cases which it might possibly reach. Dealing with practical exigencies, the legislature may be guided by experience.
Patsone v. Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 138, 144. It is free to
recognize degrees of harm, and it may confine its restrictions to those classes of cases where the need is deemed to
be clearest."
Radice v. New York, 264 U. S.292, 296--" Such classification must not be 'purely arbitrary, oppressive or capricious.' American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179
U. S.89, 92. But the mere production of inequality is not
enough. Every selection of persons for regulation so results, in some degree. The inequality produced, in order
to encounter the challenge of the Constitution, must be
'actually and palpably unreasonable and arbitrary.'
Arkansas Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 261
U. S.379, 384, and cases cited. Thus classifications have
been sustained which are based upon differences between
fire insurance and other kinds of insurance, Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S.557, 562; between railroads
and other corporations, Tullis v. Lake Erie & Western
R. R. Co., 175 U. S.348, 351; between barber shop employment and other kinds of labor, Petit v. Minnesota, 177
U. S. 164, 168; between 'immigrant agents' engaged in
hiring laborers to be employed beyond the limits of a
State and persons engaged in the business of hiring for
labor within the State, Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S.270,
275; betwecn sugar refiners who produce the sugar and
those who purchase it, American Sugar Refining Co. V.
Louisiana,supra."
Quaker City Cab Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 389,
400-" The equal protection clause does not detract from

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

Opinion of the Court.

the right of the State justly to exert its taxing power or
prevent it from adjusting its legislation to differences in
situation or forbid classification in that connection, 'but
it does require that the classification be not arbitrary but
based on a real and substantial difference having a reasonable relation to the subject of the particular legislation.'
Power Co. v. Saunders, 274 U. S. 490, 493."
The courts below recognized the principle shown in the
cases just cited and reached the conclusion that the classification was justified by a difference between the two
classes of associations shown by experience, and that the
difference consisted (a) in a manifest tendency on the part
of one class to make the secrecy surrounding its purposes
and membership a cloak for acts and conduct inimical to
personal rights and public welfare, and (b) in the absence
of such a tendency on the part of the other class. In
pointing out this difference one of the courts said of the
Ku Klux Klan, the principal association in the included
class: " It is a matter of common knowledge that this organization functions largely at night, its members disguised by hoods and gowns and doing things calculated
to strike terror into the minds of the people "; and later
said .of the other class: "These organizations and their
purposes are well known, many of them having been in
existence for many years. Many of them are oath-bound
and secret. But we hear no complaints against them regarding violation of the peace or interfering with the rights
of others." Another of the courts said: " It is a matter
of common knowledge that the association or organization of which the relator is concededly a member exercises
activities tending to the prejudice and intimidation of
sundry classes of our citizens. But the legislation is not
confined to this society "; and later said of the other class,
"Labor unions have a recognized lawful purpose. The
benevolent orders mentioned in the Benevolent Orders
Law have already received legislative scrutiny and been

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U.S.

grahted special privileges so that the legislature may well
consider them beneficial rather than harmful agencies."
The third court after recognizing "the potentialities of
evil in secret societies" and observing that "the danger of
certain organizations has been judicially demonstrated "meaning in that State,-said: "Benevolent orders, labor
unions and college fraternities have existed for many
years, and, while not immune from hostile criticism, have
on the whole justified their existence."
We assume that the legislature had before it such information as was readily available, including the published report of a hearing before a committee of the House
of Representatives of the 57th Congress relating to the
formation, purposes and activities of the Ku Klux Klan.8
If so, it was advised-putting aside controverted evidence-that the order was a revival of the Ku Klux Klan
of an earlier time with additional features borrowed from
the Know Nothing and the A. P. A. orders of other
periods; that its membership was limited to native born,
gentile, protestant whites; that in part of its constitution
and printed creed it proclaimed the widest freedom for
all and full adherence to the Constitution of the United
States, in another exacted of its members an oath to
shield and preserve "white supremacy," and in still
another declared any person actively opposing its principles to be "a dangerous ingredient in the body politic
of our country and an enemy to the weal of our national
commonwealth "; that it was conducting a crusade
against Catholics, Jews and Negroes and stimulating
hurtful religious and race prejudices; that it was striving
for political power and assuming a sort of guardianship
over the administration of local, state and national af-

8House Committee Hearings, 1921, Vol. 302. See also, The Challenge of the Klan, by Stanley Frost; The Ku Klux Klan, by John M.
Mecklin.

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

fairs; and that at times it was taking into its own hands
the punishment of what some of its members conceived
to be crimes.
We think it plain that the action of the courts below
in holding that there was a real and substantial basis for
the distinction made between the two sets of associations
or orders was right and should not be disturbed.
Criticism is made of the classification on the further
ground that the regulation is confined to associations
having a membership of twenty or more persons. Classification based on numbers is not necessarily unreasonable.
There are many instances in which it has been sustained.
We think it not unreasonable in this instance. With
good reason the legislature may have thought that an
association of less than twenty persons would have only
a negligible influence and be without the capacity for
harm that would make regulation needful.
We conclude that all the objections urged against the
statute are untenable as held by the courts below.
Judgment affirmed.
Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.
For two reasons, I think we have no jurisdiction of this
writ of error and that it should be dismissed.
The cause was finally determined by the Court of Appeals of New York, January 12, 1926. The record fails
to disclose that any federal question was presented to or
considered by that court. Moreover, the real controversy
between the parties involves no substantial federal question.
The petition for habeas corpus-presented to the Supreme Court-affirmed that plaintiff in error was confined in the Buffalo jail under pretense that he had "violated Chapter 664 of the Laws of 1923, which law is commonly known as the Walker Law, and which law is see-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

278 U. S.

tions 53, 54, 55 and 56 of Article V-A of the Civil Rights
Law." These sections are printed below.* It then alleged "that said imprisonment and restraint is illegal in
this, to-wit: That the Magistrate was without jurisdiction tp issue the warrant, or cause his arrest, inasmuch as
chapter 664 of the Laws of 1923, is unconstitutional and
void and of no force or effect." And upon that ground
alone it sought the petitioner's release. The petition did
not refer to the Federal Constitution or any statute of
the United States.
The warrant for plaintiff in error's arrest was based
upon an information which, in the language of the Court
of Appeals, charged "that he attended a meeting of and
remained a member of Buffalo Provisional Klan of the
Knights of the Ku Klux Klan with knowledge that said
"Section

53. Copies of documents and statements to be filed.

Every existing membership corporation, and every existing unincorporated association having a membership of twenty or more persons,
which corporation or association requires an oath as a prerequisite or
condition of membership, other than a labor union or a benevolent
order mentioned in the benevolent orders law, within thirty days after
this article takes effect, and every such corporation or association
hereafter organized, within ten days after the adoption thereof, shall
file with the secretary of state a sworn copy of its constitution,
by-laws, rules, regulations and oath of membership together with a
roster of its membership and a list of its officers for the current year.
Every such corporation and association shall, in case its constitution,
by-laws, rules, regulations or oath of membership or any part thereof,
be revised, changed or amended, within ten days after such revision
or amendment file with the secretary of state a sworn copy of such
revised, changed or amended constitution, by-law, rule, regulation or
oath of membership. Every such corporation or association shall
within thirty days after a change has been made in its officers file
with the secretary of state a sworn statemeht showing such change.
Every such corporation or association shall at intervals of six months
file with the secretary of state a sworn statement showing the names
and addresses of such additional members as have been received in
such corporation or association during such interval.
"Section 54. Resolutions Concerning Political Matters.-Every such
corporation or association shall, within ten days after the adoption

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

MCREYNOLDS, J.,

dissenting.

association, which has more than twenty members, requires an oath as a prerequisite or condition of membership, and is not a labor union or a benevolent order mentioned in the Benevolent Orders Law (Cons. Laws, ch.
3) had not complied with the provisions of the statute
by filing with the Secretary of State a sworn copy of its
constitution, by-laws, rules, regulations and oath of membership, together with a roster of its membership and a
list of its officers for the current year." The writ of
habeas corpus followed the usual form; the record contains no return thereto.
Upon an affidavit that the constitutionality of Chapter
664, Act of 1923, had been challenged, the Supreme Court
permitted the Attorney-General to intervene.
thereof, file in the office of the secretary of state every resolution, or
the minutes of any action of such corporation or association, providing for concerted action of its members or of a part thereof to
promote or defeat legislation, federal, state or municipal, or to
support or to defeat any candidate for political office.
"Section 55. Anonymous Communications Prohibited.-It shall be
unlawful for any such corporation or association to send, deliver, mail

or transmit to any person in this state who is not a member of such
corporation or association any anonymous letter, document, leaflet or
other written or printed matter, and all such letters, documents,
leaflets or other written or printed matter, intended for a person not
a member of such corporation or association, shall bear on the same
the name of such corporation or association and the names of the
officers thereof together with the addresses of the latter.
"Section 56. Offenses; Penalties.-Any corporation or association
violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than one thousand dollars nor more
than ten thousand dollars. Any officer of such corporation or association and every member of the board of directors, trustees or other
similar body, who violates any provision of this article or permits or
acquiesces in the violation of any provision of this article by any such
corporation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who becomes a member of any such corporation or association, or remains
a member thereof, or attends a meeting thereof, with knowledge that
such corporation or association has failed to comply with any provision of this article, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor."

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

278 U. S.

The cause was heard by the Supreme Court upon the
petition, information, warrant, writ of habeas corpus, and
argument of counsel. No other evidence was introduced.
There is nothing to show that the association to which
plaintiff in error belonged had any connection whatever
with the Ku Klux Klan of the last century; nothing to
show its purpose, or the nature of the oath taken by
members.
The Supreme Court discharged the writ, but neither its
judgment nor the accompanying opinion mentions the
Federal Constitution or any statute of the United States.
Without supporting evidence, that Court said: "It may
be assumed that the legislature informed itself of conditions bearing upon the proposed legislation. These conditions probably are not such as would enable the Court
to take judicial notice of them, but the legislature could
well have learned of the acts of the Klan. It is a matter
of common knowledge that this organization functions
largely at night, its members disguised by hoods and
gowns and doing things calculated to strike terror into the
minds of the people. It is claimed that they are organized against certain of the citizens by reason of race or
religion."
Thereupon the cause was appealed to the Appellate
Division without any assignment of errors and that Court
affirmed the order discharging the writ. The opinion
there contains the following language"The facts are not in dispute. Relator sued out a
writ of habeas corpus upon the theory that the statute
in question is unconstitutional and that is the only question to be determined. . ..
"Relator complains that the exemption in said statute
of labor unions and the benevolent orders mentioned in
the Benevolent Orders Law is an unlawful classification
in violation of Sec. 6 of Article 1, of the Constitution of

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

the State of New York, which provides among other
things that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or
property without due process of law, and of Sec. 1 of the
14th Amendment of the Federal Constitution, which provides that no state shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States, and that no state shall deprive any
citizen of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of law, and that no state shall deny. to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law ...
" It is a matter of common knowledge that the association or organization of which relator is concededly a
member exercises activities tending to the prejudice and
intimidation of sundry classes of our citizens. ..."
The foregoing is the only direct reference to Federal
Constitution or laws disclosed by the record.
Finally, the cause went by appeal and without assignment of error to the Court of Appeals of New York.
That court affirmed the order of the Appellate Division
and delivered a supporting opinion which does not mention the Federal Constitution, or any statute of the
United States. Certainly it cannot be said that the record affirmatively discloses that any federal question was
raised or considered in the Court of Appeals.
In Crowell v. Randell (1836), 10 Peters 368, 392, upon
motion to dismiss the writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Delaware for want of jurisdiction, Mr. Justice Story,
in behalf of the Court, said" In the interpretation of this section [25] of the act
of 1789, it has been uniformly held, that to give this court
appellate jurisdiction two things should have occurred
and be apparent in the record: first, that some one of
the questions stated in the section did arise in the court
below; and secondly, that a decision was actually made
thereon by the same court, in the manner required by
2T2,28°-29-----6

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
McREYNOLDS, J.,

dissenting.

278 U. S.

the section. If both of these do not appear on the record, the appellate jurisdiction fails. It is not sufficient
to show that such a question might have occurred, or such
a decision might have been made in the court below.
It must be demonstrable that they did exist, and were
made. The principal, perhaps the only important, difficulty which has ever been felt by the court, has been in
ascertaining in particular cases whether these matters
(the question and decision) were apparent on the record.
And here the doctrine of the court has been, that it is not
indispensable that it should appear on the record, inb
totiden verbis, or by direct and positive statement, that
the question was made and the decision given by the
court below on the very point; but that it is sufficient,
if it is clear, from the facts stated, by just and necessary
inference, that the question was made, and that the court
below must, in order to have arrived at the judgment
pronounced by it, have come to the very decision of that
question as indispensable to that judgment."
The language of the Act of February 25, 1925, and of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, presently important, is substantially the same.
In Michigan Sugar Company v. Michigan, 185 U. S.
112, 113, by Chief Justice Fuller, this Court said"The Supreme Court of the State did not refer to the
Federal Constitution or consider and decide any Federal
question. For aught that appears, the court proceeded
in its determination of the cause without any thought
that it was disposing of such a question.
"The rule is firmly established, and has been frequently
reiterated, that the jurisdiction of this court to re-examine
the final judgment of a state court, under the third division of section 709, cannot arise from mere inference, but
only from averments so distinct and positive as to place

BRYANT v. ZIMMERMAN.
63

MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

it beyond question that the party bringing the case here
from such court intended to assert a Federal right. The
statutory requirement is not met unless the party unmistakably declares that he invokes for the protection of his
rights, the Constitution, or some treaty, statute, commission or authority, of the United States. Applying this
rule to the case before us, the-writ of error cannot be
maintained."
In Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 360, we held"It has long been settled that this Court acquires no
jurisdiction to review the judgment of a state court of
last resort on a writ of error, unless it affirmatively appears on the face of the record that a federal question
constituting an appropriate ground for such review was
presented in and expressly or necessarily decided by such
state court."
Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368, 392; Railroad Co. v.
Rock, 4 Wall. 177, 180; CaliforniaPowder Works v. Davis,
151 U. S. 389, 393; Cincinnati,etc. Railuay v. Slade, 216
U. S.78, 83; Hiawassee Power Co. v. Carolina-Tenn. Co.,
252 U. S.341, 343; New York v. Kleinert, .268 U. S.646,
650, were cited. See also Mellon v. O'Neil, 275 U. S.212,
214; Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193, 199; Keokuk
& Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175, U. S. 626, 634.
It is not enough that the opinion of the Appellate Division referred to the Constitution of the United States.
To give us jurisdiction the record must show affirmatively
that the federal question was before the Court of Appeals. Mere inference will not do. This rule has been
rigidly enforced for a hundred years.
The function of a writ of habeas corpus is to test the
validity of challenged imprisonment-not the guilt or
innocence of the prisoner. And over and over again this
Court has asserted that it will not permit habeas corpus
to perform the office of a writ of error.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
M REYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

278 U. S.

It must now be accepted as settled doctrine in this
Court that one is not deprived of any federal right merely
by being put on trial for violating a state statute which
conflicts with the Federal Constitution. Nor is one deprived of his federal right solely because he may be imprisoned after conviction of violating a state statute
admittedly in conflict with the Federal Constitution.
It follows that when the petition for habeas corpus
alleged that plaintiff in error was imprisoned under a
charge of violating a state statute said to be unconstitutional and void, no real federal question was raised. The
legality of his imprisonment did not depend at all upon
the validity of the act which it was said he had violated.
His right was to an orderly hearing upon the charge, with
the privilege of ultimate review here. And as the habeas
corpus proceeding never involved any substantial question arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, we have no jurisdiction to review it.
Undoubtedly, cases like this have been entertained here
in the past. But, since it has become settled law that
mere imprisonment and trial under a charge based upon
an unconstitutional state statute does not deprive one of
his liberty without due process of law, we should deny
further jurisdiction. There is no longer any controverted
federal question essential to decision of the cause.
This view is aided by consideration of the serious and
manifest evil which will follow a different course. Certainly, we should not undertake to determine the validity
of a state statute in advance of trial upon the merits
simply because some prisoner sees fit to sue out a writ of
habeas corpus upon the alleged ground of conflict between
the statute and Federal Constitution.

