UNITED STATES v. WILLIAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. WILLIAMS.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 104.

Argued December 7, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

The Director of the Veterans Bureau has exclusive authority to pass
upon all claims for payment of adjusted compensation certificates
and his decision is final, unless wholly without evidential support
or wholly dependent upon a question of law, or clearly arbitrary
or capricious. P. 257.
23 F. (2d) 792, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

277 U. S. 580, to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court dismissing, for want of jurisdiction, a claim
against the Government on an adjusted compensation
certificate.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. W. Clifton Stone, Wm. Wolff Smith, General Counsel, U. S.
Veterans Bureau, and James T. Brady were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. Wm. Kaufman submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action brought in the federal District Court
for the Western District of Pennsylvania to recover upon
an adjusted service certificate issued, through the Veterans' Bureau to respondent's husband, under the provisions of the Adjusted Compensation Act, c. 157, 43 Stat.
121, as amended by the act of July 3, 1926, c. 751, 44 Stat.
826. Respondent's petition alleges the issue of the certificate, the death of the veteran, the interest of respond-'
ent as beneficiary, the filing of proof of her claim with the
Director, and a failure and refusal of the Director to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

payment after demand upon him. A demurrer to the petition was sustained by the district court upon the ground
that the case involved a pension claim, in respect of which
the courts were expressly denied jurisdiction. The circuit court of appeals held otherwise, and sustained the
jurisdiction of the district court on the ground that the
certificate embodied an express obligation of the United
States. 23 F. (2d) 792. We do not find it necessary to
determine whether this view or that of the district court is
correct, but dispose of the case upon a ground urged here
by the government, but apparently, it is fair to say, not
suggested to either court below.
The general administration of the Adjusted Compensation Act is committed to the Director of the Bureau.
Under the terms of the original act, the certificate is to
be issued by that officer upon certification from the Secretary of War or the Secretary of the Navy. § .501. Application first must be made to the Secretary of War or the
Secretary of the Navy, as the case may be, who is authorized to transmit the same together with a certificate setting forth, among other things, the amount of the adjusted
service credit. §§ 302 (a), 303 (a), as amended. From
a consideration of the whole act it is clear that these officers must pass upon the facts which it is claimed justify
the issue of such certificates. Section 310 of the amended
act, hereafter quoted, makes it equally clear that their decisions upon these facts are final and conclusive. Section
502 authorizes a bank loan upon the security of an adjusted service certificate. If the loan be not paid at maturity, the note and certificate must be presented to the
Director, who in his discretion may pay the claim and
adjust the remaining balance with the veteran or his beneficiary. A fund is created in the Treasury of the United
States and made available to the Director for payment of
adjusted service certificates upon their maturity or the

UNITED STATES v. WILLIAMS.
255

Opinion of the Court.

prior death of the veterans to whom issued, and for payments to banks on account of loans made under § 502.
§§ 505-507. Before any certificate can be paid it must, of
course, be presented to the Director, who, necessarily,
must first decide all relevant matters in respect of the
right of the claimant to receive payment.
It is not necessary to go further into particulars. A
review of the entire act and the amendments shows, we
think, that all questions relating to the right of any person
to a certificate, the amount of it, etc., and payments to be
made under its terms before or at maturity, are to be de-termined by the appropriate executive officer as a basis
for his action. The effect of ,the executive determination,
if that were otherwise doubtful, is set at rest by the provisions of § 310 of the amended act, which reads:
"The decisions of the Secretary of War, the Secretary
of the Navy, and the Director, on all matters within their
respective jurisdictions under the provisions of this Act
(except the duties vested in them by Title VII) shall be
final and conclusive."
Under the provisions of the act, and in the light of the
section just quoted, we are of opinion that exclusive
authority is vested in the Director of the Bureau to entertain and pass upon all claims for payment of these
certificates. It is evident that when a certificate is presented to the Director by one claiming to be the beneficiary that officer must, as a necessary prerequisite to the
payment, ascertain and determine that the veteran is dead,
that the person claiming payment is in fact the beneficiary, and any other matter of fact or law which may
affect the right of the claimant in any given case. We
may assume that the Director performed that duty here.
The record does not disclose the basis for his action; but
whatever it may have been, his decision is final, at least
unless it be wholly without evidential support or wholly
27228-29-

17

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

dependent upon a question of law or clearly arbitrary or
capricious. Silberschein v. United States, 266 U. S. 221,
225, and cases there cited.
For these reasons the judgment of the circuit court of
appeals must be reversed and that of the district court
dismissing the petition affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MISSOURI-KANSAS-TEXAS RAILROAD COMPANY v. MARS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 88.

Submitted November 28; 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

A state law (Texas, 1925 Revision, Art. 6422) providing that the
property and franchises of a railroad when sold within the State
and acquired for operation by a new company shall be subject
to a lien for the satisfaction of claims for loss of property sustained
in the operation of the railroad by the old company, held not in
conflict with § 20a of the Interstate Commerce Act, which relates exclusively to securities. P. 260.
298 S .W. 271, affirmed.
ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Texas which
reversed the Court of Civil Appeals, 294 S. W. 941, in a
suit to foreclose a lien on railroad properties acquired by
the plaintiff in error after a receiver's sale.

Messrs. Fred L. Wallace, Charles C. Huff, and Joseph
H. Barwise submitted for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. James A. Templeton and Robert L. Carlock
submitted for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

The predecessor of plaintiff in error was the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway Company of Texas. In 1915,
its properties were placed in the hands of a receiver ap-

