LIGGETT CO. v. BALDRIDGE.
101

Syllabus.

Ohio, 12 F. (2d) 789, 790; Connecting Gas Co. v. Imes,
11 F. (2d) 191, 194-195. The second requisite here is
lacking.
Our attention is directed to several cases disposed of
under § 266, where this Court passed on the merits although the suits were against local officers. We do not
stop to inquire whether, at least in some of these cases,
the so-called local officers in fact represented the state
or exercised state functions in the matters involved and
properly might be held to come within the provision of
§ 266 now under review. Compare, for example, People
ex rel. Plancon v. Prendergast,219 N. Y. 252, 258; State
ex rel. Lopas v. Shagren, 91 Wash. 48, 52; Griffin v.
Rhoton, 85 Ark. 89, 93-94; Fellows v. Mayor, 8 Hun. 484,
485-488; Chickasha Cotton Oil Co. v. Lamb & Tyner, 28
Okla. 275, 286. It is enough to say, as was said in the
Collins case, that the propriety of the hearing before three
judges was not considered in the cases to which we are
referred; and they cannot be regarded as having decided
the question. Webster v. Fall, 266 U. S. 507, 511; United
States v. Mitchell, 271 U. S. 9, 14.
Rule discharged.
LOUIS K. LIGGETT COMPANY v. BALDRIDGE,
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF PENNSYLVANIA,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 34. Argued October 8, 1928.-Decided November 19, 1928.
1. The business of a foreign corporation is property, and the corporation a "person," within the meaning of the due process and equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 111.
2. A foreign corporation may not be subjected to statutes that are
in conflict with the Federal Constitution by a State in which it has
been permitted to do business. Id.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellees.

278 U. S.

3. A state statute forbidding any corporation to own a pharmacy or
drug store in addition to those owned at the time of the enactment,
unless all of its stockholders are licensed pharmacists, violates the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as applied to a
foreign corporation which owned such stores under license of the
State, and sought to extend its business by acquiring and operating
others. P. 111.
4. Mere stock ownership in a corporation owning and operating a
drug store, can have no real or substantial relation to the public
health. P. 113.
5. That the stock of corporations owning and operating chain drug
stores is bought and sold on the stock exchanges and must be
largely held by persons who are not registered pharmacists, are
facts that may be judicially noticed. Id.
22 F. (2d) 993, reversed.

from a decree of the District Court, composed
of three judges, dismissing the bill whereby appellant
drug store company sought to enjoin the Attorney General and other officers of Pennsylvania, from prosecuting
it under an act regulating the ownership of drug-stores.
The court had previously denied an application for a
preliminary injunction.
APPEAL

Messrs. Owen J. Roberts and Roy M. Sterne, with whom
Mr. George C. Chandler was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Paul C. Wagner, Deputy Attorney General of
Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Thomas J. Baldridge,
Attorney General, was on th'e brief, for appellees.
The action of the Legislature in passing the statute is
of great weight as indicating the necessity for the enactment. Graves v. Minnesota., 272 U. S. 425.
The Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County
has held the Act constitutional, and the case is on appeal
to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.
A similar Act of New York was upheld in Tucker v.
N. Y. State Board of Pharmacy, 217 N. Y. S. 217.
The importance of assuring the proper enforcement of
the laws governing the distribution of narcotics and liquors

LIGGETT CO. v. BALDRIDGE.
105

Argument for Appellees.

by pharmacies, is evident. The statutory regulations in
Pennsylvania, prior to May 13, 1927, were inadequate.
The connection between the regulation of a profession
and the ownership of the business conducted in the practice of the profession has been recognized in the practice
of both law and medicine. Legislatures and courts have
realized that ownership carries with it a responsibility
which does much to insure the proper practice of a profession when ownership is restricted to those qualified to
practice. Practically all the States have found it necessary to prohibit corporations from entering the professions by employing lawyers or doctors to act for them.
People v. Title Guaranty & Trust Co., 227 N. Y. 366;
Re Co6perativeLaw Co., 198 N. Y. 479; Harmon v. SiegelCooper Co., 167 N. Y. 244; People v. Dermatological Institute, 192 N. Y. 454; World's Dispensary Medical Ass'n
v. Prince, 203 N. Y. 419; People v. Merchants' Protective
Corp'n, 189 Cal. 531; People v. California Protective
Ass'n, 76 Cal. App. 354; New Jersey Co. v. Schonert &
Son, 95 N. J. Eq. 12; Hodgen v. Commonwealth, 142
Ky. 722.
In these cases, the elements of responsibility and control are emphasized as the result of requiring not only
that the person who practices a profession shall be duly
licensed and regulated, but that the owner of the business
resulting from the professional practice shall likewise be
a licensed practitioner.
The Act of May 13, 1927, does not deny to appellant
the equal protection of the Law. Sperry & Hutchinson
Co. v. Rhodes, 220 U. S. 502; Dent v. West Virginia, 129
U. S. 114; People v. Griswold, 213 N. Y. 92; State v.
Creditor, 44 Kan. 565; Ex parte Whitley, 144 Cal. 167;
Hodgen v. Commonwealth, 142 Ky. 722.
The regulation of a profession involves principles different from those applicable to the regulation of an ordinary trade or occupation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U.S.

Mr. Sol M. Stroock, as amicus curiae, filed a brief on
behalf of the Whelan Drug Company, by special leave
of Court.
Messrs. Charles H. Sachs and Louis Caplan, as amici
curiae, filed a brief on behalf of the May Drug Company, by special leave of Court.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This appeal brings here for consideration a challenge
to the constitutionality of an act of the Pennsylvania
legislature approved May 13, 1927, Penna. Stats., Supp.
1928, § 9377a-1, 9377a-2, a copy of which will be found
in the margin.* The act provides that every pharmacy
or drug store shall be owned only by a licensed pharmacist, and, in the case of corporations, associations and co* "Section 1. Every pharmacy or drug store shall be owned only
by a licensed pharmacist, and no corporation, association, or copartnership shall own a pharmacy or drug store, unless all the partners or
members thereof are licensed pharmacists; except that any corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth
or of any other state of the United States, and authorized to do
business in the Commonwealth, and empowered by its charter to own
and conduct pharmacies or drug stores, and any association or copartnership which, at the time of the passage of this act, still owns
and conducts a registered pharmacy or pharmacies or a drug store or
drug stores in the Commonwealth, may continue to own and conduct
the same; but no other or additional pharmacies or drug stores shall
be established, owned, or conducted by such corporation, association,
or copartnership, unless all the members or partners thereof are registered pharmacists; but any such corporation, association, or copartnership, which shall not continue to own at least one of the pharmacies or drug stores theretofore owned by it, or ceases to be actively
engaged in the-conduct of a pharmacy, shall not be permitted thereafter to own a,pharmacy or a drug store, unless all of its partners or
members are registered pharmacists; and except that any person,
not a licensed pharmacist, who, at the time of the passage of this

LIGGETT CO. v. BALDRIDGE.
105

Opinion of the Court.

partnerships, requires that all the partners or members
thereof shall be licensed pharmacists, with the exception
that such corporations as are already organized and existing and duly authorized and empowered to do business
in the state and own and conduct drug stores or pharmacies, and associations and partnerships, which, at the
time of the passage of the act, still own and conduct
drug stores or pharmacies, may continue to own and conduct the same.
The appellant is a Massachusetts corporation authorized to do business in Pennsylvania. At the time of the
passage of the act, appellant was empowered to own and
conduct and owned and thereafter continued to own and
operate a number of pharmacies or drug stores at various
places within the latter state. After the passage of the
act, appellant purchased and took possession of two addiact, owns a pharmacy or a drug store in the Commonwealth, may
continue to own and conduct the same, but shall not establish or own
any additional pharmacy or drug store, or if he or she ceases to
operate such pharmacy or drug store, shall not thereafter own a
pharmacy or drug store, unless he or she be a registered pharmacist;
and except that the administrator, executor, or trustee of the estate
of any deceased owner of a registered pharmacy or drug store, may
continue to own and conduct such pharmacy or drug store during the
period necessary for the settlement of the estate: Provided, That
nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent or affect the
ownership, by other than a registered pharmacist, of a store or stores
wherein the sale or manufacture of drugs or medicines is limited to
proprietary medicines and commonly used household drugs, provided
such commonly used household drugs are offered for sale or sold in
packages which have been put up ready for sale to consumers by
pharmacists, manufacturing pharmacists, wholesale grocers, or wholesale druggists.
"Section 2. Any person, copartnership, or corporation, violating the
provisions of this act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
one hundred dollars. Each day any such pharmacy is owned contrary
to the provisions of this act shall be considered a separate offense."

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

tional drug stores in that state and carried on and continues and intends to continue to carry on a retail drug
business therein under the title of " drug store" or "pharmacy," including the compounding, dispensing, preparation and sale at retail of drugs, medicines, etc. The business was and is carried on through pharmacists employed
by appellant and duly registered in accordance with the
statutes of the state. All of the members [stockholders]
of the appellant corporation are not registered pharmacists, and, in accordance with the provisions of the act,
the Pennsylvania State Board of Pharmacy has refused
to grant appellant a permit to carry on the business. It
further appears that the state Attorney General and the
District Attorney of the proper county have threatened
and intend to and will prosecute appellant for its violation of the act, the penalties for which are severe and
cumulative. Suit was brought to enjoin these officers
from putting into effect their threats, upon the ground
that the act in question contravenes the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is clear from the pleadings and the record, and it is
conceded, that if the act be unconstitutional as claimed,
appellant is entitled to the relief prayed. Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 215; Ex parte Young, 209 U.
S. 123.
The court below, composed of three judges, heard the
case upon the pleadings, affidavits and an agreed statement of facts, and rendered a decree denying a preliminary
injunction and, upon the agreed submission of the case,
a final decree dismissing the bill for want of equity. 22 F.
(2d) 993. The statute was held constitutional upon the
ground that there was a substantial relation to the public interest in the ownership of a drug store where prescriptions were compounded. In support of this conclusion, the court said that medicines must be in the store
before they can be dispensed; that what is there is dic-.

LIGGETT CO. v. BALDRIDGE.
105

Opinion of the Court.

tated not by the judgment of the pharmacist but by those
who have the financial control of the business; that the
legislature may have thought that a corporate owner in
purchasing drugs might give greater regard to price than
to quality, and that if such was the thought of the legislature the court would not undertake to say that it was
without a valid connection with the public interest and so
unreasonable as to render the statute invalid.
That appellant's business is a property right, Duplex Co.
v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 465; Truax v. Corrigan, 257
U. S. 312, 327, and as such entitled to protection against
state legislation in contravention bf the federal Constitution, is, of course, clear. That a corporation is a "person" within the meaning of the due process and equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, and
that a foreign corporation permitted to do business in a
state may not be subjected to state statutes in conflict with
the federal Constitution, is equally well settled. Kentucky Co. v. ParamountExch., 262 U. S. 544, 550; Power
Co. v. Saunders, 274 U. S. 490, 493, 496-497; Frost Trucking Co. v. R. R. Comm'n, 271 U. S. 583, 594 et seq. And,
unless justified as a valid exercise of the police power, the
act assailed must be declared unconstitutional because the
enforcement thereof will deprive appellant of its property
without due process of law.
The act is sought to be sustained specifically upon the
ground that it is reasonably calculated to promote the
public health; and the determination we are called upon
to make is whether the act has a real and substantial relation to that end or is a clear and arbitrary invasion of appellant's property rights guaranteed by the Constitution.
See Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, 173-174; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661. The police power may
be exerted in the form of state legislation where otherwise the effect may be to invade rights guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment only when such legislation bears

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

a real and substantial relation to the public health, safety,
morals, or some other phase of the general welfare. Here
the pertinent question is: What is the effect of mere
ownership of a drug store in respect of the public health?
A state undoubtedly may regulate the prescription,
compounding of prescriptions, purchase and sale of medicines, by appropriate legislation to the extent reasonably
necessary to protect the public health. And this the
Pennsylvania legislature sought to do by various statutory
provisions in force long before the enactment of the
statute under review. Briefly stated, these provisions are:
No one but a licensed- physician may practice medicine
or prescribe remedies for sickness; I no one but a registered pharmacist lawfully may have charge of a drug
store; 2 every drug store must itself be registered, and this
can only be done where the management is in charge of
a registered pharmacist; 3 stringent provision is made to
prevent the possession or sale of any impure drug or any
below the standard, strength, quality and purity as determined by the recognized pharmacopoeia of the United
States; ' none but a registered pharmacist is permitted to
compound physician's prescriptions; 1 and, finally, the
supervision of the foregoing matters and the enforcement
of the laws in respect thereof are in the hands of the
state Board of Pharmacy, which is given broad powers
for these purposes.
It, therefore, will be seen that without violating laws,
the validity of which is conceded, the owner of a drug
store, whether a registered pharmacist or not, cannot purchase or dispense impure or inferior medicines; he cannot,
1Pa.
2Pa.
8 Pa.
4 Pa.

St.
St.
St.
St.
5 Pa. St.

1920, § 16779.
1920, §§ 9323, 9327.
Supp. 1928, § 9329a-2.
1920, § 9337; Pa. St. Supp. 1928, § 9339.
1920, §§ 9317, 9323.

LIGGETT CO. v. BALDRIDGE.

113

Opinion of the Court.

105

unless he be a licensed physician, prescribe for the sick;
he cannot, unless he be a registered pharmacist, have
charge of a drug store or compound a prescription. Thus,
it would seem, every point at which the public health is
likely to be injuriously affected by the act of the owner
in buying, compounding, or selling drugs and medicines
is amply safeguarded.
The act under review does not deal with any of the
things covered by the prior statutes above enumerated.
It deals in terms*only with ownership. It plainly forbids
the exercise of an ordinary property right and, on its face,

denies what the Constitution guarantees. A state cannot, "under the guise of protecting the public, arbitrarily
interfere with private business or prohibit lawful occupations or impose unreasonable and unnecessary restrictions
upon them." Burns Baking Co. v. Bryan, 264 U. S. 504,
513. See also Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390, 399-400;
Norfolk Ry. v. Public Service Comm'n, 265 U. S. 70, 74;
Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510, 534-535;
Weaver v. PalmerBros. Co., 270 U. S. 402, 412-415; Fairmont Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U. S. 1, 9-11.
In the light of the various requirements of the Pennsylvania statutes, it is made clear, if it were otherwise
doubtful, that mere stock ownership in a corporation,
owning and operating a drug store, can have no real or
substantial relation to the public health; and that the act
in question creates an unreasonable and unnecessary restriction upon private business. No facts are presented
by the record, and, so far as appears, none were presented
to the legislature which enacted the statute, that properly
could give rise to a different conclusion. It is a matter
of public notoriety that chain drug stores in great numbers, owned and operated by corporations, are to be found
throughout the United States. They have been in operation for many years. We take judicial notice of the fact
27228°-29-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

278 U. S.

that the stock in these corporations is bought and sold
upon the various stock exchanges of the country and, in
the nature of things, must be held and owned to a large
extent by persons who are not registered pharmacists.
If detriment to the public health thereby has resulted or
is threatened, some evidence of it ought to be forthcoming. None has been produced, and, so far as we are informed, either by the record or outside of it, none exists.
The claim, that mere ownership of a drug store by one
not a pharmacist bears a reasonable relation to the public
health, finally rests upon conjecture, unsupported by anything of substance. This is not enough; and it becomes
our duty to declare the act assailed to be unconstitutional
as in contravention of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Decree reversed.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.
A standing criticism of the use of corporations in business is that it causes such business to be owned by people
who do not know anything about it. Argument has not
been supposed to be necessary in order to show that the
divorce between the power of control and knowledge is
an evil. The selling of drugs and poisons calls for knowledge in a high degree, and Pennsylvania after enacting
a series of other safeguards has provided that in that matter the divorce shall not be allowed. Of course, notwithstanding the requirement that in corporations hereafter
formed all the stockholders shall be licensed pharmacists,
it still would be possible for a stockholder to content
himself with drawing dividends and to take no hand in
the company's affairs. But obviously he would be more
likely to observe the business with an intelligent eye than
a casual investor who looked only to the standing of the

LIGGETT CO. v. BALDRIDGE.
105

HOLmES, J., dissenting.

stock in the market. The Constitution does not make it
a condition of preventive legislation that it should work
a perfect cure. It is enough if the questioned act has a
manifest tendency to cure or at least to make the evil
less. It has been recognized by the professions, by statutes and by decisions that a corporation offering professional services is not placed beyond legislative control
by the fact that all the services in question are rendered
by qualified members of the profession. See People v.
Title Guarantee & Trust Co., 227 N. Y. 366; Tucker v.
New York State Board of Pharmacy, 217 N. Y. Supp.
217, 220. Matter of Co-operative Law Co., 198 N. Y.
479. People v. Merchants Protective Corporation, 189
Cal. 531. New Jersey Photo Engraving Co. v. Carl
Schonert & Sons, 95 N. J. Eq. 12. Hodgen v. Commonwealth, 142 Ky. 722.
But for decisions to which I bow I should not think
any conciliatory phrase necessary to justify what seems
to me one of the incidents of legislative power. I think
however that the police power as that term has been defined and explained clearly extends to a law like this,
whatever I may think of its wisdom, and that the decree
should be affirmed.
Of course the appellant cannot complain of the exception in its favor that allows it to continue to own and
conduct the drug stores that it now owns. The Fourteenth Amendment does not forbid statutes and statutory
changes to have a beginning and thus to discriminate between the rights of an earlier and those of a later time.
Sperry & Hutchinson Co. v. Rhodes, 220 U. S. 502, 505.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS joins in this opinion.

