RICE & ADAMS v. LATHROP.
503

Syllabus.

seems to be controlled in Minnesota; and the earnings
from that source comparatively are very great, suggesting
at least the probability of a special use value of the Minnesota part of the line. It is competent for the state to impose a tax upon the property of the company within the
state and for that purpose to measure the value of such
property in the way here provided. We find nothing in
the record to indicate that the tax under consideration,
plus that already collected, exceeds " what would be legitimate as an ordinary tax on the property valued as part of
a going concern, [or is] relatively higher than the taxes on
other kinds of property." Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261
U. S. 330, 339.
Under these circumstances, upon principles established
by numerous decisions of this Court, the tax is not open to
challenge as an exaction in violation of the federal Constitution. PullmanCo. v. Richardson,supra,pp. 338-339;
U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, 345; Cudahy
Packing Co. v. Minnesota, supra, pp. 453-455, and cases
cited..
Judgment affirmed.
RICE & ADAMS CORPORATION v. LATHROP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 155.

Argued January 11, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

In a suit to enjoin infringement of a patent and for an aecounting and
damages, begun within a short time before the patent is to expire,
the jurisdiction of the District Court to adjudicate the claim for
monetary relief as a court of equity will not be divested by a
denial of a preliminary injunction if the case be such that the
court properly might either grant or refuse such injunction in the
exercise of its discretion. P. 512.
24 F. (2d) 1021, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 585, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a decree adjudging a patent

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

valid and infringed and referring the cause for determination of profits and damages. A preliminary injunction
was denied by the District Court and the patent expired
thereafter pending the suit. That court declined to
transfer to the law docket. See 6 F. (2d) 91; 21 F. (2d)
124.
Messrs. Charles J. Staples, Win. P. Conely, Frederick
G. Mitchell, and Wm. D. Cushman submitted for petitioner.
They cited: American Falls Co. v. Standard Co., 248
Fed. 487; Clark v. Wooster, 119 U. S. 322; Diamond Co.
v. Seus, 159 Fed. 497; Kennicott v. Bain, 185 Fed. 520;
Leroy v. DeVry Corp'n, 16 F. (2d) 18; Root v. Railway
Co., 105 U. S. 189; Sly v. Central, 201 Fed. 683; Standard
Co. v. Magrane, 259 Fed. 793; Tompkins v. International
Paper Co., 183 Fed. 773; Tompkins v. St. Regis Co.,
236 Fed. 221; Tubular Co. v. Mt. Vernon Co., 2 F. (2d)
982; Van Raalt v. Schneck, 159 Fed. 248; Woodmanse
v. Williams, 68 Fed. 489; Jud. Code, § 267; Equity
Rule 22.
Mr. Joshua R. H. Potts, with whom Messrs. Eugene V.
Clarke and Howard S. Laughlin were on the brief, for
respondent.
Mr. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question here to be determined arose in a suit in
equity by respondent against petitioner, brought in the
federal district court for the Western District of New
York, for infringement of a patent. The bill alleged repeated and continuing infringement of the patent by petitioner, preparation and readiness to continue such infringement, and that unless petitioner was restrained
respondent would suffer great and irreparable damage, etc.

RICE & ADAMS v. LATHROP.
509

Opinion of the Court.

It was further alleged that in a prior suit for infringement,
brought by respondent against the Bowman Dairy Company, the patent had been sustained as valid and infringed; that the defense to that suit was openly conducted
by petitioner, who paid all expenses as well as the judgment rendered by the final decree; that such decree, therefore, became res judicata as against petitioner. The
prayer was for an interlocutory as well as a perpetual
injunction, and for an account to be taken of profits
realized by petitioner and damages sustained by respondent.
At the time suit was brought, only 41 or 42 days remained before the expiration of the patent. Two days
after beginning suit, respondent moved for a preliminary
injunction. After a hearing upon affidavits, the motion
was denied. The court thought no injury would result
to respondent by a refusal to grant the injunction at that
time; that infringement had ceased; that the responsibility of petitioner was unquestioned; and that the recovery of damages would be a sufficient protection for
past infringement. Subsequently, a motion by petitioner
to transfer the case to the law side of the court was made
and denied. The grounds for the denial were stated in
an opinion by the district judge, 6 F. (2d) 91, in the course
of which he said:
" In the circumstances, plaintiff had a right, at the time
this action was instituted, to commence in equity and to
assert that right to an injunction existed. . . . I must
therefore hold that the relief sought in the bill was grantable, and it was only denied by the court in the exercise
of its discretion, . . ."
The case was then proceeded with as a suit in equity.
Before the trial was entered upon, the patent in the meantime having expired, petitioner renewed its notion to
transfer to the law docket, which wasagain denied. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

trial resulted in a decree for respondent, holding the patent
to be valid and infringed, 21 F. (2d) 124; and this decree
was affirmed by the court below on appeal without
opinion. 24 F. (2d) 1021.
The sole question for our consideration is whether, after
refusing the preliminary injunction, the district court was
justified in retaining jurisdiction of the case as a suit in
equity. We allowed the writ and brought the case here
because of an alleged conflict in respect of that matter
among the decisions of the circuit courts of appeal.
The question is very nearly set at rest by Clark v.
Wooster, 119 U. S. 322. There, suit was brought to restrain a patent infringement and to recover profits and
damages. The patent involved expired 15 days after the
bill was filed. It did not appear whether an application
for an interlocutory injunction was made, but under the
rules of the court there was time before the expiration of
the patent within which it could have been made. The
final decree established the patent and its infringement,
and a reference was made to a master to take and state an
account. The jurisdiction of the trial court sitting as a
court of equity was challenged. This Court sustained the
jurisdiction and held that it was within the discretion of
the trial court under the circumstances to retain the bill
as it did. The opinion then proceeds (p. 325):
"It might have dismissed the bill, if it had deemed it
inexpedient to grant an injunction; but that was a matter
in its own sound discretion, and with that discretion it is
not our province to interfere, unless it was exercised in a
manner clearly illegal. We see no illegality in the manner
of its exercise in this case. The jurisdiction had attached,
and although, after it attached, the principal ground for
issuing an injunction may have ceased to exist by the
expiration of the patent, yet there might be other grounds
for the writ arising from the possession by the defendants
of folding guides illegally made or procured whilst the

RICE & ADAMS v. LATHROP.
509

Opinion of the Court.

patent was in force. The general allegations of the bill
were sufficiently comprehensive to meet such a case. But
even without that, if the case was one for equitable relief
when the suit was instituted, the mere fact that the
ground for such relief expired by the expiration of the
patent, would not take away the jurisdiction, and preclude the court from proceeding to grant the incidental
relief which belongs to cases of that sort. This has often
been done in patent causes, and a large number of cases
may be cited to that effect; and there is nothing in the
decision in Root v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189, to the
contrary. Cotton Tie Co. v. Simmons, 106 U. S. 89; Lake
Shore, &c. Railway v. Car-Brake Co., 110 U. S. 229; Consolidated Valve Co. v. Crosby Valve Co., 113 U. S. 157;
Thomson v. Wooster, 114 U. S. 104."
And see Beedle v. Bennett, 122 U. S. 71; Busch v. Jones,
184 U. S. 598, 599-600.
The decisions of this Court upon the point are entirely
harmonious. Root v. Railway Co., referred to in the foregoing quotation, presents no exception. There, suit was
brought long after the expiration of the patent. No
ground for equitable jurisdiction properly could be alleged,
for, plainly, none existed, and the bill was merely for an
accounting of profits and damages, the remedy at law for
which was complete. Accordingly, a decree dismissing the
bill was affirmed. We deem it unnecessary to review the
decisions in the several circuits thought to be in conflict.
In Clark v. Wooster, supra, when the bill was filed, the
patent had 15 days to run; in the present case, 41 or 42
days remained. The only substantial difference between
the two cases is that here an application for an interlocutory injunction was made and denied. But the bill stated
a case for equitable relief, and the order denying the interlocutory injunction constituted no bar to a subsequent
application upon changed conditions. 2 High on Injunctions, (4th Ed.) § 1586. While we see nothing to prevent
27228°-29-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

a retention of jurisdiction by the chancellor based upon
that contingency, we do not rest upon that ground.
An interlocutory injunction, at least ordinarily, is not
a matter of strict right; but the application is addressed
to the sound discretion of the court. 1 High on Injunctions, (4th Ed.) §'§ 11 and 937. And here the trial court
denied the application, not because it would have been
error to grant it, but in the exercise of its discretion, principally based upon a balancing of the relative conveniences
and inconveniences which might result. This is made
clear by the trial judge, who, interpreting his own action,
expressly held that the relief sought was grantable but
was only denied by the court in the exercise of its discretion. That the case was one for the exercise of discretion
is plain. Id., § 937; Southwestern Brush Elec. L. & P. Co.
v. LouisianaElec. L. Co., 45 Fed. 893, 895-896; Whitcomb
v. Girard Coal Co., 47 Fed. 315, 317-318; Rousso v. Barber, 276 Fed. 552, 553. The order denying the injunction,
therefore, was conclusive in an appellate court; and an
order granting it would have been equally so. Buffington
v. Harvey, 95 U. S. 99, 100.
As applied to the question under consideration, there is
no sound reason for making a distinction between a failure
to obtain an interlocutory injunction, because not asked
for, and a like failure, because, though asked for, it was
denied only in the exercise of a discretion which might
have been rightfully exercised the other way. This was
plainly recognized in the Wooster case, where it was said
that if the trial court had deemed it inexpedient to grant
an injunction it might have dismissed the bill, "but that
was a matter in its own sound discretion," which would not
be interfered with by this Court unless exercised in a manner clearly illegal. (Since the adoption of Equity Rule 22,
the question for the court in the case supposed would be
not whether to dismiss the bill but whether to transfer the
suit to the law side of the court. Twist v. PrairieOil Co.,

FROST v. CORPORATION COMMISSION.
509

515

Syllabus.

274 U. S. 684, 689.) The action of the trial court here in
denying the motion to transfer was within its authority,
and does not call for our interference. Jurisdiction of the
court sitting in equity, having been rightfully invoked, was
not lost either because the interlocutory injunction was
denied in the exercise of judicial discretion or by the expiration of the patent pending final decree. This conclusion finds support in the principle that "a court of equity
ought to do justice completely and not by halves," and to
this end, having properly acquired jurisdiction of the cause
for any purpose, it will ordinarily retain jurisdiction for
all purposes, including the determination of legal rights
that otherwise would fall within the exclusive authority

of a court of law.

Greene v. Louis. & InterurbanR. R.

Co., 244 U. S. 499, 520; McGowan v. Parish,237 U. S. 285,
296; Camp v. Boyd, 229 U. S. 530, 551-552.
Decree affirmed.
-

FROST, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME OF
MITCHELL GIN COMPANY, v. CORPORATION
COMMISSION OF OKLAHOMA ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 60.

Argued November 26, 1928.-Decided February 18, 1929.

1. By the statutes of Oklahoma, cotton gins operated for the ginning
of seed cotton for the public for profit are declared to be public
utilities in a public business, and no one may engage in the business
without first securing a permit from a public commission, which is
empowered to regulate the business and its rates and charges, as in
the case of transportation and transmission companies. Held: That
the right of one who has complied with the statutes and secured
his permit is not a mere license, but a franchise granted by the
State in consideration of the performance of a public service; and
as such it constitutes a property right within the protection of the
Fourteenth Amendment. P. 519.

