JORDAN v. TASHIRO.
116

Syllabus.

the permission is arbitrary and repugnant to the due
process clause, it is the duty of the superintendent to
issue, and the trustee is entitled to have, the permit
applied for.
We need not decide whether, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment, it is within the power of the State
or municipality by a general zoning law to exclude the
proposed new home from a district defined as is the first
district in the ordinance under consideration.
Judgment rever8ed.
JORDAN, SECRETARY OF STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
ET AL. v. TASHIRO ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 13. Argued April 13, 1928. Reargued October 9, 1928.-Decided
November 19, 1928.
1. Where, by the terms of a state law, aliens were entitled to file
articles of incorporation for certain purposes if so privileged by a
treaty of the United States, and not otherwise, and the highest
court of the State granted them a writ of mandamus against state
officers upon the ground that such privilege, specially set up and
claimed, was secured by the treaty, a review of the case at the
instance of the officers is within the jurisdiction of this Court under
Jud. Code, ยง 237 (b). P. 126.
2. Obligations of treaties should be liberally construed to effect the
apparent intention of the parties to secure equality and reciprocity
between them. Where a treaty admits of two constructions, one
restricting the rights that may be claimed under it and the other
enlarging them, the more liberal construction is to be preferred.
P. 127.
3. The treaty of commerce and navigation between the United States
and Japan authorizes citizens of Japan to carry on trade within
the United States and "to lease land for residential and commercial purposes, and generally to do anything incident to or necessary
for trade upon the same terms as native citizens or subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and regulations there established."

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

Held that this includes the operation of a hospital as a business
undertaking, the leasing of land for that purpose, and the exercise
of these privileges through a corporate agency. Pp. 126, 129.
201 Cal. 236, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 277 U. S. 580, to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of California which granted a writ of mandamus
against the present petitioners, the Secretary of State
and Deputy Secretary of State, of California, commanding them to file articles of incorporation tendered by the
respondents, who were Japanese aliens.

Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of California, with
whom Messrs. Robert W. Harrison and Wm. F. Cleary,
Deputy Attorneys General, were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. J. Marion Wright for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The respondents, subjects of Japan residing in California, presented for filing in the office of the Secretary of
State of California, one of the petitioners, proposed articles of incorporation of the "Japanese Hospital of Los
Angeles." The articles provided for the creation of a
business corporation with a share capital of $100,000.
They purported to authorize the corporation to construct
and operate in Los Angeles a general hospital with a home
for nurses and resident physicians, and to lease land for
that purpose.
Although the articles complied with all provisions of the
California statutes governing the organization of a corporation for such purposes, the petitioners refused to file
them on the ground that, as the respondents were citizens
of Japan, the Alien Land Law of the State did not permit
an incorporation by them for the purposes named. The
respondents then brought, in the Supreme Court of Cali-

JORDAN v. TASHIRO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

fornia, a proceeding in mandamus to compel the petitioners to file the proposed articles and to issue a certificate of
incorporation to the hospital. The mandamus petition set
up that the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between
the Government of the United States and the Empire of
Japan, proclaimed April 5, 1911, 37 Stat. 1504, and now in
force, conferred on citizens and subjects of the Empire
of Japan the right to incorporate in the United States for
the purposes named in the proposed articles.
The state court granted the writ as prayed, basing its
determination on the construction of the Treaty. Tashiro
v. Jordan,201 Cal. 236. This Court granted the petition
of the Secretary of State of California for certiorari, 277
U. S. 580.
Section 2 of the Alien Land Law of California, as
amended by the Act of the Legislature, approved June 20,
1923, Stats. 1923, p. 1020, provides that aliens of a class
in which respondents are included may- acquire, possess
and enjoy real estate within the state "in the manner
and to the extent, and for the purposes prescribed by any
treaty now existing between the government of the United
States and the nation or country of which such alien is
a citizen or subject, and not otherwise." Section 3, in like
terms, permits (a) acquisition of land by a corporation,
the majority of whose stockholders are aliens, and (b) the
purchase by aliens of stock in corporations owning or leasing land, only for purposes prescribed by such a treaty.
The statutes of California do not otherwise forbid the
organizing of a corporation by citizens of Japan residing
in the state, and by these enactments there was effected
perfect harmony in the operation of the statute and of the
Treaty. What the Treaty prescribes the statute authorizes. There is thus no possibility of conflict between the
exercise of the treaty-making power of the federal government and the reserved powers of the state such as that

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

suggested in Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 267, on which
petitioners placed reliance on the argument.
The Supreme Court of California, in passing upon the
application for mandamus, granted the relief prayed, not
as a matter of statutory construction, but because it
thought the conduct of a hospital by Japanese citizens
through the instrumentality of a corporation, organized
under the laws of the state, was a privilege secured to the
respondents by the Treaty which the state statute did not
purport to withhold. The privilege challenged by petitioners is one specially set up or claimed under a treaty
of the United States and sustained by the state court and
the case is thus one within the jurisdiction of this Court
conferred by ยง 237 (b) of the Judicial Code. Compare
Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S.109, 120.
The question presented is one of the construction of the
Treaty, the relevant portions of which are printed in the
margin.' It in ferms authorizes the citizens of Japan to
carry on trade within the United States and "to lease
land for residential and commercial purposes, and gen1Treaty of commerce and navigation between the United States
and Japan.
...ARTICLE I. The citizens or subjects of each of the High
Contracting Parties shall have liberty to enter, travel and reside in
the territories of the other to carry on trade, wholesale and retail, to
own or lease and occupy houses, manufactories, warehouses and shops,
to employ agents of their choice, to lease land for residential and
commercial purposes, and generally do anything incident to or
necessary for trade upon the same terms as native citizens or
subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and regulations there
established. ...
The citizens or subjects of each of the High Contracting Parties
shall receive, in the territories of the other, the most constant protection and security for their persons and property, and shall enjoy
in this respect the same rights and privileges as are or may be
granted to native citizens or subjects, on their submitting themselves
to the conditions imposed upon the native citizens or subjects. ...

JORDAN v. TASHIRO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

erally to do anything incident to or necessary for trade
upon the same terms as native citizens or subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and regulations there
established."
The petitioners insist that the construction and operation of a hospital is not one of the purposes prescribed by
the Treaty, which, it is argued, are limited so far as
" trade" and "commerce " are concerned to the purchase
and sale or exchange of goods and commodities, and that,
in any case, the Treaty does not confer upon Japanese
subjects, resident in California, the privilege of forming a
corporation under the laws of California or of leasing
lands through a corporate agency for such a purpose.
The principles which should control the diplomatic relations of nations, and the good faith of treaties as well,
require that their obligations should be liberally construed so as to effect the apparent intention of the parties
to secure equality and reciprocity between them. See
Geofroy v. Riggs, supra; Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S.
424, 437; Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S. 40, 57; In re Ross,
140 U. S. 453, 475. Upon like ground, where a treaty
fairly admits of two constructions, one restricting the
rights that may be claimed under it and the other enlarging them, the more liberal construction is to be preferred.
Asakura v. Seattle, 265 U. S.332; Tucker v. Alexandroif,
supra; Geofroy v. Riggs, supra.
While in a narrow and restricted sense the terms "commerce," or "commercial," and "trade" may be limited
to the purchase and sale or exchange of goods and commodities, they may connote, as well, other occupations
and other recognized forms of business enterprise which
do not necessarily involve trading in merchandise. Asakura v. Seattle, supra. And although commerce includes
traffic in this narrower sense, for more than a century it
has been judicially recognized that in a broad sense it

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

embraces every phase of commercial and business activity
and intercourse. See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 189.
Considerations which led this Court to conclude that
the terms "trade" and "commerce" as used in this
Treaty do not include agriculture, and the circumstances
attending the making of the Treaty which were deemed
to exclude from the operation of its broad language any
grant of the privilege of acquiring and using lands within
the United States for agricultural purposes, were discussed in the opinions in Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S.
197, 223; Webb v. O'Brien, 263 U. S. 313, 323; Frick v.
Webb, 263 U. S. 326, 333, and need not now be detailed.
But in Asakura v. Seattle, supra, it was held that the language of this Treaty securing to Japanese citizens the
privilege of carrying on trade within the United States
was broad enough to comprehend all classes of business
which. might reasonably be embraced in the word trade,
and included the privilege of carrying on the business of
a pawnbroker. In Clarke v. Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392,
396, in considering the Treaty with Great Britain of July
3, 1815, 8 Stat. 228; August 6, 1827, 8 Stat. 361, granting
reciprocal liberty of commerce between the United States
and Great Britain., and in holding that the guarantee that
" . . . the merchants and traders of each nation, respectively, shall enjoy the most complete protection and
security for their commerce," did not extend to a British
subject engaged in keeping a poolroom within the United
States, we took occasion to point out that the language
of the present Treaty with Japan was of broader scope
than that then before the Court.
Giving to the terms of the Treaty, as we are required
by accepted principles, a liberal rather than a narrower
interpretation, we think, as the state court held, that the
terms " trade" and " commerce," when used in conjunction with each other and with the grant of authority to
lease land for "commercial purposes " are to, be given a

JORDAN v. TASHIRO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

broader significance than that pressed upon us, and are
sufficient to include the operation of a hospital as a business undertaking; that this is a commercial purpose for
which the Treaty authorizes Japanese subjects to lease
lands.
It is said that the elimination from the original draft
of this clause of the Treaty of words authorizing the
leasing of land for "industrial, manufacturing and other
lawful" purposes (see Terrace v. Thompson, supra, p.
223) leads to the conclusion that land might not be leased
for hospital purposes by Japanese subjects, even though
under the other provisions of the Treaty they might be
permitted to operate such an institution. But as the
leasing of land for a hospital is obviously not for an industrial or manufacturing purpose, this argument presupposes that the phrase " commercial purposes" is limited to merchandising businesses, which for reasons already stated we deem inadmissible. Moreover, a construction which concedes the authority of Japanese subjects to operate a hospital but would deny to them an
appropriate means of controlling so much of the earth's
surface as is indispensable to its operation, does not comport with a reasonable, to say nothing of a liberal, construction. The Supreme Court of California has reached
a like conclusion in State of California v. Tagami, 195
Cal. 522, holding that this Treaty secured to a Japanese
subject the privilege of leasing land within the state for
the purpose of using and occupying it for the maintenance
of a health resort and sanitarium.
The contention that the Treaty does not permit the
exercise of the privileges secured by it through a corporate
agency requires no extended consideration. The employment of such an agency is incidental to the exercise of
the granted privilege. But it is not an incident which
enlarges the privilege by annexing to the permitted business another class of business otherwise excluded from the
27228-29-

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

grant, as would have been the case in Terrace v. Thompson, supra, had the business of farming been deemed an
incident to the business of trading in farm products.
The principle of liberal construction of treaties would
be nullified if a grant of enumerated privileges were held
not to include the use of the usual methods and instrumentalities of their exercise. Especially would this be the
case where the granted privileges relate to trade and
commerce and the use of land for commercial purposes.
It would be difficult to select any single agency of more
universal use or more generally recognized as a usual and
appropriate means of carrying on commerce and trade
than the business corporation. And it would, we think,
be a narrow interpretation indeed which, in the absence
of restrictive language, would lead to the conclusion that
the Treaty had secured to citizens of Japan the privilege
of engaging in a particular business, but had denied to
them the privilege of conducting that business in corporate form. But here any possibility of doubt would
seem to be removed by the clause which confers on citizens and subjects of the High Contracting Parties the
right "... to do anything generally incident to or necessary for trade upon the same terms as native citizens
or subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and regulations there established."
Affirmed.
PACIFIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. PETERSON,
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 49.

Argued October 24, 1928.-Decided November 26, 1928.

1. Under ยง 20 of the Seamen's Act, as amended by ยง 33 of the Merchant Marine Act, which provides that any seaman who shall
suffer personal injury in the course of his employment may, "at
his election" maintain an action for damages at law, etc., an action to recover compensatory damages for an injury due to the

