WARNER CO. v. PIER CO.
Statement of the Case.

CHARLES WARNER COMPANY v. INDEPENDENT
PIER COMPANY.
SAME v. S. S. "GULFTRADE."
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 22 and 23. Argued October 10, 1928.-Decided November 19,
1928.
1. A steamship desiring to pass a flotilla of scows towed by a tug
which she had followed on the flood tide up the Delaware River
and thence into the still water of the Schuylkill, repeated a passing
signal after making the turn, and upon receiving an assent from
the tug, proceeded up the mid-channel of the Schuylkill and
collided with the scows, which had been swung across it laterally
from the tug by the momentum imparted by the tide in the Delaware. Held, that the tug by assenting to the passing did not
assume responsibility for the maneuver, and that the fault lay
entirely with the steamship, as she should have anticipated the
effect of the tide and kept out of the way. P. 89.
2. Objections to a decree made by respondents who did not themselves apply for certiorari, are not to be considered. P. 91.
20 F. (2d) 111, reversed; District Court affirmed.
'CERTIORARI, 275 U. S. 521, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which modified the decree of the District Court in a collision case. The petitioner, Charles
Warner Company, owner or charterer of the tug Taurus
and several scows, libeled, in rem, the steamship Gulftrade, one of the two respondents herein (Gulf Refining
Company, claimant) and two tugs, the Triton and the
Churchman. It also sought damages from the two tugowners in personam. The District Court gave judgment
against the Gulftrade and the Independent Pier Company, the other respondent herein, owner of the Triton,
and dismissed the libel as to the Churchman and its owner.
The Circuit Court of Appeals decreed that the damages

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for "Gulftrade."

278 U. S.

should be divided between the petitioner and the respondents. The latter did not apply for certiorari.
Mr. Everett H. Brown, Jr., for petitioner.
It was the duty of the Gulf trade, the overtaking vessel,
to keep out of the way of the Taurus and its tow, the
overtaken vessel, and the assent by the Taurus to the
passing signal of the Gulftrade constituted no more than
an acknowledgment of the purpose of the Gulftrade, an
assent to the passage at her risk, and an agreement on
the part of the Taurus not to endanger the passage by
permitting an interfering change in her position or in the
position of her tow. Inland Rules, Art. 18, Rule VIII,
Rule IX; Art. 23, Art. 24; Pilot Rule VI; Spencer, Marine Collisions, ยง 69; The Rhode Island, Olcott 505; Fed.
Cas. 11,745; Whitridge v. Dill, 23 How. 448; City of Baltimore, 282 Fed. 490; Southern Pacific Co. v. Haglund,
277 U. S. 304; Atlas Transportation Co. v. Lee Line
Steamers, 235 Fed. 492.
The Taurus was not guilty of fault in assenting to the
passing signal of the Gulftrade.
Mr. Howard M. Long for respondent in No. 22.
The collision was due solely to the failure of the
Taurus to keep her tow in line. Art. 21, Pilot Rules;
The Garden City, 19 Fed. 524; The Dentz, 29 Fed. 525;
The Menominee, 197 Fed. 736; The Aurora, 258 Fed.
439; The Wrestler, 232 Fed. 448; The City of Baltimore,
282 Fed. 490.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in not completely
reversing the decree of the District Court and in not holding the Taurus solely at fault for the collision.
Mr. Chauncey I. Clark, with whom Mr. FredericConger
was on the brief, for respondent in No. 23.
The collision was due solely to the failure of the Taurus
to keep her tow in line. The Wrestler, 232 Fed. 448; The

WARNER CO. v. PIER CO.
85

Opinion of the Court.

Aurora, 258 Fed. 439; The Madison, 250 Fed. 850; The
Wyckoff, 138 Fed. 418; The R. J. Moran, 299 Fed. 500;
The Genessee, 138 Fed. 549; The Zouave, 122 Fed. 890;
The Overbrook, 149 Fed. 785; The Pencoyd, 157 Fed. 134;
Thames Towboat Co. v. Penna. R. R. Co., 157 Fed. 305;
The George W. Childs, 67 Fed. 269.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Haglund, 277 U. S. 304 was not
an overtaking situation; it was one of special circumstances. Atlas TransportationCo. v. Lee Line Steamers,
235 Fed. 492, is analogous to this case, only in that both
presented an overtaking situation.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These two numbers on our docket present one cause
in admiralty. It arose out of a collision between the
single screw steamer Gulftrade-429 feet long, 59 foot
beam-and two loaded scows which, with two others,

were being towed by the tug Taurus upon hawsers astern.
The flotilla was about 400 feet long. Both the tug and
scows were owned or chartered by petitioner, Charles
Warner Company. The Gulftrade was accompanied by
the tugs Triton and Churchman, made fast to her port
bow and port quarter. They were owned respectively
by Independent Pier Company and Alfred E. Churchman. The Triton's master was upon the steamer and
commanded the three associated vessels.
The accident occurred in the Schuylkill River near its
confluence with the Delaware at 3: 00 P. M., October 1st,
1923. The weather was fair, tide flood, wind light.
Drawing her tow the Taurus passed slowly up the
Delaware with the tide and rounded into the still water
of the two hundred foot channel of the Schuylkill. The
Gulf trade followed under her own power carrying with
her the attending tugs, their engines motionless until

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

the last moment before the collision. Shortly after the
flotillas entered the Schuylkill the Gulftrade for the third
time, by a single blast, indicated her desire to pass to
starboard-eastward. The Taurus (as she had done
twice before while in the Delaware) gave an assenting
blast. Attempting to pass in mid-channel, the steamer
struck two of the scows and caused material loss.
The District Court found that " the set of the tide
swung the tail of the tow to the eastward and more or less
athwart the channel until it had straightened out ...
This, however, was a condition which the steamship was
bound to anticipate and doubtless did. What happened
was that the navigator of the ship expecting the tow
would go to the westward and seeing it was so headed
assumed it would be out of his way by the time he
reached the passing point and that a passage up midchannel would be clear. In this he miscalculated and
hence the collision." It declared the steamer guilty of
negligence; the Taurus without fault; and awarded full
damages in favor of petitioner Charles Warner Company
primarily against the Independent Pier Company, owner
of the Triton, and secondarily against the Gulftrade.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held-" Under the circumstances the Taurus was in fault in giving consent to
the Gulftrade to come ahead, relying too much on her
ability to get out of the channel. Evidently the Taurus
miscalculated the situation. So, also, it seems the Gulftrade was at fault. She was the following vessel. All
he had to do was to hold back and not run into the
scows. She certainly saw danger ahead when she gave
the second signal and she certainly saw it more imminent
when she gave the third signal. It was quite clear that
she did go ahead and took an equal chance with the
Taurus -on the ability of the latter to give her free chan.nelway to pass. The result was a needless collision."

WARNER CO. v. PIER CO.
85

Opinion of the Court.

We cannot conclude that the Taurus was in fault.
She was prudently navigated in plain view of the Gulftrade who knew the relevant facts; and by assenting that
the latter might pass she certainly did not assume responsibility for the maneuver. At most the Taurus
obligated herself to hold her course and speed so far as
practicable, to do nothing to thwart the overtaking vessel,
and that she knew of no circumstances not open to the
observation of the Gulftrade which would prevent the
latter from going safely by, if prudently navigated. Of
course no ship must ever lead another into a trap. There
was ample room for the Gulftrade to pass. But if not,
she should have slowed down and kept at a safe distance.
Her fault was the direct and sole cause of the collision.
By the Act to adopt regulations for preventing collisions, etc., approved June 7, 1897, (c. 4, 30 Stat. 96, et
seq.) it is provided"Art. 18, Rule VIII. When steam-vessels are running in
the same direction, and the vessel which is astern shall desire to pass on the right or starboard hand of the vessel
ahead, she shall give one short blast of the steam-whistle,
as a signal of such desire, and if the vessel ahead answers
with one blast, she shall put her helm to port; or if she
shall desire to pass on the left or port side of the vessel
ahead, she shall give two short blasts of the steam-whistle
as a signal of such desire, and if the vessel ahead answers
with two blasts, shall put her helm to starboard; or if the
vessel ahead does not think it safe for the vessel astern to
attempt to pass at that point, she shall immediately signify the same by giving several short and rapid blasts of
the steam-whistle, not less than four, and under no circumstances shall the vessel astern attempt to pass the vessel
ahead until such time as they have reached a point where
it can be safely done, when said vessel ahead shall signify
her willingness by blowing the proper signals. The vessel

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court

278 U. S.

ahead shall in no case attempt to cross the bow or crowd
upon the course of the passing vessel.
"Art. 23. Every steam-vessel which is directed by these
rules to keep out of the way of another vessel shall, on approaching her, if necessary, slacken her speed or stop or
reverse.
"Art. 24. Notwithstanding anything contained in these.
rules every vessel, overtaking any other, shall keep out of
the way of the overtaken vessel."
Under these regulations the duty of the Gulftrade was
clear. She should have anticipated the effect of the flood
tide in the Delaware upon the flotillas as they rounded
into the still water of the Schuylkill and kept herself out
of the zone of evident danger.
In Southern Pacific Co. v. Haglund (The Thoroughfare), 277 U. S. 304, 310, we said"The Relief was not at fault in accepting the passing
signal of the Thoroughfare. This was merely an assent to
the proposed passage in the rear of the Enterprise,expressing an understanding of what the Thoroughfare proposed
to do and an agreement not to endanger or thwart it by
permitting an interfering change in the position of the
Enterprise. See Atlas Transp. Co. v. Lee Line Steamers
(C. C. A.), 235 Fed. 492, 495. And the Relief, being in a
position to fully carry out its agreement, was under no
obligation to decline the passing signal because of the approach of the Union on the other side and to sound instead
a warning signal. There was nothing in the situation to
indicate that the approach of the Union would prevent
the Thoroughfare from passing safely, if, as the Relief had
the right to assume, it were navigated with due care."
In Atlas Transp. Co. v. Lee Line Steamers, 235 Fed. 492,
495, the Circuit Court of Appeals (8th C. C. A.) had
held"The reply of the Josh Codk to the passing signal of the
Rees Lee was no more than an assent to it, at the risk of

WARNER CO. v. PIER CO.
85

Opinion of the Court.

the vessel proposing it. It expressed an understanding of
what the Rees Lee proposed to do, and an agreement not
to thwart it; but the success of the maneuver was at the
risk of the Rees Lee."
Whitridge v. Dill, 23 How. 448, 453"The vessel astern, as a general rule, is bound to give
way, or to adopt the necessary precautions to avoid a collision. That rule rests upon the principle that the vessel
ahead, on that state of facts, has the sea-way before her,
and is entitled to hold her position; and consequently the
vessel coming up must keep out of the way."
The Steamer Rhode Island, Fed. Cas. 11,745--20 Fed.
Cas. 646, 650"The approaching vessel, when she has command of her
movements, takes upon herself the peril of determining
whether a safe passage remains for her beside the one preceding her, and must bear the consequences of misjudgment in that respect."
See also City of Baltimore, 282 Fed. 490, 492; The Pleiades, 9 F. (2d) 804, 806.
Objections to the decree below were offered by counsel
for respondents in their briefs and arguments here. But
no application for certiorari was made in their behalf and
we confine our consideration to errors assigned by the petitioner. Steele v. Drummond, 275 U. S. 199, 203; Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Pacific Paper Ass'n, 273 U. S. 52, 66;
Webster Co. v. Splitdorf Co., 264 U. S. 463, 464; Alice
State Bank v. Houston Pasture Co., 247 U. S. 240, 242;
Hubbard v. Tod, 171 U. S. 474, 494; The Maria Martin,
12 Wall. 31, 40.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District Court is affirmed. The cause will
be remanded to the latter court for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

