LARSON v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
427

Syllabus.

motion as a libellant, and it was held that when the soye-reign thus voluntarily brought itself within the jurisdiction in a collision case it should be assumed to agree
that justice should be done with regard to the subject
matter, and therefore that it might be held liable in damages if its vessel was in fault. The main question in the
case was whether the United States could be held at all.
When that point was decided interest was allowed as generally it would be allowed against a private party, there
being nothing to qualify the submission found to be implied. But in the present case the United States is
brought into Court to defend its property under a statute
that marks the limits of the liability assumed. The cross
libel is really an incident of the suit, contemplated by the
very words of the special act which provide for a decree in
favor of either party, and it would be absurd to say that
if the United States resorted to the usual instruments of
defence the statute authorized what otherwise it did not
allow.
Decree reversed.
LARSON v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 102. Argued January 8, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.
1. A construction by a State Supreme Court of a contract between
the State and an individual, is not binding on this Court when
assailed under the Contract Clause of the Federal Constitution.
P. 433.
2. A statute of South Dakota empowers municipal authorities to grant
leases to operate ferries upon waters within the State to persons
who shall bid and secure the highest rent for the same; declares
it unlawful to operate a ferry without a license; and provides
that when a lease has been granted, another shall not be granted
across the same stream within two miles of the ferry landing
of the first. After the plaintiff, by complying with the statute,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of the Case.

278 U. S.

had acquired leases and at large expense established a profitable
ferry under them, the State, pursuant to later Acts of the Legislature, constructed a free bridge within the granted limits, the effect
of which was to destroy the value of his leases and business and
render his investment worthless. Held:
(1) The exclusive ferry leases were contracts between the State
and the lessee. P. 432.
(2) A public grant is to be strictly construed and nothing passes
to the grantee by implication. P. 435.
(3) So construed, the ferry leases were not infringed by the
building of the bridge. P. 437.
51 S.D. 561, affirmed.

The appellant, hereafter to be called the petitioner, sued
the State of South Dakota, in its Supreme Court, for
damages for the destruction of his ferry franchises on the
Missouri River, under the authority of § 2109, South
Dakota Revised Code of 1919.
Petitioner alleged in his complaint that he was granted
ferry franchises under §§ 8696 to 8704 of the same Code.
Section 8696 provided:
"It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain or operate upon any waters within this state any
ferry, upon which to convey, carry or transport any person
or property for hire or reward, without first having procured a ferry lease, as provided in this article; and where
but one bank or shore is in this state, the board of county
commissioners of the proper county, or the governing body
of the proper city or incorporated town, shall have the
same authority as if the entire stream were within this
state so far as the banks and waters actually within it are
concerned, and when any ferry lease has been granted, no
other lease shall be granted within a distance of two miles
from the place described, in the application for a ferry
lease, as the ferry landing across the same stream .
Section 8697 provided:
"The board of county commissioners of the proper
county or the governing body of the proper city or incorporated town to whom application shall be made for a ferry

LARSON v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
429

Statement of the Case.

lease, in the manner hereinafter provided, shall have authority and it shall be its duty to grant a ferry lease, for
the term of not exceeding fifteen years, to the person who
shall bid and secure the highest amount of rent for the
"
same.
The complaint further alleged that the State, by appropriate action of the county commissioners of Walworth
County in 1916, and of those of Corson County in 1921,
for a valuable consideration, granted to the petitioner
exclusive leases or ferry franchises of fifteen and five years'
duration respectively, and authorized him to operate a
ferry upon and across the Missouri River for such toll
charges as were provided by law, in an area extending two
miles in either direction from the landing point; that the
petitioner accepted the ferry franchises, and invested
money in the purchase of ferry boats, motor boats, landings and buildings to equip the ferry, to the amount of
$14,000. He further alleged that the State, pursuant to
acts of its Legislature, during the years 1923 and 1924,
constructed a steel and concrete bridge across the Missouri
River at a site designated by law, upon and within the
confines of plaintiff's exclusive ferry franchises and within
two miles west of the point of the ferry landing; that the
bridge is a free bridge and became usable about November
10, 1924; that the ferry had first been run at a loss, as
expected, but that recently it had yielded over $5,000 a
year profit; that by the construction of the bridge petitioner's business as a ferryman and his property right in
his franchises were totally destroyed and the investments
made by him were rendered worthless and resulted in a
damage to him of $44,000, no part of which has been paid.
He therefore asked judgment in that amount.
The defendant, the State, demurred to the complaint of
the petitioner on the ground, among others, that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The Supreme Court sustained the demurrer.

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

The petitioner having failed to file an amended complaint
the original complaint was dismissed. 51 S. D. 561.
An appeal to this Court was allowed under § 237(a) of
the Judicial Code.
The petitioner contended in the state court, and contends here, that the acts of the state Legislature, under
which the bridge was constructed, impaired the obligation
of the contract embodied in his ferry leases or franchises
and therefore were void as being in conflict with the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. Win. M. Potts, with whom Mr. Byron S. Payne
was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Buell F. Jones, Attorney General of South Dakota, Raymond L. Dillman, and Ray F. Drewry, Assistant
Attorneys General, were on the brief for appellee.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTIcE TAFT, after stating the case,
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The exclusive ferry leases were contracts between ,the
State and the petitioner. The Binghamton Bridge, 3
Wall. 51. Was the building of the bridge a breach of
them?
The Supreme Court of the State has had the meaning
of "exclusive ferry franchise " before it twice before this
case, in Nixon v. Reid, 8 S.D. 507, and in Chamberlain
Ferry & Cable Bridge v. King, 41 S. D. 246; but these
cases did not require consideration of the effect of the
term as applied to anything but ferries. The court said
on that subject in the present case:
"All that is contemplated by the statute and all that
was granted by the plaintiff's leases was the right to
operate a ferry together with a prohibition upon the
granting boards from granting other ferry leases within
the granted area during the period. . . . Nowhere in

LARSON v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
429

Opinion of the Court.

the statute can be found or implied a provision that the
State was binding itself not to construct, nor authorize the
construction of, a bridge across the river within the four
mile area, or not to permit carriage by aviation across it.
The fair and reasonable construction of the statute is that
it refers solely to transportation by ferry."
Coming from the State Supreme Court, this language
is very persuasive of the meaning of the statute and would
indicate that in its view the building of a bridge was not
a breach of the ferry contracts.
The petitioner relies on the contract clause of the Federal Constitution, and is not prevented from invoking
from this Court an independent consideration of what the
contract means, and whether by a proper construction, the
building of a bridge impairs its obligation. Appleby v.
City of New York, 271 U. S.364, 380; Columbia Ry. Co.
v. South Carolina, 261 U. S. 236, 245; Long Sault Development Co. v. Call, 242 U. S.272, 277; Louisiana Ry.
& Navigation Co. v. New Orleans, 235 U. S. 164, 170;
Mobile and Ohio R. R. Co. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486,
492; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 684; New
Orleans Water Co. v. Louisiana Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18,
38; Wright v. Nagle, 101 U. S. 791, 794; University v.
People, 99 U. S.309, 321; Bridge Proprietorsv. Hobo ken
Co., 1 Wall. 116, 145; The Binghamton Bridge, 3 Wall.
51, 81; Jefferson Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black. 436, 443.
We must therefore treat the question as an open one
and determine as an independent matter what the parties
must be held to have had in mind in the use of the term
"exclusive lease."
The chapter of the Revised Code of the State immediately preceding that which directs the letting and granting of exclusive ferry leases provides for the building of
bridges over the rivers of South Dakota. This close relation of the chapters suggests that if bridges were intended
to be forbidden by the contract, the parties would have
27228'-29---28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

been likely to mention a bridge as a breach. But there is
no mention of a bridge in the statute or contract dealing
with ferries.
On the other hand, it is argued that it was so well.
understood by everyone, including the parties, that the
erection of a bridge in the forbidden area would destroy
the value of the ferry leases, and so defeat the real object
of the leases, that an implication necessarily arises that
a bridge would be a breach of the leases.
Reference is made to Newburgh Turnpike Co. v. Miller,
5 Johns. Ch. 101, 111, a decision by Chancellor Kent.
That was a suit to enjoin as a nuisance the construction
and use of a bridge over the Wallkill River, upon which
the plaintiff had a toll bridge of more than ten years'
standing, and the injunction was granted.
The Chancellor said:
"It was observed in the case of Ogden v. Gibbons (4
Johns. Ch. Rep. 150, 160), and shown to be a principle of
the common law, that if one had a ferry by prescription,
and another erected a ferry so near it, as to draw away
its custom, it was a nuisance, for which the injured party
had his remedy by action. The same law and remedy were
applied to the case of a fair or market, in which an individual had a freehold interest, if another fair or market
was erected or used within its vicinity. The same doctrine
applies to any exclusive privilege created by statute: all
such privileges come within the equity and reason of the
principle; no rival road, bridge, ferry, or other establishment of a similar ldnd, and for like purposes, can be
tolerated so near to the other as materially to affect or
take away its custom. It operates as a fraud upon the
grant, and goes to defeat it. The consideration by which
individuals are invited to expend money upon great and
expensive and hazardous public works, as roads and
bridges, and to become bound to keep them in constant
and good repair, is the grant of a right to an exclusive toll.

LARSON v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
429

Opinion of the Court.

This right, thus purchased for a valuable consideration,
can not be taken away by direct or indirect means, devised
for the purpose, both of which are equally unlawful."
It will be observed that the facts there related to two
bridges, and the case is not necessarily an express authority holding that an exclusive franchise for a ferry excludes
a bridge. Yet it may be strongly argued from the language used that that is what the Chancellor had in mind.
We think, however, a broader question arises in the
proper construction of a public grant like this. The leading case on the subject in Federal jurisprudence is that of
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 547.
In that case the Legislature of Massachusetts incorporated a company to build a bridge over the Charles River
where a ferry stood, granting it tolls. Years after, the
Legislature incorporated another company for the erection
of another bridge within 800 feet of the original one. The
new bridge was to become free after a few years, and at the
time of the litigation it had become actually free. The
Charles River Bridge was deprived of the tolls and its
value was destroyed. Its proprietors filed a bill against
the proprietors of the Warren Bridge, for an injunction
against the use of the bridge as an act impairing the obligations of a contract and repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States. The Supreme Court of Massachusetts
dismissed the bill and the case was brought by error to this
Court, which affirmed the judgment of the Massachusetts
court. The principle of the case is that public grants are
to be strictly construed, that nothing passes to the grantee
by implication. The court cited United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 738; Jackson v. Lamphire, 3 Pet. 280,
289; Beaty v. Lessee of Knowler, 4 Pet. 152, 165; Providence Bank v. Billings and Pittman, 4 Pet. 514, 561. In
the last case Chief Justice Marshall said, of an asserted
limitation on the taxing power:
" .
as the whole community is interested in retaining it undiminished, that community has a right to

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

insist that its abandonment ought not to be presumed, in
a case in which the deliberate purpose of the state to abandon it does not appear."
The case then before the court was held to be subject
to the same rule, although one of a corporate grant. The
act of incorporation was silent in respect to the contested
power. The argument made in favor of the proprietors
of the Charles River Bridge was the same as that of the
Providence Bank, namely, that the power claimed by the
State, if it existed, must be so used as not to destroy the
value of the franchise granted to the corporation. The
argument was rejected.
Chief Justice Taney, delivering the opinion in the
Charles River Bridge case, said [p. 547]:

"But the object and end of all government is to promote
the happiness and prosperity of the community by which
it is established; and it can never be assumed that the government intended to diminish its power of accomplishing
the end for which it was created. And in a country like
ours, free, active, and enterprising, continually advancing
in numbers and wealth, new channels of communication
are daily found necessary, both for travel and trade, and
are essential to the comfort, convenience and prosperity of
the people. A state ought never to be presumed to surrender this power, because, like the taxing power, the
whole community have an interest in preserving it undiminished. And when a corporation alleges that a state
has surrendered for seventy years its power of improvement and public accommodation, in a great and important
line of travel, along which a vast number of its citizens
must daily pass, the community have a right to insist, in
the language of this Court above quoted, 'that its abandonment ought not to be presumed in a case in which the
deliberate purpose of the state to abandon does not
appear.'"

LARSON v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
429

Opinion of the Court.

The same principle is declared in Fanning v. Gregoire,
16 How. 524, 534; Wright v. Nagle, 101 U. S. 791, 796;
Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Co. v. Wheeling Bridge Co.,
138 U. S. 287, '293, and Williams v. Mingo, 177 U. S. 601,
603. Speaking for the Court in the last case Mr. Justice
Brewer said:
"A contract binding the State is only created by clear
language and is not to be extended by implication beyond
the terms of the statute. Fanning v. Gregoire, 16 How.
524, is in point and decisive."
The cases above cited are not exactly on all fours with
the specific issue presented here, but they serve to show
with great emphasis the necessity for one who relies upon
a public grant as a basis for a private right,-to bring it
expressly within the grant or statute.
It is clear from them that in determining the effect of a
public grant to an individual ihe principle ut res magis
valeat quam pereat is not to be applied in his favor or an
implication to be made enlarging his grant, as seems to
have been the view of Chancellor Kent in Newburgh
Turnpike Co. v. Miller, supra.
The contention that an exclusive ferry franchise should
be construed to cover all methods of travel and transportation across the water is rejected in Dyer v. Tuskaloosa
Bridge Co., 2 Porter 296 (Ala. 1835); Piatt v. Covington
& CincinnatiBridge Co., 8 Bush 31 (Ky. 1871); Snidow
v. Board of Supervisors of Giles County, 123 Va. 578
(1918); Dibden v. Skirrow [1908] 1 Ch. 41. There are
many strong dicta to this same effect. Morey v. Orford
Bridge, Smith (N. H. 1804) 91, 95; PiscataquaBridge v.
New Hampshire Bridge, 7 N. H. 35, 59 (1834); Bush v.
Peru Bridge Co., 3 Ind. 21, 24 (1851); Parrot v. Lawrence, Fed. Cas. No. 10772 (C. C. Kan. 1872) 18 Fed.
Cas. 1234; State ex rel. McPherson Bros. v. Superior
Court, 142 Wash. 284, 291 (1927).

438"

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

The great weight of authority holds that a contractual
term forbidding a ferry7 or a toll bridge does not exclude
a railroad bridge. Mohawk Bridge Co. v. Utica & Schenectady R. R., 6 Paige 554, 564 (N. Y. 1837); McLeod v.
Savannah,Albany & Gulf R. R., 25 Ga. 445 (1858); Bridge
Proprietors v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 149 (1863);
Hopkins v. Great Northern Ry., 2 Q. B. D. 224 (1877),
overruling Regina v. Cambrian Ry., L. R. 6 Q. B. 422
(1871). Contra: Enfield Toll Bridge Co. v. Hartford &
New Haven R. R., 17 Conn. 40, 45 (1845).
There is some conflicting authority on the main question. Gates v. McDaniel, 2 Stewart 211 (Ala. 1829);
Norris v. Farmers' & Teamsters' Co., 6 Cal. 590 (1856);
Menzel Estate Co. v. City of Redding, 178 Cal. 475
(1918); Blanchardv. Abraham, 115 La. 989 (1906). But
all of these cases are distinguishable in that the infringing
bridge or ferry was established without legal authority,
and there were other reasons such as obstruction to navigation, special statutes, or injury to tangible property
which affected the decisions.
The strongest case for the appellant is Mason v. Harper's Ferry Bridge Co., 17 W. Va. 396 (1880), where a
statute forbidding other ferries was held to give an exclusive right to transportation over the river and hence
to prohibit rival bridges as well, but the court said that
the Legislature could take away at any time all the exclusive privileges of the proprietors theretofore existing.
In Hopkins v. Great Northern Railway, 2 Q. B. D. 224,
230 (1877), a railway company built a railway bridge and
a foot bridge across a river one-half mile above an ancient
ferry, which then went out of business. It was held that
the ferry could not obtain compensation for either bridge,
the railway being necessary for new traffic, and the foot
bridge being used by those going to the railway station
or by trespassers. There was a dictum by a court of dis-

ARLINGTON HOTEL v. FANT.
429

Syllabus.

tinguished English judges " that the owner of a ferry has
not a grant of an exclusive right of carrying passengers
and goods across the stream by any means whatever, but
only a grant of an exclusive right to carry them across by
means of a ferry."
We can hardly say, therefore, from the weight of authority, that an exclusive grant of a ferry franchise, without more, would prevent a legislature from granting the
right to build a bridge near the ferry. Following the
cases in this Court in its limited and careful construction
of public grants, it is manifest that we must reach in this
case the same conclusion.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Dakota is
Affirmed.
ARLINGTON HOTEL COMPANY v. FANT ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 157.

Argued January 17, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

Land in Arkansas, on which there are hot springs valuable for the
curative powers of their waters, was reserved from private appro-

priation by Act of Congress, passed in 1832 while Arkansas was a
territory. A portion of it, which embraced the springs, was permanently reserved, in charge of the Interior Department, by an Act
of Congress, passed after Arkansas had been admitted to statehood;
and upon this portion, an Army and Navy Hospital, since maintained, was established by authority of Congress. Thereafter, exclusive jurisdiction over land of the permanent reservation, including the hospital and a contiguous parcel on which a hotel was being
operated under lease from the United States, was ceded to the
United States by the state legislature and accepted by Congress,
reserving to the State power to serve civil and criminal process on
the ceded tract and the right to tax, as private property, all structures br other property in private ownership there. The hotel was
destroyed by fire; property of the hotel guests was consumed; and
the question arose whether the landlord was liable to them as in-

