UNITED STATES v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES ET AL. V. MISSOURI PACIFIC
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No., 19.

Argued March 5, 6, 1928. Reargued April 24, and November 19, 20, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring a
railroad carrier to participate in proposed through routes exceeds
the authority granted by paragraph (3) of § 15 of the Interstate Commerce Act as restricted by paragraph (4), where the
part of the carrier's railroad to be included is slight in length as
compared with other parts over which it enjoys long hauls under
existing routes between termini the same as those proposed.
So held where existing routes were not found unreasonably long
and where neither § 3 of the Act nar water transportation was
involved. P. 276.
2. The provision of paragraph (4) forbidding the Commission to
embrace in a through route substantially less than the entire
length of a carrier's railroad which lies between the termini of
such route can not be construed as covering only such routes as
will deprive the carrier of its long haul after it has obtained possession of the traffic. P. 277.
3. Where the language of a statute is plain and unambiguous, there
is no room for construction. Even if inconveniences or hardships result from following the statute as written, construction
may not be substituted for legislation to relieve them. P. 277.
4. Where the language of a statute is clear and does not lead to
absurd or impracticable consequences, its legislative history may
not be used to support a construction that adds to or takes from
the significance of the words employed. P. 278.
5. The reasons for, and significant circumstances leading up to the
enactment may, however, be noticed in confirmation of the meaning conveyed by the words used. P. 278.
6. The rule that re-enactment of a statute after it has been construed by officers charged with its enforcement impliedly adopts
the construction, applies only when the construction is not plainly
erroneous and to cases presenting the precise conditions passed
on prior to the re-enactment. P. 279.
7. The rule attaching weight to a definitely settled administrative
construction is inapplicable where the statute is not doubtful; and

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

278 U. S.

if the construction has not been uniform, it will be taken into
account only to the extent that it is supported by valid reasons.
P. 280.
21 F. (2d) 351, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three judges
permanently enjoining the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission establishing through
routes and joint rates. The suit was brought against the
United States by the above-named Railroad. The Commission and Ft. Smith, Subiaco and Rock Island Railrioad
intervened to defend. All parties defendant appealed.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell was on the brief, for the United States.
Section 15 (3) and (4) was designed to empower the
Commission to create new through routes and joint rates
pursuant to a previous policy declared by Congress in its
action in striking from § 15 the words, "provided no
reasonable or satisfactory through route exists," after the
decision in Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Northern
Pacific, 216 U. S. 538.
The limitation prescribed in paragraph (4) was not
intended to submerge the provisions of paragraph (3) of
§ 15. The Court will give force and effect to each and
every part of the statute.
Missouri Pacific's claim that the newly-established
route " short-hauls" it, is groundless, for the simple reason that Missouri Pacific does not operate through that
gateway and its main line is not part of "such proposed
through route." Its much emphasized main line from
Memphis to Ft. Smith lies many miles north of 'the
Subiaco line, with a river intervening and impassable
roads which leave the population of the community and
the 54 miles of railroad of the Subiaco line utterly without any through routes and joint rates on westbound interstate transportation. Missouri Pacific secures the haul

UNITED STATES v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
269

Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

on such part of its line as is embraced in "such proposed
through route," that is to say, its branch from Paris to
Ft. Smith; and, of course, from Ft. Smith to Kansas City,
and other points beyond Ft. Smith to which it may operate
its line. Traffic moving from territory east of the Mississippi River may never come into possession of Missouri
Pacific until it reaches Paris.
The order covers westbound traffic only. Not acquiring the traffic at either Memphis or Ft. Smith and, if it
did acquire it, not being able to handle it through the
region which is served by the Subiaco line, Missouri Pacific is not in a position to make the claim that it is" shorthauled." For many years the Commission has construed
the clause to mean that possession of the traffic is essential to maintain the long haul; a fortiori, inability to
handle the traffic over " such proposed through route " by
its main line and never acquiring possession of the traffic
until it reaches Paris puts it beyond the power of Missouri
Pacific to complain that by the new route it is "shorthauled."
The opinion and decree of the District Court failed to
give force and effect to the statute in accordance with the
views expressed by this Court in a series of cases which
emphasize the provisions of the Int3rstate Commerce Act
that competition among carriers shall be preserved as fully
as possible.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrell
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Section 15 (4) does not except from the mandate laid
upon the Commission by § 15 (3) to establish through
routes desirable in the public interest, all through routes
which short-haul a carrier, but only those which deprive
the carrier of its long haul after it has obtained possession
of the traffic thereunder.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

278 U. S.

An interpretation of paragraph (4) permitting "carriers not yet in possession" as well as " carriers inpossession" of the traffic to refuse to join in through routes that
do not embrace their long-hauls, would, when applied to
the railroad situation on the ground, leave it open for
the frequently conflicting long-haul interests of those two
classes of carriers to shut off through routes altogether
between many shipping and marketing points.
A construction that could result in depriving shippers
between particular points of any through route is contrary to the clear intent of the particular paragraph
that some practicable through route shall be in existence
or open to establishment in all cases.
A construction that could result in depriving shippers
betwen particular points of any through route is likewise
opposed to the trend of the Act's amendments progressively enlarging the Commission's authority to compel
closer co6rdination of the carriers in rendering an efficient
joint service.
Resort to extraneous considerations, rendered permissible by the latent ambiguity disclosed in, or attributed
to, the paragraph by the interpretation of the lower court,
shows that the exception should be construed as permitting "carriers in possession" only to refuse to join in
through routes that do not embrace their long hauls.
That the exception is applicable only to " carriers in
possession" is shown by the explanatory statement of the
Senate's Interstate Commerce Committee when presenting it as an amendment to the House Bill, and that construction as given to it by a long line of Commission decisions has been impliedly sanctioned by the reenactment
of the statute without alteration in the particulars construed.
Such scope as may be given the restriction will operate
as an exception, not alone to paragraph (3) but also to the
outstanding purpose of the Transportation Act to promote

UNITED STATES v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
269

Opinion of the Court.

a generally effective transportation service. Therefore the
exception should be narrowly construed to render it, so
far as possible, compatible with that outstanding purpose.
The Commission's construction is less repugnant to the
many interrelated provisions of the amended Act evidencing that purpose.
Mr. James B. McDonough for the Ft. Smith, Subiaco &
Rock Island Railroad Company.
Mr. H. H. Larimore,with whom Messrs. Edw. J. White
and Thos. B. Pryor were on the brief, for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

On complaint of the Fort Smith, Subiaco and Rock
Island Railroad Company, called the "Subiaco," against
the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company and 353 other carriers by rail, the Interstate Commerce Commission made
an order establishing through routes for westbound freight
traffic over the Subiaco. The Missouri Pacific brought this
suit against the United States to set aside the order. U. S.
C., Tit. 28, §§ 46, 48. The Interstate Commerce Commission and the Subiaco intervened. § 212, Judicial Code,
The District Court, composed of three judges, (U. S. C.,
Tit. 28, § 47) held that the Commission was without power
to establish the routes and entered its decree granting the
relief prayed. The United States and the intervenors
join in. this appeal. § 47, supra.
The sole question is whether the Commission is authorized by the Interstate Commerce Act to establish the
routes complained of.
Paragraph (3) of § 15 provides: "The Commission
may, and it shall, whenever deemed by it to be necessary
or desirable in the public interest . . . establish through
routes ... applicable to the transportation of . .. property . . ." Paragraph (4) of that section provides: "In
27228-29-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

establishing any such through route the Commission shall
not (except as provided in section 3, and except where one
of the carriers is a water line), require any carrier by railroad, without its consent, to embrace in such route substantially less than the entire length .of its railroad . . .
which lies between the termini of such proposed through
route, unless such inclusion of lines would make the
through route unreasonably long as compared with
another practicable through route which could otherwise
be established. . . ." U. S. C., Tit. 49.
The entire line of the Subiaco is in Arkansas. It is 40
miles long and extends from Paris, where it connects with
a branch-line of the Missouri Pacific, easterly to Dardanelle, where it meets a branch of the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railway Company, extending southerly 14
miles to junction with the east and west main line of that
company at Ola. The Subiaco has not been able to earn
dividends, and has long sought to increase earnings by
having its line made a part of through routes for interstate traffic not beginning or ending thereon.
In a proceeding initiated by the Subiaco against the
Arkansas Central, whose line later became the Paris
branch of the Missouri Pacific, the Commission, .February 12, 1924, declared that such routes would be in the
public interest, but dismissed the case for lack of proper
parties defendant. 87 I. C. C. 617. The Subiaco filed a
new complaint that alleged need of more revenue to enable
the company to continue operations and prayed for the
establishment of through westbound routes via Little
Rock, Ola, Dardanelle and Paris. The Commission, Division 4, October 23, 1925, found that the company was
earning a surplus over operating expenses and taxes and
that on the showing there was no ground for abandonment
of the line. The report shows that traffic to move over
the proposed route must come from other carriers; that
the Missouri Pacific, then probably not earning a fair

UNITED STATES v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
269

Opinion of the Court.

return, would be the principal loser, and that revenue
diverted from it would largely exceed the amount that
would go to the Subiaco. The Division reversed the
earlier finding and dismissed the complaint. 102 I. C. C.
708. The case was reopened and upon further consideration the Commission, March 2, 1926, one of its members
dissenting and two others not participating, found the
proposed route desirable in the public interest, and made
the order here in controversy. 107 I. C. C. 523.
It directs defendants to establish and maintain through
routes westbound over the Subiaco via Ola, Dardanelle
and Paris between points of origin and destination named
in certain tariffs, which include places between which lie
certain lines of the Missouri Pacific. The order contains
a proviso: "That this order shall not be construed as requiring any defendant to participate in any through
route . . . which would require it to surrender possession
of traffic which it has originated or received from a connecting carrier to another carrier for transportation over
a route which embraces less than the entire length of such
defendant's railroad . . . which lies between the termini
of such route."
The Missouri Pacific has a main line that extends from
Little Rock to Fort Smith and points west. It also has
lines connecting Little Rock with Mississippi River crossings at East Saint Louis, Saint Louis, Cairo, Memphis,
Natchez and New Orleans. Thus, that company provides
routes for traffic originating at these places and also a
link in through routes for traffic originating east of the
Mississippi on other lines and moving through these gateways to Fort Smith, points on the Paris branch, or points
on or reached by its line extending west from Fort Smith.
In each of the existing routes, the Missouri Pacific has
the haul from the Mississippi to Fort Smith and points on
its lines extending through that place.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

There is no finding that any of these routes is too long
or that the traffic covered by the order would be handled
more advantageously over the proposed route. The situation in respect of all may be illustrated by the route from
or via Memphis to Fort Smith and beyond. Memphis is
on the east bank of the Mississippi, about due east from
Little Rock, which is at the geographical center of Arkansas. Fort Smith is near and some distance north of the
middle of the west boundary of the State. The order
would compel the Missouri Pacific to use its Paris branch
to establish a route to compete with those in which it has
much longer hauls. The new route would give it a haul
not more than the length of the Paris branch as against
those over its lines from its Mississippi gateways to or
beyond Fort Smith. Its haul from Memphis to Fort
Smith is 308 miles.
The main line of the Rock Island extends from Memphis
to Little Rock, thence a little south of west via Ola to
points west of Arkansas. Its rails do not extend to Fort
Smith, but its traffic reaches that place via Mansfield and
also via Wister over the lines of the Saint Louis-San
Francisco Railway and also via Howe over the Kansas
City Southern Railway. There is no suggestion that the
proposed through route is the only one available to shippers or that without it they would be limited to lines of
the Missouri Pacific for transportation from Memphis or
from its other Mississippi gateways to Fort Smith. Under
the order complained of, the Rock Island would haul 222.3
miles from Memphis to Dardanelle, the Subiaco 40.3 miles
from Dardanelle to Paris, and the Missouri Pacific 46.1
miles from Paris to Fort Smith. Thus the route ordered
gives the Missouri Pacific a haul of only 46 miles, while
the existing route gives it 308.
The Act does not give the Commission authority to
establish all the through routes it may deem necessary
or desirable in the public interest. The general language

UNITED STATES v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
269

Opinion of the Court.

of paragraph (3) is limited by paragraph (4). The latter
lays down the rule that, subject to specified exceptions,
a carrier may not be compelled to participate in a through
route which does not include substantially its entire line
lying between the termini of the route. The purpose is
to protect the long haul routes of carriers. It is clear that,
within the meaning of paragraph (4), the mileage of the
Missouri Pacific, between its Mississippi River crossings
and Fort Smith lies between the termini of all routes
through or from such gateways westbound over the line
of the Subiaco. The existing routes include these Missouri
Pacific lines and give that company long hauls as compared with the length of the Paris branch. The latter
is the only line of the company included in the Subiaco
route. The order is plainly repugnant to the rule prescribed by that paragraph. And, as neither § 3 nor water
transportation is involved and existing routes were not
found unreasonably long, the proposed route is not within
the exceptions specified in that paragraph.
The appellants oppose the application of paragraph (4)
according to its terms and insist that it should not be
construed to cover all routes which short haul the carrier,
but only those which deprive the carrier of its long haul
after it has obtained possession of the traffic. The proviso
contained in the order, reflecting that view, falls far short
of protecting the carrier's long haul routes as contemplated
by paragraph (4). The language of that provision is so
clear and its meaning so plain that no difficulty attends
its construction in this case. Adherence to its terms leads
to nothing impossible or plainly unreasonable. We are
therefore bound by the words employed and are not at
liberty to conjure up conditions to raise doubts in order
that resort may be had to construction. It is elementary
that where no ambiguity exists there is no room for construction. Inconvenience or hardships, if any, that result from following the statute as written must be relieved

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

by legislation. It is for Congress to determine whether the
Commission should have more authority in respect of the
establishment of through routes. Construction may not
be substituted for legislation. United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat, 76, 95-96. United States v. Fisher, 2
Cranch 358, 386. Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662,
670. Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470. Ex
parte Public National Bank, ante, p. 101. United States
v. Colorado & N. W. R. Co., 157 Fed. 321, 327.
Appellants seek to support the view for which they contend by some of the legislative history of the enactment
and especially by explanatory statements made by Senator
Elkins in connection with the report of the majority of
the Senate committee submitting the bill for the Act in
question. Where doubts exist and construction is permissible, reports of the committees of Congress and statements by those in charge of the measure and other like
extraneous matter may be taken into consideration to aid
in the ascertainment of the true legislative intent. But
where the language of an enactment is clear and construction according to its terms does not lead to absurd or impracticable consequences, the words employed are to be
taken as the final expression of the meaning intended.
And in such cases legislative history may not be used to
support a construction that adds to or takes from the significance of the words employed. United Stlates v. Freight
Ass'n, 166 U. S.. 290, 325. Pennsylvania R. R. v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184, 199. Mackenzie v. Hare.
239 U. S. 299, 308. Caminetti v. United States, supra,
490.
But the reasons for and the significant circumstances
leading up to the enactment may be noticed in confirmation of the meaning conveyed by the words used. Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, 19, 21. Oceanic.
Navigiation Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320, 333. Northern Pacific Ry. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370, 380. Mc-

UNITED STATES v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
269

Opinion of the Court.

Lean v. United States, 226 U. S. 374, 381. Appellants'
construction is not supported by the legislative history,
reference to which is printed in the margin,* but, all
essential parts considered, it strengthens the conclusion
that the words used express the purpose intended to be
given effect.
And appellants assert that the Commission in a long
line of decisions has held, that the rule declared in paragraph (4) applies only to traffic in possession of the carriers, and they argue that this construction was impliedly
sanctioned by the inclusion of the provision without alteration in Transportation Act, 1920. But the rule that reSee:
Sec. 4, Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat 589, in force until the enactment of paragraph (4) of § 15 here involved.
Northern Pacific Ry. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, decided
in U. S. Circuit Court for Minnesota, June 5, 1909, affirmed in this
Court, March 7,1910. 216 U. S. 538.
Report of Interstate Commerce Commission, Dec. 21, 1909, House
Documents, Vol. 111, No. 148, pp. 7, 38.
President's Special Message, Jan. 7, 1910. Messages and Papers of
the Presidents, Vol. X, pp. 7821, 7826.
Statement in behalf of Interstate Commerce Commission by its
Chairman, Honorable Martin A. Knapp. Hearing on S. 3776 and
5106, 61st Congress, 2nd Session, p. 205, found in: Hearings before
Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, 1906-12, vol. 15, Various
Subjects. Also his statement before Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce, House of Representatives, printed in Hearings on
Bills affecting Interstate Commerce, part 20, 1910, pp. 1174, 1178.
Statement of Senator Elkins above referred to. Congressional Record, 61st Congress, 2nd Session, pp. 3475 and 3476.
In connection with the re-enactment of § 15 (4) in Transportation
Act, 1920, see:
Statement of Mr. Ben B. Cain, Vice President, American Short Line
Association, before House of Representatives Committee on Interstate
and Foreign Commerce. Hearings, 1919-1920, "Return of Railroads
*to Private Ownership." Vol. 232-3, pp. 1860, 1880. Also statement
of Honorable Edgar E. Clark, member of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, pp. 2857, 2868, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

enactment of a statute after it has been construed by officers charged with its enforcement impliedly adopts the
construction applies only when the construction is not
plainly erroneous and to cases presenting the precise conditions passed on prior to the re-enactment. New Haven
R. R. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 200 U. S. 361, 401.
The rule has no application in this case because, the decisions by the Commission do not show that it had given
paragraph (4) the limited effect claimed by appellants;
the order here involved conflicts with that provision;
and, if any prior decision of the Commission held that the
Act empowered it to establish a through route substantially like the one under consideration, that construction
was plainly erroneous and did not attach to or become a
part of the provision re-enacted.
Appellants also claim that decisions by the Commission
before and since the re-enactment established a settled interpretation which should be given controlling weight in
support of the order in question. It has been held in
many cases that a definitely settled administrative construction is entitled to the highest respect; and, if acted
on for a number of years, such construction will not be disturbed except for cogent reasons. See e. g. Logan v. Davis,
233 U. S. 613, 627. But the court is not bound by a
construction so established. Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore Co., 253 U.. S. 97, 99. United States v.
Dickson, 15 Pet. 141, 161. The rule does not apply in
cases where the construction is not doubtful. And if such
interpretation has not been uniform, it is not entitled to
such respect or weight, but will be taken into account only
to the extent that it is supported by valid reasons. Brown
v. United States, 113 U. S. 568, 571. Merritt v. Cameron,
137 U. S. 542, 551-552. United States v. Alabama Railroad Co., 142 U. S. 615, 621. United States v. Healey, 160
U. S. 136, 145. Studebaker v. Perry, 184 U. S. 258, 268.
Houghton v. Payne, 194 U. S. 88, 99.

UNITED STATES v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
269

Opinion of the Court.

Moreover, after careful consideration of the Commission's decisions, aided by elaborate arguments of counsel,
we are unable to find that there has been established any
settled interpretation of paragraph (4) in respect of the
question presented here. Most of the cases cited differ
widely from this one. Some decisions oppose the construction for which appellants contend. C. & C. Traction
Co. v. B. & 0. S. W. R. R. Co., 20 I. C. C. 486. Investigation of Alleged UnreasonableRates on Meats, 23 I. C. C.
656. Chamber of Commerce v. N. Y. C. & H. R. Co., 24 I.
C. C. 55. Hayden Bros. Corp'n v. D. & S. L. R. R., 39 I.
C. C. 94, 104. This case before Division 4, 102 I. C. C.
708. Wilgus v. P. R. R. Co., 113 I. C. C. 617. Many
deal only with the right of the original or initiating carrier to have its long haul of traffic in possession and in
through routes in which its line is included, and give no
support to the contention that intermediate and delivering carriers are not within the protection of paragraph
(4). Appellants rely on Waverly Oil Works Co. v. P. R.
R. Co., 28 I. C. C. 621, and consider it the leading case and
foundation of the line of decisions on which they rely.
In that case, there was complaint against charges exacted
for switching to and from industries on the Pennsylvania
Railroad in Pittsburgh when the shipper desired to move its
traffic from that place over other lines. The Commission
did not fix such charges, but held that it had power to
establish joint rates from any point on such terminals,
where traffic was received by the Pennsylvania, to a point
on any connecting line and vice versa. In the course of
its report, the Commission illustrated the practical application of the statute where a through route is made up of
two overlapping lines. It is manifest that, without back
hauling, each could not have its long haul. And that
was shown by a diagram in the report. P. 630. The
Commission held that in such circumstances the carrier
that initiates and has possession of the traffic is entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

to its long haul and, by way of example, pointed out that
the Pennsylvania would have the long haul on traffic originating on its terminals in Pittsburgh destined to a point
on the Baltimore & Ohio terminals in Baltimore, and that
the latter would have the long haul on traffic originating
on its terminals at Baltimore and destined to a point on
the Pennsylvania terminals at Pittsburgh. Plainly, that
case is not similar to this. The construction for which
appellants contend is indicated in these cases. First case
in this controversy, 87 I. C. C. 617. Flory Milling Co. v.
C. N. E. Ry. Co., 93 I. C. C. 129. This case, 107 I. C. C.
523. Port of New York Authority v. A. T. & S. F. Ry.
Co., 144 I. C. C. 514. Stickell & Sons v. W. M. Ry. Co.,
146 I. C. C. 609.
Analysis of the decisions in detail is not necessary and
would not be justified. It is enough to say that they have
not been uniform and do not establish any settled interpretation that is applicable here. The construction of
paragraph (4) in this case is free from doubt.
Decree affirmed.
BOTANY WORSTED MILLS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 31.

Submitted April 23, 1928. Argued November 20, 1928.Decided January 2, 1929.

1. No compromise of tax claims is authorized by § 3229 Rev. Stats.
which is not assented to by the Secretary of the Treasury. P. 288.
2. When a statute limits a thing to be done in a particular mode, it
includes the negative of any other mode. P. 289.
3. The taxpayer filed a return of its net income for 1917 under the
Revenue Act of 1916, and paid a tax computed on the basis of this
return. An audit of the taxpayer's books disclosed the necessity
of an additional assessment, and after much correspondence and
numerous conferences with subordinate officials of the Bureau of

