130

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

grant, as would have been the case in Terrace v. Thompson, supra, had the business of farming been deemed an
incident to the business of trading in farm products.
The principle of liberal construction of treaties would
be nullified if a grant of enumerated privileges were held
not to include the use of the usual methods and instrumentalities of their exercise. Especially would this be the
case where the granted privileges relate to trade and
commerce and the use of land for commercial purposes.
It would be difficult to select any single agency of more
universal use or more generally recognized as a usual and
appropriate means of carrying on commerce and trade
than the business corporation. And it would, we think,
be a narrow interpretation indeed which, in the absence
of restrictive language, would lead to the conclusion that
the Treaty had secured to citizens of Japan the privilege
of engaging in a particular business, but had denied to
them the privilege of conducting that business in corporate form. But here any possibility of doubt would
seem to be removed by the clause which confers on citizens and subjects of the High Contracting Parties the
right "... to do anything generally incident to or necessary for trade upon the same terms as native citizens
or subjects, submitting themselves to the laws and regulations there established."
Affirmed.
PACIFIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. PETERSON,
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 49.

Argued October 24, 1928.-Decided November 26, 1928.

1. Under § 20 of the Seamen's Act, as amended by § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act, which provides that any seaman who shall
suffer personal injury in the course of his employment may, "at
his election" maintain an action for damages at law, etc., an action to recover compensatory damages for an injury due to the

PACIFIC CO. v. PETERSON.
130

Argument for Petitioner.

negligene of another member of the crew may be maintained by
the injured seaman against his employer although the seaman has
demanded and received of the employer the maintenance, cure and
wages accorded in such cases by the old aamiralty rules. Pp. 134138.
2. The right to maintenance, cure and wages under the old admiralty
rules is a contractual right, cumulative to and not inconsistent
with, or an alternative of, the new right to recover compensatory
damages for injuries caused by negligence. P. 136.
3. A general expression in an opinion concerning a particular aspect
or effect of a statute, as to which no question was raised in the
case, will not control judgment in a subsequent suit presenting the
very point for decision, nor prevent the determination as an original
question of the proper onstruction of the statut* in that particular. P. 136.
145 Wash. 460, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 276 U. S. 612, to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Washington affirming a recovery of damages by a
seaman from the owner of his ship, in an action for personal injuries occasioned by the negligence of the ship's
mate.

Mr. W. Carr Corrow, with whom Messrs. Benjamin S.
Grosscup and J. 0. Davies were on the brief, for petitioner.
On the construction of the Act, see Panama Ry. Co. v.
Johnson, 264 U. S. 375; Engel v. Davenport, 271 U. S. 33;
Baltimore S. S. Co. v. Phillips,274 U. S. 316; Kuhlman v.
Fletcher Co., 20 F. (2d) 465; Lorang v. Alaska S. S. Co.,
298 Fed. 547; Wagstaff v. United States, 281 Fed. 877;
Hughes v. Alaska S. S. Co., 287 Fed. 427; Rosinski v.
Conners, 21 F. (2d) 591.
On what constitutes an election, see Robb v. Vos, 155
U. S. 13; 12 C. J. 336; The Santa Barbara,263 Fed. 369;
The Bouker, No. 2, 241 Fed. 831; The Balsa, 10 F. (2d)
408.
The construction placed upon this statute by the Supreme Court of Washington, which requires a ship-owner
to pay full compensation under both the old rules and the
new, would render the statute unconstitutional. Such a

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

construction is to be avoided. Gulf, etc. Ry. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150.
A seaman may not bring more than one action under
the old rules to recover his full compensation for an injury
received, splitting a cause of action. Cf. Baltimore S. S.
Co. v. Phillips,supra.
Mr. Harry E. Foster, with whom Mr. Melville Monheimer was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Peterson, a seaman, brought an action at law in a Superior Court of Washington against his employer, the Pacific Steamship Co., the owner of a domestic merchant
vessel on which he was serving, to recover damages for
personal injuries suffered at sea on a voyage between the
ports of Puget Sound and California.
The complaint charged that the injury resulted from
the negligence of the mate of the vessel--there being no
charge that the vessel was unseaworthy-and based the
right of action expressly on § 20 of the Seamen's Act of
1915,1 as amended by § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act
of 1920.2 This provides: "That any seaman who shall
suffer personal injury in the course of his employment
may, at his election, maintain an action for damages at
law, with the right of trial by jury, and in such action all
statutes of the United States modifying or extending the
common law right or remedy in cases of personal injury to
railway employees shall apply." '
The Company, in its answer, not only denied the averments of negligence, but alleged, generally, in Par. 2,
'38 Stat. 1164, c. 153.
Stat. 988, c. 250; U. S. C., Tit. 46, § 688.
8A like right of action is given to the personal representative of
any seaman whose death results from such personal injury.
2 41

PACIFIC CO. v. PETERSON.
130

Opinion of the Court.

"that long prior to the commencement of plaintiff's action
set out in his said complaint, the plaintiff elected to
receive wages to the end of the voyage, and maintenance
and cure for any injuries which he received on said voyage; and the plaintiff has received his wages to the end of
the voyage and has received maintenance and cure for any
injury received, and received the same prior to the filing
of his said complaint herein, and he cannot now maintain an action under the Jones Act, or any other act, for
damages for any injuries received upon the voyage ": and
" for further answer and affirmative defense " alleged, particularly, in Par. 3, that as soon as the vessel arrived at
San Francisco the plaintiff was removed from the vessel
by the defendant and conveyed to the Marine Hospital
for maintenance and cure; that he "has received from the
defendant at said hospital maintenance and cure as far as
medical and surgical attention can reasonably effect a
cure," and also received his wages from the defendant to
the end of the voyage, aggregating $41.10, prior to the
commencement of the suit; and that "plaintiff in accepting said wages to the end of the voyage and in permitting
defendant to take him to said Marine Hospital . . . and
in consenting to go thereto for maintenance and cure for
the injuries he received, elected to take compensation for
said injury under the general admiralty and maritime law
in such cases made and provided, and he has been fully
and completely compensated by defendant for said injuries
under the said general admiralty and maritime law, and
the plaintiff made said election to accept compensation
and received the same under the general'admiralty and
maritime law long prior to the filing of this suit and the
plaintiff cannot now elect to sue or maintain this action,
for damages under section 20 of the act of congress of
March 4, 1915, as amended by section 33 of the Act of
June 5th, 1920, known as the Jones Act."
The court, on the plaintiff's motion, struck from the
answer the allegations in Par. 2; and also sustained a

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

demurrer interposed by the plaintiff to the "affirmative
defense" in Par. 3 on the ground that it did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense to the action. The case
proceeded to trial, and the plaintiff had verdict and judgment. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State. 145 Wash. 460. A petition for a writ of
certiorari, directed solely to the rulings as to the right to
maintain the suit under § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act,
was then granted.
By the general maritime law of the United States prior
to the Merchant Marine Act, a vessel and her owner were
liable, in case a seaman fell sick, or was wounded in the
service of the ship, to the extent of his maintenance and
cure, whether the injuries were received by negligence or
accident, and of his wages, at least so long as the voyage
was continued, and were liable to an indemnity for injuries received by a seaman in consequence of the unseaworthiness of the ship and her appliances; but a seaman
was not allowed to recover an indemnity for injuries sustained through the negligence of the master or any member of the crew. The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 380; Carlisle
Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259 U. S. 255, 258.
By § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act, as heretofore construed, the prior maritime law of the United States was
modified by giving to seamen injured through negligence
the rights given to railway employees by the Employers
Liability Act of 1908 and its amendments, and permitting
these new substantive rights to be asserted and enforced
in actions in personam against the employers in federal
or state courts administering common-law remedies, with
the right of trial by jury, or in suits in admiralty in
courts administering maritime remedies, without trial by
4 Department 2 of the Supreme Court; petition for rehearing denied
by the Court en banc.

PACIFIC CO. v. PETERSON.
130

Opinion of the Court.

jury. Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U: S. 375; Engel
v. Davenport, 271 U. S. 33; PanamaR. R. v. Vasquez, 271
U. S. 557; Baltimore S. S. Co. v. Phillips, 274 U. S. 316.
The defendant contends, on the one hand, that this statute gives-an injured seaman the new right of action for
damages merely as an alternative right to those provided
by the old maritime rules, which he may enforce " at
his election," thereby requiring him to elect whether he
will proceed for the recovery of maintenance, cure, wages,
and indemnity under the old maritime rules, or for the recovery of damages under the new rule; and hence that
if he demands and receives from the employer maintenance, cure and wages under the old maritime rules, he is
bound by that as an election and cannot thereafter maintain an action for damages under the statute.
The plaintiff contends, on the other hand, that the
words "at his election" as used in the statute, refer, at
the most, to an election between an action for compensatory damages, on the ground of negligence, under the
new rule, and the inconsistent action for indemnity or
compensatory damages on the ground of unseaworthiness,
under the old maritime rules; and not to an election between an action for damages under the new rule and the
consistent and cumulative remedy for maintenance, cure
and wages under the old rules.
We pass without determination the question whether
the affirmative allegations of fact in the answer, as distinguished from the conclusions of the pleader, show that the
plaintiff had in fact demanded or received maintenance
and cure from the defendant, or had merely acquiesced
in being taken by the defendant to the Marine Hospital
and there receiving from the United States, without expense to himself or to the defendant, maintenance and
treatment as a disabled seaman; and we proceed to the
determination of the sole question argued by counsel,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

that is, wheiher, if the plaintiff had demanded and received maintenance, cure and wages from the defendant,
this constituted an election which prevented him from
thereafter maintaining a suit for compensatory damages
under the statute.
It was stated, in general terms, in PanamaR. R. Co. v.
Johnson, supra, at p. 388, that the statute "extends to
injured seamen. a right to invoke, at their election, either
the relief accorded by the old rules or that provided by
the new rules. The election is between alternatives accorded by the maritime law as modified . . ."

And see

Engel v. Davenport, supra, at p. 36. But this general
statement does not define the scope of the election or the
precise alternativ e accorded-a question which was not
involved or discussed in either of these cases. And while
an incidental statement in the Engel case, at p. 36, if
taken broadly, might well be understood to mean that the
right to recover compensatory damages under the new
rule was granted as an alternative to the allowances
covered by the old rules, including maintenance, cure and
wages, this was at the most a general expression respecting a particular as to which no question was raised-no
allowance for maintenance, cure and wages being there
involved-which ought not to control the judgment in
a subsequent suit when the very point is presented for
decision, Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399, Downes v.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 258, Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, 219
U. S. 380, 394, Bailey v. Baker Ice Machine Co., 239
U. S. 268, 272, or to prevent the determination as an original question of the proper construction of the statute in
that particular. See United States v. Corbett, 215 U. S.
233, 239.
What then were the "alternatives " accorded to an injured seaman by the maritime law, as modified, between
which the statute grants him an election? Plainly, we
think, the right under the new rule to compensatory dam-

PACIFIC CO. v. PETERSON.
130

Opinion of the Court.

ages for injuries caused by negligence is not an alternative
of the right under the old rule to maintenance, cure and
wages-which arises, quite independently of negligence,
when the seaman falls sick or is injured in the service of
the ship, and grows out of that which was termed in The
Montezuma (C. C. A.), 19 F. (2d) 355, 356, the "personal indenture" created by the relation of the seaman
to his vessel. In Harden v. Gordon, 2 Mason 541, 11 Fed.
Cas. 480, 481-cited with apparent approval in the Osceola case, at p. 172-Mr. Justice Story said that a claim
for the expenses of curing a seaman in case of sickness
"constitutes, in contemplation of law, a part of the contract for wages, and is a material ingredient in the compensation for the labour and services of the seamen."
And in The A. Heaton (C. C.), 43 Fed. 592, 595, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, said that the right of a
seaman to receive his wages to the end of the voyage and
to be cured at the ship's expense, being "grounded solely
upon the benefit which the ship derives from his service,
and having no regard to the question whether his injury
has been caused by the fault of others or by mere accident,
does not extend to compensation or allowance for the
effects of the injury; but it is in the nature of an additional privilege, and not of a substitute for or a restriction
of other rights and remedies," and "does not, therefore,
displace or affect the right of the seaman to recover against
the master or owners for injuries by their unlawful or
negligent acts." Thus, it has been held that claims for
maintenance, cure and wages, and for indemnity for injuries occasioned by unseaworthiness, may be demanded
and recovered in the same proceeding, Roebling's Sons
Co. v. Erickson (C. C. A.), 261 Fed. 986, 988; that a recovery in one proceeding for wages and maintenance does
not preclude the recovery in a subsequent proceeding of
indemnity for injuries resulting from unseaworthiness,
The Rolph (C. C. A.), 299 Fed. 52, 55; and that there is

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

no inconsistency between the right to recover compensatory damages under the new rule for injuries caused by
negligence and the right to recover maintenance, cure and
wages under the old rules, the remedies not being of such
a nature that the adoption of one is a repudiation or negation of the other, Lippman v. Romich (C. C. A.), 26 F.
(2d) 601, 602. In short, the right to maintenance, cure
and wages, implied in law as a contractual obligation
arising out of the nature of the employment, is independent of the right to indemnity or compensatory damages
for an injury caused by negligence; and these two rights
are consistent and cumulative.
The right to recover compensatory damages under the
new rule for injuries caused by negligence is, however,
an alternative of the right to recover indemnity under
the old rules on the ground that the injuries were occasioned by unseaworthiness; and it is between these two
inconsistent remedies for an injury, both grounded on
tort, that we think an election is to be made under the
maritime law as modified by the statute. Unseaworthiness, as is well understood, embraces certain species of
negligence; while the statute includes several additional
species not embraced in that term. But, whether or not
the seaman's injuries were occasioned by the unseaworthiness of the vessel or by the negligence of the master or
members of the crew, or both combined, there is but a
single wrongful invasion of his primary right of bodily
safety and but a single legal wrong, Baltimore S. S. Co. v.
Phillips, supra, 321, for which he is entitled to but one
indemnity by way of compensatory damages.
Considered in the light of these several remedies and
the extent of the inconsistency between them, we agree
with the view expressed by the Supreme Court of Washington that the statute was not intended to restrict in
any way the long-established right of a seaman to mainte-

UNADILLA RY. CO. v. CALDINE.
130

Syllabus.

nance, cure and wages,-to which it made no reference.
And we conclude that the alternative measures of relief
accorded him, between which he is given an election, are
merely the right under the new rule to recover compensatory damages for injuries caused by negligence and the
right under the old rules to recover indemnity for injuries
occasioned by unseaworthiness; and that no election is
required between the right to recover compensatory damages for a tortious injury under the new rule and the contractual right to maintenance, cure and wages under the
old rules-the latter being a cumulative right in no sense
inconsistent with, or an alternative of, the right to recover compensatory damages.
It results that there was no error in the rulings as to
the affirmative defense interposed by the defendant. And
the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the result.

UNADILLA VALLEY RAILWAY COMPANY v. CALDINE, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 73.

Argued November 27, 1928.-Decided December 10, 1928.

A train arrived at a station where, by the express, printed rule of
the railroad company, it must be held to await the passing of
another train moving upon the same track in the opposite direction. The station agent had been informed by telephone that the
other train was coming, and there was some evidence that he told
the motorman of the first train, but he did not tell the conductor.
Disobeying the rule, the conductor ordered the motorman to proceed and, the latter obeying, a collision resulted by which the conductor was killed. In an action brought by his administrator

against the railroad company under the Employers' Liability Act,

