OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

There is nothing in the Constitution which lends support to the theory that gain actually resulting from the
increased value of capital can be treated as taxable income
in the hands of the recipient only so far as the increase
occurred while he owned the property. And Irwin v.
Gavit, 268 U. S. 161, 167, is to the contrary.
The judgments below are
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of these causes.
SALOMON

ET AL.

v. STATE TAX COMMISSION OF

NEW YORK.
SIMONSON
ERROR TO THE SURROGATES'

ET AL.

v. SAME.

COURT OF NEW YORK COUNTY,

STATE OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 79 and 80.

Argued November 28, 1928.-Decided February
18, 1929.

1. A state law imposing a graduated tax on the transfer of contingent
remainders measured by the value at the testator's death of the
estate transferred, undiminished by the value of the intervening
life estate, and requiring the executor to deposit security for the
payment of the tax, but postponing the definitive assessment and
the payment of the tax until after the death of the life tenantheld consistent with due process of law. P. 489.
2. The due process clause places no restriction on a State as to the
time at which an inheritance tax shall be levied or the property
valued for purposes of such tax. P. 490.
3. The graduation of the tax and the impossibility of forecasting
exactly the duration of life estates may cause a lack of equivalency
of tax burden as between a contingent remainder, when taxed
as above stated, and a like vested remainder when the tax on the
latter is based on its value separate from the intervening life estate
and is paid at the testator's death; but such differences do not
amount to an unjustifiable discrimination against the contingent
remainderman violative of the equal protection clause. Id.

SALOMON v. STATE TAX COMMISSION.
484

485

Opinion of the Court.

4. There are differences between vested and contingent remainders
which justify classification in imposing inheritance taxes. P. 491.
5. The fact that a state tax law is not the best that might be conceived and produces minor inequalities and hardships does not
render it invalid under the Constitution. Id.
Affirmed.

ERROR to judgments fixing transfer taxes, entered in
the Surrogates' Court of the County of New York, on
remittitur from the Court of Appeals, the latter court
having affirmed judgments of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division, which had affirmed the assessments as
originally made in the Surrogates' Court. See 127 Misc.
211; 219 App. Div. 656; 246 N. Y. 601, 602.

Mr. Charles Angulo, with whom Mr. Edmund 0.
Austin was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error in No. 79.
Mr. Abraham L. Gutman, with whom Mr. Win. V.
Goldberg was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error in No. 80.
Mr. Seth T. Cole for defendants in error.
Mr. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases, which were argued together, present the
question wheiher the provision in the New York Transfer
Law for taxing the transfer of contingent remainders violates the due process clause or the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. That statute imposes a
graduated succcession tax. On the transfer of life estates
and vested remainders the tax is measured by their respective values as of the testator's death and is payable
then. The tax on the transfer of contingent remainders is
not payable until the death of the life tenant; and it is
measured by the value at the testator's death of the estate
transferred, undiminished by the value of the intervening
life estate. For the due payment of the deferred tax the

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

executor must furnish adequate security. The amount
of the security is fixed by a temporary taxing order. Laws
of 1925, c. 144, §§ 230 and 241.
It will be sufficient to state the facts and proceedings in
the Salomon case. Meyer Hecht died in 1925 a resident
of New York. He bequeathed his residuary estate in
trust to his widow for life; and upon her death one equal
share thereof to each child then living and to the then
living issue per stirpes of each deceased child. The value
of the residue as of the testator's death was appraised at
$322,094.37. The then value of the widow's life estate
therein, computed according to the standard mortality
tables using five per cent interest, was appraised at $124,957; the tax then payable was assessed thereon; and no
objection is made thereto. If the future interests had
been vested remainders, the tax thereon would have
been payable then on an appraisal of $197,137.37; that is,
on the difference between the then value of the residue
and the then value of the life estate. The future interests
were all contingent. The tax was not payable until the
death of the life tenant. The temporary taxing order
appraised their aggregate value at the widow's death as
$322,094.37; that is, at the value of the residue undiminished by the value of the life estate. Security for the
future payment of the tax was required to be given as the
statute requires. An appeal from the appraisal was
denied by the Surrogate of New York County. Matter of
Hecht, 127 Misc. 211. His judgment was affirmed by the
Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, 219 App. Div.
656. Its judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
without opinion, 246 N. Y. 601, 602; and by the remittitur it became the judgment of the Surrogates' Court,
That judgment is final within the meaning of § 237 (a) of
the Judicial Code as amended by the Act of February 13,
1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936. Compare Wheeler v. Sohmer,
233 U. S. 434; Watson v. State Comptroller,254 U. S. 122.

SALOMON v. STATE TAX COMMISSION. 487
484

Opinion of the Court.

The constitutional claims were duly made below; and the
case is properly here.
The need of a peculiar provision for taxing the transfer
of contingent remainders arises from the fact that the
New York law imposes a graduated tax. The rates differ
according to the amount or value of the gift to the particular beneficiary and also according to his relationship to
the decedent. The lowest rate payable by a lineal descendant is one per cent, the highest four per cent. The
lowest rate payable by a stranger is five per cent, the
highest eight per cent. As the remainders are contingent, it is impossible to know before the contingency happens in whom the remainders will vest; and it may be
impossible to determine until then the relationship of the
beneficiaries to the testator and the portions of the estate
which they will respectively receive. Thus the rate of
taxation will remain uncertain. For this reason, the
statute postpones until the contingency happens both the
definitive assessment of the tax on the transfer of the
contingent remainders and the payment thereof. In respect to vested remainders, there is no obstacle to requiring both assessment and payment of this graduated tax as
of the testator's death. The amount of the tax can be
determined then; because it is known who the vested
remaindermen are, what the share of each is and what his
relationship to the testator was. And the value of the
remainders as of the testator's death is likewise known,
being the difference between the then value of the property transferred and the computed value of the life estate.
The need of a special provision for the taxation in
respect to contingent remainders and the reasonableness
of the particular measure adopted in 1925 appear from
the history of the legislation. Since the enactment of
the Transfer Tax Law in 1885 (Ch. 483), the aim of the
Legislature has been at all times to adopt a method of
laying the tax which would be fair to both the life tenant

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U.S.

and the future interest and would protect the revenues
of the State. From time to time, various methods for
doing this were tried. Experience revealed their defects.
Under the original law and the early amendments, the
transfers to contingent remaindermen were not taxable
upon the testator's death, Matter of Cager, 111 N. Y. 343.
They were taxable at the time when they vested in possession, Matter of Stewart, 131 N. Y. 274. And the tax
then payable was computed upon the value, as of the
testator's death, of the property transferred, less the value
of the intervening life estate, Matter of Sloane, 154 N. Y.
109. Under this method the revenue derived from the
tax on the contingent remainder was less than it would
have been had the remainder been a vested one. For
the State lost the benefit of the money during the period
intervening between the death of the testator and that
of the life tenant. To overcome this loss to the State
and the discrimination thereby in favor of the contingent
remaindermen, the Legislature provided by Chapter 284
of the Acts of 1897 that the tax payable on the vesting
of the contingent remainder should be measured by the
full value of the property as of the testator's death, without deducting the value of the intervening life estate,
Matter of Seligmann, 219 N. Y. 656. This statute, while
on its face eliminating the discrimination in favor of contingent remaindermen, was found to result in serious loss
of revenue to the State. Taxes escaped collection when
they became due, because it proved to be impossible to
ascertain currently when the contingencies happened and
hence when a tax became payable. To remedy this defect, it was provided by Chapter 76 of the Laws of 1899,
that the tax must be paid upon the testator's death; and
that it should then be paid out of the corpus of the estate
at the highest applicable rate, with a provision for paying
to the remainderman the surplus with interest if it should
prove that a lower rate was applicable, Matter of Vander-

SALOMON v. STATE TAX COMMISSION.
484

489

Opinion of the Court.

bilt, 172 N. Y. 69. This provision, while fully safeguarding the State's revenues, favored the remainderman at
the expense of the life tenant. Matter of Brez, 172 N. Y.
609. For under this provision the life tenant lost the
income on the full amount deducted to ensure payment
of the tax on the contingent remainder; and the remainderman received from the State with interest such part
thereof as proved not to be required for the ultimate payment of the tax. Thereupon some relief to the life tenant
was afforded by Chapter 800 of the Laws of 1911. But
it was not until the Act of 1925 here challenged provided
for appraisal of the remainder as stated, that the Legislature succeeded in devising a means of laying the tax which
operated justly as between life tenant and remaindermen
and safeguarded the State's revenues.
First. The contention that the method of taxation prescribed violates the due process clause rests upon the assertion that in measuring the transfer tax in respect to a
contingent remainder by the corpus of the trust fund
undiminished by the value of the intervening life estate,
something is taxed which does not exist. The argument is
that taxation even of an inheritance must be measured by
property taxable within the jurisdiction, Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473; that New York levies the tax on
the transfer of title from the testator, not on its value at
the time of the transfer of possession, Matter of Davis,
149 N. Y. 539; that the tax must, therefore, be measured
by what he transferred when he transferred it; that the
aggregate value of the parts transferred by the testator
cannot be greater than the value of the whole; but that
here the State lays a tax upon both the value of the life
interest and the undiminished value of the corpus.
The argument presented is unsound, because it ignores
the fact that the tax in respect to the contingent remainders is not payable until after the death of the life
tenant. The temporary taxing order, entered upon the

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

testator's death, is made solely to ensure that the tax so
deferred will be paid when ultimately assessed. The requirement may be satisfied by depositing with the State
either approved securities or cash. In either event the
income collected from the security prior to the time when
the tax becomes payable is accounted for to the executor;
and after the tax has been paid, the securities or cash
remaining on deposit will be accounted for to him. By
applying the applicable rate to the full value of that
which comes into enjoyment and not exacting payment of
the tax until then, a just result is sought. For the definitive assessment of the contingent remainder and the
payment of the tax thereon are postponed to the same
date. The due process clause places no restriction on a
State as to the time at which an inheritance tax shall be
levied or the property valued for purposes of such tax.
Compare Cahen v. Brewster, 203 U. S. 543.
Second. It is claimed that the tax violates the equal
protection clause. One contention is that it unjustifiably
discriminates between contingent and vested remainders
in that the value of the life estate is first deducted in
assessing the latter. It is true that an exact equivalency
is not always achieved, because the tax is graduated according to the value of the remainder. But since the
payment of the tax is postponed until the termination
of the life estate the present value of the tax will tend
to approximate what it would have been, if vested remainders had been given to the same persons and in the
same shares that eventually go to the contingent remaindermen-assuming, of course, that the same rate of
interest is used in making the calculation of both the
present value of the tax and the present value of the
future estate. It is true, also, that there is not an exact
equivalency, since life tenants do not die at the precise
termination of their life expectancies.. But this uncertainty underlies the taxation of all future interests, vested

SALOMON v. STATE TAX COMMISSION.
484

491

Opinion of the Court.

or contingent, wherever the tax is laid separately in respect
to life estates and remainders. The uncertainty is unavoidable unless the State concludes to postpone laying
the tax upon the remainders until they come into enjoyment, a course which it is not obliged to pursue. Moreover, there are differences between vested and contingent
remainders which justify classification in imposing inheritance taxes. Compare Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137,
141-143; Billings v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 97; Board of Education v. Illinois, 203 U. S. 553; Beers v. Glynn, 211 U. S.
477; Keeney v. New York, 222 U. S. 525.
Third. Several other reasons are urged why the statute
should be held obnoxious to the equality clause. It is
said that the tax being graduated according to amounts,
there will result from the use of mortality tables discrimination between members of the same class. It is
urged that since the tax is not collected until the termination of the life estate a more perfect equality would be
achieved by assessing the tax on the value of the remainder, after deducting the value of the life estate, and
allowing interest to the State for the actual known period
during which the tax was withheld. The fact that a
better taxing system might be conceived does not render
the law invalid. As was said in Metropolis Theatre Co. v.
Chicago, 228 U. S. 61, 69-70, "To be able to find fault
with a law is not to dem6nstrate its invalidity . . . The
problems of government are practical ones and may justify, if they do not require, rough accommodationsillogical, it may be, and unscientific." Further, it is said
that postponing payment of the tax will prove burdensome, because it involves giving security to ensure the
deferred payment; and that where the security is given
by the deposit of cash, the income earned thereon will
probably be less than would have been earned if the
money had been otherwise employed. To all such objections it may be answered that minor inequalities and

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

hardships are incidents of every system of taxation and
do not render the legislation obnoxious to the Federal
Constitution.1 General American Tank Car Corp. v.
Day, 270 U. S. 367.
Whether the State's power to tax the privilege of taking
by will or descent property within its jurisdiction is in any
way limited by the Fourteenth Amendment has not been
argued. As we are of opinion that none of the objections
urged can be sustained, we have no occasion to consider
that question. Compare Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137,
140.
Affirmed.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MIX ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 118.

Argued January 10, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

1. A railroad company engaged in interstate commerce cannot oe
subjected to an action in a state court entailing a burden upon or an
obstruction of its interstate commerce, brought under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act without its consent in a State where
the cause of action did not arise and where the company has no
railroad and where it has not been admitted to do business and
transacts none other than the soliciting of freight for transportation in interstate commerce over itslines in other States. P. 494.
2. The mere fact that the plaintiff acquired a residence in the State
of suit after the cause of action arose and before commencing the
action, does not take the case out of this rule. P. 495.
See, also, State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S.575, 612; Bell's Gap
R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.232; Merchant's Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461, 464; Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings
Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Travellers' Insurance Co. v. Connecticut, 185
U. S. 364; Beers v. Glynn, 211 U. S.477, 485; Citizens' Telephone
Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 331; Northwestern Life Insurance Co. v.
Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132, 137, 141; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S.
525, 543; Southern Ry. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S.519, 526.

