OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Respondent.

278 U. S.

STATE HIGHWAY COMMISSION OF WYOMING v.
UTAH CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 96.

Argued December 6, 1928.-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. Suit against the State Highway Commission and its members on a
road construction contract executed by it in the name and on behalf
of the State, held in effect a suit against the State. P. 199.
2. The District Court can have no jurisdiction on the ground of
diverse citizenship of a suit against a State. P. 200
23 F. (2d) 638, reversed; 16 id. 322 (District Court), affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 277 U. S. 580, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversing a judgment of the District
Court which dismissed for want of jurisdiction an action
on a contract.

Mr. Marion A. Kline, with whom Messrs. Win. 0.
Wilson, James A. Greenwood, and John Dillon were on
the brief, fo' petitioner.
Mr. Benjamin S. Crow, with whom Messrs. John W.
Lacey, Herbert Lacey, and W. L. Walls were on the brief,
for respondent.
The contract is not by its terms a contract between the
plaintiff and the State. The commission has no authority
to contract in any other name than its own. Wyoming
Comp. Stats. 1920, c. 186. It will be presumed to have
contracted in an authorized manner. Sloan Shipyard
Co. v. U. S. Shipping Board, 258 U. S. 549.
The recital that it acts in a representative capacity
will not operate to bind any other than itself. Ohio v.
Swift & Co., 270 Fed. 141.
The contract, moreover, has abundant internal evidence that the Commission was the contracting party.
The supplemental agreement confirms this.

HIGHWAY COMM. v. UTAH CO.
194

Argument for Respondent.

Whether the State is the real party defendant should
not be controlled by the rule laid down for ascertaining
the application of the Eleventh Amendment. The State
has waived its immunity by consenting that the suit
may be brought, i. e., that the Commission may sue and
be sued. The Eleventh Amendment was enacted in response to the public clamor over the decision in Chisholm
v. Georgia. Hans v. Louisihna, 134 U. S.1. The Amendment has therefore been given a liberal construction with
the view of protecting the State's immunity. Regan v.
FarmersLoan & Trust Co., 154U. S.362.
But ยง 24 of the Judicial Code has been given. a broad
and liberal construction with a view of upholding the
Court's jurisdiction. Those acting in a representative
capacity, when authorized to sue or be sued, stand upon
their own citizenship irrespective of the citizenship of the
persons they represent, whose rights or property are involved. The citizenship of the parties to the record
governs.
The fact that the Commission is a mere agency, or arm,
of the State formed to perform a governmental function,
does not prevent its suing or being sued in its own right
and name, if it is a legal entity.
That the Commission has no funds or property out of
which a judgment rendered against it may be satisfied, if
such be the fact, does not render the Commission any the
less a party to the action, which it must defend in its own
right where suit against it in its own name is expressly
authorized. If there are no funds or property of the Commission which can be reached it will be presumed that the
legislature which authorized it to be sued, will eventually
supply it with funds to satisfy any judgments rendered
against it.
But the Commission has, or may have, property out of
which the judgment may be defrayed. Also, the so-called
State Highway fund is not strictly a state fund. It is sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

ject to the disposal of the Commission and is set apart
for it.
Having established the Commission as a body in its
nature suable, the Legislature of Wyoming could not, by
its amendment to ยง 3025 of the statute, restrict jurisdiction to its own courts and thus abridge the jurisdiction
of the federal courts.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Prior to 1916. the State of Wyoming could not engage
in works-of internal improvement unless specially authorized by popular vote. During that year the following sec-.
tion was added to Article XVI of her Constitution:
"Sec. 9. State highway construction. The provision
of Section 6 of Article XVI of this constitution prohibiting the state from engaging in any work of internal improvement unless authorized by a two-thirds vote of the
people shall not apply to or affect the construction or
improvement of public roads and highways; but the legislature shall have power to provide for the construction
and improvement of public roads and highways in whole
or in part by the state, either directly or by extending
aid to counties."
In 1919 the Legislature passed the State Highway Act,
Session Laws 1919, Ch. 132, which directed:
That there shall be a Highway Department consisting
of a Commission of five members, and a superintendent.
The " Commission shall have the power to sue in the name
of the State Highway Commission of Wyoming, and may
be sued by such name in any court upon any contract
executed by it." All roads, the cost of which is paid from
the State Highway Fund, shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications prepared by the Highway Superintendent and shall be performed by or under

HIGHWAY COMM. v. UTAH CO.
194

Opinion of the Court.

contracts approved and awarded by the Commission. Except as otherwise specified" construction and maintenance
of all State Highways, including bridges and culverts
thereon, shall be performed at the expense of the State
and by and under the supervision of the commission and
"A State Highway
State Highway Superintendent."
Fund is created, to be in the custody and keeping of the
State Treasurer," and payments therefrom shall be on
warrants based upon vouchers by the Highway Superintendent.
The original act was amended in 1927 so as to provide"The commission shall have the power to sue in the name
of 'The State Highway Commission of Wyoming' and
may be sued by such name in the courts of this state and
in no other jurisdiction upon any contract executed by it."
By a contract dated June 1st, 1922, "between the State
of Wyoming, acting through the State Highway Commission, and Utah Construction Company, a corporation, of
Ogden, in the State of Utah, hereinafter called the Contractor," the parties undertook:-That the contractor, at
its own 'cost should do all work and furnish all labor,
materials, and tools, " except such as are mentioned in the
specifications to be furnished by the State of Wyoming,"
and construct a designated highway. "The State of
Wyoming shall pay and the Contractor shall receive and
accept as full compensation for everything furnished and
done by the Contractor under this contract and also for
all loss or damage arising out of the nature of the work,
the action of the elements or from any unforseen contingencies or difficulties encountered in the prosecution of the
work, the prices stipulated in the proposal." "Time
shall be of the essence of this contract," and for failure to
complete the work as agreed " damage will be sustained
by the State of Wyoming . . .; and it is therefore agreed
that said Contractor shall pay to the State of Wyoming,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

as liquidated damages and not as penalty, an amount
equal to the cost of maintaining the necessary force of
engineers and inspectors on the work during the additional time . . .; and the State Highway Commission may
deduct the same from the amount due or to become due
to the Contractor . . ." The State of Wyoming hereby
reserves the right to accept and make use of any portion
of said work before the completion of the entire work
without invalidating the contract, or binding itself to accept the remainder of the work or any portion thereof
whether completed or not." The writing concluded thus"In witness whereof the State of Wyoming, acting
through its State Highway Commission, party of the first
part, has caused these presents to be executed by its Superintendent and the seal thereof to be hereunto affixed."
It was signed "State Highway Commission of Wyoming,
by L. E. Laird, Superintendent "; and by the Utah Construction Company.
A supplemental agreement dated December, 1922, and
signed "State Highway Commission of Wyoming, by
L. E. Laird, Superintendent " and the Utah Coistruction
Company, undertook to modify the contract of June 1st,
1922, in certain material respects.
By an amended petition, naming the Wyoming State
Highway Commission and its individual members as defendants, filed in the United States District Court of Wyoming August 2, 1925, the Utah Construction Company
sought to recover damages arising out of the breach of the
above-described construction contract, as supplemented.
Jurisdiction of the court was invoked under ยง 24 of the
Judicial Code (U. S. Code, ยง 41) on the ground of diverse
citizenship of the parties. The petition alleges that the
plaintiff is a citizen of Utah; the Commission and its individual members are citizens of Wyoming; more than
$3,000 is involved.

HIGHWAY COMM. v. UTAH CO.
194

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court concluded that the suit, in effect, is
one against the State; a State is not a citizen under the
Judiciary Acts; there is no diversity of citizenship; and no
jurisdiction.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought that the proceeding is not really one against tfie State, and that the statute
makes the Highway Commission a legal entity subject to
suit. It accordingly reversed the District Court and directed that the cause be remanded.
It seems to us sufficiently clear that the suit is, in
effect, against the State of Wyoming. The contract for
the construction of the work in question was between the
Utah Construction Company and the State. The State,
acting through the Highway Commission, as it might
through any officer, became a party to the original agreement and obligated herself thereby. Neither the Commission nor any of its members assumed any direct or
personal responsibility. The supplemental agreement
was not intended to impose liability where there was none
before. Its purpose, considering the changed circumstances, was to modify in the ways specified what the original parties had undertaken to do. The Commission was
but the arm or alter ego of the State with no funds or
ability to respond in damages. There is no claim that the
members of the Commission are personally liable. Hjorth
Royalty Co. v. Trustees of University, 30 Wyo. 309;
Franzen v. Southern Surety Co., 35 Wyo. 15; In re Ayers,
123 U. S. 443, 502; Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S.
636, 642; Ex parte State of New York, No. 1, 256 U. S.
490, 500.
It is unnecessary for us to consider the effect of the
general grant of power to sue or be sued to the Highway
Commission or its withdrawal in 1927-this suit, in effect,
is against the State and must be so treated. No consent
by the State to submit itself to suit could affect the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

278 U. S.

tion of diverse citizenship. "A State is not a citizen.
And, under the Judiciary Acts of the United States, it is
well settled that a suit between a State and a citizen or a
corporation of another State is not between citizens of
different States; and that the Circuit Court of the United
States has no jurisdiction oT it, unless it arises under the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States."
Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482, 487.
Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 63.
Here the petition showed no diversity of citizenship between the real parties in interest-the State and the Construction Company. No other ground of jurisdiction was
asserted. Consequently there was no jurisdiction. The
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed; that of the District Court will be affirmed.
Reversed.
WEST, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THU COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 71.

Argued October 24, 25, 1928-Decided January 2, 1929.

1. Authority of the Secretary of the Interior to determine whether
land claimed under a school land grant to a State was known to
be mineral when the survey was approved, may be exercised by
him directly without preliminary resort to a hearing before the

local land officers. P. 213.
2. Land comprised in a section numbered 36 was deeded by the
State of California as part of her school land grant, her title depending under the granting act of Congress upon the mineral
character of the land not having been known at the time when
the survey was approved. For the purpose of determining this
question purely in the interest of the United States, no claim under the federal laws having been advanced by any third party,
the Land Department ordered a hearing before the local land

