OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

JOHNSON, JR., ET AL. V. HAYDEL

278 U. S.
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA

No. 69.

Argued April 18, 1928.-Decided October 15, 1928.

Denial of a temporary injunction to restrain enforcement of certain
provisions of the Louisiana "Oyster Act," held erroneous, upon the
authority of Foster-FountainPacking Co. v. Haydel, ante, p. 1.
Reversed.
APPEAL from an order of the District Court of three
judges, refusing a temporary injunction in a suit to restrain enforcement of a statute of Louisiana concerning
the taking of oysters. The case was argued with the one
preceding, by the same counsel.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellants, plaintiffs below, are engaged in the business
of catching and canning oysters for shipment and sale in
interstate commerce. Appellees, defendants below, are
public officers in Louisiana charged with the duty of enforcing Act No. 258, known as the " Oyster-Act," passed
in July, 1926, entitled: "An Act To declare all oysters
and parts thereof in the waters of the State to be the
property of the State of Louisiana, and to provide the
manner and extent of their reduction to private ownership; to encourage, protect, conserve, regulate and develop the Oyster industry of the State of Louisiana . . ."
Plaintiffs sued to enjoin enforcement of certain of its provisions on the ground, among others, that they violate the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. The district
judge granted a restraining order pending application for
a temporary injunction. There was'a hearing before the
court, consisting of three judges, organized as required by
ยง 266 of the Judicial Code, U. S. C. Tit. 28, ยง 380; it set

MANEY v. UNITED STATES.
16

Syllabus.

aside the restraining order and denied the injunction.
Then, the court allowed this appeal, found that the plaintiffs will sustain irreparable harm and damage, and stayed
the enforcement of the Act pending determination here.
The purpose of this Act is the same in respect of oysters
as that of Act. No. 103 in respect of shrimp, considered in
Foster-FountainPacking Co. v. Haydel, ante, p. 1. The

challenged provisions of the one closely correspond to
those of the other. The two cases present similar issues
of law and fact. The showing made by plaintiffs in support of their motion for temporary injunction is substantially the same as was made in that case. Our decision
there controls this case.
Decree reversed.

MANEY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 27.

Argued October 11, 1928.-Decided October 22, 1928.

1. A certificate of citizenship which was granted by the District
Court without authority and contrary to law, is a certificate "illegally procured " within the meaning of ยง 15, Naturalization Act of
1906, directing district attorneys to institute proceedings for cancellation. P. 22.
2. Under the Act of 1906, a certificate from the Department of Labor
stating the date, place and manner of the applicant's arrival in the
United States must be filed with the petition for naturalization.
This requirement is jurisdictional, and failure to comply with it
cannot be cured by a subseqwent, filing allowed nunc pro tune.
So held where the decree was made within ninety days after the
actual filing of the certificate. P. 23.
3. A decree of the District Court admitting an applicant to citizenship against the objection of the United States that the court had
no jurisdiction because a certificate of arrival was not filed until
after the filing of the petition for naturalization, is not res judicata
barring a suit by the United States under ยง 15 of the Naturalization
27228-29-2

