INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. PINKUS.
258

Syllabus.

quirements prescribed. It does not in any manner relate to liability for, or the payment of, claims specified in
Art. 6625. Its field of operation is wholly distinct from
that covered by the state enactment.
It requires no discussion or citation of authority to show
that there is no conflict between Art. 6625 and the provisions of § 20a of the Interstate Commerce Act referred to.
The contention of plaintiff in error is without merit.
Decree affirmed.
INTERNATIONAL SHOE COMPANY v. PINKUS
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 12.

Argued April 11, 1928. Reargued October 22, 1928.Decided January 2, 1929.

1. A State is without power to make or enforce any law governing
bankruptcies that impairs the obligations of contracts or extends to
persons or property outside its jurisdiction, or conflicts with the
national bankruptcy laws. P. 263.
2. The fact that an insolvent has received a discharge in voluntary
bankruptcy proceedings within six years and, under § 14 of the
Bankruptcy Act, may not receive a new one, does not preclude the
filing of a new voluntary petition. P. 264.
3. The plain purpose of the Bankruptcy Act to establish uniformity
necessarily excludes state regulation of the subject matter, whether
interfering with the Act or complementary, additional or auxiliary.
P. 265.
4. After plaintiff had recovered judgment on a debt, the debtor obtained from a state court a decree adjudging him insolvent and
appointing a receiver to take and distribute his property under
a state law (Arkansas, Crawford & Moses Digest, c. 93), which
provides for surrender by an insolvent of all his unexempt property to be liquidated by a trustee for the payment of his debts
under direction of the court, for classification of creditors and payment of their claims in a prescribed order, and for giving prefer-

ence to those fully discharging the debtor in consideration of pro
rata distribution. Plaintiff, being unable to seek relief in bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

ruptcy because its claim was under $500.00 and all other creditors
had joined in the state court proceedings, sued in that court to
satisfy the judgment from the funds held by the receiver, but was
denied relief upon the ground that the insolvency proceedings
were not in conflict with the Bankruptcy Act, as plaintiff alleged,
but were the same in effect as an assignment for the benefit of
creditors.
Held that the state law is an insolvency law superseded by the
Bankruptcy Act at least insofar as it relates to the distribution of
property and releasing of claims, and that plaintiff was entitled
to have its judgment paid out of the funds in the hands of the
receiver. Boese v. King, 108 U. S. 379, distinguished. Pp. 264, 266.
173 Ark. 316, reversed.

ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
affirming the action of the Chancery Court in dismissing
a bill to enforce payment of a judgment out of funds in
the hands of a receiver appointed in a proceeding under the
Arkansas insolvency law.
Mr. J. D. Williamson, with whom Messrs. 0. C. Burnside and W. G. Streett were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Lamar Williamson submitted for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
In an action in the common pleas court of Chicot
County, Arkansas, August 24, 1925, plaintiff in error obtained judgment against Pinkus for $463.43. The debtor
was an insolvent merchant doing business in that county.
He had 46 creditors; his debts amounted to more than
$10,000, and his assets were less than $3,000. On the
day judgment was entered, the insolvent, invoking c. 93
of Crawford and Moses' Digest, commenced a suit in the
chancery court of that county praying to be adjudged
insolvent and for the appointment of a receiver to take
and distribute his property as directed by that statute.

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. PINKUS.
261

Opinion of the Court.

On the same day, the court adjudged him insolvent and
appointed a receiver, with directions to take the property
and liquidate it and direct creditors to make proof of their
claims "with the necessary stipulation that they will
participate in the proceeds in full satisfaction of their
demands." And, in pursuance of the statute, the court
ordered the receiver, after the expiration of 90 days, first
to pay costs, next salaries earned within 90 days, then
"the claims of those who have duly filed their claims with
the above stipulation, if enough funds are in your hands
to pay the same, and lastly . . . to pay any and all other
claims of creditors, or so much as the funds . . . will
pay, all creditors of the same class receiving an equal
percentage of the funds." The receiver sold the property
for $2659, and gave Pinkus $500 as his exemption. The
court allowed $250 as compensation for the receiver.
November 18, 1925, plaintiff in error caused execution
to issue for collection of the judgment. The sheriff, being unable to find property on which to levy, returned the
writ unsatisfied. Thereupon, plaintiff in error brought
this suit. The complaint alleged the facts aforesaid, asserted that c. 93 had been superseded and suspended by
the passage of the Bankruptcy Act, and prayed that the
judgment be paid out of the funds in the hands of the receiver. The chancery court overruled the contention,
held that the complaint failed to state a cause of action,
and dismissed the case. Its judgment was affirmed by
the highest court of the State. 173 Ark. 316. The case
is here under 1§ 237 (a), Judicial Code.
The question is whether, in the absence of proceedings
under the Bankruptcy Act, what was done in the chancery
couft protects the property in the hands of the receiver
from seizure to pay the judgment held by plaintiff in
error.
A State is without power to make or enforce any law
governing bankruptcies that impairs the obligation of

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court

278 U. S.

contracts or extends to persons or property outside its
jurisdiction or conflicts with the national bankruptcy laws.
Sturges v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122. Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 369. Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wall. 223,
228, et seq. Gilman v. Lockwood, 4 Wall. 409. Denny v.
Bennett, 128 U. S. 489, 497-498. Brown v. Smart, 145
U. S. 454, 457. Stellwagen v. Clum, 245 U. S. 605, 613.
The Arkansas statute is an insolvency law. It is so
designated in its title (Acts of Arkansas, 1897) and in
the revision. C. 93, supra. The supreme court of the
State treats it as such. Hickman v. Parlin-OrendorifCo.,
88 Ark. 519. Baxter County Bank v. Copeland, 114 Ark.
316, 322. Morgan v. State, 154 Ark. 273, 279, 281. This
case, 173 Ark. 316. Friedman& Sons v. Hogins, 175 Ark.
599. It provides for surrender by insolvent of all his unexempt property (§ 5885) to be liquidated by a trustee for
the payment of debts under the direction of the court. It
classifies creditors, prescribes the order of payment of their
claims and gives preference to those fully discharging the
debtor in consideration of pro rata distribution (§ 5888).
Mayer v. Hellman, 91 U. S. 496, 502. Stellwagen v. Clum,
supra. Segnitz v. Garden City Co., 107 Wis. 171. In re
Weedman Stave Co., 199 Fed. 948, and cases cited.
The state enactment operates within the field occupied
by the Bankruptcy Act. The insolvency of Pinkus was
covered by its provisions. He could have filed a voluntary petition. His application to the state court for the
appointment of a receiver was an act of bankruptcy, .§
3(a), U. S. C., Tit. 11, § 21(a); and, at any time within
four months thereafter, three or more creditors having
claims amounting to $500 or over could have filed an involuntary petition. § 59(b), U. S. C., Tit. 11, i§ 95(b).
We accept the statement made in the brief submitted on
behalf of Pinkus that he had been discharged in voluntary proceedings within six years prior to the filing of
the petition in the chancery court. Therefore he could

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. PINKUS.
261

Opinion of the Court.

not have obtained discharge under the Bankruptcy Act,
§ 14, U. S. C., Tit. 11, §-32, and, in proceedings under that
Act, all his creditors would have been entitled to participate in distribution without releasing the insolvent as to
unpaid balances.
The power of Congress to establish uniform laws on
the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States
is unrestricted and paramount. Constitution, Art. I, § 8,
cl. 4. The purpose to exclude state action for the discharge of insolvent debtors may be manifested without
specific declaration to that end; that which is clearly
implied is of equal force as that which is expressed. New
York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S.147, 150, et
seq. Erie R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S.170. Savage v.
Jones, 225 U. S.501, 533. The general rule is that an intention wholly to exclude state action will not be implied
unless, when fairly interpreted, an Act of Congress is
plainly in conflict with state regulation of the same subject. Savage v. Jones, supra. Illinois Central R. R. Co.
v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 245 U. S. 493, 510. Merchants Exchange v. Missouri,248 U. S.365. In respect of
bankruptcies the intention of Congress is plain. The national purpose to establish uniformity necessarily excludes
state regulation. It is apparent, without comparison in
detail of the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act with those
of the Arkansas statute, that intolerable inconsistencies
and confusion would result if that insolvency law be given
effect while the national Act is in force. Congress did
not intend to give insolvent debtors seeking discharge, or
their creditors seeking to collect claims, choice between
the relief provided by the Bankruptcy Act and that specified in state insolvency laws. States may not pass or enforce laws to interfere with or complement the Bankruptcy Act or to provide additional or auxiliary regulations. Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 617, 618. Northern Pacific Ry. v. Washington, 222 U. S.370, 378, et seq.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

St. Louis, Iron Mt. & S. Ry. v. Edwards, 227 U. S. 265.
Erie R. R. Co. v. New York, 233 U. S. 671, 681, et seq. New
York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, supra. Erie R. R. Co.
v. Winfield, supra. Oregon-Washington Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87, 101. It is clear that the provisions of
the Arkansas law governing the distribution of property
of insolvents for the payment of their debts and providing
for their discharge, or that otherwise relate to the subject of bankruptcies, are within the field entered by Congress when it passed the Bankruptcy Act, and therefore
such provisions must be held to have been superseded. In
Boese v. King, 108 U. S. 379, this Court, referring to the
effect of the national Act upon a state insolvency law
similar to the Arkansas statute under consideration, said
(p. 385): "Undoubtedly the local statute was, from the
date of the passage of the Bankrupt Act, inoperative in so
far as it provided for the discharge of the debtor from future liability to creditors who came in under the assignment and claimed to participate in the distribution of the
proceeds of the assigned property." And see Foley-Bean
Lumber Co. v. Sawyer, 76 Minn. 118. ParmenterManufacturing Co. v. Hamilton, 172 Mass. 178. In re BrussRitter Co., 90 Fed. 651
In the opinion of the state supreme court, it is said that
the effect of the proceedings in the chancery court was the
same as if the insolvent had made an assignment for the
benefit of his creditors. But the property was not handed
over simply for the purpose of the payment of debts as
far as it would go; it was transferred pursuant to a statute
and decree imposing conditions intended to secure the
debtor's discharge. As its claim was less than $500, plaintiff in error could not invoke the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court without cooperation of other creditors. It
was shown by insolvent's petition that his property was
less than one-third of his debts. The amount remaining

INTERNAT. SHOE CO. v. PINKUS.
261

Opinion of the Court.

after deducting his exemption and the costs was not sufficient to pay 20 per cent. of the claims. All creditors except plaintiff in error agreed fully to release insolvent in
consideration of the distribution directed by the decree.
And, as their claims were much in excess of the fund,
plaintiff in error could have obtained nothing on account
of its claim without giving insolvent a full release.
The decision below is not supported by Boese v. King,
supra. In that case there was an assignment under the
New Jersey insolvency law. Some years later creditors
obtained judgment against the assignor in New York. A
receiver appointed in supplementary proceedings sued the
assignees in New York to compel payment of the judgment out of funds they had on deposit there. The highest court of the State denied relief, and the case was
brought here on writ of error. This Court held that the
assignment was sufficient to pass title; and, as the Bankruptcy Act had superseded the New Jersey insolvency
law, all the creditors were entitled unconditionally to share
in pro rata distribution. The receiver was held not entitled to recover- because the judgment creditors could
have secured equal distribution by the institution of bankruptcy proceedings, but instead they waited until after
the expiration of the time allowed for that purpose, and
then by the New York suit sought to obtain preference
and full payment. In the course of the opinion, it is said
(p. 386): " It can hardly be that the court is obliged to
lend its aid to those who, neglecting or refusing to avail
themselves of the provisions of the act of Congress, seek
to accomplish ends inconsistent with that equality among
credit6rs which those provisions were designed to secure."
The case now before us is essentially different. Plaintiff in
error could not invoke jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court. The insolvent commenced proceedings under the
Arkansas insolvency law on the day that judgment was

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

278 U. S.

obtained against him. His purpose was to delay plaintiff in error and to secure full releases as provided by the
statute. The state court did not treat the proceedings
under the state law as a transfer of insolvent's property
for unconditional distribution as was done in Boese v.
King. On the contrary, the decree was the same as if the;
Bankruptcy Act had not been passed, and the court held
that, without giving any effect to the statute, the insolvent
by what was done in the chancery court could compel the
same distribution and obtain for himself the same advantages as were contemplated by the insolvency law. We
are of opinion that the proceedings in the chancery court
cannot be given that effect. The enforcement of state insolvency systems, whether held to be in pursuance of statutory provisions or otherwise, would necessarily conflict
with the national purpose to have uniform laws on the
subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States.
As all the proceedings were had under the Arkansas insolvency law, we need not decide whether, independently of
statute, an assignment for the benefit of creditors on the
conditions specified in the decree would protect the property of the insolvent from seizure to pay the judgment.
And, as the passage of the Bankruptcy Act superseded the
state law, at least insofar as it relates to the distribution
of property and releases to be given, plaintiff in error is entitled to have its judgment paid out of the fund in the
hands of the receiver.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD are of opinion that the decree'should

be affirmed.

