OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

well as the Supreme Court, and the decision was that which
right and justice demanded. There is no merit in the defence
which was sought to be interposed, and certainly nothing which
calls upon this court to interfere with the decision of the state
court.

The writ of error is
Dismissed.

THE OSCEOLA.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 98. Argued December 2, 1902.-Decided March 2, 1903.

I. The law both in England and America is settled as to the following
propositions:
(1) That a vessel and her owners are liable, in case a seaman falls Aick or
is wounded in the service of the ship, to the extent of his maintenance and cure, and to his, wages, at least so long as the voyage is
continued.
(2) That the vessel and her owners are, both by English and American
law, liable to an indemnity for injuries received by seamen in consequence of the unseaworthiness of the ship, or a failure to supply
and keep in order the proper appliances appurtenant to such ship.
(3) That all the members of the crew, except perhaps the master, are, as
between themselves, fellow servants, and hence seamen cannot recover for injuries sustained through the negligence of another
member of the crew beyond the expense of their maintenance and
cure.

(4.) That the seaman is not allowed to recover an indemnity for the negligence of the master, or any member of the crew, but is entitled
to maintenance and cure, whether the injuries were received from
negligence or accident.
2. Section 3348, Rev. Stat. of 1898 of Wisconsin, providing that every ship,
boat or vessel used in navigating the waters of that State shall be liable
for all damages arising from injuries done to persons or property thereby,
and that the claim therefor shall constitute a lien upon such ship, boat
or vessel, is confined to cases where the damage is done by those in charge
of a ship, with the ship as the "offending thing." Cases of damages
done on board the ship are not, within the meaning of the act, damages
done by the ship. Such statute does not create a lien which can be en-

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

forced in rem for injuries received by a seaman by the falling of a gangway, resulting as alleged from the master negligently ordering the same
to be hoisted while a head wind was blowing.

THIS was a libel in rem filed in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin, in admiralty, against the propeller Osceola, to recover damages for a personal injury sustained by one Patrick Shea, a seaman on board the vessel,
through the negligence of the master.
The case resulted in a decree for the libellant, from which
an appeal was taken by the owners to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which certified to this court certain questions arising
upon the following statement of facts
"The owners had supplied the vessel with a movable derrick for the purpose of raising the gangways of the vessel when
in port, in order to discharge cargo. The appliance was in
every respect fit and suitable for the purpose for which it was
intended and furnished to be used, and at the time of the injury was in good repair and condition. The gangways which
were to be raised by the derrick were each about ten feet long
lengthwise of the ship, about seven feet high and weighed about
1050 pounds. In the month of December, 1896, the vessel
was on a voyage bound for the port of Milwaukee, and when
within three miles of that port, and while in the open lake, the
master of the vessel ordered the forward port gangway to be
hoisted by means of the derrick, in order that the vessel might
be ready to discharge cargo immediately upon arrival at her
dock. At this time the vessel was proceeding at the rate of
eleven miles an hour against a head wind of eight miles an
hour. Under the supervision of the mate, the crew, including
the appellee Patrick Shea, who was one of the crew, proceeded
to execute the order of the master. The derrick was set in
place to raise the gangway. As soon as the gangway was
swung clear of the vessel, the front end was caught by the
wind and turned outward broadside to the wind, and by the
force of the wind was-pushed aft and pulled the derrick over,
which in falling struck and injured the libellant. The negligence, if any there was, consisted solely in the order of the
waster that the derrick should be used and that the gangway

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants.

189 U. S.

should be hoisted while the vessel was yet in the open sea when
the operation might be impeded and interfered with by the
wind. The mate and the crew in executing the orders of the
master of the vessel acted in all respects properly, and were guilty
of no negligence in the performance of the work. The libel
charged negligence upon the owners of the vessel in ' requiring
and permitting the work of unshipping said gangway to be
done while the said vessel was at sea and running against the
wind.' The owners were not present upon the vessel, nor was
the master a part owner of the vessel. It is contended that
the vessel and its owners are liable for every improvident or
negligent order of the captain in the course of the navigation
or management of the vessel."
The questions of law upon which that court desired the advice and instruction of the Supreme Court are"First. Whether the vessel is responsible for injuries happening to one of the crew by reason of an improvident and
negligent order of the master in respect of the navigation and
management of the vessel.
"Second. Whether in the navigation and management of a
vessel, the master of the vessel and the crew are fellow servants.
"Third. Whether as a matter of law the vessel or its owners
are liable to the appellee, Patrick Shea, who was one of the
crew of the vessel, for the injury sustained by him by reason of
order of the master of the vessel
the improvident and negligent
in ordering and directing the hoisting of the gangway at the
time and under the circumstances declared; that is to say, on
the assumption that the order so made was improvident and
neoliient."
.rr. C. H. Fan Alstine for appellants.
A proceeding in rem in the admiralty, is a proceeding to give
effect to a maritime lien and such a lien must always exist to
form the basis of such a proceeding. Beane v. The .lraym-ka,
2 Curt. 19; The Rock Island Bridge, 6 Wall. 213 ; The Corsair, 145 U. S. 335, 347; The Yankee Blade, 19 How. 82, 89;
The Glide, 167 U. S. 606, 612.
The maritime lien then is but an incident, a security, and does

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

not exist in favor of one to whom the owner of the vessel is not
liable inpersonam founded upon some maritime contract or tort
connected with the vessel.
It necessarily follows that the vessel is not responsible unless
appellants are liable inperonam to appellee under some law,
maritime or state, for the damages caused by the negligent
order of the master, and such law gave him a lien upon the
vessel as security for the payment of his damages.
The maritime law is only so far operative as law in any
country as it is adopted by the laws and usages of that country.
The _Loltawanna, 21 Wall. 558. See the Laws of Oleron relating to seamen, Art. 6; Appendix to 30 Fed. Gas. p. 1174; the
Laws of Wisbuy, Art. 18; Appendix to 30 Fed. Cas. p. 1191;
the Laws of Hanse Towns, Art. 39; Appendix to 30 Fed. Cas.
p. 1200; the Marine Ordinances of Louis XIV, sections 11 and
12, title Fourth; Appendix to 30 Fed. Cas. p. 1209.
The substance of these laws, to the effect that if a seaman
be wounded in the service of the ship or fall sick during the
voyage, he shall be paid his wages and cured at the charge of
the ship, has been adopted in this country, The Alexandria,
17 Fed. Rep. 390, but these laws are insufficient to give appellee
a lien upon the vessel for damages based on mental and physical
pain and loss of earning capacity.
The court cannot make the law, it can only declare it. If,
within its proper scope, any change is desired in its rules, other
than those of procedure, it must be made by the legislative department. Thie Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 576.
As the maritime law of this country is silent in respect to the
claim made in the libel, and as the case must be decided according to law, it is evident that the court must-if it has the right
so to do-apply the municipal law, for as we have already seen
it cannot extend the maritime law beyond its established limits.
As, however, the appellee resorted to a libel in rem., the court
is bound by the maritime law. Homer Ramsdell TYrans. Co. v.
La Compagnie Gen. Trans., 182 U. S. '406; T]ie City of N~orwalk, 55 Fed. Rep. 107.
By the maritime law of this country the liability of the vesVOL. c.xxxIX-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellants.

189 U..S.

sel owner, in cases like the present, is limited to medical and
surgical attendance, and wages to the end of the voyage.
While there are some reported cases in admiralty, holding
that a seaman injured in the service of the ship by the negligence of the master, has a cause of action to recover damages
from the owner for such personal injury, there is no reported
the cases
case holding that he has a lien upon the vessel,onand
the common
holding the owner liable inpersonam are rested
law, as that law was understood by the courts deciding them.
Prior to the decision of Ross v. Railway Company, 112 U. S.
377, decided December 8, 1884, and overruled in Railway Company v. Conroy, 175 U. S. 323, there is no reported case in the
Federal courts of a suit by a seaman against a vessel, or its
owners, to recover damages for a personal injury caused by the
negligence of the master in the navigation or management of
the vessel, excepting Daub v. Railway Company, 18 Fed. Rep.
625. As to fellow servant relations, see The Titan & The Hills,
23 Fed. Rep. 313; The A. Heaton, 43 Fed. Rep. 592; The
Saciten, 42 Fed. Rep. 66; XIcCullough's Adm. v. I. Y., etc.,
Steamboat Co., 20 U. S. App. 570; Qvin v. Lighterage Co., 23
Fed. Rep. 363; Olsen v. NYavigation Co., 44 0. C. A. 51, which
were cases decided according to the common law. See also
Quebec Steamshiip Co. v. Merchant, 133 U. S. 375; Homer Ramsdell Co. v. -LaCompagnieGen. Trans., supra; Railway Co. v.
Conroy, 175 U. S. 323; Hedley v. S. S. Co., 1 L. R. Q. B. 58;
Kalleck v. Deering, 161 [assachusetts, 469; (Jabrielsonv. Waydell, 135 N. Y. 1.
As the suit at bar is in rem, it must be decided under the
maritime law and under that law the liability of the owner
of a vessel in cases like the present is limited to medical and
surgical attendance and wages to the end of the voyage. But
if the court has the right to apply to this case any part of the
municipal law, sound reason and natural justice requires only
that the owner of the vessel shall be bound to use reasonable
care to furnish a seaworthy vessel, sufficient and safe appliances,
and sufficient and competent seamen and officers, and that the
law of assumption of risk should be applied to the seamen.
The master of a vessel, it is true, is vested with considerable

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

power over the seamen, but he has not the power exercised by
masters under ancient maritime law. He has, however, power
to compel obedience by the seamen to his orders issued in the
navigation and management of the vessel, by forfeiture of
wages and imprisonment. Rev. Stat. see. 4596. But whatever power the master has, he is invested with it by the maritime law, not by the owner of the vessel.
The most reasonable and proper construction of the Wisconsin statute makes it apply to cases where the ship itself, and
not one of its appliances, directly produces the damage as the
last link in the chain of events commencing with negligence or
misconduct in the navigation of the vessel as the first or proximate cause, and it is submitted that such is the construction
due to this statute.
The Federal courts enforce liens, created by state statutes,
upon vessels, when such statutes are not in conflict with the
laws and usages of the United States, because, and only because,
the lien touches a subject within the constitutional jurisdiction
of the Federal courts, and it necessarily follows that they cannot go beyond the state or municipal law creating the cause of
action and lien. Bigelow v. Anderson's Adm., 34 U. S. App.
261, 273; The City of Jforwalk, 55 Fed. Rep. 98; Sherlock v.
Alling, 93 U. S.104; The Corsair, 145 U. S.347. Where a
cause of action depends upon general law, the Federal courts
are not bound by the state decisions. Baltimore & Ohio RI. R.
Co. v. Bcugh, 149 U. S.368, 370.
By.the common law of Wisconsin the master is not liable to
his servant for a personal injury caused by the negligence of a
fellow servant, and whether the relation of fellow servants exists, in a given case, is not to be determined by the rank or
grade of the offending servant, but by the nature of the act in
the performance of which the injury was inflicted, without regard to the rank of the offending servant. If the negligence of
the servant causing the injury was in respect to an act that the
law implies a contract duty on the part of the master to perform, and the offending servant has been charged by the master with the performance of that act, then such servant is an
agent of the master, but as to all other acts he is a fellow serv-

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Argument for Appellee.

189 U. S.

ant of the servant injured. Dwyer v. Am.. Ex. Co., 82 Wisconsin, 307; Stutz v. Armour, 81 Wisconsin, 623; Cadden v. Am.
Steel Barge Co., 88 Wisconsin, 409; Hartford v. Railway co.,
91 Wisconsin, 374; Hlochinsei v. Shores Lumber Co., 93 Wisconsin, 417; . cMa/on v. da Xfining Co., 95 Wisconsin, 308;
Albrecht v. Railway Co., 108 Wisconsin, 530, 538; Wiskie v.
The fontello Granite Co., 111 Wisconsin, 443, and cases cited.
The rule in Wisconsin is that all servants charged by the
master with the duty of furnishing another servant with a place
to work, or with appliances to work with, or with fellow servants, is an agent of the master for those purposes, but in every
other case all servants of a common master, engaged in the
same general undertaking, are fellow servants. None of the
Wisconsin cases cited involve maritime torts; there are, however, two such cases closely, at least, analogous in their facts, in
which different conclusions were reached. See .Matthews v. Case,
61 Wisconsin, 491 ; Ttomyson v. Herman, 47 Wisconsin, 602.
ir. 7ohn H. Roemer for appellee.
As this case is in remv unless a lien exists by virtue of the
statute of Wisconsin or by the maritime law, or unless appellants have waived the objection by appearing personally, giving an undertaking for the release of the vessel and litigating
upon the merits, the action cannot be maintained.
The sovereignty of the State of Wisconsin extends to the
center of Lake Alichigan, and its laws so far as they do not
conflict with the laws of the 'United States passed in the regulation of commerce and navigation, are operative within the
boundaries of that State.
If a state statute gives a right of action touching a subject of maritime nature, the admiralty can administer the law
by a proceeding in rem, if the statute grants a lien, or in personam, no lien being granted. Tle Corsair, 145 U. S. 335;
Bigelow v. Nickerson, 70 Fed. IRep. 113.
See. 3348, Wisconsin Statutes of 1898, provides that for
all damages arising from injuries done to persons or property
by such ship, boat or vessel, a lien is given which may be enforced by proceeding in admiralty, etc.

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Whether this statute creates any new cause of action or
merely deals with causes already maintainable at common law
or in admiralty has never yet been determined by judicial
construction.
If the statute merely applies to causes in personam already
maintainable under the statute, the common, or the maritime
law, it is effective to create liens in all cases within its scope,
and such liens may be enforced by proceeding in rem in admiralty. ifendell v. The Martin White, Hoff. Op. 450; Case
No. 9419 Fed. Cases; The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1; The
Oregon, 45 Fed. Rep. 62; The Oregon, 158 U. S. 186; The £.
. Warner, 22 Fed. Rep. 342.
The subjects of admiralty jurisdiction include "all affairs
relating to mariners, whether ship officers or common mariners, their rights and privileges respectively; their office and
duty; their wages; their offences, whether by wilfulness, casualty, ignorance, negligence or insufficiency, with their punishments." Chamberlain v. Chandle', 3 -Mason, 242. The rule
of the English courts that unless the owner is liable at common law the vessel cannot be held in admiralty, has been rejected in this country. Homer Ransdell Tran&portation Co.
v. La Comipagnie Gingrale Transatlantique,182 U. S. 406.
As to jurisdiction in cases of marine torts, see The .Mariana
Flora, 11 Wheat. 54; The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 1; The Explorer, 20 Fed. Rep. 135; The Wanderer, 20 Fed. Rep. 140;
The 2fax _Morris, 24 Fed. Rep. 860 ; The Xax Zorris, 28 Fed.
Rep. 881; Steamer tax MoXorris v. Cuqvy, 137 U. S. 1.
If it should be determined that the proceeding should have
been commenced in ypersonam and not in rem, the question
cannot be raised at this time. Betts, Adm. Pr. 99 ; The Zenobia, 1 Abb. Adm. 48; Roberts v. Huntsville, 3 Woods, 386;
The Union, 4 Blatchf. 90 ; The White Squall, 4 Blatchf. 103;
The Mlonte A., 12 Fed. Rep. 331; The Williamette, 70 Fed.
Rep. 874 ; leathers v. Blessing, 105 U. S. 626 ; Chamberlain v.
Ward, 21 How. 554; The Charles Morgan, 115 U. S. 69; 2
Brown's Civil & Adm. Law, p. 400; The Warren, 2 Ben. 498;
The Bilboa, Lush. 149.
There is a conflict of opinion as to whether or not the vessel

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellee.

189 U. S.

and its owners are liable in admiralty for the negligence of the
master in the management and navigation of the ship, proximately causing injury to an ordinary seaman; that the vessel
and its owners are responsible in such cases is supported by
the better reasoning. Peterson v. The Chandos, 4 Fed. Rep.
645 ; The Clatsop Chief, 8 Fed. Rep. 163 ; The Titan, 23 Fed.
Rep. 413; The A. Heaton, 43 Fed. Rep. 592, and cases cited;
The Julia -Fowler,49 Fed. Rep. 277 ; The Erank and Willie,
45 Fed. Rep. 494; .MeCullough's Admx. v. Steamboat Co., 20
U. S. App. 570 ; 61 Fed. Rep. 364 ; Chicago, 31. & St. P. R.
Co. v. Ptoss, 112 U. S. 377 ; Leathers v. Blessing, 105 U. S. 626 ;
The St. -Lawrence,7 Notes, Cas. Adm. & Ecc. 556, 566 ; 14 Jur.
534; Heating v. Pac. St. Whaling Co., 21 Washington, 415;
The .Aiami, 93 Fed. Rep. 218; Oleson v. Oregon, . & N. Co.,
104 Fed. Rep. 574.
Passengers have often maintained libels, as well against the
ship carrying them as against other ships, for personal injuries
caused by negligence for which the owners of the ship libelled
were responsible. The New World, 16 How. 469; The lWashington, 9 Wall. 513; The Juniata,93 U. S. 337; The City of
Panama,101 U. S. 453, 462. The sixteenth rule in admiralty,
which directs that "in all suits for an assault or beating upon
the high seas, or elsewhere within the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, the suit shall be inpersonam.only," does not affect
libels for negligence. Leddy v. Gibson, 11 Ct. Sess. Cas. (3d
ser.) 304, distinguished. No reason can be assigned why the
owners of a vessel should be held less liable to a seaman for the
negligence of the master in a court of admiralty than in a court
of common law. Courts of admiralty have always considered
seamen as peculiarly entitled to their protection. Seamen may
recover their wages by libel in personam, against either the
owners or the master, or by libel in 'rem against the ship. Shel)ypard v. Taylor, 5 Pet. 675, 711; Bronde v. Haven, Gilp. 592;
Teml)le v. Turner, 123 -Massachusetts, 125, 128 ; Rule 13 inAdmiralty. Their lien on the ship or its proceeds takes precedence of all other claims, except, perhaps, claims for salvage, or
for damages by collision owing to the fault of their ship. Hen.
Adm. sec. 69, and cases cited; Norwich Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall.

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

104, 122. A seaman, taken sick or injured or disabled in the
service of the ship, has the right to receive his wages to the
end of the voyage, and to be cured at the ship's expense. Hfarden v. Gordon, 2 Mason, 541; The George, 1 Sumner, 151;
Reed v. Canfield, 1 Sumner, 195; Sherwood v. Hall, 3 Sumner,
127.
The cases relied upon by claimants, that the master of the
vessel and the appellee were fellow servants, are common law
cases and can be distinguished from this. Gabrielson v. Waydell, 135 N. W. 1 ; Hedley v. Pinkney &.Sons S. S. Co., 1 L. R.
Q. B. 58; lelleck v. Deering, 161 Massachusetts, 469; i-atthews v. Case, 61 Wisconsin, 491, distinguished and see the only
case in which the precise point in question has been squarely
raised and decided, Thompson v. Hermann, 47 Wisconsin, 602,
and numerous cases cited. See also Railway Co. v. Conroy,
175 U. S. 323; Union Pac/ic Ry. Co. v. Fort, 17 Wall. 553;
Railway Co. v. Ross, 112 U. S. 377.
But to the general rule there are certain well defined exceptions, recognized by both state and Federal courts, some of
which are applicable to the case at bar. Where a master abdicates from control and management of his business, and puts
the whole power of superintendence into other hands, he necessarily has one or more vice principals. Any person to whom
is committed under such circumstances the entire control of
all the servants, including the power to hire and discharge, is
a vice principal for whose negligence in the matter of the control of the servants, and the management of the business, the
master is liable to the servants. Sherman & Redfield on Negligence (5th ed.), sees. 230, 233, and cases cited; Railway Co. v.
Ross, 112 U. S. 377; Railway Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 364;
Railway Co. v. Peterson,162 U. S. 347; Railway Co. v. Keegan,
160 U. S. 259; Railway Co v. Conroy, 175 U. S. 323 ; Crispin
v. Babbitt, 81 N. Y. 516; 20 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 147;
Johnson v. First National Bank, 79 Wisconsin, 414.
See the following cases as to fellow servants or vice principal:
Harrisonv. Railroad Co., 77 Michigan, 409; .Malcolm v. Ful. Telephone Exler, 152 Massachusetts, 428: Carlson v. N.
Co., 121 Inv.
Railway
change Co., 63 M innesota, 428; Tailor

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

diana, 124; Railway Co. v. May, 108 Illinois, 288; Gormley
v. Vulcan Iron Works, 61 Missouri, 492; Smith v. Wabash
Railway Co., 92 Missouri, 366; Schroeder v. Railway Co., 108
Missouri, 322; Lasky v. Railway Co., 83 Maine, 461; Patton
v. Railway Co., 96 North Carolina, 455; io-Govern v. Railway Co., 123 New York, 281; Eldredge v. Steamship Co., 134
New York, 18-7; Railroad Co. v. Fort, 171 Wallace, 553; Borgman v. Railway Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 667'; Thompson v. Railway
co, 14 Fed. Rep. 564.
The analogies of the general rule of the municipal law exempting the master from liability for injury to a servant caused
by the negligence of a fellow servant, do not apply to the master of a vessel and ordinary seamen when the vessel is at sea.
One of the purposes for which the master is employed is to
exercise authority and control over the crew in the management and navigation of the ship; in the exercise of that authority and control he is the representative of the owners and
not the fellow servant of the crew.
MR. JUsTicE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In the view we take of this case we find it necessary to express an opinion only upon the first and third questions, which
are in substance whether the vessel was liable in rem to one of
the crew by reason of the improvident and negligent order of
the master in directing the hoisting of the gangway for the discharge of cargo, before the arrival of the vessel at her dock, and
during a heavy wind.' As this is a libel inrem itis unnecessary
to determine whether the owners would be liable to an action
in personam, either in admiralty or at common law, although
cases upon this subject are not wholly irrelevant.
1. If the rulings of the District Court were correct, that the
vessel was liable in rem for these injuries, such liability must
be founded either upon the general ad iniralty law or upon a
local statute of the State within which the accident occurred.
As the admiralty law upon the subject must be gathered from
the accepted practice of courts of admiralty, both at home and
abroad, we are bound in answering this question to examine

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the sources of this law and its administration in the courts of
civilized countries, and to apply it, so far as it is consonant with
our own usages and principles, or, as Mr. Justice Bradley
observed in Thie Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, "having regard to
our own legal history, Constitution, legislation, usages, and adjudications."
By Article VI of the Rules of Oleron, sailors injured by their
own misconduct could only be cured at their own expense, and
might be discharged; "but if, by the master's order and commands, any of the ship's company be in the service of the ship,
and thereby happen to be wounded or otherwise hurt, in that
case they shall be cured and provided for at the cost and charges
of the said ship." By Article 18 of the Laws of Wisbuy, "a
mariner being ashore in the master's or the ship's service, if he
should happen to be wounded, he shall be maintained and cured
at the charge of the ship," with a further provision that, if he
be injured by his own recklessness, he may be discharged and
obliged to refund what he has received. Practically the same
provision is found in Article 39 of the Laws of the Hanse Towns;
in the 'Marine Ordinances of Louis XIV, Book III, Title 4,
Article 11; and in a Treatise upon the Sea Laws, published in
2 Pet. Admiralty Decisions. In neither of these ancient codes
does there appear to be any distinction between injuries received accidentally or by negligence, nor does it appear that
the seaman is to be indemnified beyond his wages and the
expenses of his maintenance and cure. We are also left in the
dark as to whether the seaman in such a case has recourse to
the ship herself or is remitted to an action against the owners.
By the modern French Commercial Code, Art. 262," seamen
are to be paid their wages, and receive medical treatment at
the expense of the ship, if they fall sick during a voyage, or be
injured in the service of the vessel." Commenting upon this
article, Goirand says in his commentaries upon the French
Code, that" when a sailor falls ill before the sailing of the vessel, he has no right to his wages; if he becomes ill during the
voyage, and from no fault of his own, he is paid his wages, and
tended at the expense of the ship, and if he is left on shore,
the ship is also liable for the expense of his return home;" and

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

under Article 263 "the same treatment is accorded to sailors
wounded or injured in the service of the ship. The expenses
of treatment and dressing are chargeable to the ship alone, or
to the ship and cargo, according to whether the wounds or injuries were received in the service of the ship alone, or that of
the ship and cargo."
Similar provisions are found in the Italian Code, Article 363:
the Belgian, Article 262 ; the Dutch, Articles 423 and 424 ; the
Brazilian, Article 560; the Chilian, Article 944; the Argentine,
Article 1174; the Portuguese, Article 1469; the Spanish, Articles 718 and 719 ; the German, Articles 548 and 549. In some
of these codes, notably the Portuguese, Argentine and Dutch,
these expenses are made a charge upon the ship and her cargo
and freight, and considered as a subject of general average. By
the Argentine Code, Article 1174, the sailor is also entitled to
an indemnity beyond his wages and cure in case of mutilation;
and by the German Code he appears to be entitled to an indemnity in all cases for injuries incurred in defence of his ship;
and by the Dutch Code, the sailor, if disabled, is entitled to such
damages as the judge shall deem equitable. In all of them
there is a provision against liability in case of injuries received
by the sailor's willful misconduct.
Except as above indicated, in a few countries, the expense
of maintenance and cure do not seem to constitute a privilege
or lien upon a ship, since by the French Code, Article 191,
classifying privileged debts against vessels, no mention is made
ol a lien for personal injury. The other Continental and South
American codes do not differ materially from the French in
this particular. Probably, however, the expenses of maintenance and cure would be regarded as a mere incident to the
wages, for which there is undoubtedly a privilege.
By the English Merchants' Shipping Act, 17 & 18 Vict.
chap. 104, sec. 228, subd. 1, "if the master or any seaman or
apprentice receives any hurt or injury in the service of the ship
to which he belongs, the expense of providing the necessary
surgical and medical advice, with attendance and medicines,
and of his subsistence until he is cured, or dies, or is brought
back to some port in the United Kingdom, if shipped in the

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United Kingdom, or if shipped in some British possession to
some port in such possession, and of his conveyance to such
port, and the expense (if any) of his burial, shall be defrayed
by the owner of such ship, without any deduction upon that
account from the wages of such master, seaman, or apprentice."
These provisions of the British law seem to be practically
identical with the Continental codes. In the English courts
the owner is now held to be liable for injuries received by the
unseaworthiness of the vessel, though not by the negligence of
the master, who is treated as a fellow servant of the seamen.
Responsibility for injuries received through the unseaworthiness of the ship is imposed upon the owner by the Merchants'
Shipping Act of 1876, 39 & 40 Vict. chap. 80, section 5,wherein
in every contract of service, express or implied, between an
owner of a ship and the master or any seaman thereof, there
is an obligation implied that all reasonable means shall be
used to insure the seaworthiness of the ship before and during the voyage. Hedley v. Pinkney &C.Steamship Co., 1894,
App. Ca. 222, an action at common law. Beyond this, however, we find nothing in the English law to indicate that a ship
or its owners are liable to an indemnity for injuries received
by negligence or otherwise in the service of the ship. None
such is given in the Admiralty Court Jurisdiction Act of 1861,
although it seems an action in admiralty will lie against the
master in yersonam for an assault committed upon a passenger
or seaman. The Agincourt, 1 Hagg. Adm. 271 ; The Lowther
Castle, 1 Hagg. Adm. 384. This feature of the law we have
ourselves adopted in general admiralty rule 16, declaring that
"in all suits for assault or beating on the high seas, or elsewhere within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, the suit
shall be in-personam only." In England the master and crew
are also treated as fellow servants, and hence it would follow
that no action would lie by a member of the crew against either
the owners or the ship for injuries received through the negligence of the master. Hedley v. Pinkney &c. Steamship Co.,
1894, App. Ca. 222. It is otherwise, however, in Ireland, Ravisay v. Quinn, Irish Rep. 8 C. L. 322, and in Scotland, where

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

the master is regarded as a vice principal. Leddy v. Gibson, 11
Ct. Sess. Cases, 3d Ser., 304-.
The statutes of the United States contain no provision upon
the subject of the liability of the ship or her owners for damages occasioned by the negligence of the captain to a member
of the crew; but in all but a few of the more recent cases the
analogies of the English and Continental codes have been followed, and the recovery limited to the wages and expenses of
maintenance and cure. The earliest case upon the subject is that
of farden v. Gordon, 2 Mason, 5,1, in which Mr. Justice Story
held that a claim for the expenses of cure in case of sickness
constituted in contemplation of law a part of the contract for
wages, over which the admiralty had a rightful jurisdiction.
The action was in yersonam against the master and owner for
wages and other expenses occasioned by the sickness of the
plaintiff in a foreign port in the course of the voyage, all of
which were allowed. The question of indemnity did not arise
in this case, but the court held that upon the authority of the
Continental codes and by its intrinsic equity there was no doubt
of the seaman's right to the expenses of his sickness.
This case was followed in Tie Brig George, 1 Sumner, 151,
and in Reed v. Cavnfeld, 1 Sumner, 195. Though the last case
did not involve the question of indemnity, Mr. Justice Story, in
delivering the opinion, remarked that "the sickness or other
injury may occasion a temporary or permanent disability; but
that is not a ground for indemnity from the owners. They are
liable only for expenses necessarily incurred for the cure; and
when the cure is completed, at least so far as the ordinary
medical means extend, the owners are freed from all further
liability. They are not in any just sense liable for consequential damages. The question, then, in all such cases is, what expenses have been virtually incurred for the cure."
The question of indemnity, however, was fully considered by
Judge Brown of the Southern District of Ngew York in The
City of Alexandria,1'7 Fed. Rep. 390, which was an action in
ren for personal injuries received by the cook in falling through
the fore hatch into the hold; and it was held that upon common law principles the claim could not be sustained, as the

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

negligence through which the accident occurred was that of
fellow servants engaged in a common employment. The court,
however, went on to consider whether the negligence, upon the
recognized principles of maritime law, entitled the libellant to
compensation from the ship or her owners in cases not arising
from unseaworthiness. After going over the Continental codes,
the cases above cited and a few others, Judge Brown came to
the conclusion that he could find "no authority in the ancient
or modern codes, in the recognized text-books, or the decisions
on maritime law, for the allowance of consequential damages
resulting from wounds or hurts received on board ship, whether
arising from ordinary negligence of the seaman himself, or
of others of the ship's company. Considering the frequency of
such accidents, and the lasting injuries arising from them in so
many cases, the absence of any authority holding the vessel
liable, beyond what has been stated, is evidence of the strongest
character that no further liability under the maritime law
exists."
The general rule that a seaman receiving injury in the performance of his duty is entitled to be treated and cured at the
expense of the ship was enforced in The Atlantic, Abbott's
Adm. 451, though it was said in this case and in Nfevitt v. Clarke,
Olcott, 316, that the privilege of being cured continues no longer
than the right to wages under the contract in the particular
case. In Dhe Ben -Flint,1 Abb. U. S.126; S. C., 1 Biss. 562,
the claim to be cured at the expense of the ship is held to be
applicable to seamen employed on the lakes and navigable
rivers within the United States. See also Brown v. Overton, 1
Sprague, 462; Croucher v. Oakman, 3 Allen, 185; Brown v.
The Bradish Johnson, I Woods, 301.
In Te Edith Godden, 23 Fed. Rep. 43, the vessel was held
liable in rem for personal injuries received from the neglect of
the owner to furnish appliances adequate to the place and occasion where used. In other words, for unseaworthiness. This
is readily distinguishable from the previous case of The City of
Alexandria, 17 Fed. Rep. 390, and is in line with English and
American authorities holding owners to be responsible to the
seamen for the unseaworthiness of the ship and her appliances.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

In The Titan, 23 Fed. Rep. 413, the ship was held liable to a
deck hand, who was injured by a collision occasioned partly
by fault of his own vessel. The question of general liability
was not discussed but assumed. In the case of The HYoddleburn, 28 Fed. Rep. 855, the question of jurisdiction was not
pressed by counsel, but merely stated and submitted. The case
is put upon the ground that, as the accident was occasioned by
the master knowingly allowing a rope to remain in an insecure
condition, the vessel was consequently unseaworthy. In Olson,
v. Flavel, 34 Fed. Rep. 477, libellant was allowed to recover
damages for personal injury suffered by him while employed
as mate, but if there were any negligence on the part of the
respondent, it appears to have been in not providing proper appliances, so that the case was one really of unseaworthiness.
In the case of Te A. Ueaton, 43 Fed. Rep. 592, a seaman was
allowed to recover consequential damages for negligence of the
owners in not providing suitable appliances, although in the
opinion, which was delivered by Mr. Justice Gray, he seems to
assume the right of the seaman to recover against the masters
or owners for injuries caused by their willful or negligent acts.
The case however was one of injuries arising from unseaworthiness, although the learned judge in his discussion does not draw
a distinction between the cases arising from the unseaworthiness of the ship and the negligent act of the master. It is interesting to note that in Tie Julia Fowler, 49 Fed. Rep. 271, a
seaman, employed in scraping the main mast on a triangle surrounding the mast, was allowed to recover for the breaking of
the rope which held the triangle, and precipitated libellant to
the deck; while in a case almost precisely similar, BKalleck v.
Deering, 161 Massachusetts, 469, the owners were held not to
be liable for an injury caused by the negligence of the mate in
constructing the triangle and ordering the seaman to use it. In
Tle Frank and Willie, 45 Fed. Rep. 494, the ship was held
liable to a sailor who was injured by the negligence of the mate
in not providing safe means for discharging the cargo. As the
opinion was delivered by Judge Brown, who was also the author
of the opinion in The City of Alexandria, 17 Fed. Rep. 390,
the case can be reconciled with that upon the ground that the

THE OSCEOLA.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question was really one of unseaworthiness and not of negligence.
Upon a full review, however, of English and American authorities upon these questions, we think the law may be considered as settled upon the following propositions:
1. That the vessel and her owners are liable, in case a seaman
falls sick, or is wounded, in the service of the ship, to the extent
of his maintenance and cure, and to his wages, at least so long
as the voyage is continued.
2. That the vessel and her owner are, both by English and
American law, liable to an indemnity for injuries received by
seamen in consequence of the unseaworthiness of the ship, or a
failure to supply and keep in order the proper appliances appurtenant to the ship. Sca?f" v. MetcaZf, 107 N. Y. 211.
3. That all the members of the crew, except perhaps the
master, are, as between themselves, fellow servants, and hence
seamen cannot recover for injuries sustained through the negligence of another member of the crew beyond the expense of
their maintenance and cure.
4. That the seaman is not allowed to recover an indemnity
for the negligence of the master, or any member of the crew,
but is entitled to maintenance and cure, whether the injuries
were received by negligence or accident.
It will be observed in these cases that a departure has been
made from the Continental codes in allowing an indemnity
beyond the expense of maintenance and cure in cases arising
from unseaworthiness. This departure originated in England
in the Merchants' Shipping Act of 1876, above quoted, Couch
v. eel, 3 El. & B1. 402; Hfedley v. Pikney &c. Co., 7 Asp. Mvi.
L. C. 135 ; 1894, App. Cas. 222, and in this country, in a general consensus of opinion among the Circuit and District Courts,
that an exception should be made from the general principle
before obtaining, in favor of seamen suffering injury through
the unseaworthiness of the vessel. We are not disposed to disturb so wholesome a doctrine by any contrary decision of our
own.
2. It is insisted, however, that a lien is given upon the vessel
by a local statute of Wisconsin, Rev. Stat. of 1898, sec. 3348,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

repeating a previous statute upon the same subject, which
provides that every ship, boat or vessel used in navigating the
waters of that State shall be liable "for all damages arising
from injuries done to persons or property by such ship, boat or
vessel," and that the claim for such damages shall constitute a
lien upon such ship, boat or vessel, which shall take precedence
of all other claims or liens thereon. As the accident happened
within three miles of the port of Milwaukee, and as the constitution of Wisconsin fixes the center of Lake Michigan as the
eastern boundary of the State, there is no doubt that the vessel
was navigating the waters of that State at the time of the accident. But the vital question in the case is whether the damages
arose from an injury done to persons or property by such ship,
boat or vessel. The statute was doubtless primarily intended
to cover cases of collision with other vessels or with structures
affixed to the land, and to other cases where the damage is
done by the ship herself, as the offending thing, to persons or
property outside of the ship, through the negligence or mismanagement of the ship by the officers or seamen in charge.
To hold that it applies to injuries suffered by a member of the
crew on board the ship is to give the act an effect beyond the
ordinary meaning of the words used. Would it apply, for instance, to injuries received in falling through an open hatchway? Or to a block blown against a seaman by the force of
the wind, though the accident in either case might have resulted
from the negligence of the master? We think not.
The act in this particular uses the same language as the
seventh section of the English Admiralty Court Act of 1861,
which declares that "the High Court of Admiralty shall have
jurisdiction over any claim for damage done by any ship."
Construing that act, it has been held by the Court of Admiralty
that it applies to damages occasioned by a vessel coming in collision with a pier, The Uhla, L. R. 2 Ad. & Ec. 29, note, and
also to cases of personal injury, The Synph, L. R. 2 Ad. & Ec.
24, where a diver, while engaged in diving in the river Mersey,
was caught by the paddle wheel of a steamer and suffered considerable injury; but not to a case where personal injuries were
sustained by a seaman falling down into the hold of a vessel,

LAND & WATER CO.
189 U. S.

b.

SAN JOSE RANCH CO.

177

Syllabus.

owing to the hatchway being insufficiently protected, The
Theta, 1894, P. D. 280, or to loss of life, The Vera Cruz, 9 P.
D. 96. As we have indicated above the statute was confined to
cases of damage done by those in charge of a ship with the
ship as the "noxious instrument," and that cases of damages
done on board the ship were not within the meaning of the act
of damages done by the ship.
In the case under consideration the damage was not done by
the ship in the ordinary sense of the word, but by a gangway,
which may be assumed to be an ordinary appliance of the ship,
being blown against the libellant by the force of the wind.
it results that the first and third questions must be answered
in the negative.

SAN JOSE LAND AND WATER COMPANY v. SAN
JOS] RANCH COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 113. Submitted December 2, 1902.-Decided MSarch 2, 1903.
Although no Federal right, title or immunity was specially set up or claimed
in the complaint, it is sufficient if it appears in the motion for new trial
and in the assignment of error in the state Supreme Court. In this case
italso appears from the opinion of the court that the question was whether
the plaintiff in error had brought itself within the scope of an act of Congress upon which it relied.
Under the rule of this court requiring opinions to be sent up with the record, it is a sufficient compliance with the words " specially set up and
claimed" that the Federal question was fully considered in the opinion
of the court, and ruled against the plaintiff in error.
A party who, on complying with the provisions of an act of Congress would
have the right to purchase lands, part of the public domain, but who has
not complied with the requirements of the act, is not entitled, upon the
mere showing of such right to purchase, to demand that its title be adjudged good and valid, and that another party who is in possession be
adjudged to have no estate or interest in the land, or that such other
person be enjoined from asserting any adverse claim, or that the claimant recover the possession of the land with the right of ousting the defendant from the improvements made thereon by its predecessors.
VOL. CLXXXIX-12

