OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

be attempted by us. Whether further evidence shall be taken
we leave to the parties and to that court.
.Decrees ireversed and cases remanded for further proceedingg
in accordancewith this opinion.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BEHYMER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 224. Argued MBarch 20, April 6, 1903.-Decided April 20, 1903.

In an action for personal injuries sustained by a brakeman by falling from
a car, where the claim was based upon negligence in stopping the car sud-

denly with knowledge of his position and of the slippery condition of the
roof of the car, and also upon the projection of a nail in the roof of the car

which increased the danger and contributed to his fall, held, there was
no error in the court declining to rule that the chance of such an accident
was one of the risks assumed by the plaintiff, or that the question
whether the defendant was liable depended on whether the freight train
was handled in the usual and ordinary way.

It was proper for the court

to leave it to the jury to say whether the train was handled with due
care.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. . P. Duncan for plaintiff in error. M. John P. Dillon and XM/r. Winslow S. Pierce were on the brief.
.tfr. Cone Johnson for defendant in error.

MIR.

JUSTICE HOL ES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an aftion for personal injuries brought by an employ6
against a railroad company. It was tried in the Circuit Court,
where the plaintiff had a verdict. It then was taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals on a writ of error and bill of excep-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO. v. BEHYMER.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Coult.

tions by the company, 112 Fed. Rep. 35, and now is brought
here on a further writ of error, the company being a United
States corporation. A good deal of the argument for the railroad is devoted to disputing the testimony of the plaintiff below and arguing that the verdict was excessive, but of course
we have nothing to do with that. New Ybrk, lake Erie &
Western Railroad v. Winter, 143 U. S. 60, 75; Lincoln v.

Power, 151 U. S. 436. We must assume the most favorable
statement of the plaintiff's case to be true, unless some particular request for instructions makes it necessary to deal with
conflicting evidence. That statement may be made in a few
words.
Behymer had been in the employ of the company as a brakeman about three months. On February 7, 1899, at Big Sandy,
in Texas, he was ordered by the conductor of a local freight
train to get up on some cars standing on a siding and let off
the brakes, so that the engine might move them to the main
track and add them to the train. The tops of the cars were
covered with ice, as all concerned knew. He obeyed orders;
the engine picked up the cars, moved to the main track and
stopped suddenly. The cars ran forward to the extent of the
slack and back again, as they were moving up hill. The jerk
upset Behymer's balance, the bottom of his trousers caught in
a projecting nail in the running board and he was thrown between the cars. It is true that the jury might have drawn a
different conclusion from his evidence or have disbelieved it in
essential points, but they also were at liberty to find, as they
must be taken to have found, that the foregoing statement is
true. The car belonged to another road but was in the charge
of the defendant company, and, according to the statement of
the counsel for the plaintiff in error, had been inspected before
the accident, although we should have doubted whether the
testimony meant to go so far. Behymer based his claim upon
negligence in stopping the cars so suddenly with knowledge of
his position and the slippery condition of the-roof of the car,
and upon the projection of the nail, which increased the danger
and contributed to his fall. It should be added that by a
statute of Texas if there was negligence the fact that it was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

negligence of a fellow servant was not a defence.

189 U. S.

General

Laws, Texas, 1897, Special Session, c. 6, ยง 1; 2 Sayles, Texas
Civil Stat. 1897, art. 4560f.
The fundamental error alleged in the exceptions to the
charge is that the court declined to rule that the chance of such
an accident as happened was one of the risks that the plaintiff
assumed, or that the question whether the defendant was liable
for it depended on whether the freight train was handled in
the usual and ordinary way. Instead of that, the court left it
to the jury to say whether the train was handled with ordinary
care, that is, the care that a person of ordinary prudence
This exception
would use under the same circumstances.
one
of the commonembodied
charge
The
needs no discussion.
places of the law. What usually is done may be evidence of
what ought to be done, but what ought to be done is fixed by
a standard of reasonable prudence, whether it usually is complied with or not. Wabash Railway Co. v. .MtDaniels,107
No doubt a certain amount of bumping and jerking
U. S. 45.
is to be expected on freight trains, and, under ordinary circumstances, cannot be complained of. Yet it can be avoided if
necessary, and when the particular. and known condition of the
train makes a sudden bump obviously dangerous to those
known to be on top of the cars, we are not prepared to say that
a jury would not be warranted in finding that an easy stop is
a duty. If it was negligent to stop as the train did stop, the risk
of it was not assumed by the plaintiff. Texas & Pacikf'ic y. v.
Archibald, 170 U. S. 665, 672.
However, the plaintiff did not rely on the management of
the train alone. The projecting nail was another element in
his case. The jury were instructed with regard to that, that
the railroad company was not liable unless there was a nail
there improperly projecting, and a reasonable inspection would
have discovered and remedied the defect. The car was in the
custody of the company. There is no suggestion that the company had not had an opportunity to inspect, and the contrary
was assumed by a request for instructions on the part of the
company. Indeed, as we have said, its counsel interprets the
evidence as meaning that the car had been inspected before

UNIl'D STATES e. SWEET.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

the accident. It is not pressed that there was error on this
point. See Mackin v. Boston & Albany Railroad, 135 Massachusetts, 201 ; G lynn v. Central Railroad,175 Massachusetts,
510, 512. The jury were instructed properly on the subject of
assumption of risks and contributory negligence, and we think
it unnecessary to deal more specifically with this part of the
case.
It was argued that ]Behymer had aggravated the injury by
refusing proper surgical treatment. With regard to this the jury
were instructed in substance, but at more length, that it was
his duty to submit to all treatment that a reasonably prudent
person would have submitted to in order to improve his condition, and that no damages could be allowed which might have
been prevented by reasonable care. It is suggested that, as a
prudent man, he might have postponed recovery from his
injury to recovery of damages. The instructions plainly excluded such a view. The argument hardly is serious. We
have examined all the minute criticisms on the rulings and
refusals to rule, and discover no error. We deem it unnecessary
to answer them in greater detail.
J'udgment ofirined.

UNITED STATES v. SWEET.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 236. Argued and submitted April 15, 1903.-Decided April 27,1903.

An officer of volunteers in the United States Army who tenders his resignation and is honorably discharged is not entitled to travel pay and
commutation of subsistence, under Rev. Stat. ยง 1289, as amended by
the act of February 27, 1877, c. 69, 19 Stat. 243, fr6m the place of his
discharge to where he was mustered in.
This decision is in accord with the settled practice of the War Department
and the Treasury which has been to deny these allowances when the officer or soldier is discharged at his own request, for his own pleasure or
convenience. The weight of a contemporaneous and long continued
construction of a statute by those charged with its execution is well recognized in cases openjto reasonable doubt.

