SEXTON v. CALIFORNIA.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the President had the power to remove on other grounds than
those mentioned in the act, he exercised that power by appointing the appellant's successor for the time which elapsed between
such appointment and his reappointment after the meeting of
the Senate and his confirmation by that body.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Court of Claims
should be

Affl?-med.

SEXTON v. CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 155. Argued and submitted January 28, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Under sec. 5328, Rev. Stat., and the provisions of the Criminal Code
of California, the state courts of that State have concurrent jurisdiction
with the courts of the United States to try a person for extortion where
the basis of the extortion was a threat to accuse a person of having committed an act which is a crime exclusively against the United States and
made so by a Federal statute.
PLAINTIFF in error was convicted in the Superior Court of
the county of El Dorado, California, of the crime of extortion.
Judgment was entered, and, upon appeal to the Supreme
Court of California, it was there affirmed, 132 California, 37,
and the plaintiff in error brings the case here for review.
The indictment upon which the conviction was had alleged
that on June 20, 1898, at the county of El Dorado, State of
California, one S. H. Briggs and the plaintiff in errorc .
did wilfully, unlawfully and feloniously obtain
from one C. Greenwald certain personal property consisting of
money, the property of the said C. Greenwald, to the amount
and value of thirty dollars, with the consent of said Greenwald,
induced by the wrongful use and exercise upon him of fear by
means of a threat then and there made by the said John E.
Sexton and S,H. Briggs to accuse him, the said Greonwald, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

the crime of having, in violation of the laws of the United
States of America, sold and delivered cigars in a form other
than in a new box not before used for the purpose of packing
cigars therein, contrary to the form, force and effect of the
statute in such case made and provided."
After the finding of this indictment the defendant Sexton
moved the court to set it aside on various grounds, the ninth
being that the court had no jurisdiction of the offence charged
in the indictment, nor of the person of the defendant, and it
was contended that the Federal court alone had jurisdiction
over the act for which he was indicted in the state court. The
motion was denied and the defendant then pleaded not guilty.
Upon the trial the jury found the defendant guilty, as charged
in the indictment, and he was sentenced to be imprisoned in
the State's prison for the term of two years.
Argued by -lb'. James Parker for plaintiff in error.
John . Sexton was on the brief.

Mr.

Submitted by .Mr. U. S. Webb, attorney general of the State
of California, Mr'. Hlenry H. Glassie, b. 1R. TWoodland Diggs
and M'. George A. Sturtevant for defendant in error.
M .JUSTiCE PEOKHAM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The record now before us raises but a single question for our
determination, and that is whether the state court upon the
facts alleged in the indictment had any jurisdiction over the
subject matter.
The plaintiff in error contends that the right of the general
government to exercise jurisdiction over the crime of which he
was convicted is exclusive, and therefore the state court had
no right to try him upon the indictment found in that court.
The act of which the plaintiff in error is alleged to have
threatened to accuse Greenwald of committing is mentioned in
section 3392 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which
makes it an offence to sell cigars unless in new boxes, with the

SEXTON v. CALIFORNIA.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

exception therein detailed. Having created the offence above
described, Congress also provided for the punishment of the
offence of extortion by threats to accuse an individual of a
violation of the provisions of that, among other sections of the
internal revenue law.
Section 5481, Revised Statutes, provides that"Every person who shall receive any money or other valuable thing under a threat of informing, or as a consideration
for not informing against any violation of any internal revenue
law, shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding two thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or both, at the discretion of the court, with costs
of prosecution."
The provision prohibiting the sale of cigars in any but new
boxes is part of the internal revenue law.
By the twentieth subdivision of section 629, Revised Statutes,
there is given to the United States Circuit Courts"Exclusive cognizance of all crimes and offences cognizable
under the authority of the United States, except where it is or
may be otherwise provided by law, and concurrent jurisdiction
with the District Courts of crimes and offences cognizable
therein."
The Revised Statutes also provide:
"SEC. 111. The jurisdiction vested in the courts of the United
States in the cases and proceedings hereinafter mentioned, shall
be exclusive of the courts of the several States:
"First. Of all crimes and offences cognizable under the
authority of the United States."
Upon these various statutes the plaintiff in error founds his
contention that, as the offence which it is alleged in the indictment he threatened to accuse Greenwald of having committed
is one which exists solely under section 3392 of the Revised
Statutes, which creates it, and as section 54,84 provides the
penalty for extorting money by threatening to inforrh or as a
consideration for not informing against any violation of that
law, the authority to punish for extorting upon such grounds is
exclusively in the Federal courts.
On the other hand, it is claimed upon the part of the State
VOL. CLXXXIx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

that the offence of which the plaintiff in error has been convicted was one against the State, under sections 518 and 519 of
the Penal Code of the State of California.
Those sections provide that" Sxc. 518. Extortion is the obtaining of property from. another, with his consent, induced by a wrongful use of force or
fear, or under color of official right.
"Sx:c. 519. Fear such as will constitute extortion may be induced by a threat, either:
"2. To accuse him, or any relative of his or member of his
family, of any crime."
Upon this subject the Supreme Court of California said:
"In substance, it may be said that defendant threatened to
accuse Greenwald of violating the United States revenue laws,
and under fear induced by such threat secured from Greenwald
the aforesaid sum of thirty dollars. It is insisted that the facts
alleged do not constitute an offence against the laws of the
State of California, but, upon the contrary, constitute a crime
exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. We
find nothing in this contention. The defendant is charged with
the crime of extortion, an offence directly within the jurisdiction of the state courts. He is not charged with a violation of a
Federal statute, but with a violation of a state statute. He
threatened to accuse a man with the commission of a crime.
It makes no difference if that crime be one solely triable in the
Federal courts, for defendant is not being tried for that crime.
If he had threatened to have Greenwald arrested upon the
charge of counterfeiting the money of this country, and was
charged with the crime of extortion for that reason, clearly his
offence would be one against the laws of this State. It would
be extortion, as defined by the Penal Code of this State, and
this court would not be concerned as to whether or not defendant's crime was also punishable under Federal laws. The
court finds no substantial defect in the indictment, and the demurrer thereto is not well taken."
The case of counterfeiting the money of the United States
is excepted by statute from the law giving exclusive jurisdic-

SEXTON v. CALIFORNIA.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion to the United States courts of offences against the laws of
the United States. Fox v. State of Ohio, 5 How. 410; Houston
v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 26. It has also been held that the
United States could punish the crime of counterfeiting coin
under the Federal statute. The same act may be an offence
both against the State and the United States, punishable in
each jurisdiction under its laws.
The foundation of the claim of counsel for the State is the
statement that the defendant was not tried for or convicted of
an offence under the Federal statute, but the indictment simply
alleged that he extorted money by threatening to accuse Greenwald of an offence under the Federal statute. It was the extorting of the money by reason of fear induced by the threat
that constituted the crime, and that was a crime provided for
by the state statute, and it is insisted that the State is not prevented from trying the individual under that statute because
he might have been proceeded against in the Federal court
under a Federal statute (section 5484) of a somewhat similar
nature; that the threat to accuse another of crime is the material matter in the state statute, and it is not material that
the threat was pointed at a crime made such only by the Federal statute.
It is true that the offence of extortion by threats to accuse a
person of a violation of any part of the internal revenue law
is made a crime by virtue of the Federal statute. If there
were no statute in regard to the sale of cigars other than in new
boxes, as provided for in section 3392 of the Revised Statutes,
a threat to accuse a person of doing such an act would not be
a threat to accuse him of any crime, and hence would not be
punishable. As the crime itself exists only by virtue of the
above section and as the threat to accuse one of the commission
of such an act is also provided for by another section, there
might be some plausibility in the contention of the plaintiff in
error that, under the Federal statutes above cited, jurisdiction
of the United States courts was exclusive. We do not decide
that such contention is well or ill founded, nor do we express
an opinion thereon, because we do not regard it as necessary for
our decision in this case.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

The section which makes it an offence to extort money under
a threat of informing in regard to an alleged violation of any
internal revenue law (section 5484) is contained in title 70, denominated "Crimes," in the United States Revised Statutes,
and in that title is found another section, which provides that"S Fc. 5328. Nothing in this title shall be held to take away
or impair the jurisdiction of the courts of the several States
under the laws thereof."
Assuming that, but for this section, the state court would be
without jurisdiction, we are of opinion that it takes the case
out of the provisions of the other sections of the Revised Statutes above cited, namely, the twentieth subdivision of section
629, and section 711. Section 5328 must be construed as creating an exception to the general rule declared in these other
sections in regard to the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.
The New York Court of Appeals placed the same construction
on that section, in a very well reasoned opinion prepared by
Andrews, Ch. J., in the case of People v. Welch, 141 N. Y.
266-277. Although section 3392 is the sole foundation for the
creation of the offence which the plaintiff in error threatened
to accuse Greenwald of having committed, yet the jurisdiction
of the state courts is neither taken away nor impaired on that
account. The state statute provides for the punishment of the
crime of extortion, committed as therein described, and when the
Federal statute creates the crime the threat to accuse a person
of the commission of such crime becomes itself a crime under
the state statute, and the Federal statute which provides for extortion does not take away or impair the jurisdiction of the
courts of the several States under their laws to proceed and
punish as is therein provided for.
The jurisdiction of the state court over the crime of extortion when perpetrated under the circumstances stated in the
indictment is at least concurrent with that of the courts of the
United States.
The section (5328) was not intended to merely permit a state
court to punish a different offence involved in the one act. It
was intended to leave with the state court, unimpaired, the

FOSTER v. PRYOR.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

same jurisdiction over the act that it would have had if Congress had not passed an act on the subject.
There is, also as we think, considerable weight to be attached
to the contenti6n that the Federal statute is not essentially the
same as the state statute regarding extortion. In the state
statute it is specified that the property must be obtained from
another with his consent, and that such consent must be induced by a wrongful use of force or fear, while those words are
lacking in the other statute. Without expressing an opinion
upon the question whether the indictment and conviction could
be sustained without the provisions of section 5328, Revised
Statutes, we hold that, taking such section into consideration,
the state court had jurisdiction in this case. The judgment,
therefore, must be

Affirmed.

FOSTER v. PRYOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 173. Argued and submitted February 25, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
When the difference is deep and radical between two domains in which the
same kind of property may be situated, the law which makes them one
district for taxation, so that all the property of the same kind in the
same district must be taxed alike, and no reasonable distinction be permitted, must itself be so plain and urgent that no other intention can be
suggested.
There is no provision in the act of Congress of 1890 organizing Oklahoma,
or in the territorial act of 1886, which was violated by the act of 1899,
p. 216, Session Laws of Oklahoma, which provides that only taxes for
territorial and, court funds shall be assessed, levied or collected in any
unorganized country, district or reservation attached to any county for
judicial purposes, and the effect of which is to tax property in an organized county for more purposes, thereby making a different and higher
rate than similar property is taxed in the unorganized territory attached
to such county.
THIS is an action to enjoin the payment of certain taxes levied
upon property belonging to the appellees (plaintiffs below) and

