UNITED STATES, 0. NIX.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.*

control the administration of the maritime law by creating and
superadding conditions for the benefit of a particular class of
creditors, and thereby depriving the owners of vessels of defences to which they would otherwise have been entitled, is an
unlawful interference with that jurisdiction, and to that extent
is unconstitutional and void.
The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and the
case remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the

libels.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

concurred in the result.

UNITED STATES v. NIX.
NIX v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 142, 195. Submitted December 18, 1902.-Decided MNarch 2, 1903.
1. Under sec. 829, Rev. Stat., a United States marshal may elect to be reimbursed his actual travelling expenses incurred in serving writs, but
there is no authority in law for allowing him mileage in excess of the
distance from the place of arrest to the place of receiving the writs, even
if the travel is in a new and unsettled Indian country and there are exceptional difficulties to overcome.
2. Where a United States court is opened for business by order of the
judge, it is the duty of the marshal to attend and he is entitled to his
per diem fee therefor whether the judge be present or not.
3. A general act is not to be construed as applying to cases covered by a
prior special act on the same subject. The marshal for the District of
Oklahoma is entitled to fees for transportation of prisoners arrested under
warrants issued by United States commissioners as fixed by the statute
providing atemporary government for the Territory of Oklahoma, notwithstanding the provisions of the act of Congress of August 19, 1894, applicable to marshals generally throughout the country. The fact that a
marshal's accounts have been approved by a district judge is sufficient to
cast upon the government the burden of showing any error of fact in his
account.
4. Where the marshal charged for travel in transporting a prisoner who

OCTOBtR TtRM, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

189 ty. S.

escaped from his custody, and there was no finding, either by the district judge in approving his accounts, or by the Court of Claims, of due
diligence on the part of the officer to prevent the escape, the item was
held to be properly disallowed, the presumption being that the prisoner
escaped by negligence.

THis is a petition for marshal's fees for the District of Oklahoma, upon which the Court of Claims made the findings of
fact set forth in the margin.' 36 C. C1. 593 ; 36 C. C1. 598.
.A-r. Assistant Attorney General Pradt and ilr. Assistant
Attorney Brannigan for the United States.
.Mr.FrankB. Crosthwaite and .MX'. Franklin H. MAackey for

Nix.
Mr. JUSTICE BRowN, after maling the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Item 2 of the third finding, namely, "travelling 1153 miles
1 I. The claimant, Evett D. Nix, was United States marshal for the District of Oklahoma from July 1, 1893, to February 24, 1896, appointed, qualified and acting.
Il. During said period the claimant, as such marshal, by his deputies,
performed services and travel and incurred expenses in behalf of the United
States, and his accounts therefor, verified by his oath and approved by the
court in accordance with the law, were finally acted upon by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department, and part thereof was allowed and
paid, but a*part thereof, as more specifically set forth in Finding III, was
disallowed, and no portion thereof has been paid to the claimant.
III. Item 2. To travel, 1153 miles in going to serve warrants of arrest, at
six cents per mile, $69.18, being for travel in excess of the distance from
the place of arrest to the place of receiving writs. The travel charged for
was in a new and unsettled Indian country, without post offices, post
routes or section lines. The defendants were moving about from place to
place to avoid arrest, and it was necessary to travel a circuitous route.
The deputies had to find fordable places to cross the river to locate the defendants, there being no bridges. After arrest the defendants were taken
by the most direct routes to commissioners for examination.
Item 10. For attendance of the marshal at court, by deputy, for twenty
days, at $5 per day, $100.00.
It does not appear whether business was transacted in the court on said
days, although the court was opened for business by order of the judge. It
does not appear that the judge was present at court on any of these days.

tJNL'ED STA'TPS v. Nl .
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in going to serve warrants of arrest, at six cents per mile,
$69.18," involves the question whether travel in excess of the
distance from the place of service to the place of receiving the
writs can be allowed, in view of the fee bill for marshals. Rev.
Stat. sec. 829, provides "for travel, in going only, to serve any
process, warrant, attachment, or other writ, including writs of
subpoena in civil or criminal cases, six cents a mile, to be computed from the place where the process is returned to the place
of service." This has always been interpreted to mean by the
usual travelled route, Hitch v. United States, 66 Fed. Rep. 937,
the length of which is not given in the finding. The excuse
for not pursuing the route in this case is that it was a new and
unsettled Indian country ; that defendants were moving about
from place to place to avoid arrest, and it was necessary to
travel a circuitous route; and that, in the absence of bridges,
the deputies had to find fordable places to cross the river to
locate the defendants.
Item 12. This item was charged in claimant's accounts as transportation
of prisoners, deputies and guards from the several places of arrest, for
hearing before the United States commissioners, whose offices were nearest
the places where the crimes for which the prisoners were arrested were
committed. The number of miles charged in claimant's accounts for this
travel was fifty-one thousand three hundred and fifty-five miles, at ten cents
a mile, amounting to five thousand one hundred and thirty-five dollars and
fifty cents.
Those accounts were submitted to the United States District Court for
Oklahoma under the provisions of the act of February 22, 1875, 18 Stat.
333, and the said accounts, including this item, as above charged, were approved by that court. When the accounts so approved were submitted to
the accounting officers, all the charges for travel included in that item were
disallowed by them under the provisions of the sundry civil appropriation
act of August 18, 1894, 28 Stat. 372-416, which made it the duty of the marshal to take the defendants before the nearest Circuit Court commissioner
or the nearest judicial officer having jurisdiction under existing laws, for a
hearing, commitment, or taking bail for trial. Subsequently the accounting officers allowed and paid claimant of this item twenty-seven dollars.
After suit was brought in this court, the claimant's deposition was taken
in respect to this item, and lie proved that, of his own knowledge, eleven
thousand four hundred and thirty-three miles were traveled in the transportation of said prisoners, deputies and guards. As to the remainder of
the travel he could not testify of his own knowledge, because that travel
had been performed by certain of his deputies who were not then in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

However equitable the charge may have been in this particular case, there is no authority of law for its allowance. There
is, however, a special provision in the last clause of sec. 829,
by which "in all cases where mileage is allowed to the marshal
he may elect to receive the same or his actual travelling expenses, to be proved on his oath, to the satisfaction of the court."
This seems to contemplate the very contingency which arose
in this case, of a number of miles actually and necessarily travelled in excess of the direct route from the place where the process was returned to the place of service. It reimburses the
marshal his expenses but denies him a profit upon them. This
item must be disallowed.
(2.) Item 10. "For attendance of the marshal at court by
deputy, 20 days at 85 per day, 8100." The fact that it did not
appear whether business was transacted in court on these days,
or whether the judge was present in court, was immaterial, in
Territory, and who, he supposed, were in Alaska or the Philippine Islands.
The depositions of those deputies were not taken. No other evidence was
offered by the claimant to establish the number of miles actually traveled
than the approval of the District Court for Oklahoma and his own deposition subsequently taken, as above stated. If the approval of his account
by said District Court is competent evidence to establish the number of
miles actually traveled, this court finds the ultimate fact that he traveled
51,355 miles. If such approval of the District Court is incompetent to establish the number of miles actually traveled, this court finds that the
number of miles so traveled was 11,433 in the transportation of prisoners,
deputies and guards, as before set forth.
Item 16. For service of a capias and transportation (mileage) of a deputy,
prisoner and guard. The capias was issued by the clerk of the United
States District Court at Topeka, Kansas, on an indictment found by the
grand jury at Topeka. The capias was received by the claimant in Oklahoma City and was executed by arresting the prisoner named in the capias,
who was transported to the United States District Court at Wichita, Kansas.
The claimant charged six cents a mile for going sixty-two miles, from
Oklahoma City to Perry, to serve the writ, $2 for the service of the writ,
and ten cents per mile each for the deputy, prisoner and guard for 111 miles,
$33.30, from Perry, Oklahoma, to Wichita, Kansas, and one meal for the
prisoner, 75 cents, making a total of $39.77.
Item 24. For actual expenses for transporting a prisoner from Springfield, Ohio, to the penitentiary at Brooklyn, New York, under a warrant of
commitment. The warrant of commitment was issued at Oklahoma, and
the marshal transported the prisoner on that warrant to Springfield, Ohio,

UNITED STATIS v. NIX.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

view of the fact that the court was opened for business by order
of the judge.

United States v. Finnell, 185 U. S. 236; .Mc-

Mullen v. United States, 146 U. S. 360. For aught that appears, the attendance may have been under the circumstances
in which a similar charge was allowed in United States v. Pitman, 147 U. S. 669. Where the court is opened for business
by order of the judge, it is the duty of the marshal to attend,
and there is no reason why he should not receive his per diem
therefor as if the judge were actually present. This claim is
not contested by the government, and should be allowed.
(3.) Item 12, for the transportation of prisoners arrested under warrants issued by United States commissioners, involves
two questions: first, whether travel should have been charged
from the place of arrest to the nearest Circuit Court commissioner, or to the office of the commissioner nearest to the place
where the crimes with which the prisoners were charged were
committed; second, whether, assuming the position of the claimant in this particular to be correct, as matter of law, there was
sufficient evidence of the number of miles travelled to entitle him
to the charge of $5135.50.
By "An act to provide a temporary government for the Territory of Oklahoma," 26 Stat. 81, a certain portion of the Indian Territory was set off as a territorial government under the
where the prisoner was temporarily detained as a witness for the United
States in a counterfeiting case. The prisoner having been discharged as a
witness in that case at Springfield the marshal continued his transportation
from Springfield to New York city on the original warrant of commitment.
The prisoner, with a deputy and guard, arrived in New York city too late
for the prisoner to be received at the Brooklyn penitentiary on the day of
arrival in New York, and he escaped from the custody of the deputy on
the night of the same day while they were going to supper in the hotel
where they were stopping. The marshal made every effort to retake the
prisoner aud failed, $90.50.
Conclusion of Law.
Upon the foregoing findings of fact the court decides, as a conclusion of
law, that the claimant recover judgment of and from the United States in
the sum of one hundred and eight dollars and ninety-five cents ($108.95)
on items 2 and 16 of Finding III.
All other items disallowed.

0CTOBER TERl, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

name of Oklahoma. By section 9 the judicial power of the
Territory was vested in certain courts, and the usual executive
and judicial offices created. By section 10, "persons charged
with any offence or crime in the Territory of Oklahoma, and
for whose arrest a warrant has been issued, may be arrested by
the United States marshal or any of his deputies, wherever
found in said Territory, but in all cases the accused shall be
taken, for preliminary examination, before a United States commissioner, or a justice of the peace of the county, whose office
is nearest to the place where the offence or crime is committed.
All offences committed in said Territory, if committed within
any organized county, shall be prosecuted and tried within said
county." By section 28, "the Constitution and all the laws of
the United States not locally inapplicable shall, except so far as
modified by this act, have the same force and effect as elsewhere
within the United States."
This is the act upon which the claimant relies for his right to
travel, while, upon the other hand, the government contends
that this act was repealed by a general act of August 18, 1894,
28 Stat. 372, making appropriations for sundry civil expenses
for the year 1895, one of the clauses of which, under the head
of "Judicial," provides that "it shall be the duty of the marshal, his deputy, or other officer, who may arrest a person
charged with any crime or offence, to take the defendant before the nea'est Circuit Court commissioner or the veapest judicial officer having jurisdiction under existing laws for a hearing,
commitment, or taking bail for trial, and the officer or magistrate issuing the warrant shall attach thereto a certified copy of
the complaint, . . . and no mileage shall be allowed any
officer violating the provisions hereof."
The object of this statute was manifestly to amend Rev. Stat.
sec. 829, which provided that the mileage of the marshal for
transportation of prisoners should be computed from the place
where the process was served to the place where it was returned.
This statute provides that he shall be taken to the Circuit Court
commissioner nearest the place of arrest, regardless of the fact
by whom the warrant was issued. Inasmuch as the later act
is a general one, applicable to marshals generally throughout

UNITED STATES r'. NIX.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the country, we do not think it was intended to repeal or interfere with the former act, providing specially for persons charged
with any offence or crime in the Territory of Oklahoma, and that
in all cases, whether the crime was committed against the Territory or the general government, the accused shall be taken
before a commissioner, whose office is nearest to the place
where the offence or crime was committed.
The rule of statutory construction is well settled that a general act is not to be construed as applying to cases covered by
a prior special act upon the same subject. On this principle we
held in Townsend v. Little, 109 U. S. 504, that special and general statutory provisions may subsist together, the former qualifying the latter. See also Churchill v. Crease, 5 Bing. 1-77;
3Magone v. King, 51 Fed. Rep. 525, and cases cited; State v.
Clarke, 25 N. J. Law, 54.
It would seem that this construction works no particular
hardship upon the government, since in all cases where the
criminal is unable to give bail he is required to be ultimately
transported for trial to the county wherein the crime was comnitted.
The second question connected with this item is whether the
marshal produced sufficient evidence of the number of miles
travelled. His claim was for 51,350 miles at ten cents per mile.
He was unable to prove, of his own knowledge, more than 11,433
miles. As to the remainder he could not testify of his own knowledge, because that travel had been performed by certain of his
deputies who were not then in the Territory, and who, he supposed, were in Alaska or the Philippine Islands. The depositions of those deputies were not taken. He showed, however,
that his accounts had been allowed by the district judge. That
was sufficient to cast upon the government the burden of showing any error of fact in his account. United States v. Jones,
134 U. S. 483. In that case we held that the approval of the
commissioner's account by a Circuit Court of the United States,
under the act of February 22, 1875, 18 Stat. 333, was prima
facie evidence of the correctness of the items of that account,
and, in the absence of clear and unquestionable proof of mistake on the part of the court, it should be conclusive. We

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

adhere to that view. It would be an insupportable burden
upon the officers of courts if, every time a question was made
before the accounting officers of the Treasury of the correctness of their account, they were required to produce affirmative
evidence of every item. This was evidently not contemplated
by the statute. Notwithstanding this, however, there is no
doubt that the account may be impeached for error of law.
.a'kfullen v. United States, 146 U. S. 360. This item should
have been allowed in full, less the amount paid.
(4.) Item 24, for actual expenses in transporting a prisoner
from Springfield, Ohio, to the penitentiary at Brooklyn, New
York, under a warrant of commitment, is the only other one
contested. The prisoner with a deputy and guard arrived in
New York too late for the prisoner to be received at the
Brooklyn penitentiary on the same day, and that night he escaped from the custody of the deputy while they were going
to supper in the hotel where they were staying.
As there is no finding, either by the district judge in approving his accounts or by the Court of Claims of due diligence on
the part of the officer to prevent the escape, the item was properly disallowed. The presumption is that he escaped by negligence. State v. runter, 94 N. C. 829 ; State v. Lewis&, 113
N. C. 622; Shattuck v. State, 51 Mississippi, 575.
The judgment of the Court of Claims will therefore be reversed and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

