McCLUNG v. PENNY.
189 U. S.

,

Syllabus.

had spent their force and the surety company became responsible for all the damages attributable directly to the attachments. The failure to further deliver logs, and the reflection
on the credit of the Bucki Company by the bringing of the actions may also have damaged or added to the damages of the
Bucki Company, but such result was not due to the attachments. The Atlantic Company and not the surety company
was the party responsible therefor.
Neither can we see that there was error in refusing to discharge the jury and postpone the trial. A postponement or
continuance is largely within the discretion of the trial court,
and unless that discretion is shown to have been abused there
is no sufficient ground for reversal. It does not appear that
any witness had been discharged or any books or documents
in possession of the counsel sent away during the trial, and
there was no offer then and there to present further testimony.
It does not seem to us that the Bucki Company was prejudiced
by the ruling of the court in this respect.
The liability for counsel fees and the true measure of damages are the main questions in the case. This latter question
was presented in different forms and with various limitations,
but we think the rulings of the trial court thereon were substantially correct. We see no error in the record which justifies a reversal of the judgment, and it is
Affirmed.

McCLUNG v. PENNY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 384. Argued MIarch 6, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

It must appear that this court has jurisdiction of the case before it can inquire whether the territorial court has committed any error in its decision or in permitting the action to be maintained, and such jurisdiction
does not exist if the value of that which is in controversy does not exceed $5000.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Where it appears that the matter in dispute is only the possession of certain public land for which a contested entry has been made and it is clear
the
from the facts that such possession is worth much less than $5000,
judgment of the territorial court will not be reviewed.
The relinquishment of rights under a homestead or pregmption entry opens
has
the land to entry by another; and a second entryman may, if there
has
there
that
show
records
the
if
but
title,
a
perfect
contest,
no
been
been a contest and the successful contestant relinquishes, a party subsequently entering the land is charged with notice of the equitable rights
title
of the unsuccessful contestant which can be enforced whenever the
passes from the government.

Tins was an action of forcible entry and detainer, commenced
by Penny, the defendant in error, in the Probate Court of Kay
County, Oklahoma Territory, a court adjudged by the Supreme
Court of the Territory to have jurisdiction in such actions by
virtue of sec. &S05, art. 13, chap. 67, and sec. 1562, art. 15,
chap. 18, Rev. Stat. 1893. A judgment for the plaintiff was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, 11 Oklahoma,
474, and tiereupon the case was brought here on a writ of error. The testimony on the trial developed these facts: The
parties contested in the Land Department the right to enter
the tract in controversy as a homestead. The plaintiff's contention was sustained, and he was permitted to make entry.
Ilaving received the homestead certificate, he commenced this
action.
_31r. S. -. H:arrisfor plaintiff in error.
ton was with him on the brief.

Mr. J.

. Da'ling-

.211. A. G. C. Bierer for defendant in error. -Mr. Frank
Dale and X r. C I. 1_cRansom were with him on the brief.
INI. JusricE BEEWEr, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error has filed a motion to dismiss the writ
of error for want of jurisdiction, on the ground that the value
of the matter in controversy does not exceed $5000, and in
support thereof has filed the affidavits of himself and five

IcCLUNG v. PENNY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

others that the reasonable rental value of the land is not
more than $620 per .annum. The plaintiff in error contends
that the matter in dispute is in fact not the possession of the
land but the ownership, and at the time the writ of error was
allowed he filed the affidavits of four persons, one his counsel,
who testified that the action involved both the possession and
the ownership of the lands, that the matter in controversy exceeded in value the sum of $6000, that the value consisted in
the right of possession and power to relinquish to the government the homestead entry; the others, who stated that the
value of such relinquishment was $8000 or $8500. The record
shows that in the answer was this averment: "That said land
with the improvements of the defendant thereon is reasonably
worth and the relinquishment thereof could be sold for the sum
of $5000 ; that this defendant demands the right to remain in
possession of said land by virtue of her vested interest therein,
and as against the claims of said plaintiff under his void and
unlawful homestead entry, in order to protect the limited title
which defendant has acquired in said land, and to acquire a perfect legal title therein, under and by virtue of the laws of the
United States ;"and also that on the trial she testified that the
value of the land was $5000. In her answer she set up facts
which she insisted showed that she had an equitable right to
the land, and averred that she intended as soon as the patent
was issued to the plaintiff to begin an action in the proper
court to have the same declared a title in trust for her benefit,
and asserted that by reason thereof an action of forcible entry
and detainer could not be maintained against her. The Supreme Court of the Territory, in affirming the judgment, held
that the matter in controversy was simply the right of possession. It closed its opinion in these words:
"This court in the case of Zintley v. Dykes, 10 Oklahoma,
18, says: 'When the matter was finally decided by the Land
Department, and a judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff,

her right to the possession of the premises was completed.' Armour Packing Co. v. Howe, 64 Pac. Rep. 43; Wideman v. Taylo', 65 Pac. Rep. 615. The entire theory of this action is that
it is purely possessory. That it deals with the possessory rights
VOL. CLXXXIX-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

and not the ultimate rights of the parties.

189 U. S.

Questions other

than the immediate rights of the parties cannot be litigated in
such action. If the party desires to have an adjudication on
her right to a resulting trust in the land, she must resort to another forum, and another form of action."
Affidavits on the motion to dismiss show the value of possession to be not more than $64:0 per annum. Her own allegation
in the answer is that the land and the relinquishment thereof
were reasonably worth $5000. Her testimony on the trial, and
there was none other, was that the land was worth $5000. Affidavits of witnesses assert that the ownership was in controversy and that the value of that ownership with the right of
relinquishment was in excess of $5000.
Upon these facts we think the motion to dismiss should be
sustained. The matter in dispute being only the possession,
clearly the value of that possession was but a few hundred dollars. Even if the title had been in controversy, the record up
to the time of the decision of the Supreme Court showed that
there was not exceeding $5000 in controversy. The Supreme
Court held that the matter in dispute was only the right of possession, and that right of possession was all that it decided. If
the question of title was involved an action of forcible entry
and detainer could not have been maintained, and the Probate
Court had no jurisdiction of an action of ejectment. But before we can inquire whether the Supreme Court committed any
error in its decision it must appear that we have jurisdiction
of the case. Now whether the Supreme Court erred in permitting this forcible entry action to be maintained involves an inquiry whether it erred in permitting an action to be maintained
in respect to something whose value is less than $5000. If that
which alone could be in contest in the action and which alone
was determined by the judgment is of a value less than $5000,
then it is beyond our jurisdiction to inquire whether the court
erred in permitting the action to be maintained.
Further, neither of the four witnesses whose affidavits were
filed to secure the writ of error testified directly to the value
of the land, and while they said that the value of the relinquishment was from $6000 to $8500, yet clearly the value of a re-

McCLUNG v. PENNY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

linquishment cannot be greater than that of the land itself. But
what is the relinquishment to which these witnesses refer ? When
one has made a homestead or preemption entry he may file in
the land office a relinquishment of all rights obtained thereby,
and if he does so the land becomes open to entry by another.
If there has been no contest and the land records are free from
any other claim than that which is relinquished, the second entryman may perfect a title. But if the records of the land office show that there has been a contest, and the successful contestant makes a relinquishment, a third party entering the land
is charged with notice of the equitable rights of the unsuccessful contestant; and if, as a matter of law, those rights are entitled to protection, they can be enforced whenever the legal
title has passed from the government. In other words, the
relinquishment operates only against the party making the relinquishment and does not destroy any adverse rights of which
there is in the land office an existing record. The plaintiff, although possession be obtained by him through this forcible entry and detainer action, cannot, by thereafter relinquishing his
entry, and permitting some one else to make an entry, destroy
the equitable rights, if any, which defendant possesses. Hence,
as a relinquishment will not deprive the defendant of her equitable rights, and simply substitutes one party for another in any
legal proceedings which she may hereafter institute to assert
those rights, it is clear that it cannot have any such value as is
ascribed to it in these affidavits.
The writ of error is
.Dimsed.

