OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

property held in trust, because he held none, is met by the fact
that he applied for an abatement of this tax, and that, after
several hearings upon the case, it was refused him. .Kentucy
]Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 335.
There was nothing in the proceedings of which the plaintiff
had any right to complain as a violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and the judgment of the Superior Court is therefore
MR. JusTicE WHITE, not having heard the argument, took no
part in the decision of this case.

WISER v. LAWLER.
ATPPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 174. Argued February 25, 26, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

Promoters of mining enterprises, in the preparation of prospectuses, are
bound to consider the effect that would be produced upon an ordinary
mind by the statements contained in them, and in estimating the probability of persons being misled by them, the court may take into consideration not only the facts stated, but the facts suppressed.
Vendors of mining properties are not responsible for false statements made
in prospectuses issued by a mining company to whom the properties had
been sold, unless they knew or connived in such statements, or were active in putting them in circulation. While they may have known that
prospectuses were being issued, they were under no obligation to read
them, or contradict their statements or promises, or interfere with their
circulation or distribution.
If their title be of record, they are not bound to give notice of their rights
in the property to the purchasers of stock, or to refuse the money due
upon their contract of sale when it is tendered them.
To constitute an estoppel bysilence there must not only be an opportunity
but an obligation to speak, and the purchase must have been iq reljance
2
°
upon the conduct of the party sought to be estopped. £21,5./,
upon record, is
placed
has
he
which
property
of
a
deed
holding
person
A
not ordinarily bound to disclose his title to persons contemplating purchasing, or making improvements upon the land, unless his silence be
deceptive, or accompanied by an intention to defraud.

THis was a complaint in the nature of a bill in equity filed in
the District Court of Yavapai County, Arizona, by appellants,

WISER v. LAWLER.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

for themselves and all others interested, against John Lawler
and Edward W. Wells, principal defendants, and the Seven
Stars Gold Mining Company, The Industrial Mining and Guaranty Company and John Griffin, receiver of such companies, to
adjudge Lawler and Wells to be estopped from disputing the
title of the Seven Stars Company to certain mining properties,
and to decree such properties to belong to that company, and
for an account of the proceeds of all ore taken from the mines
and received by defendants Lawler and Wells, or, in the alternative, for a money decree against them for the aggregate
amount paid by plaintiffs and others for stock in the company,
upon the representations contained in certain prospectuses and
maps, by which the plaintiffs were induced to purchase stock in
such company, and for a confirmation of the title to the property in such defendants.
The cause came on for hearing upon the pleadings, and at
first resulted in an interlocutory decree in favor of the plaintiffs, with an order for an accounting by defendants. The case
was then referred to a master to report the number of shares in
the Seven Stars Company subscribed and paid for, and to ascertain the amount paid to defendants Lawler and Wells on account of the purchase price of the property. This was finally
fixed at the sum of $180,139.82, which was held to be a lien,
and the property was ordered sold in satisfaction thereof. A
new trial was subsequently granted, upon the hearing of which,
upon pleadings and evidence, it was held that plaintiffs were
entitled to no relief, and the complaint was dismissed, and an
appeal taken to the Supreme Court of Arizona, which affirmed
the decree of dismissal. 62 Pac. Rep. 695.
The Supreme Court made a finding of facts in sixty-four paragraphs, which is quite too long to be reproduced here, but
which may be summarized as follows:
In May, 1892, the defendants Lawler and Wells were the
owners of the legal title to a collection of mines known as the
"Hillside Group," the muniments of such title being of record
in the county recorder's office of Yavapai County.
Lawler and Wells offered these mines for sale at $450,000
cash, and on May 12 one Warner visited the mines and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

tracted for their purchase for $450,000, paying $20,000 in cash,
the remainder to be paid in installments in accordance with the
terms of an escrow agreement entered into between Lawler and
Wells and one Cowland. This agreement provided, among other
things, that a deed conveying the mines to Cowland be held in
escrow by the Bank of Arizona and be delivered upon paying
the full sum of $450,000 ; and that upon the failure of the payments the deed should be redelivered to Lawler and Wells and
all payments be forfeited. Cowland agreed that all moneys
paid by him should belong to Lawler and Wells and should be
retained by them as liquidated damages accruing from the
failure to pay for the property, and Lawler and Wells be released from any obligation to convey the property. It was
further agreed that Cowland might take possession of the
property, develop and operate it, the proceeds to be paid to
the vendors and credited upon the purchase price; that Lawler
and Wells should, nevertheless, remain in legal possession of
the property until full payment, but should not work it or interfere with its operation by Cowland. It was further agreed
that, should Cowland fail to make any payments, all improvements on the property and ore taken therefrom should be the
property of Lawler and Wells. A deed of the property was executed to Cowland and placed in escrow as above stated. Warner was the real party in interest and Cowland only his agent.
On June 14, Warner and Cowland, with some others, incorporated the Industrial Mining and Guaranty Company for the
purpose of handling mines and buying and selling stock, to
which company Cowland delivered a written assignment of all
his interest in the escrow agreement, as well as a deed of the
mining properties with a covenant of warranty against incumbrances. The new company assumed all the covenants of
Cowland in the escrow agreement, to make the payments
therein stipulated, and to procure the escrow deed then in the
hands of the Bank of Arizona. Possession of the properties
was delivered to the new company with full knowledge on its
part of the terms of the escrow agreement. The company remained in possession until October 1, 1892.
On August 15, 1892, Warner and several others incorporated

WISER v. LAWLER.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

the Seven Stars Gold Mining Company under the laws of New
Jersey, of which certain persons, including one of the plaintiffs,
were elected directors. About the same time the Guaranty
Company offered to sell and convey all its interests in certain
mining properties, including a part of those described in the
escrow agreement, to the Seven Stars Company, upon receiving
$2,800,000 in cash of stock of such company. On October 1
the Guaranty Company placed the Seven Stars Company in
possession of the Hillside Group, with full knowledge on the
part of the latter of the terms of the escrow agreement.
The Guaranty Company, as the agent of the Seven Stars Company, issued in September, 1892, a prospectus, known as the
American prospectus, to promote the sale of the stock of the Seven
Stars Company, 300,000 of which prospectuses, accompanied by a
map and an application for subscription to stock, were circulated
throughout the United States. In October, 1892, the Guaranty
Company directed the issuing of an English prospectus, which
was never circulated, but another, issued without the authority
of the Guaranty Company or the Seven Stars Company, was
prepared, supervised and circulated by Cowland. The descriptive matter in this prospectus was obtained from data furnished
by the officers of the Guaranty Company. The circulation of
this prospectus amounted to 80,000 copies, and accompanying
each copy was a map and application for subscription to stock;
but neither Lawler nor Wells had any knowledge or information that this prospectus had been or was being circulated in England, or had any knowledge of its contents until some time in
October, 1893. The further material facts are set forth in the
opinion.
Mrb'.
lants.

"
. F. Gallagher and M1r1. G. W. f-ietzinger for appel-

.116'. William C. ScarriUt and 1'. H C. .Xf.Dougal for appellees. _Mr. E. L. Scarritt was on the brief.
BiowN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTIc

The principal defendants to this suit are Lawler and Wells,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

(hereinafter termed "the defendants ") and the case turns upon
their complicity in and responsibility for the contents of the
prospectuses, which are full of exaggerated and delusive statements, and were undoubtedly a gross fraud upon persons who
took stock upon the faith of their exuberant promises. Indeed, they were of such a character as to create surprise that
intelligent investors should have believed their statements to be
true. The representation upon which the greatest reliance is
placed is that contained in the American prospectus; that "the
titles are unquestionable, to the Seven Stars, Hillside, Happy
Jack and other mines, being held under United States patents;"
and in the English prospectus, that "the mines owned by the
company are situated in the Eureka mining district, Yavapai
County, Arizona," and that "the. title is indefeasible, being
United States patents to five claims, together with several locations as easements."
Attached to these prospectuses was a map entitled "MAlap of
the group of mines belonging to the Seven Stars Gold Mining
Company." It is true that there is neither in the prospectuses
nor in the map a distinct assertion that the legal title to the
properties mentioned was vested in the Seven Stars Company;
but we think that no one can read them without inferring and
believing that the Seven Stars was the owner of these properties, and that the net proceeds of their operation would be distributed in dividends to stockholders. As they were circulated
as an inducement to take stock in the enterprises, we are bound
to interpret them by the effect they would produce upon an ordinary mind. Andrews v. .foclford, (1896) 1 Q. B. D. 372.
They were, however, even more damaging in their omissions
than in their statements. No mention was made of the fact
that the title to these properties stood in the names of Lawler
and Wells; no allusion to the Cowland agreement, with its provisions for forfeiture, nor to the fact that the only interest of
the company was an equitable right to the properties after the
sum of $450,000 had been realized from the profits and paid to
defendants. In estimating the probability of subscribers being
misled by these prospectuses we may take into consideration not
only the facts stated, but the facts suppressed. Hfew Bru.-

WISER v. LAWLER.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wick &c. Co. v. 7luggeridge, 1 Drewry & Smale, 363. They
are entitled to know the cons as well as the _ros. Gluckstein v.
Barnes, (1900) App. Gas. 240; Hubbard v. lMeare, 79 Iowa,
678; Hayward v. -Leeson, 176 Massachusetts, 310; 1n re Leeds
and Hanley Theatres, (1902) 2 Oh. Div. 809.
It does not appear, however, that these defendants were
promoters or interested in the organization of the Guaranty
Company, or the Seven Stars Company, or in tile sale of the
capital stock of such companies, although they knew that
Warner's intention was to incorporate a company, and, to use
the language of one of the defendants, " work it for all there
was in it." As they were not concerned in the methods used
to procure subscriptions to stock, or in the statements made in
the prospectuses, it is difficult to see how they can be held
responsible, unless they are made so by the fact that they knew
and connived in the misstatements as to the title of the coinpany. But while they might have known that the prospectuses
were being issued, they were under no obligation to read them
or contradict their exaggerated statements and promises. In
their agreement with Cowland they had stipulated that he, or
his assignee, should explore, work and operate the property,
and they could not have failed to know that this would be done
through a company organized for that purpose. Such company
would be authorized to issue prospectuses and obtain subscriptions to stock as best it could, and clearly defendants were not
bound to supervise its methods in doing so, or render themselves responsible for statements made by the company, provided they did not indorse them. There were no relations between them and the purchasers of the capital stock, and no duty
on their part to interfere with the circulation and distribution of
the prospectuses and maps, or to inform the subscribers personally that they were the owners of the legal title to the property. They had the right to rely, so far as respected these
companies and their stockholders, upon the fact that their title
was of record, and was notice of their rights to every one who
contemplated taking stock in the company.
The testimony bearing upon the complicity of Lawler and
Wells with the preparation of these prospectuses and maps is

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

such as amounts rather to a suspicion that they may have
known and approved of their contents, than to positive proof
that they received their indorsement. Of course, if it were
shown that they were put forth by them personally with
knowledge upon their part of their contents, and of the falsity
of their statements, and that they were issued as a basis of
obtaining subscriptions to stock, they would be justly held
liable as participants in the fraud; but the mere fact that they
turned over the organization of the company to other parties
who would pursue the usual course of issuing prospectuses for
the purpose of raising subscriptions, would not, of itself, charge
them with the duty of examining and verifying their statements.
The facts principally relied upon are that the defendants
caused to be delivered to Mr. Rickard, an agent of Cowland, a
report previously made upon the mines, known as the Blauvelt
report, together with a map of the underground workings of
the mines, known as the Blauvelt map, as well as copies of the
smelter and milling returns of ores shipped from the mines,
known as the "smelters' returns." It is not found, however,
that these documents were false in any particular, except the
map, which was prepared by one Brodie, without the knowledge of the defendants, but was seen by defendant Lawler
hanging in the office of the companies in New York, and -was
entitled "Plat of the Hillside and adjoining claims," although
it appears that afterwards, without the knowledge of Lawler,
these entitling words were changed, before the maps were distributed, to the words "M lap of group of mines belonging to
the Seven Stars Gold Mining Company." It thus appears that
when Lawler saw this map it contained no words indicative of
ownership in the Seven Stars Company. Italso appeared that
in August of the same year defendant Wells visited the office
of the Guaranty Company in New York, and while there had
an interview with Warner, president of both companies; but
the evidence does not show that anything was said to Wells
about the plans of the companies, or the issue and circulation
of a prospectus; although Lawler became aware of the fact that
the prospectus was being prepared for circulation, and for the

WISER v. LAWLER.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purpose of promoting the sale of the stock of the company, and
that the Blauvelt report and map were being used in connection with it.
In October, 1892, Warner represented to the defendants that
he was unable to place the securities he held, in time to meet
the payment of that portion of the price falling due November 12, and relying upon his representations and requests defendants agreed to an extension of the time; but on May 8,
1893, the whole scheme so far as Warner was connected with
it, collapsed, by his executing a general assignment of his property for the benefit of his creditors. Defendants, learning of
this, made a further agreement with Cowland, extending the
time for payment under his agreement, receiving as part of the
consideration $50,000 par value of the guaranteed capital stock
of the Seven Stars Company, and the appointment of Lawler
as manager of the mines. In May, 1893, Lawler received notice
in writing that remittances on account of the Cowland contract
were being made from money derived from the sale of stock
of the Seven Stars Company, and in August, 1893, the Chancery
Court of Nev Jersey, in which State the company was incorporated, appointed defendant Griffin receiver of both companies. In September, defendants, as owners of the legal title,
and exercising their rights under the original escrow agreement, entered into possession of the group of mines and remained in exclusive possession until September, 1891, when a
receiver was appointed by an Arizona court.
The most important item of testimony, and one which lies
at the basis of this suit, is the fact that the defendants received
from the proceeds of the mines, during their operation by the
Seven Stars Company, sums aggregating $47,812.25, and also received from Warner and others, on account of the purchase price
of the property, $112,339.96. This, however, they had a perfect
right to do under their contract, unless they were distinctly apprised of the fact that it was fraudulently procured. But the
prospectus, map and application were prepared under the supervision of Warner, and the documents framed in accordance with his
views. The evidence tends to show that while defendants had
knowledge of the preparation and circulation of the prospectus

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

and maps, knowledge of the statements and representations contained in them is not brought home to them, nor were they
bound to inform themselves as to their contents.
There are further findings that defendants, in October, 1892,
became aware that the American prospectus was being distributed by the Guaranty Company, and that they did not at
any time protest against its preparation or circulation, or in
any way give notice of their rights in the mines to any of the
purchasers of the stock of the Seven Stars Company, except
as such notice might be imputed to them through the record
title in defendants. But it is further found that they did not
at the time the subscriptions to the stock were being made,
make any representations or communications to any subscriber
to said stock; nor did they have any notice or knowledge that
any moneys received by them on account of the purchase price
formed a part of the money raised from subscriptions to stock
and paid to the Guaranty Company on account of the purchase
price-at least not until May 20, 1893, when nearly all the
payments had been made. Neither were they interested as
promoters or otherwise in the organization of either of the corporations, or in the issue or circulation of the prospectuses, or
the sale of the capital stock.
Were they bound to refuse the money when it was tendered
them? Even if defendants had knowledge or notice that payments received by them on account of the purchase price were
made from moneys raised from subscriptions to stock, there
was no impropriety in receiving their money from the proceeds
of the sales of the stock, although the contract specified only
that they should be entitled to the proceeds of the ore mined.
As they bad agreed to sell their interests at $450,000, and
Cowland had agreed to pay that amount, it may be assumed
that this was the real value of the properties at that time.
This amount defendants had a right to receive before they
surrendered the deed of the properties, but how it was to be
raised was no concern of theirs. Granting the provision in the
contract for the forfeiture of all moneys paid, in case the sale
finally fell through, to have been a harsh one, (and in fact it
was much less harsh than it appeared to be,) it was fully un-

WISER v. LAWLER.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

derstood aid agreed upon by both parties; and while a bill in
equity might not have lain to enforce it, it does not follow that
defendants will be compelled to return the money unless they
actively participated in the representations under which it was
raised. The case would have been stronger if the Cowland
agreement had provided distinctly that a mining company
should be formed and defendants paid from the proceeds of
sales of its stock, but the agreement made no provision how
the money should be raised or from what fund it should be
paid, except that the proceeds of the operation of the mines
and the ores should be at once paid to the defendants and be
credited on the agreement. It was not provided, however,
that this should be the only source from which the money should
be raised.
As matter of fact, the Guaranty Company was engaged in
promoting sundry mining and industrial enterprises, including
the business of the Seven Stars Company; and during the time
the payments were being made, it received and disbursed the
sum of $824,142.13, which was deposited in its own name in a
common fund in the Continental National Bank, and chequed
out by the Guaranty Company in its various business enterprises as required, and, amongst others, to the defendants on
account of the Cowland agreement. These cheques, which
were generally payable to Cowland, were collected by the
payee, the money transmitted to the Bank of Arizona, and
placed to the credit of defendants on account of the purchase
price of the property. Between June 15, 1892, and September 18, 1893, the Guaranty Company paid out for operating
expenses, purchase of machinery, purchase price of the Hillside
group of mines, dividends and all other expenses, an aggregate
sum of $380,295.81-over $100,000 more than the amount of
money received from the sale of the Seven Stars guaranteed
stock.
The case, then, comes to this: Whether the mere fact that
defendants knew that a prospectus was to be issued; that they
furnished the Blauvelt report, (not shown to be false,) to which
was appended a map indicating (though not to their knowledge)
that the mines belonged to the Seven Stars Company, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

they might have informed themselves, if they had chosen to
do so, of the contents of the prospectus, and did actually receive
a large amount of money without knowing the source from
which it came, render them liable as participants in the fraud
perpetrated by the circulation of the prospectus?
Putting the case in the most favorable light for the plaintiffs,
it was only a case of estoppel by silence. Indeed, it was not
even an ordinary case of estoppel by silence, but an estoppel by
silence concerning facts of which defendants may have had no
actual knowledge. To constitute an estoppel by silence there
must be something more than an opportunity to speak. There
must be an obligation. This principle applies with peculiar
force where the persons to whom notice should be given are
unknown. So, too, to constitute an estoppel, either by express
representation or by silence, there must not only be a duty to
speak, but the purchase must have been made in reliance upon
the conduct of the party sought to be estopped ; and the express
finding of the court in this case is "that the subscribers to the
capital stock of the Seven Stars Company, in making their
several subscriptions therefor and payments thereon, did so
without any knowledge of, and without relying on, anything
said or done, or omitted to be said or done, in the premises by
the said Lawler and Wells, or either of them." Granting that
if these subscribers had known all the defendants knew regarding the title to this property, they would not have subscribed
to the stock of the company, it does not follow that defendants
were bound to take active steps to inform the public of that
which already appeared upon the record.
This case does not belong to that class of which Gp'egg v.
VFon Phul, 1 Wall. 214, is an example, wherein it was said that
"if one has a claim against an estate and does not disclose it,
but stands by and suffers the estate to be sold and improved,
with knowledge that the title has been mistaken, he will not be
allowed afterwards to assert his claim against the purchaser."
Such cases are believed to be confined to those where the party's
silence is inconsistent with the position subsequently assumed by
him, as where he suffers land to be improved while holding an
unrecorded deed of it. In this case, however, defendants' posi-

WISER v. LAWLER.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion was perfectly consistent with their title of record and with
the Cowland agreement, which distinctly provided that Cowland or his assignees should enter into possession, develop and
work the mines upon their own account, though paying the
proceeds to them.
But, conceding defendants to have been apprised of the contents of the prospectus, it would certainly be an exceptional case
if a person holding a deed of property which he has placed upon
record would be bound to disclose his title to a person contemplating purchasing or making improvements upon the land, or
would be estopped from making his claim thereto by mere
silence, since he has a right to rely upon the constructive notice
given by the record; although the rule would be otherwise in
case of positive misrepresentations upon his part. Brant v.
Virginia Coal & iron Co., 93 U. S. 326, 337; Hnouf v. Tormson, 16 Pa. St. 357; Brinclcerhoff v. Lansing, 4 Johns. Ch. 65;
Rice v. Dewey, 54 Barb. 455 ; Kingman v. Graham, 51 Wisconsin, 232; Sulphine v. Dunbar 55 -Mississippi, 255; Porter v.
WMteeler, 105 Alabama, 451. t1he authorities also recognize a
distinction between mere silence and a deceptive silence accompanied by an intention to defraud, which amounts to a positive
beguilement. Sumner v. Seaton, 47 N. J. Eq. 103; Hill v.
loey, 31 17a. St. 331 ; Afarkham v. O'Connor,52 Georgia, 183.
For instance, if a mortgagee stood by while a mortgagor was
selling a piece of property to a person whom the mortgagee
knew was purchasing the property upon the supposition that
it was unencumbered, he might be estopped by his silence, even
though his mortgage were of record. But upon the other hand,
if he were merely informed that the mortgagor was endeavoring to sell the property as unencumbered, he would clearly be
under no obligation to look up the purchaser, or to inform the
public generally of the existence of the mortgage. In such
case he might safely rely upon the record. Vo duty to speak
arises from the mere fact that a man is aware that another
may take an action prejudicial to himself if the real facts are
not disclosed.1 Sullivan v. Davis, 29 Kansas, 28. As stated
by Bigelow n Estoppel, 5th ed., page 596: "So long as he is
not brought in contact with the person about to act, and does

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

not know who that person may be, he is under no obligation
to seek him out, or to stop a transaction which is not due to
his own conduct, as the natural and obvious result of it." It
cannot be that A would be estopped by silence with respect to
his title to property which B is about to purchase, when he has
no knowledge that B contemplates buying and B has no knowledge that A is connected with the property. We know of no
case holding that a man is estopped by silence as against the
public, or any particular person with whom he has no fiduciary
relation. It was said by the Court of Appeals of New York
in Yiele v. hdon, 82 N. Y. 32, 40, of the cases holding a
party to be estopped by his silence: " In all of them the silence operated as'a. fraud and actually itself misled. In all
there was both the specific opportunity and apparent duty to
speak. And, in all, the party maintaining silence knew that
some one else was relying upon that silence, and either acting or about to act as he would not have done had the truth
been told. These elements are essential to create a duty to
speak."
Before holding that defendants are liable by reason of their
silence it ought to be made to appear what action they could
have taken to prevent the perpetration of the fraud embodied
in the prospectus and maps. If they had actually participated
in it by circulating these documents, or representing them to
be true, the case would have been different; but if they be held
at all it must be by reason of their silence and inaction, when
it is not even shown that they were cognizant of the statements contained in them. They may have seen them, but
they were not bound to read them, or inform themselves of
the truth of their statements, since they were no party to them
in any way whatever, and were interested only in obtaining
payment for their property. But conceding that they were
fully apprised of their contents, what action were they bound
to have taken? They could not give notice to the hundreds
of thousands to whom the prospectuses were sent, since they
were not even apprised of their names or addresses. A notice to the company not to send out these prospectuses would
have been equally futile, in case the directors chose to disre-

WISER v. LAWLER.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gard it, since they could not control their action, nor could
they have sustained a bill for injunction, since they could have
shown no personal injury to themselves by reason of the action
of the promoters.
The difficulty of doing exact justice to the plaintiffs in this
case, without also doing an injustice to the defendants, suggests
another reason why they should not be charged with liability
for the circulation of this prospectus and map without clear
proof of their complicity. At the time of the sale of these mining properties their real value must have been unknown. If
the mines proved successful they may have been worth millions;
if unsuccessful, they would be of little value-perhaps worthless. The amount agreed upon, $450,000, was one which the
defendants were willing to take as a compromise, and one which
the plaintiffs were willing to pay as a speculation. Each party
to the sale took his own chances, and no complaint is made of
unfair dealing on either side. In their cross complaint defendants tendered to the court and offered to deliver the deed and
possession of the mines upon the payment of the residue due
them under the escrow agreement. If the property be now
more valuable than the amount agreed to be paid, no reason is
apparent why the tender should not have been accepted. If,
as appears to be more probable, it is of less value, or wholly
valueless, the defendants in refunding the amount paid would
not only lose that amount, but all possibility of reselling the
mines to other parties, and would thereby assume the risk of an
unfortunate speculation, which the whole design of the sale was
to impose upon the purchasers under the Cowland agreement,
namely, the plaintiffs. In making the purchase the vendees
were willing to assume the risk of the mines proving unsuccessful. The vendors were evidently unwilling to take this risk,
and preferred to take a sum certain for their speculative chances.
Assuming that in equity the defendants could be called upon to
refund the money paid, it seems unjust that they should also be
saddled with the burden of an unfortunate speculation. In
short, the circumstances have so changed that justice cannot be
done without imposing damages upon the defendants which
were not within the contemplation of the parties.
VOL. CLXXXIx-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

If the first alternative prayer of the bill were granted, and it
were adjudged that the defendants were estopped from asserting that the Seven Stars Company was not the owner of the
mining properties, and adjudging such company to have fall title
thereto, and that defendants should also repay all the proceeds
of ore taken therefrom and received by them, amounting to
$17,819.25, it will result that of the $450,000, agreed upon
as the price' of the property, they would have received but
$112,339.96, and would lose $337,660.04, of the amount agreed
to be paid. Upon the other hand, if the second alternative
prayer were granted, and defendants were adjudged to return
the money found due in the first decree of the District Court,
namely, $180,139.82, and retake the property, which now appears to be of little value, they would be practically, in either
case charged with the entire burden of the venture which it was
the express object of the Cowland agreement to avoid. A decree that would bring about this result would savor of punishment to defendants rather than of compensation to plaintiff.
We think the plaintiffs have wholly failed to make out such
a complicity on the part of the defendants, with the preparation
and circulation of these prospectuses, as would make them liable for the losses which the plaintiffs have doubtless sustained.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
.Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
FOR THE EIGHTH
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
CIRCUIT.

No. 108. Argued January 23, 26, 1903.-)ecided M]%arch9, 1903.
regulate commerce
Prior to the passage of the act of Congress " to further
February 19, 1903,
approved
"
States
the
among
with foreign nations and
the direction of the Ata District Attorney of the United States under
of a request made
torney General of the United States given in pursuance
power to commence
by the Interstate Commerce Commission was without
to restrain it from
a proceeding in equity against a railroad corporation

