THE CONEMAUGH.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

shows that fact, but he avers that it does not appear that the
maul was in such a position as to convict the foreman of negligence in not discovering it, and as to that fact counsel insists
that the negligence of the foreman is disproved by the uncontradicted testimony.
The facts ah'eady stated rendered it necessary, in our judgment, to submit the question to the jury as to the negligence
of the foreman, even although he testified that he looked and
did not discover any obstacle on the bridge.
These two are the propositions particularly argued before us.
We do not see in them any ground for disturbing the verdict

of the jury.
We have looked at the other exceptions taken in the course
of the trial and are of opinion that they do not show any error
requiring a reversal of the judgment, and it is, therefore,

Afirmed.

THE CONEMAUGH. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 97. Argued December 1, 2, 1902.-Decided MIarch 9, 1903.
1. In 175 U. S. 187, and 178 U. S. 317, this court held that the collision between the Conemaugh and the New York in the Detroit River was the
fault of both vessels and judgment was given in favor of the Conemaugh
for one half of her damages less one half of the damages of the New York.
In this proceeding held, that the New York against which judgments had
been entered for damages to the cargo on the Conemaugh could not in this
action recoup or set off any part of such damages against, or shift any
part of such judgment upon, the owners of the Conemaugli, even though
it should result in the New York paying more than fifty per cent of the
total loss.
2. The mandate having provided for interest at the same rate that decrees
bear in the courts of the State of Michigan, there was no error in view
of the statutory provisions as to interest in Michigan, in computing the
interest at seven per cent per annum.
1Docket title-Union Steamboat Company, claimant of the PropellerNew
York, v. Erie and Western TransportationCompany.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

Tu facts of this case are fully set out in previous decisions
of this court, T]he lHew York, 175 U. S. 187 ; Ex parte Union
Steamboat Co., 178 U. S. 317.
The steamer Conemaugh, owned by respondents, and the propeller New York, owned by the petitioner, collided in the Detroit River, November 11, 1891. The Conemaugh for herself,
and as bailee of her cargo, filed a libel against the New York
for the sum of $70,000 damages in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Michigan. Subsequently certain underwriters of the cargo of the Conemaugh filed an intervening petition
in the cause. Subsequently the owners of the New York filed
a cross libel against the Conemaugh for $3000 damages sustained by the New York in the collision. No answer was filed
to this cross libel.
The District Court held the New York to have been solely
in fault, and passed a decree against her. The Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the decree of the District Court on the ground that the Conemaugh had been solely
in fault, and adjudged that her owners pay the owners of the
New York, petitioners here, the damages sustained by the New
York. The case was then brought here by certiorari, and both
vessels were pronounced to have been in fault. The decrees of
the lower courts were reversed and the damages caused by the
collision ordered to be divided. The following is the material
part of the judgment and mandate:
"On consideration whereof, it is now ordered, adjudged and
decreed by this court that the decree of the said United States
Circuit Court of Appeals in the cause be and the same is hereby
reversed ; the claimant of the Conernaugh and the claimant of
the New York each to pay one half of all costs in this cause.
"And that thbe said Erie and Western Transportation Company recover against the Union Steamboat Company $276.75
for one half of the costs herein expended, and have execution
therefor.
"And it is further ordered that this cause be and the same
is hereby remanded to the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Alichigan, with direction to enter a
decree in conformity with the opinion of this court, with in-

THE CONEMAUGH.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

terest from July 3,1896, until paid, at the same rate per annum
that decrees bear in the courts of the State of Michigan."
Upon the return of the case to the District Court that court
made its decree in favor of the several intervening underwriters
upon the cargo for their respective claims, with interest at
seven per cent from July 3, 1896. The court also decreed that
the owners of the cargo and their underwriters, other than the
intervenors, by reason of the collision, sustained damages in the
sum of $19,627.67, "for which the said Erie and Western
Transportation Company appears in this suit as trustee only."
And it was adjudged and decreed "that said trustee recover
from the said Union Steamboat Company and its surety, in
trust, for the said owners of and underwriters on cargo, the
aforesaid sum of $19,627.67, with interest thereon at the rate
of seven per cent per annum, from July 3, 1896, until paid, and
that it have execution therefor."
Judgment was also given in favor of the Conemaugh for one
half of the damages of that steamer, less one half of the damages of the N\ew York, with interest.
At the hearing in the District Court on the return of the
mandate the petitioner "submitted a decree to the effect that
both vessels were in fault for the collision, and that the damages resulting therefrom be equally divided between the Erie
and Western Transportation Company, owner of the Conemaugh, and the Union Steamboat Company, owner of the New
York; .that such damages amounted in all to the sum of
$74,319.49, of which certain intervening underwriters of the
cargo were entitled to, and recovered from the steamboat company, $19,841.56; that the transportation company, as trustees
for the underwriters and owners of the cargo of the Conemaugh,
not intervening, suffered damages in the sum of $19,627.67;
that, as owner of the propeller, it had suffered damages in the
sum of $30,508.46, aggregating the sum of $50,136.13; that the
transportation company recover of the petitioner one half of
$50,136.13, less one half the sum of $19,841.56, decreed to be
paid to the interveiiing petitioners, etc.
"The court, however, declined to enter this decree; refused
to permit the petitioner to recoup any sum that it might pay

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the owners or underwriters of the cargo of the Conemaugh,
from any sum that was due from the steamboat company for
damages sustained by the Conemaugh, so that such company
was compelled to pay of the total damages about seventy-six
per cent instead of fifty per cent." 178 U. S. 317, 318.
The action of the District Court was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 108 Fed. Rep. 102, and the case was then
brought here.
C. E. Kremer for petitioner.
jXr1.
-ir. W. 0. Johnson were on the brief.

'. F. C. Harvey and

_Xr. Hfarvey -D. Goulder for respondent.
and -Mr. F. S. .Wiasten were on the brief.
Mr'. Tilhemus M3ynderse for intervenors.
field was on the brief.

Holding
Xr. S. HZ.
.X&. F. Hi. Can-

MR. JUSTICE Mc KENA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

1. One main and several subsidiary propositions are asserted by petitioner. The main proposition is that in all cases
of collision, if both vessels are in fault, the damages resulting
are to be equally divided between the owners of the vessels.
The subsidiary propositions are that if one of the offending
vessels pay more than half the damages to a third or innocent
party she may recoup or set off such excess against any claim
for damages which the other vessel may have without bringing in the other vessel as a co-defendant under admiralty rule
59, or filing other pleadings than an answer to the libel. In
such case it is insisted that all the parties are before the court.
And further, that it is not necessary upon an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, or to this court, that the pleadings show
a demand for recoupment-the hearing in both courts being a
trial de novo.
The main proposition asserted may be conceded. It was the
basis of our decision when the case was here on the first certio-

THE CONEMAUGH.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rari and determined the judgment rendered. 175 U. S. 187.
And if under some circumstances the other propositions could
be applied, (which is not necessary to decide,) they cannot be
under the circumstances of this case. The petitioner made no
claim for a division of damages upon the original trial of the
case. It asserted its own innocence and the entire guilt of the
Conemaugh, and submitted that issue for judgment. It sought
to escape all liability, not to divide liability, and on the issues
hence arising judgments were entered against it, not only for
the Conemaugh, but for the cargo owners, some having intervened, others still being represented by the Conemaugh. Petitioner maintained the same attitude in the Circuit Court of
Appeals and in this court. After the decision in this court it
changed its attitude, and for justification says it bad no earlier
opportunity to do so. It urges that the decision of the District Court was completely against it; the decision of the Circuit Court completely for it; and that the judgment from which
its right of recoupment arose was rendered by this court.
But the controversy as presented by the pleadings was not
only between the Conemaugh and the New York, but between
the latter and cargo, and this court did not disturb the judgment obtained by the cargo owners against the New York.
Explaining our decision we said:
"The only questions decided were as to the respective faults
of the two vessels, and the claim of the underwriters upon the
Conemaugh's cargo, that they were entitled to a recovery to
the full amount of their damages against the New York, notwithstanding the Conemaugh was also in fault for the collision.
This claim was sustained, and directions given to enter a decree in conformity to the opinion of this court."
The decree against it, the New York now seeks to shift in
part to the owners of the Conemaugh. Indeed, not to shift it,
but virtually to vacate it and put the claims of the cargo owners
into controversy with the Conemaugh. This, we think, should
not be done. The cargo owners' judgments were affirmed by
this court, as we have seen, and they are none the less entitled
to them under the circumstances of this record, although as to
some of them they were represented by the Conemaugh. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

New York, having been in fault, was responsible to the cargo,
and if, as between her and the Conemaugh, she have a claim
for recoupment, the way is open to recover it. We think that
the District Court rightly construed our mandate.
2. Our mandate directed that a decree be entered "with
interest from July 3, 1896, until paid, at the same rate per annuni that decrees bear in the courts of the State of Michigan."
The District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals found the
rate to be seven per cent. This is assigned as error.
The statute which provided for interest on judgments and
decrees in Michigan at seven per cent was enacted in 1838, and
has been carried forward with amendments into the various
compilations of the statutes, and appears as section 4865, Compiled Laws of Michigan of 1897. It is as follows:
"Interest may be allowed and received upon all judgments
at law, for the recovery of any sums of money, and upon all
decrees in chancery for the payment of any sums of money,
whatever may be the form or cause of action or suit in which
such judgment or decree shall be rendered or made; and such
interest may be collected on execution, at the rate of seven per
centum per annum: Provided, That on a judgment rendered
on any written instrument, having a different rate, the interest
shall be computed at the rate specified in such instrument, not
exceeding ten per centuin."
This section, it is insisted by appellants, was repealed by a
statute passed in 1891, which statute was entitled "An act to
regulate the interest of money on account, interest on money,
judgments, verdicts, etc.," and provided as follows:
"Src. 1. The People of the State of Michigan enact: That
the interest of money shall be at the rate of six dollars upon
one hundred dollars for a year, and at the same rate for a greater
or less sum, and for a longer or shorter time, except that in all
cases, it shall be lawful for the parties to stipulate in writing,
for the payment of any rate of interest not exceeding eight per
cent per annum: Provided, That this act shall not apply to
existing contracts whether the same be either due, not due, or
part due."

THE CONEMAUGH.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 4. All acts or parts of acts contravening the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed."
Subsequently the rate was reduced to five per cent by a
statute passed May 25, 1899, which reads as follows:
"SEC. 1. That section one of act number one hundred and
fifty-six of the Public Acts of eighteen hundred and ninety-one,
entitled ' An act to regulate the interest of money on account,
interest on money, judgments, verdicts, etc., the same being
compiler's section one thousand five hundred ninety-four of
volume three of Howell's Annotated Statutes and section four
thousand eight hundred fifty-six of the Compiled Laws of
eighteen hundred ninety-seven, be and the same is hereby
amended to read as follows:
" SEcrIoN 1. The People of the State of Michigan enact:
That the interest of money shall be at the rate of five dollars
upon one hundred dollars for a year, and at the same rate for
a greater or less sum, and for a longer or shorter time, except
that in all cases it shall be lawful for the parties to stipulate
in writing for the payment of any rate of interest, not exceeding seven per cent per annum: Provided, That this act shall
not apply to existing contracts, whether the same be either due,
not due or part due."
According to its title the act is one to regulate the interest
of money on account and interest on money judgments. Section one, however, provides only "that the interest of money
shall be at the rate of five dollars upon one hundred dollars for
a year." It is urged, however, thai section one must take
meaning from the title of the act, and that by "interest of
money" is meant "interest of money on account" and "interest on money judgments," and having that meaning it
repeals section 4865, suyra. But money on account and
money judgments are distinguished in the title, and it is hard
to suppose that the former was intended to include the latter in
the body of the act. They are distinguished also in the prior
statutes. "Interest of money" was provided for in section 3
of the act of 1838 in substantially the same language as in the
acts of 1891 and 1.899, and, it is certain, that it was not intended
thereby to include interest on judgments and decrees. The
VOL. CLXXXIX-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Petitioners.

189 U. S.

latter were provided for in section eight of the act of 1838,
which became section 4865, and as such has been given a place
in the compiled laws of the State ever since.
If it is anomalous, as urged by counsel and as observed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, for legal interest in the State
to be fixed at five per cent, and judgments left to bear seven
per cent, we cannot correct the anomaly. Nor can we regard
the words "interest of money" to have been suddenly given a
meaning in 1891 or 1899 different from that which they had
borne for over fifty years in the statutes of the State with the
intention to work by implication the repeal of a provision with
which for the same length of time they were regarded as
consistent.
Decree aftrmed.

ZANE v. HAMILTON COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 115. Argued and submitted December 5, 1902.-Decided April 6, 1903.
Where the highest court of a State has decided that the act of the legislature under which bonds were issued by a county is unconstitutional and
such decision is in conformity with the prior decisions of that court, the
bonds, having been illegally issued, do not constitute a contract which
is protected by the Constitution of the United States.

TIE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.lb'. George A. Sanders for petitioners.
I. There was ample legislative authority for the issue of the
bonds and coupons in controversy, under the act of M arch 10,
1869. The declaration avers the citizenship of the plaintiff as
that of another State. Gives copy of one of the bonds and
coupons, and avers the others are of similar tenor and effect,
states when, and for what purpose, the bonds were issued, rate

