FINNEY v. GUY.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

material in this case. The defendants in error have not only
not appealed from the decree of the Supreme Court, but they
have paid the taxes assessed for the purposes mentioned in the
act of 1899, and do not seek to recover them back in this case,
and the question is of no consequence to them.
In the view we take of the case we are unable to see that
any provision of the act of Congress of 1890, organizing the
Territory, or the other act of 1886, in regard to Territories
then or thereafter to be organized, has been violated by the
territorial act of 1899, and the judgment of the Supreme Court

of Oklahoma is, therefore

Affirmed.

FINNEY v. GUY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 180. Argued February 27, March 2,1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Where a case turns upon the construction by a state court of a statute of
another State, and not upon the validity of such statute, a decision on
that question is not necessarily of a Federal character. It depends upon
the particular facts of each case and the manner in which they are presented, how far such questions can be regarded as coming under the full
faith and credit clause of the Constitution.
As decided in Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56, a receiver of an insolvent corporation appointed by the courts of Minnesota under the statutes of that
State then existing cannot maintain an action outside of that State to enforce the statutory double liability of the stockholders; in refusing to
allow such a receiver to maintain such an action, the courts of Wisconsin
dd not fail to give full faith and credit to the laws and judgments of
Minnesota, under the Federal Constitution.
Where the law of a foreign jurisdiction has been proved as a fact, the evi-.
dence of a witness, stating such law and decisions as to its meaning and'
effect, does not preclude the court from itself consulting and construing such statute and decisions, and deducing its own opinion in regard
thereto, Eastern Building & Loan Assn. v. Williamson, ante, p. 122; nor
is the right and duty of the courts to themselves construe statutes and
dejai.ios of a foreign jurisdiction altered because such law and decisions
are set forth in a pleading which is demurred to instead of being proved
as facts on a trial.
Whether, apart from Federal questions, the courts of one State should
permit an action of this nature to be maintained on the principle of comity, is a question exclusively for the state court to decide.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

THis action was commenced in a proper court of the State
of Wisconsin to enforce the shareholders' liability under a
Minnesota statute, in a corporation of M innesota and doing
business in that State. The defendant demurred to the complaint on the ground, among others, that it did not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The demurrer was
overruled by the trial court and judgment given for the plaintiff, which was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State,
106 Wisconsin, 256, and the case has been brought here by
plaintiff to review the judgment of reversal.
The facts alleged in the complaint are in substance these:
That during all the times therein mentioned the American Savings and Loan Association, one of the plaintiffs herein, was a
corporation organized under the laws of the State of Minnesota, and on June 18, 1896, William D. Hale, another plaintiff
in this action, was appointed receiver thereof ; that the Farmers' and Merchants' State Bank was, on June 6, 1888, a banking
organization, by virtue of the laws of the State of Minnesota,
and doing business as such; that the bank became insolvent
in June, 1893, and the entire net proceeds of the bank's assets
amounted to the sum of $1 2,539.95, all of which had been paid
over to the State of Minnesota on account of the indebtedness
of the bank to the State of over $28,000, which was a preferred
claim under the laws of that State; that its other debts
amounted to the sum of more than one hundred thousand dollars,
and it had no property to satisfy the same; that the defendant,
Mary A. Guy, a resident of the State of Wisconsin, was the
owner of three shares of the capital stock of the bank in her
own right, and that she owned sixteen shares of the stock of
the bank as executrix of the will of her husband and as legatee
thereunder.
It was then averred that suit had been commenced in Minnesota in 1894 to enforce the liability of the stockholders of the
bank under and by virtue of the laws and constitution of the
State of Minnesota; that such suit had been commenced by
the American Savings and Loan Association, which was a creditor of the bank, in behalf of itself and all other creditors who
should come in and make themselves parties to the suit and

FINNEY v. GUY.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

prove their claims therein, and against all the stockholders of
the bank, process was, however, not served on this defendant,
but only on those residing within the State; that such proceedings were had in the suit that judgment was duly rendered
therein on April 28, 1897, in favor of the complainant, the
American Savings and Loan Association, for the amount of
the indebtedness of the bank to it, and also in favor of the
other creditors of the bank, who had duly intervened, for the
various amounts due them from the bank. It was also adjudged
that the amount of the debts of said bank aggregated the sum
of $10,6171.71.
It was then further averred in the complaint that Finney (one
of the plaintiffs herein) was appointed receiver in the Minnesota
suit for the purpose of collecting and enforcing the respective
liabilities of the defendant stockholders, and that an order had
been made authorizing and empowering him to proceed against
those of the defendant shareholders residing in other jurisdictions in such other jurisdictions, for the purpose of enforcing
the liabilities of such shareholders, and with full power and
authority to distribute the proceeds of such action among the
parties entitled thereto, after final payment in full, out of the
proceeds, of the costs and expenses incurred, etc. It was then
averred that pursuant to the instructions of the Minnesota court,
Finney, as receiver therein, commenced this action against
Mary A. Guy, and joined with him as plaintiffs all the creditors
of the bank who had proved their claims in the Minnesota suit,
and it was also averred that Mrs. Guy was liable to the creditors
of the bank in the sum of $3800, double the a'mount of the par
value of the three shares owned by her individually and of the
sixteen shares formerly owned by her husband, and that she
was the only stockholder who was a resident of Wisconsin, and
therefore the only defendant in the case, and that the full amount
of her double liability, if recovered, would be wholly insufficient
to pay the indebtedness of the bank after applying everything
that could be collected from all the other stockholders, some
of whom were insolvent, some had been compromised with and
from others nothing could be collected.
VOL. CLXxxIx-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
189 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

The complaint then set forth several sections of the General
Statutes of the State of Minnesota of 1878, among them being
sections 5905, 5906, 5907 and 5911, and it was averred that this
action could be maintained by reason of such sections. They
are the same as are set forth in Hale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56.
It was then averred that decisions in the courts of the State of
Minnesota had been rendered relating to the liability of stockholders under those statutes, in corporations organized under
the laws of that State, as to the proper method of enforcing
such liability. The complaint then referred to some twenty
different decisions in the state courts of Minnesota by titles and
gave a reference to the volumes in which they were reported,
and it then stated what the law of Minnesota was under those
decisions and statutes, as to the liability of stockholders, and
the manner in which that liability could be enforced and the
effect of a judgment recovered in a state court by a creditor in
his own behalf and in behalf of all others similarly situated,
and it averred that a judgment such as was obtained in the
Minnesota suit was conclusive upon stockholders, even though
they were not parties thereto, as to all questions of indebtedness of the bank and who were its creditors, and that defendant, though not served with process in that suit, was concluded
by the judgment as to her liability as shareholder, except as
therein stated. It also averred that the Minnesota decisions
held that after such a judgment had been obtained under those
statutes a suit could be maintained in the courts of another jurisdiction, similar to the one before us, and the complaint ended
with a prayer for judgment that the defendant should pay the
plaintiff the sum of $3800, with interest thereon since April 28,
1897, and that A. C. Finney, one of the plaintiffs, be appointed
receiver herein, to collect the amount and distribute the same
pro rata among the other plaintiffs.
.Ur. Fred F. Reed for plaintiffs in error.
was on the brief.

.Mr. F. -.

.Afr. ]Robert M. Bas4ford for defendant in error.

White

FINNEY v. GUY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

M1R. JUSTICE PECOHAM, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The demurrer raises the question whether the complaint states
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The plaintiffs
contend that their cause of action is based upon the decisions
and judgments of the courts of the State of Minnesota, and
upon the statutes of that State, and that the Wisconsin Supreme
Court in sustaining the demurrer has thereby failed to give
that full faith and credit to the laws and judgments of the State
of Minnesota and its courts which they receive in that State
and which they are entitled to under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, and that by reason thereof a Federal
right has been denied them.
They urged that, under the judgment of the American Savings
& Loan Association v. Farmers' & .ferchants' Sate Bank,

which was recovered in the Minnesota court, and is referred to
in the foregoing statement of facts, the defendant is concluded
as to her defence to the same extent she would have been had
she appeared and contested her liability in the Minnesota courts,
and that as a consequence the Wisconsin courts are bound to
give the same effect to that judgment in their courts that it has
in the courts of Minnesota ; that if such effect had been awarded
that judgment, then this action could have been maintained;
and the Wisconsin court in sustaining the demurrer denied such
effect to the judgment, which was a violation of a right founded
upon the Federal Constitution.
It is stated by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin that that
State for many years has had a statute for the enforcement of
the liability of stockholders in corporations similar to that which
exists in Minnesota, and that it had been frequently decided
under such statute that an action of the nature of the one at
bar could not be maintained in her courts, and also that it was
against the public policy of Wisconsin to permit it; that the
remedy under the Wisconsin statute was exclusive, and consisted
in a suit in equity at the home of the corporation, in the nature of
a partnership accounting, the parties to which would be all the
oreditors or a creditor in his own behalf and in behalf of all

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

others similarly situated who would come in and make themselves parties, and the stockholders who could be served with
process in the State.
Whether a cause of action is stated in a pleading, is generally
to be decided with reference to the law of the State where the
action is pending. If the state court hold that no cause of action is set forth in the pleading and that it is against the public
policy of the State to permit an action for such a purpose, we
should generally hold that there was no Federal question involved in such determination. The plaintiffs, however, urge
that there is here an exception to that rule founded upon the
considerations just stated, and that if under the Minnesota law
this action could be maintained, the courts of Wisconsin are
bound to entertain jurisdiction to the same extent. It is not,
however, the case that every decision regarding the proper
construction of the statute of another State, involves a Federal
question. Where the case turns upon the construction and not
the validity of the statute, a decision of that questioii is not
necessarily of a. Federal character. Johnson v. New York
_Life _nsuiance Company, 187 U. S. 491, 496. Without pre6isely determining just how far questions of this kind can in all
cases be regarded as coming under the rule giving full faith and
credit to the public acts, records and judicial proceedings of
another State, depending, as such questions must, upon the
particular facts of each case and the manner in which they are
presented, we may, nevertheless, examine the contentions of
the plaintiffs in error to see how far they are justified in the law.
After quite a full examination of the Minnesota decisions on
the question, we have just decided in Hae v. Allinson, 188 U.
S. 56, that a receiver appointed in Minnesota, under these same
statutes, could not maintain an action outside of that State to
enforce the liability of a stockholder, and it was said that the
courts of Minnesota had held the same thing for many years.
An examination of the decisions of the Minnesota courts shows
that they had held that the remedy provided by the statutes of
the State for the enforcement of stockholders' liability was a
suit in equity in that State by a creditor in his own behalf and
that of all other creditors, against all the stockholders of the

FINNEY v. GUY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

corporation, or so many of them as could be served with
process, and that it was exclusive, and no other remedy could
be availed of even within the jurisdiction of the courts of linnesota. That being the law of Minnesota, it would, of course,
prevent an action outside the State, by a receiver as well as by
any other plaintiff, to enforce the stockholders' liability.
Hence, in the Hale-Allinson case, we held the receiver could
not maintain such an action in a foreign jurisdiction and in a
Federal court.
The case of Allen v. Walsh, 25 Minnesota, 543, has been
cited as pustaining this rule. Many other cases have been cited
as holding the same rule, an exclusive remedy under the statute and to be pursued only in the courts of the State. Allen
v. Walsh does hold (and it has been followed by many others
to the same effect) that the only remedy is that created by the
statute, and that remedy is an action in equity in the home
courts wherein all the creditors and all the stockholders are
parties, or as many of the latter as can be served, and in that
action all the rights of the different parties can be adjusted.
The remedy being exclusive, the statute must be followed, and
the result is that no other action to enforce the liability can be
availed of in another State. This would call for an affirmance
of the judgment but for the claim now urged by counsel for
plaintiffs, that the case of Allen v. Walsh has been overruled
by subsequent cases in Minnesota, and that the law is correctly
set forth in the complaint. He calls attention to the fact that
this case has not gone to trial upon an issue of any question of
fact, but the questions to be determined have arisen on demurrer to the complaint; that the complaint avers as a fact
that by the law of Minnesota such an action as this can be
maintained in the courts of a foreign jurisdiction after a judgment has been recovered in an action in the state court, such as
is referred to in the complaint, and that the defendant by demurring admits that the law is as stated in the complaint, and
therefore the court is bound to give effect to the law of Minnesota such as is set forth in that pleading. This is too broad
a claim to be maintained.
If the case had been on trial upon issues of fact, among them

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

being one as to what the law of Minnesota was, and the statutes as well as the decisions above mentioned had been proved
and a witness learned in the law of Minnesota had testified
what such law was, as deduced by him from those statutes
and decisions, his testimony would not, even though uncontradicted, conclude the court upon that issue. Although the law
of a foreign jurisdiction may be proved as a fact, yet the evidence of a witness stating what the law of the foreign jurisdiction is, founded upon the terms of a statute, and the decisions
of the courts thereon as to its meaning and effect, is really a
matter of opinion, although proved as a fact, and courts are not
concluded thereby from themselves consulting and construing
the statutes and decisions which have been themselves proved,
or from deducing a result from their own examination of
them that may differ from that of a witness upon the same
matter. In other words, statutes and decisions having been
proved or otherwise properly brought to the attention of the
court, it may itself deduce from them an opinion as to what
the law of the foreign jurisdiction is, without being conclusively
bound by the testimony of a witness who gives his opinion as
to the law, which he deduces from those very statutes and decisions.
It was stated by Mr. Justice Brewer, speaking for the court
in Eastern Building & Zoan Association v. Williamson, 189
U. S.122, a case just decided and where the same question in
substance was before us, as follows:
"But it is contended that the construction of the New York
statutes as applicable to this contract was shown by the decisions of the courts of that State and the opinion of one learned
in its laws; that there was no contradictory testimony, and,
therefore, it was the duty of the South Carolina courts to find
as a fact that such was the true construction."
This was the contention of the defendant, and then, after referring to the construction of the contract as contended for by
the plaintiff, the Justice continued:
"It is said that the promise made in the certificate is expressly based upon 'full compliance with the terms, conditions
and by-laws printed on the front and back of this certificate; '

FINNEY v. GUY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that one of the conditions expressed on the face of the certificate is: ' The shareholder agrees to pay, or cause to be paid, a

monthly installment of seventy-five cents on each share named
in this contract, the same to be paid on or before the last Saturday of each month until such share matures or is withdrawn;'
that it contained this further stipulation: 'Payable in the manner and upon the conditions set forth in said terms, conditions
and by-laws hereto attached,' and that these matters thus referred to had the effect of changing the absolute promise to a
conditional one. All these were received in evidence, and when
so received it became a matter of judicial construction to determine whether they had such effect, and that was a question
which, nothing else being shown, was for the consideration of
the courts in which the litigation was pending. In like manner, after the decisions of the courts of New York were received in evidence, their meaning and scope became matters
for the same consideration. While statutes and decisions of
other States are facts to be proved, yet when proved their construction and meaning are for the consideration and judgment
of the courts in which they have been proved. Nor is the rule
changed by the testimony given in the deposition of defendant's counsel, for, as he states, his opinion is based on the statutes, the articles of incorporation and the decisions admitted in
evidence, together with similar decisions of other States under
like statutes, articles of incorporation and by-laws. No witness
can conclude a court by his opinion of the construction and
meaning of statutes and decisions already in evidence. Laing
v. Rigney, 160 U. S. 531. The duty of the court to construe
and decide remains the same."
This right and duty of the courts to themselves construe the
statutes and decisions are not altered because the law of the
foreign State and the various decisions of its courts are alleged
to be as set forth in a pleading which is demurred to instead of
being proved on a trial.
In this case the statutes together with references to the decisions of the state courts are given in the complaint, and the
pleader, by making an averment in the form of a fact, assumes
to give a meaning to them such as he thinks to be correct, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

the duty still remains with the courts to themselves determine
from those statutes and decisions what is in truth the law of
the foreign jurisdiction. The courts are not concluded by an
averment of what is the law in a foreign jurisdiction, contained
in a pleading which is demurred to, any more than they would
be by the testimony of a witness to the same effect upon a trial;
certainly not when the statute upon which the case rests is set
forth and the decisions under it are also referred to as evidence
of the law. The demurrer does not admit as a fact, that the
construction (in the form of an averment of fact) which the
pleader may choose to put upon those statutes or decisions is
the right conclusion to be drawn from them. Notwithstanding the averinents in the complaint we are brought to an examination of the statutes and decisions referred to, in order to
ourselves determine what the law of Minnesota is.
We are unable to see that the case of Allen v. TWalshb, 25
Minnesota, 543, supra, has been overruled upon the material
point in this case, by Hanson v. Davison, 73 Minnesota, 454,
so as to call for a different decision than would be made under
Allen v. Walsh, and the many similar cases. We have already
referred to the Hanson case in HYale v. Allinson, 188 U. S. 56,
sup'a, and do not regard it as necessary to continue the discussion here. It is enough to say that it is no authority for the
contention that the former cases are overruled further than the
issue presented in the-case called for. The right to bring into
the original case in equity in the state court after judgment had
been obtained therein, a stockholder who was not served with
process in that suit, but who appeared after judgment and
after his property had been attached, was asserted in and decided by the state court, but it did not decide that the remedy
in the state court as provided in the statute did not continue
to be exclusive, nor did the state court assume to decide that
any further action could be maintained in the courts of a foreign jurisdiction to enforce the stockholders' liability. No such
issue was involved in the Hanson case, and the opinion regarding such question is only the opinion of the very able judge who
gave it, upon an abstract proposition, as distinguished from an
adjudication upon a point actually in issue, and in that case, in

FINNEY v. GUY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

speaking to that point, the judge only said he saw nothing in
the statute to prevent such an action in the courts of another
State, provided such courts would permit it. We think thelaw
of Minnesota still remains upon this particular matter as stated
in the former cases, which have not been overruled by Hanson
v. Davison. This, in effect, has been held in the Hale-Allinson
case, which we have just decided.
iNor is this case controlled or covered by Whitman v. Oxford
National Bank, 176 U. S. 559, and Hancock National Bank v.
.Farnum, 176 U. S. 640. In the former case the special provisions of the Kansas statutes were referred to. It was stated to
be the law in Kansas that it only required a judgment against
the corporation and an unsatisfied execution returned, after
which any creditor could sue any shareholder wherever he
could be found. There was no suit in equity in the nature of a
partnership accounting necessary. The liability of the shareholder, although statutory in origin, was held contractual in its
nature, and under the statute the cause of action was transitory
and could be maintained in any tribunal having jurisdiction
where process could be served upon the individual shareholder,
and in such an action the latter could set off debts due-him from
the company. The Kansas cases, expressing these views, were
referred to in the opinion.
In the second case it was again held that under the statute
and the decisions of the Kansas courts, after a judgment had
been obtained against the corporation and an execution returned
unsatisfied, the individual creditor could maintain an action
against a single stockholder in any court of competent jurisdiction. Having the right to maintain such action, it was held
that when it was commenced in another State and in a proper
court thereof, the judgment which was obtained in Kansas
must have the same faith and credit given it in the courts of
another State that was given it in Kansas. Neither case is applicable to the one before us. The statutes are radically different, and no one creditor can maintain the action under the
Minnesota statute, and if all unite, they must sue in the courts
of that State.
Whether, aside from the Federal considerations just discussed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

the Wisconsin court should have permitted this action to be
maintained, because of the principle of comity between the
States, is a question exclusively for the courts of that State to
decide. The right to maintain it under the facts of this case is
not founded upon any provision of a Federal nature, and we
cannot supervise the action of the Wisconsin court in this particular.,
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin must be
A ff red.
MR. JUsTIcE McKENNA did not hear the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JUsTicE BREWER dissented.

THAYER v. SPRATT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 207. Argued March 12, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

On proceedings to cancel an entry which has been transferred, where the
Land Department has notice thereof, and the records show the name
and address of the transferee, the transferee has a right to notice.
Upon a writ of error to a state court this court has no right to review its
decision upon the ground that the finding was against evidence or the
weight of evidence.
It appearing from the facts that at the time of making their entries entrymen were entitled to purchase lands under the act of Congress of June 3,
1878, for the sale of timber lands in Washington Territory and elsewhere,
and that in the purchase of the land they fully complied with the laws
of the United States and the rules and regulations of the Land Department; that the applications were allowed and certificates duly issued as
applied for, and the lands included in the entries were at all times chiefly
valuable for timber thereon and at that time unfit for cultivation; and
that thereafter based upon a misconstruction of the act of 1878 the land
office cancelled the entries on the ground that as the land could be cultivated after the removal of the timber it was not subject to entry as timber land:

