DETROIT &c. RY. v. OSBORN.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

expressed in the title, Belleville &c. Railroad Co. v. Gregory,
15 Illinois, 20; City of 7i'rden v. Allan, 107 Illinois, 505, the
diversion to that corporation of a subscription theretofore authorized by a vote of the people to be made to a different corporation is a wholly different thing. That, it is to be presumed,
affects, adversely, the corporation from which the subscription
voted is to be diverted, and is, therefore, clearly not germane
to the title of the act, and section 20 must therefore be held
to have been inhibited by the constitution of 1848, and is for
that reason void and of no effect. Lockport v. Gaylord, 61
Illinois, 276; .Aiddleport v. ,Etn. life .Tnsurance Co., 82 Illinois, 562."
It was held in The Belleville &e. Railroad Co. v. Gregory,
supra,that the provision of the constitution of that State could
not be evaded by declaring a private act to be a public one.
From these views it follows that the bonds of plaintiff in
error, having been illegally issued, do not constitute a contract
which is protected by the Constitution of the United States.
Juadgment ajirmed.

DETROIT, FORT WAYNE AND BELLE ISLE RAILWAY v. OSBORN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Argued January 15, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
1. Where the plaintiff in error claimed and set up a right under the Constitution of the United States, and the decision of the Supreme Court of the
State was tantamount to the denial of that right, there is a Federal
question and a motion to dismiss will be denied.
2. Under the laws of the State of Michigan the commissioner of railroads
has power to compel a street railroad to install safety appliances in accordance with law, the cost to be shared between it and a steam railroad
occupying the same street, notwithstanding that the steam road is the
junior occupier of the street.
3. There is a difference between ordinary vehicles and electric cars which

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

the State may, in the exercise of its police power, recognize without
denying the company operating the electric cars the equal protection of
the laws.
Where the objection that a statute does not provide for notice is taken
for the first time in this court, and the record shows that there actually
was notice given, it is not open to the plaintiff in error to complain that
the statute did not provide for such notice.

This case involves the legality of an order of the commissioner of railroads of the State of Michigan requiring the plaintiff in error and the Union Terminal Association of Detroit, at
their own cost and expense, to maintain and operate safety
gates and derailing and signalling appliances at Clark avenue
in said city. The order is inserted in the margin.'
1 STATE OF MICmIGAx,

Office of the Commissioner of Railroads.
1 re application of The Common Council of the city of Detroit for additional protection at the Clark avenue crossing of the tracks of the
Union Terminal Association in the city of Detroit, county of Wayne,
Michigan.
Application having been received by the commissioner of railroads from
the common council of the city of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, for
additional protection at the Clark avenue crossing of the tracks of the
Union Terminal Association in said city of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan;
And after a personal inspection of the premises aforesaid, and after
hearing representations of the city officials of the city of Detroit, as well
as the arguments of the representatives of the said railroad company above
named in relation thereto, and having decided after due deliberation that
the public interests required said additional protection at the said crossing;
Now, therefore, by authority vested in me by law, it is hereby ordered:
That within sixty days from date hereof, you, the said Union Terminal
Association 1Railway Company, cause to be constructed and thereafter
operated and maintained, safety gates, and derailing and signalling appliances to be operated day and night by a watchman from a tower. Said
tower to be constructed at the best point of vision at the said crossing, and
so constructed that the said operator may have plain view of movements
of all trains or cars on both of the respective lines. Derailers shall be provided and placed in the tracks of the Fort Wayne and Belle Isle railway,
not less than seventy-five feet from clearance point of crossing, and signals
shall be placed on the tracks of the Union Terminal Association at a distance of not less than 600 feet from said crossing. Said derailers and signals to be operated by levers in said tower, and such levers to be properly
interlocked.

DETROIT &c. RY. v. OSBORN.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The order was made and issued under act 171 of the Public
Acts of the State of 1893, section 5 of which provides as follows:
"The commissioner of railroads shall, as soon as possible
after the passage of this act, examine the crossings of the tracks
of railroads and street railroads then existing, and order such
changes made in the manner of such crossings, or such safeguards for protection against accidents to be provided thereat,
as in his judgment ought to be so made or provided ; -and shall
apportion any expense incident thereto between the companies
affected as he may deem just and reasonable."
The statute and order are attacked as depriving the plaintiff
in error of its property without due process of law, because
compliance with the order " will involve the expenditure of a
large sum of money ; first, in the construction of the said safety
devices, and if the same are constructed, in the maintenance
and repair thereof."
The plaintiff in error is a street railroad company incorporated under the laws of Michigan, and operates a railroad on
certain streets of the city of Detroit, including Clark avenue.
It succeeded in ownership and operation to a company known
as the Fort Street and Elmwood Avenue Railway, which was
also a street railway corporation. The latter company wa authorized to construct its road on Clark avenue, and under its
grant did construct and operate its road thereon. "At the
time the track was constructed," (we quote from the opinion of
the Supreme Court of the State,) "on Clark avenue there was
no railroad, or highway, street, lane, or alley, or crossing of
any kind, over Clark avenue between Fort street and the River
And it is further ordered that cost and expense of the construction,
maintenance and operation of said gates, tower and derailing and signalling
appliance, shall be borne by the Union Terminal Association and the Fort
Wayne and Belle Isle Railway Company, equally, share and share alike.
This appliance to be constructed in accordance with plans to be submitted
to and approved by the commissioner of railroads within thirty days from
date hereof, and such appliance to be further approved by the commissioner of railroads before being put into use. This order is subject to
modification at any time when in the opinion of the commissioner of railroads the public safety will be more effectually secured.
VOL. CLXxxIx-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

road. In 1882 or 1883 the Wabash railroad constructed a single track across Clark avenue and across petitioner's tracks.
Up to that time there had been no crossing over Clark avenue
between Fort street and the River road of any kind, either that
of a railroad, or a public highway, a private way, road, street,
or alley. In the year 1893 or thereabouts the Union Station
was opened at the corner of Third and Fort streets, in Detroit;
and since that time said station has been used jointly by the
Wabash, the Detroit, Lansing and Northern, the Flint and Pere
Marquette, the Detroit and Lima Northern, and the Canadian
Pacific railroads as a terminal point, the tracks over Clark
avenue at this point having been increased from one to three
to accommodate the increased traffic. These tracks are used
as approaches to the Union Station, and incoming and outgoing
trains and cars of all the foregoing roads, except the Canadian
Pacific Railroad, pass over said tracks. There are thirty-eight
regular daily passenger trains crossing Clark avenue upon these
tracks. Besides this, the Canadian Pacific uses the station as
an eastern terminus, connecting with the other roads for purposes of through east and west traffic."
In 1893, the legislature of the State passed the act hereinbefore set out, and under its authority the defendant in error
made the order complained of.
The case was submitted upon the petition of relator (plaintiff
in error), and the answer of respondent (defendant in error),
127 Michigan, 219.
for denied.
and the mandamus prayed sued
out.
was then
This writ of error
JIl>. John C. Donnell! for plaintiff in error.
B'ennan was on the brief.

-Mr.Xichael

-Mr.YTred A. 3fa. n'rd for defendant in error. -ir. Horace
211. Oren, attorney general of the State of Mlichigan, was on
the brief.
JUSTICE McKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
M\fR.

1. A motion is made to dismiss the writ of error on the

DETROIT &c. RY. v. OSBORN.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ground that the record exhibits no Federal question. The
motion is denied. The plaintiff claimed and set up a right under the Constitution of the United States, and the decision of
the Supreme Court of the State was tantamount to the denial
of that rioht. Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay &c. Canal Co., 142
U. S. 254.
2. The argument of plaintiff in error on the merits is that it
was the first to occupy Clark avenue; that at that time there
was no public highway or street crossing at such avenue; that !
subsequently the steam railroads laid their tracks, the Wabash
Railway Company being the first to do so, but installed no
safety devices of any kind, "though it were the junior company;" that the tracks on the other railroads were subsequently
constructed and are controlled by the Union Terminal Company.
It is hence asserted that the plaintiff in error cannot be made
liable for any part of the cost of safety devices, because it is the,
settled constitutional law of Michigan that its occupation constituted no additional burden upon the highway, but is simply
a method of using the highway for the purpose of public travel'
and "in direct furtherance of the purpose for which the highway was established, that the street railroad company in contemplation of the law bears no different relation to the highway
than that of any other person using the highway for the moving of vehicles or for any other method of public or private
travel, and cannot, as between others using the highway for,
like purposes, be required alone to bear the expense of installing and maintaining safety devices at steam railroad crossings
designed for the protection of all the traveling public."
And further, it is also a well established principle of the constitutional law of Michigan, that a junior road seeking to cross
another cannot shift any portion of the expense of maintaining
safety devices without compensation, though the senior company did not insist upon the installation of the devices or compensation at the time the tracks of the junior company were
constructed. In other words, it is asserted that the dangerous
condition arose and yet arises from the steam railroads, and
on them alone can the cost of safety devices be legally imposed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

3. It is also insisted that the law is unconstitutional because
it does not provide for notice.
(1) It was conceded by the Supreme Court of the State that
it was the law of the State that the compensation for the damages caused by crossing the tracks of a railroad by another railroad or by a highway included the cost of making the highway
safe. But the court said: "An examination of these cases will
show they were all cases where it was sought to obtain a right
of way either for a railroad across a highway, or for a highway
across a railroad, or a crossing for one railroad over the right
of way of another; and none of the cases relate to the question
involved here, as to who shall bear the expense of additional
safeguards ordered upon roads which have crossed each other
for a long period of time."
And besides this element of time, the court said that there
were other elements of damage which were either too remote
or depended upon the relation of the roads to the State. Both
elements are important. The conditions which exist to-day
could not have been contemplated years ago, or be the measure of the rights and relations of the respective roads. Those
rights and relations were necessarily determined at the time
the crossings were made. What could not be foreseen could
not have been made a ground of action, and if the growth of
business and population can give rights to either of the bisecting roads it is not clear how the police power of the State
can be limited in its control over either of them. The Supreme
Court of the State recognized this and fortified its views by
Michigan cases.
In The Flint & Pere larquette 1. I. Co. v. Detroit & Bay
City P.. 1R. Co., 64 Michigan, 350, the court in an elaborate opinion expressed the rules of compensation when the right of one
road to cross the tracks of another was sought by condemnation proceedings. In that case compensation was claimed not
only for the use of the crossing, but for the cost of maintainino signals or a crossing system, cost of a watchman, and cost of
stopping trains. These items were rejected. There was some
uncertainty in the evidence, and the items for maintaining signals or the crossing system were disallowed on that ground,

DETROIT &c. RY. v. OSBORN.
189 UI. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but the court pointed out the difference between a "structural
change in the property" for which compensation should be
given, and those things which may be required by the legislature in the exercise of police regulations, as to which the
roads "stand upon an equality before the law, and neither
can levy tribute upon the other as a compensation for obedidience to its requirements." And such regulations, it was observed, "are as binding upon an existing road as one newly
organized." The court cited the case of iJfass. Cent. R. R.
Co. v. Boston, . & F. R. R. Co., 121 Massachusetts, 124, where
Mr. Justice Gray, then Chief Justice of the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, expressed the law as follows-:
"A railroad corporation, across whose road another railroad
or a highway is laid out, has the like right as all individuals or
bodies politic and corporate, owning land or easements, to recover damages for the injury occasioned to its title or right in
the land occupied by its road, taking into consideration any
fences or structures upon the land, or changes in its surface,"
absolutely required by law, or in fact necessary to be made by
the corporation injured, in order to accommodate its own land
to the new condition. Commonwealth v. Boston & X. . .
Co., 3 Cush. 25, 53; Old Colony Railroad Co. v. Plymouth, 14
Gray, 155; Grand Junction Railroad Co. v. County Commissioners of 3iddlesex, 14 Gray, 553. But it is not entitled to
damages for the interruption and inconvenience occasioned to[
its business, nor for the increased liability to damages from accidents, nor for increased expense for ringing the bell, nor for
the risk of being ordered by the county commissioners, when
in their judgment the safety and convenience of the public
may require it, to provide additional safeguards for travelers
crossing its railroad. Proynrietors of Looks and Canals v.
Yas]aua c L. R. R. Co., 10 Cush. 385, 392; Boston & TT
-RailroadCo. v. Old Colony Railroad Co., 12 Cush. 605, 611;
S. C., 3 Allen, 142, 146; Old Colony Railroad Co. v. Plymouth, 14 Gray, 155."
It is however contended that a street railway has a differen
relation to a street than that which a steam railroad has; that
the former "acquires a right to use the same in common with

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

other members of the traveling public, and is not an additional
burden upon the street, but is merely an adaptation of the
highway to a particular means of travel, and does not constitute an additional servitude. A railroad is, on the other band,
an additional servitude, and if it is built across a highway, it
must do all things necessary to render the highway, for all its
legitimate uses, as safe as it was before the railroad was built
across it, or would be, if such railroad were not built across it
at all."
It may be that this difference is recognized as to abutting
property owners or crossing railroads, but it cannot be recognized as limiting or affecting the power of the State to regulate
\the management of the roads in view of the danger of their
peration to the public. Whether electricity be the motive
ower or steam be the motive power there is enough danger
n the operation of either to justify regulation. The record
in this case shows that there are thirty-eight daily passenger
trains crossing Clark avenue, and that the cars of the plaintiff
in error pass every few minutes. It is manifest, as the Supreme
Court of the State observed, that the crossing "is a place of
unusual danger, not only to the passengers in the steam cars,
but also to the passengers in the electric cars," and that the
danger is caused by both. In such situation the city is surely
not powerless to act, nor before acting must it ascertain the
exact quantum of damage caused by each road, and by that
standard assign the cost of protecting the public. See Railroad Co. v. Street Bly. Co., 89 -[aine, 328.
It is also objected to the order that it deprives plaintiff in
error of the equal protection of the laws. The argument to
support this contention is an extension of that which claims
that the use of the street by the plaintiff in error "is merely

~an adaptation of the highway to the particular mneans of travel."
)And it is deduced that an electric street railway has an equality of rights with ordinary vehicles. That we think there is
a difference between ordinary vehicles and cars propelled by
electricity, which may be recognized by the State in the exercise
of its police power, we have sufficiently indicated.
(2) The objection that the statute does not provide for notice

UNITED STATES v. MISSION ROCK CO.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

seems to be made for the first time in this court. It is not
mentioned in the majority opinion nor in the dissenting opinion.
It is not particularized in the petition for the writ of error nor
in the assignment of errors. In the 'etition for this writ of
error it is recited that the plaintiff in error in its application
for mandamus claimed that the order of the railroad colulmissioners was invalid because it deprived plaintiff in error of its
property without due process of law and denied it the equal
protection of the laws. And also recited that on the "issue
framed therein said cause went to a final hearing." The cause
was submitted on petition and answer, and the petition alleged
"that notice was given by respondent to relator and the Union
-Terminal Association, and the hearing had, at which relator's
representative objected to the making of said order." It is
therefore not open to the plaintiff in error to complain that
the statute does not provide for notice.
Judgment affi -rzed.

UNITED STATES v. MISSION IOCK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPE&LS FOR THE IINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 198. Argued March 11, 1903.-Decided April 13, 1903.
The State of California upon its admission into the Union acquired absolute
property in, and dominion and sovereignty over, all soils under the tidewaters within her limits, with the consequent right to dispose of the
title to any part of said soils in such manner as she might deem proper,
subject to the paramount right of nav1gation over the waters, so far as
such navigation might be required for the necessities of commerce with
foreign nations or among the several States, the regulation of which is
vested in the general government. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1.
The State of California pursuant to an act of legislature issued its patent
in 1872 for certain submerged lands in San Francisco Bay, about fourteen
acres and upwards, which the patentee's grqntees improved by filling in
and building docks and warehouses. Within the boundaries were two
small rocks or islands one fourteen one hundredths of an acre and the
other one one hundredth of an acre in area. In 1899 the President made

