OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

POTTER v. HALL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 168. Submitted February 24,1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
Smith v. Townsend, 148 U. S. 490; Payne v. Robinson, 169 U. S. 323, and
Calhoun v. Violet, 173 U. S. 60, decided only that one who, in violation
of law, was within the territory in Oklahoma opened for settlement under
the act of March 2, 1889, and the President's proclamation executing
the same at the moment of time when the race for land began, was disqualified from entering land. In those cases the question was reserved
whether one was disqualified because he had been in the territory prior
to the time fixed for its opening, but had retired from the territory and
on the day of the opening had made the race for land on an equality with
others. Held, therefore, that the court below erred in treating the cases
in question as decisive of the question which they reserved.
The Land Department charged with the execution of the statute having in
many rulings held that prior entry did not disqualify provided the one
who had so entered had returned and taken part in the race with the
others, unless the prior entry conferred some manifest advantage, which
would not otherwise have been possessed, Held, that as this construction
of the statute was in accord with the spirit and intent of the act it should
not be disregarded by the courts upon the ground that it was in conflict
with the mere letter of the statute.
The ruling of the Land Department in this particular case that the prior
going into the prohibited territory by an entryman who had retired and
taken part in the race on an equality with others did not disqualify the
entryman, because the prior entry bad given him no particular advantage which he would not otherwise have possessed, Held, to be a finding
of fact not reviewable by the courts.

THIS case involves conflicting claims to a tract of land in Oklahoma. Potter, the appellant, who was plaintiff below, claiming to be the owner by title derived under the homestead laws
of the United States, sued to recover the property. Mirs. Hall,
the appellee, the defendant below, by answer and cross petition
averred that herself and husband, being duly qualified to enter
the land under the homestead laws, were the first to enter upon
and occupy it in the year 1889, when it was opened for settlement, and that they had resided on it as their homestead up to
the time of the death of the husband, and she thereafter had

PO'TER v. HIALL.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

continued to reside on it as a homestead up to the bringing of
the suit. It was alleged that Potter, claiming that he had duly
entered upon the land, contested the right of Hall to make entry
thereof, on the ground that Hall did not possess the requisite
qualifications and had abandoned the land, and that Hall, on
the other hand, had contested the right of Potter on the ground
that he had unlawfully entered upon the land prior to the time
when it was open for settlement in violation of the act of 1889
and the proclamation of the President carrying out the provisions of that act. It was, moreover, alleged that the result of
these contests was a recommendation by the local land officers
that Hall's application be approved and that Potter's be rejected. A copy of the-report of the register and receiver was
made a part of the cross petition. It was then averred that the
Secretary of the Interior, in reviewing the action of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, passing on the recommendation of the register and receiver, had approved the finding of the local officers, but that subsequently the Acting
Secretary had reviewed the previous decision of the Secretary,
had rejected the claim of Hall and sustained the right of Potter,
and that the patent of the United States had issued to Potter
in consequence of such decision. The opinion of the Secretary
on the first hearing and that on the second were also made part
of the cross petition. Charging that the decision of the Secretary in favor of Potter involved error of law reviewable by the
court, the prayer of the cross petitioner was that, as the widow
of Hall, she be recognized as entitled to make entry of the land;
that Potter be adjudged to hold the land under the patent of
the United States for her benefit, and that a decree be awarded
directing a conveyance. To the cross petition Potter demurred
on the ground of no cause of action. The demurrer having
been overruled, and Potter declining to plead further, a decree
was entered in favor of the defendant Hall, adjudging the land
to her and decreeing a conveyance. The Supreme Court of the
Territory affirmed the decree. 11 Oklahoma, 173.
The material facts found by the Land Department are these:
Potter entered on the land the 22d of April, 1889, the day upon
which it was open for settlement, and continuously maintained

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

his residence thereon. Hall first entered upon a part of the
land about six months after, that is, in October, 1889. The
facts concerning Potter's entry were stated by the Secretary in
his opinion on the first hearing as follows:
"The history of the case and the material facts are set out
in the decision appealed from and need not be restated in detail. The tract in question formed a part of the lands in Oldahoma which were opened to settlement at noon on April 22,
1889; shortly before this date Potter had been appointed by
the Indian agent of the Cheyenne and Arapahoe agency as
assistant chief of police, with instructions to proceed to the
east line of the reservation, preserve order and prevent any
settlement on the same. The east line of the Cheyenne and
Arapahoe reservation is also the west line of the lands opened
for settlement as aforesaid, and is within possibly a quarter of
a mile from the tract in question. On this morning of April 22,
1889, some three or four hours before the hour of noon, Potter,
who it seems was at said line, seeing some freighters camped
on the land involved, went thereon to order them off; he then
returned to the line, and (at) the hour of noon started in the
race for a claim; he reached the land before any of his competitors, and, as he states, commenced his settlement at one
half or one minute after twelve o'clock."
The deduction which the Secretary drew from these facts
was thus stated by him:
"In my opinion the facts just stated sustain the conclusion
reached by the local officers to the effect that Potter was not
qualified to enter the tract in question by going into the territory on the morning of April 22, 1889, before the hour when
the lands therein were opened to settlement; he necessarily
secured an opportunity to observe the various tracts lying near
the line and the ways of reaching them, and this taken in connection with the fact that at the said hour he went directly
from the line to the land in question makes it plain in my
mind that if he did not previously select the tract of land in
dispute, he obtained information that gave him an advantage
over rival claim seekers. It follows under the prevailing
rulings, Dean v. Simmons, 17 L. D. 526, and cases cited, that

POTTER v. HALL.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Potter is not qualified to make entry of land in Oklahoma, and
that his application to enter the tract in question must be
rejected."
The Acting Secretary, when he came to consider the case on
a rehearing or review, whilst accepting the facts concerning
Potter's entry as stated in the previous opinion, drew from
them a different conclusion from that which had previously
been deduced. He said:
"Accepting this statement as correct, and a reexamination of
the record satisfies me of its correctness so far as it goes, I
scarcely think the conclusion warranted that he necessarily secured an opportunity to observe the various tracts of land lying
near the land and the way of reaching them, so that he obtained
information that gave him an advantage over rival claim seekers.
He had been employed at the Cheyenne and Arapahoe agency
near by since 1883, and for six years before the opening of the
country to settlement he had lived in close proximity to the land
in dispute. He had nothing to gain or"to learn. Therefore, by
the short excursion with which he is charged, and which it cannot be denied, was made in the performance of duty devolved
upon him by the orders of the agent who appointed him to the
command of the police at that point, he neither gained nor
sought advantage, and it was error to hold that under the circumstances of entry into the territory he was disqualified
thereby."
.Mr. J. W. Shartel and Mr. J H. Everest for appellant.
.fr. Charles P. Lincoln and M'. Xifar, _). Libby for appellee.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

The Supreme Court of the Territory disregarded the final action of the Land Department as expressed in the opinion of the
Acting Secretary on the rehearing, and decreed that Potter
held the land in trust for the defendant and appellee on two

OCTOBER TERMN,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

grounds: First, because the final action of the department was
held to be a violation of the provisions of the law opening the
land in question to settlement ; and, second, because, as stated
by the court, "We feel less hesitation in reversing the conclusion of the last tribunal of the Land Department 'on review,'
not only because the conclusion we now arrive at is that which
must necessarily be arrived at uyon the facts, (italics ours,) but

also because it was the one accepted by the Secretary of the
Interior, as well as the Commissioner of the General Land
Office." The conclusion of the court, that the final action of
the Land Department was contrary to law, was rested upon
what was deemed to be the controlling effect of the rulings in
Smith v. Townsend, 148 U. S. 490; Payne v. Robertson, 169

U. S. 323, and Calhoun v. Violet, 173 U. S. 60. But the decisions relied upon do not sustain the conclusion which the court
deduced from them. In all three of the cases the only question decided was the validity of an entry made by one who
was within the inhibited territory at the time when the land
was opened by law for settlement. The cases therefore did not
involve whether one who was outside of the territory at the
moment of time when the land was opened, lost his right to
take part in the race into the territory because at a time previous to that moment, he had been within the territory in question. Indeed, not only was the question which this case presents
not embraced within the decisions upon which the court below
based its conclusion, but it was expressly excluded from the
rulings made in the cases in question. Thus, in Smith v. Townsend, in referring to the statute and the President's proclamation opening the land for settlement, it was said in the concluding passage of the opinion (p. 501):
"It may be said that if this literal and comprehensive meaning is given to these words, it would follow that any one who,
after March 2 and before April 22, should chance to step within
the limits of the territory would be forever disqualified from
taking a homestead therein. Doubtless lie would be within the
letter of the statute; but if at the hour of noon on April 22,
when the legal barrier was by the President destroyed, he was
in fact outside of the limits of the territory, it may perhaps be

POTTER v'. HALL.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

said that if within the letter he was not within the spirit of the
law, and, therefore, not disqualified from taking a homestead.
Be that as it may-and it will be time enough to consider that
question when it is presented-it is enough now to hold that
one who was within the territorial limits at the hour of noon,
April 22, was, within both the letter and the spirit of the statute, disqualified to take a homestead therein."
The court below having then erroneously held that the case
was controlled by the previous adjudications of this court, we
are called upon to determine the question which was expressly
reserved in Smith v. Townsend, that is, whether one who was
outside of the legal barrier at twelve o'clock m. on April 22,
the day and time when that barrier was removed by operation
of law and the terms of the proclamation of the President, was
disqualified from participating in the race for the land because
prior to that date and within the prohibited period he had been
within the territory which was thereafter to be opened for settlement. The statutes and proclamation of the President by
which this question is controlled were fully set out in Snith v.
Townsend, supra, and need not be at length restated. Suffice
it to say, that the provisions opening the land for settlement,
regulating the mode of settlement and the President's proclamation executing these statutes, are found in the act of March 1,
1889, 25 Stat. 757, the act of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 980 and
1005, and the proclamation of the President of March 22, 1889,
26 Stat. 1546. The first of these acts contained the provision
that "any person who may enter upon any part of said lands
in said agreement mentioned prior to the time that the same
are opened to settlement by act of Congress shall not be permitted to occupy or to make entry of such lands or lay any
claim thereto." The act of the subsequent day (March 2,1889)
contained the following provision :
"But until said lands are opened for settlement by proclamation of the President, no person shall be permitted to enter
upon and occupy the same, and no person violating this provision shall ever be permitted to enter any of said lands or acquire
any right thereto."
The proclamation of the President contained these words:

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

"Warning is hereby again expressly given, that no person
entering upon and occupying said lands before said hour of
twelve o'clock, noon, of the twenty-second day of April, A. D.
eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, hereinbefore fixed, will ever
be permitted to enter any of said lands or acquire any rights
thereto."
Doubtless, as observed in Smith v. Townsend, a rigorous
adherence to the mere letter of these statutes and the terms of
the proclamation would exclude every person from the right to
enter and occupy land within the prohibited territory, even although such person was outside of the territory, and therefore
on an equality with all others if perchance such persons had
accidentally or otherwise gone into the prohibited territory between the second day of Mlarch and the twenty-second day of
April. But it is also true that if the provisions of the statute
and proclamation be enforced, not according to their mere letter, but in harmony with the intention which may be fairly
deduced from them, a contrary rule would result. Whilst, as
held in Smith v. Townsend and the cases referred to which have
followed it, obviously the purpose of the statute was to exclude
any one from entering land who was within the territory at
the period fixed for the opening, it may well be doubted
whether the words " enter upon and occupy," as used in the act
of 1889 and in the President's proclamation, embrace the mere
accidental or casual presence in the prohibited territory subsequent to the 2d of March and prior to the 22d of April of one
who was outside on the 22d of April, and therefore in a position of substantial equality with others seeking to make the
race for the land.
The Land Department, charged with the execution of the
act, was early called upon to determine whether one who was
outside of the territory at the time of the opening, and took
part in the race for land was disqualified because, subsequent to
the second of March, and before the opening, he had been within the limits. In the case referred to the entryman had, on the
20th of April, crossed the line accidentally and gone two miles
into the territory, but on being informed of the fact, had retired and waited with others on the line until the 22d, the day

POTTER v. HALL.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of opening. After considering the terms of the statute the conclusion was reached that an entry of this kind was not within
the spirit of the prohibition of the statute, and the entry was
confirmed. Donmell v. ]Kittrell,(1892) 15 L. D. 580. This ruling was followed in H1iggins v. Adams, 18 L. D. 598, where it
was held that one who had gone into the disputed territory on
the morning of the day of the opening for the purpose of watering his team, and who, on completing this object, had returned
to the boundary and made a start with the others, did not come
within the spirit of the statute. In Curnutt v. Jones, 21 L. D.
40, (1895) the whole subject was elaborately reviewed and many
prior cases referred to. Briefly the facts in the case were these:
The entryman had resided for several years in the vicinage of
the prohibited territory, and had habitually entered therein for
the purpose of getting his mail. On the day, however, of the
opening he was at the line with others and took part in the race
for land. It was held that the prior entry did not deprive him
of the right to enter land; that whether entry prior to the day
of the opening affected the right to make entry would depend
upon the facts of each particular case, and upon whether, in considering them, it was concluded that the prior entry placed the
one who had made it in such a position of advantage over others
as to render it unjust and inequitable to allow him to make an
entry of land. In summing up the case Mr. Secretary Smith,
in his opinion, said:
"Jones, the defendant in this case, had lived for some time
on the border of the territory, within less than a mile from the
line, and almost from the necessity of his situation was familiar
with the lands in the immediate vicinity. His information
respecting them, and particularly respecting the tract subsequently entered by him, is shown to have been acquired long
prior to March 2, 1889, and as was well said in the case of
Golden v. Cole's H-eirs, supra, 'it was impossible to deprive

people who had been over the territory of the knowledge they
had thus acquired.' His periodical visits to Oklahoma City,
which was at once his post office, his most convenient and accessible railway station, and his market town, do not appear to
have brought him any advantage over other persons seeking
lands in the territory."

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

In Tipton v. 3aloey, 23 L. D. 186, (1896) it was held that
one who within the prohibited period had passed along the
highways in the territory was not disqualified for making an
entry, provided be was outside of the line on the day of the
opening and took part on an equality with others in the effort
to secure land. And rulings to the like effect were made in
Hensley v. Tavcr, 24 L. D. 92, and Henderson v. Sdith, 28
L. D. 303. The settled rule then applied by the Land Department in the execution of the statute is that one who took part
in the race for land on the day of the opening was not prohibited from taking land because of a prior entry into the territory unless it be shown that manifest advantage resulted to
the entryman from his previous going into the territory. The
rule thus for a long period and consistently enforced must obviously have become the foundation of many rights of property. And as we consider that the rule thus applied in the
practical administration of the statute by the officials by law
charged with its execution conforms to its intention, we are
unwilling to overthrow it by a resort to a narrow and technical
construction. It remains only to consider whether error was
committed by the department in finally ruling that the entry
made by Potter on the morning of the 22d, before be returned
to the line to take part in the race, involved error of law reviewable by the courts. But as such entry did not, as a
matter of law, preclude Potter's right to go outside of the territory and take part in the race for land, but depended upon
whether, as a matter of fact, he obtained by his previous going
into the territory a substantial advantage over others, which
he would not have otherwise possessed, it follows that the final
conclusion of the department that no such advantage resulted,
involved but the finding of an ultimate fact and not a conclusion of law, and it is, therefore, not reviewable. If the facts
found by the Secretary had no tendency to sustain the conclusion reached by him it might be that a question of law would
arise, but such is not the case. Indeed, in view of the finding
that Potter had been for a long period of time living across the
line in close proximity to the land which he entered, and which
was only a quarter of a mile distant from the place where the

FARMERS' &c. INS. CO. v. DOBNEY.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

race began, and that he reached the land in two minutes from
the time when the start was made, it might well be argued
that his going into the territory, as stated, had no tendency to
establish that he obtained an advantage by reason of acquiring
information which he had not previously possessed. But so to
say would lead only to the conclusion that as a matter of law
the department rightly held that Potter was a qualified entryman. The fact that the final conclusion as to the ultimate
facts reached by the department differed from the conception
of such ultimate facts entertained by the department in previous
stages of the controversy, affords no ground for disregarding
the conclusion of ultimate fact finally reached, which was binding between the parties.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory must be
reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings
in accordancewith this opinion.

FARMERS' AND MERCHANTS' INSURANCE

COM-

PANY v. DOBNEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 189. Submitted March 9, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Where the allowance of an attorney's fee under the provisions of a state
statute is the basis of the Federal right asserted, and it appears that one
of the assignments of error relied upon before, and considered and expressly decided by, the highest court of the State was that the statute was
unconstitutional and void and in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment for the want of mutuality and deprived the plaintiff in error of the
equal protection of the law, the motion to dismiss will be denied.
Sections 43, 44, 45 of chapter 48 of the laws of Nebraska of 1899, by which
the court upon rendering judgment for a total loss sued for against an
insurance company upon any policy of insurance against loss on real property by fire, tornado or lightning shall allow the plaintiff a reasonable
attorney's fee to be taxed as costs is not repugnant to the equality clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment either because it arbitrarily subjects insurance companies to a liability for such fees when other defendants in
other cases are not subjected to such burden, or because the fee is to be

