KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

law, and the change of phrase has entirely resulted from the
change of government. The sovereignty has been transferred
from one man to the collective body of the people; and he who
before was a 'subject of the King' is now 'a citizen of the
State.' "
In that view the people of France are properly described as
citizens of that Republic.
As complainants were citizens of a foreign State and defendant was a citizen of Nebraska, as affirmatively appeared from
the pleadings, no issue of fact arising in that regard, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
]Decree r'eversed and cause remanded for rehearing on the
merits.
]HENNESSY V. MOISE, No. 204.

MRit. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER.

HENNESSY v. MAY,No. 205.

These cases must take the same

course as that just decided, and the same decrees will be entered.

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 161. Argued January 30, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Even if the making of a government survey, which could be made without
any material injury to soil or timber, involved a trespass, it would be of
so fugitive and temporary a character as to lack such elements of irreparable injury as would furnish the basis for equity interposition. Nor
will a bill of peace lie where the legal remedy is adequate, and where the
persons directly interested are not made parties, are not numerous, and
assert separate rights.
The administration of public lands is vested in the Land Department, and
its power in that regard cannot be divested by the fraudulent action of a
subordinate officer outside of his authority and in violation of the statute. The courts can neither correct nor make surveys. Thepower to do
so is in the political department of the government, and the Land Department must primarily determine what are public lands subject to sur-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

vey and to disposal, and as it is possessed of this power in general, its
exercise of jurisdiction cannot be questioned by the courts before it has
taken final action.
A bill in equity cannot be maintained to enjoin the officers of the Land Department from surveying land which years before had been omitted from
an alleged survey, the complainants having purchased lands under such
alleged survey, which did not include that in question. The remedy for
any infringement of complainant's rights is at law after the administrative action of the government has been concluded.

Mu.PHY and others filed their bill of complaint in the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota against Kirwan, as United States surveyor general for that district, and
Thomas II. Croswell, as deputy surveyor, to enjoin them
from surveying, by direction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, certain lands claimed by the Land Department to be unsurveyed public lands of the United States.
Complainants alleged that they owned lots 1, 2 and 3 of section 2 ; lots 1 and 2 of section 3 ; lots 1 and 8 and parts of lots
6 and 7 of section 4; and certain described parts of sections 9,
10 and 11, in township 57 north, range 17 west, fourth principal meridian, Minnesota, deriving title thereto through mesne
conveyances and patents from the government; that the land
was surveyed by Henry S. Howe in June, 1876, and record of
the survey and field notes were approved by the surveyor general August 7, 1876, and a plat therefrom was by hhn duly
made and snbmitted to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office; that complaint was filed against the accuracy and good
faith of the survey, which the Commissioner dismissed, and
June 11, 1879, approved the survey and plat, which were duly
filed and are the only survey and plat of the township ever
made or adopted by the government, and according to them the
government sold and disposed of all the land in the township;
that the survey, field notes and plat were incorrect, and did not
accurately show the location and subdivisions of the land and
water of the township, for that Cedar Island Lake is smaller
than delineated, and several of the complainants' fractional lots
are larger, and others are smaller, than shown on the plat; that
complainants purchased said lands for value as extending to the
lake upon an estimate of the timber thereon without knowledge

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of the inaccuracy or fraud of the survey; that the principal
consideration inducing such purchase was that the land bordered on the lake and they owned other timber lands, the timber from which could be brought to market by floating through
the lake and its outlet down the St. Louis River, then the only
means of transport; that in 1892, five certain settlers, knowing
complainants' rights and claims, petitioned for a survey of said
lands, which the surveyor general recommended to the Commisioner of the General Land Office should be allowed, but the
petition was disallowed, whereupon on appeal to the Secretary
of the Interior such proceedings were thereafter had that in
October, 1895, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
directed the United States surveyor general of the district of
Minnesota to make a resurvey, which order was ratified and
confirmed in November, 1896; that the contract for the resurvey of said land had been let by the surveyor general to Croswell and the survey was about to commence.
The bill averred that "by a new survey of said lands your
orators will be put to great and vexatious litigation in making
proof of their title in actions against parties who are wholly
irresponsible; that a very large amount of the timber standing
as aforesaid on the land of your orators and owned by them
will be destroyed in the making of such proposed survey and
the remainder thereof exposed to damage by fire by reason of
said resurvey and your orators will be thereby irreparably injured."
The prayer was that the "surveror general, his agents, attorneys, solicitors, and servants may be restrained by the order
and injunction of this honorable court from entering into any
contract for the survey of the lands herein described, or from
surveying the same, or from taking any action for a survey of

said lands or any part thereof, and that boundaries of said lands
of your orators may be defined and set out in the decree and
order of this honorable court and that all necessary direction
may be given them for that purpose and to establish the boundaries of said lands, and that your orators may be protected in
the use and enjoyment of such lands so owned by them as aforesaid extending to and including the shores of said Cedar Island

OCTO3ER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

180 U. S.

Lake and to the center of said lake, and that said defendant
and his successors in office may be perpetually enjoined from
letting said contract for the survey of said land or any part
thereof, and from surveying the same or any part thereof, and
that your orators may have such other and further relief as
to this court may seem meet."
Argument was had on the application for a temporary injunction and the matter taken under advisement, whereupon
defendants filed their joint answer to the bill.
Defendants admitted the making of a contract of survey of
the unsurveyed lands in these sections lying between Howe's
purported meander line and Cedar Lake; that in 18'76 a contract was made with Howe for the survey of the township, and
that he returned the field notes of a pretended survey from
which a plat was made and approved, but defendants averred
that Howe surveyed only the exterior lines of the township,
and in fact made no subdivision thereof, nor surveyed the lands
within it; that his field notes were false, fraudulent and fictitious, and the plat made therefrom was false and incorrect;
they admitted that the survey and plat were approved by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office after complaint to
him of its inaccuracy, but not until after withdrawal of the
charge of inaccuracy by the person making it. They admitted
that an exhibit attached to the bill was a true copy of such approved plat; they denied that all of the lands were disposed of
by the government, and alleged that about 1200 acres in these
sections were never disposed of and were still unsurveyed, lying
between Cedar Lake and the lots described, all of which unsurveved land is the land referred to, and is by the plat made from
Howe's field notes indicated as part of Cedar Island Lake; they
allege that no lots conveyed to the complainants were smaller
than shown on the plats; that the true relative size of the lake
to that shown in the plat was that shown on an exhibit attached,
and that the land between the lake and the boundary line of the
fractiobal lots was 1200 acres of unsurveyed government land
as referred to; defendants denied the good faith of complainants and alleged complainants' full participation in the contest
proceedings resulting in the decision and order for the survey

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of these lands, and that the Commissioner and the Secretary of
the Interior had full jurisdiction to pass on the question and to
make the decision and order. The answer denied that the timber on complainants' land would be destroyed or damaged in
making such survey, and denied every averment of the bill except as in the answer averred or denied.
The Circuit Court granted the preliminary injunction, and
its order was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit. 83 Fed. Rep. 275. An appeal was taken to
this court and dismissed. 170 U. S. 205.
The cause then went to final hearing, and the Circuit Court
found the facts as follows:
"1. On or about April 26, 1876, a contract for the survey of
all lands in township 57 north, of range 17 west, in Saint Louis
County, Minnesota, was made by the government of the United
States with one Henry S. Howe, as a deputy surveyor of the
United States, and thereafter said Howe made and filed what
purported to be field notes of a survey of said township, from
which a purported official plat of said township was thereafter
made and approved by the surveyor general of the United
States for the District of Minnesota and by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, of which plat Exhibit A attached
to the bill of complaint is a substantially correct copy.
"2. There is no evidence, nor any marks upon the ground,
to indicate that any actual survey of said township 57 was ever
made by said Howe, as required by his said contract, and by
the rules and regulations of the General Land Office, or at all,
beyond the running and due marking of the exterior boundary
lines of said township, where the section, quarter, and other
posts and markings established by him are and always have
been clear, distinct, and readily found and traced. There is
no evidence on the ground that section lines were ever run by
him in or across said township, or section corner posts or quarter posts ever located or set by him, except a cornbr post at the
northwest corner of section thirty-six (36) and a quarter post
in the western line of said section thirty-six (36), and there is
no evidence that witness trees were ever blazed or marked by
him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

"3. Cedar Island Lake is a navigable, deep, and permanent
body of water, fed principally by springs, having an area of
about nine hundred (900) acres, instead of about eighteen hundred (1800) acres as described in the field notes of Howe and
shown on said official plat of said township. Instead of the
shores of said lake being low and swampy as stated in said
field notes, the banks are generally high and sloping lands,
suitable for agriculture, extending around the lake, and support
a good growth of pine and other forest trees large enough for
lumbering, such as will not grow in water. The condition was
the same in 1876, and no material part of the land surrounding
the lake is accretion. Southerly and westerly of said Cedar
Island Lake are five other deep, navigable, and permanent
lakes in the same township, none of which are shown by the
field notes of Howe's survey or upon said government official
plat of said township, and all of which have, since the making
of said official plat, been sold and patented by the government
as land according to said plat.
"4. There is no evidence upon the ground that any meander
line of said Cedar Island Lake was ever surveyed by said Howe,
or any meander posts placed by him about said lake, except one
where the north line of said township encounters said lake.
And the outlet of said lake is at a different place from that described in said field notes and shown upon said official plat.
After the making of the said survey and plat and before its approval, complaints touching the accuracy thereof were made
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, but on the
withdrawal of such complaints the said survey and plat were
approved.
"5. The land lying between the actual water line of said
Cedar Island Lake and the meander line of that lake, as delineated on said official plat of said township, comprises the land
in controversy in this suit, and is the same land directed to be
surveyed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office and
referred to in the surveyor's contract, which is attached as
Exhibit A to the answer in this suit, being therein described as
' the public lands situate in secs. 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, and 11, in township No. 57 N., IR.17 W., of the 4th principal meridian, lying

KIRWAN r. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

between the "old meander boundary of Cedar Island Lake," as
given by the original field notes of Henry S. Howe, U. S.
deputy surveyor, approved by the surveyor general of Minnesota, Aug. 19, 1876, and the shore line of said Cedar Island
Lake.'
"6. Prior to the commencement of this suit the United States
has sold, and by its patents has conveyed to the purchaser, according to said official plat made from said Howe, survey, all
the land in said township 57, as the same appeared upon said
plat; to which plat all of said patents expressly referred; it
being then and still the only government plat of said township.
"7. The complainants are the grantees and owners bymesne
conveyances from the patentees of the record title to the following-described fractional lots in said township, to wit: Lots
one (1), two (2), three (3), in section two (2); lots one (1) and
two (2), in section three (3); lots one (1) and eight (8), and portions of lots three (3), five (5), and six (6), in section four (4);
lots one (1), two (2), three (3), and four (4), in section nine (9);
lots one (1), two (2), three (3), and four (4), in section ten (10);
and lot three (3) in section eleven (11), being the same lands
which are more particularly described in complainants' bill;
and each of which fractional lots appear and are represented on
said official plat as bounded by and upon said Cedar Island
Lake.
"8. So far as appears none of the patentees of said lands
had any notice or knowledge of any fraud or misconduct on
the part of said Howe in or about the making of said survey
and field notes, and all were purchasers in good faith of said
lands.
"9. Complainants purchased said fractional lots of land of
the patentees or their grantees for the pine timber thereon, and
the convenience of landing the same in the said Cedar Island
Lake, to be driven to the place of manufacture; and before
such purchase, in the year 1883, caused said lands to be explored and examined by an experienced timber estimator, who
in making such examination used, as is customary in such
cases, a copy of said official plat of said township which did
not have upon it in any statement of the acreage or amount of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

land in any of the subdivisions; and who reported to the complainants his estimate of the amount of pine timber on said
lands, and the general character of said land, and the riparian
character thereof as bounded upon said Cedar Island Lake;
but did not discover or report any fraud or error in the survey
of said township, or any error or mistake in the said official
plat. And the said complainants purchased, paid for and took
conveyances of said lands in good faith, and without any notice
or knowledge of any such fraud, error, or mistake.
"10. The other permanent lakes in said township, not shown
upon such official plat, but appearing thereon as land, and since
sold and patented by the government as land according to such
official plat, include areas equal to the area of said Cedar
Island Lake; and portions of such lakes were purchased by
complainants as land with their other purchases in said township.
"11. The survey sought to be restrained in this suit was
ordered by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, upon
the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in a proceeding
instituted by certain settlers upon the land in controversy; of
which proceedings the complainants had due notice, and in
which they appeared."
And the Circuit Court decreed:
"That the complainants are the grantees and owners, by
mesne conveyances from the patentees, of the title of record
and, in fact, to the following-described fractional lots, situate
in township fifty-seven (57) north-range seventeen (17) west, in
the county of St. Louis, State of Minnesota, to wit:" [Here
follows description of lots,] "being the same lands which are
more particularly described in the complainants' bill of coinplaint herein; and that said above-described fractional lots
extend to and are bounded by and upon the actual waters of
Cedar Island Lake.
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the defendants have no jurisdiction or authority to meddle with said
lands or to make the survey complained of in the bill of complaint herein ; and
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the in-

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

junction heretofore issued in this cause be and the same is
hereby made perpetual, and that the said defendants and their
successors, representatives, and assigns be and they are hereby
severally and perpetually restrained and enjoined from surveying or causing to be surveyed the lands hereinbefore described,
or any part thereof." And for costs.
Appeal was then taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals and
the decree affirmed. 109 Fed. Rep. 35-4. Thereupon the case
was brought to this court.
The following drawing taken from petitioners' brief sufficiently illustrates the situation:

Mr. Assistant Attorney General 'Fan Devanterfor appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney Webster was with him on the brief.
-Mr. Benton Hanc4ett and Mr. X. H. Stanford, with whom
Xr. S. D. Litckett was on the brief, for appellees.
I. The reference in the patents to the plat makes the plat as
much a part of the patent as it would be had the plat been incorporated into and made, in fact, a part of the patent itself.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Argument for Appellees.

189 U. S.

By the plat designating the lots as bounded by the lake
showing the lake to be the boundary of the lots, the effect
to be given to the patent is the same as it would be if the description of the lots in the patent had in express language
said that the lots extend to and are bounded by the shore of
the lake. The lake is thus made a designated natural object
constituting a boundary of the lots. It is a boundary monument of the lots. Lincoln v. Milder, 29 Maine, 169 ; Erskine
v. -Moulton, 66 Maine, 276 ; Davis v. ]?ainsford, 17 Massachusetts, 207; TVitman v. Boston & 32faine 1?. R. Co., 3 Allen,
133, 139 ; Boston Tater Power Co. v. Boston, 127 Massachusetts, 374; Jiforgan v. -3foore,3 Gray, 319, 321, 322; ._ rdock
"
v. Cliapman, 9 Gray, 156; Rodgers v. Parker, 9 Gray, 445;
Fox v. Union Sugar Refinery, 109 Massachusetts, 292; Parker
v. Bennett, 11 Allen, 388 ; fasterson v. )Monroe, 105 California,
431 ; Craginv. Powell, 128 U. S. 691.
In the patents by which these lots in question are conveyed
by the United States there is no description of the lands other
than by reference to the plat. Under the above authorities,
the description by the plat is to have the same effect as though
the language of the patent in terms stated that the lake is a
boundary of the lots.
II. The patents, by reference to the plat, having described
the lands as extending to and bounded by the lake, conveyed
all the land within the descriptions, and the United States is
estopped to deny that the lots extend to and are bounded by
the lake. Thomas v. Poole, 7 Gray, 83; Parker v. Smith, 17
Massachusetts, 411, 415; O'Linda v. Lothrop, 21 Pick. 292;
Rodgers v. Parker, 9 Gray, 445 ; Fox v. Union Sugar Refinory, 109 Massachusetts, 292; Farnsworthv. Taylor, 9 Gray,
162 ; Stetson v. Dow, 16 Gray, 372 ; Lunt v. Holland, 14 Massachusetts, 149.
Estoppel applies against theUnited States as it applies under
like circumstances against a private person. As under the
above authorities a private person conveying the lands by reference to such plat would be estopped to deny that the land
extended to and was bounded by the lake, so is the United
States estopped'to deny the same facts. Lindsey v. Hawes, 2

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Black, 554, 560; Woodruff v. Tra/pnall, 10 Howard, 190, 207;
Branson v. Wirth, 17 Wall. 32, 42; Clark v. United States, 95
U. S. 539, 544; Pengrav. .kunz, 29 Fed. Rep. 830, 836; Hough
v. Buchanan, 27 Fed. Rep. 328, 331 ; Jndianav. .Ailk, 11 Fed.
Rep. 389, 396, 397; United States v. -MilitaryRoad Co., 41 Fed.
Rep. 493, 501; United States v. .AeLaughlin, 30 Fed. Rep. 147,
161, 162; Commonwealth v. Philadelphia &a. Turnpike Co.,
153 Pa. St. 47; State v. Janesville Water Power Co., 92 Wisconsin, 496; fichigan v. F. & P. X2.1. R. Co., 89 Iichigan,
481; Xichigan v. Jackson, I. & S. R. Co., 69 Fed. Rep. 116,
120, 121, 123 ; Commonwealth v. Heirs of Andre, 3 Pick. 224;
Menard's Heirs v. lflassey, 8 How. 293, 313, 314.
Under the above authorities, the United States, in a suit
brought in its behalf, would be estopped to deny that Cedar
Island Lake was the boundary of the lots conveyed by the
patents.
III. The descriptions of these fractional lots contained in the
patents, being lots as they appear by their numbers, and by
their boundaries designated on the plat, and the lake itself being made the boundary, the boundary by the lake thus made
governs the description, notwithstanding no courses, distances,
nor computed contents correspond with such boundary. This
is. clearly decided by the following cases, even though it may
be found that no survey of the lots had in fact been made.
Newsome v. Pryor's Lessee, 7 Wheat. 7; .Mc-A r's Lessee v.
SWalker, 9 Cranch, 173, 179; Preston's Heirs v. Bowmar, 6
Wheat. 580; Higueras v. United States, 5 Wall. 827, 835, 836;
.forrow v. Whitney, 95 U. S. 551; County of St. Clair v. JLovingston, 23 Wall. 46, 62,63; .2urdock v. Chapman, 9 Gray, 156;
Bishop v. .organ, 82 Illinois, 351; Shufeldt v. spaulding, 37
Wisconsin, 662, 668; Gave v. White, 20 Wisconsin, 425, 432;
Graves v. Fisher,5 Maine, 69; tHorne v. Smith, 159 U. S. 40;
.Niles v. Cedar Point Club, 175 U. S. 300.
Generally, these meandered lines are lines which course the
banks of navigable streams or other navigable waters. Hence,
it appears distinctly from the field notes and the plat that the
surveyor, Rice, stopped his surveys at this "marsh" as he called
it. These surveys were approved and a plat prepared, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellees.

189 U. S.

was based upon the surveys and field notes, and showed the
limits of the tracts which were for sale. The patents referring
in terms to the survey and plat, clearly disclose that the government was not intending to and did not convey any land
which was a part of the marsh.
By the plat in the case which is now before the court, the
meander line is fixed upon the shore of the lake, and the lake is
delineated and named on the plat.
The intention plainly expressed by the patent and plat is that
the meander line and shore of the lake coincide., and that the
lake itself is the boundary of the land conveyed.
In this manner the lake is made the boundary of the land
within the decisions in Horne v. Smith, and Niles v. Cedar
Point Club, because the plat shows that the lake is intended as
the boundary.
IV. Defendants contend that a patent of unsurveyed lands
conveys no title, and that, therefore, no title passed from the
United States to the lands in controversy, because it was not,
in fact, surveyed by Deputy Surveyor Henry S. Howe, and
cite to sustain this position the expression of the court in the
case of Horne v. Smith, 159 U. S.40.
That case does not hold, as claimed by defendants' counsel,
that land which is not surveyed cannot pass by patent. See
also fitchell v. Smale, 140 U. S.406 ; Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272.
V. The patents having included the lands in controversy
within the descriptions of the lands conveyed, the validity of
the patents cannot be questioned in this suit.
1st. If there was mistake or fraud in the issue of the patents,
it can be corrected only by a suit brought by the United States,
which shall set forth the facts which constitute the basis or
ground for such correction.
The survey of the public lands is vested in the Land Department, and it is within the jurisdiction of that department to
determine when the lands have been properly surveyed, so that
a patent may be issued for them.
The action of the Land Department upon this subject is judicial, and is "unassailable, except by a direct proceeding for its

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

correction or annulment."

Smelting Co. v. -Kent, 104 U. S.

636, 640; United States v. _Minor, 114 U. S. 233, 241, 243;
3fofat v. United States, 112 U. S. 24, 30; United States v.
Schurz, 102 U. S.378, 396; United States v. Stone, 2 Wall.
525, 535; Erhardt v. HRogaboom, 115 U. S. 67; Johnson v.
Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 83; Noble v. Union River Logging R.
R., 147 U. S. 165, 175; Bishop of _Nesgually v. Gibbon, 158 U.
S. 155, 166, 167.
To assail these patents on the ground of fraud, or to correct
them in respect to the lands in controversy, the suit would
have to be instituted by the United States, since the controversy
would be between it and the complainants, no other parties
having obtained any claim to the lands from the United States.
United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273.
The complainants cannot bring suit against the United States
in this court, or elsewhere, to establish the complainants' title
to the lands.
They must rest upon the patents for their title until the
United States sees fit to attack the patents. United States v.
Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 404.
The United States has not appeared in this suit, and the
court had no jurisdiction to bring it into the case, and no decree
which may be made will be of any effect against the United
States.
The attack upon the validity of the patents by the defence
in this suit is a collateral attack, and is not available to the defence.
2d. In the suit instituted by the United States, to avoid or
correct the patent on the ground of the alleged false character
of the field notes and plat, the complainants would have the
right to set up as their defence an estoppel against the United
States.
The authorities above cited establish that the defence of estoppel would be available in such suit to the complainants.
3d. The complainants would also be in position to defend
against the United States in such suit upon the ground of their
being bona fide purchasers of the lands, and in such suit
the United States would be required by its pleading to state

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Argument for Appellees.

189 U. S.

clearly the facts upon which the charge of fraud or mistake
was based, and the burden would be upon it to sustain the
charge by clear and convincing proofs, even though to do so
would require the proof of the negative. A preponderance of
the evidence merely would not sustain it. iXiaxwell Land Grant
Case, 121 U. S. 325, 379, 381; Colorado Coal Co. v. United
States, 123 U. S. 307, 313, 314; United States v. Burlington &c.
R. 1?. Co., 98 U. S. 334, 342; United States v. California &c.
Land Co., 148 U. S. 31, 40; United States v. Winona &c. R. 1R.
Co., 165 U. S. 463, 478; 67 Fed. Rep. 948, 960.
VI. The court has jurisdiction to enjoin the acts of the defendants in making a survey of the lands.
1st. The survey is made under such a contract that the lands
in controversy may be treated as government lands, open for
homestead or other claims, or for purchase, under the laws governing the disposition of the government lands.
These proceedings of survey, field notes, and plat, will constitute a cloud upon the complainants' title to the land.
Under the general equity powers of the Federal courts, they
have jurisdiction to quiet title to lands in favor of the party
in possession, having the title, against a party not in possession, who sets up a claim to the land which constitutes a cloud
upon the possessors' title. Peirsoll v. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95; -HoIConihay v. Wright, 121 U. S. 201; Frost v. Svitley, 121 U. S.
552; United States v. Wilson, 118 U. S. 86.
The reason why the general jurisdiction of courts of equity
is limited to cases in which the complainants are in possession
of the lands is, that, if not in possession they have an adequate
remedy at law by ejectment; the further reason applicable to
the Federal courts is that the right to trial by jury is preserved
in those courts in all cases in which the conditions are such that
the matter in controversy may be tried in a suit at law by a
jury.
In those States where, by statute, a right is given to a party
to maintain a suit in equity to quiet title to land owned by him,
which is vacant or unoccupied, that right may be enforced in
the Federal courts. The right is held to be the creation, by
statute, of an equitable right, which right, by reason of the de-

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

fendant not being in possession, cannot be tried in an action at
law; there is therefore no infringement in such case of the right
to trial by jury. Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195; Holland v. C6allen, 110 U. S. 15, 20-25; Reynolds v. CrawfordsvilleBank, 112
U. S. 405, 410, 411; United States v. Wilson, 118 U. S. 86;
Rich v. Braxton, 158 U. S. 375, 405; Dick v. Foraker,155 U. S.
404, 414, 415; Greeley v. _owe, 155 U. S. 58, 75; Cowley v.
Nforthern Pao. R. R. Co., 159 U. S. 569, 582, 583; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 517.
The statutes of the State of Minnesota provide as follows:
"SEc. 2. Action to Determine Adverse Clailms. An action
may be brought by any person in possession, by himself or
his tenant, of real property, against any person who claims
an estate or interest therein, or lien upon the same, adverse to
him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate,
lien, or interest; and any person having or claiming title to
vacant or unoccupied real estate may bring an action against
any person claiming an estate or interest therein adverse to
him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, and
of the rights of the parties, respectively." Stat. Minnesota,
1878, c. 75, ยง 2, p. 814. This statute of Minnesota is substantially the same as the statute of Indiana, referred to in the
case of Reynolds v. Crawfordsville Bank. Under this statute,
the Circuit Court in which this suit was brought, sitting in
Minnesota has jurisdiction to remove the cloud from the complainants' title to the lands in controversy, which lands, in respect to the parties to this suit, are vacant and unoccupied.
2d. Where courts in equity have jurisdiction to remove a
cloud from title to lands, they have jurisdiction to prevent,
by injunction, the proceedings for the creation of a cloud,
and suit in any such case is in the character of a bill quia
timet. 1 IHigh on Injunctions, sec. 372 (2d ed.); 3 Pomeroy
Eq. J. secs. 1345 and 1398, note; 1 Story Eq. J. sec. 700;
Petit v. Shtephard, 5 Paige, 493, 501, 502; Oakley v. The. Trustees of Williamsburgh, 6 Paige, 262; O'Hare v. Downing, 130
Massachusetts, 16; Peirsoll v. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95; Sharon v.
Tucker, 144 U. S. 533, 547; Briggs v. French, 1 Sumn. 504;
Union, Pac. R. Co. v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516, 526, 527.
VOL. CLXXXIX-4

OCTOBER TERMT,

1902.

Argument for Appellees.

189 U. S.

The right to maintain suit and prevent the creation of a
cloud upon the title in case of vacant or unoccupied lands is
clearly within the intent and purpose of the statute of Minnesota, and would be enforced in the courts of that State.
But the jurisdiction of the courts, either State or Federal,
does not depend in such case upon the state statute. Remedy to prevent the wrong or injury threatened or intended
by the proceedings to create a cloud upon the title exists in
equity, because the only effective remedy is by injunction to
stay the proceedings.
The right to trial by .jury is not invaded, since there is no
opportunity at law to try the controversy.
3d. In order that the complainants be remitted to their remedy at law, it must appear that such remedy is plain and adequate in the sense that it is "as practical and efficient to the
ends of justice, and its prompt administration as the remedy in
equity," and the circumstances of the case must determine
whether there is such remedy at law. Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Pet.
210, 215; Watson v. Sat]herland,5 Wall. 74, 78; Payne v. Ilooke,
7 Wall. 425, 430 ; UnIted States v. Union, Pac. 1?. R. Co., 160
U. S. 1, 51; Oelrichs v. Spain, 15 Wall. 211, 228; 3Th Conihay
v. Mlight, 121 U. S. 201, 2-05, 206; Holland v. Challen, 110
U. S. 15, 24.
If the proceedings sought to be enjoined in this case are allowed to be completed the inevitable result will be various claims
made for the lands as government lands. The very object of
the survey is to open lands to such claimants, and in order that
the complainantsdefend and maintain their title a multiplicity
of suits will be the result.
No action at law is adequate to the complainants' protection.
Under these conditions the court will enjoin the acts of the
defendants to prevent a multiplicity of suits. Pomeroy, Eq. J.
sees. 243, 24:5, 261, 268; Livingston v. Livingston, 6 Johns. Chy.
497; )eForest v. Thomnpson, 40 Fed. Rep. 375 (opinion by
Judge Jackson, M r. Justice Iarlan concurring); Osborne v.
Wisconsin, Cent. 1. Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 824 (opinion by Mr. Justice Harlan); Crews v. Bnroham, I Black, 352, 358; Louisville
&o. R. Co. v, Ohio &co. Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 42; .New York &o.

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

R. Co. v. Schuyler, 17 N. Y. 592; Supervisors v. Deyoe, 77 N.
Y. 2[9.
4th. To make the intended survey of the lands it would be
necessary to cut down a considerable quantity of the pine timber standing upon the lands, and by the cutting of such timber,
the remainder of the valuable pine timber would be exposed to
destruction by fire. An irreparable injury is threatened.
It is an undisputed fact that'the chief value of the lands in
controversy consists in the pine timber standing upon them.
It is a fact of common knowledge that the felling of timber
in the pine forests in the northern States is a source of special
and great danger to the remaining pine timber standing upon
the lands. Fires are easily kindled, and there is constant likelihood of their being kindled, in the dry tops and refuse of the
fallen trees; having gained force from the quantity of refuse
the fires spread rapidly and for long distances. The standing
timber is not destroyed by being burned up, but the heat about
the roots of the trees kills the trees and destroys their value.
The cutting of the timber by the defendants will not be confined to one place, but will be along the different lines running
through the forests upon which the survey is made. In this
manner an exposure to the danger of fire will be made to large
portions of the lands.
The court has jurisdiction, by injunction, to prevent the cutting of timber and the threatened danger of its destruction.
Wilson v. City of Mineral Point,39 Wisconsin, 160 ; Butman v.
James,34 Minnesota, 547; Smith v. Boe, 59 Vermont, 232; fest
Point iron Co. v. .eymert, 45 N. Y. 703; Camp
l ) v. Dixon,
Mitchell & Co., 112 Georgia, 872; Erhardt v. Boaro, 113 U. S.
537; -]NorthPao. P. P. Co. v. .Hussy, 61 Fed. Rep. 231; Oolagah
Coal Co. v. fMoCaleb, 68 Fed. Rep. 86; Buskirk v. King, 72 Fed.
Rep. 22; Dimik v. Shaw, 94 Fed. Rep. 266.
5th. The fact that the defendants are acting under the direction of the Land Department does not deprive the court of jurisdiction to restrain acts done by them which are injurious to the
complainants, and which are unlawful acts.
The title of the United States to the lands in controversy
having been conveyed by the patents under which the complain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

ants obtained that title, the Land Department has no authority,
either upon the ground of fraud, or mistake in the survey of
the lands, to interfere with the complainants' title, or ownership or possession of the lands.
The defendants have no more right to enter upon the lands
to resurvey them than they have to enter upon and resurvey
any lands owned by private parties.
Before any entry can be made upon the lands by them, under a claim that they are government lands, the patents must
be set aside, or declared void by the court in a suit instituted
for that purpose on the part of the United States.
This position is clearly maintained by the decisions of this
court. -Moore v. -Robbins,96 U. S.530; C&agin v. Powell, 128
U. S. 691, 699, 700; United States v. &churz,102 U. S.378, 401,
402; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447; Viddicombe v. Childers, 124 U. S. 400; JHardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 401;
11roble v. Union River Logging Rail'oad,147 U. S. 165, 175;
Xichigan and & -LurnlerCo. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589; .fcCormick; Xlachine Co. v. Aultman, 169 U. S. 606; United States v.
San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273, 282 ; United States v. Winona c St. _Peters B. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 948, 959 (Court of Appeals).
The defendants, in attempting to survey the lands, are acting
without right and without lawful authority from any source.
CHIEF JUSTI E FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
AIR.

The bill prayed for injunction and the establishment of the
boundaries of complainants' lands. The decree granted a perpetual injunction, and, describing the fractional lots, adjudged
that they "extend to and are bounded by and upon the actual
waters of Cedar Island Lake." The deflection of the lines
required by the decree is indicated on the diagram.
Sections 2395, 2396 and 2397 of the Revised Statutes specify
the manner of making surveys of public lands, and prescribe
the rules by which the form and boundaries of the tracts are
determined. In this case no survey was in fact made, no
meander line was in fact run, and no body of water in fact

KIRWAN v. MURPHY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

existed near the false meander line indicated. The line purporting to delimit the lake was from one mile to a quarter of a
mile from the lake, and ran over high agricultural land, covered
with ancient trees, which could not have grown in water. The
theory of the decree is that the government is estopped by the
pretended survey and plat to deny that these lots were bounded
by the lake.
The Land Department must necessarily consider and determine what are public lands, what lands have been surveyed,
what are to be surveyed, what have been disposed of, what remain to be disposed of, and what are reserved. The department has held that the land lying between the alleged meander
line and the lake, some 1200 acres, is government land, and has
ordered it to be surveyed. In re BUtns, 20 L. Dec. 28, 295;
23 L. Dec. 430. The execution of that order was restrained by
the preliminary injunction herein, and that has been made
perpetual by the decree.
We are confronted on the threshold with two objections to
the maintenance of this bill, namely, the want of jurisdiction
in equity, and the want of jurisdiction thus to interfere with
executive administration.
Equity jurisdiction was invoked on the ground of lack of
adequate remedy at law in that irreparable injury in the destruction of timber and exposure to fire by the survey, and
multiplicity of suits were threatened.
In our opinion complainants failed to make out a case of
liability to irreparable injury. The township was resurveyed
by a county surveyor in 1893; defendant Croswell has made
surveys in the township, locating the actual meanders of the
lake; and he testified that this survey could be made by him
"without any material injury to the soil or timber;" and that
he would not "have to cut very much valuable timber." If complainants as owners of the 859.38 acres contained in their fractional lots became through that ownership owners of the 1202
acres lying between those lots and the lake, the proposed
survey would be but a fugitive and temporary trespass, lacking
the elements of irreparable mischief, and of such long continuance as to become a nuisance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Ard bills of peace will not lie where the legal remedy is
otherwise adequate, and where the persons directly interested
are not made parties, are not numerous, and assert separate and
independent rights. Hale v. Alinson, 188 U. S. 56; Cruickshank v. Bidwell, 176 U. S. 73.
But, in the next place, was the Circuit Court justified in thus
arresting the action of the Land Department in proceeding with
a survey under the circumstances ? In other words, can the
Land Department be stayed in the discharge of a duty, not
ministerial, but involving the exercise of judgment and discretion, on the ground that its jurisdiction has been lost by estoppel? We do not think so, and hold that complainants' contention that they are entitled to bound upon the lake involves a
legal right, which cannot be properly passed on until after the
department has acted.
Having participated in the proceedings before the department, complainants, after survey was ordered, obtained this injunction against further administrative action, on the ground
of absolute want of power, and not of error in its exercise.
The administration of the public lands is vested in the Land
Department, and its power in that regard cannot be divested
by the fraudulent action of a subordinate officer, outside of his
Titeside v. United
authority, and in violation of the statute.
States, 93 U. S. 247; .fofat v. U ited States, 112 U. S. 241;
Hlume v. United States, 132 U. S. 406, 414. The courts can
neither correct nor make surveys. The power to do so is reposed in the political department of the government, and the
Land Department, charged with the duty of surveying the publie domain, must primarily determine what are public lands
subject to survey and disposal under the public land laws.
Possessed of the power, in general, its exercise of jurisdiction
cannot be questioned by the courts before it has taken final action. Brown v. flith cock, 173 U. S. 473.
In Litc/feld v. The Register and Receiver, 9 Wall. 575,
Litcflield sought an injunction to restrain the register and receiver of the United States land office at Fort Dodge, Iowa,
from entertaining and acting upon applications made to them
to prove preemptions to certain lands which lay within the

MIRWAN v. YMITRPHYt.
189 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

land district for which they were respectively register and receiver. The bill averred that complainant was the legal owner
of the lands; that they were not public lands, and were in no
manner subject to sale or preemption by the government or its
officers. The bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction in
equity, and this court affirmed the decree. Mr. Justice Miller
said: "The principle has been so repeatedly decided in this
court, that the judiciary cannot interfere either by mandanus
or injunction with executive officers such as the respondents
here, .in the discharge of their official duties, unless those duties
are of a character purely ministerial, and involving no exercise
of judgment or discretion, that it would seem to be useless to
repeat it here." Gaines v. Thorwson, 7 Wall. 341; The Secretary v. XleGarrahan, 9 Wall. 298.
It was held that the fact that complainant asserted himself
to be the owner of the tract of land, which the officers were
treating as public lands, did not take the case out of that rule,
where it was the duty of these officers t6 determine, upon all
the facts before them, whether the land was open to pre6mption or sale; and further, that if the court could entertain
jurisdiction, the persons asserting the right of preemption
would be necessary parties to the suit.
Mr. Justice Miller further said: "After the land officers
shall have disposed of the question, if any legal right of plaintiff has been invaded, he may seek redress in the courts. He
insists that he now has the legal title. If the Land Department finally decides in his favor, he is not injured. If they
give patents to the applicants for preemption, the courts can
then in the appropriate proceeding determine who has the better title or right."
And: "It appears on its face, that the register and receiver
have no real interest in the matter, but that persons not named
are asserting before them the legal right to preempt these
lands. These persons are the real parties whose interests are
to be affected, and whose claim of right is adverse to plaintiff.
If the court should hear the case, and enjoin perpetually the
register and receiver from entertaining their applications, they
have no further remedy. That is the initial point of establish-

OCTOBER TERMA,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

ing their right, and in this mode a valuable and recognized
right may be wholly defeated and destroyed, without the possibility of a hearing on the part of the party interested. This
is not a case in which the land officers represent these claimants.
They have no such duty to perform."
The case has been frequently cited, and in, among others,
Carrick v. Lamar, 116 U. S. 423, an application to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia for a mandamus to the
Secretary of the Interior to order the survey of an island in the
Mississippi River, opposite the city of St. Louis, by an alleged
settler thereon, who averred that he had applied to the department for a survey of the island, so that it might be brought
into the market, and that on the hearing of the application the
city contended that the island had been surveyed and set apart
to it, under certain acts of Congress, which he denied, because,
as he insisted, the island surveyed was then located above this
island. The court refused to grant the writ, and its judgment
was affirmed, this court holding that the question how far the
title of the city to the island was affected by its being carried
down river by the action of the current, required consideration and judgment on the part of the Secretary.
HToble v. Union River -Logging Company, 147 U. S.165, is
not to the contrary, for that was a case where the executive
department had confessedly finally acted, and then attempted
to resume jurisdiction, and an injunction was sustained. But
the government raised no point as to the form of the remedy;
deprivation of a vested legal right of property, acquired before
any suggestion that it could be taken away, was threatened;
and it appeared that the only remedy was through equity interposition. Cruickshank v. Bidwell, 176 U. S.73, 80. In this
case, whether the lands lying between the alleged meander line
and the lake were public lands, or not, was for the Land
Department to determine in the first instance, and if error was
committed, this is not the way to correct it.
In our judgment the Circuit Court should not have taken
jurisdiction, and therefore the
.Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed; the
decree of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and the cause
remanded to that court with a direction to dismiss the bill.

