NASHUA SAVINGS BANK v. ANGLO-AMERICAN CO. 221
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

might "invoke the judgment of the Federal courts as to whether
the contract rights created by the charter, and of which it is thus
the beneficial owner, are violated by subsequent acts of the
State in limitation of the right to collect tolls." In that case
the bondholders were not only the beneficial owners of the property, but a reduction of the tolls might have resulted in the
practical destruction of their securities, and unless the bill were
maintained they were practically remediless. The case has but
a remote analogy to the one under consideration.
As the appellant has shown no legal interest in this litigation,
and no lack of a complete and adequate remedy at law, it results that the bill was properly dismissed, and the decree of the
court below is therefore
Affi.med.

NASHUA SAVINGS BANK v. ANGLO-AMERICAN
LAND, MORTGAGE AND AGENCY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUlT.

No. 167. Submitted January 29, 1903.-Decided March 16, 1903.
1. The expression in section, 721 Rev. Stat. (the "laws of the several States ")
in regard to the authentication of foreign statutes applies not only to
statutes of the States but to the decisions of their highest courts.
The Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in New Hampshire, may receive as evidence, when attached to the deposition of the manager of a
corporation, who is an attorney and solicitor of the Supreme Court of
Judicature in England of thirty years' standing, intimately acquainted
with the English Corporation Laws, what purport to be the copier of the
laws under which such corporation was organized, and which he testifies
were issued by authority, being printed by Her Majesty's printer, and
as such are by law receivable in evidence without further proof, in the
domestic courts of Great Britain.
2. By subscribing to the stock in a foreign corporation, the subscriber subjects itself to the laws of such foreign country in respect to the powers
and obligations of such corporation, and if the statute under which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Petitioner.

189 U. S.

corporation is organized and the by-laws of the corporation provide that
the directors may from time to time make such calls as they think fit
upon members for all moneys unpaid on shares of stock, it is not necessary for the declaration to contain averments either as to the conditions
upon which the corporation can make assessments or that the assessments sued for were necessary.
There is a presumption of good faith attaching to foreign as well as to domestic corporations.
Variances between the allegation and proof must be taken when the evidence is offered, and if such evidence be sufficient to support the verdict
the defect in the declaration is cured.
Where the bill of exceptions contains nothing to indicate that the call for
assessments was not properly made and does not show that it contains
all the evidence, this court is at liberty, if the circumstances of the case
require it, to infer that there was other evidence to support the verdict.
The sufficiency of evidence cannot be reviewed on writ of error.
3. Where it appears by the articles of association that the remedy by forfeiture and sale for non-payment of assessments is cumulative, such
remedy is not a bar to an action at law for the debt, and such sale or
forfeiture is not a condition precedent to the right to recover the
assessments.
4. Where the statute under which a corporation is organized provides that
moneys payable in pursuance of the articles of the company shall be
deemed a debt due by such member, it is not necessary to prove an express promise to pay an assessment.

THIs was an action by the defendant in error, a British corporation, in the Circuit Court for the District of New Hampshire, against the Nashua Savings Bank, a New Hampshire corporation, to recover an assessment made by such corporation
in pursuance of its charter and by-laws, upon defendant's subscription to a thousand shares of its stock.
The case was tried before the Circuit Judge and a jury, and
resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff by direction of the court,
and a judgment against the bank in the sum of $7131.10, which
was affirmed on writ of error by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
108 Fed. Rep. 764.
-Mr. J. S. H. Fpink and .Mr. A. T. Batc elder for petitioner.
It is elementary law that the statutes of Great Britain are
facts, of which this court does not take cognizance without proof.
Live:pool G. IF. Steam Co. v. Insurance Co., 129 U. S. 445.
The ordinary modes of proof are: (1) By exemplification un-

NASHUA SAVINGS BANK v. ANGLO-AMIERICAN CO. 223
189 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

der great seal. (2) By certificate of an officer having authority
to make it. (3) By testimony from comparison with original
enrollment. Church v. RIubbar't, 2 Cranch, 187, 238; Emery
v. Berry, 28 N. II. 485, in which the distihction between proof
of written and unwritten foreign law is recognized. The Circuit Court recognized the modes of proof, as above suggested,
as the appropriate ones, but held that the strict rule had been
relaxed in New Hampshire in Hall v. Costello, 48 N. H. 176.
In the Sussex Peerage Case, 11 Clark & F. 35, it was held
that the witness might refresh his memory by reference to the
written law, but the proof of the law is to be from the witness,
not the book.
The witness's testimony has not added a word to the copies
of the statute. If it is enough to present a portion of the enactment of a foreign country, purporting to be printed by authority, without any verification, then these statutes have been
proven, otherwise not. Beach v. W7orkman, 20 N. H. 379, 383.
The general rule as to the proof of foreign laws is that the
law which is written, that is, statute law, must be proved by a
copy properly authenticated, and that the unwritten law must
be proved by the testimony of experts, that is, by those acquainted with the law. Ennis v. Smith, 14 How. 400; Pierce
v. hndseth, 106 U. S. 546, 551.
It would seem, in the case last cited, the state statute permitted proof very similar to that attempted by plaintiff, but it

would have been inadmissible but for such statute; we repeat,
no law of New Hampshire justifies it.
Courts of one country cannot take cognizance of the laws of
another without plea or proof. Bank of iorth America v.
Rindge, 154 Massachusetts, 203; Hancock NVat. Bank v. Ellis,
166 Massachusetts, 414.
In the absence of any proof that this call was made for the
payment of debts or other obligations of the plaintiff corporation, or that the suit was instituted or carried on for the benefit of creditors, there can be no recovery in the absence of an
express promise to pay. Ujpton v. 'ribilcock, 91 'U. S. 45;
Webster v. Upton, 91 UT. S. 65; Chubb v. Urpton, 95 U. S. 665,
cited and distinguished,

OCTOBER TIRMI, 1902.
Argument for Respondent.

189 U. S.

Petitioner's contention is:
(1.) That plaintiff offered no evidence as to what the law of
Great Britain is to collect calls or assessments, in the absence
of an express promise to pay, and without evidence of the necessity of such calls or assessments to pay debts, when the articles of association provide for a forfeiture of stock. (2.) There
being no evidence as to the law of Great Britain, the court
must assume that the law of Great Britain in this behalf is the
same as that of New Hampshire. (3.) The law of New Hampshire declares that no such action can be maintained. Keiley v.
.Kelley, 161 Massachusetts, 111; Whidden v.-Seelye, 4 Maine, 24-7
Whether an action of assumpsit or debt would lie in Great
Britain to enforce this assessment or call, or whether there
must be proof of its necessity, or whether remedy must be had
by forfeiture and sale in the first instance, or exclusively, the
plaintiff has offered no evidence; Great Britain being an alien
country, the burden was on plaintiff to prove its laws. Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phwinix 1ns. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 445; Pierce
v. ndseti, 106 U. S. 546, 551.
The law of New Hampshire in this behalf is well settled, that
when an act of incorporation gives no express remedy against
a member for assessments, he is liable to no action for them by
virtue of his membership. .F.anklinGlass Co. v. Alexander, 2
N. I. 381 ; Anglo Am. v. Dyer, 641 N. E. Rep. 46 ; Railroadv.
Johnson, 30 N. H. 390; Company v. Burlingame,67 N. .301;
Shattuck v. Robbins, 68 N. H. 565.
No reason appears why this court should not follow the law
as administered in New Hampshire, and there are potent reasons why it should. Bqwgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 34;
.Mandel v. Swan Land & Cattle Co., 154 Illinois, 177; 1R. R.
Co. v. Bank, 102 U. S. 14, 58.
X,P. Orear Powell, .L'r. Gilbert A. ]Davis and -r. Daniel A.

cacly for respondent.
Foreign statutory laws may be proved: (1) by a duly certified copy; (2) by a sworn, compared, written copy; or (3) by a
printed copy produced by a licensed practicing attorney of the
foreign country authenticated by his oath as having been offi-

NASHUA SAVINGS- BANK v. ANGLO-AMERICAN CO. 225
189 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

cially printed and receivable in evidence in that country without further proof. Metoreil v. HZolbrook, 12 Peters, 84--89;
Conn. illut. Life Ins. Co v. Union Tpust Co., 112 U. S. 250255. In New Hampshire the rule is still more liberal than that
followed in this case. Hall v. Costello, 48 N. H. 176 ; Ilennard
v. Kennard, 63 N. H. 303; State v. Davis, 69 N. H. 350;
Pawashick,2 LowBarrows v. Downs & Co., 9 R. I. 446; The-Lacon
v. Higgins, 3
ell, 142; Jones v. -Maet, 5 5. & R. 523;
Stark. 178; Alerrifield v. Robbins, 8 Gray, 150.
There is no reason for a more strict rule. Authentication
is a question for the court. Church v. Hubbard, 2 Oranch,
238; Ininis v. Smith, 14 How. 426; Pacific Gas Co. v. Wheelock, 80 N. Y. 278 ; Dundee Mlortgage, Trust & Investment Co.
v. Cooper, 26 Fed. Rep. 665.
Section 140 provides that if a non-resident stockholder shall
"neglect to give his address" the office of the company shall
be deemed his address. This is a very reasonable requirement.
No wrong is done. Even if this paragraph was invalid, the
petitioner had due notice and actual knowledge of the call. By
becoming a stockholder, the petitioner subjected himself to the
laws of England governing the respondent company and all
reasonable rules of the company. Canada Southern R. R.
Co. v. Gebhard, 109 U. S.527; Hudson River Pu p and Paper
Co. v. H. H.. Warner, 99 Fed. IRep. 187; _Mandel v. Swan
Land & Cattle Co., 154 Illinois, 177.
A sale or forfeiture of the petitioner's shares was not a condition precedent to the respondent's right to recover calls.
In the absence of fraud, a stockholder cannot question the
wisdom or necessity of a call. Oglesby v. Attrill, 105 U. S.
605-610.
A stockholder cannot question the necessity or advisability
of a call. Cook on Stockholders, §§ 111, 113. A call made by
directors is conclusive evidence of its necessity, and binds the
stockholder without notice. Great TFestern Telegraph Co. v.
Purdy, 162 U. S.339; Bailey v. Birkenhead, 12 Beav. 443;
Anglo American &c. Co. v. Dyer, 64 N. E. Rep. 416 ; 2 Thomp.
Corp. § 1710.
Whether the court erred in directing a verdict requires a
VOL. CLXXXIX-15

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Argument for Respondent.

189 U. S.

consideration of the evidence as a whole. This question is not
before the court as all of the evidence was not included in the
bill of exceptions nor does it purport to contain all of the evidence. Texas & Pacifc R. R. v. Coxe, 145 U. S. 593-606;
Hansen v. Boyd, 161 U. S. 397; City of Providence v. Babcock, 70 U. S. 240-244; U. S. Jfutual Accident Assn. v. Robinson, 74 Fed. Rep. 10.
Every presumption is in favor of the correctness of the decision of the trial court. United States v. Patrick, 73 Fed. Rep.
800-806.
The accepting and holding of the shares by the petitioner
upon these conditions created an implied if not an express
promise to pay the balance when called. Tucker v. Haughton,
63 Massachusetts, 350; Buffalo &c. ly. Co. v. Dudley, 14 N.
Y. 351; HowartA v. Lombard, 175 Massachusetts, 574; TWebster v. Upton, 91 U. S. 67; Ujton, v. T'ribilcock, 91 U. S. 4548; Palmer v. Lawrence, 3 Sandf. (N. Y.) 9.
A corporation organized under a foreign government stands
in this respect upon the same footing as corporations of other
States. Bank v. Earle,13 Peters, 589; T]ie British American
Land Co. v. Ames, 6 Met. 391; Story, Conflict of Laws, §§ 565; 2 Morawetz Corp. §§ 960-961; 6 Thompson on Corporations, § 7883.
Petitioner's share certificate expressly bound him to an English contract. .lillilen v. Pratt,125 Massachusetts, 374.
The acts of this company in the management of its internal
affairs must have that presumption of validity that will be accorded to the acts of individuals, or to state it more correctly
the burden was upon petitioner to show irregularity or invalidity. Can. So. By. v. Geb]ard, 109 U. S. 527.
The verdict is the conclusion of the court based upon the
facts in evidence and as stated in another part of this brief, it
can only be reviewed by consideration of all the evidence.
If it be claimed that there is a variance between the declaration and the proofs we answer: (1) that can only be decided by
an examination of all the evidence which is not before the
court ;- and (2) that to save the right of objection upon the
ground of variance the party must object to the admission of

NASHUA SAVINGS BANK v. ANGLO-AMERICAN CO. 227
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the evidence when it is offered and if he does not do so it is
waived. Roberts v. Graham, 6 Wall. 578; Boston & Albany
12. P. Co. v. O'Reilly, 158 U. S. 334; Graves v. State, 121 Indiana, 359; Dunstan v. R. R..Killand,3 Hughes, 641; S. C.,
Fed. Gas. 4181.
If the objection be not taken when the evidence is offered,
the court may instruct the jury upon the whole field of inquiry
covered by the evidence. Boyce v. California Stage Co., 25
California, 460; Rev. Stat. § 954.
As the common law rules of pleadings prevail in New Hampshire it is submitted that the debitatus assumysit is the proper
form of action. 1 Chitty on Pleadings (13th Amer. ed.), * 340,
* 341, * 401, * 106; 2 Chitty Pleadings, - 52; .Davis, Treasurer,
v. Williams, Administrator,3 East, 232; Pullman v. Upton, 96
U. S. 328; .andell v. Swan and Co., 154 Illinois, 177; 1
Chitty on Pleadings, 197, * 198; Dermott v. Jones, 2 Wall. 1-9.
MR. JUSTIcE BRowN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The assessment in question had been made by the directors
of the company, in pursuance of their amended articles of association, which declared that "the directors may, from time
to time, make such calls as they think fit upon the members in
respect of all moneys unpaid on their shares, and each member
shall pay the amount of every call so made upon him to the
persons, and at the times and places appointed by the directors."
1. In order to prove the incorporation of the plaintiff company, as well as the liability and rights of the stockholders, the
deposition of an attorney and solicitor of the Supreme Court
of Judicature in England, who was also managing director of
the plaintiff company, was read in evidence. His testimony
showed that the plaintiff was a corporation organized with
limited liability under five different acts of Parliament, from
1862 to 1880, copies of which he produced and delivered to the
commissioner, stating that these copies were "issued by authority, being printed by Her Majesty's printer, and are as such
by law receivable in evidence without further proof." To the

OCTOBER TERTM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

admission of the statutes the defendant excepted upon the
ground that they were not proved according to the established
rules of law.
As these statutes were the basis of the plaintiff's corporate
existence, and its right to bring this action, they must undoubtedly be proved as facts. Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix
Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 445. While it was stated by this court
in the early case of GMurch v. ilubbart,2 Cranch, 187, 238, that
foreign judgments are usually and most properly authenticated
either by an exemplification under the great seal, by a copy
proved to be a true copy, or by the certificate of an officer authorized by law, which certificate must itself be properly authenticated, the Circuit Court of the United States sitting in
New Hampshire may, under Rev. Stat. see. 721, declaring that
"the laws of the several States," with certain exceptions, "shall
be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in the
courts of the United States," receive such evidence of the authentication of foreign statutes as the practice of the courts in
that State may authorize and justify. Jf-oYiel v. lfolbrooh, 12
Pet. 84, 89 ; Conn. Life Ins. Co. v. Union Trust Co., 112 U. S.
250, 255 ; Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black, 427. The "laws of the
several States" with respect to evidence within the meaning
of this section apply not only to the statutes but to the decisions of their highest courts. Bucher v. Cheshvire Railroad Co.,
125 U. S. 555, 582 ; Exparte _Fisk, 113 U. S. 713, 720; Ryan
v. Bindley, 1 Wall. 66.
The law of New Hampshire upon this subject appears to
have been settled in Hall v. Costello, 48 N. H. 176, in which an
attorney, resident in New Hampshire, who had gone to Canada
to investigate Canadian law, was permitted to state orally what
he found the law to be, as embodied in the Queen's proclamation of neutrality. To same effect are Barrows v. Downs, 9
R. I. 446 ; Jones v. 3fafet, 5 S. & R. 523. There is an even
greater reason for permitting a local attorney, of thirty years'
experience, who, as he states, was intimately acquainted with
the English company or corporation laws, to produce as evidence of such laws copies of the statutes printed by authority

NASHUA SAVINGS BANK v. ANGLO-AMERICAN CO. 229
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the English government, and used as proofs of statutes in
the English courts.
It would appear that such authentication of foreign laws
would be deemed sufficient in the English courts, as in Lacon
v. Higging,3 Starkie, 178, it was held that the French code was
sufficiently proved by a witness-a French vice consul-who
produced a book printed by authority of the French government, which the witness stated contained the French code, upon
which he acted in his office as vice consul. In most, if not all,
of the States of this Union statutes have been passed permitting laws of sister States to be proved simply by the production of a book containing what purports to be an authorized
edition of such laws printed by state authority. Enery v.
Berry, 28 N. H. 473. While the same liberality is not extended to foreign laws required to be proved as facts, it would
seem like sticking in the bark to hold that a foreign expert
might testify orally as to what such laws were, and not be
able to produce what purports to be the official edition of
such laws, and to testify as to the authenticity of such edition, and to the fact that it was received as evidence in the
domestic courts of that country. To the average mind it
would seem as though there was much less liability to mistake in a printed copy of a statute from the official printer,
than in a copy written and compared by an ordinary scrivener.
The evidence was properly received.
2. Exception was also taken to the declaration, in that it
contained no averment or allegation upon what conditions the
plaintiff was authorized to make assessments. In this connection it is insisted that the declaration should have averred that
such an assessment was necessary to pay the debts of the plaintiff, or was made for the benefit of its creditors; that it is also
defective in that it contains no averment of notice of such assessment to defendant; or that defendant ever made an express promise to pay such assessment; and no direct allegation
that defendant was a stockholder at the time the assessment
was made. It appears, however, by the act of 25 and 26 Vic.
chap. 89, "for the incorporation, regulation, and winding up
of trading companies and other associations," that the articles

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

of association, "when registered, shall bind the company and
the members thereof to the same extent as if each member
had subscribed his name and affixed his seal thereto, and there
were in such articles contained a covenant on the part of himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, to conform to all
the regulations contained in such articles, subject to the provisions of this act; and all moneys payable by any member to
the company, in pursuance of the conditions and regulations
of the company, or any of such conditions or regulations, shall
be deemed to be a debt due from such member to the company,
and in England and Ireland to be in the nature of a specialty
debt." It also appeared by the articles of association of the
plaintiff corporation, No. 3, "that every person who has accepted any share or shares in this company, and whose name
is entered in the registry of members, and no other person,
shall be deemed to be a member." These regulations also contained the provision heretofore mentioned, that the directors
might from time to time make such calls as they thinkfit upon
the members in respect of all moneys unpaid on their shares.
The board of directors is thus constituted a tribunal to determine when and to what amount assessments shall be made
upon the unpaid shares of stock. By subscribing to stock in
a foreign corporation, defendant subjected itself to the laws
of such foreign country iA respect to the powers and obligations of such corporation. Canada Southern BRy. Co. v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527; .-?eyfe v. Randle, 103 U. S. 222.
In the absence of fraud the necessity for an assessment upon
the capital stock cannot be made the subject of inquiry by the
courts. As was said by Mr. Tustice Field in Oglesby v. Attrill,
105 U. S. 605, 609: "As to the wisdom of an assessment, or
its necessity at the time, or the motives which prompt it, the
courts will not inquire, if it be within the legitimate authority
of the directors to levy it, and the objects for which the company was incorporated would justify the expenditure of the
money to be raised. They will not examine into the affairs
of a corporation to determine the expediency of its action, or
the motives for it, when the action itself is lawful." Bailey v.
Birkienhead&c. Railway Co., 12 Beav. 433 ; see also Cook on

NASHUA SAVINGS BANK v. ANGLO-ABIERICAN CO. 231
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Stockholders, see. 113 ; Great Western Telegrayk Co. v. Purdy,
162 U. S. 329. Whether such assessment could be impeached
by showing that the corporation was not a bona fide enterprise, or had never actually engaged in business, or become
a going concern, or that the assessment was made unnecessarily and in bad faith, or that a discrimination was made against
foreign stockholders, it is unnecessary to determine, since no
evidence to that effect was offered on behalf of the defendant. Certainly, under the cases above cited, it would be unnecessary in order to make a _rima facie case to negative
these facts. There is a presumption of good faith attaching
as well to foreign as to domestic corporations.
The trial proceeded under the third count of the declaration,
which was in indebitatus assumysit,and no objection was made
to the evidence offered upon the ground of variance. Under
such circumstances, and without expressing an opinion as to
the admissibility of the evidence offered, the declaration is
good after verdict. In Roberts v. Graham, 6 Wall. 578, we
held that variances between the allegation and proof must be
taken when the evidence is offered, and if such evidence be
sufficient to support the verdict the defect in the declaration
is cured. Patrick v. Graham,132 U. S. 627.
The court in charging the jury in this case instructed them
that there was no doubt the call for this assessment had been
properly proved; that the only possible question which could
have arisen was whether or not certain persons were directors
of the corporation at the time of the call, and that as the
amended articles of the association provided that calls might
be niade by the directors, there was no doubt that the call in
question was properly made.
As the bill of exceptions contains nothing to indicate that
the call was not properly made, and does not show that it contained all the evidence in the case, we should be at liberty, if
the circumstances of the case required it, to infer that there
was other evidence to supply any defect in respect to the legality of the call. Hansen v. Boyd, 161 U. S. 397; City v. Babcock, 3 Wall. 240 ; United States v. Patrick,73 Fed. Rep. 800.
The sufficieney of the evidence cannot be reviewed on writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

error. Generes v. Campbell, 11 Wall. 193, 199; Dower v. Riichap'ds, 151 U. S. 658.
It appears from the testimony of the secretary of the company that a notice of the call was posted up in a conspicuous
place in the register's office of the company for more than a
month before the call was payable, and in addition thereto a
printed notice of the call was also forwarded to the defendant
bank. This was a sufficient compliance with article 140 of the
articles of association, which provides that "if any member resident out of the United Kingdom neglect to give such address as
is herebefore required, notice from him may be posted up in a
conspicuous place in the register's office of the company, and
for all the purposes of these regulations the register's office of
the company shall be deemed to be the registered place of
abode of such member."
3. A sale or forfeiture of defendant's shares was not a condition precedent to the right to recover this assessment. While
a remedy by forfeiture is given by the articles of the association, this remedy is cumulative, and is no bar to an action at
law for the debt. This is clearly intended as a concurrent
remedy.
4. Nor do we think there was any necessity of proving an
express promise to pay this assessment. The English statute
above quoted provides that all moneys payable by any member in pursuance of the articles of the company shall be deemed
a debt due by such member of the company, and as this statute
implies a promise to pay f rom a subscription to the shares, it
clearly obviates the necessity of proving an express promise.
Upton v. Tribiloc, 91 U. S. 45, Webster v. Upton, 91 U. S.
65; O]kubb v. Upton, 95 U. S. 665; Jlowarth v. Lombard, 175
Massachusetts, 570, 574. Although the law of New Hampshire
seems to be that in the absence of an express promise no personal action will lie, Shattuck v. Robbins, 68 N. HI. 585, yet
even there an obligation created by the charter is treated as
the equivalent of an express promise. Cook on Stockholders,
sec. 71; Anglo-American Co. v. Dyer, 181 Massachusetts, 593.
There was no error in the action of the court below, and its
judgment is therefore

Aflir.ned.

