BRILL v. PECKHAM MOTOR TRUCK CO.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

BRILL v. PECKHAM MOTOR TRUCK AND WHEEL
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 181. Arguediarch 2, 3, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
Where in a patent case a preliminary injunction has been granted by a Circuit Court on the strength of a previous adjudication by the same court
over the same patent, the case involving questions of fact in respect of
anticipation and infringement, and not being ripe for final hearing, it is
error for the Circuit Court of Appeals on an appeal from the interlocutory order to direct a dismissal of the bill. Mast Foos Company v.
Stover Manufacturing Company, 177 U. S. 485, applied.

THis was a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York by John A.
Brill and The J. G. Brill Company against The Peckham Motor
Truck and Wheel Company and others, praying for injunction
and accounting for infringement of letters patent No. 478,218,
for an improvement in car trucks, issued July 5, 1892.
The J. G. Brill Company was a manufacturer of street cars
and trucks at Philadelphia, and The Peckham Motor Truck and
Wheel Company was a manufacturer of trucks at Kingston,
New York.
The bill was filed October 15, 1900, and a motion for preliminary injunction on behalf of complainants on claims one
and two of the patent in suit was heard by Judge Lacombe on
October 26, 1900, on affidavits previously served by complainants, including the record of an adjudication in the Circuit Court
in the case of Brill v. Thi'rd Avenue Railroad Comjpany, in
which the opinion of Judge Shipman was filed July 9, 1900.
103 Fed. Rep. 289.
Defendants filed affidavits at the hearing, which had been
sworn to October 25 and 26, and which complainants had apparently had no opportunity to inspect before the argument.
These affidavits set up two patents, (Manier of August 27, 1889,

OCTOBER TERAM. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 i. S.

No. 409,993, and Peckham, of January 21, 1890, No. 419,876),
which had also been before Judge Shipman in the prior case,
and defendants contended in view of these two patents that the
two claims in controversy must be limited in their scope, and
that there had been no infringement of the claims as thus limited. Judge Lacombe held that as there was no prior patent
before him which had not been before Judge Shipman, and as
the combination, which Judge Shipman described as the gist of
the invention, was undoubtedly in defendants' structures, complainants were entitled to a restraining order under "well settled rules of practice." 105 Fed. Rep. 626. The preliminary injunction was therefore granted. From this interlocutory order
defendants took an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, and on a hearing there the order granting
the preliminary injunction was reversed, and the cause remanded
to the Circuit Court with instructions to dismiss the bill with
costs. 108 Fed. Rep. 267. A petition was filed for a rehearing and denied. 110 Fed. Rep. 377. This writ of certiorari
was then granted. 183 U. S. 698.
.Ifr. Fawicis Rawle and X'. Frecderick P. Fish for petitioners. 2X'. Joseph L. Levy was with them on the brief.
.X.. William A. AfXegrath and _Mf'. Cliarles H. Duell for
respondent.
CHIEF JUSTIcE, FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MRn.

The Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York,
Shipman, J., presiding, in July, 1900, entered a decree in the
case of B'ill v. Third Avenue Rail'oad Company, adjudging the
letters patent to George Al. Brill of July 5, 1892, No. 478,218,
for improvements in car trucks, as to claims 1, 2, 9, 10, 11, 12,
14 and 27 thereof, to be good and valid, and that defendant,
as the purchaser of one hundred and eighty-one trucks of the
Bemis Car Box Company, had infringed the exclusive rights of
complainant thereunder; and for injunction, accounting, and

BRILL v. PECKIIAM MOTOR TRUCK CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

recovery of damages. And a final decree was entered in the
cause October 1, 1900. This bill was filed October 15, 1900,
in the same court, against another truck building company, and
a motion for preliminary injunction was heard in that court
before Lacombe, J., and sustained on the strength of the previous adjudication. The patent related to the construction of
non-pivotal electric street railway trucks, and the invention
was intended to remedy oscillation.
Judge Lacombe, in ordering the preliminary injunction, said:
"The only question presented is whether defendant's structure infringes. That involves the construction of the claims
declared on, and, for the purposes of this motion, the construction already adopted by this court on final bearing in the
Third Avenue case, 103 Fed. Rep. 289, should be followed;
for there is no prior patent, no prior use, proved here, which
was not before Judge Shipman. It is true that in that case
the defendant's device was a much closer copy than the one
now under consideration, containing, as it did, the feature that
the spiral springs came first into play, and the further feature
of depending caps, in which the leaves of the elliptical springs
play vertically, but the couft most carefully indicates that the
leading feature of the invention lies outside of these details;
that the 'gist of the invention consists in combining with the
frames of the truck and the spiral springs other springs, viz.,
elliptical springs, between the car body and the extensions of
the independent frame,' the object being to break the rhythm
of the springs, and thus do away with the galloping or rocking
motion. The defendant here insists that there is no rhythm
broken, indeed, that there is no rhythm to break, and that the
combination of the quotation does not do away with the galloping motion. On those points, however, this court should follow
the earlier decision. There are additional rods, and also spirals,
below the frame, which apparently in defendant's structure do
their share in eliminating galloping; but the combination which
Judge Shipman described as the gist of the invention is undoubtedly in defendant's structure, and, under well settled rules
of practice, complainant is entitled to a restraining order until
final hearing.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

The rule of practice for one member of a court to regard the
prior decision of another, in cases of this kind, as to be followed
until otherwise authoritatively adjudicated, seems to be justified
in the orderly conduct of proceedings, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals did not hold that the Circuit Court had improvidently
exercised its discretion in granting the preliminary injunction
in accordance with its own prior decision and decree, which decree was not the subject of the appeal. But the court proceeded
to dispose of the case upon its merits as one in which it was apparent complainant could not ultimately prevail, and relied on
.fast, Foos and Company v. Stover 3fangfacturing Company,
177 U. S. 485, as authorizing the pursuit of that course.
It was contended there that the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit erred in refusing to follow the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in respect
of the validity and scope of a patent, and in reversing the order
of the Circuit Court, which, on the ground of comity, had done
so, and we held that the obligation was not imperative, but that
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit was at
liberty to exercise its own judgment.
In doing so the Court of Appeals directed the dismissal of the
bill, before answer filed or proofs taken, on an appeal from an
order granting a temporary injunction, and its action in that
regard was a principal question discussed in this court.
It should be observed that in that case complainant was served
with defendant's affidavits before the argument below, and was
permitted to put in rebuttal affidavits. The merits of the case
were fully before the court, and the patent in suit related to
the use in a windmill of an old and simple mechanical device
for the purpose of converting a rotary into a reciprocating ootion. It was held that the case fell within the rule sometimes
applied where there is no dispute upon the facts, and there appears to be no reasonable possibility that complainant may succeed. But this court took care to define the class of cases in
which that might be done, and speaking through MIr. Justice
Brown said:
"Does this doctrine apply to a case where a temporary injunction is grantedpendente lite upon affidavits and immediately

BRILL v. PECKHAM MOTOR TRUCK CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the filing of a bill? We are of opinion that this must be
determined from the circumstances of the particular case. If
the showing made by the plaintiff be incomplete; if the order
for the injunction be reversed, because injunction was not the
proper remedy, or because under the particular circumstances
of the case, it should not have been granted ; or if other relief
be possible, notwithstanding the injunction be refused, then,
clearly, the case should be remanded for a full hearing upon
pleadings and proofs. But if the bill be obviously devoid of
equity upon its face, and such invalidity be incapable of remedy
by amendment; or if the patent manifestly fail to disclose a
patentable novelty in the invention, we know of no reason why,
to save a protracted litigation, the court may not order the bill
to be dismissed. Ordinarily, if the case involve a question of
fact, as of anticipation or infringement, we think the parties
are entitled to put in their evidence in the manner prescribed
by the rules of this court for taking testimony in equity causes.
But if there be nothing in the affidavits tending to throw a
doubt upon the existence or date of the anticipating devices,
and giving them their proper effect, they establish the invalidity
of the patent; or if no question be made regarding the identity
of the alleged infringinig device, and it appear clear that such
device is not an infringement, and no suggestion be made of
further proofs upon the subject, we think the court should not
only overrule the order for the injunction, but dismiss the bill."
In the present case the notice of the motion for preliminary
injunction was returnable October 19, and due service of complainants' affidavits was made; the hearing was adjourned to
October 26 on defendants' application; and on that day defendants' affidavits were presented and the hearing proceeded,
complainants not having been afforded previous opportunity to
inspect these affidavits, and not being granted leave to rebut
them.
The record does not show that leave was asked, but if so, it
would naturally be denied because in the opinion of the Circuit
Court its previous decision necessarily required the granting of
the preliminary injunction. In any view the effect was that
complainants, although they were prepared to go on with the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

motion they had made, were subjected on appeal to the same
consequences as if the preliminary hearing had been a final
one.
Complainants, if the case had been retained for final hearing, could have cross-examined defendants' ex parte witnesses
as to the actual construction of defendants' various trucks containing the combination of spiral and elliptical springs of the
patent in suit; the actual operation of defendants' devices;
whefher defendants' devices in fact infringed claims 1 and 2
of complainants' patent if limited; or claims 9, 10, 11 and
14 thereof; or whether the devices of the Peckham patent,
No. 419,876, were in fact incapable of practicable use, or were
ever in fact used; and could have introduced evidence on these
subjects, as also on the question whether complainants' invention antedated the Peckham and Manier patents; to establish
the utility and value and adoption and use of the combination
of claims I and 2 ; and that defendants' trucks were not "radically different, both in construction and mode of operation
from that of the patent in suit," as alleged by defendants'
counsel to have been shown by the experiments set up in defendants' affidavits.
Those experiments were performed by respondents and their
experts between the filing of the bill and the hearing of the
motion, some eleven days, and counsel say that "these experiments would seem to demonstrate conclusively that Peckharn's
elliptic springs do not perform the function claimed for the elliptic springs in the patent in suit. Indeed, as far as galloping goes, their introduction into the Peckham truck is
demonstrated to be a positive disadvantage; and the only beneficial function they can perform-the only reason for their
continued use all these years is that stated by the respondents,
i.e., to prevent the lateral swaying of the car body."
This is said in support of the contention, on which counsel
lay great stress in this court, that respondents lessen oscillation
by the use of an underlying tension spring, and use elliptical
springs merely for bracing the car body.
Counsel also say: "That all of these matters in reference to
tlhe fquntion of the springs, and whether they operated ae-

BRILL v. PECKHAM MOTOR TRUCK CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cording to the theories of the petitioners or the belief of the
respondents; and incidentally whether respondents' trucks did
really embody the alleged invention of the patent in suit;
were susceptible of absolute, practical demonstration."
Clearly complainants were entitled to test these experiments
by cross-examination and to introduce evidence on their part
as to the operation of the springs.
If Judge Shipman's definition of claims 1 and 2 was correct,
no question of infringement would arise, but the Court of Appeals held that his interpretation was incorrect, and on reference to Manier, No. 409,993, and Peckham, No. 419,876, that
the claims, as they read and as Judge Shipman construed
them, must be limited. Yet it is admitted by counsel that the
date of the conception of the invention of the patent in suit
was prior to the dates of both the patents of Manier and Peckham, but it is argued that the inventor was not sufficiently
diligent in reducing his invention to practice. If the matter of
delay were of importance, as assumed, it was open to the inventor to explain the reason of the delay, if any, and complainants were entitled to make proof of such explanation.
Again, in respect of "the actual operation of defendants' devices as compared with the devices of the patents in suit," and
"the question whether defendants' devices do, in fact, infringe
claims 1 and 2, if said claims are to be limited as held by the
court below," respondents' counsel contend that this issue was
tendered by respondents and decided by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and that the case ought not to be "reopened" to
permit petitioners to introduce additional proofs. The difficulty is, however, that the issue was only tendered on the preliminary application, and the hearing was not in itself a final
hearing. If complainants in every case must understand that
a motion for preliminary injunction requires the same showing
as on final hearing, very few motions of that sort would be
made.
We think the case comes within the exceptions pointed out
in the Masft, .Foo8 & Company decision, 177 U. S. 485, and are
impressed with the conviction that complainants have not had
their day in court and that it ought to be accorded them, At

OCTOBER TERM0,

1902.

Syllabus.

189 U. S.

the same time we do not wish to go into the case so far as to
indicate any opinion as to the proper construction of claims 1
and 2 or on the question of infringement. There should be a
hearing below after the case is made ripe for it unaffected by
any intimations from us.
The situation then is this: The order for a preliminary injunction was reversed as part of the decree directing the dismissal of the bill, and not independently of the grounds on
which that conclusion rested. But the Court of Appeals had
the power to vacate the preliminary injunction, and had only
this been done, an appeal to this court could not have been
taken, nor would a certiorari ordinarily have been granted in
such circumstances.
Considering the peculiar attitude in which the case is presented, we prefer not to discuss the question how far the appellate courts are justified in reversing orders of the Circuit
Courts granting preliminary injunctions, when their discretion
has not been improperly exercised, and the order will be
-Decreeof the Circuit Court of Apeals reversed, and cause remanded to the Circuit Court with a direction to proceed to
final hearing in due course; the latter court being left at
liberty to deal with theyreliminaryinjunction asit otherwise
might but for this decree.

TENINESSEE v. CONDON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 209. Argued March 12, 13, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

It is the duty of this court to decide actual controversies by a judgment
which can be carried into effect, and not to give opinions upon moot
questions or abstract propositions, or to declare principles or rules of

law which cannot affect the matter in issue in the case before it.
When, pending an appeal, it becomes, without any fault on the part of the
defendant, impossible for this court to grant any effectual relief to the
plaintiff in error even if it should decide the case in his favor, the appeal
will be dismissed. Mills v. Green, 159 U, S. 651, followed.

