OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

viewed by Lurton, J., in the Circuit Court of Appeals, 111 Fed.
Rep. 561.
Decree of the Circuit Court in Ho. 67 afirmed.
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in No. 221 reversed
with a direction to dismiss the apeal and writ of error.

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY, LIMITED,
v. DUTHIE.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 336.

Submitted March 23, 1903-Decided April 13, 1903.

Under section 954, Rev. Stat., the Circuit Court has power in its discretion
to allow plaintiff to amend his petition after judgment has been entered
in his favor, but while the court still has control of the record, and it is
not an abuse of such discretion to permit an amendment setting up plaintiff's citizenship, the fact being established and residence only having

been pleaded, and where it appears that had the amendment not been
made as it was the Circuit Court of Appeals would have been constrained
to reverse and remand with leave to make the amendment.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

X.r. Aldis B. Browne, .Mr. Alexander Britton and .M,. Eben
Richards for plaintiff in error.
3[r. Leigh Clark for defendant in error.
MR. CnEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Duthie brought suit for the recovery of damages for personal
injuries in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas against the Mexican Central Railway Company, Limited; and in his original complaint averred
that he "resides in El Paso, in El Paso County, State of Texas,

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY v. DUTHIE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the Western District of said State;" and that defendant
was a citizen of the State of Massachusetts. The cause was tried
before a jury and resulted in a verdict and judgment thereon
April 10, 1902. The record shows "that no further proceedings were had in said cause after the entry of said judgment
until, to wit, the 11th day of April, 1902, on which day plaintiff filed his motion asking leave to amend his petition," to the
effect "that leave be granted him to now amend his said
original and first amended petition by inserting therein the following: 'And is a citizen of said State and of the United States
of America,' after the allegation made in said pleading 'that
plaintiff resides in El Paso, in El Paso County, State of Texas.'"
In support of the motion plaintiff stated under oath "that he
is now and was at the date of the filing of his original petition
herein, and was on the 22d day of July, 1901, the date of his
injuries, a bonafide citizen of the United States of America and
of the State of Texas." The court granted leave to so amend
and defendant excepted. Thereupon defendant applied to the
court to certify to this court the question of jurisdiction to
amend, and to retain the judgment after such amendment; and
a certificate was accordingly granted.
If the complaint or petition had remained as it was originally
framed, and the case had then been carried to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, that court would have been constrained to reverse
the judgment and remand the cause for a new trial, with leave
to amend. .etcalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586; Horne v.
Hammond Company, 155 U. S. 393.
But plaintiff, discovering the defect in the averment before
the case had passed from the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
applied and obtained leave to amend, and made the amendment. So that the only question is whether the Circuit Court
had power to allow the amendment.
By section 954 of the Revised Statutes it was provided that
the trial court might "at any time permit either of the parties
to amend any defect in the process or pleadings, upon such
conditions as it shall, in its discretion and by its rules, prescribe;" and since the trial court in the present case still had
control of the record, it had jurisdiction to act, and we may

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

add that we do not perceive that there was any abuse of discretion in permitting the amendment in the circumstances disclosed. Mexican Central Riailway Company v. Pinkney, 149
U. S. 194, 201; T.emaine v. Hitchcock, 23 Wall. 518. If the
statutes of Texas forbade such an amendment, the law of the
United States must govern. Phelps v. Oaks, 117 U. S. 236;
Southern Pacific Company v. .Denton, 146 U. S. 202.
The suggestion that defendant was cut off from trying the
fact as to plaintiff's citizenship is without merit. The record
does not disclose that defendant sought to contest plaintiff's
affidavit, and for aught that appears the fact may have been
conceded.
Judgment affirmed.

JAQUITH v. ALDEN.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.

No. 516. Submitted January 12, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

Payments on a running account, in the usual course of business, by a person whose property had actually become insufficient to pay his debts,
where new sales succeeded payments and the net result was to increase
his estate, and the seller had no knowledge or notice of the insolvency
and no reason to believe an intention to prefer, are not preferences,

which must be surrendered as a condition to the allowance of proof of
claim, under the bankruptcy act of 1898.
Piriev. Chicago Title and Trust Company, 182 U. S. 438, in which the decision proceeded on the finding of facts made pursuant to clause 3 of
General Orders in Bankruptcy, XXXVI, distinguished.

F. N. WOODWARD et al. filed their petition in bankruptcy and
were adjudicated bankrupts November 26, 1901. They had
become insolvent August 15, and on that day were not indebted to G. Edwin Alden, who, afterwards, in ignorance of
the insolvency, made sales to Woodward et al. and received
payments from them therefor in the regular course of business,

