SENA v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SENA v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 40. Argued January 16, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
1. Where the boundaries of a Spanish grant made in 1728, are defined with
accuracy they will not be controlled by vague and practically unintelligible terms as to quantity.
2. While, owing to the loose manner in which they were made and the
boundaries described, this court has been extremely liberal in construing Spanish grants, such grants must still be construed favorably to the
government, and the grantee is bound to show not only the grant itself,
but that its boundaries were fixed with reasonable certainty; and where
the Court of Private Land Claims has held that the evidence of settlement, occupation, continuity of possession, cultivation, etc., is so vague,
contradictory and uncertain as to be almost wanting, this court in the
absence of clear evidence to the contrary will adopt the opinion of the
court below in that particular.
3. Where the last known occupant of a Spanish grant made in 1728 had
been killed by the Indians in 1839, and when the land passed to the
United States under the treaty of 1848 with Mexico possession had been
abandoned by his descendants for at least nine years and no action was
taken by any one in regard to the grant until 1899, and meanwhile the
public land surveys were extended over the tract in 1861, homestead and
other entries were made, improvements established, patents secured and
mines opened and developed, the doctrine of laches is peculiarly applicable, and under the provisions of the statute establishing it, the Court
of Private Land Claims could not be called upon to confirm such a grant.

THIS was a petition for the confirmation of a tract of land in
the county of Santa F6, New Mexico, known as the Jos6 de
Leyba grant, which has never been officially surveyed, but is
estimated to contain about 18,000 acres.
After filing the petition it was found there were a number
of persons holding portions of the tract sued for under a claim
of title adverse to the grant; and upon motion of the United
States requiring these adverse claimants to be made parties defendants, the original petition was amended, and two of these,
the American Turquoise Company and one McNulty, joined
with the United States in defending the case.

OCTOBER TERN,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

The court disallowed the claim upon the ground that the evidence did not show a perfect grant, inasmuch as there was no
evidence of a compliance with the royal ordinance of 1754-,
which provided that all grants subsequent to 1700 must be confirmed as a prerequisite to their validity; and that, if it were
an imperfect grant, it should, under the act creating the Court
of Private Land Claims, have been filed within two years from
the taking effect of the act, and was therefore barred.
Since the decree of the Court of Private Land Claims certain
additional evidence has been discovered, tending to show possession of the land covered by the grant for a long period subsequent thereto, and which it is now insisted supplies the defects which caused the rejection of the grant.
l r. Frank TY Clancy for appellant.
on the brief.

Xir. H. S. Clancy was

_Mr. iSpecial Assistant fatthew G. Reynolds for the United
States. .31. Solicitor General Richa'ds, XJ]r. Special Assistant Attorney Pope and .Xr. Ward E. Bartlett were on the brief.
Mr&. James

-.

Y'oom was on a brief for defendant Prince.

MR. JUSTicE Bnow.N, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The petition of Leyba, upon which the grant was originally
made, and which is the material document in this case, and is
in the Spanish language, is thus translated in the record:
"City of Santa F , May 241, 1728, before the governor and
captain general of this kingdom, there was presented this petition with its contents:
"Joseph de Leyba, resident of the city of Santa F6, appear
before your excellency in due legal form, and state that in accordance with the royal ordinance of his Royal Majesty, I
enter a piece of land and wood, vacant and unsettled, enough
for half afanega of corn-planting land, somewhat more or less,
which is bounded on the east by the San Marcos road; on the

SENA v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

south by an arroyo called Cuesta del Oregano; on the west
by land of Juan Garcia de las Rivas, and on the north by lands
of Captain Sebastian de Vargas.
"Therefore, I ask and pray, your excellency be pleased to
make me in the name of His Majesty, a grant for the said piece
of land, for myself and my children, heirs and successors, and
that the act of royal possession be executed to me whereby I
will receive benefit and favor as well as justice which I seek.
And I swear in due form that this my petition is not made in
malice and as it may be necessary, etc.
"JOSEPH DE LEYBA."

Annexed thereto is the grant of the governor and captain
general of the province, with the condition that the grantees
settle the land within the term prescribed by the royal ordinances, and a direction to the alcalde to put the party in possession.
Following this is the report of the chief alcalde of the city of
Santa F6, that having taken witnesses and "inspected the lands
and woods prayed for by the said petitioner," he put him in
royal possession by performing the customary ceremonies of
livery of seizin.
There are two disputed propositions connected with this petition of Leyba's: (1) As to the quantity of land granted; (2) as
to its boundaries. It is admitted by both parties that the above
translation from the record of the quantity of the land granted
"as a piece of land and wood, vacant and unsettled, enough for
half afanega of corn-planting land, somewhat more or less," is
incorrect, the original Spanish being as follows: "1Registroun
pedaso de tierras y monte, yermo y despoblado, quo cabe media
fanega de maiz de sembradura,poco mas 6 menos."

The argument of the government is that the quantity covered
by the grant was only enough land to plant half a. fanega of
corn, a little more or less, and that as a fanega do maiz is a
measure of corn which will plant 8.82 acres, half of a fanega
would measure, 4.41 acres; the government translation being
"I register a piece of land, and woods, uncultivated and unsettled, that will contain half a fanega do maiz do sembradu 3, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

little more or less." The inference from this is that all that
was conveyed was a piece of land that "will contain" enough
for half a fenega of gnaiz. Claimant's translation, however,
of the words "que cabe" is that it is a tract of land that "contains" within its outer boundaries half afaneg of corn, that is,
of land capable of cultivation.
The probabilities, aside from the fact that the word "cabe"
is a verb of the present tense, favor the construction of the
claimant, as the words "lands and woods" would hardly be
used as descriptive of a tract of four and one half acres. In
addition to that, however, the description of quantity is wholly
inconsistent with the boundaries, (hereafter stated,) which evidently contemplated a large tract of land, according to the
Spanish and Mexican customs of making grants to settle. Indeed, a grant of four and one half acres of land at a distance
from any town, city or settlement is so rare that the presumptions are all against it. If the boundaries were defined with
accuracy, we should have very little difficulty in holding that
they would not be controlled by the vague description of "a
parcel of land and woods, uncultivated and unsettled, which includes half afavege of corn-planting land."
This is the more apparent by an inspection of the subsequent
documents, which include a will of Simon de Leyba, son of the
grantee, of the year 1783, giving the boundaries of the tract,
and a deed of Salvador Antonio de Leyba, grandson of Jos6, to
his son in 1834, also describing the lands by similar boundaries.
Indeed, none of the subsequent documents make any reference
whatever to the half fanegaof corn-planting land. The will also
contains a bequest of live stock and farming tools seemingly
appurtenant to the ranch and greatly in excess of what would
naturally belong to a tract of four and a half acres.
2. The difficulty, however, is with the description of the
boundaries themselves, which is: " On the east by the San larcos road; on the south by an arroyo called Cuesta del Oregano;
on the west by land of Juan Garcia de las Rivas, and on the
north by lands of Captain Sebastian de Vargas." In the will
of Simon de Leyba of 1783 the boundaries are the same upon
the south and east, and on the north " the road which goes

SENA v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

towards Pecos from the Cerillos, or lands of Captain Sebastian
de Yargas," and on the west " with the lands of the old Pueblo
of the Cienega." The land is described in substantially the
same terms in the deed of 1834. The description of the lands
on the east side as bounded by the San Marcos road is clearly
defined. The description of the north boundary as the road
from Pecos to the Cerrillos is also defined with somewhat less
certainty, the lands of Sebastian de Vargas having been located,
surveyed and confirmed several miles to the east of the Leyba
grant; but upon the west and south the boundaries, even as
sworn to orally by witnesses, are so uncertain as to afford little
guide to a surveyor in attempting to locate the tract.
The west boundary, which is described in the grant as "the
lands of Juan Garcia de las Rivas," is described in the will of
1783 as "the lands of the old Pueblo of the Cienega." While
there is some evidence from the archives that the father of
Garcia de las iRivas, in 17101, owned a piece of land somewhere
west of the Leyba tract, known even then as the old Pueblo of
la Cienega, there is nothing to show the east boundary of the
Pueblo, and consequently the west boundary of the Leyba tract.
The south boundary, said to be "an arroyo called Cuesta del
Oregano," it seems to be impossible to locate with any degree
of certainty, though it was probably near the Coyote Spring, at
which the only house built upon this tract appears to have been
located. This house long since fell into ruins, and there is no
evidence that it has been occupied since the last owner of the
grant, Juan Angel de Leyba, was supposed to have been killed
by the Indians in 1839.
The evidence of possession subsequent to the grant does not
afford much aid in fixing the boundaries, since the land, like
most of that in Spanish-American territories, was not of a kind
admitting of a well defined, actual and adverse possession, such
as that of cultivated land. The most favorable view for petitioner that can be taken of this evidence is that possession of a
house or a certain field of arable land may be referable to the
entire tract included within the boundaries of the grant; but
when the boundaries themselves are indefinite, the possession
of a house is of no value in fixing the boundaries. A grant too

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

indefinite to be located and never fixed by any survey, is void
as against the United States. As was observed in United States
v. Delespine, of a Spanish grant in Florida, 15 Pet. 319, 335,
"the public domain cannot be granted by the courts." They
may locate the boundaries fixed by grant, but the boundaries
must be so fixed as to admit of a survey. United States v. .l-iTanda, 16 Pet. 153, 160; United States v. Ring, 3 How. 773;
Villalobos v. United States, 10 How. 541 ; Ai'ivaca -Landand
Cattle Co. v. United States, 181 U. S. 649, 652.
The grant was made and possession was given to the grantee
in 1728. Nothing being shown to the contrary, we presume
that the possession continued until 1783, the date of the will of
Simon de Leyba, to his son Salvador Antonio de Leyba, "whom
I recognize as my sole heir." The next item of interest tending
to show possession is the deed of Salvador Antonio de Leyba
in 1834 to his son Juan Angel de Leyba, who are both described
as residents of the city of Santa F6, wherein the same boundaries are also given, although the land is called "the rancho of
the Coyote Spring, with its houses and corrals, together with
the grant in which the said ranch is situated, which was given
to my grandfather by the King of Spain May 25, 1728." Juan
Angel appears to have been killed by Indians a few years after
this deed was made, but it seems to have been uncertain whether
he was in actual possession of the tract.
To rebut the case made by the claimant the government offered in evidence the depositions of several residents of that
neighborhood, who swore that they had never heard of the
Jos6 de Leyba grant, or its boundaries. Objection was made
to the reading of these depositions upon the ground that the
witnesses named were present in court, and might be sworn
orally. It is unnecessary to determine whether the court erred
in admitting the depositions under such circumstances, in view
of the vague and unsatisfactory evidence on behalf of the claimant of the boundaries and possession of this tract.
Admitting that the documents introduced afforded a sufficient presumption of a continued possession from 1738 to 1834,
there was no evidence of the occupation of the land by any
member of the Leyba family subsequent to 1839. This fact of

SENA v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a total absence of any claim to the land made by the last heirs
of the occupant, and that the house was allowed to fall into
ruins, is strong evidence either that the land was abandoned as
not worth cultivating or that a residence there had become too
dangerous by reason of the presence of hostile Indians. In this
connection the court below found that " the evidence as to the
settlement and occupation of the tract purporting to have been
granted, continuity of possession, cultivation, residence, improvement, claim of ownership, notoriety of the grant and
knowledge of the existence in the community or by the oldest
inhabitants now living, is so vague, contradictory and uncertain
as to be almost wholly wanting." In the absence of clear evidence to the contrary we deem it our duty to adopt the opinion
of the court below in that particular. United States v. Pendell,
185 IT. S. 189, 197.
While in construing these Spanish grants, owing to the loose
manner in which they were made, and the boundaries described,
we have been extremely liberal, still we are bound to consider
that grants of this description, as of all others, must be construed
favorably to the government, and the grantee is bound to show
not only the grant itself but that the boundaries were fixed
with reasonable certainty. S'lidell v. .Grandjean,111 U. S. 412,
437; United States v. Oregon &c. 1?. ?., 164 U. S. 526, 539.
3. But conceding that an experienced surveyor, acquainted
with the land in that neighborhood, might locate the boundaries of this tract, there is a still more serious difficulty in the
evidence of abandonment and the laches of the claimant, which
defences may properly be considered together. Under our
Anglo-Saxon system of jurisprudence, questions of the abandonment of land by the owner rarelr arise, since they are usually
sold to a purchaser or to the State for taxes; but the Spanish
law recognizes distinctly the right to abandonment. It is stated
in 1 Partidas, Law 50, p. 365, that "if a man be dissatisfied
with his immovable estate and abandons it, immediately he departs from it corporally, with an intention that it shall be no
longer his, it will become the property of him who first enters
thereon." See also Hall's Mexican Law, ยง 1489. The same
principle is stated by Escriche, Title "Abandono de cosas :"

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

"If an owner voluntarily abandons a thing, whether personal
or real, with intent no longer to count it in the number of his
possessions, because it is useless or burdensome, or for mere
caprice, he loses his ownership, and the first who occupies it
makes it his." We are also referred by counsel to a law of the
Departmental Council of New Mexico enacted in 1837, which
declares that "every individual who abandons the land upon
which he has settled and which he acquired by grant, with the
intention of establishing himself elsewhere to live there, and
does not leave some one to take his place in ordinary labor, shall
lose the real property he had acquired." See also Iandes v.
J'erkins, 12 Missouri, 238, 256 ; Sideck v. Duran, 67 Texas,
256.
As there is no testimony tending to show that the Leybas
ever sought to resume possession of the land after the death of
Juan Angel in 1839, there was at least a presumption of abandonment. Not only is there no evidence tending to show possession of the land by representatives of the original grantee
since 1839, but for sixty years thereafter there was no attempt
made to assert title thereto. By section 7 of the Private Land
Claims act, 26 Stat. 854, "all proceedins" therein "shall be
conducted as near as may be according to the practice of the
courts of equity of the United States," and by section 13 no
claim shall be allowed upon an imperfect title unless " the
claimant would have had a lawful right to make it perfect had
the territory not been acquired by the United States," and it
is one "that the United States are bound, upon the principles
of public law, or by the provisions of the treaty of cession, to
respect and permit to become complete and perfect if the same
was not at said date already complete and perfect." While
it is true that we have held that evidence of possession since
the date of the treaty cannot be regarded as an element going
to make up a title, Crespin v. United States, 168 U. S. 208;
Hayes v. United States, 170 U. S. 637, 653; Hays v. Uvitec7
States, 175 U. S. 248, 259, it does not follow that abandonment
of the land and failure to assert a title since the treaty may
not operate as a bar. It is clear that, in the establishment of
a title as of a certain date, possession subsequent to that date

SENA v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is of no value ; but considering the title to have been sufficient
as of that date, failure to assert such title within a reasonable
time thereafter opens the case to the defence of laches.
In United States v. -Hoore, 12 How. 209, it was said of a
Spanish grant in Louisiana: "We are called on to decide in
this case according to the rules governing a court of equity,
and are bound to give due weight to lapse of time. The party
was under no disability, and slept on his rights, as he now claims
them, for nearly fifty years, without taking a single step. He
makes no excuse for his long delay, and cannot now get relief
by having his title completed. No case has come within our
experience, where the obscurity and antiquity of the transaction
more forcibly than in the present case, required a court of equity to bar a complainant on legal presumptions founded on
lapse of time; and where the bar should take the place of individual belief." To the same effect are Gildersleeve v. _Yew
Mexico -Mining Co., 161 U. S. 573, and United States v. Xartinez, 184 U. S. 441.
There are facts connected with this case which -render the
doctrine of laches peculiarly applicable. This land passed into
the possession of the United States under the treaty with Mexico of 1848. Possession of the land had then been abandoned
by the descendants of the grantees for at least nine years, and
probably longer. In 1854, six years after the treaty, a surveyor
general was appointed for New Mexico, 10 Stat. 308, whose
duty it was to ascertain the origin, nature, character and existence of all claims to lands under the laws, usages and customs
of Spain and Mexico, and report to Congress with a view of
confirming bonafide grants, and giving full effect to the treaty.
No action appears to have been taken before him to ascertain
the validity or boundaries of this grant, although the act seems
to have remained in force until 1891, when the Court of Private
Land Claims was created. The public land surveys were extended over the tract in 1861 ; homestead and other entries
were made, improvements established, patents secured, mines
opened and developed, but no attempt made to assert the rights
of the grantee or his descendants. The Court of Private Land
Claims was established in 1891, and all persons having imperVOL. cLxxx x-16

OCTOBER TERAM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

fect titles were required to present them within two years, and
all having perfect titles had the right, but were not bound, to
apply to that court for confirmation of such title. It was not
until 1899 that the petition in this case was filed by a person
who appears, in 1895, to have found lineal descendants of the
original grantee, from whom be had secured deeds of this
abandoned grant, the very existence of which seems to have
been forgotten. If this be considered an imperfect grant, the
right to file it expired years ago; if it be a perfect grant, as
now claimed, we see no reason why the owner may not prosecute his claim in the territorial courts. Without expressing an
opinion as to whether this was a perfect or imperfect grant
within the meaning of the law, or whether the boundaries
might not still be ascertained by a survey, we are satisfied
that it is one which the Court of Private Land Claims could
not be called upon to confirm, and that, if for no other reason,
the petition should be dismissed upon the ground of laches.
The decree of the court below is therefore

Affirmed.
(See note on page 504.)

RANKIN v. FIDELITY INSURANCE, TRUST AN D
SAFE DEPOSIT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 178. Argued February 26, 27, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
The following propositions may be considered as settled in regard to the
liability of shareholders of national banks under section 5151, Rev. Stat.:
1. Liability may be established by allowing one's name to appear upon the
books of the corporation as owner, though in fact he be only a pledgee.
Nor can the real owner exonerate himself from responsibility by making a
colorable transfer of the stock, with the understanding that at his request
it shall be retransferred.
2. Stockholders of record are liable for unpaid installments, though in fact
they may have parted with their stock, or held it for others.
3. A mere pledgee, however, who receives from his debtor a transfer of
shares, surrenders the certificate to the bank and takes out new ones in

