OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

If the first alternative prayer of the bill were granted, and it
were adjudged that the defendants were estopped from asserting that the Seven Stars Company was not the owner of the
mining properties, and adjudging such company to have fall title
thereto, and that defendants should also repay all the proceeds
of ore taken therefrom and received by them, amounting to
$17,819.25, it will result that of the $450,000, agreed upon
as the price' of the property, they would have received but
$112,339.96, and would lose $337,660.04, of the amount agreed
to be paid. Upon the other hand, if the second alternative
prayer were granted, and defendants were adjudged to return
the money found due in the first decree of the District Court,
namely, $180,139.82, and retake the property, which now appears to be of little value, they would be practically, in either
case charged with the entire burden of the venture which it was
the express object of the Cowland agreement to avoid. A decree that would bring about this result would savor of punishment to defendants rather than of compensation to plaintiff.
We think the plaintiffs have wholly failed to make out such
a complicity on the part of the defendants, with the preparation
and circulation of these prospectuses, as would make them liable for the losses which the plaintiffs have doubtless sustained.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
.Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
FOR THE EIGHTH
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
CIRCUIT.

No. 108. Argued January 23, 26, 1903.-)ecided M]%arch9, 1903.
regulate commerce
Prior to the passage of the act of Congress " to further
February 19, 1903,
approved
"
States
the
among
with foreign nations and
the direction of the Ata District Attorney of the United States under
of a request made
torney General of the United States given in pursuance
power to commence
by the Interstate Commerce Commission was without
to restrain it from
a proceeding in equity against a railroad corporation

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

275

Statement of the Case.

discriminating in its rates between different localities. Held, therefore,
that there was error committed below in refusing to sustain a demurrer
of a defendant railroad company to a bill filed by a District Attorney of
the United States under the circumstances stated.
As, however, the act of February 19, 1903, expressly conferred the power
which did not theretofore exist and as that act specifically provided that
the new remedies which it created should be applicable to all causes then
pending, Held, that although the action of the lower court in refusing
to sustain the demurrer would be overruled, the case would not be finally
disposed of but would be remanded for further proceedings in consonance
with the provisions of the act of February 19, 1903.
THE original bill of complaint in this cause was filed on behalf of the United States against the present appellant in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the second division of
the District of Kansas on July 26, 1893. To the bill a demurrer was filed and overruled. 65 Fed. Rep. 903. Subsequently
exceptions were sustained to an answer, and thereafter an
amended answer and a replication were filed. The questions
now presented for decision, however, were raised by an
amended bill filed on July 19, 1897. In such amended bill it
was alleged that the suit was brought on behalf of the United
States by the United States attorney for the District of Kansas,
by the authority of and under the direction of the Attorney
General of the United States, and that such authority and direction had been given in pursuance of a request of the Interstate
Commerce Commission of the United States "that the United
States attorney for the District of Kansas be authorized and
directed to institute and prosecute 'all necessary proceedings,
legal or equitable, for the enforcement of the provisions of the
interstate commerce law against the defendant in relation to the
matters herein complained of." It was further averred in substance that the respondent was subject to the terms and provisions of the act to regulate commerce, 24: Stat. 379, and operated
lines of railway between the city of St. Louis in the State of
Missouri, and the city of Omaha, in the State of Nebraska, a distance of 501 miles, and between the city of St. Louis and the
city of Wichita, in the State of Kansas, a distance of 458 miles.
It was charged that in the transportation of freight between
St. Louis and said cities of Omaha and Wichita the service was

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellant.

189 U. S.

substantially of a like, contemporaneous character, and was
made under substantially similar circumstances and conditions
but that, notwithstanding such fact, the rates exacted upon
shipments of freight between St. Louis and Wichita very much
exceeded the rates charged on freight shipped between St.
Louis and Omaha. It was averred that the collection of such
alleged excessive freight rates or any rate of freight on shipments between St. Louis and Wichita in excess of the rate
charged for shipments of freight of a similar character and classification between St. Louis and Omaha, operated an unjust and
unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage against the city of
Wichita and the localities tributary thereto, and against the
shippers of freight between St. Louis and the city of Wichita.
Averring that the wrongs complained of "are remediless in the
premises under the ordinary forms and proceedings at law, and
are relievable only in a court of equity and in this form of procedure," the ultimate relief asked was the grant of a perpetual
injunction restraining the respondent from continuing to exact
a greater rate for transportation of freight of like classification
between the city of Wichita and the city of St. Louis than was
asked between the city of St. Louis and the city of Omaha.
A demurrer was filed to the amended bill upon various grounds,
one of which denied the right of the United States to institute
the suit.
On hearing, the demurrer was overruled, exception was reserved, and, the defendant electing to stand on its demurrer, a
final decree was entered granting a perpetual injunction as
prayed, and, on appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
decree, but filed no opinion. An appeal was thereupon allowed.
-fr. John F. Dillon, with whom Xr. J. 1i. Richards, _1tr.
Alexander G.
C. . Benton, Mr. B. P. WVaggener and 3.
Cochran were on the brief, for appellant.
I. The Interstate Commerce Act is a complete code of laws
and rules of procedure, both civil and criminal, governing interstate commerce and radically revolutionizes all prior procedure. Aside from private actions at law for damages by
persons injured (sees. 8, 9), the said act creates new rights and

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

277

Argument for Appellant.

remedies to which all right of redress is limited, and which
the general, or common law, so called, did not give. _. C. C.
v. B. & 0. 1?. P. Co., 145 U. S. 263, 275; Express Cases, 117
U. S. 1; United States ex rel. Morris v. -R. R. Co., 40 Fed.
Rep. 101; -Menacho v. Ward, 27 Fed. Rep. 530; 1. C. C. v. C.
N. 0.& T. P. R. Co., 167 U. S. 505.
The Interstate Commerce Act is necessarily exclusive as a rule
or system of procedure for primary examination into the facts,
and in the language of the act for "the execution and enforcement of its provisions." Fourth National Bank v. Franklyn,
120 U. S. 747. United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch, 32; West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Call Pub. Co., 181 U. S. 92, distinguished.
II. The Interstate Commerce Act makes special provisions for
the remedy by injunction, and such remedy in cases like the
present can only be obtained through a previous investigation
by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Sections 13 to 16, inclusive, provide a complete plan of procedure, in cases like the present, and in terms and purpose are
utterly inconsistent with the right of the United States to bring
or maintain the present bill.
Before the amendment to ยง 16 giving the right of recovery
at law there existed only the right of equitable relief. .)Jalcoon
v. C. & -. W.F . Co., 3 1. C. R. 715.
Hitherto uniform course of procedure in cases of this character
is against the right to maintain the present suit.
An examination of the whole course of the Interstate Commerce Commission will disclose that they have in every single
instance, excepting in the case at bar, pursued the course so
clearly defined by the act, and it is manifest that the commission itself recognizes the procedure we insist upon here. _1.C.
C. v. _
. P. Co., 74 Fed. Rep. 70; 5 1. C. R. 650; 1. C. C.
v. . &_. R. Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 409; 5 I. C. R. 657. The
procedure contended for here is recognized as a condition precedent to equitable relief. Swift & Co. v. P. & R. R. Co., 58
Fed. Rep. 858; 4 I. C. R. 633, and Swift & Co. v. P. & R. P.
Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 59.
These decisions are fatal to the present suit. Also see State
v. R. P. Co., 17 Neb. 647; 1 C. C. v. Ala. X1.R. Co., 168

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellant.

189 U. S.

16T 1.. S.
U. S. 1_4,; . C. C. V. C. LW. 0. &8 7. P. R. Co.,
-. C. C.,
v.
Co.
4:95-506, and cases cited; Texas Pacific R.
162 U. S. 204.
present proBy reason of its inequality and injustice, the
right excedure, if sustained, would deprive the carrier of the
See
etc.
pressly given to "desist" or make "reparation,"
Judge Hook's decision not yet reported in 1randerslice-Lynde
Circuit
Co. v. Mo. 1P. R. Co., January 7, 1902, United States
Court, Kansas.
in the
Ill. Section 12, upon which the suit here is alleged
to bring
bill to be grounded, does not authorize complainants
same.
the
or the courts to bear
the
The controversy set forth in the bill-namely, whether
billthe
in
alleged
as
rates complained of are discriminatory,
the deis legal and not equitable in its nature, and entitles
to
Constitution,
the
to
fendant, under the Seventh Amendment
or
change
to
attempt
not
does
a trial by jury. Said section 12
to
or
equity,
in
Courts
enlarge the jurisdiction of the Circuit
determine
to
bill,
present
authorize a bill in equity, such as the
either in
the reasonableness of rates or discrimination in rates,
commission,
the
of
the name of the United States or in that
either genand the Circuit Court in equity has no jurisdiction,
particuthe
over
erally or under the Interstate Commerce Act,
law by
at
lar controversy presented by the bill. The remedy
action or by mandamus is adequate.
in the
IV. There is no remedy in equity for the case stated
equity
bill: The Interstate Commerce Act confers no general
original bill in equity
jurisdiction; on the contrary a resort to an
as to remedies;
is excluded by the special provisions of the act
adequate.
is
mandamus
the remedy by
of an express
It is an indisputable proposition, in the absence
the proper remedy
statute, that remedy by bill in equity is not
public duties preof
corporation
a
by
to enforce the performance
penal statinjunction
by
enforce
to
scribed by law, and especially
2 JohnCompany,
Insurance
Utica
utes. Attorney General v.
See,Kent.
Chancellor
by
son's Chancery Rep. 371, decided
358;
Johns.
15
warranto),
(quo
also, case of People v. amie
waarranto);
Uommonwealth v. Bank, 28 IPennsylvania, 389 (quo

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

279

Argument for Appellant.

p. 379 (same matter in equity). Citing and distinguishing, Attorney Generalv. Railroad Comaies, 35 Wisconsin, 425, 1874.
The Supreme Court of the United States has always maintained the distinction between mandamus and relief in equity.
Their respective functions are distinct. Thus, mandamus and
not a bill in equity lies to compel municipalities to levy taxes
according to their contract duty. Valkley v. .Xuscatine, 19
Wall. 167; Heine v. Levee Commissioners, 19 Wall. 655; Bark,ley v. Levee Commissioners, 93 U. S. 258; Thompson v. Allen
County, 115 U. S. 550; Rosenbaum v. Bauer, 120 U3. S. 450;
Smith v. Bourbon County, 127 U. S. 105; Butterworth v. United
States, 112 U. S. 50.
The remedy to compel performance of public duty by corporations is by mandamus and not in equity. The principle is elementary. It is indeed fundamental. To those who recall the
nature and extent of the superintending jurisdiction of the
Queen's Bench over all public bodies and corporations, exercised
largely by mandamus, and in connection with this the historical
development of equity as a supplement and aid to law where
the legal remedies were inadequate, the principle is extremely
clear. Re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200, where the general subject is
fully considered; Hannewinkle v. Georgetown, 15 Wall. 475;
Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108; many cases, Federal and state,
are cited in Dillon, Munic. Corp. (4th ed.) sees. 826, 906-908.
That the remedy in this case by mandamus is adequate is demonstrable. In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, distinguished.
V. The Interstate Commerce Act as construed by the courts,
having conferred upon carriers the sole power of making rates,
in the absence of any provisions by Congress fixing interstate
rates, and it having made the duty of the carriers in making
such rates to take into consideration all of the circumstances
and conditions, similar and dissimilar, the schedule or schedules
so made are presumptively lawful, and the naked allegation
and charge in the bill that such rates are unreasonable and
discriminative, or that there is an undue prejudice under
similar circumstances and conditions, is not sufficient either to
constitute a cause of action or to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction in equity to originally hear and determine the validity

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Appellee.

189 U. S.

of the rates thus fixed. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. I C. C.,
162 U. S. 197; 1. C. . v. Ala. XM.R. Co., 168 U. S. 144; C.
N. 0. c T. P. R. Co. v. I . C., 162 U. S. 184-197; T. & P.
R. v. I. C. C., 162 U. S. 197-255; 1. C. C. v. Ala. C. X.2P.
Co., 74 Fed. Rep. 715; I. C. C. v. Ca N. 0. c C. Co. 167,
U. S. 480; Parsons v. C. & 1Y. I. R. Co., 167 U. 447; High
on Injunctions, old ed. ยง 526.
.Mrg. I. C. Perry, with whom M1r. Assistant Attorney General Beck was on the brief, for appellee.
I. The demurrer admits a violation of the law.
II. The purpose of the act was to compel equality of treatment,
to provide a new remedy and preserve all existing remedies.
Interstate Oommreece Commission v. Railway, 1671 U. S. 419.
III. Proceedings before the commission are not exclusive of
other remedies. State ex rel. .itatoon v. Railroad,17 Nebraska,
648; State ex rel. v. Teleplone Co., 17 Nebraska, 126; Lowry v.
Railroad,46 Fed. Rep. 86; Railroad v. Railroad,41 Fed. Rep.
771; Vincent v. Railroad, 49 Illinois, 33; Sutherland Stat.
Const. sec. 202; S'mit/ v. Stevens, 10 Wall. 321; United States
v. County of .[acon, 99 U. S. 590; _31ayor of iNashville v. Railway, 19 Wall. 475; Thtomas v. West Jersey . Co., 101 U. S. 52;
South v. -Maryland,18 Hun, 402; -Hearnev. Insurance Co., 20
Wall. 493;.Amy v. City of Salina, 12 Fed. Rep. 414; Oregon
Short Eine v. R. R. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 465 ; Osborne v. Railroad,
48 Fed. Rep. 49 ; S. C., 52 Fed. Rep. 912; Railway v. Goodrich,
149 IU. S. 680; .Hntuchy Bridge Co. v. R. P. Co., 37 Fed.
Rep. 565; 1f..ight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512; Attorney
General v. Railroad Companies,35 Wisconsin, 425; Coal Company v. Coal Company, 88 Am. Dec. 537 (note); 2 Morawetz on
Corporations, sec. 1132; Cum berland Valley P. R.'s App., 62
Penn. St. 227; Sparhawk v. Railroad,54 Penn. St. 421; State
ex rel. v. Saline County Court, 51 Missouri, 350; State ecx rel.
v. Calloway County, 51 Missouri, 395; High on Injunctions,
secs. 1303, 1304, 1554; interstateCommerce Commission v. Railway, 167 U. S. 479.
IV. Even if the commission has exclusive original jurisdiction of complaints made by individuals, the rule does not ap-

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

281

Argument for Appellee.

ply to the government. Savings Bank v. United States, 19
Wall. 239; Swearingen, v. United States, 11 Gill & J. 373; Coinmonwealth v. Baldwin, 1 Watts, 54; United States v. HUoar, 2
Mason, 314; People v. St. Louis, 5 Gilman, 351; _fn re Debs,
158 U. S. 564.
V. Section 12 specially authorizes this suit. Sutherland Stat.
Const. sec. 240; Wilkinson v. -Leland,2 Pet. 627, 632.
VI. Remedies summarized.
VII. Cases in which mandatory injunctions have been granted.
Great fforth. 1. P. Co. v. P. P. Co., 1 Coll. 507; Earlv. G. Nf.
P. R. Co., 10 Hare, 664; Corning v. Troy Pail. Co., 40 N. Y.
391; Storer v. Great TV . PR. Co., 2 Y. & C. 48; Wilson v.
Furnace Co., L. R. 9 Eq. 28; Sanderson v. Uockermouth Co., 11
Beav. 497; Great .ior. Co. v. .Xanchester Co., 5 De G. & S. 138;
Green v. West C. Co., L. R. 13 Eq. 44; Hood v. -. E. Co., L.
R. 8 Eq. 666, on appeal; Commonwealth v. Eastern, 103 Massachusetts, 259; Harris v. Cockerrmouth Co., 3 C. B. N. S. 693;
.fariot v. _ondon Co., 1 0. B. N. S. 489; '7incent v. C. & A.
P. P. Co., 49 Illinois, 37; -DistrictAttorney v. By. Co., 16 Gray,
442; Atty. Gen. v. -Boston Whaqf Co., 12 Gray, 553; Atty.
Gem. v. Zee Co., 104 Massachusetts, 244; Atty. Gen. v. Cokoes
Co., 6 Paige, 133; Atty. Gen. v. P. PR. Co., 1 Stock. 526; Commonwealth v. P. P., 24 Penn. St. 159; Georgetown v. Canal
Co., 12 Pet. 98; Atty. Gem. v. Street Py. Co., 14 Grant (V. 0.)
Oh. 673; Commonwealth v. By. Co., 24 Penn. St. 159; Atty.
Gen. v. -By. Co., 1 D. R. & S. M. 154, 161, 162; Atty. Gen. v.
.Leicester,7 Beav. 176.
VIII. Equity is equal to every emergency. 2 Red. on Rail.
sec. 205; Taylor v. Simon, 4 Myl. & C. 14; Jf9ore v. _italachy,
1 Myl. & 0. 559; Wolworth v. Holt, 4 M-yl. & C. 619-635;
3iunn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Chicago &c. By. Co. v. By.
Co., 47 Fed. Rep. 24; Gay v. United States, 138 U. S. 1; Atty.
Gen. v. PR. R. Companies, 35 Wisconsin, 425.
IX. That there may be a remedy at law to persons for damages is no defence to this suit. Atty. Gen. v. P. R. Cos., supra;
United States v. Baker, 1 Paine, 156; 12 United States Digest
(first series), p. 745.
X. The bill does not plead conclusions of law. The argu-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

ment that the traffic between St. Louis and Omaha, and between St. Louis and Wichita was conducted under similar circumstances and conditions is one of fact, and not of law.
Com mission v. Railway, 168 U. S. 144; Daniell's Chan. P1. &
Fr. vol. 1, 6th Am. ed., p. 369; Story Equity Pl. sec. 253;
Cincinati,I. 0. & T. P. R. Co. v. -nterstate Commerce Comgnission, 162 U. S. 194; Interstate Commerce Commission, v.
.Alabama .X d. R. Co., 168 T. S. 144; Lou isville & .T. R. Co.
v. Beidmer, 175 U. S. 648.
XI. Although strictly speaking, there is no national common
law, and even if carriers have the right at their own risk to
make rates which are presumptively lawful, yet these facts do
not affect this case. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Ry.,
168 U. S. 144.
MR. JUSTIcE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The violation of the act to regulate commerce, complained
of in the amended bill, was an asserted discrimination between
localities by a common carrier subject to the act, averred to
operate an unjust preference or advantage to one locality over
another. The right to bring the suit was expressly rested upon
a request made by the Interstate Commerce Commission to do
so, in order to compel compliance with the provisions of the
act to regulate commerce relating to the matters complained
of in the bill.
Bearing in mind that, prior to the request of the commission
upon which the suit was brought, no hearing was had before
the commission concerning the matters of fact complained of,
and therefore no finding of fact whatever was made by the
commission, and it had issued no order to the carrier to desist
from any violation of the law found to exist, after opportunity
afforded to it to defend, the question for decision is whether,
under such circumstances, the law officers of the United States
at the request of the commission were authorized to institute
this suit?
Testing this question by the law which was in force at the
time when the suit was begun and when it was decided below,

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

283

Opinion of the Court.

we are of the opinion that the authority to bring the suit did
not exist.
But this is not the case under the law as it now exists, since
power to prosecute a suit like the one now under consideration
is expressly conferred by an act of Congress adopted since this
cause was argued at bar, that is, the act "To further regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the States," approved February 19, 1903. By section third of that act it is
provided:
"That whenever the Interstate Commerce Commission shall
have reasonable ground for belief that any common carrier is
engaged in the carriage of passengers or freight traffic between
given points at less than the published rates on file, or is committing any discrimination forbidden by law, a petition may
be presented alleging such facts to the Circuit Court of the
United States sitting in equity having jurisdiction; and when
the act complained of is alleged to have been committed or is
being committed in part in more than one judicial district or
State, it may be dealt with, inquired of, tried, and determined
in either such judicial district or State, whereupon it shall be
the duty of the court summarily to inquire into the circumstances, upon such notice and in such manner as the court shall
direct and without the formal pleadings and proceedings appli"
cable to ordinary suits in equity.
And the same section moreover provides as follows:
"It shall be the duty of the several district attorneys of the
United States, whenever the Attorney General shall direct,
either of his own motion or upon the request of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, to institute and prosecute such proceedings, and the proceedings provided for by this act shall
not preclude the bringing of suit for the recovery of damages
by any party injured, or any other action provided by said act
approved February fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven,
entitled An act to regulate commerce and the acts amendatory
thereof."
Although by the fourth section of the act conflicting laws
are repealed, it is provided "but such repeal shall not affect
causes now pending nor rights which have already accrued, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICES BREWER and HARLAN, dissenting.

189 U. S.

such causes shall be prosecuted to a conclusion and such rights
enforced in a manner heretofore provided by law [italics ours]
and as modified by the provisions of this act." We think the
purpose of the latter provision was to cause the new remedies
which the statute created to be applicable as far as possible to
pending and undetermined proceedings brought, prior to the
passage of the act, to enforce the provisions of the act to regulate commerce. In the nature of things it cannot be ascertained
from the record whether the railroad company now exacts the
rates complained of as being discriminatory and which it was
the purpose of the suit to correct ; but if it does, of course the
power to question the legality of such rates by a suit in equity,
brought like the one now here, clearly exists. Under these
conditions we think the ends of justice will best be served by
reversing the decrees below and remanding the cause to the
Circuit Court for such further proceedings as may be consistent
with the act to regulate commerce as originally enacted and as
subsequently amended, especially with reference to the powers
conferred and duties imposed by the act of Congress approved
February 19, 1903, heretofore referred to.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Afppeals is reversed; the
decree of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and the cause
is remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

Mnr. Jus'IcE BRzOWN concurs in the result.
MR.
lALAN,

JUSTIOE BREWER,

with whom concurred MR.

JUSTICE

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in either the opinion or the judgment
in this case.
I think there was no final decree in the Circuit Court, and
that, therefore, the Court of Appeals should have dismissed
the appeal. After the cause had been once put in issue by
bill, answer and replication, a stipulation was filed as follows:
"Whereas, after joining issue upon the pleadings heretofore
filed in the above-entitled suit, to wit, the original bill of complaint, the demurrer thereto, the original answer, the amended

M1ISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
189

U. S.

285

JUSTICEs BREWER and HARLAN, dissenting.

answer and the replication thereto, it has been determined by
all of the parties to, and all of the parties interested in said suit
that it is desirable and best that the questions of law arising
upon the bill of complaint as amended and a demurrer thereto
be first finally adjudicated and put at rest by the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the United States and the Supreme Court of the
United States;
"Now, therefore, it is hereby agreed and stipulated by and
between the above-named complainants, by their solicitors,
W. C. Perry and M. Cliggitt, and the above-named defendant,
by its solicitors, J. H. Richards and C. E. Benton, that said
complainants shall file an amended bill of complaint in said
suit, to which said defendant shall file a demurrer, and that, if
the court before which said cause is now pending shall overrule
said demurrer and allow the relief prayed for in said amended
bill of complaint, then said defendant shall proceed to appeal
said cause in due course, and that the party, complainants or
defendant, against which said Circuit Court of Appeals shall
decide adversely, shall, if said party so desires, in due course
appeal said cause for final determination to the Supreme Court
of the United States.
"And it is further hereby agreed and stipulated that pending
said appeal and all the procedure incident thereto the decree
and order of said courts, whether it be said Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Kansas, or said Circuit
Court of Appeals, or said Supreme Court of the United States,
if adverse to said defendant, allowing and decreeing the reliefs
and remedies prayed for in said amended bill of complaint,
shall be suspended and not enforced against said defendant
The Missouri Pacific Railway Company, and when a decision
has been rendered in said suit by said Circuit Court of Appeals,
or by the Supreme.Court of the United States, if the cause is
taken to that court, then it is further hereby agreed and stipulated that the decision and judgment of either or both of said
courts, if adverse to said defendant The Missouri Pacific Railway Company, shall be vacated, set aside and annulled and
shall not be regarded as of any force or effect against said defendant The -Missouri Pacific Railway Company except so far

OCTOBER TERMT,

1902.

JUSTICES BREWER and HARLAN, dissenting.

189 U. S.

as holding the amended bill to be sufficient, but that said The
iMissouri Pacific Railway Company shall have the right and
shall be permitted to file an answer in said suit, to which said
complainants The United States of America shall in due course
file a replication thereto, and the issues shall be duly joined
and the cause proceed to hearing and determination upon its
merits in due course, the intention of this agreement being that
the proceedings had upon the demurrer to said amended bill
of complaint and the proposed appeal of said suit to a higher
court shall in no manner prejudice the right of said defendant
to a trial of said suit upon its merits.
"Dated this 16th day of July, 1897.
"W. C. PERRY,
" MORIIS C. CLIGG17r,

"Solicitorsfor Conplainant."
On an application made by the complainant, supported by
the affidavit of its solicitor, stating that the defendant consented thereto, an order was entered giving the complainant
leave to file an amended bill, and also to the defendant, with
consent of the complainant, like leave to file a demurrer. An
amended bill of complaint and a demurrer thereto were filed,
the demurrer was sustained and, the defendant electing to stand
on its demurrer, a decree was entered in behalf of the comA transcript before us shows that all this, from
plainant.
the filing of the stipulation to the entering of the decree,
took place on the same day, to wit, July 19. Obviously all
subsequently thereto was done in pursuance of the stipulation.
That the stipulation was not signed by the solicitors for the
defendant is immaterial, as it was for its benefit alone. In the
brief for the government in this court, after a statement of
preliminary proceedings, it is said:
"It being manifest that the great volume of testimony would
have to be taken, and as the defendant had raised the serious
question whether the United States could maintain the suit, or
had the right, in its own name, and without a preliminary
hearing before the Interstate Commerce Commission, to enforce, by injunction, the provisions of the Interstate Commerce

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

JUSTICES BREWER

287

and HARLAx, dissenting.

Act which forbid discrimination, it was thought best to finally
settle that question. Therefore the stipulation on pages 53-54
was entered into. That stipulation provides for the filing of
an amended bill, the levelling of a demurrer thereat, and an
appeal or appeals to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals and to this court. The amended bill was filed (pp. 55-60);
the defendant demurred (p. 61); the court overruled the demurrer, and the defendant, electing to stand on its demurrer,
final decree was entered in favor of the complainant. (pp. 62'73.) "
And in the brief for the defendant and appellant it is in like
manner said:
"After all this, the parties made the stipulation found on
page 53, to the effect that 'it is desirable and best that the
questions of law arising upon the bill of complaint as amended
and a demurrer thereto be first finally adjudicated and put at
rest by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the United States and
the Supreme Court of the United States,' which it was stipulated might be done without prejudice to the right of the defendant ifit were held that the bill was maintainable to a trial
of the suit upon its merits.
"The amended bill was accordingly filed (Record, pp. 55-60);
demurrer thereto was filed (p. 61), and a decree rendered in favor of the complainant."
Now although it may be that the stipulation was not brought
into the record by means of a bill of exceptions, and although
it does not affirmatively appear that the trial court was made
aware of this stipulation, or acted in pursuance thereof, yet as
the railway company brings here a record containing the stipulation, and as it is admitted by counsel for both parties that it was
entered into, and that subsequent proceedings were had in pursuance of its agreements, I think notice should be taken of it
by this court. Indeed, if nothing appeared of record, and
counsel should admit before us that a stipulation had been entered into between the parties in respect to the finality of the
decree, ought we not to act on such admission? Can parties
stipulate that questions of law shall alone be presented to this
court, and that if our decision be one way the case shall there-

OCTOBER TERML,
JUSTICES

1902.

BREWER and HA&RLAX, dissenting.

189 U. S.

after proceed in the trial court for an inquiry and decree upon
the facts ? I know that the statutes of some States permit
the taking of a case to the appellate court upon a ruling made
on a demurrer, but we have always held that the decree or
judgment must be final before we are called upon to review it.
When a case has once been decided by this court no further
proceedings can be had in the trial court except upon our direction, whereas here the parties have stipulated that without
such direction a new trial may be had. In other words, our
decision is not to be final although we affirm the decree. It
seems to me that the decree of the Court of Appeals should be
reversed and the case remanded to that court with directions to
dismiss the appeal.
Upon the merits, also, I dissent. The bill is an original bill
in behalf of the United States, filed under the direction of the
Attorney General, and the fact that the Interstate Commerce
Commission requested him to cause this suit to be instituted
in no manner adds to or affects the question of the government's right to maintain it. The commission was not asking
the Department of Justice to enforce any of its orders, in
which case, as we held in Bast Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia
Railway Company v. Interstate Comanerce Commission, 181
U. S. 1, it would become our duty to examine the proceedings
had before the commission. This is an independent suit instituted by the government, not to carry into effect any orders
of the commission, but to enforce a duty cast upon carriers of
interstate commerce, and the right of the government to maintain such a suit does not depend upon the request of any individual or board. The twenty-second section of the act to
regulate commerce provides that "nothing in this act contained shall in any way abridge or alter the remedies now
existing at common law or by statute, but the provisions of
this act are in addition to such remedies." Every remedy,
therefore, that the government or any individual had to compel the performance by carriers of interstate commerce of their
legal obligations remains unaffected by that act.
We held in In re Debs, 168 U. S.564, that the United States
had a right, even in the absence of a statute specially authoriz-

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
189 U. S.

289

JUSTICES BREWER and HARLAN, dissenting,

ing such action, to come into the Federal courts by an original
bill to restrain parties from obstructing and interfering with
interstate commerce. It seems to me singular that the government can maintain a bill to prevent others from obstructing
and interfering with interstate commerce and yet cannot maintain a bill to compel carriers to fully discharge their duties in
respect to such commerce. Can it be that the government has
power to protect the carriers of interstate commerce and not
power to compel them to discharge their duties?
It is said that this is a suit to compel the carrier to refrain
from discriminating between places; that there was no common
law duty to abstain from such discrimination ; that it is forbidden only by statute. But confessedly it was a common law
duty of a carrier to make no unreasonable charges. It is distinctly averred in the amended bill (Rec. 57, 59) :
"And your orators further aver and show unto your honors
that said defendant has established and for a long time has
maintained and still maintains in force on the line of its railroad
between the city of St. Louis and the city of Wichita rates,
rules and regulations governing all freight traffic between said
cities over the said railroad which are unjust and unreasonable,
in this, that said charges for services rendered by said company
in the transportation of property and freight of each and every
classification between the said city of St. Louis and the city of
Wichita is excessive, exorbitant, unreasonable and unjust to the
extent and amount that such rates and charges exceed the rates
and charges on the line of said defendant's railroad between
the cities of St. Louis and Omaha, all of which is to the great
detriment and hindrance of commerce and trade between the
said cities of St. Louis and Wichita, and between the localities
to which said cities contribute as a supply point, and to the irreparable injury of the public and to the people of the United
States.

"And your orators further aver and show unto your honors
that any schedule rates and freight charges for the various
shipments and classifications hereinbefore set forth between
the said cities of St. Louis and Wichita that are in excess of the
VOL. CLXXXIX-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
JUSTICEs BREWER and HARLAN, dissenting.

189 U. S.

tariff schedules and freight charges for shipments of the like
kind and class of property between the cities of St. Louis and
Omaha are unreasonable, excessive, exorbitant and unjust in
and of themselves, and constitute an unreasonable discrimination against Wichita and the localities tributary thereto and
the people living therein and against persons shipping freight
between the cities of Wichita and St. Louis, and subject such
persons and localities to an unjust and unreasonable prejudice
and disadvantage."
The truth of these allegations is admitted by the demurrer.
The charges for shipments for freight between St. Louis and
Wichita are "unreasonable, excessive, exorbitant and unjust in
and of themselves." Surely here is a disregard of what was at
common law a plain and recognized duty of the carrier.
Further, while at common law a mere difference in the prices
charged by the carrier to two shippers respectively might not
have been forbidden, yet it may well be doubted whether, if
the difference was so great as to amount to an unreasonable
discrimination, the rule would not have been otherwise. In
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio 1. R.,
145 U. S.263, 275, we said:
"Prior to the enactment of the act of February 4, 1887, to
regulate commerce, commonly known as the Interstate Commerce Act, 24 Stat. 379, c. 104, railway traffic in this country
was regulated by the principles of the common law applicable
to common carriers, which demanded little more than that they
should carry for all persons who applied, in the order in which
the goods were delivered at the particular station, and that
their charges for transportation should be reasonable. It was
even doubted whether they were bound to make the same
charge to all persons for the same service, Fitchburg R. 1?. Co.
v. Gage, 12 Gray, 393; Baxendale v. Eastern Counties Railway
Co., 4 C. B. (N. S.) 63; Great Western Ry. Co. v. Sutton, L .R.
4 H. L. 226, 237; Ex parte Benson, 18 S. 0. 38; Johnson v.
PensacolaBy. Co., 16 Florida, 623, though the weight of authority in this country was in favor of an equality of charge to
all persons for similar services."
But beyond this the interstate commerce act itself forbids

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. v. UNITED STATES.
JUSTICES BREWER

and

291

HARLAZN, dissenting.

unjust discrimination, and such discrimination is also clearly
and fully set forth in the bill. Can it be that the government
is powerless to compel the carriers to discharge their statutory
duties? It is nowhere said in the interstate commerce act that
this duty or any other duty prescribed by statute is to be
enforced only through the action of the commission. On the
contrary, as we have seen, it expressly provides that all other
remedies are left unaffected by the act, and a duty cast by statute equally with a common law duty may by the very language
of the act be enforced in any manner known to the law.
Further, the act to regulate commerce, as originally passed,
in section 16, required the district attorneys of the United
States, under the direction of the Attorney General, to prosecute suits to compel carriers to obey the orders of the commission. If all remedies were to be secured only through action
in the first instance by the commission that provision was all
that was necessary, but in the amendatory act of 1889, 25 Stat.
855, there was added in section 12 this clause: "The commission is hereby authorized and required to execute and enforce
the provisions of this act; and, upon the request of the commission, it shall be the duty of any district attorney of the United
States to whom the commission may apply to institute in the
proper court and to prosecute, under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States, all necessary proceedings
for the enforcement of the provisions of this act, and for the
punishment of all violations thereof." Clearly that contemplates just such a case as the present, and when, in the judgment of the commission, it is better that the proceedings should
be had primarily in the courts, it may call upon the legal officers
of the United States to bring the proper actions.
For these reasons I am compelled to dissent, and I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTIE HARLAN concurs in this opinion.

