OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

189 U. S.

WINEBRENNER v. FORNEY.
APPEAL FROMI

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 409. Argued March 6, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

Where there is a seeming contradiction between two clauses in a proclamation opening lands for settlement, the first clause being a special description of a strip of land, and the second being found in a portion of
the proclamation defining the purposes for which the strip is made, the
first clause is entitled to preference.
The strip of land referred to in the President's proclamation of August 19,
1893, "one hundred feet in width around and immediately within the outer
boundaries of the entire tract of country to be opened to settlement," ran
around and immediately within the outer boundaries of the body of
lands opened for settlement, and not around the outer boundaries of the
entire tract specified in the cession and relinquishment of the Cherokee
Indians.

THE appellee holds the govermnent patent to the southwest
quarter of section 19, township 26 north, range 1 east, of the
Indian meridian in Kay County, Oldahoma Territory. The appellant claimed an equitable right to the land and brought this
suit to have the defendant declared a trustee of the title for his
benefit. A demurrer to a second amended petition was sustained by the trial court and a decree entered dismissing the
suit. This decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory, 11 Oklahoma, 565, and from that decision this appeal
was taken. The tract is within that portion of the Cherokee
Outlet opened to settlement by the President's proclamation of
August 19, 1893, and the only question as agreed by counsel on
both sides, is whether appellee was disqualified by reason of being
within prohibited limits on September 16, 1893, the day on which
by the President's proclamation the land was opened for settlement.
Jr.S. 1 Har'isfor appellant.
with him on the brief.

2Xr. J. J. Darlingtonwas

iMr. A. G. C. Bierer for appellee.
him on the brief.

Mr,. Frank Dale was with

WINEBREtNER v. FORNEY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE ]BREWER,

The President's proclamation, after reciting that the Cherokee Nation of Indians had "ceded, conveyed, transferred, relinquished and surrendered all its title, claim and interest of every
kind and character in and to that part of the Indian Territory
bounded on the west by the one hundredth degree (100 °) of west
longitude; on the north by the State of Kansas; on the east by
the ninety-sixth degree (960) of west longitude; and on the south
by the Creek Nation, the Territory of Oklahoma and the Cheyenne and Arapahoe reservation created or defined by executive
order dated August tenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-nine;"
and also that Congress had passed an act authorizing the President of the United States to open to settlement any or all lands
included in such cession not allotted or reserved, declared that
on September 16, 1893, the lands so acquired would be open to
settlement, saving and excepting certain specified tracts and
portions, including in the latter the Osage, the Kansas, the
Ponca, the Otoe and Missouri reservations. The diagram on
the following page shows in a general way the land first above
described as ceded and relinquished by the Cherokee Indians,
the land opened to settlement, and the excepted reservations.
The proclamation declared that the land should be opened to
settlement "under the terms of and subject to all the conditions,
limitations, reservations, and restrictions contained in said agreements, the statutes above specified, the laws of the United
States applicable thereto and the conditions prescribed by this
proclamation." The act of 1893, 2 1 Stat. 640, 643, which is
one of the statutes referred to, contained this provision:
"No person shall be permitted to occupy or enter upon any
of the lands herein referred to, except in the manner prescribed
by the proclamation of the President opening the same to
settlement; and any person otherwise occupying or entering
upon any of said lands shall forfeit all right to acquire any of
said lands. The Secretary of the Interior shall, under the
direction of the President, prescribe rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with this act, for the occupation and settlement of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.

150

Opinion of the Court.

0

0

o

0

189 U. S.

WINEBRENNER v. FORNEY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

said lands, to be incorporated in the proclamation of the President, which shall be issued at least twenty days before the
time fixed for. the opening of said lands."
And in the President's proclamation it was declared:
"Said lands so to be opened as herein proclaimed, shall be
entered upon and occupied only in the manner and under the
provisions following, to wit:
"A strip of land, one hundred feet in width, around and
immediately within the outer boundaries of the entire tract of
country, to be opened to settlement under this proclamation,
is hereby temporarily set apart for the following purposes and
uses, viz. :
"Said strip, the inner boundary of which shall be one hundred feet from the exterior boundary of the country known as
the Cherokee Outlet, shall be opened to occupancy in advance
of the day and hour named for the opening of said country, by
persons expecting and intending to make settlement pursuant
to this proclamation. Such occupancy shall not be regarded
as trespass, or in violation of this proclamation, or of the law
under which it is made; nor shall any settlement rights be
gained thereby."
The defendant was on the day named, September 16, 1893,
within the limits of the Ponca reservation, and from such reservation went into the territory, opened the settlement, and
made his homestead entry.
The contention of the plaintiff is that the strip is to be taken
as extending around the outer boundaries of the entire tract
specified in the cession and relinquishment of the Cherokee
Indians, while the contention of the defendant is that it is to
be considered as simply around the outer boundaries of the
tract opened to settlement. If the contention of the plaintiff
is correct the strip on the north, west and south would be immediately contiguous to the land opened to settlement, while
on the east it would be a distance of many miles therefrom.
If the contention of the defendant is correct it would on all
sides be contiguous to such land. There is a manifest equity in
the latter contention, especially when we consider the great
multitude (according to reports 100,000 and over) who at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

appointed time surrounded this tract with a view of entering
the same and obtaining homesteads. And such we think is
the true construction of the proclamation. The strip is described as " around and immediately within the outer boundaries of the entire tract of country, to be opened to settlement
under this proclamation." If this were all there would be no
doubt. The doubt arises from subsequent words, "said strip,
the inner boundary of which shall be 100 feet from the exterior boundary of the country known as the Cherokee Outlet."
It is contended that what was known as the Cherokee Outlet
extended from the ninety-sixth to the one hundredth degree of
longitude and included the three or four Indian reservations
east of the tract opened to settlement. Undoubtedly this entire
tract was originally the Cherokee Outlet. Ch]erokee 3ation v.
Journeycake, 155 U. S. 196, 206, and treaties cited. It was
originally set apart for the use of the Cherokees as a sort of
appurtenance to the 7,000,000 acres specifically granted as
their reservation. Subsequently, by various treaties, portions
of it were withdrawn from the Cherokees' possession and set
apart as reservations for the various tribes named. Still the
entire territory was commonly known as the Cherokee Outlet,
and was referred to as such in the act of 1893, which ratified
the settlement and relinquishment by the Cherokees and authorized the opening to settlement of such portions of the land
so ceded and relinquished as the President should determine.
There is thus a seeming contradiction between the two clauses
of the proclamation. But the first is used in special description of the strip, while the second clause is found in that portion of the proclamation which defines the purposes for which
the strip is to be used. As between the two clauses, therefore,
the first is entitled to preference, as at that time the attention
of the writer must be supposed to have been directed to the
location of the strip. But there are other reasons which make
more clear the true construction. In addition to the equity
referred to heretofore these matters may be noticed: If the
strip was within the tract to be opened to settlement it was
public land, and the President might well set that apart for
temporary occupancy by those who were designing to go into

WINEBRENNER v. FORNEY.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the body of lands to be opened to settlement, whereas if the
contention of the plaintiff is correct the President would be
setting apart a strip 100 feet in width through lands reserved
to certain Indian tribes and allowing a temporary occupancy
thereof. We do not mean to deny the power of the President,
but it is more reasonable to suppose that he was setting apart
a strip of the public domain than a strip of Indian reservations
for such temporary occupancy. Further, the last sentence in
the paragraph from which the second clause is taken says that
the occupancy of the strip "shall not be regarded as trespass,
or in violation of this proclamation, or of the law under which
it is made; nor shall any settlement rights be gained thereby"
-language which is apt if it described a portion of the larger
body of the public domain to be opened to settlement and not
apt if it referred to a portion of Indian reservations. The
significance of the description "around and immediately within
the outer boundaries of the entire tract of country, to be
opened to settlement," is found in the purpose to prevent any
one from being upon a railroad right of way running through
the tract or upon any of the separate quarter sections or sections reserved by the proclamation for school and county purposes within the limits of the entire body. Smith v. Townsend,
148 U. S. 490; Payne v. Robertson, 169 U. S.323.
Our conclusions, therefore, are that the contention of the defendant is correct, and that thestrip was one which ran around
and immediately within the outer boundaries of the entire body
of lands opened to settlement.
Such conclusion is in accord with the rulings of the Land
Department. It is true that at or about the time of the opening of the land to settlement there were one or two contradictory orders and dispatches sent out from that department,
but these were simply responses to requests for information
and made without any hearing from parties interested adversely, and it is also true that in the subsequent consideration
of the question there were some differences of opinion between
successive Secretaries of the Interior, but the final conclusions
were in harmony with the views we have expressed. Cagle v.
.Mendenhall, 20 L. D. 446 ; 26 L. D. 177 ; Welch v. Butler, 21

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

L. ID.369; Brady v. Williams, 23 L. ]D. 533; 25 L. D. 55; 25
L. D. 402.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Okdahama is
-Afflrmed.
M.R. JuSTIoE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE PE0RHAm dissented.

SAWYER v. PIPER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TiE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 225. Argued April 6, 7, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

The mere averment of the existence of a Federal question is not sufficient
to give this court jurisdiction, but as held in Hamblin v. Mestern Land
Company, 147 U. S. 531, a real, and nor a fictitious, Federal question is
essential to the jurisdiction of this court over the .judgments of state
courts. Where the only Federal question alleged is that the refusal of the
state court to allow the plaintiff in error to file a supplementary answer
in a suit, in which foreclosure and sale had been decreed and sustained
by the highest court of the State, was a taking of property without due
process of law, and a denial of the equal protection of the laws, and the
trial court does not appear to have abused its discretion, there is no real
Federal question involved and the writ of error will be dismissed.

ON April 27, 1897, Daniel S. Piper, the defendant in error,
commenced a suit in the District Court of Steele County, MAlinnesota, against the plaintiffs in error and L. C. Woodman. The
complaint alleged the ownership by the Sawyers of a tract containing 790 acres, upon which were several mortgages, all of
them fully set forth and all belonging to the plaintiff. It also
averred an agreement, made on February 19, 1895, by the terms
of which the Sawyers were to pay plaintiff the sum of $20,400,
with, in addition, monthly payments of $100 ; that the Sawyers
were to convey the land to plaintiff; that he should execute a
deed to them, the deed to be placed in escrow in the hands of
Woodman, the other defendant, and to be delivered to them
on full payment of the sums named ; with a proviso that upon

