UNION & PLANTERS' BANK v. MEMPHIS.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

test, we should do nothing more than reverse the decree below
and remand the cause, and as such a judgment would be ineffectual, we must decline to intimate any opinion on the subject.
"The duty of this court, as of every other judicial tribunal,
is to decide actual controversies by a judgment which can be
carried into effect, and not to give opinions upon moot questions or abstract propositions, or to declare principles or rules
of law which cannot affect the matter in issue in the case before it. It necessarily follows that when, pending an appeal
from the judgment of a lower court, and without any fault of
the defendant, an event occurs which renders it impossible for
this court, if it should decide the case in favor of the plaintiff,
to grant him any effectual relief whatever, the court will not
proceed to a formal judgment, but will dismiss the appeal."
Mr. Justice Gray, XMills v. G'reen, 159 U. S. 651, 653.
We think this writ of error comes within the rule thus declared, and it is therefore
Dismissed without costs to eitherparty.

UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK v. MEMPHIS.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT AND FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Nos. 67, 221.

Submitted

farch 20, 1903.-Decided April 13, 1903.

Where diversity of citizenship does not exist and the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court rests solely on the ground that the cause of action arose
under the Constitution of the United States, anappeal lies directly to this
court, under section 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891, and if an appeal
should be presented to the Circuit Court of Appea's and there go to
decree, this court will reverse the decree, not on the merits, but by reason
of want of jurisdiction in that court. It is not the intention of the
Judiciary Act of 1891 to allow two appeals in cases of that description.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

The doctrine of res judicata under the decisions of the highest court of
Tennessee is not applicable to taxes for years other than those under
consideration in the particular case. The effect of a prior judgment of
a state court as res judicata is a question of state, and not of Federal,
law.
Where a former judgment pleaded has no force or effect in the state courts
of Tennessee as exempting a corporation from certain taxes other than as
a bar to the identical taxes litigated in that suit, the courts of the United
States can accord it no greater efficacy.

TEE Union and Planters' Bank of Memphis was incorporated
under a charter granted by the General Assembly of the State
of Tennessee in 1858, which contained the following provision:
"That said company shall pay an annual tax of one half of one
per cent on each share of stock subscribed, which shall be in
lieu of all other taxes." The corporation was located in the
city of M emphis, Shelby County, Tennessee, and that city, pursuant to an act of the legislature of Tennessee, assessed an ad
valorem tax for the year 1899, for municipal purposes, on the
capital stock of the bank. The bank, thereupon, filed its bill
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western Division of the Western District of Tennessee, in which it was alleged that the law under which the assessment was made finpaired the obligation of the contract created by the abovequoted clause of the charter. The bill further averred that in
a former litigation between the bank and the city, wherein it
was sought to enforce a municipal assessment of taxes on the
capital stock of the bank for the years 1888, 1889 and 1890, it
was adjudged by the Supreme Court of Tennessee that by the
provision aforesaid the capital stock of the corporation was exempt from all general taxation. The record and judgment in
that suit were set out in full, and pleaded as a final judicial determination of the bank's exemption from the payment of ad
valorerm taxes on its capital stock; and it was averred that the
judgment so pleaded was based on the identical claim of exemption now asserted, and on identically the same facts and conditions under which this assessment was made.
The prayer was that the assessment be cancelled and complainant be declared to be exempt from the payment to the city
of ad valorem taxes on its capital stock.

UNION & PLANTERS' BANK v. MEMPHIS.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Defendants demurred, and the demurrer was sustained and
the bill dismissed, November 6, 1900, whereupon complainant
prayed and perfected an appeal to, and also took a writ of error
from, the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit, and the case was docketed there on or about November 27, 1900.
On February 11, 1901, complainant prayed and was granted
an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court directly to this
court, the record was filed here, March 23, 1901, and the case
is now No. 67.
The case in the Circuit Court of Appeals was heard June 10,
1901, and the decree below was affirmed October 21, 1901.
111 Fed. Rep. 561. Thereupon complainant, appellant in that
court, prosecuted an appeal from its decree to this court, and
the case was docketed here January 13, 1902, and is now
No. 221.
Both cases were submitted, as one case, on printed briefs.
.lr.
lant.

William It. Carrolland .M. Tim E. Cooper for appel-

Xr. Luke E. Wright and Mr. John H. Watkins for appellees.
after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

Diversity of citizenship did not exist, and the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court rested solely on the ground that the cause of
action arose under the Constitution of the United States. The
appeal lay directly to this court under section five of the
Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, and not to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. American Sugar Refj.ing Company v. 2ew
Orleans, 181 U. S. 277. Nevertheless an appeal having been
prosecuted to the latter court and having there gone to decree,
an appeal was allowed to this court because the judgment was
not made final in that court by section six of the act. But the
case being here, and the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court having

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

depended on the sole ground that it arose under the Constitution, we are constrained to reverse the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, not on the merits, but by reason of the want
of jurisdiction in that court. If this were not so, the right to
two appeals would exist in every similar case notwithstanding,
as we have repeatedly held, that such was not the intention of
the act. Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359; Loeb v. Trustees,
179 U. S. 472; American Sugar .Regining Company v. .Aew
Orleans, supra.
In Pullman's Palace Car Company v. Central Transportation Company, 171 U. S. 138, an appeal was taken to this court
and also to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and a motion was
made in each court to dismiss the appeal, whereupon, by reason
of the circumstances, we granted a writ of certiorari and
brought up the record from the latter court before it had proceeded to decree. The question as to which was the correct
route to reach this court became immaterial, and we disposed
of the case on its merits. But in the present case the Circuit
Court of Appeals went to decree, and we are obliged to deal
with the appeal therefrom, in doing which the jurisdiction of
that court necessarily comes under review.
The questions on the merits are, however, presented for disposition on the direct appeal from the Circuit Court.
In Shelby County v. Union and Platers' Bank, 161 U. S.
149, (1895,) it was decided that the capital stock of the bank
was not exempt from ad valorem taxation by the provision of
the charter in question and was liable to be taxed as the State
might determine. Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S.
134.
But the bank objects that notwithstanding this court has thus
held that the exemption asserted does not exist, it must nevertheless be recognized, in this case, as existing, because it was so
determined by the judgment pleaded as res judicata. The
judgment thus relied on as a bar to this assessment is reported
in -Memp is v. Union and Planters'Bank, 91 Tennessee, 546,
(1892,) which involved the assessment of municipal taxes, for
the years 1887 to 1891 inclusive, on the capital stock of the
bank, and a privilege tax for the years 1889, 1890 and 1891.

UNION & PLANTERS' BANK v. MEMPHIS.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of Tennessee there held in deference to the
supposed scope of the decisions of this court in Farringtonv.
Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, (1877,) and in Bank v. Tennessee, 104
U. S. 493, (1881,) that the bank was exempted by the charter
from being assessed by the State, county, or municipality, for
any taxes except as specified.
In Bank v. .Menphis, 101 Tennessee, 154, (1898,) the conclusion announced in Shelby County v. Bank, 161 U. S. 149, was
followed, and it was held to be the settled rule in Tennessee
that the plea of resjudicata is only applicable to the taxes actually in litigation, and is not conclusive in respect to taxes assessed for other and subsequent years. State v. Bank, 95 Tennessee, 221, 231.
As the judgment relied on as resjudicata was not so regarded
in Shelby County v. Bank, it could not be properly so regarded
in the present case; but, apart from that, it is enough that in
Tennessee the doctrine of resjudicata is not applicable to taxes
for years other than those under consideration in the particular
case, inasmuch as what effect a judgment of a state court shall
have as res judicata is a question of state or local law, and the
taxes involved in this suit are taxes for years other than those
Fire and .Marine
involved in the prior adjudication. Phiix
Insurance Company v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174.
In New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, referred to
by appellant's counsel, no claim was made that the judgment
relied on would not have been res judicata in the state courts,
and attention was particularly called to the fact that the rule
in Louisiana was in accord with the conception of res jadlcata
expounded in that case.
As the judgment pleaded had no force or effect in the Tennessee state courts other than as a bar to the identical taxes
litigated in the suit, the courts of the United States can accord
it no greater efficacy. Cooper v. Newell, 173 U. S. 555; Mietcalf v. Vatertown, 153 U. S. 671; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co.
v. Wiggins Fer'y Co., 108 U. S. 8; Rev. Stat. ยง 905.
The litigation over the alleged exemption has been protracted,
and many decisions have been rendered in this court and in the
highest tribunal of Tennessee in respect of it. They are re-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

viewed by Lurton, J., in the Circuit Court of Appeals, 111 Fed.
Rep. 561.
Decree of the Circuit Court in Ho. 67 afirmed.
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in No. 221 reversed
with a direction to dismiss the apeal and writ of error.

MEXICAN CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY, LIMITED,
v. DUTHIE.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 336.

Submitted March 23, 1903-Decided April 13, 1903.

Under section 954, Rev. Stat., the Circuit Court has power in its discretion
to allow plaintiff to amend his petition after judgment has been entered
in his favor, but while the court still has control of the record, and it is
not an abuse of such discretion to permit an amendment setting up plaintiff's citizenship, the fact being established and residence only having

been pleaded, and where it appears that had the amendment not been
made as it was the Circuit Court of Appeals would have been constrained
to reverse and remand with leave to make the amendment.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

X.r. Aldis B. Browne, .Mr. Alexander Britton and .M,. Eben
Richards for plaintiff in error.
3[r. Leigh Clark for defendant in error.
MR. CnEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Duthie brought suit for the recovery of damages for personal
injuries in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas against the Mexican Central Railway Company, Limited; and in his original complaint averred
that he "resides in El Paso, in El Paso County, State of Texas,

