PARDEE v. ALDRIDGE.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Carolina, in case it should be held to exclude negroes from the
jury. But the ground of the motion was not that negroes
were excluded by an invalid constitutional provision, but that
they were excluded in the administration of the law, although
they were qualified under it to serve. The case involves questions of the gravest character, but we must deal with it according to the record, and the record discloses no wrong.
Judgment afirned.
Mn. JUSTICE MCKENNA took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this case.

PARDEE v. ALDRIDGE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 137. Argued January 19, 20, 1903.-Decided March 16, 1903.

Where a railroad company mortgages its road including all appurtenances
and appendages of said railroad, and the property of said company now
acquired, or which may be acquired, used for and pertaining to the operation of said railroad, a sale under such mortgage does not include property acquired by the company after the mortgage for the purpose of subdivision and sale; and it is a question for a jury to determine, whether
the land so purchased was to be used for and pertaining to the operation
of the railroad or not.
A suit to foreclose a mortgage is not a proceeding in rem which will bind
persons who are not parties thereto, and the fact that the decree covered
the property in question does not conclude strangers to the suit.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

,A&. .Maxwell _Evarts for, plaintiffs in error.
was on the brief.

.i,.

R. S. Lovett

.Mr. IF. J. .Moroney for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

HOL-ES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of trespass to try title to land brought by

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Aldridge and others, trustees, against Pardee and others, the
plaintiffs in error. The only parcels here in controversy are
two tracts, known as the Hughes and Slaughter tract and the
Mays tract. Both parties claim title under the Texas Trunk
Railroad Company. Pardee claims under the foreclosure of
a mortgage made by the railroad company and some incidental
proceedings. Aldridge claims under a sale outside of the mortgage. The question in the case is whether the mortgage embraced these tracts.
Although it may not be necessary, we will state the title on
each side a little more in detail before discussing the questions
of law. On March 22, 1880, the Texas Trunk Railroad Company mortgaged its road, "including all appurtenances and
appendages of said railroad, and the property of said company
now acquired or which may be acquired, in the State of Texas,
used for and pertaining to the operation of said railroad."
This was to secure bonds. Later in the same year, although
the deed was dated earlier, the Hughes and Slaughter tract
was conveyed to the railroad. The Mays tract was conveyed
the next year. On January 31, 1883, there was a decree of
foreclosure on the mortgage in the United States Circuit Court,
and there was a sale on the first of the following May. The
purchasers organized a new company, under the old charter,
but a distinct organization, as permitted by the local law. In
1885 the property of the second company was sold by the
sheriff, on execution following a judgment in the state court,
and also by the United States marshal, under an order of sale
for failure to pay certain sums as provided in the original foreclosure proceedings. The same persons purchased at both sales
and organized a third company, still under the old charter.
On August 30, 1888, the third company made a mortgage of
the railroad. A bill to foreclose this was filed in the United
States court on September 1, 1891, a decree of foreclosure was
made in 1895, and Pardee, the plaintiff in error, purchased at
the sale, for the benefit of himself and C. P. Huntington.
Thus it will be seen that the title of the plaintiffs in error depends, as we said, on the question whether the original mortgage embraced the land in suit.

PARDEE v. ALDRIDGE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Before the first foreclosure, but after the execution of the
mortgage, suits were begun against the first corporation, and
in 1887 a judgment was rendered against it in one of them.
On this judgment executions were issued and the parcels of
land in suit were sold to the trustee for Downs and his associates, the defendants in error. The trustee brought a suit to
try title against the trustees and surviving directors of the first
company and a receiver of the third company, and got judgment on April 7, 1898. The defendant directors and trustees
also executed a deed to him, and he afterwards conveyed to the
present trustees for Downs. If the first mortgage embraced
the land, Downs got no rights, but except for that question
and one other to be mentioned, his title is not in controversy
here, and we do not go into it in detail. The trial court gave
judgment for Pardee and Huntington as to the tracts in question, but the judgment was reversed by the Court of Civil Appeals, and final judgment was entered in that court in favor of
the trustees for Downs. 24 Tex. Civ. App. 254. A writ of
error was refused by the Supreme Court of the State. The
case is brought here by writ of error on the ground that due
effect was denied to decrees of the United States court. Dupasseur v. 1?oc,ereau, 21 Wall. 130. See Swe'iingen v. St. Louis,
185 U. S. 38, 41. As we are of opinion that the judgment of
the Court of Appeals was right, it is less important than otherwise it would be to discuss the grounds upon which we think
that there is jurisdiction, and we shall proceed at once to the
merits of the case.
If the disputed parcels of land came under the mortgage
when they were acquired, they did so as "property used for
and pertaining to the operation of said railroad." At the trial
evidence was taken on the question whether these parcels were
used for or did pertain to such operation. The defendants in
error disclaimed to the extent of a right of way one hundred
feet wide, fifty feet on each side of the center line of the railroad. But there was testimony that the company, when it purchased, intended, after using what was necessary for tracks on
the west side, to lay out the rest of the Hughes and Slaughter
land in lots and sell them to the employ~s of the road. So as

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

to the Mays tract; what was needed was taken for tracks and
to get sand, and the rest was to be cut up into lots. Both parcels were returned each year for taxation as "lands and town
lots . . . exclusive of right of way and depot grounds," in
the inventory of the company. The judge instructed the jury
to return findings on two special issues to the following effect:
As to the Hughes and Slaughter land, the intention of the company was to put there the main track, part of the sheds, and
whatever switches and side tracks should be necessary to the
operation of the road, and if they did not occupy all of the land
to sell lots on the eastern side to its employ~s. The land was
was not cut up and no lots were sold. The company built its
main track on the west side, a Y extending eastwardly across
the land to beyond its centre, and a small house, used as a ticket
office and car shed. This was the only land the road owned in
Dallas when it terminated, and if it had been constructed and
operated properly it would have needed as much as twenty-five
acres (the size of the tract) for terminal purposes. As to the
A-ays tract, the intention was as above stated. The main track
was built across it on the east, and a spur track was built to
reach the sand. It would be necessary to use sand properly to
construct and operate the road.
The foregoing findings were merely the result of rulings on
the evidence. But the jury found, on other special issues submitted to them, that all but one hundred feet off the west
boundary of the Hughes and Slaughter tract was acquired for
the above stated purpose of subdivision and sale, that any use
of the rest of the land in connection with the operation of the
railroad, except the hundred feet, was only of a temporary
character, and that there was no such use of the rest of the land
except of so much as was occupied by the Y. There was evidence that the company expected to use another tract for terminal purposes, although it never got the deed. The jury further found that no part of the Hughes and Slaughter tract
above what was disclaimed was necessary for the construction,
equipment or operation of the railroad when the first mortgage
was foreclosed. Also, they found that all of the Mays tract was
acquired for the purpose of subdivision and sale. As there

PARDEE v. ALDRIDGE.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was evidence warranting these findings, and as the findings
dealt with pure matters of fact, which it was the province of
the jury to determine, so far as there was a conflict between
them and those which were made under instructions, those which
expressed the free judgment of the jury would prevail. We
have no concern with the arguments which are urged here in
favor of different conclusions. It is enough that there was some
evidence to support the free findings of the jury, and that being
so, those findings establish the facts, as was held by the Court
of Appeals.
On the findings which we have recited the land in dispute
was not property used for and pertaining to the operation of
said railroad, and the ruling of the Court of Appeals was right.
Some point is made of the disclaimer, which is said to have
been arbitrary in amount and not based on evidence. But a
party may disclaim what he likes, in advance of the evidence,
and is not bound to give reasons for his course.
One matter remains to be mentioned. A receiver appointed
in the second foreclosure suit brought a bill in equity in the United
States court against certain persons who had purchased the
land in question on other execution sales. One ground of the
bill was that the property was subject to the mortgage, and
on July 16, 1895, it was so decreed. It is argued that although
the trustees for Downs were not parties to this bill, they in
some way were affected by the decree, that the proceeding
was in rem, and that the decree brought the property into the
custody of the court so as to invalidate the sale. Wiswall v.
Sampson, 14: How. 52. But a suit in equity is not a proceeding in -rem properly so-called. It does not purport to summon
or invite, by notice or otherwise, all the world to come in, so
far as there are any adverse interests. It is more personal
even than the common law, and works out its decrees by orders
to the defendants. Of course, the adjudication in such a suit
does not conclude strangers. As to the decree bringing the
property into the custody of the court in such sense as to invalidate the sales under which Downs claims, the receiver being a
receiver of the mortgaged property only, and there being no representative of the equity of redemption or of Downs's interest
VOL. cLxxxix-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

before the court, it is not to be presumed that any act was done
inconsistent with outstanding rights as now established, or that
the receiver was put in possession of property which was not
embraced in the mortgage. The receiver was in possession of
the road, and his right to the portion of the land over which
the railroad ran is not disputed, but it does not appear that he
held the residue under an adverse claim, or at all. Although
declaring his right to the residue to be paramount to a third
person, the court left all others free to assert their claims.
There is nothing to show that the mode in which the trustees
for Downs asserted their rights was unlawful or void. Probably nothing was done under the suit in equity beyond the
entering of the decree on July 16, 1895. The principal sale
took place before that date.
J-udgment afirmed.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE PEOKHr

dissented.

KNOXVILLE WATER COMPANY v. KNOXVILLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 212. Argued March 13, 1903.-Decided Mrarch 23, 1903.

The Knoxville Water Company was incorporated to construct waterworks
near Knoxville with power to contract with the city and inhabitants for
a supply of water and " to charge such price for the same as may be
agreed upon between said company and said parties;" the general act
under which the company was incorporated provided that it should not
interfere with or impair the police or general powers of the municipal

authorities, and they should have power by ordinance to regulate the
price of water supplied by such company. The company in 1882 contracted for an exclusive privilege for thirty years to construct works, and

after fifteen years to convey to the city at a price to be agreed upon or
fixed by appraisal, and to "supply private consumers at not exceeding
Subsequently the city passed an ordifive cents per hundred gallons."
nance reducing the price of water to private consumers below that rate.
In an action to enforce penalties for overcharging the later rate,

Held, that there was no contract on the part of the city to permit the

