OCTOBER TERM0,

1902.

Syllabus.

189 U. S.

the same time we do not wish to go into the case so far as to
indicate any opinion as to the proper construction of claims 1
and 2 or on the question of infringement. There should be a
hearing below after the case is made ripe for it unaffected by
any intimations from us.
The situation then is this: The order for a preliminary injunction was reversed as part of the decree directing the dismissal of the bill, and not independently of the grounds on
which that conclusion rested. But the Court of Appeals had
the power to vacate the preliminary injunction, and had only
this been done, an appeal to this court could not have been
taken, nor would a certiorari ordinarily have been granted in
such circumstances.
Considering the peculiar attitude in which the case is presented, we prefer not to discuss the question how far the appellate courts are justified in reversing orders of the Circuit
Courts granting preliminary injunctions, when their discretion
has not been improperly exercised, and the order will be
-Decreeof the Circuit Court of Apeals reversed, and cause remanded to the Circuit Court with a direction to proceed to
final hearing in due course; the latter court being left at
liberty to deal with theyreliminaryinjunction asit otherwise
might but for this decree.

TENINESSEE v. CONDON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 209. Argued March 12, 13, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.

It is the duty of this court to decide actual controversies by a judgment
which can be carried into effect, and not to give opinions upon moot
questions or abstract propositions, or to declare principles or rules of

law which cannot affect the matter in issue in the case before it.
When, pending an appeal, it becomes, without any fault on the part of the
defendant, impossible for this court to grant any effectual relief to the
plaintiff in error even if it should decide the case in his favor, the appeal
will be dismissed. Mills v. Green, 159 U, S. 651, followed.

TENNESSEE v. CONDON.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THIS was a bill filed in the Chancery Court of Knox County,
Tennessee, under the statute in that behalf, in the name of the
State, "on the information of" T. A. Rambo and G. L. Maloney,
G. H. Strong, S. L. England, Sam Vance, J. F. C. Harrell and R.
L. Peters against Stephen P. Condon, T. T. MoMillan and James
Rich, and H. C. Anderson, representing "that at the January
term, 1898, G. H. Strong and T. A. lRambo were duly and
legally elected by the County Court of Knox County, Tennessee, members of the pike commission of Knox County for the
term of four years, which would make their terms of office expire in January, 1902, and G. L. Maloney, who is the judge of
Knox County, Tennessee, is by operation of the law ex officio
chairman of said commission. The said Sam Vance and J. F.
C. Harrell were duly elected members of the said workhouse
commission by the said County Court of Knox County, Tennessee, at its January term, 1901, which would make their
terms of office expire in 1903. The said S. L. England and I.
N. White were duly elected workhouse commissioners of Knox
County, Tennessee, at its January term, 1900, which would
make their terms of office expire in 1902, and the said G. L.
Maloney as judge of the county is ex officio chairman of the said
commission. The said iR. L. Peters was elected superintendent
of the workhouse in January, 1898, which would make his
term of office expire in January, 1902. All of said officers were
duly and legally elected and inducted into their respective offices and assumed the duties thereof, and up to the time of the
qualification of defendants, to wit, on March 2, 1901, continued
to perform the duties and exercise the functions and receive the
emoluments pertaining to said offices."
The bill then averred that, on February 8, 1901, an act of the
General Assembly of the State of Tennessee was approved by
the governor, and went into effect, entitled: "An act to create
a board of public road commissioners, to regulate the laying out
and working of public roads in this State, in counties having a
population of not less than '70,000 and not more than 90,000,
under the Federal census of the year 1900, or any subsequent
Federal census, and to provide a method for the management

voL. OLXXXrx-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

and control of county workhouses in counties coming under the
provisions of this act."
That in pursuance of the act, the governor of Tennessee, on
February 16, 1901, appointed Stephen P. Condon, James Rich
and T. T. MkfcMillan as the board of public road commissioners; that Condon was appointed superintendent of public
roads, and the other two associate members of the road commission; that the governor had issued to defendants commissions as such public road commissioners; and that they gave
bond and qualified March 2, 1901, " and are now attempting
to perform the duties of the said offices."
That defendants had in fact ousted the pike commission-

ers, the workhouse commissioners and superintendent from
their respective positions, and deprived them of their privileges and powers; and that H. C. Anderson had been elected

by defendants manager of the workhouse.
Complainants further represented that the act of February 8, 1901, was in plain violation of the constitution of the
State of Tennessee; illegal, null and void ; and "not effective to deprive the said parties of the several offices aforesaid,
to which they were regularly elected, or of the rights, powers, privileges and emoluments thereof," and that defendants
"are unlawfully holding and exercising said offices of public
road commissioners and superintendent of roads and associate members, and that they are usurpers of said offices."
The prayer was (1) for process; (2) " that the said defendants may be enjoined from holding the said offices of public
road commissioners or superintendent of public roads or associate members of said road commission, or manager of the
workhouse, or from exercising any of the powers and rights
which the said act of February 8, 1901, attempts to confer
upon them, and that they may be enjoined from receiving any
of the emoluments appertaining to the said offices under and
by virtue of the said unconstitutional and void act, and that
upon final hearing said injunction may be made perpetual;"
(3) that the defendants be required to execute a bond to indemnify and hold harmless; (4) " that upon final hearing a
decree may be rendered declaring that the said act of Febru-

TENNESSEE v. CONDON.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ary 8, 1901, is unconstitutional, null and void, and that the
same confers no right upon the defendants, and that the defendants are not entitled to exercise any of the powers and
privileges therein contained, or to enjoy any of the rights and
emoluments therein given to them, and that they be required
to surrender same and turn over all the powers, property and
privileges thereof to the rightful owners aforesaid;" (5) and
for general relief.
On March 21, 1901,'an application for injunction was denied,
and on March 23d the bill was amended by striking out the
third clause of the prayer. Defendants filed a demurrer
March 29, 1901, which, on the next day, was sustained and
the bill dismissed. The case was then carried to the Court of
Chancery Appeals, and it was there contended, on errors assigned, that the act of February 8, 1901, was invalid because
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States as well as of the state constitution. The
Court of Chancery Appeals affirmed the judgment of the
chancellor, August 29, 1901, and an appeal was prosecuted to
the Supreme Court of the State, where it was again alleged in
the assignment of errors that the act in question was in violation of the state constitution and of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court held, on November 15, 1901, that
the statute was not in violation of either, and affirmed the decrees of the chancellor and of the Court of Chancery Appeals.
108 Tennessee, 82. Thereupon a writ of error was sued out
from this court, and the record was filed and the cause docketed December 10, 1901. No motion was made to advance the
case, and it came on for argument and was argued March 12
and 13, 1903.
.Ar. G. W. Pickle for plaintiffs in error.
was with him on the brief.

-Mr.J

F. Green

_Mr. Joshua IF. Caldwell for defendants in error.
Ciarles T. Cates, Jr., was with him on the brief.

-r.

MR. CHIEF JUSTicE FULLER, -after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

This was a proceeding under provisions of the Code of Tennessee authorizing a bill in equity to be filed " whenever any
person unlawfully holds or exercises any public office or
franchise within this State." Shannon's Tenn. Code, (1896)
ยง 5165, cl. 1 ; ยง 5167.
By sections 5168 and 5169 it is provided that the suit may
be brought " by the attorney general for the district or county,
when directed so to do by the General Assembly, or by the
governor and attorney general of the State concurring;" or
"on the information of any person, upon such person giving
security for the costs;" when the attorney general for the district or county may institute the proceeding without direction.
State v. Campbell, 8 Lea, 74, 75.
Such was this suit, which was not brought by direction of the
General Assembly, or of the governor and attorney general of
the State; but was instituted at the instance of persons superseded in public office by an act of the General Assembly (approved by the governor and carried into effect by him) which
they charged was unconstitutional. Acts 1901, c. 8.
The question of constitutionality had been raised in an application for mandatory injunction to compel the county judge
to approve the bonds of the persons appointed commissioners
under the act, the writ had been awarded and obeyed, and the
decree was affirmed and the act sustained by the Supreme
Court at the same time that the decree in this case, subsequently
brought, was affirmed. Condonv v. Afaloney, 108 Tennessee, 75,
82. But the Supreme Court also ruled in the prior case that
as the writ had been obeyed, it had spent its force, so that even
if they differed with the chancellor as to the use of the particular
process, an objection therein urged, a reversal of his decree
"could not undo what had been done," and to enter it, "would
be an idle ceremony."
In the circumstances this case assumed the aspect of a civil
contest between individuals, and not of a prerogative writ to
correct usurpation of office.
Sections 5175, 5176, 5177 and 5180 are as follows:
"5175. Whenever the action is brought against a person for
usurping an office, in addition to the other allegations, the

TENNESSEE v. CONDON.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with a
statement of his right thereto, may be added, and the trial
should, if practicable, determine the right of the contesting
parties.
"51'T6. If judgment is rendered in favor of such claimant, the
court may order the defendant to deliver to him, upon his qualifying as required by law, all books and papers belonging to
the office in his (defendant's) custody, or under his control, and
such claimant may thereupon proceed to exercise the functions
of the office.
"5177. Such claimant, in this event, may also, at any time
within one year thereafter, bring suit against the defendant,
and recover the damages he has sustained by reason of the act
of the defendant."
"5180. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a
corporation, is adjudged guilty of usurping, unlawfully holding,
or exercising any office or franchise, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from the office or fran-

chise, and that he pay the costs."
In State ex rel. Cu'-ry v. Wriglt, 5 Heiskell, 612, it was held
that the bond given in case of appeal in an action for usurpation of office need be only for costs, and the court, after referring to sections 5176, 5177 and 5180, (by the prior numbers,)
said:
"These provisions are specific and clear that the matter in
contest to be decided is the usurpation of the office or franchise;
and the judgmeilt, exclusion from that office or franchise; and
the money judgment to be given is for costs, and the damages,
if any have accrued, are provided for in another suit to be
brought within a year after the judgment.
"The provision, ' that the suit will be conducted as other suits
in equity,' only means that it shall be conducted as such a suit,
to the attainment of the results above indicated, but cannot be
held to include an inquiry into the damages sustained."
The present case was argued March 12 and 13, and it appears on the face of the bill that the terms of office of all the
relators, except the county judge, expired before that day.
And this was true as to him because we find, by reference to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Articles VI and VII of the constitution of Tennessee, and State
v. M aloney, 92 Tennessee, 62, that his then term of office as
county judge terminated in 1902.
As to the defendants the bill shows that defendant Anderson
was merely a subordinate appointee of his co-defendants, and
that they had been appointed by the governor commissioners
nder the act of February 8, 1901. That act provided for the
appointment of three commissioners, to "hold their offices until
the next general election of county officers, when their successors shall be elected by the people, and every two (2) years
thereafter said offices shall be filled by popular election." The
next general election of county officers referred to was held,
according to section 1154 of the Code, in August, 1902, so
that these commissioners were appointed to serve until that
date, and their temporary commissions then terminated.
We cannot assume that relators, who were originally elected
by the county court, would bold over, and manifestly the
provisional title of defendants has determined. It follows that
the relief as prayed cannot now be granted.
There are cases in quo warrantoin which judgment of ouster
has been entered although the term of the person lawfully
entitled had expired, and also where informations have been
retained, when the statute provided for fine or damages, but
here the proceeding cannot now be maintained as on behalf of
the public, and considered, as counsel insists it should be, as
merely a contest between two sets of officials and not between
the State and its officials, the state courts would be at liberty
to treat it as abated, and the mere matter of costs cannot be
availed of to sustain jurisdiction. See Boring v. Griffith,
1 1-eiskell, 456, 461 ; State v. .cConnell, 3 Lea, 332; Williamson Conty v. Perkins, 39 S. W. Rep. 347; State v. Lindsey,
103 Tennessee, 625, 635.
Doubtless the question of the validity of the act of 1901 is of
importance, but it has been upheld by the highest judicial
tribunal of the State of Tennessee as consistent with the state
constitution, and it affects only the citizens of that State.
If we were to hold that the act could be subjected to the test
of the Fourteenth Amendment and that it could not stand that

UNION & PLANTERS' BANK v. MEMPHIS.
189 U. S.

Syllabus.

test, we should do nothing more than reverse the decree below
and remand the cause, and as such a judgment would be ineffectual, we must decline to intimate any opinion on the subject.
"The duty of this court, as of every other judicial tribunal,
is to decide actual controversies by a judgment which can be
carried into effect, and not to give opinions upon moot questions or abstract propositions, or to declare principles or rules
of law which cannot affect the matter in issue in the case before it. It necessarily follows that when, pending an appeal
from the judgment of a lower court, and without any fault of
the defendant, an event occurs which renders it impossible for
this court, if it should decide the case in favor of the plaintiff,
to grant him any effectual relief whatever, the court will not
proceed to a formal judgment, but will dismiss the appeal."
Mr. Justice Gray, XMills v. G'reen, 159 U. S. 651, 653.
We think this writ of error comes within the rule thus declared, and it is therefore
Dismissed without costs to eitherparty.

UNION AND PLANTERS' BANK v. MEMPHIS.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT AND FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Nos. 67, 221.

Submitted

farch 20, 1903.-Decided April 13, 1903.

Where diversity of citizenship does not exist and the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court rests solely on the ground that the cause of action arose
under the Constitution of the United States, anappeal lies directly to this
court, under section 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891, and if an appeal
should be presented to the Circuit Court of Appea's and there go to
decree, this court will reverse the decree, not on the merits, but by reason
of want of jurisdiction in that court. It is not the intention of the
Judiciary Act of 1891 to allow two appeals in cases of that description.

