OCTOBER TERM.

1902.

Syllabus.

189 U. S.

how they misapplied it. As it appears affirmatively that, before the contest, De Cambra was informed of the nature of the
wrongs he alleges were perpetrated upon him by Rogers, it
may be presumed that evidence was offered by both parties
upon that question, and that it was decided adversely to his
contention. Under those circumstances nothing is shown except an ordinary contest between two applicants for preimption, in which the land officers upon the testimony decided in
favor of one and against the other. But it is well settled that
the decision of the Land Department upon questions of fact is
conclusive in the courts. Barfenning v. Chicago &c. Railway,
163 U. S. 321, 323, and cases cited; Johnson v. Drew, 171 U.
S. 93, 99; Gardner v. Bonestell, 180 U. S. 362.
It is hardly necessary to say that when a decision has been
made by the Secretary of the Interior, courts will not entertain
an inquiry as to the extent of his investigation and knowledge
of the points decided, or as to the methods by which he reached
his determination.
These are the only Federal questions presented, and their
decision was unquestionably correct.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.

EASTERN BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION '.
WILLIAM SON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 152. Argued January 28, 1903.--Decided March 23, 1903.

Courts of one State do not take judicial notice of the laws of another State,
whether written or unwritten. Statutes and decisions must be proved

as facts, but when proved their construction and meaning are for the
consideration and judgment of the court, and the fact that an attorney
of the enacting State has testified without contradiction as to the con-

struction of a law of that State does not conclude the court and make it
its duty to find as a fact that such was the true construction.

EASTERN BUILDING &c. ASSN. v. WILLIAMSON. 123
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

While this court does not take judicial notice of the decisions of the courts
of one State in a case coming from the courts of another State, it may
properly refer to the opinion of the highest court of a State as to the construction of a statute of that State when such statute is involved in a case
before this court and this applies to a decision rendered after the judgment appealed from was rendered.
The construction given by the Supreme Court of South Carolina and by
the Court of Appeals of New York to the building and loan law of New
York to the effect that it does not relieve a building and loan association
from an obligation to pay the full par value of certificates at a date
stated therein whether earned or not commends itself to this court as a
correct construction thereof.

THIS action was commenced on January 12, 1898, in the
Circuit Court of Darlington County, South Carolina, by Bright
Williamson against the Eastern Building and Loan Association
of Syracuse, New York, to recover the face value of twentyfive shares of stock in the defendant association, less a sum
theretofore borrowed by the plaintiff from the association.
Judgment in his favor for the full amount claimed was rendered in the trial, affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State,
62 S. C. 390, and thence brought here on this writ of error.
The case is similar to that of the same plaintif in error v.
Ebaugh, 185 U. S. 114. Here, as there, the stock certificates
contained an absolute promise to pay "the sum of one hundred
dollars for each of said shares at the end of seventy-eight
months from the date hereof." Here, as there, circulars were
shown to the plaintiff to induce his subscription, one of which
contained this statement :
"For the investor.
"This association issues three classes of certificates, designated as instalment, paid-up and fully paid. All of which are
guaranteed to mature in 61, years.
"Amply secured by first mortgages on real estate.
"Paid-up stock doubles in 61 years.
"Fully paid certificates guaranteed.
"Quarterly dividends, 7 per cent per annum.
"For the borrower.
"This association has no auction sales.

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

"No bidding for loans.
"And a definite time for repaying a loan."
Another, the following:
"Only association giving investor and borrower definite
maturity contract in 78 months. Only association issuing definite contracts."
The defendant pleaded that there was no absolute promise
to pay at the end of seventy-eight months, but only an estimate
of the time at which the stock would mature; that an absolute
promise to pay at the end of seventy-eight months was inconsistent with the nature of the corporation as a mutual company
and against the provisions of its charter and by-laws, and also
illegal by the laws of New York under which the company was
incorporated.
On the trial before a jury, defendant, in support of its answer,
introduced the charter and by-laws of the company, the statutes
of :New York under which it was incorporated, certain decisions
of the courts of that State, and the testimony of the assistant
secretary and actuary of the defendant that the shares of stock
had not, in fact, matured; also the deposition of its general attorney, who, after affirming his familiarity with the law of that
State regarding building and loan associations, of which, as he
said, he had made a special study, testified that, under the defendant's articles of incorporation and by-laws, and the laws
and decisions of New York, the heretofore referred to clause in
the certificate of stock "is not to be construed or held as a
guaranty period of maturity, but, on the other hand, an estimated period," and that the association is not required to pay
the face value of the certificates until "the amount paid by the
plaintiff on his shares of stock, augmented by the earnings apportioned and credited thereto, equal the par value." Upon
this testimony the defendant asked the court to charge the jury
that full faith and credit must be given to the laws of New
York, as construed by its courts, and that by reason thereof,
"under the terms of the contract of membership, and the contract of loan, by-laws and charter, the transaction between the
plaintiff and defendant does not terminate merely upon making
a fixed number of payments, but only when the dues paid in by

EASTERN BUILDING &c. ASSN. v. WILLIAMSON. 125
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

him, with the profits apportioned to his shares, make them equal
their par value of $100.00 per share." Other instructions of a
similar nature, or looking to the same result, were also asked,
but all were refused.
.M'.William Hepburn Russell for plaintiff in error. MAr1'.
William Beverly Winslow and Mr. D. A. Pierce were with
him on the brief.
-Yr. H. E.

Toung for defendant in error.

MR.JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The Federal question presented arises on the contention that
the South Carolina courts did not give "full faith and credit
to the public acts, records and judicial proceedings"
of the State of New York, as required by section 1, article IV,
of the Constitution of the United States.
Courts of one State do not take judicial notice of the laws of
another State, whether written or unwritten. They must be
proved as facts. Talbot v. Seem an, 1 Cranch, 1, 38 ; Livingston
v. Te .aryland Insurance Co., 6 Cranch, 274; Ennis v. Smith,
14 How. 400, 426; Pierce v. Indseth, 106 U. S.546, 551; Chicago & Alton Railroad v. ITWiggins Feerry Co., 119 U. S.615,
622; -Lloydv. 3fatthews, 155 U. S.222; Building & Zoan Association v. Ebaugh, 185 U. S.114,121; Arashua Savings Bank
v. Anglo-American, Co., post, p. 221.
The law of New York was so proved in this case, and the contention is that it was not rightly construed by the South Carolina courts; that the law of New York which entered into and
formed a part of the contract sued on was not given by those
courts the same force and effect that it had in New York, and
that hence the rights secured by the Constitution of the United
States to the plaintiff inerror were denied. If it appeared that
the South Carolina courts, without questioning the validity,
simply construed a statute of New York, no Federal question
would be presented. Glenn v. Garth, 147 U. S.360; Lloyd v.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

.ftthews, 155 U. S. 222; Banholzer v. Nrew York Life Insu?ance Co., 178 U. S. 402; Johnson v. _New York Life Ins. Co.,
187 U. S. 491.
But it is contended that the construction of the New York
statutes as applicable to this contract was shown by the decisions of the courts of that State and the opinion of one learned
in its laws; that there was no contradictory testimony, and,
therefore, it was the duty of the South Carolina courts to find
as a fact that such was the true construction.
The promise to pay one hundred dollars at the end of seventyeight months is plain and unambiguous. It is a positive promise
to pay at a fixed time. The circulars presented by the company
to the plaintiff as an inducement for his subscription only emphasize the certainty of the promise. So, if the inquiry were
limited to the mere language of the promise and the representations which led up to it, but one decision was possible. It is
said that the promise made in the certificate is expressly based
upon "full compliance with the terms, conditions and by-laws
printed on the front and back of this certificate ;" that one of
the conditions expressed on the face of the certificate is: "The
shareholder agrees to pay, or cause to be paid, a monthly installment of seventy-five cents on each share named in this contract, the same to be paid on or before the last Saturday of
each month until such share matures or is withdrawn ;" that
it contained this further stipulation : "Payable in the manner
and upon the conditions set forth in said terms, conditions and
by-laws hereto attached," and that these matters thus referred
to had the effect of changing the absolute promise to a conditional one. All these were received in evidence, and when so
received it became a matter of judicial construction to determine whether they had such effect, and that was a question
which, nothing else being shown, was for the consideration of
the courts in which the litigation was pending. In like manner, after the decisions of the courts of New York were received
in evidence, their meaning and scope became matters for the
same consideration. While statutes and decisions of other States
are facts to be proved, yet when proved their construction and
meaning are for the consideration and judgment of the courts

EASTERN BUILDING &c. ASSN. v. WILLIAMSON. 127
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in which they have been proved. Nor is the rule changed by
the testimony given in the deposition of defendant's counsel,
for, as he states, his opinion is based on the statutes, the articles of incorporation and the decisions admitted in evidence, together with similar decisions of other States under like statutes,
articles of incorporation and by-laws. No witness can conclude
a court by his opinion of the construction and meaning of statutes and decisions already in evidence. Laing v. Rigney, 160
U. S.531. The duty of the court to construe and decide remains the same. It must be remembered that the effort here
made is to change the obligations which the defendant apparently assumed by the issue to plaintiff of its certificates of stock,
and to justify such change by its articles of incorporation, the
statutes of the State of New York under which it was created,
and the decisions of the courts of that State. There is no suggestion of any peculiar local law in New York independent of
that created by these articles and statutes and shown by its
decisions, and their effect upon the terms of the contract was a
matter for judicial construction by the courts of South Carolina. That the defendant so understood the matter is apparent
from the instructions it asked.
The conclusion reached by the courts of South Carolina that
the articles of incorporation and by-laws and the statutes of
New York did not alter the apparent meaning of the contract
was correct. The absolute promise was not so inconsistent with
the articles of incorporation or by-laws as to be void. The bylaws at the time of making this contract contained no such provision as appears in _Daley v. People's Building &c. Associa-

tion, 172 Massachusetts, 533. There the provision was that
"whenever the dues paid and dividends declared shall equal the
par value of the shares held by any shareholder, said shares of
stock shall be canceled," and the shareholder "shall be entitled
to receive

.

.

.

the par value of the shares named,

and no more." Here "all shareholders shall pay or cause to be
paid a monthly instalment of seventy-five cents on each share
named in their certificate, until the same shall be fully paid."
Article 14, section 14. But in sections 21 and 22 of the same
article are these provisions for a different mode and amount 9f
payment;

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc.

189 U. S.

21. And it is hereby expressly agreed between all

shareholders and this association, that a payment of one hundred
dollars per share, named in their certificate, that has been in
force till maturity shall be accepted as full payment of all
claims on their certificate or against this association.
"S~c. 22. Paid-up and non-assessable stock may be issued
and sold at the price of fifty dollars per share, payable on date
of issue. Any parties holding such paid-up stock, wanting to
withdraw the same before maturity, may do so and receive six
per cent annual interest from the date of issue of said stock."
Neither was the promise dtra ires the corporation. We
are saved from the necessity of an extended discussion of these
questions by a recent opinion of the Court of Appeals of New
York in the case of JFoug v. this defendant, Eastern Building
& -LoanAssociation, decided December 2, 1902, 172 N. Y. 508.
It is true that the decision was not offered in evidence on the
trial of this case in the South Carolina court. It had not then
been announced. And it is also true that we do not take judicial notice of the decisions of the courts of one State in a case
coming to us from the courts of another. Hanley v. Donoghue,
116 U. S. 1, 6; Chicago & Alton Railroad v. Iiggins Ferry
Co., 119 U. S. 615-622; Lloyd v. .Matthews, 155 U. S. 222, 227.
But nevertheless we may properly refer to the opinion as a construction of the law, and the views therein expressed not only
commend themselves to our judgment as intrinsically sound,
but also, as the views of the law of New York entertained by
the justices of its highest court, have a peculiar and persuasive
appropriateness. Referring to the contention that the terms of
the articles of incorporation were inconsistent with the absolute promise contained in this certificate that court said:
"In other words, the defendant's contention is that those
provisions were sufficient to change an absolute promise to pay
into a conditional one dependent upon the success of its enterprise. -We find nothing in these provisions which would justify
any such conclusion. The provision in paragraph one that the
plaintiff should pay until the share is paid or withdrawn, is entirely consistent with the agreement for absolute payment for
the shares by the defendant at the time named, as by its con-

EASTERN BUILDING &c. ASSN. v. WILLIAMSON. 129
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tract it agreed that the plaintiff's shares should mature at that
time."
Again, referring to the contention that the absolute promise
contained in such certificate was ultra vires the corporation, it
observed:
"We deem it unnecessary at this time to determine whether
the defendant was authorized by that statute to enter into such
contracts, for if we assume that the making of them was in excess of the express power conferred upon the corporation by
that statute, still, as the contracts involved no moral turpitude
and did not offend any express statute, they were not illegal in
a sense that would prevent the maintenance of an action thereon.
It is now well settled that a corporation cannot avail itself of
the defence of ultra vires when the contract has been, in good
faith, fully performed by the other party, and the corporation
has had the benefit of the performance and of the contract. As
has been said, corporations, like natural persons, have power
and capacity to do wrong. They may, in their contracts and
dealings, break over the restraints imposed upon them by their
charters; and when they do so their exemption from liability
cannot be claimed on the mere ground that they have no attributes nor facilities which render it possible for them thus to
act. While they have no right to violate their charters, yet
they have capacity to do so, and are bound by their acts where
a repudiation of them would result in manifest wrong to innocent parties, and especially where the offender alleges its own
wrong to avoid .a just responsibility. It may be that while a
contract remains unexecuted upon both sides, a corporation is
not estopped to say in its defence that it had not the power to
make the contract sought to be enforced, yet when it becomes
executed by the other party, it is estopped from asserting its
own wrong and cannot be excused from payment upon the plea
that the contract was beyond its power. Bissell v. fich. So.
& -Yo. Ind. R. R. Cos., 22 N . Y.*258;
1tTitney Arms Co. v.
Barlow 63 N. Y. 62; Rider life Raft Co. v. Roackt-7 N. Y.
378; Holnes, Booth & HEaydens v. Willard~f25 N. Y. 75, 80;
City of Buffalo v. Balcom,134 N. Y. 532; Bath Gas L. Co. v.
VOL. CLxxxx-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

Claffy, 151 N. Y. 24; .3foss v. CoheA,'158 N. Y. 210, 249; .[annon v. Siegel-Cooper 6., 167 N. Y. 244."
We deem it unnecessary to add any observations of our own
to these satisfactory declarations of the law of New York.
A single matter remains to be noticed. It is contended that
the contract evidenced by the certificates was changed by a
loan subsequently obtained by the plaintiff from the defendant
upon the security of the shares-a loan obtained after the bylaws bad been amended to make, as alleged, more clear the obligations assumed by the issue of share certificates. That amendment is found in section 3, article 8, which as amended reads:
"SEc. 3. Installment stock shall mature and be payable when
the dues paid thereon with the profits apportioned and credited
thereto shall equal one hundred dollars per share. Paid-up
stock shall mature and be payable when the dues thereon with
the profits apportioned and credited thereto in excess of any
cash dividends, if any, that may be paid, shall equal one hundred dollars per share; and unless otherwise provided all other
stock shall be payable as provided by the by-laws or certificates
of shares."
But it is not shown that there was any express agreement
between the parties to change the terms of the original contract; the amendment was clearly prospective in its operation,
.IYights Templar ' & f. I. Indemnity Co. v. Jarnan, 187
'U. S. 197; and we are unable to perceive that the mere borrowing or the promise to return the money so borrowed had in
themselves any effect upon the prior contract.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina is
Ajjl-med.
MR. JUSTICE ITARLAN and MR.
the result.

JuSTIcE WHITE

concurred in

