OCTOBER TERAM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

fect titles were required to present them within two years, and
all having perfect titles had the right, but were not bound, to
apply to that court for confirmation of such title. It was not
until 1899 that the petition in this case was filed by a person
who appears, in 1895, to have found lineal descendants of the
original grantee, from whom be had secured deeds of this
abandoned grant, the very existence of which seems to have
been forgotten. If this be considered an imperfect grant, the
right to file it expired years ago; if it be a perfect grant, as
now claimed, we see no reason why the owner may not prosecute his claim in the territorial courts. Without expressing an
opinion as to whether this was a perfect or imperfect grant
within the meaning of the law, or whether the boundaries
might not still be ascertained by a survey, we are satisfied
that it is one which the Court of Private Land Claims could
not be called upon to confirm, and that, if for no other reason,
the petition should be dismissed upon the ground of laches.
The decree of the court below is therefore

Affirmed.
(See note on page 504.)

RANKIN v. FIDELITY INSURANCE, TRUST AN D
SAFE DEPOSIT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 178. Argued February 26, 27, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
The following propositions may be considered as settled in regard to the
liability of shareholders of national banks under section 5151, Rev. Stat.:
1. Liability may be established by allowing one's name to appear upon the
books of the corporation as owner, though in fact he be only a pledgee.
Nor can the real owner exonerate himself from responsibility by making a
colorable transfer of the stock, with the understanding that at his request
it shall be retransferred.
2. Stockholders of record are liable for unpaid installments, though in fact
they may have parted with their stock, or held it for others.
3. A mere pledgee, however, who receives from his debtor a transfer of
shares, surrenders the certificate to the bank and takes out new ones in

RANKIN v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

his own name, in which he is described as "pledgee," and holds them
afterwards in good faith, and as collateral security for the payment of
his debt, is not subject to personal liability as a shareholder. But it is
otherwise, if he allow his name to appear on the book as owner, or being
the owner, makes a colorable transfer of the stock.
Where it was shown that a trust company loaned on shares of a then
solvent and dividend paying national bank, and accepted its stock as
collateral, and subsequently the pledgor failed, and the trust company
caused the stock to be transferred to one of its employ~s, paid an assessment subsequently levied upon the stock, and charged it to the pledgor,
and frequently wrote to ascertain if there was any market for the stock,
stating that it was held as collateral, Held, that although the construction of written instruments is one for the court, where the case turns
upon the proper concfusions to be drawn from a series of letters, particularly of a commercial character taken in connection with other facts and
circumstances, it is one which is properly referred to a jury, and as this
case really turned upon the actual ownership of the shares, such question
of ownership was-properly left to the jury-as one of fact.
Held, that the pledgee is not bound by statements made without its knowledge by the assignees of the pledgors upon the schedules of liability to
the effect that the pledgee had converted the stock.

THIS was an action at law by the receiver of the Keystone
National Bank of Erie, Pennsylvania, against the defendant
company, as the actual owner and holder of 172J shares of the
capital stock of the bank, standing upon its books in the name
of one William W. Hand, to recover an assessment upon the
shareholders of one hundred per cent made by the Comptroller
of the Currency pursuant to Rev. Stat. sec. 5151.
The facts of the case are substantially as follows: On November 15, 1890, Delamater & Co., a banking firm of M-[eadville,
Pa., borrowed $15,000 of defendant company, in renewal of
prior loans, giving therefor their note for sixty days, and as
collateral security deposited 230 shares of the capital stock of
the Keystone National Bank of the par value of $100 per share,
standing in the name of the individual members of the firm.
The shares were valued at the time at par, $23,000; the bank
was in good credit, and for twenty-seven years had regularly
paid, and was then paying, semi-annual dividends. With its
certificates of stock thus deposited, powers of attorney signed
by.the individual holders of the stock were also delivered to
the defendant. These documents empowered the defendant to

OCTOBER TERAU, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

transfer the shares-the name of the transferee and the attorney being blank.
Twenty days thereafter, and on December 5, 1890, Delamater & Co. failed and made a general assignment for the benefit of their creditors, and on December 17, defendant having
received notice of the assignment, wrote to the assignees declining to renew the note, but offering to anticipate its payment
and return the collaterals. It seems the assets of Delamater
& Co. were insufficient for this purpose.
On January 10, 1891, defendant sent to the Keystone National Bank of Erie the original certificates, deposited as collateral, and requested the bank to transfer the shares to
William W. Hand, a clerk in the employ of the defendant.
Three days later, and on January 13, the bank paid a semiannual dividend of two per cent, but it does not appear who
received this dividend, which proved to be the last one paid by
the bank. The transfer was made on the books of the bank,
and new certificates issued in the name of Hand, dated January 15, 1891, and were transmitted by the bank to the company,
which acknowledged receipt of the stock, and stated that it
would like to have a bid for the stock "if you know of a purchaser." Hand signed the transfer in blank on the back of
these certificates, and in that form they were retained by the
defendant. There was no receipt for the certificates except a
memorandum in the handwriting of the clerk on the stub of
the stock book: "Sent to the Fidelity Insurance, Trust and
Safe Deposit Company, Philadelphia, Penn., 1 /17/ 91."
Fourteen months thereafter, and on -March 16,1892, the Comptroller of the Currency, finding that the capital of the bank
was impaired, ordered an assessment of twenty-five per cent on
the capital stockto make good the deficiency. The assessment
upon these shares amounted to $5750. This amount was paid
by the defendant and charged on its books to Delamater & Co.
as an additional advance. Its cheque was sent to the bank in
a letter signed by Mfr. Hand.
On December 22, 1892, pursuant to Rev. Stat. sec. 5143, and
with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, the capital stock of the bank was reduced from $250,000 to $150,000,

RANKIN v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

divided into 1500 shares of $100 each. Thereupon, and on
January 24, 1893, the defendant sent to the bank the certificates for 230 shares, and on February 7 received the certificates
in the name of Hand, for 1721 shares, being the reduced number. Hand signed a transfer in blank on the back of the certificates, and in that form they remained in the possession of
the defendant. On March 20, 1894, the vice president of the
defendant company addressed a letter to the bank stating that
the company held 172" shares of the stock registered in the
name of W. W. Hand, and requesting a copy of their last
statement and any other information regarding the business of
the bank, and as to whether there were any sales of stock, saying "We would like to sell our holdings if marketable." No
reply being received to this letter, the defendant company repeated its substance in another letter of April 4, stating that
"as we have a loan of $22,000 depending upon the value of
Several other
172 shares, we desire the above information."
letters were written to the same purport.
On June 29, 1897, the Keystone National Bank closed its
doors, on July 26 the Comptroller of the Currency appointed a
receiver, and on November 3 ordered an assessment of one
hundred per cent on the stockholders. Whereupon this action
was brought to recover an assessment of $17,250 on the shares
registered in the name of Hand.
The case was tried before a jury, and the question submitted
to them "whether before this Keystone National Bank failed,
the defendant company-the Fidelity Trust Company of this
city-was the real owner of these shares of stock, or whether
it continued to be the pledgee of the stock; whether the stock
had become theirs in the sense in which we use in ordinary
speech the word owner, or whether it had been continued to be
pledged to them as collateral security for the payment of the
note which has been offered in evidence."
Upon the issue thus submitted the jury returned a verdict for
the defendant, upon which judgment was entered, and the case
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals upon writ of error. That
court affirmed the judgment. 108 Fed. Rep. 475.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

.r. Asa TF TFaters for plaintiff in error.
X r. Richard C. Dale for defendant in error.
Bnowx, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.JUSTICE

There being but little conflict in the testimony as to the actual facts, the question really is whether the court should have
submitted the case to the jury, or instructed a verdict for the
plaintiff.
By Rev. Stat. sec. 5151, "the shareholdersof every national
banking association shall be held individually responsible,
equally and ratably, and not one for another, for all contracts,
debts, and engagements of such association, to the extent of the
amount of their stock therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount invested in such shares;" and by sec. 5234,
the receiver may, upon order of the proper court, enforce this
individual liability.
Most of the cases arising under this section have turned upon
the question whether defendant was in fact the owner of the
shares. In this connection the following propositions may be
considered as settled:
1. That liability may be established by allowing one's name
to appear upon the books of the corporation as owner, though
in fact he be only a pledgee. Pidlrnan v. Uiton, 96 U. S. 328.
Nor can the real owner exonerate himself from responsibility
by making a colorable transfer of the stock, with the understanding that at his request it shall be retransferred. 2rational
Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628; Bowden v. Johnson, 107 U. S. 251;
Stuart v. tayden, 169 U. S. 1.
2. Stockholders of record are liable for unpaid installments,
though in fact they may have parted with their stock, or held
it for others. Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319.
3. A mere pledgee, however, who receives from his debtor a
transfer of shares, surrenders the certificate to the bank and
takes out new ones in his own name, in which he is described
as "pledgee," and holds them afterwards in good faith, and as

RANKIN v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

collateral security for the payment of his debt, is not subject
to personal liability as a shareholder. Pauly v. State Zoan &
T-rust Co., 165 U. S. 606. But it is otherwise, if he allow his
name to appear on the book as owner, or being the owner,
makes a colorable transfer of the stock. .HationalBank v.
Case, 99 U. S. 628.
Three cases in this court are specially pertinent to the one
under consideration, and we have little more to do than topoint out the salient facts of each and determine by which one
of them this case is controlled.
In National Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628, it appeared that the
Germania Bank lent $14,000 to the firm of Phelps, M[cCullou'gh
& Co., who, to secure the payment of the loan, pledged to the
bank one hundred shares of the stock of the Crescent City Bank,
with power, on non-payment of the note, to dispose of the stock
for cash at public or private sale, without recourse to legal proceedings. At the same time a power of attorney was given
authorizing a transfer of the stock to the Germania Bank. The
note not being paid at maturity, a transfer was made to the
Germania Bank on the transfer books of the Crescent City
Bank. The stock was subsequently transferred to one of the
clerks of the Germania Bank with an understanding between
him and the officers of the bank that he should retransfer it at
their request. It was held that, notwithstanding the transfer
to the clerk, the stock remained subject to the bank's control,
that the transfer was made to evade the liability of the true
owners, and that as Phelps, McCullough & Co. had ceased to
be the owners of the stock, the bank was liable. The liability
was put by the court upon the ground that the stock was transferred to the Germania Bank upon the transfer books of the
Crescent City Bank, and thereby the bank became subject to
the liabilities of a stockholder, and that as a transfer of the
stock to its clerk, Waldo, was colorable, it had not exonerated
itself from that liability.
The case is distinguishable from the instant case by the fact
that the stock was actually transferred to the bank upon the
transfer books of the Crescent City Bank, which thus appeared
as owner and that the subsequent transfer to Waldo was merely

OCTOBER TERM,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

colorable. There was also the further fact that the Crescent
City Bank was in a failing condition when the transfer to Waldo
was made, and there was no reasonable doubt that the defendant Germania Bank knew it, and made the transfer to escape
responsibility. In the present case the stock was never transferred to the defendant, and the transfer to Hand took place
within two months of the time of the original pledge, when
the Keystone Bank was supposed to be perfectly solvent, and
remained so for more than a year thereafter when the assessment of twenty-five per cent was made, the bank continuing
in business until June 29, 1897, more than six years after the
transfer to Hand.
In Anderson v. Philadeykia TFarehouse Co., 111 U. S. 479,
the law as laid down in the prior case was somewhat relaxed,
and a tendency manifested to look more closely at the equities.
In that case Blumer & Co. borrowed a sum of money from the
defendant, and as security for the loan transferred 450 shares
of stock of the First INational Bank of Allentown standing in
the name of one Kern, a partner in the firm of J3lumer & Co.,
on the books of the bank, and had a new certificate issued in
the name of one Henry, president of the defendant warehouse
company. The fact of the transfer of this stock to its president
was brought to the attention of the directors of the warehouse
company, who deemed it inadvisable to have the stock stand in
the name of the president, and it was therefore transferred to
one McCloskey, a porter in the employ of the company, and
irresponsible. McCloskey never had possession of the certificate, and at the request of the warehouse company, gave a
power of attorney for the sale and transfer of the stock, and
shortly thereafter died. The stock was subsequently transferred
to one Ferris, another employ6, also irresponsible. Dividends
were regularly paid on this stock to Kern, and the warehouse
company never acted as a shareholder. It was held that, as
there was no evidence of fraud or bad faith; as the warehouse
company was never the owner of the stock, and never held itself
out as such ; never consented to a transfer of stock on the books;
never claimed dividends, or acted as a shareholder, or ever pretended to be anything but a mere pledgee, it was not liable.

RANKIN v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Said the court: "The creditors were put in no worse position
by the transfers that were made than they would have been if
the stock had remained in the name of Kern or Blumer & Co.
who were always the real owners." It was held that, as the
defendant promptly declined to allow itself to stand as a registered shareholder, because it was unwilling to incur the liability
such a registry would impose, and asked that the transfer be
made to M'cCloskey, from that time the case stood precisely as
it would, if the transfer had been originally made to him instead
of to Henry, the president of the company. "All this was
done in good faith, when the bank was in good credit and paying large dividends, and years before its failure or even its embarrassment." The case differs from this only in the fact that
here there was some evidence (enough to go to the jury) that
defendant had held itself out as the owner of the shares.
In Pauly v. State Loan, & Trust Co., 165 U. S. 606, the stock
which was delivered to the defendant as collateral security was
reissued, and new certificates issued to the defendant as
It was held that, as the stock book gave informa"pledgee."
tion that the defendant held the stock as pledgee only, it was
not liable to an assessment. See also Robinson v. South. lVat.
Bank, 180 U. S. 295; NVat. Park Bank v. Hlarmon, '79 Fed.
Rep. 891 ; S. C., 172 U. S. 6414.
There is no doubt whatever that the defendant originally
took blank transfers of the certificates of stock in question as
security for its loan to the Delamaters ; that at that time the
stock was worth its face value, $23,000 ; had paid dividends
for twenty-seven years prior thereto, and was in good credit.
To charge the defendant with liability as a shareholder it must
be made to appear that it had either become the owner of the
shares in fact, or had held itself out to bethe owner, and thereby
estopped itself to deny its liability as such.
The first change in its attitude toward the stock took place
within two months after the original pledge, and was caused
by the failure of the Delamaters, which occurred within twenty
days after the loan was made. The change consisted in sending back, January 10, 1891, the original certificates, and requesting the bank to transfer the shares to Hand, which was

OCTOBER TERI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

done. Defendant evidently did not then intend to become the
owner of the stock, as immediately after receiving notice of the
failure of the Delamaters the vice president of the company
addressed a note to them, or their assignees, calling attention
to the note and the pledge of the stock, and saying that if they
were prepared to anticipate the payment of the note and have
the collateral returned, they would be glad to so arrange it;
and in a further letter of May 5, 1891, to the Delamaters, he
notified them that the note was secured by the Keystone Bank
stock, and "if we cannot secure payment for the note and interest, I have to notify you that we shall proceed to sell the
collateral at auction." It also appears that on July 7, 1892,
the vice president of the company addressed a letter to the auditor of the Delamater estate, notifying him of their claim
against that estate upon the note for $15,000, and stating that
the company held the shares of the Keystone Bank as collateral
for the loan. Thereafter, and on Mlarch 30, 1893, the company
received a dividend of $795.60, to which it was undoubtedly
entitled as pledgee.
Even so late as 1894 the vice president of the defendant company addressed a note to the Keystone Bank, requesting information regarding their business; whether there had been
any sales of the stock and at what price, and saying that "as
we have a loan of $22,000 depending upon the value of 172k
shares, we desire the above information." It is true that the
defendant in 1892 paid an assessment of $5750 upon this stock,
but the amount was charged to the Delamaters as an additional
advance, and was evidently paid to save its interest in the stock
from forfeiture. Rev. Stat. sec. 5205 as amended in 1876, 19
Stat. 64. It is not easy to see how the defendant could have
done otherwise than it did without prejudice to its own rights,
as well as to the rights of the assignees of the pledgors.
It is also evident that the assignees of the Delamaters treated
the interest of the defendant in the stock as a mere pledge,
since in their account filed in the Court of Common Pleas of
Crawford County, July 13,1896, they charge themselves in the
account as follows: "Equities in stocks and bonds, pledged as
collateral on loan unadjusted, as follows: (a)$23,000, stock of

RANKIN v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Keystone National Bank of Erie, pledged for a loan of
$15,000, appraised at $8000." Proof was offered that in this
account the assignees had made another entry, "said stock having been converted by the holder of the note, and said stock
having been assessed to the amount of 25 per cent of its face
value, did not sell for enough to pay the debt for which it was
pledged." This memorandum was excluded, and properly so,
by the court below, inasmuch as it was a mere assertion of fact
made by these assignees without the knowledge of the defendant. The company could not be bound by a statement thus
made by these assignees without its knowledge or acquiescence.
Again, it was obviously untrue, as the stock had never been
sold. Evidently all that was intended by the word "converted"
was that the stock was not worth enough "to pay the debt for
which it was pledged." There can be no doubt that defendant
would have been willing at any time to surrender the stock upon
payment of the debt, and that it retained it simply because it
was forced to do so.
It is also true that a number of letters were written during
the time the defendant held possession of its certificates, in
which it made inquiries as to the value of the stock, the number of sales made, and spoke of itself as holding or owning the
stock which it desired to sell, and that Hand once or twice
voted the shares by proxy; but the bank clearly could not
have been misled, as the nature of such ownership was shown
in the letter of April 4, 1894, in which they spoke of a loan of
$22,000 depending upon the value of 1121 shares, and repeatedly thereafter, and as late as April, 189'T, said they were anxious to sell this stock "to close an account" for which it was
collateral.
If such representations had been made either by a formal
entry upon the books of the bank or to the public, or to any
one who could have been prejudiced by them, defendant might
be held to be estopped, but as they were made to officers of
the bank, who understood perfectly the capacity in which the
defendant retained the stock, it was properly held to be a question for the jury.
Plaintiff also offered to show in the stock ledger of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

bank over the name of W. W. Hand, in an account opened
with him at the request of the defendant, a pencil memorandum
at the top of the page in these words: "Fidelity Trust and
Safe Deposit Company, Philadelphia." As it does not appear
who made this memorandum, when or for what purpose it was
made, or what it was intended to indicate, it was properly excluded from the consideration of the jury. It was probably
explanatory of the fact that correspondence with regard to
Hand's account was kept up with the defendant company. It
had no tendency, however, to show anything inconsistent with
defendant's position as pledgee of the stock. As the stock
stood in Hand's name, the entry had no tendency to prove
ownership in another. Caraey v. Williarns,79 Fed. Rep. 906;
Sigua Iron Co. v. Greene, 104 Fed. Rep. 854.
The fact that the certificates were put in the name of Hand,
though calculated upon its face to awaken suspicion, wrought
no material change in the situation. If defendant were in fact
the owner of the shares, it could not avoid liability by listing
them in the name of another. 3rational Bank v. Case, 99 U.
S. 628. If it were the pledgee, it had the option of listing
these shares in its own name as pledgee, Pauly v. State Loan
& rust Co., 165 U. S. 606 ; or in the name of another and irresponsible party, even though this were done for the purpose
of avoiding liability, And7erson v. Phdacleljp ia TVareho se Co.,
111 U. S. 479. The creditors were not injured, since if the
exact truth had appeared upon the face of the certificates,
by registering the shares as pledgee, they would have had no
recourse against the defendant. Upon the other band, if defendant had really owned the shares, it would have been a
fraud to list them in the name of Iand. Perhaps it would
have been less open to criticism to have listed them in its own
name as pledgee, but as its failure to do so under the theory of
the defendant that it was in fact the pledgee, misled no one, it
should not be held liable for what was done in good faith and
with no intent to defraud.
The case then really turned upon the actual ownership of the
shares, and this question was properly left to the jury as one of
fact. Although the construction of written instruments is one

RANKIN v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the court, where the case turns upon the proper conclusions
to be drawn from a series of letters, particularly of a commercial character, taken in connection with other facts and circumstances, it is one which is properly referred to a jury. Brown
v. Xo Gran, 14 Pet. 479. In that case it was said by Mr. Justice Story that "there certainly are cases, in which, from the
different senses of the words used, or their obscure and indeterminate reference to unexplained circumstanbes, the true interpretation of the language may be left to the consideration of
the jury, for the purpose of carrying into effect the real intention of the parties. This is especially applicable to cases of
commercial correspondence, where the real objects, and intentions, and agreements of the parties, are often to be arrived at
only by allusions to circumstances which are but imperfectly developed." This case is specially applicable to the one under consideration, inasmuch as plaintiff relies chiefly upon the fact that
defendant, in its correspondence with the bank, spoke of itself
as owning or holding the shares standing in the name of Hand.
Under the circumstances, it is entirely possible that the word
"owner" may have been used in its ordinary sense, or as representing a pledgee upon whom the ownership of the shares
had been cast by the failure of the pledgor, and the depreciation of the value of the shares to an amount insufficient to pay
the note. It can hardly be possible that the statute was intended to impose a liability upon a pledgee, who had taken the
shares as collateral security and, through the failure of the
pledgors, had been forced against its will into the position of
ownership. Such a result might operate to destroy altogether
the possibility of raising money upon the deposit of national
bank shares as collateral. See also Fagin v. Connoly, 25 Missouri, 94; P'atherv. Ross, 17 Indiana, 495; Roberts v. Bonapa te, 73 Maryland, 191; Xacdonald v. Xorrill, 154 Massachusetts, 270.
This case could only have been withdrawn from the jury upon
the theory that, taking all the testimony together, there could
be but one reasonable interpretation put upon the conduct of
the defendant with respect to these certificates. Such, in our
opinion, is not the case. The fact undoubtedly was that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

defendant did not intend to impose upon itself the statutory
liability of a shareholder, and considering that it had not only
lost its original debt of $15,000 (less a small dividend) by the
failure of the Delamaters, as well as the additional assessment
of $5750 paid to save the shares from forfeiture, that there was
no evidence of fraud or double dealing in its conduct, and that
its liability was purely a technical one, it was not unnatural for
the jury to require that such liability should be clearly established, before imposing upon it an additional burden of $17,250,
for which it had received no possible consideration.
Some stress is laid by the plaintiff upon the fact that neither
the Delamaters nor their assignees ever gave their consent to
the transfer of the stock to Hand, but as the power of attorney
originally given upon the deposit of the stock expressly authorized such transfer, and the rights of the defendant could only
be protected in that way, there is no force in the objection, particularly in view of the fact that neither the Delamaters nor
their assignees complained of such transfer. Being an act which
it was authorized to take as pledgee, it cannot be made reponsible as owner therefor.
There was no error in the action of the Court of Appeals, and
its judgment is therefore
Af rmed.
MR. JUSTIO] HARLAN dissented.

