OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

L. ID.369; Brady v. Williams, 23 L. ]D. 533; 25 L. D. 55; 25
L. D. 402.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Okdahama is
-Afflrmed.
M.R. JuSTIoE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE PE0RHAm dissented.

SAWYER v. PIPER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TiE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 225. Argued April 6, 7, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

The mere averment of the existence of a Federal question is not sufficient
to give this court jurisdiction, but as held in Hamblin v. Mestern Land
Company, 147 U. S. 531, a real, and nor a fictitious, Federal question is
essential to the jurisdiction of this court over the .judgments of state
courts. Where the only Federal question alleged is that the refusal of the
state court to allow the plaintiff in error to file a supplementary answer
in a suit, in which foreclosure and sale had been decreed and sustained
by the highest court of the State, was a taking of property without due
process of law, and a denial of the equal protection of the laws, and the
trial court does not appear to have abused its discretion, there is no real
Federal question involved and the writ of error will be dismissed.

ON April 27, 1897, Daniel S. Piper, the defendant in error,
commenced a suit in the District Court of Steele County, MAlinnesota, against the plaintiffs in error and L. C. Woodman. The
complaint alleged the ownership by the Sawyers of a tract containing 790 acres, upon which were several mortgages, all of
them fully set forth and all belonging to the plaintiff. It also
averred an agreement, made on February 19, 1895, by the terms
of which the Sawyers were to pay plaintiff the sum of $20,400,
with, in addition, monthly payments of $100 ; that the Sawyers
were to convey the land to plaintiff; that he should execute a
deed to them, the deed to be placed in escrow in the hands of
Woodman, the other defendant, and to be delivered to them
on full payment of the sums named ; with a proviso that upon

SAWYER v. PIPER.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

failure of the Sawyers to make payment of the $20,400, with
the monthly additions of $100, all their rights under the contract should cease and determine. The complaint further alleged a failure to make the monthly payments. The prayer
was for a judgment of strict foreclosure of the contract unless
redeemed within a year by the payment of the amount due with
interest, or, in the alternative, if the court should deem it inequitable to adjudge a strict foreclosure, that the contract and
all the mortgages be foreclosed by the sale of the mortgaged
premises, and for such other and further relief as should seem
just and equitable. The defendant Woodman, who held the
deed in escrow, made no defence. The Sawyers answered, admitting the allegations of the complaint in respect to the mortgages and contract, and alleged that by such contract the amount
due the plaintiff was fixed at $20,400, which included interest
upon all the mortgages up to February 19, 1895. They also
averred that the plaintiff had commenced in the same court an
action of ejectment, which was still pending, and therefore this
action should be abated. In his reply the plaintiff admitted
the commencement of the action of ejectment, but alleged that
it had been dismissed prior to this suit. On the trial the Sawyers offered the plaintiff a decree of foreclosure for the $20,400,
named in the contract, and all unpaid monthly payments, which
offer was declined. The court thereupon found the facts in
respect to the mortgages and agreement as alleged in the complaint; ruled that such agreement did not extinguish by merger
or otherwise the several mortgages, and that the plaintiff was
entitled to foreclosure of each of the mortgages for the amount
due thereon, and rendered judgment of foreclosure and sale accordingly. The case was taken to the Supreme Court of the
State, which held, 73 Minnesota, 332, that the prior mortgages
were merged in the agreement, which created an equitable mortgage on the land, and remanded the case with instructions to the
court below to determine the amount due upon such equitable
mortgage and amend its findings of fact and conclusions of law
accordingly. On the second trial, the Sawyers applied for leave
to file a supplementary answer, setting forth their offer on the
first trial to let judgment and decree be entered for the fore-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

closure of the equitable mortgage and the refusal of the plaintiff to accept such offer, and asserting that thereby the plaintiff
had waived the lien of such equitable mortgage and precluded
himself from foreclosing the same; and further, that a judgment in plaintiff's favor foreclosing said lien for any sum would
deprive them of property without due process of law and deny
to them the equal protection of the laws. The court declined
to permit the filing of such supplementary answer, amended its
findings of fact and conclusions of law, so as to show that the
defendants had defaulted in the monthly payments referred to,
and that therefore the equitable mortgage had become due,
and entered a decree of foreclosure thereof and for the sale of
the mortgaged premises. This decree was taken to the Supreme
Court and affirmed, '8 Minnesota, 221, and thereupon this writ
of error was sued out.
_Lr. Joseph A. Sawyer for plaintiffs in error.
Childs was on the brief.

libff.

IV.

.31r. Robert Taylor for defendant in error. -M'.Frank B.
.Kellogg, ff,&. TFesley A. Sperry and _Mi'. Lewis L. Wlheelock
were on the brief.
1B. JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the, court.
In their application for leave to file a supplementary answer
the plaintiffs in error averred that to render a decree foreclosing
the equitable mortgage would, under the circumstances, be a
taking of property without due process of law and denying to
them the equal protection of the laws, and claimed "the protection guaranteed to all citizens of the United States by the
provisions of section 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the
United States and of section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States." While they thus
asserted the existence of a Federal question, yet it is well settled
that the mere averment of such a question is not sufficient. As
said in Eamblin v. Western Land Company, 14'7 U. S. 531, 532:

SAWYER v. PIPER.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"A real, and not a fictitious, Federal question is essential to
the jurisdiction of this court over the judgments of state courts.
Mlfillinger v. Flcartupee, 6 Wall. 258 ; .New Orleansv. New Orleans TVater Vorks Co., 142 U. S. 79, 87. In the latter case it
was said that ' the bare averment of a Federal question is not
in all cases sufficient. It must not be wholly without foundation. There must be at least color of ground for such averment,
otherwise a Federal question might be set up in almost any
case, and the jurisdiction of this court invoked simply for the
purpose of delay.'
See also Wfilson v.North Carolina,169 U. S.586; St. Joseph
& Grandisland RailroadCo. v. Steele, 167 U. S. 659 ; New Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336.
We think this case comes within that rule. Rulings in re
spect to the amendment of pleadings are largely within the discretion of the trial court, and unless a gross abuse of that
discretion is shown there is no ground for reversal. Gormley
v. Bunyan, 138 U. S. 623. Here the trial court refused to permit any amendment of the pleadings, for a supplementary answer is substantially such an amendment. We cannot see that
the trial court abused its discretion, even if that were a Federal
question and properly before us for consideration. All the facts
in reference to the original mortgages and the agreement were
set forth in full in the original complaint, and relief was asked
in the alternative-either a strict foreclosure of the agreement,
or, if that were deemed inequitable, a foreclosure of the original
mortgages. The defendants in their answer set up all their
defences to plaintiff's claim of relief upon the facts stated in the
complaint. That at the hearing they offered to consent to a
decree of foreclosure of the equitable mortgage created by the
agreement (which offer was declined by the plaintiff) did not
pay the debt or release the property from the liens. Debts are
not paid nor liens cancelled in that way. A defendant cannot
by offering on a trial to consent to a judgment or decree for
a part of the claim sued on, prevent the plaintiff from subsequently obtaining the judgment or decree demanded by the
facts of the case, although it be that which had been offered
and also declined. All the facts were before the trial court as

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

189 U. S.

well as the Supreme Court, and the decision was that which
right and justice demanded. There is no merit in the defence
which was sought to be interposed, and certainly nothing which
calls upon this court to interfere with the decision of the state
court.

The writ of error is
Dismissed.

THE OSCEOLA.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 98. Argued December 2, 1902.-Decided March 2, 1903.

I. The law both in England and America is settled as to the following
propositions:
(1) That a vessel and her owners are liable, in case a seaman falls Aick or
is wounded in the service of the ship, to the extent of his maintenance and cure, and to his, wages, at least so long as the voyage is
continued.
(2) That the vessel and her owners are, both by English and American
law, liable to an indemnity for injuries received by seamen in consequence of the unseaworthiness of the ship, or a failure to supply
and keep in order the proper appliances appurtenant to such ship.
(3) That all the members of the crew, except perhaps the master, are, as
between themselves, fellow servants, and hence seamen cannot recover for injuries sustained through the negligence of another
member of the crew beyond the expense of their maintenance and
cure.

(4.) That the seaman is not allowed to recover an indemnity for the negligence of the master, or any member of the crew, but is entitled
to maintenance and cure, whether the injuries were received from
negligence or accident.
2. Section 3348, Rev. Stat. of 1898 of Wisconsin, providing that every ship,
boat or vessel used in navigating the waters of that State shall be liable
for all damages arising from injuries done to persons or property thereby,
and that the claim therefor shall constitute a lien upon such ship, boat
or vessel, is confined to cases where the damage is done by those in charge
of a ship, with the ship as the "offending thing." Cases of damages
done on board the ship are not, within the meaning of the act, damages
done by the ship. Such statute does not create a lien which can be en-

