OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

add that we do not perceive that there was any abuse of discretion in permitting the amendment in the circumstances disclosed. Mexican Central Riailway Company v. Pinkney, 149
U. S. 194, 201; T.emaine v. Hitchcock, 23 Wall. 518. If the
statutes of Texas forbade such an amendment, the law of the
United States must govern. Phelps v. Oaks, 117 U. S. 236;
Southern Pacific Company v. .Denton, 146 U. S. 202.
The suggestion that defendant was cut off from trying the
fact as to plaintiff's citizenship is without merit. The record
does not disclose that defendant sought to contest plaintiff's
affidavit, and for aught that appears the fact may have been
conceded.
Judgment affirmed.

JAQUITH v. ALDEN.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.

No. 516. Submitted January 12, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

Payments on a running account, in the usual course of business, by a person whose property had actually become insufficient to pay his debts,
where new sales succeeded payments and the net result was to increase
his estate, and the seller had no knowledge or notice of the insolvency
and no reason to believe an intention to prefer, are not preferences,

which must be surrendered as a condition to the allowance of proof of
claim, under the bankruptcy act of 1898.
Piriev. Chicago Title and Trust Company, 182 U. S. 438, in which the decision proceeded on the finding of facts made pursuant to clause 3 of
General Orders in Bankruptcy, XXXVI, distinguished.

F. N. WOODWARD et al. filed their petition in bankruptcy and
were adjudicated bankrupts November 26, 1901. They had
become insolvent August 15, and on that day were not indebted to G. Edwin Alden, who, afterwards, in ignorance of
the insolvency, made sales to Woodward et al. and received
payments from them therefor in the regular course of business,

JAQUIFH v. ALDEN.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and without any idea or intention on the part of Alden of
obtaining a preference thereby, the sales and payments being
as follows:
"Sales.
"Aug. 17, 1901. Rubber ...
28,
"
............
Sept. 30,
"
".
...........
Oct. 18, "
".
...........
Oct. 18,
"
Cartage ..........
31, "
Asbestine ...........

.........

.$289
657
644
535
..
...
10

46
89
28
99
50
40

" Payments.

"Sept.

4, 1901. Payment of bill Aug. 17
28, "
"
" "
28
Oct. 29, "
"
"
" Sept. 30

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

$289 46
657 89
644 28"

The merchandise sold Woodward et al. was manufactured
by them, and the result of the transactions was to increase
their estate in value. Alden petitioned to be allowed to prove
his claim of $546.89.
The referee disallowed the claim unless at least the amount
of $633.88 was surrendered to the estate. The District Judge
reversed the judgment of the referee and allowed the claim,
and the decree of the District Court was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 118 Fed. Rep. 270, on the authority of
-Dickson v. Wyman, 111 Fed. Rep. 726. Thereupon an appeal
to this court was allowed and a certificate granted under section 25, 6, 2.
kMI.

H J. Jaquith, appellant, pro se.

-Mi-.Eugene XI. Johnson, .211. Arthum
Alonzo B. Weed for appellee.

T. Johnson and Xr.

MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts found established that on August 15 the aggregate

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

of the property of the bankrupts was not, at a fair valuation,
sufficient in amount to pay their debts, but that Alden was
ignorant of this, and in good faith and in the regular course of
business sold material to the bankrupts, and received payment
therefor, several times between August 15 and November 26,
when the petition was filed, on which day the amount of
$546.89 for material delivered shortly before had not been
paid. All the material so sold to them was manufactured by
the bankrupts and increased their estate in value.
The question is whether the payments made to Alden (or
either of them) were preferences within section 60 of the bankruptcy act of 1898, which must be surrendered under section
57g, before his claim could be allowed.
Provisions of the act bearing on the subject are given below.,
Z" SECTION la. The words and phrases used in this act and in proceedings pursuant hereto shall, unless the same be inconsistent with the con(9) 'creditor' shall include any
text, be construed as follows: . .
one who owns a demand or claim provable in bankruptcy, and may include his duly authorized agent, attorney, or proxy; (10) ' date of bankruptcy,' or ' time of bankruptcy,' or 'commencement of proceedings,' or
' bankruptcy,' with reference to time, shall mean the date when the petition
was filed; (11) 'debt' shall include any debt, demand, or claim provable in
(15) a person shall be deemed insolvent within the
'bankruptcy'; •
provisions of this act whenever the aggregate of his property, exclusive of
any property which he may have conveyed, transferred, concealed, or removed, or permitted to be concealed or removed, with intent to defraud,
hinder or delay his creditors, shall not, at a fair valuation, be sufficient in
amount to pay his debts."
"SEc. 3a. Acts of bankruptcy by a person shall consist of his having
(1) conveyed, transferred, concealed, or removed, or permitted to be concealed or removed, any part of his property with intent to hinder, delay, or
defraud his creditors, or any of them; or (2) transferred, while insolvent,
any portion of his property to one or more of his creditors with intent to
prefer such creditors over his other creditors; or (3) suffered or permitted,
while insolvent, any creditor to obtain a preference through legal proceedings, and not having at least five days before a sale or final disposition of
any property affected by such preference vacated or discharged such preference; or (4) made a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors;
or (5) admitted in writing his inability to pay his debts and his willingness
to be adjudged a bankrupt on that ground."
"SEc, 00a. A person shall be deemed to have given a preference if, being

JAQUITH v. ALDEN.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Pirie v. Chicago Title & Trust Company, 182 U. S. 438,
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit had affirmed an order of the District Court for the Northern District
of Illinois, rejecting a claim of Carson, Pirie and Company
against the estate of Frank Brothers, bankrupts, and the case
was then brought to this court on findings of fact and conclusions of law of the Circuit Court of Appeals made and filed
"pursuant to the requirements of subdivision 3, Rule 36 of
General Orders in Bankruptcy." The three first of the findings were as follows:
"First. That on February 11, 1899, August Frank, Joseph
Frank and Louis Frank, trading as Frank Brothers, were duly
adjudged bankrupts.
"Second. That for a long time prior thereto appellants carried on dealings with the said bankrupt firm,said dealings consisting of a sale by said appellants to said Frank Brothers of
goods, wares and merchandise amounting to the total sum of
$4403.71.
"Third. That said appellants in the regular and ordinary
insolvent, he has procured or suffered a judgment to be entered against
himself in favor of any person, or made a transfer of any of his property,
and the effect of the enforcement of such judgment or transfer will be to
enable any one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt
than any other of such creditors of the same class.
" b. If a bankrupt shall have given a preference within four months before the filing of a petition, or after the filing of the petition and before
the adjudication, and the person receiving it, or to be benefited thereby, or
his agent acting therein, shall have had reasonable cause to believe that it
was intended thereby to give a preference, it shall be voidable by the trustee, and he may recover the property or its value from such person.
"c. If a creditor has been preferred, and afterwards in good faith gives
the debtor further credit without security of any kind for property which
becomes a part of the debtor's estates, the amount of such new credit remaining unpaid at the time of the adjudication in bankruptcy may be set
off against the amount which would otherwise be recoverable from him."
" SEC. 57g. The claims of creditors who have received preferences shall
not be allowed unless such creditors shall surrender their preferences."
"SEC. 68a. In all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits between the
estate of a bankrupt and a creditor the account shall be stated and one
debt shall be set off against the other, and the balance only shall be allowed
or paid."
VOL. cmxxxix-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

course of business, and within four months prior to the adjudication in bankruptcy herein, did collect and receive from said
bankrupts as partial payment of said account for such goods,
wares and merchandise so sold and delivered to said Frank
Brothers, the sum of 81336.19, leaving a balance due, owing
and unpaid, amounting to $3093.98."
It was further found that at the time this payment was made
Frank Brothers were hopelessly insolvent to their knowledge;
but that Carson, Pirie and Company had no knowledge of such
insolvency nor had reasonable cause to believe that it existed,
nor did they have reasonable cause to believe that the bankrupts by the payment intended thereby to give a preference;
and that they had refused to surrender to the trustee the
amount of the payment made to them by the bankrupts as a
condition of the allowance of their claim. Upon the facts the
Circuit Court of Appeals concluded as matter of law that the
payment made "at the time and in the manner above shown,"
constituted a preference, and that by reason of the failure and
refusal of Carson, Pirie and Company to surrender the preference they were not entitled to prove their claim.
The judgment below was affirmed by this court, and it was
held that a payment of money was a transfer of property, and
when made on an antecedent debt by an insolvent was a preference within section 60a, although the creditor was ignorant
of the insolvency and had no reasonable cause to believe that a
preference was intended. The estate of the insolvent, as it existed at the date of the insolvency, was diminished by the payment, and the creditor who received it was enabled to obtain a
greater percentage of his debt than any other of the creditors
of the same class.
In the present case all the rubber was sold and delivered
after the bankrupts' property bad actually become insufficient
to pay their debts, and their estate was increased in value
thereby to an amount in excess of the payments made. The
account was a running account, and the effect of the payments
was to keep it alive by the extension of new credits, with the
net result of a gain to the estate of $546.89, and a loss to the
seller of that amount less such dividends as the estate might

JAQUITH v. ALDEN.
189 U. S.

JUSTICES WHITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

pay. In these circumstances the payments were no more
preferences than if the purchases had been for cash, and, as
parts of one continuous bonafide transaction, the law does not
demand the segregation of the purchases into independent
items so as to create distinct preexisting debts, thereby putting
the seller in the same class as creditors already so situated, and
impressing payments with the character of the acquisition of
a greater percentage of a total indebtedness thus made up.
We do not think the slight variation in the dates of sales and
payments affords sufficient ground for the distinction put forward by counsel between the payments of September 4 and 28
and the payment of October 29 (which he concedes should be
upheld) in their relation to the rubber furnished August 17 and
28 and September 30. All the material was sold and delivered
after August 15, and neither of the items can properly be
singled out as constituting outstanding indebtedness, payment
of which operated as a preference.
The facts as found in Pirie v. Trust Com2any were so entirely different from those existing here that this case is not
controlled by that. In view of similar vital differences it has
been held by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit,
-Dicksonv. Wyman, 111 Fed. Rep. 726; Second Circuit, ITn 'e
Sagor and Brother, 9 Am. Bank. Rep. 361; Third Circuit,
Gans v. Ellison, 114 Fed. Rep. '734 ; Eighth Circuit, Kimball
v. Rosen am Company, 114 Fed. Rep. 85, that payments on a
running account, where new sales succeed payments and the
net result is to increase the value of the estate, do not constitute preferential transfers under section 60a.
Judgment afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE IcEIENNA, not being
able to concur in the reasons by which the court in the opinion
just announced distinguishes this case from that of Pirne v.
Chicago Title & Trust Co., and deeming the latter case controlling in this, dissent.

