GLIDDEN v. HARRINGTON.
189 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

GLIDDEN v. HARRINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 199. Argued' March 12, 1903.-Decided April 6, 1903.
Although this court has never had occasion to determine exactly what the
Fourteenth Amendment required in the assessment of ordinary annual
taxes upon personal property, such proceedings should be construed with
the utmost liberality and while notice may be required at some stage of
tile proceedings such notice need not be personal, but may be given by
publication or by posting notices in public places. Such notices must be
suitable and it is only where the proceedings are arbitrary, oppressive or
unjust that they are declared to be not due process of law.
The statute of Massachusetts which requires that all personal estate within
or without the Commonwealth shall be assessed to the owner; that personal property held in trust, the income of which is payable to another
person, shall be assessed to the trustee in the city or town in which such
other person resides, if within the Commonwealth; and if he resides out
of the Commonwealth, shall be assessed in the place where the trustee
resides; that the assessors before making the assessment shall give notice by posting in some public place or places; that in case the taxpayer shall fail to make returns they shall ascertain as nearly as possible
the particulars of the estate and estimated value, which shall be conclusive upon the owner unless he can show a reasonable excuse for omitting to make the return; also making provision for an application to the
assessors for an abatement of taxes and for an appeal to the county commissioners, does not deprive taxpayers of their property without due
process of law.
A person residing in Massachusetts and holding property in trust has the
same opportunity to show that he held no property in trust as he has in
regard to his individual property, and it is as much his duty to disclose
it as though it were individual property.

THis was an action brought in the Superior Court of Middlesex County by Harrington, collector of taxes for the city of
Lowell, to recover a tax upon personal property, assessed upon
the defendant as trustee, for the year 1889.
The case resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff, which was
carried by exceptions to the Supreme Judicial Court, where the
exceptions were ordered overruled, 1'[9 Massachusetts, 486, and
the case remanded to the Superior Court, in which judgment
was entered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

-Mr.Harvey -h. kepard for plaintiff in error.
_tr. George F. Richardson for defendant in error. .Mr.
FiancisWf. Qua and Mr. William 'A. Hogan were with him on
the brief.
JUSTicE Bnowx, after making the foregoing statement,
MRA.
delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the question whether the proceedings taken
to enforce this tax deprived the defendant Glidden of his property without due process of law, within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The facts of the case are substantially that a resolution for
the assessment of taxes for the year 1889 was passed by the
municipal council of Lowell, and approved by the mayor on
March 22 of that year; and it was ordered that a copy of the
resolution be furnished to the assessors on or before April 1.
Before proceeding to make the assessment, the assessors, in the
latter part of April, gave proper notice to the inhabitants of the
city, by posting in public places in the several wards of said
city, notifications that they were about to assess taxes, and requiring the inhabitants to bring into the assessor's office on or
before June 15 of that year true lists of their polls and personal
estates not exempt from taxation.
Two members of the board of assessors were appointed a
committee " to inquire into telephone matters for taxation."
The committee "advised that a suitable person be sent to Albany to look up matters in that direction," which committee
was authorized by the board to use its discretion in the matter.
The expert employed by the committee to look up foreign corporations reported stock of the Erie Telegraph and Telephone
Company held by individuals in Lowell, and mentioned seven
trustees, one of whom was the defendant. On July 25, 1889,
the board "voted to tax (assess) the directors of the Erie Telegraph and Telephone Company as trustees $160,000 each."
There were $1,600,000 held by ten trustees, of which the defendant was one. No list of personal estate held in trust had

GLIDDEN v. HARRINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

been or was submitted by defendant. The tax bill, as trustee,
was delivered personally to the defendant about September first.
About two months after such assessment, September 10, the
warrant for the collection of the taxes was put in the hands of
the collector.
On February 24, 1890, defendant filed a statement to the
effect that, although he was informed that certain shares of
stock stood in his name as trustee, he was not the owner of the
shares and not taxable therefor, and thereupon made application as trustee for an abatement, upon which application a
number of hearings were had. But before the proceedings
were determined this action was brought by a succeeding collector.
Upon the trial in the Superior Court it appeared that the defendant was assessed as trustee upon certain shares of three telephone companies, which the assessors understood were held by
him in trust for the Erie Telegraph and Telephone Company.
The basis of valuation adopted by the assessors was the market price of the shares of this latter company. Defendant
offered evidence tending to show that at the time of the assessment he owned no personal property whatever as trustee;
that said shares were owned by the Erie Telegraph and Telephone Company and were in its possession and control, although
they stood in his name; and further evidence tending to show
that said property was not taxable to him, and was not within
the jurisdiction of the assessors or of the State. This evidence
was excluded by the court, which ruled that the only questions
for the jury were " whether the assessors ascertained as nearly
as possible the particulars of the estate held by the defendant
as trustee, for the purpose of making this assessment, and
whether, having obtained those particulars, they estimated
such property at its just value according to their best judgment, information and belief."
The court held the validity of the tax to depend upon the
question whether the assessors had jurisdiction to make the
assessment. Having found that the defendant was an inhabitant of Lowell and had taxable personal property there, it
was thought that he was within the jurisdiction of the asVOL.

cLxxx-X-17

OCTOBER TERI,

1902.

Opinion of the Court.

189 U. S.

sessors, and that it made no difference whether such property
was all held by him individually, or partly as individual and
partly as trustee, inasmuch as it was all a personal tax. The
court, having held that the proceedings conformed to the state
statute, and that defendant's only remedy was the statutory
proceeding for abatement, it only remains for us to consider
whether these proceedings constitute due process of law within
the Fourteenth Amendment.
This was not a special assessment, but the ordinary annual
tax upon personal property. The act requires that all personal
estate, within or without the Commonwealth, shall be assessed
to the owner; that personal property held in trust, the income
of which is payable to another person, shall be assessed to the
trustee in the city or town in which such other person resides,
if within the Commonwealth; and if he resides out of the
Commonwealth shall be assessed in the place where the trustee resides. Before making the assessment the assessors shall
give notice by posting in some public place or places; that in
case the taxpayer shall fail to make return, they shall ascertain, as nearly as possible, the particulars of the estate and estimate its just value, which shall be conclusive upon the owner,
unless he can show a reasonable excuse for omitting to make
his return. Provision is also made for an application to the
assessors for an abatement of taxes; and for an appeal to the
county commissioners in case of a refusal of the assessors to
abate the tax.
These proceedings are amply sufficient to constitute due process of law. Although, with respect to this class of taxes, we have
never had occasion to determine exactly what the Fourteenth
Amendment required, we have held that the proceedings should
be construed with the utmost liberality, and while a notice may
be required at some stage of the proceedings such notice need
not be personal, but may be given by publication or by posting
notices in public places. It can only be said that such notices
shall be given as are suitable in a given case, and it is only
where the proceedings are arbitrary, oppressive or unjust that
they are declared to be not due process of law. Davidson v.
few Orleans, 96 U. S. 97 ; Hagar v. Reclamation District,111

GLIDDEN v. HARRINGTON.
189 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 701 ; Paulsen v. Portland,149 U. S. 30 ; Pittsburgh&c.
Railway Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421; Allen v. Georgia, 166
U. S. 138; Ifing v. Portland,184 U. S. 61; Simon, v. ( raft,
182 U. S. 427; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51.
In the IZentucky Railroad Tax cases, 115 U. S. 321, it was
held that a state statute for the assessment of taxes, which gave
notice of the proposed assessment to the owner by requiring
him at a time named to present a statement of his property,
with an estimate of its value, which fixed time and place for
public sessions of other officers, at which this statement and estimate were to be considered, where the party interested had a
right to be present and to be heard, and which gave him opportunity to judicially contest the validity of the proceedings,
was due process of law within the Fourteenth Amendment. In
Lent v. Tillsom, 140 U. S. 316, it was held that in a case of a
special assessment for widening streets, publication in a newspaper was sufficient notice to property owners interested.
The complaint in this case is based upon the proposition thus
stated by plaintiff : That it is not due process of law for a State
"to compel a man, who holds no property in trust and makes
no return to the assessors, to pay a tax assessed against him as
such trustee, without opportunity to show that he held no property in trust." This proposition, however, assumes that no opportunity was given the defendant to show that he held no
property in trust, when the fact was that.public notice was
given the inhabitants to produce before the assessors a list of
their personal estates, among which there was specified by the
statute personal property held in trust. Defendant did not
choose to comply with that notice by submitting a list of the
property held by him in trust, although he subsequently made
application for abatement, upon which application a number of
hearings were had. Upon his failure to make his returns the
assessors did the only thing they could do: ascertain as nearly
as possible the particulars of the personal estate and estimate
it at what they believed its just value. If defendant held personal property as trustee it was as much his duty to disclose it
as if it had been individual property, and his contention now,
that he had no reason to anticipate that he would be taxed for

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

189 U. S.

property held in trust, because he held none, is met by the fact
that he applied for an abatement of this tax, and that, after
several hearings upon the case, it was refused him. .Kentucy
]Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 335.
There was nothing in the proceedings of which the plaintiff
had any right to complain as a violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and the judgment of the Superior Court is therefore
MR. JusTicE WHITE, not having heard the argument, took no
part in the decision of this case.

WISER v. LAWLER.
ATPPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 174. Argued February 25, 26, 1903.-Decided April 27, 1903.

Promoters of mining enterprises, in the preparation of prospectuses, are
bound to consider the effect that would be produced upon an ordinary
mind by the statements contained in them, and in estimating the probability of persons being misled by them, the court may take into consideration not only the facts stated, but the facts suppressed.
Vendors of mining properties are not responsible for false statements made
in prospectuses issued by a mining company to whom the properties had
been sold, unless they knew or connived in such statements, or were active in putting them in circulation. While they may have known that
prospectuses were being issued, they were under no obligation to read
them, or contradict their statements or promises, or interfere with their
circulation or distribution.
If their title be of record, they are not bound to give notice of their rights
in the property to the purchasers of stock, or to refuse the money due
upon their contract of sale when it is tendered them.
To constitute an estoppel bysilence there must not only be an opportunity
but an obligation to speak, and the purchase must have been iq reljance
2
°
upon the conduct of the party sought to be estopped. £21,5./,
upon record, is
placed
has
he
which
property
of
a
deed
holding
person
A
not ordinarily bound to disclose his title to persons contemplating purchasing, or making improvements upon the land, unless his silence be
deceptive, or accompanied by an intention to defraud.

THis was a complaint in the nature of a bill in equity filed in
the District Court of Yavapai County, Arizona, by appellants,

