OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. 8.

of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Section 238 (a) of
the Judicial Code, Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42
Stat. 837. ,Smith,v. Apple, 264 U. S. 274.
It so ordered.
BROOKS-SCANLON
-UNITED STATES

CORPORATION v. UNITED
STATES.
v. BROOKS-SCANLON
PORATION.

COR-

APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 357, 385.

Argued January 8, 1924.-Decided May 12, 1924.

1. Orders of the Emergency Beet Corporation directed to a shipbuilder expropriated a vessel in process of construction under a
contract between the builder and the plaintiff, together with the
materials purchased by the builder for its completion, the benefits
and advantages of payments made, and of plans, specifications
and prior inspection service provided, by the plaintiff, and placed
the Feet Corporation in the plaintiff's shoes with respect to the
past and future execution of the contract by the builder. The
United States thus obtained the ship early and the benefit of
prices much lower than those prevailing at time of requisition.
Held:
(a) That the plaintiff's rights ftinder the contract with the builder
were taken. F. 119.
(b) That the just compensation to which the plaintiff was entitled
did not depend upon the title to the materials used in the construction, and was not to. be gauged by the progress payments
made, or by the compensation payable if the Government had.
merely candeled the contract; but was to be measured by the
value of the plaintiff's rights under the contract at the time of
the taking. P. 121.
(c) Just compensation is the sum "which, considering all the circumstances, uncertainties of the war, etc, probably could have
been obtained for an assignment of the plaintiff' rights under the
contract, i. e.. the. sum that would in all 'probability result from
fair-negotiations between an owner willing to sell and a purchaser
desirous of buying. P. 123.

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
f06

107

Argument for Brooks-Scanlon Corp.

(d) The value of such'ships at the time of. requisition, the. then
.probable value at the time fixed for delivery, the contract price,
;payments made and to be made, the time to elapse before completion and delivery, the possibility that, by reason of the Government's activity in controlling materials, the contractor might
not have been ible tb complete the ship on thie, loss of the"use
of money to be sustained; other expenditures to be made between
requisition and delivery,-all should, be given consideratidn in
determining the-plaintiff's loss caused by the taking. F. 125.
2. Replacement cost not necessarily the sole measure of or guide to
value in ascertaining just compeusation. 1i.
58 Ct. Chms. 274, reversed.
*APpnL and cross appeal from a judgment of the Court
of Clai~ms in an action to recover, a balance alleged to be
due as just compensation for the taking by thd Shipping
Board of the plaintiffs rights under a contract for the

construction of a ship.
* Mr. John Junell, with whom Mr. William A. Lancast6r,
Mr. David F. Simpson and-Mr. Edward P. Sanborn were.
on the brief; for Brooks-Scanlon Corporation.
Plaintiff's contract was property within the protection
of the Fifth Amendment. Monongahela Nay. Co. v.
*United States, 148 IT. S. 312; Long Island Water Supply
Co. v. Brcoklyn, 166 U. S. 685; New Orleans Gas Co. v.
* LouisianaLight Co., 115 U. S.: 650; Cincinnativ. Louisvle & Ndshville R. R. Co., 223 U1. S. 390; West -River
Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507; Chicago,B. & Q. Ry. Co:
v. Drainage (ommrs., 200 U. S. 561.
The President *as authorized to requisition it.
The contract was taken. The defendant made itself
the successor of the plaintiff under the contract-the
owner of plaintiff's rights. It Could have become such
owner -in no way other than by the condemnation and
taking of the contract.
When, the defendant displaced the plaintiff under the
contract and took that place itself, and exercised all the
rights the plaintiff had under it, and agreed to pay to"
the builder, anl did pay, the balance of the installments

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Brooks-Scanlon Corp.

265 U. S.

of the contract price, it took over and appropriated the
contract and all the rights and interests the plaintiff had
init.
The defendant could not take the uncompleted ship, as
-it did do, and order the builder to complete the construction in accordance with the-contract, plains and specifica-

tions, pay the builder the balance of the contracf price,
appropriate the amount which had been paid by the
plaintiff, and receiye from the builder the ship completed
in-accordance with the contract with no change whatever
except a slight change for the military protection of the
vessel, without.taking the contract within the meaning of
the Fifth Amendment.
The defendant took and used the plaintiff's plans and
specifications, its service of inspection and classification
of the vessel, its insurance, while under construction, the
guaranty of materials and labor, the vessel when completed, the payments made by the plaintiff to the builder,
all of which were valuable rights of the plaintiff under
the contract; and there was no provision of the Act of
June 15, 1917, under which these rights could have been
taken without taking the 6ontract itself. They were
essential 'parts of the contract and could not-have been
separated .from it.
Although under the contract the legal title to the ship
during its construction was in the Shipbuilding Corporation, the plaintiff then had such substantial rights and
equities in the uncompleted ship as the courts recognize
and protect.
"
The parties to the contract evidently understood this,*
for they provided in it that the builder should keep the
vessel insured at all times during the construction in an
amount at least equal to payments made by the plaintiff,
with loss if any payable as their interests might appear.
A ship is personal pl'operty of such peculiar character
that both in England and in this country an action for

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

109

Argument for Brooks-Seanon Cor.

specific performance of contracts relating to it will lie.'
Lynn v. Chaters,2 Keen, 521; Claringbdldv. Curtis, 21
L. J. Ch. N. S. 541; "Duffv. Fisher, 15 Cal 381; Peer v.
Kean, 14 Mich. 354; Menier v. Donald, "165N. Y. S. 50;
Gfeat Lakes Transp. Co. v. Scranton Coa Co., 239 Fed.
603.
The contract and the rghts of the plaintiff thereunder
were so connected with and involved in the ship itself,
that the requisition of the -vessel under construction was
a taking and appropriation of the contract, and all plaintiff's rights uuder it, including its quitable rights and
interests.
This is true whether the United States made-use of
the contract thereafter or'made it valueless to the plaintiff. United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; Pumpefly v.
Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; Chappell v. United States,
34 Fed. 673; Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn,
166 U. S. 685; Cincinnativ. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 223 U. S. 390; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312.
It was conceded by the defendant and found by the
Court of Claims that the Goveriment did requisition the
ship under construction. It requisitioned then the plaintiff's equitable rights and interests in the ship springing
out of the contract in any event. And if, by taking the
sip, it rendered the contract and 1he obligation of .the
Shipbuilding Corporation under it valueless to the plaintiff, it thereby appropriated the contract, whether it used
the contract thereafter or not.

Omnia Commercial Co.'v. United States, 261 U. S..502,

does not rule the case at bar.
In that c6se no specific steel plate had been appropriated to the plaintiff's contract, and no part of the purch..ice had been paid. The Omna Company-had no
equitable title or interest in the steel plate, and specific
performance of its contract could not be enforced.

Ila

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argiunent for Brooks-Scanlon Corp.

-

265 U. S:

'There the Unitdd States dealt only w'ith the Steel
Company. Here it dealt with both parties to the contract.
There the United States did not step into the shoes of
tie'plaintiff under the contract and use it; .the contract
was made simply unenforceable as between the Onmia.
Company aid the Steel Company, Here the contract
was kept alive for the uso of the Government and-used. .
Thete the damages resulting to the Omnia Company
were merely consequential. Here the loss to:the plaintiff
-was the naturgl, dirept and inevitable result of What the
.'defendant .did.
There the contract. wag destroyed -under the p6]ice
power of the United-States. Here the contract was taken
under the right of eminent domain.
This suit is a part of the authorized procedure initiated
by the United States for the condemnation of the ship aid
all the rights and interests of the"plaintiff under the con-,
tract. Seaboard Air Line By. Co. v. Uizited States, 261
U. S. 299.
. The value to the plaintiff of- the contiact, .and its
rights and interest in the ship under the contract, was.
the difference between .the value, of the ship when
requisitioned and the amount which the plaintiff was
then required under the contract to pay in order to-get it.
Just compensation is the value to the owner at the time
of the taking of the property taken. .fonongahela Nay.
Ca.,v.' United States, 148 U. S.312; Seaboard Air Line
Ry. Co. v. .United States, 261 U. S.299; United States.
v. Rogers, 257 Fed. 397; Sanitary District of Chicago v.
'PittsburghRy. Co., 216 Ill. 574; United States v. New
Biver Collieries-Co., 262 U. S.341..
The plaintiff i,entitled to interest as a part of its-just
compensation upon the value of the property taken from
the date of the requisition. SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v
Unitdd States, 261 U. S. 299 United States v. Benedict,
261 U. S.294; Prince Line v. United States, 283 Fed. 535;
United States v. Rogers, 255 U. S. 163.

- BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Henry M. Ward, with whom Mr. Solicitor General
Beck, Mr. Chauncey G. Parkernand Mr. Alfred A. Wheat,
Special Assistant to th'e Attorney General, -Were on the
brieffor'the United States.
The findings of fact .clearly show that plaintiff's 0ontract with the shipbuilder was not requisitibned.
. If plaintiff's contentions should prevail, and this.Court.
should hold (a) that the contract was, in fapt and in law,
requisitioned, and (b) that the just compensation for such
requisition is the value of the contract at the date thereof,
which is the same as the then value of the ship, which concededly was requisitioned, and (c).thatplaintiff is entitled
to'interest upon such value from that date,-the United'
"Stateswill in this case be reqiredto pay the plaintiff upwards of $975,000. additional, with interest for over six
years. Furthermore, cases in which others. have filed a
brief as amid curiae involve several millions more, while
the.amount involved in other sinilai .ases now j ending in
the Court of Claims is, as justly remarked by this Court
in Omnia Commercial Co. v. United "gtates,261 U. S.513,
.
"appalling.$'
It is, therefore, important to note thie intent of the.
Fleet Corporation, as evidenced by its action'as the delegate of the President under the Act of June 15, 1917. This
action completely negatives plaintiff's contention that its
contract wis rejuisitioned.
-The orderis explicit in its specification of the'property
requisitioned. While -it refers to "contrits requisitioned"' and to" ships and contracts taken over," the contracts referred to are clearly, from the context, the commitments (necessarily by contract) for the materials, etc..
It seems clear from the facts foind that the Fleet
Corporation had no intention of requisitioning. the plaintiff's contract, and that both. as matter of fact and of
law it did not do so and that this was clearly understoodby the plaintiff at the time. It does not appear from the

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

-

265 U. S.

findings that the plaintiff then contended that its contract
was requisitioned. On the contrary, it acquiesced in the
requisition of the ship and furnisied, as requested, . statement of the amounts which it had paid to the shipbuilder,
in apparent reliance upoi the intention of the Fleet
Corporation to reimburse it for such expenditures.
While, by a subsequent contract of December 8, 1917,
the United States, through the Fleet Corporation, agreed
with the Shipbuilding Company that it should be credited
under the terms of the construction contract then made
with the amouh2ts paid prior to August 3, 1917, by the
plaintiff, these amounts of money were in-no sense requisitioned from-the shipb.uilder,.much less were they requisitioned from the plaintiff. As between the shipbuilder
and the United States, the latter agieed tb indemnify the
shipbuilder'against the claim of.the plaintiff. As betweenthe United States and the plaintiff, the former stated in"
the letter of August 28, 1917, that it was its intention to
reimburse the plaintiff for all .amountspaid by plaintiff to
the shipbuilder as soon as such amounts should be ascer-tained. This intention was carried out-by the Shipping
Board when it made an award to the plaintiff of the
moneys which it had actually paid to the shipbuilder, and
in addition also for the increase in the value of materials
assumed to have been purchased with these particular
* moneys; but it is clear that the United: States did not
requisition anything whatsoever from the plaintiff. Monona-hela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, dis-

tinguished.
This case is controlled by the decision of this Cburt in
.Omnia Commercial Co. v. United.States, 261 U. S. 502.
In'that case, at'th time of the requisition of the steel
from the steel company, the plaintiff or its assignors had
paid large sums to the steel company on account of the
purchase of the steel and had sold the same to responsible
parties, and from these sales would have realized a'profit
of nearly a million'dollars.

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP., v. U. S.
106

113

Argument for the United States.

If the action were maintainable on the theory of requisition of the plaintiff's contract, the judgment should be
reversed and the claim dismissed, because at the date of
the alleged requisition the contract was without value.
The amount of just compensation to which a plaintiff
is entitled when his property istaken for public use is the
market value of the property at the date of taking. The
Court may properly take judicial notice of the historical
fact that on August 3, 1917, or within a few days thereafter, every ship of over 2,500 deadweight tons capacity
was requisitioned by the Meet Corporatioi in behalf of
the United States under the Act of June 15, 1917, by
requisition orders substantially identical with the one
issued to the shipbuilder in this case. Under these circumstances, it can hardly be properly contended that
the contract had any market value, for it was a.contract
impossible of performance. It may be that if there had
been a free market and the ship had then been completed,
the ship would have had this value, but the Court of
Claims does not find as a fact that the contract on the date
of requisitioning of the ships was bf any value.
The Court may, hbweve;, properly take judicial notice
-of the further historical fact that, at or about the time of
the requisitioning of.these ships, all shipbuilding material
throughout the United States wis likewise -requisitioned.
by the Government, and particularly all steel and the
entire steel industry were requisitioned, and no private
shipbuilder was permitted to acquire any steel for shipbuilding for any but government ships. Assuming then
merely for the .argument that there is - a basis for the
plaintiff's contention that th6 shipbuilding contract was
requisitioned, the contract at the date of requisition was
valueless because it could not be performed by the shipbuilder. Vogeistein & Co. v. United States, 262 U. S. 337;
MorrisdaleGoal Co.v. United States, 259 U. S. 188; Pine
Hifl Co.v. United States, 259 U. S. '191.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S..

"Thetheory of the plaintiff confounds the gubject matter
of the contract wih the covenants of perforinance.
-The court below erred In allowing intdrest (partly compounded) on the theory that the ipayments mde by the
laintiff to the shipbuilder'were requisitioned.
Mr. Charles S. Haight, Mr. T. M; Cunningham, Jr.,
Mr. William B. King, Mr. John: J. Fitzgerad and Mr.
•Wharton Poor, by leave 'of Court, f1id a brief as amici
* curiae.
Mr. Ira Jewell Wfuime, fr. Carlo- Be guido, Jrr,, Mr.
John H. Stone,.Mr. F. B. Foradkrand Mr. Franci.s'hunk
Brown, by leave of Court, filed a; brief as amidc riae.*
MR. JUSTx3c Bu~iam delivered the opinion of -the,Court.

This case arises* o.iit of. the. exertion of the pbwer 'bf
requisition conferred on the President by. c. 29, 40 Stat.
182, approved June" 15, 1917, known.as the E]mergency
Shipping Act 1 There is involved the question whether
'"The President is hereby. authorized and empowere

.

"(a) To place an order with any person for iuch ships or materialf
'as the necessities' of the Government, to be determined by the President, may require during the period of the war and which are 'of the
nature, kind and quantity usually produced or capable pf being

p roducedt by such persoi.
''(b) To inddify, suspend, cancel, or requisition any" existing or
future contract 'for the"building, production, or purchase of ships or
matferia.

"(c) To require the owner or occupier of any plant'in..vhicb"ships
or materials are built or produced to place at the disposal'of the'

"United States the whole or any'part of the output of such plant, to
deliver such output or part thereof in'such quantities' and at 'such.
times as may be specified in the order.
"(d) To requisition and take over for use or operation by the
United States any plant, or any part ihereof without taking possession of the entire plant, whether the 'United States has or has not
any contract or agreement with the owner or occupier of such plant.

BROOKS'SCANLON CORP. v.*U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

106

a certain contract for the construction of a ship was

requisitioned: and if it was, upon what basis is just compensation to be ascertain.ed.

The act empowered the President (a) to order from any
person for government use ships or ship material of ]ind
and quantity usually produced by.such person; (b) -to
requisition contracts for the building of ships; (a) to
require the owiler of any shipbuilding plant to place at
the disposal of the United States the whole- or any part
of the output of the plant; (d) to requisition any shipbuilding plant or part thereof; (e) to requisition any ship
in process of c6nstruetion; and compliance with all orders
issued under the act was made obligatoiy. By executive
*order of July.11, 1917, he delegated these powers to the
United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation. On August 3, 1917, the claimant was the assignee
"(e) To purchase, requisition, or take over the title -uo, or the
possession of, for use or operation by the United States any ship
now constructed or in the process of construction or hereafter constructed, or any part thereof, or charter of.such ship.

"Compliance with all orders issued hereunder shall be obligatory
on any person to whom such order is given, and iuch order shall take
precedence -over all other orders and contracts placed with such

person...

.

the United States shall cancel, modify, suspend or
"Whenever
.

requisition any contract, . .. : it shall make just compensation

therefor, to be determined by. the President; and if the amount
thereof, so determined by the President, is unsatisfactory to the
person ehtitled to receive the same, such person shall be paid seventyfive per centumn of the amount so determined by the President and
shall be entitled to sue the United States to recover such further
sum as; added to said seventy-five per centun, will make up such
amount as will be just compensation therefor, in the manner provided
for. by section twenty-four, paragraph twenty, and section one
hundred-and forty-five of the Judicial Code.
"The President may exercise the power and authority 14ereby
vested in him, and expend 'the money herein. and hereafter appropriated through such agency or agencies as he shall determine from
tine to time: .

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the-Coift.

-

265 U. S.

and owner of a contract by which the New York Shipbuilding Corporation agreed to construct a ship; knownas hull #193. The contract was made March 28, 1916";
and after some modification, it provided for the construction of a ship of 8597 deadweight tons, to be.completed
and delivered- on or before February 1; 1918. The contract price was $831,630.
Prior to -August 3, 1917, the claimant or its- assignor
had secured the services of an architect, furnished plans
and specifications to the builder, employed a bureau to
insect the work as it progressed, and had paid to the
buider on account of the contract price ihstalments
amounting to- $419,500, which, with interesit paid, architect's fees, and the value of the plans and specifications, "
amounted to $473,710.58, exclusive of th6 cost of inspection.
Immediately after the execution of the contract, the.
builder ordered all materials required, for which sufficient
data then existed,-and, before August 3, 1917, completed
its orders for subst.ntially all that were fieeded to perform
the contract. Between 35 -and 40 per cent. of the required
matetials had been delivered to the builder ready for use,.
and, on that date, the ship was about 19 per cent. completed. The Court of Claims found that all materials so
ordered were delivered at the prices fixed in the orders
and were used in the construction of the ship; and that
nothing was purchased after" that date, -except materials
used for construction, at.a cost of $31,000, ordered for
military protection. At that time cI'aimant held, on de-posit in various solvent banks a sum of. money sufficient
to pay all the remaining instahnments of-the cointract 'price;
and the builder was ready and willing to perform the
contract.
On August 3, 1917, the. Emergency Fleet Corporation
served.on the builder its order and notice requisitioning
all of the ships, including hull #193, under constrdction in

BROOKS-SCANION CORP. v. U. S.

117

Opinion of the Court.

106

the builder's shipyard, and the materials necessary for
their completion. The order required the builder to complete the ships. It stated that compensation would be
paid for "ships, materials, and contracts requisitioned."
The builder was required'to furnish plans and specifications of the requisitioned ships, and a statement of the
payments made and amounts still due, and other informatioja "necessary to a fair and just determination of the
obligations of the Emergency Fleet Corporation in taldng
over these ships and contracts."
On August 22, the Fleet Corporation caused its district
officer to deliver to the builder a 'formal written notice
which recited that the ships had been requisitioned, and
that an order had been given the builder to complete
them, and ordered the builder to "proceed . . . in
conformity with the requirements of the contract, plans,
and specifications under Which construction proceeded
";
prior to the requisition of August 3, 1917 . .
and stated, "For the work of completion heretofore and
herein ordered the corporation will pay to you amounts
equal to payments set forth in the contract and not yet
paid:

. . ."

The builder accepted the order.

The

Fleet Corporation gave directions to the claimant not t6
make, and to the builder not to accept from claimant, any
further payments on account of the contract.
On. August 28, the Fleet Corporation notified the claimant that it had issued to the builder notice of requisition,
and inclosed a copy. The letter advised that the Fleet
Corporation's district, officer had been authorized to take
over claimant's inspection officers. It requested a verified
statement of the payments made to the builder prior to
requisition. It said: "It is the present intention of the
corporation to reimburse you promptly, so far as funds are
available, for the payments heretofore made to the shipbuilder if . : . such payments are found in order and

in conformity with the contract requirements.". It re-

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

quested a statemenit of indirect expenditures, such as the
cost of superintendence, original design and interest on
funds already paid, and said that the owner might submit
any other matters deemed pertinent; that it presumed
that it was addressing those entitled to receive compensation on account of the requisition of the vessels, and asked
that there be included in claimant's answer "all evidence
of ownership which is necessary to establish the right of
those who are entitled to receive the compensation provided by law."
On December 8, 1917, the Fleet Corporatiop made a
contract with the builder and the American International
Corporation relating to the completion and disposal of
hull #193 and other ships requisitioned. It required the
builder to complete the ship " in accordance with'the
specifications annexed to the respective contracts under
which such hulls were being constructed for the former
owners prior to August 3,1917. .
.." It also provided
that the Fleet Corporation should have credit for all sunis
theretofore received by the builder from former owners.
The Fleet Corporation agreed to indemnify the builder
from all loss or liability arising out of claims of the former
owners occasioned by the requisition order, or any subsequent acts or -orders.
January 23, 1920, the Fleet Corporation awarded claimant $442,683.82 as just compensation. It paid the builder
for construction of the ship $412,130 which, added to the
award, makes $854,813.82. This would be the total cost
.to it of the ship if its award as to -compensation were
accepted. The contract price was $831,630. The cost of
construction for military protection was $31,000. The
Court of Claims found that at the time of the requisition,
the value of such ships was $200 per deadweight ton, and
was the same on February 1, 1918. The Court of Claims
also found that claimant had paid to the builder $239,50.0
in cash, $180,000 in-notes, and $28,483.33 interest om notes,

BROKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

119

Opinion of the Court.

making.$447,933.33; and that it also paid architect's fees
amounting to"$5,500, and furnished j5lans and specifications of the.Value of $20,277.25, making in all $473,710.58,
The amount of the award was unsatisfactory to claimant;
and 75 per cent. of it, $332,012.87, was paid. The judgment was for $231,549.122
Both parties appeal.
Did the United States requ~ition claimant's-contract?
The act of Congress conferred upon the President the
power to take claimant's contract; and also, to take theship materials and the ship in process of construction. It
required' compliance witti all orderg issued -underit. No
question is raised or involved.as to the obigation of the
builder to comply with orders given it to.complete the sbip
in accordance with the contract. It was ordered.to do-so,
and it accepted the order. We axe not here concerned with
2 Claimant.paid

out:

.................
Cash to builder........................

239,500.00

Notes to build6r.....
............
"Iuterest on notes .......................

180, O00. 00
28,433.33

Architect's fees

$5,500. 00

Total ........................
$M5,433.33
Value of plans and speqfications ......... 20,277.25
-

Less 75 per. cent.oof award:............

.

$473,710.8"

332, 012.8,,

Balance
" $141,697.71
Interest was computed.and allowed as follows:
-On $473,710.58 minus $28,483.33, or $445,27. from August 3,
1917 (date of requisition) to February 24, 1920 (date of payment
of 75 per cent.4 of award), $68,350.06.
On $445277.2 minus $332,012.87, or $113,264.38, from February

24, 1920, to Apfi 23, 1923 (date of judgment), $21,50135.

$89,851.41
Total of interest .................
Added to .............................. 141, 697.71
Produces amount of *judgment... ...... $231, 49.12

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

its rights or obligations, but the orders given the builder
show that expropriation of claimant's contract and rights
was intended. By its orders the Fleet Corporation put
itself in the shoes of claimant and took from claimant
and appropriated to the use of the United States all the
rights and advantages that an assignee of the contract
would have had. The credit for, and advantages under
the contract resulting from, payment of $419,500, made by
claimant to builder were taken. The use of the plans and
specifications for the construction of the ship as well as

the benefit of inspection prior to the requisition date,
-August 3, 1917, were also taken over. The contract was
not terminated. The direct and immediate result of the
requisition orders and acts of the Fleet Corporation was to
take from claimant its contract and its rights thereunder.
Bcause of material ordered and furnished and work performed prior to requisition, the United States was enabled
to obtain the ship earlier than it could have caused a like
ship to have been planned and built, and secured the benefit of prices prevailing immediately after the making of
the contract, when the builder ordered materials for the
construction of the ship. At the time of requisition, costs
werehigher than the contract prices. At that time, and on
February 1, 1918, the date fixed for completion, the value
of such ships was greatly n excess of the contract price,
and in excess of the amount awarded to claimant plus the
amount paid by the Fleet Corporation to the builder.
Omnia Commercial Co. v. United ,tates,261 U. S. 502,
does not support tie contention that claimant's contract
was not expropriated. There, .claimant- had a contract
giving it an opportunity to purchase a large quantity of
steel plate from a steel company at a price under the market. If the contract had been carried out, large profits
would.have resulted. Before any deliveries were made,
the United States requisitioned the ste~l. company's entire
production of steel plate. No specific steel plate had been:

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
105

Opinion of the Court.

appropriated to the contract, and no part of the purchase
price had been paid. The action taken by the United
States applied to tlie steel company only and created no
relations with the claimant. The contract was not kept
alivd nor resorted to in order to determine anything involved in the transaction between the United States and
the steel company; the benefit of the low prices was not
taken; no payments made on account of the purchase
price were taken; nothing belonging to the Omnia Company was taken. Damages claimed were held too remote.
The differences between that case and this axe essential

and obvious.
The situation in this case is well stated in the dissenting
opinion of the Chief Justice of the Court of Claims: "If
the plaintiff hadt voluntarily assigned its contract with the
builder to the Government, and the latter had expressly
assumed the unfulfilled obligations and later received the
completed vessel, it would not more effectively have acquired plaintiff's contract, its rights, and obligations than
actually resulted from what was done in this case. The
Government requisitioned the incomplete vessel with the
purpose of requiring the .completion in accordance with
the existing contract; it did require the carrying out of
that contract (with slight modification); it took plaintiff's
right to have the vessel; it received the vessel and appropriated plaint's partial payments theredn to its own use

and bpnefit"
It must be held that the claimant's contract, and its
rights and interests thereunder, were expropriated.
Upon what basis is just comnpensationto be ascertained?
The expropriation enabled the Fleet Corporation to obtain the ship when completed by pairing the builder the
instalments of the contract price remaining unpaid at
the time of the requisition. The builder was not entitled
to more, because the Fleet Corporation took over the contract and succeeded to the rights of claimant.

122

-OCTOBER TERM; 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

The award by the .Fleet*Corporation was made up of
two itezm: one was stated to be the "computed value"
.of material in the yard of the builder at the time of
requisition, and the other the amount of progress payinents "in excess of the cost of the materialsrequisitiofied."
The Court of Claims held that the materials were not the
property of-the claimant, but belonged to the builder, and
should iiot have been taken into account in arriving at the
compensation due the plaintiff. But we are of opinion
that the amount of claimant's compensation did not depenid upon the legal title to the materials during constriction; that the progress payments did not constitute
the amount claimant was entitled to have, and that the
award was erroneous, because of failure to find the value
of claimant's contract rights taken.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was based upon
the assumption"that the 'money paid by claimant in furtherance of planning and building the ship was exproj)riafed. In, the opinion,, it is said, "And the plaintiff is
entitled to recover the amounts of *moneyrequisiti6ned
and appropriated by the United States." But plainly
there was no requisition of money.
The United States contends that nothing whatever was
requisitioned frora the plaintiff, and that the judgment
shbuld be reversed and the claiiii dismissed unless claimant shall be held entitled to compensation for cancelation
of its contract; and that, in such event, it should have
judgment only for an amount sufficient with what 'already
has been paid td it to make up "the amount actually
invested in the ship taken's As we hold that claimant's
contract rights were expropriated, it is not necessary to
consider what would be just compensation in.case of mere
cancelation of the contract.
8 The figure contended for
is $425,000,made up of $U19,500,paid by
clahmant to builder, and. $5,5 0; architect's fee. Nothifig is included
to cover the value of plans, interest or cost of inspection.

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP.- v. U. S.
106

123.

Opinion of the Coirt.

The contract rights of claimant taken are id be distinguished from its expenditures for the production of.the
ship. The value of propertr may be greater or less than
its cost; and this is true of contract rights and.other intangibles as well as of physical things. It.is.the proper.ty
and not the cost of it that'is protected by the Fifth
Amendment. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 454.
By 'the taking, the claimant lost and the United States
obiained the right to have the completed ship delivered to
it on or before Februay 1, 1918, upon payment of the instalments remaining to be paid under the contract. It
is settled by the decisions of this 'Court that just compensation is the value of the property taken at Tfhe time of
the taking. Vogelstein & Co. v. Uzited States, 262 U. S.
337, 340; United States v. New.River" Collieries (o., 262
U. S. 341, 344; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Ub. v. .UnitvJ
States, 261 U. S. 299, 306;'MonongahelaNaation.Co.
v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 341. And, ff .the taking
precedes the payment of compensation, the owner is entitled to such addition to the value at the time of the
taking as will produce the full equivalent of such value
paid contemporaneously. -Interest at a proper rate is. a
good measure of the amount to be added. Seaboard Air
•Line Ry. Co. v. United States, wpm; United States v.
Benedict, 261 U. S. 294, 298; Brown v. United State., 263

U. S. 78.
Claimant Insists that just compensation is the value of
the contract and its rights and interests thereunder, and is
measured by the differencebetween the value of the ship,
.as found by the court, at the time of the taking-and on
the date .specified for delivery, and the amount which
claimant was then required under the 'conhu to pay in
order to get the ship.
We think it not permissible so to calculate compensation. It is the sum which, considering all the circumstances-uncertainties of the'war and the rest-probably

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265U.S.

could have been obtained for an assignment of the contract and claimant rights thereunder; that is, the sum
that would in all probability result from fair negotiations
between an owner who is willing to sell ard a purchaser
who desires to buy.
In re Mersey Docks and Agmiralty Commissioners,
[1920] 3 K. B. 223, is a case quite similar to this. There,
the Admiralty requisitioned a barge nearing completion,
altered her construction, and paid, or undertook to pay,
the builder the original contract price. It was impossible
•for the Board, for whom the barge was being constructed,
to replace her by anothe at a cost less than three times
the contract price of the original barge. By agreement,
the ascertainment of compensation to be paid by the Admiralty to the Board was referred to an arbitrator. The
Board claimed the difference between the contract price
and cost of replacing the barge, regard being had to the
fact that replacement would be impossible"for three years;
and also claimed compensation for loss of services during
the period required for replacement. The Admiralty contended that the measure of compensation should be the
difference between the contract price and value of the
vessel when taken. A special case was stated by the

arbitrator. The Earl of Reading, Lord Chief Justice, gave
judgment, and-held that the Board was entitled to recover
the difference between the contract price and the increased
cost of replacing the barge; that the Board was not entitled to any compensation for loss of services, the damage.
being too remote. He said (p. 233): "On a -broad view
of the facts and without undue regard to minute details,
the Court has to determine upon what principle the compensation to be awarded to the Board ought to be measured. In my judgment it is sufficient for the purpose of
this case to say that the Board are entitled to have the
property which, but for the action of the Admiralty, would
have been in their possession in April, 1917, replaced by

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.

-

125

Opinion of the Court.

106

the Admiralty. As it cannot be replaced except by the
expenditure of money, they are entitled to the amount
of money which will represent the cost to them of the
replacement. That must be measured with regard to the
special circumstances arising from the war, nd more
especially to the increase in the value of labour and
materials which has continued up to the present tine.
.

.

.

I can see no very material difference between the

respective principles contended for by counsel on behalf
of the Board and counsel'on behalf of the Admiralty. In
truth I think that both these principles lead to the same
conclusion."
This Court has held in many cases that-replacement
cost is to be considered in. the ascertainment of value,
but that it is not necessarily the sole measure of or guide
to value. We are of opinion that value, so far as material, rather than replacement cost- should be taken into
account,, for the ascertainment of just bompensation. If
the ship had been complete and ready for delivery at the
time of requisition, claimant's just compensation would
be the value of the ship, less the unpaid balance of the
contract price. But the ship was not ready, and the
builder was not bound to deliver before February 1, 1918.
Claimant had a right to its delivery at that time, and the
builder was ready to perform the contract. The Court
of Claims, being of opinion that claimant's contract was
not taken, did not find its value at the time of taking,
and failed to find facts from which such value appears.
Determination of just compensation is to be based on the
fact that claimant's contract and its rights and interest
thereunder were expropriated, and that it is entitled to
have their value at the time of the taking. The value of
-

'Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commissio

262 U. S. 276, 287, and cases cited; Bluefield Co. v. Public Service
Commission, 262 U. 8. 679, 689; Georgia Ry. & Power Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 262 U. S. 625, 629.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of MelbzNoxms and Sroao:n, JJ: 265 U. S.

such ships af the time of requisition, and the then probable value at the time fixed for delivery, the contract
price, the payments made and to be made, the time to
elapse before completion ana delivery, the possibility that
by reason of the Government's action in control of materials, etc., the contractor might not be able to complete
the ship at the date fixed for'perfotmance, the loss of use
of money to be sustained, the amount of other expenditures to be made between the time of requisition and
delivery, together with other pertinent facts, are to be
taken into account and given proper weight to determine
the amount claimant lost by the taking (Minnesota Rate
Cases, supra, 451; United States v. Chandler-DunbarCJo.,
229 U. S. 53, 76; Boston Chamberof Commerce v. Boston,
217 U. S. 189, 195; 'Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, supra, 343), that is, the sum which will
put it in as good a position pecuniarily as it would have
been in if its property had not been taken. United States
v. New River Collieries Co., supra,343; SeaboardAir Line
Ry. Co. v. United States, supra,305.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings in
confority with this opinion.
Mi. Ju~mcz SuTERLAsideration of this ca.e.

took no part in the con-

The separate opinion of MuJ. JUSTICn MalicNoLs.
This case is of special importance because of the immense sums .involved in similar pending claims. Ten
ships-tome larger than No. 193-were requisitioned at
Camden alone. Speaking with constraint, the findings of
the Court of Claims leave much to be desired for ready
understanding; but enough appears, I think, to support
its final judgment.
Through change of name, the Brooks-Scanlon Corporation became successor to Carpenter-O'Brien Cnt. pany and

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

127

Separate Opinion of McR moLDs and SAwoPn, JJ.

party to the written contract of March 28, 1916,r under,
which the New York Shipbuilding Corporation undertook
to ci)nstruct at its Camden yard a steaibship of about
eighty-five hundred tons (Freighter No. 193), according to
designated plans, on or before February 1,1918. $595,000,
payable in installments, was the price first stated; prior to
May 25, 1917, because of changes, .this was increised to
$811,130. The East Coast Transpoitation Company and
the New York Shipbuilding Company were the .original
contracting parties. The Brooks-Scanlon Corporation acquired the former's interests--the New. York Shipbuilding Corporation those of the latter.
The Act of Congress approved June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40

Stat ,182, provides: "The President is hereby authorized
and empowered, within the limits of the amounts herein
authorized"c(s) To place an order with any person for such s ips
or material as the fiecessities of the Government, to be determined by the President, may require during the period
of the war and which are of the nature, kind and quantity
usually produced or capable of being produced by'such
person. (b) To modify, suspend, cancel, or requisition
any existing or future contract for the building, produ.tion, or purchase of ships or material. (e) To require the
owner or occupier of any plant in which ships or materials
are built or produced to place at the disposal of the United
States the whole or any part of the output of such plant,
to deliver such output or part thereof in such quantities
and at such times as may be specified in the order. (d)
To requisition and take over for use or operation by the
United States any plant, or any part thereof without taking possession of the entire plant, vffether the United
States has or has not any contract or agreement with the
owner or occupier of such plant. (e). To purchase, requisition, or take over the title to, or the possession of, for use
or operation by the United States any ship now- con-

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of McREroLs and SA~oRD, JJ. 265 U.S.

tructed or in the process of construction or hereafter constructed, or any part thereof, or charter of such ship.
"Compliance with all orders issued hereunder shall be
obligatory on any person to whom such order is given, and
such order shall take precedence over all other orders and
..
contracts placed with such person .
"Whenever the United States shall cancel, modify, suspend or requisition any contract, make use of, assume,
occupy, requisition, acquire or take over any plant or part
thereof, or any ship, charter, or material; in accordance
with the provisions hereof, it shall make just compensation therefor, to be determined by the President; and if
the amount thereof, so determined by the President, is un*satisfactory to the person entitled to receive the same,
such person shall be paid seventy-five per centum of the
amount so"determined by the President and shall be entitled to sue the United States to recover such further
sum as, added to said seventy-five per centum, will make
up such amount as will be just compensation therefor,
in the manner provided for by section twenty-four, paragraph twenty,. and section one hundred and forty-five of
..
the Judicial Code .
"The cost of purchasing, requisitioning, or otherwise
acquirinq plants, material, charters, or ships now constructed or in the course of construction and the expediting of construction of ships thus under construction shall
not exceed the sum of $250,000,000, exclusive of the cost
of ships turned over to the Army and Navy. ....
July 11, 1917, thd President delegated his powers
"granted by the statute, to the United States Shipping
Board Emergency Fleet Corporation-the "Fleet Corporation." Purporting to act as thus authorized, and
referring to ten vessels then under construction at the
Camden Yard,-the Fleet Corporation notified the New
York Shipbuilding Corporation, August 3, 1917: "All
power-driven cargo'-carrying, and passenger ships above

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

Separate Opinion of McREYNrors and S

129.

FoRD, JJ.

2,500 tons d. w. capacity, under construction in your yard,
and certain materials, machinery, equipment, outfit, and
commitments for materials, machinery, equipment, and

outfit necessary for their completion are hereby requisitioned by the United States. On behalf of the United
States, by virtue of said act and said order, you are
hereby required to complete the construction of said
requisitioned ships under construction and will prosecute
such work with all practicable dispatch. The compensation to be paid will be determined hereafter and will
include ships, material, and contracts requisitioned. You
will furnish immediately general plans and detail specifications of the ships requisitioned, and copies of contracts
and all supplemental agreements in relation thereto, and
full particulars as to owner, date of completion, payments
made to date, amounts still due, and any other information necessary to a fair and just determination of the
obligations of the Emergency Fleet Corporation in taking
over these ships and contracts. You will report immediately whether any additional contracts are under consideration and their character and extent, and will not
enter into any additional contracts or commitments with
respect to merchant tonnage without express authority
from this corporation."
August 18, 1917, the Fleet Corporation addressed a
letter to the East Coast Transportation Company (predecessor of Brooks-Scanlon Corporation) giving notice of
the requisition-order of August 3rd, and on August 28,
1917, served on the Carpenter-O'Brien Company a. substantially identical letter, which stated"On August 3, 1917, the United States Emergency
Fleet Corporation issued to the New York Shipbuilding
Corporation the notice or requisition set forth in enclosure a .
"In response to this communication the New York
Shipbuilding Corporation, the shipbuilders, informed us

OCTOBER TERM; 1923.
Separate Opinion of McREnoLDs and

SAFORD,

JJ. 265 U.S.

that the East Coast Transportation Company, as owners,
or representatives of owners, had entered into a contract
with them for the following vessel:
"Hull No. 193; type, cargo; d. w. .ton, 8,100; date of
contract, 3-28-16 (assigned 5-24-17).
'Under date of August 23rd you advised that this
contract had been assigned to you.
" The corporation's district officer having charge of
vessels in the district in which the shipbuilders are located
has been instructed. to take charge, for the corporation, of
the completion of vessels now under construction, and
has been authorized temporarily to take pver your local
inspecting officers at their present compensation. Will
you please inform the district officer, Ar. G. R. McDermott, at room 302, 1319 F St. N. W., Washington,
"D.C.,'tie names of your representatives and their compensation, sending a duplieate to this office. Your cooperation .with the corporation is invited.
"cThe "co!oration will consider payments to the bon.tractor accruing since the date of requisition, upon the
receipt of proper vouchers and adequate information to
be forvarded through its district officers.
"You are requeited, as soon as possible, to report to.
the corporatioi" a statement in detail of the payments
already'made by you on each ship named above prior to
the Uate of the .requisitioning, August 3, 1917. This.
statement shoild be accompanied by the original vouchers
and receipts and should be verified under oath by the
proper eorporate"officer Qf your company.
"It islthe present intention of the corporation to reimburse you promptly, so far as funds are available, for the
payments heretofore made .to the shipbuilder if after
investigation of data Iubmitted by you such payments'
are found .in order and in conformity with the contract
requirements.
"At your further and early convenience you are requested to submit to the corporation a statement of such

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

Separate Opinion of McRLtNoms and

SANroD,

JJ.

indirect expenditures as you have made on account of
each vessel; for instance, the cost of superintendence,
original design, interest on funds already paid, and the
like. The matters mentioned will require careful audit,
and in addition you may submit any other matters you
deem pertinent.
"It will be perceived that the corporation presumes it
is addressing this letter to the owners, or responsible representatives of the owners, or persons entitled to riceive
compensation on account of the requisition of the vessels
listed above. The corporation requests that there be
included in your response to this letter all evidence of
ownership which is necessary to establish the right of
those who are entitled to receive the compensation provided by law.
"The consummation of the orders herein and heretofore
transmitted will be made the subject of later appropriate
corporate action."
August 22, 1917, the Fleet Corporation, through General Manager Capps, forwarded the following letter to
Agent McDermott; and, as directed, the latter.promptly
delivered a copy thereof to the New York Shipbuilding
Corporation with request that it govern itself accordingly.
"Dear Sir:
" Referring to the vessels under construction in the yard
of New York Shipbuilding Corporation, Camden, N. J.,
requisitioned under the corporation's order of August 3rd,
precedent to the final examination of the contract for the
vessels in question' you are requested to inform the shipbuilder as follows:
" The ships now under construction at your plant and
referred to above having.been requisitioned by the duly
authorized order of this corporation and title thereto taken
over by the United States, and an order having been
placed with you by due authority to complete the construction of said ships with all practicable dispatch, you

132"

3OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

. Separate Opinion of MoREnoLus and SANFORD, JJ. 265 U. S.
are further ordered by the President of the United States,
represented by this corporation, to proceed in the work of
completion heretofore ordered, in conformity with the requirements of the contract, plans, and specifications under
which construction proceeded prior to the requisition of
August 3, 1917, in so far as the said contract describes
the ship, the materials, machinery, equipment, outfit,
workmanship, insurance, classification and survey thereof,
including the meeting of the requirements of the said contract and all tests as to efficiency and capacity of the ship
on completion, and in so far as the contract contains provisions for the benefit and protection of the person with
whom the contract was made, but not otherwise.
"All work will proceed under the inspection of such per-.
sons as have bden or may hereafter, from time to time, be
designated by this corporation for that purpose.
"1For the work of completion heretofore and herein
ordered the corporation will pay to you amounts equal
to payments set forth in the contract and not yet paid:
Provided, That on acceptance in writing of this order you
agree that on final acceptance of the vessel to give a bill
of sale to the United States in satisfactory form, conveying
all your right, title, and interest in the vessel, together
with your certificate. that the vess6l is free from liens,
claims or equities, with the exception of those of the owner,
and then only to those set forth in the contract. Compensation to the shipbuilder for expedition and for extra
work will, when deemed appropriate, be made the subject
of a subsequent order.
"This order applies only to vessels actually under construction and in accepting it the corporation expects you
to inform it of the actual stage of construction of each vessel or the part to be assembled therein.on the date of requisitioning, August 3, 1917. The corporation reserves the
right to decide whether or not a vessel was actually under
construction on August 3, 1917, on consideration of the
ascertained facts.

BROOKS-SOANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

Separate Opinion of MCRaYoLDs

133

and S.ANFORD, JJ.

"In replying to this communication, please arrange to
specify separately the vessels to which this order refers,
and refer to the corresponding contract in sufficient terms
for identification of it.
"Please furnish a-copy of this to New York Shipbuilding Corp., and ask for an early reply.
Very truly yours,
W. L. CAP.Ps, General iMlanager."
Replying, September 20, 1917, the Shipbuilding Corporation advised the Emergency Fleei Corporation"Referring to the order dated August 22, 1917, made by
United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, and delivered to this company, we beg to say:
"We understand that by the Act of Congress of June
15, 191L7, entitled 'An Act making appropriations for the
Military and Naval Establishments on account of war expenses for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1917, .nd for
other purposes,' and the Executive order dated July 11,
1917,made by the President with respect to said act, and
transmitted to us by the Emergency Fleet Corporation
under date of August 3, 1917, we are under obligation to
comply with the order of the Emergency Fleet Corporation dated August 3, 1917, requisitioning ships at this company's plant.
"This' corporation, therefore, accepts United States
Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation's order
dated August 22, 1917, for the completion of the vessels
under contract in this yard on August 3rd, 1917, known as
hull No. -, and agrees that, upon the completion and acceptance of said vessels and upon complete payment [by]
United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, together with such additional compensation as may
be agreed upon, this company will execute and deliver to
the United States of America a bill of sale conveying all
this company's right, title, and interest in the vessels without prejudice t6 any claim of the person or corporation

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of

McEYNoLDs

and SANroRD, I.T. 265 U. S.

who originally contracted for the construction of said vessels, and those claiming rights under such original contractor, together with our certificate that the vessels are free
from liens, claims, or equities except such liens, claims,
or equities as may be asserted by, or exist in favor of, the
person or corporation who originally contracted for the
construction of the vessels, and those claiming rights under
such original contractor."
September 13, 1917, the Fleet Corporation telegraphed
the Shipbuilding Corporation: "Do not accept further
payment from former owners on account of requisitioned
ships. This is mandatory."
December 8, 1917, the Shipbuilding Corporation and.
the Fleet Corporation agreed"On and prior to August 3, 1917, the Sbipbuiflding
Corporation was constructing under private contract with
the corporations named below (hereinafter called 'former
owners') ships bearing the -hull numbers of the type
ind for the contract prices set opposite their respective
names. . . . [There were 10 of them.]
"Due to war conditions, such contract prices have
proved and will prove to be less than the actual cost of
constructing such ships. On August 3, 1917, all of such
ships, together with the materials assembled therefor, were
requisitioned by the Fleet Corporation, acting in accordance with the provisions of the Urgent Deficiency Act of
June 15, 1917, and the Executive order of July 11, 1917.
The Shipbuilding Gorporation by such requisition was
directed to complete such ships on behalf of the United
States.
"The parties hereto desire to fix the just compensation
to be paid to the Shipbuilding Corporation in accordance
with the provisions of such Urgent Deficiency Act, and to
that end the Fleet Corporation is willing to increase such
contract prices. ...
"The Fleet Corporation hereby agrees to pay to the
Shipbuilding Corporation as just compensation for the

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

Separate Opinion of McR-m~orms and SANon,

•135
T.T.

completion of said ten ships, hulls Nos. . . . the
entire cost of construction of said ships, figured from the
commencement by the Shipbuilding Corporation of the
construction of said ten ships up to the times of completion thereof respectively, and in addition thereto with respect to each ship ten dollars ($10) per dead-weight ton
for prof t. There shall be credited, however, in favor of
the Fleet Corporation all sums heretofore received by the
Shipbuilding Corporation on account of the construction
of such ten. ships respectively, eithdr from the forIher
owners or from the Fleet Corporation."
- The amended petition, filed June 12, 1920-prior to our
decision of Omnia Commerca Co. v. United States, 261
U. S. 502, 513-and upon which the cause was tried,
alleges"That said builder, the New York Shipbuilding Company, had, up to the 3d day of August, 1917, duly contracted for all of the materials, equipment and supplies
sufficient to complete said ship as specified in said contract, and that a large portion of such material, equipment and supplies had been duly prelared and delivered
to the yard of said builder on said day, and that the remainder thereof, sufficient to complete said ship, had been
duly contracted for by said builder and was, thereafter, delivered-ider the prbvisions of said contracts.and entered
into the construction and completion of said ship; and that
said builder had performed -and caused to be performed
a large amount of labor under said .contract upon, in and
about the construction of said ship, and that said builder
had duly paid for said contracts for material, equipment
and supplies, the delivery thereof, and for the laboi furnished and performed in and about such construction by
moneys so paid to said builder by said owner as herein
stated; and that said builder, on the 3d day of August,
1917, on its part, had fully complied with tle terms of
said contract, and was then and was always thereafter °

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of McRsiNows and SANFORD, JJ. 265 U. S.

ready, able and willing to complete the same in all
particulars.
"That on June 15, 1917, by Chapter 29, 40th Statutes
at Large, 182, Congress authorized the President, among
other things to modify, suspend and cancel or requisition
any existing or future contract for the building, production or purchase of ships or materials, etc., and further
to purchase, requisition or take over the title to or the
possession of, for use or operation by the United States,
any ship then constructed or in the process of construc'tion, or thereafter constructed, or any part thereof, or the
charter of said ship. In further accordance with said act
the President, by order dated July 11, 1917, deputed to
the United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation full power to act thereunder including the power
to provide just compensation therefor, and the said corporation, by its order of August 3, 1917, on behalf of the
United States, took over all the property of the claimant
in or under said contract, including the said ship under
construction and all materials, machinery, equipment,
outfit and commitments therefor, and all labor performed
thereon necessary for its completion, meaning thereby
everything in existence and as expressed in said order 'required to complete the construction of said requisitioned
ships under construction,' as will more fully appear by
reference to the order of W. L.Capps, General Manager,
which reads'as follows. [Here follows copy of requisitionnotice to the Shipbuilding Corporation dated August 3rd
and enclosed in letter of August 28th addressed to Carpenter-O'Brien Company.]

.

.

" That said requisition order was fully complied with
and all of the property of said owner, the claimant herein,
hereinbefore described, was taken by the said United
States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation for
and on behalf of the United States, and was thereafter reotained by and used for the purposes of the United States

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

Separate Opinion of McREYNOLDs and

SANFORD,

"137
JJ.

as provided by law. And that the said owner was thereby
and thereafter deprived of all of its use and value. That
said ship so taken was then under construction by said
builder and thereafter was fully completed without change
of plans or specifications from those set forth in the said
construction contract as amended and supplemented, and
that the said materials, equipment, outfit and supplies,
and the said commitments and contracts for materials,
equipment, outfit and supplies as described in said requisition order and paid for by the said dwner and taken as
aforesaid, were actually used in the construction and completion of said ship and were substantially sufficient to so
construct, complete, equip and supply said ship as described in said plans and specifications as amended and
supplemented. -...
" That a fair and reasonable value of the said property
so requisitioned and taken, and of which said owner was
deprived on said 3d day of August, 1917, as aforesaid, was,
at the rate of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) per ton for
8,597 dead weight tons, the sum of two million, one hundred forty-nine thousand, two hundred fifty dollars ($2,149,250) less the sum of four hundred twelve thousand,
one hundred thirty dollars ($412,130) as aforesaid, (required to be paid by said owner to said builder under the
provisions of said construction contract as amended and
supplemented, in order to fully complete, supply and
equip said ship in accordance with the terms and conditions of said constructidn contracts hereinbefore set forth),
so that the total amount due to said claimant on the said
3d day of August, 1917, on account of the transactions
hereinbefore set forth was the sum of one million, seven
hundred thirty-seven thousand, one hundred twenty dollars (81,737,120)."
The ship was finally completed and delivered September 20, 1918.
Departing from the theory of the complaint, petitioner
now maintains that its right and interest in the shipbuild-

138

OCTOBER. TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of McTtrNoins and SANroD, JJ. 265 U.S.

ing contract .were expropriated by the United States for
public use; that the contract itself -was requisitioned,.not
frustrated; and that compensation must be made for the
full value of the .contract as of the date when so taken.
-The Court of Claims denied this. demand, but held petitioner should receive the sum of partial payments which'
it made to the shipbuilder under the contract plior to the
-requisition order of August 3, 1917, with interest.
I can find no sufficient basis for holding that the Fleet
Corporation expropriqted the claimant's contract or intended s6 to .do, or consciously assumed liability for the
value thereof. Claimafit never had either title to or possession of the vessel; It was only a responsible party to
an executory contract for construction; always subject to
frustration by condemnation of the vessel.
The order of August 3rd, addressed only to the Shipbuilding Corporation, plainly recites that "all powerdriven cargo-carrying, and passenger ships above 2,500
tons d. w. capacity, under construction in your yard, and
certain materials, machinery, equipment, outfit, and commitments for materials, machinery, equipment, and outfit
necessary for their completion are hereby requisitioned by
the United States." On-that date the Shipbuilding Corporation had possession of the ship as well as title thereto.
The United States then assumed control and the immediate result was to frustrate the building contract. Frustration by the exercise of the power of eminent.domain
was an implied condition. The United States became
liable to the owner-the Shipbuilding Corporation-for
the value of property actually taken. What that value
was we need not inquire; the builder accepted the requisition-order and the agreement of December 8th, and does
not now seek to recover more;
Certainly, no notice concerning requisition went to the
Brooks-Scanlon Corporation prior to the letters of August
18th and 28th, whereas the building contract had been
frustrated by taking the ship on August 3td.

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. V. S.

100

Separate Opinihn of Mc.RnyormDs and SAxForm, TJ.

The communication of August 22nd to the Shipbuilding
Corporatiori referred- to the vessels in the yard as having
been "requisitioned under the 'orporation's order .of
August 3rd, precedent to the final examination of the contract for the vessels in question," and "title thereto taken
over by the United States ";.directed their completion in
confbrmity with contract, etc., which existed on that date;
and stated that "for the work of completion heretofore
and herein ordered the corporation will pay to you
amountS equal to payments set forth in the contract and
not yet paid," with a certain important proviso.
On September 20th the Shipbuilding Corporation recog-

nized that the ship had been requisitioned by the order
of August 3rd and promised to complete upon payment
of compensation named in origInal contract and "such
additional compensation as may be agreed upon"
The telegram of September 13th referred to "requisitioned ships." The contract of December 8th recites that
"on August 3, 1917, all of such ships, together with the
materials assembled therefor, were requisitioned by the
Fleet Corporation."
The notices addressed to East Coast Transportation
Company and Carpenter-O'Brien Company, August 18th
and 28th, indicate that on August 3rd the Fleet Corporation was'unaware of the parties to or the terms of the
building contract. These notices declared a purpose to
"consider payments to the contractor accruing since the
date of requisition," and an intention "to reimburse you
promptly, so far as funds are available, for the payments
heretofore made to the shipbuilder;" and further, "it will
be perceived that the corporation presumes it is addressing
this letter to the owners, or responsible representatives of
the owners, or persons entitled to receive compensation on
account of the requisition of the vessels listed above."
The reported facts seem inconsistent with any definite
purpose by the Fleet Corporation to requisition the con-

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of MCRSYxoLDs and SANFonD, JJ. 265 U.S.

tract, as distinguished from the vessel itself-certainly,
there was no apparent reason for any such action. It
expressed a purpose to reimburse for payments made
under the building contract and to consider such sums
when seeking to determine compensation for the shipbuilder. It also demanded that the builder should complete the vessel as provided by the contract. The builder
acquiesced, and its rights are not now in controversy. The
right of the claimant to reimbursement for the actual payments which it made under the contract prior to frustration is not challenged; it was properly considered in adjusting the sums to be paid to all parties. I can see no
sufficient reason for awarding the value of a contract
which perhaps might have been realized if the United
States had not exercised their clear right to tak over the
partially completed vessel. No such claim was advanced
by the petition; there was ample power in the Fleet Corporation to frustrate the building contract; and there
seems no necessity for interpreting its action as accomplishing more. The Fleet Corporation evidently intended
to requisition the vessel; and when claimant filed its petition in 1920 it does iiot seem to have thought the contract
had been requisitioned. A few vague and general words
used in the hurry of the times and without full information ought not to place an enormous, wholly unnecessary
and unanticipated burden pn the public treasury.
The amended petition upon which the cause was tried
proceeds upon the theory that claimant was owner of the
vessel; that prior to August 3, 1917, the builder had duly
contracted for all necessary material and supplies to complete the ship, performed much labor thereon, and had
paid for all these things out of moneys received from the
owner. It distinctly alleges: That the Fleet Corporation,
"by its order of August 3, 1917, on behalf of the United
States, took over all the property of the claimant in or
under said contract, including the said 6hip under con-

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
Separate Opinion of McRnYtoLDs and S~auo, JJ.
"strtiction and all materials, machinery, equipment, outfit
and commitments therefor, and all labor performed
thereon necessary for its completion, meaning thereby
everything in existence and as expressed in said order
'required to complete the construction of said requisi106

ti6ned ships under construction.'

.

. That said

requisition order was fully complied with and all of the
property of said owner, the claimant herein, hereinbefore
described, was taken by the said United States Shipping
Board Emergency Fleet Corporation for and on behalf
of the United States, and was thereafter retained by and
used for the purposes of the United States as provided

by law."
The court below-rightly, I think-declared: "The intent and purpose of the Shipping Board was, therefore, to
requisition ships under construction, which was done in
unmistakable language. It is admitted that the ships
under construction, the materials, and so forth in the
yard of the New York Shipbuilding Corporation were the
property of that corporation, and the title to that property
was in. the Shipbuilding Corporation .alone. Among the
ships under construction so requisitionea was hull 193,
which the Shipbuilding Corporation was building for the
Carpenter-O'Brien Corporation, but it is not contended
by the plaintiff that it had any title to or interest in said
ship or the materials for its completion. All the interest
it had was the right to the delivery of the ship when it
should be completed. It follows that the United States
did not take or requisition the ship or materials from the
Carpenter-O'Brien Corporation nor did the United States
take over or requisition the contract which the CarpenterO'Brien Corporation had with the Shipbuilding Corporation.
"It was made plain to the Carpenter-O'Brien Corporation that the United States did not intend to requisition
the contract, for on August 28, 1917, after notifying the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of 'McRPnxkoLs and SANFoRD, JJ. 265 U. S.
Carpenter-O'Brien Corporation that it had taken over and
requisitioned this ship from the Shipbuilding Corporation,
the Shipping Board by letter of that date stated what its
intention was. A copy of said letter is set forth in full
in Finding VI. As further evidence showing the intention of the Shipping Board, reference is made to the letter
of the board to G. R. McDermott, its officer, and which
was communicated to the Shipbuilding Corporation. A
copy of this letter is set forth in Finding VIII. - And as
final evidence that the Upited States did not requisition
the contract, and never intended to, the United States
entered into a contract with the Shipbuilding Corporation
for the completion of all ships under construction in its
yard, included in which ships was hull 193, thereby making its own contract for the completion of this ship.
This contract is set out in Finding XVI. It is true that
the plaintiff by reason of the requisitioning of the ship
by the United States was deprived of the right to have
delivered to it the ship when completed.
"But there has been in this case no direct taking of
the contract. The injury inflicted upon the plaintiff is
a consequential injury resulting from the exercise of a
lawful power in the requisitioning of the ship under construction. The requisitioning .hasworked indirectly harm
and loss to the plaintiff, but not such harm and loss as
can be held to obligate the Government to pay for it.
The a9btion of the Government may have destroyed the
worth of the contract, -but the law affords no remedy.
The Government.by requisitioning the subject matter of
the contract does not thereby take the contract. The.
subject matter in this case was the ship under construction, and that was what the Government requisitioned,
not the contract which was the agreement and obligation
to perform. The performance of the contract in this case
was frusLrated ad not appropriated. 'Frustration and
appropihation are essentially different things.' Omnia
Commercial Company v; United States," supra.

BROOKS-SCANLON CORP. v. U. S.
106

143

Separate Opinioi of Mc~ziNoms and SA-kFRD, 33.

The principles involved have been so recently discussed
in Omnia,Commercid Co.v. United States, that it seems
unnecessary to restate them. We there said: "In the
present case the effect of the requisition was to bring the
contract to an end, not to keep it alive for the use of the
Government. •The Government took over during the war
railroads, steel mills, ship yards, telephone and telegraph
lines, the capacity outpit of factories and other producing activities. If appellant's contention is sound the
Government thereby took and became liable to pay for.
an appalling number of" existing contracts for future
service or delivery, the performance of which its-action"
made impossible. This is inadmissible. Frustration and
appropriation are essentially different things."
'The evidence fails to show any definite'purpose by the
Fleet Corporation to requisition the contract. Up to the"
time of instituting suit the claimant'evidently 'as unaware of any -uch requisition. And it seems to me clear
enough that the court below rightly concluded that the
demand now advanced is vithout merit.
Mit. JusTICE SANwoR cohcurs in this opinion.

