472

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U.S.

- We can not think that Congress intended any such result in the enactment of the Anti-Trust Act or that the
decisions of this Court warrant such construction.
Decree reversed.

ML J uSaC McKE A, MuR. JUSTicE Vxw D.vA-NTR,
and AIR. JusTCE BumnR, dissent.
UNITED STATES v. TITLE INSURANCE & TRUST
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TH1E
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 358. Argued February 28, 1924.-Deided June 9, 1924.
1. Where there are two grounds upon either of -which an appellate
court may rest-its decision, and it adopts both, the ruling on
neither is obiter dictum, but each is the judgment of the court,
and of equal validity. P. 486.
2. A long-standing decision of a doubtful question, which hai become a rule of property affecting many land titles, should not be
disturbed. Id.
3. The United States sied to establish a perpetual right of Mission
Indians to use, occupy and enjoy part of a confirmed Mexican land
grant in California, claiming that the right originated before the
grant was made, and had been merted by open, notorious and
adverse occupancy ever since. The grant had long before been
confirmed, and patented by The United States to defendants' predecessorsi under the Act of March 3, 1851, c. 41, 9 Stat. 631, which
provided for adjudication'of private land claims by a commission,
with review by the District Court and this Court, and declared
that claims not presented to the commission within two years
should be deemed abandoned and that patents issued on confirmed
claims should be conclusive between the United States and the
claimants but should not " affect the interests of third persons."
- The claim of the -Indians was never presented td the commission
by them or by the United States on their behalf. Hed, on the
authority of Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481, that the claim of
the Indians was abandoned. Id.
288 Fed. 821, affirmed....

UNITED STATES v. TITLE INS. CO.
472

473

Argument for the United States.

A pF
EA from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed 9,decree of the District Court dismissing a
bill to quiet title brought by the United States on behalf
of certain Indians.
MK. George A. H. Fraser, Special Assistant .to the
Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck
was on the brief, foi the United States.
At the time when California passed under the sovereignty of the United States, the Tejon Indians possessed,
under Spanish and Mexican law,'an undisputed right and
title of possession and use of the land actually occupied
by them, being the Indian tract described in the complaint. Recopilacion de las Indias, Bk. 4, Tit. 12, Laws
5, Z, 9, 14, 18; Bk. 6, Tit. 3, Law 9; Hall, Mexican Law,
§§ 36, 38, 40, 45, 49, 165; 2 White's New Recopilacion,

pp. 50, 52, 242.
All these Spanish laws survived as a portion of the
fundamental law of the Mexican Republic. Hall, Mexican
Law, §§ 85, 159; Rockwell, Spanish and Mexican Law,
pp. 17, 18; American Ins. (o. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511;
Mitchel v. United States, 9 Pet. 711; Chouteawv. Molony,
16 How. 203; Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheat. 543.
This Indian right was aboriginal, antedated the sovereignty of Spain and Mexico, and was not derivedifrom
either, but was recognized and protected by the laws of
both. Holden v.. Joy, 17 Wall. 211; Worcesterv. Georgia,
6 Pet. 515.
The Indian, title was further acknowledged and fortified in the case at bar, before the transfer of sovereignty,,
by the .special provision for the protection of these Indians, found in the Mexican grant: "They [the grantees]
must not interfere with the cultivation and other-advantages which the Indians who are found established in said
place have always enjoyed." -Chouteau v. Molonry, 16
How. 203; United States v. Arredond6,6 Pet. 691; United
States v. Armijo, 5 Wall. 444.

474

4 OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

265 U. S.

By the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the United .States
contracted to preserve and. protect all existing rights of
property recognized by Mexico, including the foregoing
title and right possessed by the Tejon Indians at the
date of that treaty. United States v. A'iguisola, 1 Wall.
352; Knight v. United States Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161;
United States v. Aforeno, 1 Wall. 400; Beard v.Federy,
3 Wall. 478; Astiaaran v. Santa Rita Mining Co., 148
U. S. 80; Ely's Admr. v. United States, 171 U. S. 220;
Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481.
This Indian title presented no novelty under American
law, because at all times in the history of our jurisprudence the law of the United States was, and still is, practically identical with that of Spain and. Mexico in this
regard, namely, that Indians have an original right and
title of occupancy, ijossession and use prior to the right
or title of Spain, Mexicb or the United States, which can
be extinguished cnly by the sovereign, and which, until
so extinguished, is as sacred as the sovereign title or the
fee title.
Thd Indian title is both legal and equitable in its nature
and has been variously likened to an easement, life estate,
trust or use with which the fee is charged. Johnson v.
McIntosh, 8 Wheat. 543; Marsh v. Brooks, 8 How. 223;
United States v. Cook, 19.Wall. 591; Buttzv. Northern
Pacific.V. R., 119 U. S. 55; Kennedy v. Becker, 241
U. S. 556.
Further, wten the fTe passes from the Governmeit into
private hands under a general conveyance, it is, for the
time being, only a naked fee. The private grantee has the
title, but the Indians have the beneficial use until the
sovereign, which alone has the power to interfere, extinguishes such use. Seymour v. Freer,8 Wall. 202; Jones
v. Byrne, 149 Fed. 457; Corbin'v.Holmes, 154 Fed. 593.
The Indian title is not extinguished by an unconditional, grant in fee by the sovereign. United States v.

UNITED STATES t. TITLE INS. CO.
.472

475

Argument for the United States.

Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691; Johnson v. Mc!ntosh, 8 Wheat.
543; United States v. Fernandez, 10 Pet. .303; Buttz v.
NorthernPacific B. B., 119 U. S. 55.
The Indian title-is extinguished only by words or acts
distinctly indicating such purpose, of which there have
been none in this case-on the part of Mexico or the United
States; and in the history of the United States, has been
abrogated always under s6me terms of bompensation to
the Indians. There has been iio compensation here.
The Act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, not only does not
require tribal Indians to appear before the Commission
created by that act, there to asseri their right to occupancy under penalty of losing it by nonappearance, but.
distinctly shows a contrary inteht. The aimative action

it requires is not by the Indians but by th Commission,
which is instructed to inirestigate that right or title and
given power to report thereon but not to adjudicate.
The Act pf 1851 c6ntemplated primarily nothing more

than the separation of the lands which were owned by
individuals from the public' domain. United S.tates v.
Morlo, 1 Wall. 706; United States v. Fossat, 20 How.
413; Meader v. Norton, 11 Wall. 442; Thompson v. LosAngeles FarmingCo., 180 U. 8. 72; Botiler v'Dominguez,"
130 U. S. 238.
The act did not intend to require tribal Indians to present their occupancy title to the Commission under penalty of Its extinguishment.
This Court has specifically held it inproper for the
holders of titles subordinate fo'the fee to present their
claims to the Commission. United States v. Fossat, 20
How. 413, Townsend v. Greeley, 5"Wall. 326.
In view of the ignorant, dependent and helpless state
of the Indians and the assumption of the Government
toward them of the high obligation of guardian to ward,
statutes and treaties are invariably construed liberally'in
their favor. Marks v. United States, 161 U. S. 297.

476

OCTOBER- TERM, 1923.
ArgumeiLt for the United States.

265 U. S.

General acts of Congress d6 not'apply to then! at all
unless so worded as clearly 'to manifest. an. intention to
include them. Elk v. Wilkins, 112 U. S. 94; Leavenworth,
etc. R. R. Co. v. UnitedStates, 92 U. S. 733;-UnitedStates
V. Nice, 241 U. S. 591.
Their rights were'within the am5le guaranty given by'
the United States in the Treaty of 1848.
AppelleW' theory is that by the Act of .1851"the Government under form of law'ineffect falsified its pledge by
making the preseryation of the Indian title conditional
upon
wild savages, or at best semi-civilized children, be.coming
aware of-the proceedings of Congress; and
thereupon within alimited time convening from distances Qf
e ndreds of milds, ,_through wild and unsettled country,
extensively .occupied by suspicious or warring tribes, at
San Francisco, and there appearing unaided before a white
man's court, and making fornial proof in a foreign language according to a prescribed- procedure. This is; in-'
deeaI, "to keep the word of promise to the ear and break
it to the hope." It makes Congress cloak the purposeful
confiscation of a title it had undertaken to preserve by,
means of a dishonorable subterfuge.
Statutes must not be so constraed as to accuse the
United States of bad faith. Leavenworth, et.R. R. Co.
v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; United States v. Kirby,
7 Wall. 482.
Throughout American history the Indian title has ne ei
been abrogated inferentially or without compensation.
The presumption is against a departure. from a longestablished and uniform course of policy. Morton v.
Nebraska, 21 Wall. 660; United States -. "Munday,222
U.S. 175.
Contemporaneous legislation, both of the United States
and the State of California, and .subsequent legislation
of the'United States, support our constrction of the Act
of 1851 and show that both Nation and State regarded the

UNITED STATES. v. TITLE INS. CO.
472

477

Argument for the United.States.

Indian possession as an admitted right 'which not only
was not to be inferentially extinguished, but was to be
afirmatively protected.
Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481, is distinguishable in
fact and in la;V. (1) It was officially .determined by the
Mexican authorities that the Indians there involved had.
voluntarily abandoned their occupancy befcre Mexico
granted the land; (2) as a natural result the .grant which
the Commission confirmed contained no recognition of
Indian possession,, or protective provision in their favor;
(3) the Indian claim was presented as though .founded
on a protective clause in an earlier grant, which grant,
however, the Commission had rejected (probably because
unconfirmed by the Departmental Assembly,) and its
true basis, viz: the tribal possessory title, was apparently
not emphasized; (4) the Indian title was presented as
permanent-in the sense thait no one,not even the United
State, could extinguish it.- Cf. Minnesota v: Hitchcock,
185 "U.S. 373.
What, then, is _the effect of the legal discussion forming
the first half of fhe opinion?- One of two things is true:
(1) That discussion was perhaps invited by erroneous
contentions that the protective clause in the first grant
founded or created i title, and that that title was fixed and
permanent beyond the power of the Government to cancel
it. If so, the remarks have no bearing whatever on the
case at bar. (2) In so far as the general possessory title'
was 'under consideration, the discuision was 'Iunnecessary to the decision and in that sense extrajudicial," Hans
v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, because that title had been extinguished by the sole fact of voluntary abandonment.
Now, however, the United States comes with a set of
facts vitally different and for the first time requiring a
decision. on the points of law academically discussed in
the earlier case. Under such circtumstances this Court
has repeatedly announced that the extrajudicial discussion

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the'United States.

265 U. S.

is not controlling. Cdrrofl .v. Carroll's Lessee, 16 How.
275; Pollock v. Farmers'Loa'i & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429;
Brooks v. Marbury, 11 Wheat. 78; Hans v. Louiisana,
134 U. S. 1; McCormick. Co. v.-Aultman, 169 U. S. 606;
United States v. Wong.Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649; Downes
v. Bidwel, 182 U. S. 244; Harrimanv. NorthernSecurities
Co., 197 U. S. 244; Joplin Co. v. United States, 236 U. S.
531; Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright, 249 U. S. 275.
There are two statements of -law in the Barker Case
*hich are hard to discuss, because it is impossible to be
certain whether, as we believe, they apply only to the
peculiar sort of title there apparently claimed, or whether,
e, appellants contend, they announce a general rule applicable even to an Indian tribal title, such as is presented
here, protected but not created by a Mexican grant.
One is that "public domain" is .the same as " public
lands;" that lands encumabered with the Indian easement
or use cannot be treated or cohisidered as "public lands"
in the ordinary sense; and that, therefore, when § 13
of the Act of 1851 made lands to which claims had not
been presented part. of the public domain,.it intended to
extinguish the Indian title wherever unpresented.
While these expressions are sometimes loosely, used as
equivalent, it is perfectly obvious that they are not in
fact synonymous. A national park, or a forest reserve,
or an Indian reservation is certainly part of the public
domain, and as certainly not a part of the "public lands
of the United State*s" in the sense of lands subject to
sale or disposal under general laws. What is really meant
by "public domain" is seen in Missionary Society v.
Dalles,107 U. S. 336. See Buttz v. NorthernPacificB. R.,
119 U. S. 55; St. Paul, etc. Ry. Co. v. Phelps, 187 U. S.
528.
I But the same result would be reached even if Congress had said " public lands of the United States," since
land may be and often has been treated as public land of

UNITED STATES v. TITLE INS. CO.
472

479

Argument for the United States.

the United States, although admittedly subject to the
Indian title of occupancy and possession.* Kindred v.
.UnionPacific R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 582. Lands subject
to the ordinary Indian title, here claimed, have over and
over again been treated as public lands both of Mexico
and the United States and have been granted subject to
that title.
Section 15 of the Act of 1851 reading: "That the final
decrees . .-. or any patent to be issued under this act
shall be conclusive between the United States and the said
claimants only, and shall not affect the interests of tlird
persons," in plain and simple language preserves the
Indian title under decree and patent alike until the Govemnment itself affirmatively acts to extinguish it. The
Commission itself so held in this very case.
And if this decree, thus affirmed, expressly states that
it does not affect Indian rights, how can the patent which
fbllowed it, and which the act puts on the same footing as
the decree, affect them?
We confidently submit that Barkery.Harvey, 181 U. S.
481, is demnstrably wrong if it means that the Indians
here concerned are not protected by the provision that
decrees and patents shall not affect third persons.
The term "third persons '" necessarily has a general
signification outside of the restricted application required
by the narrow and unusual facts of Beard v. Federy. It
necessarily includes exactly the sort of persons of whom
the tribal Indians are examples. This view is confirmed
by repeated decisions of this Court. Townsend v.
Greeley, 5. Wall. 326; Meader v. Norton, 11 Wall. 442;
Carpentierv. Montgomery, 13 Wall. 480; Adam v. Norris, 103 U. S. 591; Boquillas Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S.339;
Los Angeles Milling Co. v. Los Angeles, 217 U. S. 217;
Wilson Cypress Co. v. Del Pozo, 236 U. S. 635.
A rule of property can be no wider than the facts ruled
on. The only rule founded on the essential facts of the

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellees.

265 U. S.

Barker Case is that Indians who voluntarily abandon
their possession lose their possessory title.
A rule of property is not established by ',.single decision. Bucher v. CheshireR. R. Co., 125 U. S. 555; Chicago
v. Robbins, 2 Black, 418; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall.
497; Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349.
The passages in the Barker-Caseconstrued by appellees
as favorable to them are contradicted in Ainnesota v.
Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, and very recently in Cramer v.
United States, 261 U. S. 219.
The doctrine of stare decisis is not inflexible. Hertz v.
Woodman, 218 U. S. 205; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 157 U.-S. 429.
The disastrous effect, on titles anticipated as the result
of a reversal is imaginary.
Mr. Walter'K. Tuller, ith whom Mr.Henry W. O'Melveny, Mr. E. E. Millikin and Mr. Sayre Macnei7 were on
the brief, for appellees.
The law governing this case is settled by numerous
decisions of this Court and has become a rule of property.
Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481; Minnesota Co. v. Na,tional Co., 3 Wall. 332; United States v. Heirs of Waterman, 14 Pet. 478; McDougal v. McKay, 237 U. S. 372;
Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478; Botiller v. Dominguez,
130 U. S. 238; Knight v. United States Land Assn., 142
U. S. 161; Thompson v. Los Angeles Farming Co., 180
U. S. 72.
The claim of appellant that the rights of the Indians,
whatever they may have been, during the time Spain or
Mexico held sovereignty of California, were not derived
from the Spanish or Mexican law, is unsound. Title to
or rights in or over real property exist only by virtue of
law, and that law is the law of the country which is sovereign over the territory.. Johnson v. McIntosh, 8 Wheat.
543.

UNITED STATES v. TITLE INS. CO.
472

481

Opinion of the Court.

The most that can possibly be.claim d is.that the
Indians had a temporary right of occupancy revocable at
the will of the sovereign; in other words, a mere license
revocable at the pleasure of the Government. This isthe most even under the laws of Spain. If anything, the
Indians had even less rights under the laws of Mexico.
Hayt v. United States, 38 Ct. Cims. 455, 461-462.
MR.JusTIcE VAN Dp.VAwIT.
delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a suit by the United States as guardian of certain

Mission Indians to quiet in them a. "perpetual right" to

.occupy, use, and enjoy a part of a coiifirmed Meican land
grant in s6uthern California, for which the defendants
hold a pttent from the United States. The District Court
dismissed the bill as not showing a cause of action, and
its decree was affimed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
288 Fed. 821.
The grant was made by Mexico in 1843. After California was ceded to the United States, Congress, in 1851,.
passed an act providing for the ascertainment and adjudication of private land claims in the ceded territory,

c. 41, 9 Stat. 631. The act created a commission to consider and pass on such claims, provided for a review in
the District Court of that district, and for a further
review in this Court; required that the claims be presented to the commission within two years, in default of
which they were to be regarded as abandoned; provided
for the issue of patents on such as were confirmed, and
declared the patents should be "conclusive between the,
United States and the said claimants," but should not
"affect the interests of third persons." This grant was
presented to the commission, and, afte- a hearing'in which
the United States participated, was confirmed. On an
appeal by the United States the District Court affirmed
that decision, and a further appeal to this Court was aban-

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S..

doned and dismissed. Thereafter, in. 1863, the patent
under which the defendants claim was issued.
The bill alleges that under the laws of Mexico the
Indians in whose behalf the bill is brought became entitled to the "continuous and undisturbed" occupancy
and use of a part of the lands-in the grant before it was
made; that the Indians we'e in open, notorious, and
adverse occupancy of such lands at the date of the grant,
and that they ever since have remained in such occupancy,
save as they have been more or less disturbed by thedefendants and their predecessors at different times since
the patent issued. The bill was brought in 1920. It
does not question the validity of the grant or of the
patebnt, but proceeds on the theory that the grant was
made, and the title under the patent is held, subject to a
"perpetual right" in the Indians and their descendants
to occupy and use the lands in question. The Indians
never presented their claim to the commission, nor did
the United States do so for them.
The courts below held that the claim of the Indians,
if they had any., was abandoned and lost by the failure
to present it to the commission, and that the patent issued
on the confirmiation of the grant passed the full title,
unencumbered by any right in the Indians. In so holding, those courts gave effect to what they understood to
be the decision of this Court in Barker v. Harvey, 181
U. S. 481.
The questions to be cdnsidered here are whether the
decision in that case covers this case, and, if it does,
whether it should be followed or overruled. That was a
suit by the owner of a Mexican grant in southern California against Mlission Iidians to quiet his title under a
confirmation and patent against their claim to a permanent right to occupy and use a part of the lands. In the
state court where the suit was brought, the plaintiff hada deree, which the Supreme Court of the State affirmed.

.UNITEDSTATES v. TI.TLE INS. CO.
472'

483

Opinion of the Court.

In the right of the Indians the 1nited .tates then brought
the ease here and took charge of and. presented it for
them. This Court sustained the decision of the state
courts.
In the trial court the Indians had produced evidence
tending'to show that they and their ancestors had been
occupying and using the lands openly and continuously

from a time anterior to the Mexican grant, and that while
they remained under the dominion of Mexico that gov-ernment protectgd them in their right and recognized its
permanency. But at the conclusion of the trial that
evidence had been stricken *out over their objection, because it appeared that their claim had not been presented
to the cominssion under the Act of 1851. •On the evidence remaining the decree necessarily had been against
them. Thus the question presented was whether there
was error in striking out the evidence of their prior
occupancy and use and of the permanency of their right
as recognized by Mexico.
This Court, after observing that under the treaty with
Mexico and the rules of international law the United
States was bound to respect the rights of private property
in the ceded territory, said there eould be no doubt of
the power of the Unifed States, consistently with such
obligation, to provide reasonable means for determining
the validity of all titles within !he ceded teritory, to
require all claims to lands therein to" be presented for
examination, and to declare that all not presented should
be regarded as abandoned. The Court further said the
purpose of the Act of 1851 was to give repote to titles
as well as to fulfill treaty obligatiofis, and that it not only
permitted but required all claims to be presented to the
commission, and barred all from.future assertion which
were not presentud within the two years. Earlier decisions showing the effect theretofore given to patents
issued under the act were cited and approved; and, corn-

484

..OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

ing to the provision that the patent shall not "affect the
interests of third persons," the Court held, as it had done
in a prior case: "The term 'third persons', as there used,
does not embrace'all persons other than the United States
and the claimants, but only those who hold superior titles,
such as will enable them to resist sudcessfully any action
of the government in disposing of the property." The
Court then rocee.ded:'
"If these Indians had any claims founded on the action
of the Mexican government they abandoned them by not
-presenting them t6 the commission for consideration, and
they could not, therefore, in the language just quoted,
'resist successfully any action of the government in'dis,
posing of the property'. If it be said that the Indians
do not claim the fee, but only the right of occupation,
and, therefore, they do not come within the provision of
section 8 as persons 'claiming lands in California by
virtue of any right or title derived from the Spanish or
Mexican government,' it may be replied that a claim .of
a right to permanent occupancy of land is one of farreaching effect, and it could not-well be said that lands
which were burdened with a right of permanent occupancy were a,part of the public domain and subject to
the full disposal of the United States. There is an essential difference between the power, of the United States
over lands to which it has had full title, and of which it
has given to an Indian tribe a temporary occupancy, and
that over lands which were subjected by the action of
some prior government to a right of permanent occupancy, for in the latter case the right, which is one -of
,private property, antecedes and is superior to the title of
-this government, and limits necessarily- its powers of
'disposal. Surely a claimant w6uld hae little reason for
presenting to the land commission his claim to land, and
securing a confirmation of that claim, if the only result
-was to transfer the'naked fee to him, burdened by an
Indian right of permanent occupancy.

UNITED STATES v. TITLE INS. CO.
472

485

Opinion of the Court.

"Again, it is said that the Indians were, prior to the
cession, the wards of the Mexican government, and by the
cessioni became the wards of this government; that, therefore, the UTited States are bound to protect their interests, and that all administration, if not all legislation,
must be held to be interpreted by, if not subordinate to,
this duty of protecting the interests'of the wards. It is
undoubtedly true that this government has always recognized the fact that the Indians were its wards, and entitled to be protected as such, and this court has unifoimly construed all legislation in the light of this recognized obligation. but 1he obligation is one which rests
upon the political department of the government, -and
this court has never assumed, in the absence of Congressional action, to determine what would have been appropriate legislation, ot to decide the claims of the Indians
as though such legislation had been had. Our attention
has been called to no legislation by Congress having special referende to these particular Indians. By the Act
creating the land commission the commissioners were
required (sec. 16) 'to -ascertain and, report to the Secretary of the7Interior the tenure by which the mission lands
are held, and those held by civilized Indians, and those
who are engaged in agriculture or labor of any'kind, and
also those which are occupied and cultivated by Pueblos
or Igancheros Indians.' It is to be 'assumed that;'the
commissioners performed. that duty, and.that Congress.
in the discharge of its obligation to the Indians, did all
that it deemed necessary, and as no action has been shown.
in reference to these particular Indiansi or their claims
to these lands, it ii fairly to be deduced that Congress
considered that they had no claims which called for
special action." .
Enough has been' said to make it apparent that that
case and this are so much alike that what was said and

1486

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1923..
Opiion of the Court.

265 U.S.

ruled in that should be equally applicable in this. But it
isurged that what we have described as ruled there was
obiter dictum and should be disregarded, because the
Court there gave a second ground for its decision which
was broad enough to sustain it independently of the first
ground. The pieinise of the contention is right but the
conplusion is wrong; for where there are two grounds,
upon either of which an appellate court may rest its
*decision, and it adopts both, "the ruling on neither is
obiter, but each is the judgment of. the court and of equal
validity -with the other." Union, Pacific R. B. Co. v.
Mason City & Fort Dodge R. R. Co., 199 U. S..160, 166;
Railrodd Companies v. Schutte, 103 U. S. 118, 143.
The question- whether that decision shall be followed
here or overruled admits of but one answer. The decision
ws given twenty-three years ago and affected many
tracts of land in California, particularly in the southern
part of the State. In the meantime there has been a
continuous growth and development in that section, land
values haye enhanced, and there have been many transfe'rs. Naturally there has been reliance on the decision.
The defendants in this case purchased fifteen years after
it was made. It has become a rule of property, and to
disturb it now would be fraught with many injurious
results. Besides, the government and the scattered Mission Indians have adjusted their situation to it in several
instances: As long ago as Minnesota Co. v. National Co.,
3 Wall. 332, this Court said, p. 334: "Where questions
arise which affect titles to land it is of great importance
to the public that when they are once decided they should
no longer be considered open. Such decisions become
rules of property, and many titles may be injuriously
affected by their change. Legislatures may alter or
change their laws, withot injury, as they affect the
future only; but where courts vacillate and c errule their
own decisions on the construction of statutes affecting

WALTON v. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
472

487

Argument for Appellant.

the title to real property, their decisions are retrospective
and may affect titles purchased on the faith of their
stability. Doubtful questions on subjects of this nature,
when once decided, should be 6onsideied no longer doubtful or subject to change."
That rule often has been applied in this and other
courts and we think effect should be given to it in the
present case.
Decree affirmed.
WALTON v. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF
THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA .ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No.689. Submitted April 11, 1924.--Decided June 9, 1924.

A court of the United States, sitting as a court of equity, is wfthout
jurisdiction of a suit to enjoin the prosecution of a proceeding to
remove a state official from office. P. 490.

Affirmed.
APPeAL from a decree of the District. Court dismissing
the billin a suit by the Governor of Oklahoma to enjoin
the prosecution of impeachment proceedings in the state
legislature as based on improper motives and as infringing
his rights to due process and equal protection of the law,
under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Mr. Finis B. Riddle and Mr. Henry B. Martin for
appellant.
A federal court has no .jurisdiction in equity generally,
where a contest over, or the title to, a state office, or a
question of iemoval of an officer in accordance with state
law, is involved; but will lend its aid against a wrongful
interference or removal under a void judgment, which

