ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. DARDEN.
Opinion of the Court
ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. DARDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 226. Argued April 22, 1924.--Decided May 26, 1924.
1. A judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a case involving

the liability of a carrier for injury to an interstate shipment under
its tariff and shipping agreement and an apt of Congress, head reviewable by writ of error and not by certiorari. P. 266.
2. The first "Cummins Amendment," (Mach 4, 1915, c. 176, 38

Stat. 1196,) made the carrier liable for the full actual loss of
property shipped, when caused by the carrier, regardless of any
agreement or representation of the shipper. .d.
So held where, without actual fraud, the value declared by the shipping contract on which the charge was based was much less than
the actual value, and carried a lower tariff rate, and*where the
contract was on a form filed as part of the tariff and bore a notice
that the true value must be declared.
286 Fed. 61, affirmed; certiolari denied.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming a recovery of damages in the District Court for

loss of livestock in transit.
Mr. Wlliam L. Granbery for plaintiff in error.
Mr. K. T. McConnico, with whom Mr. . S. Laurent
and. Mr. Jnb. A. Pitts were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

MR.

JUsTICE

BR

DxDEIs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The first Cummins Amendment (March 4, 1915, c. 176,
38 Stat. 1196, 1197) provides that a common carrier receiving property for transportation in interstate commerce
"shall issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor "; shall be
liable "for the full actual loss, damage, or injury to such

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

property [shipped] caused by it "; that "no contract, receipt, rule, regulation, or other limitation of any character whatsoever, shall exempt such common carrier
. . . from the liability hereby imposed"; and hat
such liability for the full actual loss shall exist "notwithstanding any limitation of liability or limitation of the
amount of recovery or representation or agreement as to
value in any such receipt or bill of lading, or in any contract, rule, regulation, or in any tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission; and any such limitation,
without respect to the manner or form in which it is
sought to be made is hereby declared to be unlawful and
void." The effect of this act is to nullify provisions limiting liability contained in public tariffs and in bills of lading. Chicago, AMiwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co.v. McCaullDinsmore Co., 253 U. S. 97.
While this act of Congress was in force, Darden shipped
six horses by Adams Express from Latonia, Kentucky, to
Windsor, Ontario. Five of the horses were killed intransit. He brought this action to recover their value against
that company in the federal court for the Middle District
of Tennessee. The jury found that the accident was due
to the carrier's negligence; and rendered a verdict for Darden in the sum of $32,500. Judgment entered thereon was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 286 Fed. 61.
The case was br6ught here by writ of error under ยง 241
of the Judicial Code. A petition for a writ of certiorari
was also filed; and consideration of it was postponed. The
case is properly here on writ of error. Compare Louisnlle & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Rice, 247 U. S. 201. The
petition for a writ of certiorari is, therefore, denied.
The company conten'ds. that-a verdict for it should have
been directed, or that the recovery should have been
limited to $500, by reason of the following facts: The
tariff contained a,provision requiring that the actual value
of a shipment be declared; and also provided for an addi-

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. DARDEN.
265

Opinion of the Court.

tional charge by way. of a graduated percentage, if the
value exceeded a stated amount. The tariff rate for shipping a carload of horses valued at $100 each was $165.
This rate was named to Darden by the Express Company's agent; that amount was paid; and the company's
so-called non-negotiable live-stock contract, prepared by
it, recited that the value of the horses was declared by the
shipper to be $100 each. The horses were in fact race
horses; and were of much greater value than the sum
named. This fact was known to thb company's agent.
The copy of the shipping contract stating $100 to be the
declared value of each horse was not seen by Darden until
after the accident had occurred. It was not contended
-that he'was guilty of actual fraud in shipping at the rate
named.
The main argument for the company appears to be this:
The statute requires the shipper to disclose the " real
value" of the shipment, and requires the carrier to collect the " real value" rate. Darden paid the rate which,
by the tariff, was made applicable only to horses valued at
not more than $100 each. The shipping contract recited
that the declared value of each horse was $100. To that
contract was attached a notice that the shiipper "must
state the actual value of the shipment, which value must
be inserted in the contract." The form of this contract
and notice were filed as part of the tariff. Darden was
bound to know the provisions of the tariff. To recover
he must sue on the shipping contract. By claiming actual
value largely in excess of $100, with a view to establishing liability therefor, he attempted not only to vary a
written contract, but to secure, by means of a discriminatory rate, an illegal rebate. Thereby, he necessarily disclosed to the courts his unlawful conduct; and the court
should, refuse its aid, whether the action be deemed one
upon an illegal contract or, more generally, a proceeding
to enforce rights arising out of an illegal transaction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

The short answer to this, and to the company's other
arguments, is furnished by the comprehensive terms of
the statute. From them appears the intention of Congress to make the carrier liable for the full actual loss,
regardless of any agreement or representation of the
shipper. Its purpose is so accurately stated that discussion could not make it clearer. It might confuse. The
enactment of the second Cummins Amendment, in the
following year (Act of August 6, 1916, c. 301, 39 Stat. 441)
indicates merely that the provisions of the 1915 Act
proved to be more comprehensive than was found to be
desirable.1 Compare American Railway Express (o. v.
Lindenburg,260 U. S. 584.
Affirved.
Certioraridenied.
Mi. Jusmcru SANvomu-took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
1

The 1916 Act excepts from the prohibition of limitation of liability "property, except ordinary live stock, received for transportation concerning which the carrier shall have been or shall hereafter
be expressly authorized or required by order of the Interstate Commerce Commission to establish and maintain rates dependent upon
the value declared in writing by the shipper or agreed upon in writing as the released value of the property, etc." See In the Matter
of Bxpress Rates, etc., 43 1. C. C. 510; Live Stock Classification,47
I1. C. C. 335; J. B. Williams Co. v. Hartford & New York Transportation Co., 48 I. C. C. 269, 273; Gold Hunter Mining Co. v.
DirectorGeneral, 63 I. C. C. 234, 241; Domestic Bill of Lading and
Live Stock Contract, 64 1. C. C. 357, 361; U. S. Industrial Alcohol
Co. v. DirectorGeneral, 68 I. C. C. 389, 391; North Packing & Provision Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 69 I. C. C.
235, 237; 80 I. C. C. 737, 739.

