DAVIS v. DONOVAN.
Argument for Petitioner.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS, AS
'AGENT UNDER SECTION 206 OF THE TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 1920, v. DONOVAN, AS
A
OWNER OF THE DECK SCOW "M RY ETHEL,"
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 757. Argued April 10, 1924-Decided May 26, 1924.
1. Under § 10 of the Federal Control Act and General Order 50-A,
issued January 11, 1919, by the Director General of Railroads,
the Director General was not made suable generally, as the operator
. of all railroads, but only with special reference to the particular
transportation system or "carrier" out of whose operations the
liability in question arose. Cf. Missouri Pacific R. R. (o. v. Ault,
256 U. S. 554. P. 263.
2. Therefore, an action against him for alleged negligence in the

operations of one carrier cannot be maintained by proof of negligence in the operations of another carrier, both under his control.
Id.
294 Fed. 525, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court for the present
respondent, in a libel brought by him against the Director
General of Railroads to recover damages for injury to a
vessel resulting from a collision.
Mr. Evan, Shelby, with whom Mr. John E. Walker was
on the brief, for petitioner.
The federal courts, outside of the Second Circuit, and
the appellate courts of nine States, have rendered decisions which are opposed to the decision of the court belew.
Manbar Coal Co. v. Davis, 297 Fed. 24; Whalen Paper
Mills v. Davis, (Dist. of Col.) 288 Fed. 438; Granquist
v. Duluth, etc. Ry. Co., 155 Minn. 217; Payne v. Lind,
106 Oh. St. 14; Bostwick v. Director General, 220 Mich.

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondents.

265 U. S.

21; Cardwell v. Payne, 226 Ill. App. 227; Payne v. Lyon,
154 Ga. 501; DirectorGeneralv. Monroe, 28 Ga. App. 6;
Harmon v. Hines, 139 S. Car. 179; Fan"v. St. Louis S. W.
Ry. Co., 154 Ark. 585; St. Louis, etc. Ry. Co. v. McLean,
(Tex.) 253 S. W. 248; Payne v. Coleman, (Tex.) 232 S. W.
537;. Davis v. Dantzler Lumber Co., 126 M~iss. 812.
Contra,Davis v. Alexander, (Okla.) 220 Pao. 358.
The officials of the Railroad Administration throughout
the period of federal control and the succeeding period of
liquidation regarded each transportation system under
separate.
federal control as distinct and
I
Mr. George V. A. McCloskey for respondents.
The happening of the accident raises a presumption
of the petitioner's fault and, as the action is in personam, it is for him to show a cause not involving his
fault. The Louisiana,3"Wall. 164. The petitioner may
not relieve himself from that burden by proving that he
struck the blow with his left hand, not with his right;
and in the case at bar, his defense hardly amounts to
so much.
The petitioner speaks of the operation of the New York
Central tug as though the fault were in that; but it was
not strictly speaking in operating their own tug, it was
in handling the New Haven carfloat, that the New York
Cintral men were negligent.
It was through the instrumentality ofK the New Haven
carfloat that the libelant's scow was damaged, whether the
Director General was controlling her movements through
servants drawn from that"railroad system or from another,
and since the suit is in personam the Director General is
equally liable no matter what set of servants cast the
property of the New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R.
Co. into collision with the libelant's scow.
'More than one service of process on the Director General is not contemplated.

'N

DAVIS v. DONOVAN.
257

'259

Argument for Raspondents.

Under petitioner's construction of General Orders 50
and 50-A, duplicate service would have besn the rule
where more than one railway system was involved and the

same construction would upon like reasoning be extended
to § 206, Transportation Act, 1920. Neither the General
Orders nor the Transportation Act contain a syllable relating to or even suggestive of duplicate service of process.
All alike contemplate a single party defendant, though,
before federal control, the joinder of two or more.railroad
companies was frequent.
The plain purpose of General Orders Nos. 50 and 50-A,
in providing for service upon operating officials operating
for the Directok General the railroad in respect of which
the cause of action arose, was 6bviously both .to serve the
convenience of litigants, who thus could find some one
near at hand to serve with process, and to facilitate the
preparation of the Director General's defense, by giving
notice of the suit to those who were in the best position
to have notice of the facts. The provision was certainly
not intended to sift jurisdictional points so fine that suit
should fail where process was served through one but not
through another railroad system in some manner involved.
Unified control intends a single agency in control. Federal Control Act, March 21, 1918, c. 25, § 10, 40 Stat. 451.
General Order No. 50 provided that suit should be
brought against the Director General and not otherwise.
The act contemplates suit against bne party only. There
is no provision for service upon him in more than one
capacity or for adjustment or "adjudgment of responsibility as between the government administration of one
railway system and the government administration of another. :Final judgments are to be rendered against an
agent designated by the President, as such generally, and
not in a capacity special to each railroad system, and ara

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondents.

265 U. S..

to be paid out of a revolving fund created by § 210. This
revolving fund is appropriated for the payment of judgments generally, without distinction in respect of the specific railroad under federal control.
Federal control of the railroads was an exercise of the
war power (Northern Pacific By. Co. v. North Dakota,
250 U. S. 135,) and the United States thereby became, in
the place and stead of the owning companies, the operator
of their respective systems of transportation. Dahn v.
Davis, 258 U. S. 421. The United States Railroad Administration has been authoritatively characterized as
Cone control, one administration, one power, for the accomplishment of the one purpose, the complete possession
by governmental authority to replace for the period
provided, the private ownership theretofore existing."
NorthernPacific By. Co.v. North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135;
Missouri PacificR. R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S.554. In the
Ault Case, this Court held that statutory penalties for defaults in operation might not be imposed upon the owning company, since its control of the railroad was sugpended, nor upon the Director General, since his possession was that- of the United States. Reference to the
" transportation systems as "entities" was made, not in
connection -with any suggestion of multiple legal personality in the single representative of the Government's
unified administration of these systems, but in explaining
the statutory language "carriers while under federal control" (Federal C0:trol Act, § .10,) as intending, not the
corporations, but their transportation systems. Any suit
against the Director General is a suit against the United
States. Dahn v. Davis, 258 U. S.421. Since the suit is
essentially one against the United States, and since the
United States .took no divided, but a complete, possession
and control of the railways for all purposes (Northern
Pacific Ry. "Co.v. North Dakota,250 U. S. 135,), it should
follow that -its agent for that purpose, standing suit as

"DAVIS v. DONOVAN.
257

Opinion of the Court.

such, had a capacity as unified as the control he exercised.
There is no substance to the theory that between the private litigant and the remedy against the Government
there has been interposed a shifting phantasm, a multiple
personality under one name, a series of legal entities representative of the Government, not of the owning companies, yet as numerous as the transportation systems.
Globe & Rutgers Fire Ins. Co. v. Hines, 273 Fed. 774;
Red Hook Dredging Corporationv. DirectorGeneral, (unreported opinion, U. S. D. C., Ward, J:, January 20, 1922.)
Remedial provisions, broadly expressed, are not to be
narrowly construed.
MBi. JusTicm McREzonis delivered the opinion of the

Court.
June 13, 1919, iespondent Donovan, owner of the
"Mary Ethel," filed a libel in the United States District
Court, Southern District of New York, against the "Director General of Railroads of the United States (New York,
New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company)"-for
whom James C. Davis, Agent, etc., has been substitutedand another, wherein he asked to recover for damage sustained by his vessel when in collision with the New York,
New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company's car float
No. 46. He alleged that the collision resulted solely from
negligence of the float and those in charge of her; that
the President took possession of all systems of transportation, December 28, 1917, through the Director General;
and "that at all the times herein mentioned the car float
No. 46 was managed, operated and owned by the said
New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company
under the control or operation of the said Director General of Railroads."
The "Director General of Railroads of the United
States (New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad)"
answered and denied liability.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

It appeared from the evidence that while moored at
Pier 2, Erie Basin, March 28, 1919, the "Mary Ethel"
suffered .damage by contact with car float No. 46 of the
New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad, negligently cast loose by a New York Central Railroad tug.
Both railroads and the tug were then being operated by
the Director General.
The Dist-ict Court found and held: "The last intervening cause of the accident which occurred to the ' Mary
Ethel' was the fact that the New York Central came in
and after removing the New York Central barge allowed
the No. 46 to go adrift, but that fact will not relieve the
Director General, operating the New York, New Haven
and Hartford Railroad, from liability, inasmuch as he
is the ame entity that is operating the New York
Central."
A decree for the libellant was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. It said"The contention of appellant is, that 'even though it
be admitted that the New York Ceniral tug was under
the control and operation of the Director General of
Railroads operating the New York Central Railroad, the
Director General of Railroads operating the New Haven
Railroad, *being a separate add distinct person, is in no
way responsible.'
"Appellant seeks to avoid the decision of this court in
Globe & Rutgers Fire Ins. Co. v. Hines, Agent, 273 Fed.
774, by the effect, as he confends, of Missouri Pacific
Railroad Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554. .

. In our view,

the opinion of the Supreme Court sustains the Globe &
Rutgers Fire Ins. Co. Case, supra.
"The sole point is that the outside litigant, such as
this libellant, need look only to the I 5irector General as
the party to respond for damage caused by negligence on
the part of any of the railroads which he was operating
pursuant to the Federal Control StatuteS."

DAVIS v. DONOVAN.
257

-

263

Opinion of the Court.

We cannot accept the conclusion reached by the court.
below.
During the year 1919 the United States were in possession and complete control, by the Director General, of
the important railroad systems throughout the country.
Northerm Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135.
As the representative of the United States, he *as subject to be sued for the purposes, to the extent and under
the conditions prescribed by statute and orders issued
theretinder-and not otherwise. DuPont De Nemours &
Co.v. Davis, 264 U. S. .456.
Section 10 of the Federal Control Act, approved March
21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451, 456, provides that carriers
under federal control shall be subject to liability as common carriers under state and federal-laws, and that in
a6tions against theih no defense shall be made upon the
ground that the carrier is an instrumentality .of the
Federal Government.
General Order 50-A of the Director General, issued
January 11, 1919, directs that actions at law, suits in
equity or proceedings in admiralty growing out of operation of any.system of transportation which might have
been brought against the carrier but for federal control,
shall be brought against the Director General, and not
otherwise;" that service, of process may be made upon
officials operating a railroad for the Director General as
formerly permitted in actions against the road; and further, "the pleadings in all such actions at law, suits in
equity, or proceedings in admiralty, now pending against
any carrier company for 'a cause of action arising since
December 31, 1917, based upon a cause of action arising
from or out of the operation of any railroad or other
carrier, may on application be amended by substituting
the Director General of Railroads for the carrier company
as party defendant and dismissing the company therefrom."_

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

The effect of § 10 and General Order 50-A were discussed in 1M1issouriPacificB. R. Co.v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554,
560; and it was there pointed out that while the transportation systems were controlled and administered by
the United States they were treated as separate entities,
"regarded much as ships are regarded in admiralty," and
"dealt with as active responsible parties answerable for
their own wrongs."
As well pointed out in Manbar Coal Co. v. Davis,
Circuit Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit, 297 Fed. 24, no
one was given the right to sue the Director General as
operator of all railroads, but his liability was carefully
limited to such as would have been incurred by some particular carrier if there had been no federal control.
Here the Director General came into court to defend
only against a liability asserted because of the negligence
of agents operating the New York, New Haven and Hartford system, and not because of anything which might
have been done or omitted by those of another system. In
such circumstances, under the statute and orders, we think
the court could adjudge no liability against him except
such as might have been enf6rced against the New York,
New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company before federal control. Under those conditions the United States
consented to be proceeded against. One reason therefor,
if any is necessary, seems plain enough. Every system
was operated as an entity; its agents and employees knew
and carried on its ordinary affairs, but not those of other
carriers. The Director General necessarily relied upon
the organization of each system, and could demand notice
sufficient to set the proper one in motion; otherwise
proper defenses might not be presented.
Reversed.

