OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

"30

Syllabus.

265 U. S.

SUPREME LODGE, KNIGHTS OF PYTH AS, v.
MEYER.
EROR AND CERTIORAI TO TnE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF NEBRASNA,

No.214. Argued March 12, 1924.-Decided April 28, 1924.
1. While proceedings in the federal courts are not within the terms
of Art. IV, § 1, of the Constitution, they nevertheless must be accorded the same full faith and credit by state courts as would be
required in respect of the judicial proceedings of another State.

P. 33.
2. Where statutes of two'States, couched in the same terms, receive
different constructions by the courts of their respective localities,
the constructions become parts of the respective statutes, which
are to be triated accordingly as different laws. P. 34.
3.In an action to recover insurance under a benefit certificate,
issued by a fraternal order- created by an act of Congress which
provided that its constitution, and the amendments thereof, should
not conflict with the laws of any State, 'adefense based on the
ref al of the insured to pay increased dues as required by an
amendment adopted by the order, was overruled by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska upon the ground that the order had not a
"representative form of government" within the meaning of a
statute of Nebraska in -force when the new rates were"adopted.
Held.
(a) The meaning attributed by the Nebraska Supreme Court to the
Nebraska statute must be accepted by this Court, on review, as
though it had been specifically expressed in ihe statute. P. 32.
(b) A decree of the federal court in Indiana, holding tat the order
had a "representative form of government " within the meaning of
a similar statute of that State, was not binding in the Nebraska
litigation, because the two issues--the muaning of the Nebraska
statute and the meaning of the Indiana statute-were not the same.
P. 33.
4 Under Jud. Code, § 237,.as amended by the Act of September 6,
\916, certiorari and not error is the remedy to review a state decision on a rikht claimed -under a federal statute or authority, where
the validity of the statute or authority itself is not in question.
P. 36.
109 Neb. 108, affirmed.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. MEYER.
Opinion of the.Court.

30

ERROR and certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Nebraska affirming a judgment for the plaintiff,
Meyer, in an action to recover insurance under a benefit
certificate issued by the plaintiff in error.

-Mr. W. 1. Connell and Mr. Sol H. Esarey,with whom
Mr. T. P. Littlepage,Mr. George A. Bangs and Mr. Ward
H. Watson were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr.D. W. Livingston, with whom Mr. C. F. Reavis was
on the brief, for defendant in error.

Mn. JusTIcE SuTH&mum delivered the opinion of tb
Court.
This case is here on error and, also upon petition for
writ of certiorari. Consideration of the latter was postponed until hearing on the merits.
Defendant in error was the beneficiary named in a
benefit certificate of life insurance issued to one of its
members, by the plaintiff in error, a fraternal order
created by Act of Congress of June 29, 1894, c. 119, 28
Stat. 96. Upon the death of the assured an action was
brought in a state court by the beneficiary to recover the
amount of the insurance, and judgment was rendered in
his favor. On appeal to the State Supreme Court the
judgment was affirmed on the authority of the decision of
the same court on a former appeal.
After.the insurance policy had gone into effect, the
Supreme Lodge, by an amendment, increased the dues
from $5.70 per month to $26.30 per month.' Prior to the
effectiv date of the new rates the assured had paid all
dues assessed under the .old rates. After such date he
refused to pay at the new rates, upon the ground, among
others, that in disregard of a state statute, the society was
not operating under a representative rm of government
when the rates were increased; but," Vgularly and duly
tendered payment at the old rates.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of'the Court.

265 U. S.

Section 4 of the Congressional Act provides: "That
said corporation shall have a constitution, and shall have
power to amend.the same at pleasure: Provided, That
such constitution or amendments thereof do not conflict
with the laws of the United States or of any State." A
statute of Nebraska in force at .the time the new rates
were adopted, defines a fraternal benefit society as a
corporation, etc., organized nd carried on for the sole
benefit of its members and their beneficiaries and not for
profit, and provides: "Each such society shall have a
odge system, with ritualistic form of work and representative formn of government."- § 1, c. 47, Laws of 1897,
p. 266.
According to the stipulation of facts, the Supreme
Lodge when it made the amendment increasing rates,
"was composed of 163 members and that of such members, nine were Past Supreme Chancellors and eight were
Supreme Officers of the defendant; 98 were holders of
certificates in the Insurance Department and 146 were
delegates elected biy the various Grand Lodges within the
order;" all of whom participated in enacting the amendment. On the first appeal, the State Supreme Court,
after a full discussion of the question and of the facts,
and a review of its earlier decisions, held that the body,
above described, did not constitute a representative form
of government, within the meaning of the state statute..
104 Neb. 505. Upon rehearing the court adhered to
this conclusion, Id. 511; and, upon the second Appeal,
again affirmed it. 109 Neb. 108.
Under the.. settled rule of this Court, declared so frequently and uniformly as to have become axiomatic, we
must accept this decision of the highest court of the State
fixing the meaning of the state legislation, as though such
meaning had been specifically expressed therein. See, for
ex mple, Leffingwell v. Warren., 2 Black, 599, 603; Green
Lessee-of Neal, 6 Pet. 291, 297-300. And we follow

KNIGHTS QF PYTHIAS v. MEYER.
30

(inion

33

of the Cour.

the state construction even though it may not agree with
our own opinion. Supervisorsv. United States, 18 Wall.
71; 82. Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361, 367; Tioga B. R.
v. Blossburg & Coming R. R., 20 Wall 137, 143.. No
question is raised as to the necessity for'complianc6 with
the provisions of the state statute; but the defense
pleaded and relied upon is that the matter was concluded
by a decree of the Federal District Court of Indiana,
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, Holt v. S.upreme
Lodge Knights of Pythias, 235 Fed. 885, establishing the
validity and enforceability of the increased rates; that
such decree was binding, as res adjudicata,upon Meyer,
the plaintiff; and that the court below, in declining to so
consider-it, denied full faith and credit to the judicial
proceedings of another State, in contravention of Art. IV,
§ 1,'f the Constitution of the United States and of § 905,
Revised Statutes.
-While the judicial proceedings of the federal courts are
not within the terms of the constitutional provision, such
proceedings, nevertheless, must be accorded the same full
faith and credit by state courts as would be required in respect of the judicial proceedings of another State. Hancock NationalBank v. Famum, 176 U. S. 640, 644; Embry
v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, 9. It appiears from the record in
the Holt Case, which was in evidence and is in the record
here, that the court expressly found that the society was;
during its entire existence, operating under a representative form of government. We assume, for present pur-:
poses, that the plaintiff is bound by that decree; but the
question-and the vital question-still remains, is the
issue the same? We are of the opinion that it.is not the
same and that the plca. of res adjudicatafails.
The principal place of business of the order was in
Indiana; and the question presented in the Holt Case,
which was brought in Indiana, evidently was whether

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
.Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

there was a representative form of government within the
meaning of the statute of that State, § 5043, 2 Burns'
Indiana Stats., 1914, p. 882, since the federal statute made
no requirement on the subject, and the finding, unless to
satisfy the Indiana law, would have been meaningless.
The.question of compliance with the statute of Nebraska
or those of-other States was 'not involved. The Indiana
statute is reproduced in the margin," and, as will be seen,

differs from the Nebraska statute in that the former
specifically defines what shall constitute a representative
-form of government, while the latter does not. But if we
assume, for the moment,--fhat the two statutes are alike,

nevertheless, our determination must be the same. It was
within the competency of the federal court to construe the
Indiana statute in one way, and it was tqually within the
competency of the Nebraska Supreme Court to construe
the Nebraska statute in an opposite way; and, since the
construction becomes part of the statute and is to be read
as though in its text, in the one case as in the other, the
result is that they are, in effect, not the same, but different

I § 5043.

".

..

Each association shall have a lodge system with

ritualistic form of work and a representative form of government. Any
association having a supreme governing or legislative body and sub-

ordinate lodges or branches by whatever name known, into which
members shall be elected, initiated and admitted in accordance with
ita constitution, laws, rules, regulations, and prescribed ritualistic

ceremonies, which subordinate lodges or branches sball be required by
such. association to hold regular or stated meetings at least once in
each month, shall be deemed to be operating under the lodge system.
Any. association shall be deemed to fave a representative form of
• government when it shall provide in its constitution and laws for a

supreme legislative or governing body, composed of representatives
elected either by the members or by delegates elected by the memhers through a delegate convention system, together with such other
members as may be prescribed by its constitution and laws: Provided,-

That the elective representatives shall constitute a majority in number
and have not less than a majority of the votes, nor less than the
votes required to amend its constitution and laws
.

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. MEYER.
30

Opinion of the Court.

statutes. In Christy v. Pridgeon, 4 Wall. 1,96, 203, this
Coirt said:
"Nor does it matter-that in the courts of other States,
carved out of territory.since acquired from Mexico, a different interpretation may have been adopted. If such be
the case, the courts of the United States will, in conformity
with the same principles, follow the different ruling so

far as.it affects titles in those States. The interpretation
within the jurisdiction of one State becomes a part of the
law of that State, as much so as ifincorporated into the
body of it by the legislature. If, therefore, different interpretations are given in different States to a similar local
law, that law in effect becomes by the interpretations, s&
far as it is a rule for our action, a different law in one State
from what it is in the other."
InLouisianav. Pilsbury,105 U. S. 278, 294, it wassaid:
"So far does this doctrhie extend, that when a statute
of -two States, expressed in the same terms, is constmed
differently by the highest courts, they are treated by us as
different laws, each embodying the particular construction
of its own State, and enforced in accordance with it in all
cases arising -nder it.' Shelby v. Guy,supra; May v.
Tenney, 148 U. S. 60, 64; Detroit v. Osborne, 135 U. S.
492, 498; Chicago Union Bank v. Kansas City Bank, 136
U. S. 223, 235. It follows that there is not identity of
issue in the two cases, since, so far as this Court is concerned, the statutes which determine it are of exactly opposite import. In principle, it is the same as though the
Indiana statute, which controlled the question decided
in the first suit, had been. superseded by a later Indiana
enactment to the contrary effect, and a second suit, arising
under and controlled by the later enactment, was br.ught,
involving the same question. The intervention of the
new and antagonistic statute in either case furnishes a
new basis for the litigation, and the issue is no longer the
same. Memphis City Bank v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 186.

OCTOBER TERM,- 1923.
Separate Opinion of McRENnows, J.

265 U. S.

192; Utter v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 416, 424; Erskine v.
Steele County, 87 Fed. 630, 636; affirmed 98 Fed. 215, 220.
Prior decisions of this Court are pressed upon our attention, of which Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pytliias v.
Mime, 241 U. S. 574, and Supreme Council of the Royal
Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531, are examples. They are
not ini point. Neither the effect of state statutes imposing
conditions like the one here under review, nor'the question in'respect of identity of issue, upon which the plea
of res adjudicata in the present case turns, was involved
or considered.
Under § 709, Revised Statutes, Jud. Code § 237, this
case would be properly here upon writ of error) Pittsburgh, &c.By. Co. v. Long Island Loan & Trust Co., 172
U. S. 493, 508; Hancock NationalBank v. Farnum,supra;
Embry v.Palmer, supra; but, as amended by the Act of
September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, the remedy is by
certiorari. We therefore dismiss the writ of error, grant
the petition for certiorari, Yazoo & M. V. R. R. Co. v.
(larksdale, 257 U. S.10, 15-16; and, for the reasons given
above, affirm the judgment of the State Supreme Court.
Affirmed.
The separate opinion of Vmi. JusmcE MCRaYwOLDS.

Claming as beneficiary, Meyer brought an action upon
•a policy issued by the Supreme Lodge in the Disfrict
Court, Otoe County, Nebraska.
The declaration allege.s: "That the defendant is, and
at all times herein mentioned was, a fraternal order or
organization maintaining a life insurance department for
-its members, organized and existing under an act of the
United States Congress, in the Disfrict of Columbia, and
having its principal offices and place of business, in the
City of Indianapolis, in the State of Indiana, and duly
authorized to transact its business in the State of Nebraska. That on and prior to the 11th day of June, 1885,

KNIGHTS OF PYTBIAS v. MEYER.
30

Separate Opinion of McRarxows, J.

Louis J. Meyer, a resident of Otoe County, Nebraska, was
.a member of a subordinate lodge of the defendant, and
on said date the said defendant issued and delivered to
the said Louis J. Meyer in Otoe Cointy, Nebraska, its
membership certificate No. 4651, by the terms of which
it insured the life of the said Louis J. Meyer in the sum
of $2,000.00, and agreed in the event of his death to pay
that sum to a beneficiary therein named. That on or
about the 31st of May, 1910, -the said Louis J. Meyer
surrendered said certificate to the defendant for the sole
purpose of changing the beneficiary therein named, and
thereafter the defendant issued in lieu thereof to the said
Louis J. Meyer its certificate of membership dated June
30, 1910, numbered 4651, insuring the life of the said
Louis J. Meyer in the sum of $2,000.00, by the terms of
which the defendant agreed that in the event of the death
of the said Louis J. Meyer" to pay to George 0. Meyer,
this plaintiff, the sum of $2,000.00, a copy of which membership certificate is hereto attached, marked Exhibit 'A,'
and made a part hereof." And further that the assured
died April 11, 1916, after performing all things reauired
of him.
Certifiote No. 4651-Exhibit A-recites that Louis J.
Meyer had been accepted as a member of the insurance
departm6nt and the Supreme Lodge promised to pay the
designated beneficiary two thousand dollars, subject to
certain conditions and payment of $5.70 each month.
Also, "the member holding this certificate shall make all
monthly"payments as they may be due from him, and
also make any extra or special monthly payments required
from him.

...

His rate of contribution hereunder may

be changed, increased or adjusted at any time in accordance with the laws of this society when deemed necessary
to carry out the purposes of thE. insurance department."
-The defense was that by a duly adopted rule, or law,
the Supreme Lodge had increased the monthly rates for

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of McR;nxous, .

265 U. S.

the time subsequent to January 1, 1911, and assured had
* refused to pay them.
The act of Congress which incorporated the Supreme
Lodge among other things provided, "That said corpora*tion shall have a constitution, and shall have power to
amend the same at pleasure: Provided, That such constitution or amendments thereof do not conflict with
the laws of the United States or of any State." Act
of June 29, 1894, c. 119 28 Stat. 96,. 97. Under this
federal charter it might amend its statutes, or by-laws;
and the change of rates was effective unless prohibited
by statute as to Nebraska members. The .obligation of
the contract between the lodge and the assured presents
a question of federal law. Supreme Counci ol the RoyaZ
Arcanum v. Green,237 U. S. 531; HartfordLife Insurance
Co. v. Ibs, id. 662; Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pythiasv.
Mims, 241 U. S. 574. This is plain under the last cited
case, which reviewed and reversed the judgment-of the
Texas court -denying the validity of the by-law here
questioned.
The court below held that under c. 47, Laws of Nebraska, 1897, the action of the Supreme Lodge in undertaking to increase rates was without* effect because the
association did not have a "representative form of government." And this makes it necessary to inquire
whether that act is fairly susceptible of the construction
adopted by the state court. Generally this Court accepts
the construction of a local statute approved by the state
court of last resort, but the rule does not apply where
this is fanciful and amounts to a mere subterfuge. Leathe
v. Thomas, 207 U. S. 93, 99; Vandaia,R. R. Co. v. South
Bend, i. .359, 367; EnterpriseIrigation,Districtv. Canad
Co., 243 U. S. 157, 164; Superior.Water Co. v. Superior,
263 U. S. 125, 136.
Chapter 47 contains twenty-four sections. - The first
declares: "A fraternal beneficiary associbtion is hereby

KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS v. MEYER.
30

Separate Opinion of McREsoms, J.

declared to be a corporation, society or voluntary association, formed or organized and carried on for the sole

benefit of its members and their beneficiaries, and not for
profit. Each such society shall have a lodge system, with
ritualistic form of work and representative form of gov-

ernment." The remaining sections relate to the organization and government of domestic corporations and provide for reports by and the licensing and duties of such
corporations when organized in other States. Section 16:

"Any such association refusing or neglecting to make the
reporft as provided in this act shall be excluded from
doing business within this state. The auditor of public
accounts must, within sixty days after the failure to make
such report, 6r in case any such society shall exceed its
powers, or shall conduct its business fraudulently, or shall
fail to comply with'any of the provisions of this act, give
notice in writing to the attorney general, who shall
immediately commence an action against such society to
enjoin the same from carrying on any business.

..

There is nothing in the act which excludes an association
with a government like that of plaintiff in error. It does
not undertake to invalidate contracts of such companies
after licenses have been issued to them. Nor do I Bind
that the laws of the State inhibited the auditor from
licensing- an association with a non-representative form
of government.
It is stipulated and agreed "that the defendant [plaintiff in error] is a fraternal order or organization, maintaining a life insurance department for its members,"
existing under an act of the United States Congress in
the District of Columbia, having its principal place of
-business in the City of Indianapolis and State of Indiana,
and authorized to transact business in the State of Nebraska during the period covered by the pleadings in
this case." With knowledge of its form of government
the duly designated official licensed it to do business
within the State.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Separate Opinion of McRaoLs, J.

265 U. S.

Attributing a fanciful meaning to the term "representative form of government," the court below declared
that the challenged by-law was not adopted as required
by the Nebraska statute and therefore was without force
*within that State. This was the excuse offered for annulling an agreement entered into by an association incorporated under federal law and duly licensed by the State.
A view of the statute is enough to show, that it did not
tmdertake to prescribe rules for the internal government
of-foreign corporations licensed to do business within the
State or to control agreements between such corporations
and their members.
Moreover, it seems impossible reasonably to conclude
that plaintiff in error had no "representative form of
government" because a few officers, by virtue of their
positions, constituted a small minority (10%) of the lawmaking body, otherwise composed of elected representatives. And certainly the conclusion of the court' is not
strengthened by the opinion which advances the following as the reason therefor :--" To retain the exercise of
governmental authority in the hands of the people is the
modern trend. Extended argument is not needed to
establish this fact. Witness the election of United States
senators by direct- vote; the direct primary; and the
initiative and referendum. Fraternal societies are no
exception to the rule."
In the circumstances I think we should refuse to accept
a ruling so obviously contrary to reason, treat it as a
mere subterfuge, and hold that under Suireme Lodge,
Knights of Pythias v. Mimes, supra, the rates were properly increased and by failing to pay them the assured
surrendered all rights under the policy.

