MISSOURI PAC. R. R. v. PRUDE.
96

99

Counsel for Parties.:

companies occupy the streets with their pbles and may be
required to pay. for it. Therefore we have no need to
decide how far the State might go in discouraging some
particular activity, if so minded, by.taxes as well as by
penalties. Hammond Packing Co. v. Montana, 233 U. S.
331. Neier shall we consider how far a legislature may
go when it deals with specified lands. Valley Farm Co.
v. Westchester, 261 U. S. 155.
Judgment affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
PRUDE.
ERROR AM CERTIORA

v.

TO' HE SUPREME COURT OF TE

STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 272. Submitted May 1, 1924.--Decided May 12, -1924.
1. A decision of a.State Supreme Court denying an interstate carrie an immunity based upon a stipulation on an interstate pas-

senger ticket held reviewable by certiorari and not by writ of
error. P. 100.

2. A ticket for interstate passage ovei several railroads bore a printed

stipulation limiting the selling carrier's liability to its own lines.
Held, that by accepting and usifig the ticket, though without

reading it, a passenger must be preshmed to have agreed to the
stipulation, thereby establishing a contract, prima facie valid, and
bindi g in a state court. P. 101.
156 Ark. 583, reversed.

ERROR and certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Arkansas affirming a judgment for damages in
an action against the above named railroad company
for an assault comniitted on the plaintiff while traveling
over the line of a connecting carrier.
Mr. Edward J.. White and Mr. Thomas B. Pryor for
plaintiff in error and petitioner.
Mr. S. S. Hargraves,Mr. S. H. Mann, Sr., and Mr. S. H.
Mann, Jr.,.for defendant in error and respondent.

10.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Cout.

AIR.JusTCE M

285 U. S.

ywolI)s delivered the opinion of the

-Court.
The writ of error was improvidently granted and must
be dismissed. The applica.tion'for.the writ of certiorari is
granted. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southem Ry. Co.
v. Starbird,243 U. S. 592. Act September 6, 1916, a. 448,
39 Stat. -726; Jud. Code, § 237.
Respondent purchased from petitioner a round-trip
coupon ticket issued at its office'in Forrest City, Ark.,
which auithorized her to travel over its line -to Texarkhna,
Ark., thence over the Texas Pacific Railroad to Longview,
Tex., and from the latter point.over the Interhational &
Great Northern Railroad to Houston, Tex., and return viathe same route. Claiming that while on the line of the
last-named companly she was assaulted by the -auditor,
she instituted an action to-recover damages from the
selling carrier in the Circuit Court for St. Francis County,
Ark.
Defending, the carrier set up- and established that the
ticket called for passage over three independent lines and
contained the' following: "In selling this ticket and
checking baggige hereon, the selling carrier acts only as
agent and is not responsible beyond its own lines." And
-it maintained that any assault upon respondent was by.
the auditor of the International & Great Northern Railroad Company for whose acts petitioner was not responsible.
The ticket was purchased over the telephone; When
respondent reached the depot she paid the purchase price
and was handed the ticket in an envelope. She did not
sign or inspect it.
The trial court denied a peremptory instruction in favor
of petitioner, and the case was sent to the jury upon
the theory that the assault constituted a breach of the
imi ftL carrier's contract for safe transportation. Judgmelt ,Went in favor of respondent for both compensatory

ATCHISON RY. CO. v. WELLS.
99 .

Syllabus.

and punitive damages, and was affirmed as to the former
by the Supreme Court of Arkansas. This was error.
An interstate carrier is entitled to the presumption that
its business is being conducted lawfully. Acceptance and
use of the ticket sufficed to establish an agreement, prima
fade valid, which limited the selling carrier's liability.
Mere failure of the passenger to read matter plainly placed
--before her cannot overcome the presumption of assent.
New York CentrqZ & Hudson RBiver R. R. o. v. Beaham,
242 U. S. 148, 151; Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio
Ry. Co. v. Woodbury, 254 U. S. 357, 360.
Revised.
ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RALWAY
COMPANY v. WELLS ET AL..
CERTIORARI TO TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF A PrALS FOR THE
FIFT" CIRCUIT.

No. 232. Argued April 23, 1924.-Decided May !2, 1924.
-1: The rolling stock of a railroad, and traffic balances owing it,
•are not exempt from attachment or garnishment merely.because
the former are used, and the latter derived, in 'interstate commerce. '. 103.
2. A state.statute permitting a citizen and r~sident of another State
to prosecute a cause of action which arose elsewhere, against a
railroad corporation -of another State, which is engaged in interstate commerce and neither owns nor operates a railroad, nor has
consented to be sued, in the State where the action is brought, is
so far, invalid. Davis v. Farmers Co-operative Co., 262 U. S. 312.
Id.
3. Judgments obtained by - garnishment and constructive service,
* against a fordign railroad corporation and a local railroad corporation, as garnishee, on such a cause of action, held void as an
unreasonable interference with interstate commerce, and their
enforcement subject to be enjoined in a suit by the foreign
corporation in a federal court against the judgment creditor and
his attorney. Id.
285 Fed. 369, reversed.

