DAVIS v. CORONA COAL CO.
215

Statement of the Case.

with reference to sewers built by the City and the regulation of the City's own property. They do not go far
enough to empower it to regulate prices charged by
another-and in short we find no grant of that character
elsewhere. But, as we have said, the Alabama decisions
sustain the conclusion that the City had the power to
make the contract .:upon which it relies. In Bessemer v.
Bessemer City Water Works, 152 Ala. 391, it was held
that a city even though having the power to regulate rates
could bind itself by contract, but the precise language of
the charter does not appear. The Federal Circuit Court
of Appeals in the same jurisdictioni takes the same view
of the AlabamiL decisions that we have expressed. -Birmingham v. Birmingham Waterworks Co., 213 Fed. 450,
affirming s. c. 211 Fed. 497.
Decree reversed.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS, AS
AGENT OF THE UNITED STATES, v. CORONA
'COAL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE PARISH OF.

OR

ANS OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 819. Argued May 5, -1924--Decided May 26, 192j.
An action by the Director General of Railroads, in a state court; to.
recover for damage done to a railioad wharf while it was under federal control, is'not.subject to the state statute of limitations. Cf.
Dupont De Nemours & Co. v. Davis,264 U. S. 456. P. 222.
Reversed.

to k judgment of the Court of Appeal 6f the
*Parish of Orleans, Louisiana, (which the Supreme Court
of the State declined to review,) sustaining the defense
of prescription in an action for damages brought by .the
Director General of Railroads.
CERTIORARi

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument -forRespondent.

265 U. S.

Mr. Harry McCall, with whom Mr. George Denggre,
Mr. Victor Leovy, Mr. Henry H. Chaffe, Mr. Jas. Hy.
Bruns, Mr. E. L. Gladney, Jr., Mr. A. A. McLaughli. and
Mr. Sidney F. 4ndrews were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Richard B. Montgomery, for respondent, submitted.
In Louisiana, the forum governs prescription, even on
a judgment of another State. Brown v. Stone, 4 La. Ann.
235; Taylorv. Haddea,7 La. Ann. 272.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana has found no distiiiction, as to prescription for torts, between public
ministerial officers and private individuals. New Orleans
v. Seuthern Bank, 31 La. 567.
Where a.government goes into business in concert, or
in competition, with its citizens, or where the mischiefs
to be remedied are of such a nature that the State must be
necessarily included, the statutes of limitations run
against the government. Calloway v. Cossart,45 Ark. 88.
The law providing, for the taking over of the railroads
temporarily by the Government undoubtedly intendd
the railroads to run as private business and that the
Government should not take advantage of its position as
a Government to advantage it in dealings with individuals. And in this case the defendant was engaged in
the business, of the railroad-that is, in landing and removing steamships to load or deliver railroad freight at
its own wharf.
The Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25,, ยง 10, 40 Stat. 451,
"provides: (1) That carriers, while under federal control,
are subject to all laws and liabilities as common carriers,
except (and this is the only exception) those inconsistent
with th" act or any other act applicable to federal control or with any order of the President. (2) That actions
at law and suits in equity may be brought by and against
such carriers and judgmenats rendered as now -provided by

DAVIS v. CORONA COAL'CO.
219

221

Opinion of the Court.

law. (3) That in any action at law or suit in equity
against the carrier "no defense shall be made thereto
upon the ground that the carrier is an, instrumentality or
agency of the Federal Government."
This certainly means that the Government is to be in
the place of the private owner of the railroad and subject
to all existing laws governing the business relations of the
railroads, and subject to the same suits and judgments.
And it means that, in all actions for or against the
carrier, the carrier cannot use the defense that it is an
instrumentality or agency of the Government; and this
would cover the defense to a plea of prescription. The
Government, in taking over the railroads, intended that
they should be governed by the laws exactly as when run
by private individuals, and it was not intended that the
people dealing with the railroads should in one particular
alone-and that a most unfair and unjust particular-be
met with the defense that the railroad is an agency of the
Government, in the case of a plea of prescription.
Matters of taxation, matters essentially governmental,
have no bearing on this case.
When the Federal Government, through its representatives, voluntarily invokes the aid of the state court, the
state law, as to prescription, not the federal law, prevails.
Mli. JusTIci, HoLIs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On March 3, 1923, the Director General of Railroads
sued the respondent Coal Company in a City Court -of
New Orleans, for damages done by it to a railroad wharf
on January 9, 1920, while the wharf was under federal
control. The Coal Company pleaded the prscription of
one year.under-the statutes of Louisiana. Civil Code,
Art. 3536. This defence was upheld by the City Court
and by the Court of Appeal and a. review was denied by
the Supreme Court on the ground that the ruling below

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

was correct. A writ of certiorari was granted by this
Court.
In Dupont De Nemours & Co. v. Davis, 264 U. S. 456,
it was held that the Director General was not barred by
the statutes of the United States in an action on behalf of
the United States in its governmental capacity to recover
upon a liability arising out of his control. The familiar
rule was repeated that the United States should not be
held to have waived any sovereign right or privilege unless
it was plainly so provided. The reasoning'of that case
excludes the notion that *ere was any intentional waiver
by the United States of its sovereign right to collect its
claims, irrespective of any. statute, "as soon as pra~c.ticable." The provisions of ยง 10 of the Federal Control
Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451, 456, subjecting carriers "to all laws and liabilities as common carriers, whether arising uiider State or Federal laws or at
common law, except" &c., rightly was said by the counsel
for the petitioner to do no more than subject operations
of the carriers to existing laws, not to adopt from the
States their several limitations to suits that this Government might bring, while the United States applied no
* limitations of its own. The distinction in the statute betveen -carriers and the Government is pointed out in the
above cited case. Also it is established that a state statute of limitations cannot bar the United States, at least
when a suit is brought in the United States courts.

United States v. Thompson, 98 U. S. 486. United States
V. Nashville, Chattanooga& St. Louis Ry. Co., 118 U. S.
120. Chesapeake & DelawareCanal Co. v. United States,
250 U. S. 123, 125. The only question that requires a
further word is whether the Courts below were right in
thinking that the lex fori imposed a different rule if the
United States saw fit to sue in a state court.
Perhaps it was not quite fully remembered that the
laws of the United States ard a part of the lex fori of a

DAVIS v. CORONA COAL CO.
219

Opinion of the Court.

State. But however that may be, it has been decided
by a series of cases that when the courts of a State are
given general jurisdiction over a certain class "of contro-

versies the power of the State over its own courts cannot
be used to exclude a party from what otherwise is a constitutional right. 'International Textbook Co. v. Pigg,
217 U. S. 91, 111. Kenney v. Supreme Lodge of the
World, 252 U. S. 411, 415. Missouri ex tel. Burnes National Bank v. Duncan, ante, 17. If the section of the
Louisiana Code after the limitation that it expresses went
on to say that the United States is forbidden to sue in the
courts of the Staie upon such claims over a year old,
although but for this limitation it might, the exception
could not be maintained. But we hardly believe that if
the matter were baldly presented the Code would be construed in that way. The ruling below was based upon
the belief, since shown to be mistaken, that the United
States had waived its immunity from the state laws.
Judgment feversed.

