322

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. S.

Williame, 23 Fed. 607; Herningsen. Produce Co. v.
Whal.', 238 Fed. 650. But in Coopersvllle Co-operative
Creamery Co. v. Lemon, 163 Fed. 145, it was held valid.
We think that decision fails to take into account and give
proper weight to the conflict between ihe act and the
regulation; See Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; United
-States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677; In. re Kollbck, 165 U. S.
526; Buttfield v. Stranahan,,'192U. S. 470; Williamson v.
United States, 207 U. S. 425; United States v. Grimaud,
220 U. S. 506. It must he held thai the regulation is
invalid.
The act does not prescribe any standard for moisture in
butter. In its manufacture, the variation of moisture
ranges above as well as below the quantities found i' the
butter in question, and its moisture content cannot be
said to be "abnormal". It was made in the usual way.
*There was no process or niaterial used with intent or effect
of causing absorption of abnormal quantities of moisture.
It was not adulterated within the meaning of the act.

Judgment affirmied.
SWENDIG ET:-AL. v. WASHINGTON WATLER
POWER COMPANY.
APPFAL .FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No.. 142. Argued February 21, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
1. The Adt of Iarch 3, 1901, providing for granting rights of way

for telephone lines, does not apply to wires strung on the poles of
an eletric power line and used only in connbciion with its operation and maintenance. P. 327.
2. The Act of February 15, 1901, authorizes the Secretary of the In-

terior, under general regulations to be fixed by him, to permit the
use of~rights of way through the public lands, reservations and certain parks,, for electric power lines, eta., .and declaes that such

SWENDIG v. WASHINGTON CO.
322

323

Argument for Appellants.

permission may be revoked by the Secretary who gave it or his
successor, in his discretion, and shall not be held to confer any
right, or easement, or interest in, to, or over any public land,
reservation, or park. Hdd:
(a) The right of use continues until the permit has been revoked
by the Secretary. P. 329.
(b) The Secretary has power to adopt a regulati 6n that final disposition by the United States of any tract traversed by a permitted
"right of way" shall revoke the permission quoad that tract; and
to changd the regulation by providing that tracts when so diiposed
of shall remain subject to a right of use previously permitted until
the permission has been specifically revoked under the act. Id.
(c) Where lands of an Indian reservation- on which an electric transmission line was conitructed and in operation under such a permit,
-were thrown open and entered under the homestead law, at a time.
when a regulation provided that final disposition of the tracts
should revoke the permit pro tanto, and were afterwards conveyed
to the entrymen by patents nmking no reservation of the permit,
but not until after the regulations had been amended to continue
the permission in such cases until specifically revoked,-the
- patentees took subject to the permit. P. 330.
281 Fed. 900, a nrmed.

APPAL.frpm a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which afrmed a decree of the District Court enjoining the
appellants from interfering with the operation and use of
the appellees (plaintiff's) electric power line, and quieting te appellee's right to use the land traversed by it,
under permits from the Secretary of the Interior.
Mr. James F. Ailshie for appellantS.

Under the act of Congress, appellee acquirdd no ease-

ment, interest or title, but'only a. license.

-

Its present rights must be construed as the rights of any

other individual operating under a revocable license, and
its rights may be extinguished in the same manner and
under the same condition as those of a licensee under a
private individual.
If the United States could revoke this permit or license

at its option, clearly it is revoked by any act on the part

324

OCTOBER "TERM; 1923;
ArgumeAt for Appelants.

265 U.S.

of the United States which shows an intent to revoke, or
which is inconsistent with the continued existence of. the
license.
Any act of the Government which withdraws the lands
-from the category of ."public land, reservation, or park"
terminates the- permit, since such a 1ermit can only be
grant d over, such lands.
It is an elementary-principle of law that for a license to
exist the licensor must have some right to or interest in the
thing upon which-the license is to operate, and that when
such right or interest of the licensor is extinguished, so also
is the license extinguished. It appears to have been uniformly' held that an absolute conveyance -of land revokes
any license to the use thereof. De Haro v. -UnitedStates,
5 Wall. 599; 18 Am. & Eng. Encyc. of-Law, p. 1141.
. When a patent, absolute upon its face, has been issued
by the Land Department and delivered "and accepted by
the patentee, the title of the United States goes with it
and all right to .control the title or land, or to. decide on
the right to the title, has passed from the Executive Department of the Government. United States v. Schurz,
102 U. S. 378; Moore v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530; Iron
Silver Min. Co. v. Campbell, 135 U. S. 286; United States
v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525.
At the time when the Indian Reservation was thrown
open to settlement, the regulations of the Land Department provided that a patent issued to a settler would revoke any permit outstanding on the land under this statute. This regulation was in effect when these appellants
made their homestead entries, and when *one of them
made final proof.
The Land Department changed the regulations. (41 .
L. D. 152) later; but if it be granted that it could change
the construction of the statute, it could not thereby affect
the xights of these appellants.
Entry by a settler upon public land, and the receipt of
9a certificate of entry from the Land Department, instantly

SWENDIG v. WASHINGTON CO.
322

325

Opinion of the Court.

segregates the land from the public domain; and a patent
subsequently issued takes effect as of the date of the entry.
Witherspoon'v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Wirth v. Branson,
98 U. S. 118; Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456.
This identical question came up before the Land Department in a -case wherein appellee was also a party,
Nye v. Washington Water Power Co. (April 23, 1921).
.Mere occupation and improvement of public. land does
not confer a vested right in the land so occupied, so that
the occupant can maintain a. right of possession against
the United States or the grantee of the United States.
Northern Pac.R. R. Co. v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260; Johnson
v. Drew, 171 U. S. 93.
The principle that one should be estopped from asserting a right to property about which he has, by his conduct,
misled another, cainot .be invoked against- the United
States, or by one who, at the time the improvements were
made, was acquainted with the true character of his title
or with the fact that he had none. Steel v. Smelting Co.,
106 U. S. 447.
The Act of March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1083, applies only to
telejhone lines operated for the use anil benefit of the
public at large, where the company operates them as a
business and charges tolls, and'not for its own private use
as.an accessory to some, other bisiness.
Appellee should pay just compensation for an easement.
Mr. Frank T. Post, with whom Mr. John P. Gray was
on the brief, for appellee.
MIR. JusTicE BuR delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellee is a corporation engaged in the generation ajid
distribution of electrical energy in Washington and Idaho.
It has a high tension power transmission line extending
from Spokane, Washington, to Burke, Idaho,'in the Cceu
d'Alene Mining District. The line was constructed in
190z and 1903. A portion of it was located across certain

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

lands then unsurveyed and constituting a.part of the
Cceur d'Alene Indian Reservation. Telephone wires were
strung on the poles carrying the power line for use in connection with the operation and maintenance of that line.
And there was constructed a'patrol road necessary for.the
maintenance of the power line. Ever since its construction, the power line has been used to furnish electrical
energy in that district.
July 7, 1902, the Secretary of the Interior under authority of the Act of Febiuary 15, 1901, c. 372, 31 Stat.
790, granted appellee a permit for the use of a right of
way upon which to construct and maintain the power line
through the reservation; and about the same time, he
granted appellee a right of way for the construction and
operation of a telephone line through the reservation, under authority of the Act of March 3, 1901, c. 832, 31 Stat.
1083.
An Act of Congress of June 21, 1906, c.3504, 34 Stat.
335, provided for the allotment of lands within the reservation to members of the Cceur d'Alene Tribe, and authorized the opening to settlement and entry of the lands remaining undisposed of. Pursuant to the President's
proclamation, this was done in May, 1910. Appellants
respectively made homestead entries of certain of those
lands across which the power line had been constructed,
and later received patents therefor.' The patents are
absolute in form and contain no exception or reservation
in respect of the power line or privileges granted appellee.
The appellants; denying the right of appellee after patents
to operate 4nd maintain the power line across the lands
described in their patents, interfered with and threatened
to prevent its uge. Appellee brought a suit in the United
'Dates of filings and patents are as follows: Swendig filed May 2,
1910; patent isued October 30, 1913. Miller filed May 4, 1910;
patent issued January 23, 1913 [1914]. Grab filed May 7, 1910;
patent issued September 24, 1912. Kerr filed December 22, 1910;

patent issued October 15, 1918.

SWENDIG v. WASHINGTON CO.
322

327-

Opinion of the Court.

States District Court -for Idaho against each of the appellants to enjoin such interference, and to have it decreed
that the patents did not revoke or affect the permits, and
that they are in full force and effect. Jurisdiction was in"voked on the ground that the suits arose under the laws of
the United States above referred to. The four cases were
tried together. The District Court granted appellee the
relief prayed. Its decree "vasaffirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 281 Fed. 900. The case is here on appeal under § 241 of the Judicial Code.
The question to be decided is whether, as to the lands
described therein,, the patents issued to appellants revoked or canceled the permits theretofore granted to appellee by the Secretary.
The Act of March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1083, relating to
rights of way for the construction of telephone lines does
not apply. The telephone -wires are used only in conneclion with the operation and maintenance of the power
lifne. Appellee's rights are to be determined under the
Act of February 15, 1901. Its material provisions are:
" That the Secretary of the Interior be, and hereby is,
authorized and empowered, under general regulations to
be fixed by him, to permit the use of'rights of way through
the public lands, forest and other reservations of the
United States, and the.Yosemite, Sequoia, and General
Grant National parks, California, for electrical plants,
poles, and lines for the generation and distribution of electrical power, and for telephone and telegraph purposes,
and for canals, ditches, pipes, and pipe lines, flumes, tunnels, or other-water conduits, and for water plants, dams,
and reservoirs used to promote irrigation or mining or
quarrying, or the manufacturing or cutting of timber or
lumber, or the supplying of water for domestic, public, or
any other beneficial uses to the extent of the ground occupied by such canals, ditches, flumes, tunnels, reservoirs, or
other water conduits or water plants, or electrical

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

or other works permitted hereunder, and not to exceed
fifty feet on each side of the marginal lints thereof, or
not to exceed fifty feet on each side of the center line of
such pipes and pipe lines, electrical, telegraph, and tele.phone lines and poles, by any citizen, association, or corporatibn of the United States, where it is intended by such
to exercise the use permitted hereunder or [for] any one
or more of the purposes herein named: . .
And provided further,That any permission given by the Secretary
of.the Interior under the provisions of this Act may be
revoked by him or his successor in his discretion, and shall
not be held to confer any iight, or easement, or interest in,
to, or over any public land, reservation, or park."
When the homestead entries were made by appellants,
the regulation of July 8, 1901, was in force. Paragraph 11
(31 L. D. 17) contains the following: "The final disposal
by the United States of any tract traversed by the permitted right of way is of itself, without further act on the
part of the Department, a revocation of the permission
so far as it affects that tract, and any permission granted
hereunder is also subject to such further and future regulations as niay be adopted by the"Department." August
24, 1912, before the patents were issued, this provision was
superseded by the following regulation (41 L. D. 152,
par. 9): "The final-disposal by the United States of any
tract traversed by a right of way permitted under this act
shall not be construed to be a revocation of such permission in whole or in part, but such final disposal shall
be deemed -and taken to be subject to such right of way
until such permission shall have been specifically revoked
in accordance with the provisions of said act." At the
same time, the Secretary by regulation required that all
patents issued have on their face a notation of prior
permits.2
2

The order with respect to notations was recalled and vacated by
the regulations approved April 14, 1915 (44 L. D. 6). See also 45
L. D. 477.

SWENDIG v. WASHINGTON CO.
322

329

Opinion of the Court.

It was competent for Congress to make subsequent

homestead entries subject to the Act of February 15,
1901, and to the regulations fixed by the Secretary. And
undoubtedly the power and authority of the Secretary
under the act may be so exercised as to affect the rights
and limit the title of subsequent homestead entrymen.
Within the scope of'the authorization, he may make, and
from time to time change, regulations for the administration of the act. The rights of appellants as entrymen
were subject to the proper exercise of that power. The
regulation in effect when appellants settled on the land
expressly provided that permissions granted were. subject
to further and future regulation. At that time, the right
of way was occupied and used for the operation of the
power line. When the patents issued, that regulation had
been superseded by he one of August 24, 1912.
Appellants contend that appellee acquired a mere
license temporarily to use the-right of way through the
lands in question, and that the patents without more revoked the license and deprived appellee of its right of way
over the lands therein, described. In support of this contention, they stress the concluding clause of the act; stating that the permission given " shall not be held to confer
any right, or easement, or interest in, to, or over any
public lanld, reservation, or park." The purpose of the act
is to grant to the Secretary power " to permit the use of
rights of way?' through the lands referred to. And, in
order that control over them may be retained, it is provided that the Secretary in his discretion may revoke such
permits. The enterprises mentioned in the act involve
expensive and permanent construction. The use of land
necessary for the undertakiugs specified is to be distinguished from mere licenses to travel over, graze cattle on,
or otherwise use or occupy land without investment for
construction or improvements. Plainly, the piecemeal
revocation of the right of Way, whenever a patent is

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

issued to a settler along the line, would increase the financial burden and add elements of risk to the investments,
and so be inconsistent with the purpose of the act. The
clause above quoted should be read to promote and ad•vance, not to defeat, the legislative purpose to permit
the use of rights of way through public lands for the
industries and utilities mentioned. It is included from an
abundance of caution to support and safeguard the Secre.tary's power of revocation. It means that the permissions
given shall not be deemed to confer any right that may
not be revoked by him in the exercise of his discretion.
There is no other enactment providing for the termination of the 'use of the rights of-way. The right to use continues until the permission given by the Secretary is
revoked by him.
As the sole power of revocation was committed to his
discretion, it was within the power of the Secretary to
determine that final disposal of the lands would operate
to revoke the permission; and it was also within his power,
by the regulation of August 24, 1912, to declare that
"final disposal shall not be deemed to be a revocation, but
shall be subject to the right of way until such permission
shall have been specifically revoked. Upon elaborate
consideration, in 1912, the Secretary held that the provision of the regulation first above quoted was directly
contrary to the purpose of the statute. He said, "It
disc6uraged development by making the title of the .permilittee subject to that of the final patentee of the land
occupied under the permit, . ..
To effectuate the
purpose of the statute it is necessary that a permit once
given should be superior to the rights of the subsequent
patentee of the land until such time as the permit is duly
revoked b'y the Secretary-of the Interior in the exercise
of the express authority given by the statute.
. .
The regulations hereinbefore made [41 L. D., supra]
will protect permittees from any demands that might

SWENDIG v. WASHINGTON CO.
322

.331

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise be made upon them by subsequent claimants of
the lands over which the permits, give a right of way."
(Letter of August 23, 1912, from the Secretary of the
Interior to the Commissioner of the General Land Office.)
The regulation is still in effect. The construction and
application of the act so made and provided for have been.
followed since that time. If the meaning of the act were
not otherwise plain, this interpretation would be a useful
guide to the ascertainment of the legislative intention. It
is a "settled rule that the practical interpretation of an
ambiguous or uncertain statute by the Executive Department charged with its administration is entitled to the
highest respect, and, if acted upon for a number of years,
will not be disturbed except for very cogent reasons."
Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613, 627.
Appellants contend, and it is true as a general rule, that
when, conformabl- to the laws, entry is made and certifi-.
cate given, the land covered ceases to be'a part of the
public lands (Witherspoon v. Duncan,4 Wall- 210, 219),
and that, when a patent issues in accordance with governing statutes, all title and- control of the land passes from
the United States. United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S.
378,. 396. But we hold that, under the act and the regulation made pursuAnt to it and in force when the patents
issued, these rules do not operate to strike down rights,
subject to which, under the law, the lands are patented.'
Under the permission of the Secretary, the power line had
been constructed and was maintained on the right of way
over the lands in question for a long time before the reservation was opened for settlement. The entries were made
subject to the regulations then in force, and were affected
by the provision that "any permission granted hereunder
is also subject to such further and future regulations as
may be adopted by the Department." The fact that the
patents did not have thereon a notation of the.prior per-

832

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

285 U. S.

mit is not controlling. Under the regulation then in force,
final disposal did not reVoke the pqrmit, but was made
subject to the use of the right of way for the power line.
It was intended that the patent should not extinguish the
.earlier permission given by the Secretary. The issuing
of the patents without a reservation did not convey what
the law reserved. They are to be given effect according to
the laws and regulations under which they were issued.
See Stoddard v. Chambers,2 How. 284, 318; Jamestoum &
Northern,R. R. Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S. 125; Smith v. Townsend, 148 U. S. 490.
Decree affirmed.
ASAKURA v. CITY OF SEATTLE ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON

No. 211. Argued February 25, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
1. The treaty-making power extends to all proper subjects of negotiation between our Government and.foreign nations, including that
of promoting friendly relations by establishing rules of equality between foreign subjects whil6 here-and native citizens. P. 341.

2. A rule of equality thus established stands on the same footing of
supremacy as the Federal Constitution and laws, cannot be rendered nugatory in any pait of the Uiited States by municipal ordinances or state laws, operates without the aid of legislation, state or
national, and is to be applied and given authoritative effect by the
courts. Id.
3. A treaty is to be liberally construed; when two constructions are
vossible, one restrictive of rights that may be claimed under it and
the other favorable to them, the latter is to be preferred. P. 342.
4. The Treaty of April 5, 1911, with Japan, provides that the citizens or subjects of each of the High Contracting Parties shall have
liberty to enter, travel and reside if the territories of the other
"to carry on trade, .
.
to own or lease and occupy .
shops, . . ; to lease land for . . . commercial purposes,
and generally t do anything incident to or necessary for trade

upon the same termi as native citizens or subjects, submitting
themselves to the laws and regulations there established," and "shall

