384

OCTOBER TERM,- 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.:

there being merely a different apportionment' between
the two funds.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
_Affirmed.

BETRICK v. VILLAGE OF LINDSEY,ET AL.
ERROR T0.THM SU1PFlME COURT OFI:HB.STATE OF OHIO.

No. 231. Argued April 23, 1924.-Decided June 2, 1924.
Failure of the state law to provide for notice and hearing before the

makiig of a special assessment by a village council, does not deprive the assessed- owhier of his property without due process,when the law affords him, and he accepts, opportunity to deter-

mine all .questions of law and fact as to the validity, fairness, and
proper amount of -the assessment, by proceedings brought by him
in the state*courts. P. 387.
Airmed.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Supreme Coutt of Ohio
which dismissed, as frivolous, a petition in error to review
a. judgment of the State Court of Appeals revising a
special assessment.
Mr. Albert H. Fry for plaintiff.in error.
Mr. V. J. Mead for defendants in error.

MR.- CHmF"JVuS mc TA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Hetrick owned two lots in the Village'of Lindsey, Ohio,
No. 175.and No. 176. He brought suit in the Common
Pleas Court of Sa'ndusky County against the Village arud
the Auditor and Treasurer of the county, to enjoin the collection of front foot street assessments levied by the
village council against t!le two lots. He contended, frst,
that .the assessment exc&'.ded the benefits to the lots or
either of them; second, th It the assessment was inexcess
of the limit allowed by. la, v to.be fevied upon, property

HETRICK v. VILLAGE OF LINDSEY.
384

385

Opinion of the Cour.

for local improvement, which by the statute was onethird of its value; third, that the assessment *as in viola,
tion'of the due process claus6 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. of the Ubited States, in that
there was no provision for notice to be given to the owner
of the 'property to be assessed and an opportunity to be
heard before the tax was levied.
Evidence was taken on the question of benefits and the
value. of the lots. The Common Pleas Court sustained
the assessment in its entirety and dismissed the petition.
The plaintiff then appealed to the Court of Appeals of
the county, and the case was reheard by that court on
new evidence. Section 3819 of the General Code of
Ohio, in part, is as follows:
" The council shall limit all assessments to the special
benefits conferred upon the property assessed, and in no
case shall there be levied upon any lot or parcel of land
in the corporation any assessment or assessments for any
or all purposes, within a, period of five years, to exceed
thirty-three and one-third per cent of the actual value
thereof after the improvement is made."
The Court of Appeals found that the value of the lots,
after the -completion of the improvement, was $2,600,
and that they were especially benefited to the extent of
one-third of this -value, reduced the assessments from
$1,040.60 on both lots to $866.67, and enjoined the collection of more than this amount. The Court of Appeals
found other facts as follows:
Notice of the passage of the resolution of necessity for
the improvement had been served by the clerk of the
council in writing on the plaintiff personally within the
time required by the statute. He had full knowledge of
the work as it progressed and made no objection. thereto.
He appeared with his counsel before the village council,
consflted'with it as to the manner of the construction
of the improvement and succeeded in having its char-

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

acter changed in front of his property to conform to his
desire. -He never requested a hearing before the council
..'i the public necessity of the improvement or the validity
or amount of the assessment.
in due time after the decree in the Court of Appeals;
plaintiff filed a petition in error in the Supreme Court
of the State. The defendants made a motion to dismiss
it, on the ground that no leave to file it had been gra4ted.
The plaintiff claimed that no leave, was necessary under
the state practice, because the case involved a question
under the Constitution of the United States as to the
validity of the statutes of the State relating to special
assessments for street improvements. The defendants
answered that such statutes had been so long held constitutional by the courts of the State that their constitutionality could no longer be questioned, and therefore
that the petition should be dismissed, presumably as
frivolous. The court sustained the motion and dismissed
the petition. .A writ of error to bring the case here was
allowed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of th-e
State.
The decisions of fact by the state Court of Appeals
that the assessment did not exceed the benefit of the
property and that it did not exceed one-third of the value
of the property after the improvement was completed,
are not questioned here. The only point of contention
made is that the Ohio statutes.relating to special assessments for street improvements do not require a notice
to, and a hearing on behalf of, -the owner of the property
assessed by the village council and 'therefore !iermit the
owner to be deprived of his pioperty without due pr6cess

of law.
. Section 12075 of the General Code of Ohio has for
many years provided as follows:.
. "Common pleas and superior courts may enjoin the ilfegal levy. or collection of taxes and ass6ssments, and en-

HETRICK v. VILLAGE OF LINDSEY.
384

387

Opinion of the Court.

tertain actions to recover them back when collected, without regard to the amount thereof, but no recovery, shall

be had unless the action be brought within one year after
the taxes or assessments are collected."
Under this section the plaintiff had two full hearings
in two courts upon the merits of the assessments, that is,
.uponthe question whether the special benefits conferred
were greater than the value of the property, and second,
whether the assessment exceeded one-third of the value
of the.property. This Is in accord with the previous decisions of the Supreme Court of Ohio in reference'to the
pbwer of the state courts in passing on the validity of
assessments either in a suit to collect the same or in a
suit by the assessment payer to enjoin them. Walsh v.
Sims, 65 Oh. St. 211; Griswold v. Pett6'n, 34 Oh. St. 482.
It thus appears that the plaintiff in this case had had opportunity by contesting the assessment in court to review
all the questions of law and fact as to the validity and
fairness of the assessment under the statutes of Ohio, that
these facts were passed upon by the court and that the
plaintiff had secured from that court a reduction of the
assessment. In such a case it has been frequently decided that the judicial procedure constitutes due process
of law and supplies every requirement'for due notice and
hearing. McMillan v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37, 41; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104-5; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S.345, 355-6; King v. Portland,184 U. S.
61, 70; Ballard v. Hunter, 204 U. S.241. 255; Embree v.
Kansas City Road District, 240 U. S. 242, 251; Mt. St.
Mary's Cemetery v. llullins, 248 U. S.501, 506.
It is unnecessary for us to consiaIer, therefore, the sufficiency of notice and opportunity for a, hearing before
the council under the statutes of Ohio for assessments, or
the question whether plaintiff was estopped by his acquiescence and *Conduct from raising such an issue.
Decree affirmed.

