518

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. S.

render for the time being and pursue the course indicated
in the next paragraph of this order.

18. The receiver is instructed to publish notice to all
claimants to funds in his custody derived from flodplain wells (meaning wells south of the interstate boundary as n6w established) to present their claims to such
funds within forty days after the first publication of such
notice,-the presentation to be in the form of a definite
statement of what is claimed and of the claimant's title.
After the expiration of twenty days more the receiver
shall be authorized, where there are no conflicting claims,
to pay the proceeds from any well or wells, less expenses
and charges, to the proper claimant or claimants. If
there. be controversy or doubt as to who is entitled to the
proceeds frdm any well the receiver shall withhold action
as to such proceeds and report the matter to this Court
at its next term for further instructions.
19. The receiver is directed to have all of his accounts
audited as of the close of business on June 30, 1924, by
an expert public accountant designated by the Chief
Justice.
IDAHO IRRIGATION- COMPANY, LTD., ET AL. v.
GOODING ET AL.
GOODING ET AL. v. IDAHO IRRIGATION COMPANY, LTD., ET.AL.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 324=
ad 336. Argued April 11, 14, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924.
1. A contract by a water company 'in Idaho granting a water right
of so much water per acre is to be read with and controlled by stat-"
utes of the State limiting hllowances to the amount used for beneficial purposes, and, forbidding a water-right owner to use more
than good husbandry requires. P. 523.

IDAHO IRRIG.- CO. v. GOODING.
518

Stitement of the Case.

2. A State, through contract with an irrigation company, undertook
to reclaim public lands under the Carey Act, and applied for and
obtained from the Secretary of the Interior a patent for an area
fixed by him, upon evidence that an ample supply of water was
actually furnished to reclaim it as contemplated by the act. Held,
that the action of the Secretary, regarded as an adjudication that
the supply was adequate for all the land included, did not bind
settlers on the project who purchased water-rights from the company and who sought to enjoili it from violating their contracts by
selling 3Aore rights in excess of the water actually available.
P. 523.
3. Owners of water-right shares in a Carey Act project in Idaho,
held bound to share water proportionately with others who were
sold like shares by the water company in excess of the water
supply, but entitled to enjoin the company from disposing of additional rights. P. 524..
4. An Idaho water company which sold water rights on a Carey
Act project in excess of the water supply, held properly to be enjoined from reselling other shares which it had sold and reacquired
* through .foreclosure, even thbugh appurtenant, under Comp. Stats.,
Idaho, § 3018, to land owned by itself, since, under the Carey Act
and the Idaho law, water ights are distinct property not inseparably attached to the land for the irrigation of which they were
acquired. P. 525.
285 Fed. 453k affirmed in part and reversed in part.
A1ppL-and cross appeal from i decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming, with modifications, a.decree

of injunction .entered by the District Court in a suit
brought by owners of water rights (with whom the State
of Idah& joined, by intervention,) to prevent the abovenamed Irrigation Company, and other defendants, from
disposing of further water rights in an irrigation "project", in -violation of the plaintiffs' contracts. The suit

came into the]District Court by removal from a court
of IdAho.
Mr. Gordon M. B1uck, with whom Mr. Raymond .
Scultywas on the'bkiefs, for the Idaho Iriigation Company, Ltd.

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
OpHion of the Court.

-

265U.S.

Mr.HarrisonTweed for the Equitable Trust Compaiiy
of Nei York et al., Trustees.
- Mr. W. G. BiseUl; with whom Mr. Branch Bird and
Mr.Xar(Painewere on the briefs, for Gooding. et al.
MR. JusICE SuTmm
2 xD delivered.the opinion of the
Court.
These are separate appeals" by the respective parties
from the same' decree, 285 Fed. 453, in part affirming and
in part reversing the Federal District Court for Idaho..
The Idaho Irrigation Company, Limited,' is a. corporation organized as a construction company for the purpose
of reclaiming lands under the Carey Act, c. 301; § 4, 28
Stat. 422. The other appellants in No. 324 (appellees in
No. 336) are trustees for bondholders of the Irrigation
.Company and certain intervening individual owners of
land, who had purchased water righfs after this suit was
brought and a Mis pendens filed. Appellees (appelAnts
'r
No. 336) are individual owners of water rights, purchased from the Irrigation Company under the.Carey
Act, and the State of Idaho, which intervened as a party

plaintiff.
The water-rights are represented by shares of btock in
the Big Wood River Reservoir & Canal Company, organized as an operating company by the Irrigation Company
in pursuance., of contract' with the State of Idaho.
The. suit, brought in a state court and removed to the
Federal District Court, was to enjoin the Irrigation Conpany and the trustees from selling, disposing of or transferring upon the books of the company any shares of the
Reservoir and Canal Company held as assets of the Irrigation Company or as trustees for the benefit of bondholders; and to enjoin the Irrigation Company from making further contracts for the sale'of water rights, or selling, disposing of or transferrp.g any shares of the Reser-

- IDAHO MRIG. CO. V. GOODING.
518:

521

Opinion of ihe Court.

voir & Canal Company which the Irrigation Company
owned or. controlled.
By the Carey Act the United States binds itselfto
donate, grant and patent to a. State, complying with
stated conditions, desert lands, which the State may cause
to be irrigated, reelhimed and occupied. The State is
required to file amap of the land proposed to be irrigated,
showing the plan of irrigation,. etc., and is authorized to
,'make contracts to cause the lands to be reclaimid, and to
induce their settlement and cultivatibn. Upon satisfactory proof the Sei'retary of the Interior is directed to issue
patents to the State or its assigns. In pursuanc" of the
Carey Act and of- its own statuted :to carry that act into
effect, c. 136, Idaho Comp. Stats., 1919, p. 848, the State
of Idaho entered into contracts with the Irrigation'Com"pany for the reclaniation of approximately 167,000 acres
of land; and the Company entered into contracts with
appellees and other settlers to furnish watei for lands to
be aquired bj-them in the project, to be represented by
shares of stock in the Reservoir & Canal Company.
. By these contracts, made on January
2, 1909, and prior
datts, the Irrigation Company, -unlderstood to be .the
owner of the right to diyert 6,000 cubic feet per second
of time .of water, -agreed that it would furnish and deliver to the owners of such shares AM of the appropriated
waters to the extent of one-eightieth of a cubic foot per
second of time per acre; and thiat water rights or shares'
should not be sold beyond the carrying capacity of the
canal system or in excess, of the waters appropriated..
.Shares of stock of the Reservoir & Canal Company were
to be isdued in the proportion of one share for each oneeightiet of a cubic foot per second of time. It was'
fprther agreed that the irrigation works should b6c6mpieted within five years from the date of the contMacts;
t which time the obligation to furnish the- full one-

522

OCTOBER TERM," 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

eightieth of a cubic foot per second of time per acre should
be in force and effect.
Uponi application of the State of Idaho and evidence
to the effect that *an ample supply of water was actually
-furnished and in sufficient quantity to reclaim the lands
as contemplated by the Carey Act, the Secretary of the
Interior fixed the -area of the project at 117,677.24 acres
and caused a patent of the Unitd States therefor to be
issued and delivered to the State.
-The injunction was sought upon the ground that the
water, appropriated and available, was wholly insufficient
to irrigate the entire area and was no mord than sufficient
to irrigate 40,939' acres, and that water rights had been
sold for lands largely in excess of this area. A lis pendens
was filed for record in the various counties where the
property was situated, which had the effect of imparting
constructive notice to all of the pendency of the suit.
!Pomp. Stats. 1919, § 6674. The answer of the Irrigation
Company alleges that water right shares had been sold
for more than 87,000 acres; that the supply of water
appropriated and available was sufficient for the lands
represented by these shares ahd over 25,000 acies in addition. The answer avers as a further defense that the
action of the State and of the Secretary of the Interior
and the issuance of the patent thereon, constituted a determination by the State of Idaho and the Secretary of
the Interior that the water supply and the capacity of the
irrigation work's were sufficient and that this was binding
and conclusive in the case.
It was stipulated at the trial that the total outstanding
shares of the Reservoir & Canal Company were 88,835.71.
Of these 12,722.64 shares, originally sold to individuals,
had been purchased by the trustes at foreclosure sale,
out of which 3,143.61 shares were sold to the intervenors
after the commencement of the suit and fhe filing of the
lis pendens.

IDAHO IRRIG. CO. v. GOODING.
518

523

Opinion of the Cour.

The Dltrct Court took evidence in open court under
Equity Rule 46 and delivered an opinion in favor of
appellees, upon which a decree was'entered. It determined from the evidence that the reasonable duty.
of
water was 234 acre feet per acre for the entire area, without deduction for roads or other non-irrigable tracts; and,
without attempting to determine the exact quantity of
available water, found that the-supply was and would
continue to be insufficient to meet the demands of the
outstanding contracts, exclusive of those which the Company had acquired through foreclosure proceedings.
These findings have support in the'evidence and the
conclusion is justified that the available water will fall
'short of supplying as much as 50,000 acres of land. The
allowance of 234 acre feet per acre is much less than the
quantity stipulated in the contract, but the reduction by
'the court was properly made under the Idaho- statfite,
which requires that the timount of water allowed shall
never be in excess of the amount used for beneficial purposes, Comp. Stats., 1919, § 7033; and the statute which
forbids the use by any water right owner of more water
than good husbandry rquires. § 5640. These provisions are to be read into the contracts. State v. Twin
Falls, etc., Co., 30 Idaho, 41, 77. By statute it was made
unlawful for the Irrigation Company to contract to sell
more water than it had. § 5636. State -r.
Twin Falk,
etc., Co., supra, 65; Gerber.v. Nampa, etc., Irrigation
District,16 Idaho, 1, 17.
We cannot accept the contention of appellants thai the
application of the State and the issuance thereon of a
patent to the lands by the Secretary of the Interior constituted a determination binding on the individual water
xight.owners that an ample supply of wate' was available
for the entire 117,677.24 acres. Whatever may be the
effect of this action as between the United States and the
State'of- Idaho, it is perfectly cleat- that it can have no

524

O6TOBBR TERM, 1923.
-

Opinion of the Cdurt.

265"U.S.

effect upon the rights of the individual land and wter
owners. Their rights are' to be .measured by the contracdts; and by these' contracts the Vrigation Conilany
bound itself to ffrnish one-'eightieth of a.cubic foot per
-second of time per-acre. We fully agred with the District
Court -that the individual appellees, not being parties.to.
these proceedings, are not bouiid by them, and in saing:
"They hold-contracts imposing upon them heavy obligaStions, hnd in turn*conferring-upon them valuable rights.
"It-would be shocking to hold that these rights could be
taken away or substantially impaired by a finding of fact
or conclusion of law (we.are not advised which) made by
an administrative officer in an ex parte proceeding in
which they .did not have an opportunity to be heard."
See also Twin Falls Oakley Land & Watei Co. v. Martens,
271 Fed. 428, 433.
As among the individual owners the water rights conveyed by the Irrigation Company ar vested and under
the contracts mugt be shared -proportionately; but the
Irrigation Company is without right to continue to contract to sell and deliver water from a supply that has
already'been exhausted, thereby compelling these owneis
to still further diminish their proportionate rights. As
said by-1he Supreme Court of Idaho in Sanderson v.
Salmon River Canal Co., 34 Idaho, 303, 310: "It is one
thing to prevent any more rights vesting, in order to avoid
a hardship to those whose rights have. already i*ested,
and it is another thing to wipe out rights which have
already vested through the issuance of contracts and the
use of the water." State v. Twin' Fails Land & Water
Co., 37 Idaho, 73, 85; Boley v. Twin Falls Canal Co., 37
Idaho, 318, 331-332; -Caldwell v. ,Twin Falls, etc. Co.,
225 Fed. 584, 592-595.

We thiAk the District Court was also riglit.in including
in the injunction the 12,722.64 shares of stock p.urchased
by the trusfees at foreclosure sale, Thse'shares were

IDAHO IRRIG. CQ. v. GOODING.
518-

525

Opinion of the Court.

the property of the Irrigation Company, and, representing
.an excess of available water supply, should be extinguished and their resale enjoined. They are subject to
the same principle that was applied to ihe issuance and
-

sale of additional original shares in excess of such supply.
The conclusion of the District Court was based upon. the
heory that the ownership and 'control of.these shares
were in the Irrigation Company and this'is supported by
the evidence. Indeed; it was so stipulated between counsel at the trial. See C/hilds v. Netzel, 26 Idaho, 116, 127,

* 129-131.,.
The Court of Appedb, howe- er, held that the decree
of the District Court in this respect was erroneous to the
bxtent of 5,322.26 shares, which Were appurtenant to the
lands owned by the Irrigation Company and its trustees
ivhen the suit was commenced and lis endens filed; but.
we are wiable t.o see that these shares occupy any different
,.status from "he others. The stipblation of ownership
and control included ill. If the injunction was bad as to
the 5,022.26 shares, it was bdd as to alL. The Irrigation
Company, having. oversold.the available wMer supply,

exclusive of the shares puicl'ased at fore~losure sale, can-'
not be permittea to sell additioial, shares, whether still
unissued, or issued and sold but re-acquired, and whether
acquired before the suit and li. pendens or afterwarda
It may be conceded that the water rights represented by
these shares were appurtenant to the lands for. the irigation of which they had been acquired, Comp. Stats. Idaho,
§ 3018; but they were not, -under the. Carey Act and the
laws of Idaho, inseparably appurtenant to the lands, but"
constituted distinct and separable property rights. -Ben; -"
nett v. Twin Falls,etc. Co., 27 Idaho, 643, 653. .To permit the use and enjoyment of these *ater rights by -theIrrigation Company, with the consequent further reduc /
tion of individual rights purchased'-from the Company,"
would be to ignore the distinction between the wrongdoer

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U.S.

and the innocentj and is not t6 be suffered"by a court,6f
equity.
In so far as the decree of the Court of Appeals agrees
with that' of the District Court it is affirmed; but in
respect of the matter last discussed it is reversed and the
decree of the District Court affirmed in'all particulars.

No. "824,Affirmed.
No. 836, Reversed.

WILLIAM R. WARNER & COMPANY v. ELI LILLY
& COMPANY.
* CERTIORARI TO TH'

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THMID CIRCUIT..

-CIRCUIT

No. 32. Argued April 28, 29, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924:
1. Names which are inerely descriptive of the ingredients, qualities,
or characteristics of an article of trade,-such as the namep "Coco-

Quinine" and "Quin-Coco,"

-

app~lied to a liquid preparation 9f

quinine in combination" with chocolate and other- things--cannot
be appropriated as trademarks. P. 528.
2. The use of a name similar to. that 'lready employed by another,
iruthfully to -describe one's own product, is not a legal or moral
wrong, even if its effect be to cause the public to mistake the
origin or ownership of that product. Id.
3: A firstj.ade and marketed a liquid preparation containing quinine
and other drugs compounded with chocolate to give it color and
flavor and to aid in suspending the quinine.. -B then, using choco'late, produced an article of the same taste and appearance, but sold
cheaper; and to reap A's trade suggested to retail druggists the
fiasibility and economy of passing off the one for the other, when
dispensed out of the bottle; which was done in many and divers
instances.
HeZd: (a) That B wAs guilty of unfair cbfpetition. P. 528.
(b) He who induces another to commit a frhud and furnishes the

means, is equally guilty. P. 530.
(c)When several acts of unfair competition are shown, there is
warrant -for concluding that they will continue, and equity will
afford adequate relief by injunction. P. 531.

