NASSAU WORKS v. BRIGHTWOOD CO.

269

Opinion of the Court.

NASSAU SMELTING & REFINING WORKS, LTD.
v. BRIGHTWO0D BRONZE FOUNDRY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 242. Argued April 28, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
A creditor whose claim was included in the schedules is entitled to
share in a cnmposition offered by a bankrupt and duly accepted by
the required majority, although his claim was not proved within
a year after adjudication. P. 270.
286 Fed. 72, reversed.

to an order, of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed an order of the District Court limiting the
deposit to be made in satisfaction of a composition in
bankruptcy to the amount required for claims proven
within the year following adjudication.
CERioRA I

Mr. Joseph B. Jacobs for petitioner.
Mr, Harry M. Ehrlich, with "vhom-M-. Henry Lasker
was on the brief, for respondent.
MiR. JUsTiCE BrA=Bis delivered the opinion of the

.Court.
On November 19, 1920, the Brightwood Foundry Company was adjudged a bankript by the District Court of
Massachusetts. On February 12, 1921, it made an offer
of composition to its creditors. -On February'25, 1921,
the meeting to consider the oier was held. The list of

'A voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditors had been made
September 10, 1920. The creditors elected a trustee in bankruptcy
at a special meeting held March 17, 1922, but he did not qualify.
The assignee under the voluntary assignment remained in possession

of the assets formerly belonging to the bankrupt.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

creditors provided for in § 7(8) of the Bankruptcy Act
(July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, 548), had been filed
by the bankrupt on February 1b, 1921. Among those
scheduled, was the Nassau Smelting & Refining Works,
with a claim of $11,354.40. It had due notice of all proceedings; but failed to present its claim for proof until
more than a year after the adjudication. No order was
made either allowing or disallowing it. On March 27,
1922-more than a year after the meeting to consider the
offer in composition-the. bankrupt filed a petition in
which it alleged that the offer had been accepted by the
requisite majority of creditors, and that many who had
been duly scheduled failed to proye their claims within
the year after adjudication as provided by § 57n. It
prayed for an order that only such sum' be deposited as
would be required to pay, in composition, claims seasonably proved. After .due hearing, the prayer of the bankrupt was granted. Objection had been made by the
Nassau Works; and it filed, a petition to revise under
§ 24b. The order was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, Circuit Judge-Anderson dissenting, 286 Fed. 72;
and a petition for a writ of certiorari was granted. 261
U. S. 612. The question for decision is whether the
deposit must include the amount required to pay creditors
who were named in the schtdule but failed t'o prove their
clainswithin one year after .the adjudication. In other
words, are such creditors entitled to the benefit of the
composition?
The Bankruptcy Act provides, in 57n, that " Claims
shall not be proved against a bankrupt estate subsequent
t.o one year after.the adjudication;" in § 12a, that "a
bankrupt may offer, either before or after adjudication,
terms of composition to his creditors after, . . . he
has . . . filed in court . .
the list of his creditors required to be filed by bankrupts;" and that "action
upon the petition for adjudication shall be delayed until

NASSAU WORKS v. BRIGHTWOOD CO.
269 '

271

Opinion of the Court.

it shall be determined whkther such composition shall.be
confirmed"; in § 12b, that the application for the confirmation of a composition may not be filed.in the court
until "it has been.accepted in writing by 9-najority in
number of all creditors whose claims have been allowed,
which number must represent a majority in amount of
such claims, and the consideration -to be pad by the
bankrupt to his creditors . .
have been deposited in
such place as shall be designated by and subject to the
order of the judge;" and in § 12e, that "upon the confirmation of a composition, -the consideration shall be
distributed as the judge shall direct, and the case dismissed." 2
Composition is a settlement by the bankrupt with his
creditors: In a measure, the composition supersedes, and
is outside of, the bankruptcy proceedings.
fnberand

Glass Co. v. DeWitt, 237 U. S.447, 454. It originates in
a voluntary offer by the bankrupt; and results, in the
main, from voluntary acceptance by his creditors. It
cannot be confirmed unless there has been such acceptgnce by the requisite majority. When confirmed the
bankrupt is digeharged from all debts " other than those
agreed to be paid by the terms of*the composition and
those not affected by a discharge." § 14c. Thus, the
composition binds creditors with scheduled claims,
although they do not prove. It may be effected before
the adjudication.3 Where the assets have passed to the
trustee pursuant to the adju~dication, they are revested
in the bankrupt.
2The official form [No. 61] of "Application for Confirmation of
Composition"

Court . .

recites that aftet the bankrupt "had

filed in

a list of his creditors, as required by law, he offered
terms of composition to his creditors . .
;" and " that the consideration to be paid by the bankrupt to his creditors
..
has
been deposited, etc."
'See Act of June 25, 1910, c. 412, § 5, 36 Stat. 838, 839.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

There is no provision in the act which declares, in terms,
that the offer extends only to those who prove their claims.
Why should proof, within the year, of fhe existence of the
debt be required where, by including the claim in the
schedule, it has been admitted by the bankrupt? Obviously, § 57n does not operate to exclude any creditor
from the benefits of the composition, where the offer is
made before there is an adjudication.4 Section 57n would,
also, have no application in a great majority of composition cases in which there bas been an adjudication. For
the offer is ordinarily made in order to enable the debtor
to resume his business. In the normal case, the bankrupt
is impelled by vital interests, not only to make the offer
promptly, but to expedite confirmation. Interruption
incident to delay necessarily impairs the Value of a business as a going concern. Thus, the composition is usually
carried through within the year. Creditors who have
failed to prove their claims before confirmation (from inadvertence or becaus&of their-doubt whether it was worth
the trouble and expense) are usually spurred to activity
by notice that money on deposit awaits their application.
The cases are rare in which a scheduled creditor w.ho has
had due notfce fails to call, within the year, for the money
awaiting him.
Where the distribution is cf the bankrupt estate, each
creditor has an interest in the claim which any other
creditor may assert. He is interested in limiting the
amount of claims to be allowed, because the greater the
aggregate, the smaller (except where- there is a surplus)
will be- his dividend. Each creditor is interested, also, in
limiting the time within which others may prove, because
distribution cannot be made until the close of that period.
But where there is a composition, neither the amount
"Judge Anderson stateg (p. 75): "In. recent years more than twothirds of the composition cases in this district have been without
adjudication."

NASSAU WORKS v. BRIGHTWOOD CO.
269

273

Opinion of the Court.

which a creditor receives, nor the time when he receives
it, can be affected by the amount of others' claims, or by
the time of proof, or by their failure to prove.' The rights
of each creditor are fixed by the terms of the debtor's offer,
subject only to its confirmation and tL- judge's order of
distribution. Nor can the time of proof of claims, as distinguished from their allowance, be of legitimate interest
to the bankrupt

Ms rights, also, are fixed by the offer,

unless where the legality or the amount of a claim is questioned. No reason is suggested why Congress should have
wished to bar creditors from participation in the benefits
of a composition merely because their claims were not
proved within a year of the adjudication. Failure to prove
within the year does not harm the bankrupt. Why should
he gain thereby? And why should the creditor be penalized by a total loss of his claim?
The language of the act tends to support the contention
that proof within the year is not essential to participation

in the benefits of the composition. Section 57n declares
that " claims shall not be proved against a bankrupt estate
subsequent to one year after the adjudication." There is
no "bankrupt estate" where there is fio adjudication.
And even where there is an adjudication, the proof made
5 Prior

to confirmation, he may have this remote interest in the
allowance, as distinguished from the proof, of the claims of others.
If he favors confirmation, he will be interested in having allowed
the claims of other friendly creditors whose acceptance is needed to
make up the requisite majority. If he opposes confirmation, he will

be interested in having claims of friendly creditors disallowed and of
having those of hostile creditors allowed. He may also be interested
in enquiring whether a claim scheduled is fraudulent. This is equally
true of cases where there has been and where there has not been
an adjudication.
'Ie may conceivably be interested in having a claim allowed or
disallowed because of its effect upon the acceptahce of his offer by
the requisite majority of creditors. Here, also, this remoter interest

is the same whether there has been an adjudication or has not.

OCTOBER TERM, 192,

274

Syllabus.

265 U. S.

is not against the "bankrupt estate," if a composition follows. The claim is against funds deposited by the debtor
pursuant to abargain with his creditors. Allowance of a
claim is necessary to q(ualify one as a voter on the question of acceptance. Hence, provision for such allowance
had to be made. § 12a. But after the composition has
been confirmed, allowance of a claim is not necessary for
the purpose of establishing it as against the debtor, who
is then alone interested, if he has already admitted the
liability by including it in his schedule. Compare Haley
v. Pope, 206 Fed. 266. Here the offer was made within
three months of the adjudication. It confessedly extended to all scheduled creditors who should prove within
the year. X6 reason is shown why it should be limited to
these. In re Atlantic Construction Co.,; 228 Fed. 571;
Matter of Fox, 6 Amer. Bank. Rep. 525.
Where the offer of composition is not made until after
the expiration of the year the questioh may be different.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. ABILENE & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ETAL.
APPEAL FROM TIE DISTRICT COURT OF TIlE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 456.

Argued March 4, 1924.-Deided May 26, 1924.

1. An order made by a division of the Interstate Commerce Commission being operative, unless stayed by. the division or the full
Commission pending a rehearing by the latter, (amended Act to
Regulate Commerce, §§ 16a, 17 [4],) a suit to enjoin enforcement

of such an order is within the jurisdiction of the District Court,
and whether relief should be denied until the plaintiff, through
application for rehearing, shall have exhausted the administrative
remedy, is a matter of judicial discretion. P. 280.
2. In a proceeding under § 15 (6) of the amended Interstate Commerce Act in which the Commission readj1sted the divisions of
joint rates as between a carrier and its several immediate con-

