ATCHISON RY. CO. v. WELLS.
99 .

Syllabus.

and punitive damages, and was affirmed as to the former
by the Supreme Court of Arkansas. This was error.
An interstate carrier is entitled to the presumption that
its business is being conducted lawfully. Acceptance and
use of the ticket sufficed to establish an agreement, prima
fade valid, which limited the selling carrier's liability.
Mere failure of the passenger to read matter plainly placed
--before her cannot overcome the presumption of assent.
New York CentrqZ & Hudson RBiver R. R. o. v. Beaham,
242 U. S. 148, 151; Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio
Ry. Co. v. Woodbury, 254 U. S. 357, 360.
Revised.
ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RALWAY
COMPANY v. WELLS ET AL..
CERTIORARI TO TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF A PrALS FOR THE
FIFT" CIRCUIT.

No. 232. Argued April 23, 1924.-Decided May !2, 1924.
-1: The rolling stock of a railroad, and traffic balances owing it,
•are not exempt from attachment or garnishment merely.because
the former are used, and the latter derived, in 'interstate commerce. '. 103.
2. A state.statute permitting a citizen and r~sident of another State
to prosecute a cause of action which arose elsewhere, against a
railroad corporation -of another State, which is engaged in interstate commerce and neither owns nor operates a railroad, nor has
consented to be sued, in the State where the action is brought, is
so far, invalid. Davis v. Farmers Co-operative Co., 262 U. S. 312.
Id.
3. Judgments obtained by - garnishment and constructive service,
* against a fordign railroad corporation and a local railroad corporation, as garnishee, on such a cause of action, held void as an
unreasonable interference with interstate commerce, and their
enforcement subject to be enjoined in a suit by the foreign
corporation in a federal court against the judgment creditor and
his attorney. Id.
285 Fed. 369, reversed.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
0pinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

CmR oRI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a-,decree of the District Court, which dismissed a
bill to enjbin the enforcement of judgments.
Mr. A. H. UuZwell, with whom Mr. 1. W. Terry and
Mr. GardinerLathrop were on the brief, for jbetitioner.
Mr. George R. Wallace, for respondents, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE B1 .- wis delivered the bpinion of the
Court.
Wells, a citizen and resident of Colorado employed by
the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company, was
injured while performing his auties in New Mexico.. He
sued the company in a state court of Teias, but could not.
make personal service upon it within that State.' Wells
procured from the same court a writ of -garnishment to a
Texas railroad company whose line connected with the
Santa Fe; which had in its possession Santa Fe'rolling
stock; and which owed to it large sums on traffic balances.
Thereafter, constructive service was made uponthe Santa
Fe, by serving one of its officers in Kansas and by publication in a Texas newspaper. The Santa Fe did not appear.
in the action; and judgment in the sum of $4,000 and costs
was entered against it by -default. Objection by the
garnishee to the jurisdiction° having been oveifuled, a
judgment was entered that Wells recover from it this sum
with interest and costs, in satisfaction of his judgment
against the Santa Fe. To enjoin the enforcement of
these judgments, suit was 'brought - by the Santa Fe
in the federal court for western Texas against Wells.
who had meanwhile become a resident of that State,
and his counsel. The case iwas heard on agreed facts;
and a decree dismissing the bill was affirmed by the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Cir'See Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Weeks, 254 Fed. 513.

ATCHISON RY. CO. v. WELLS.
101

Opinion of the Court.

cuit. 285 Fed. 369. It is here on writ of certiorari under
§ 240 of the Judicial Code. 261 U. S. 612.
The rolling stock held by the garnishee was then being
used in interstate commerce and the amount due on. traffic balances arose out of transactions in uch commerce.
These fa6ts did not render the property immune from
seizure by attachment or garnishment. Davis v. Cleveland, Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis By. Co., 217 U. S.
157. But the writ of garnishment is void because -of the
purpose for which it was invoked. 'The Santa Fe is a
Kansas corporation. -It had not been admitted to Texas
as a foreign corporation. It had not consented to be
sued there. It did not own or op.erate any line of railroad within tbe State; and had no agent there. Th6
Texas statutes concerning garnishment were construed
and.applied in the Wells suit so as to permit a citizen and
resident of another State to prosecute in Texas a cause
of action which arose elsewhere against a railroad corporation of another State, which is engaged in interstate commerce, which neither owns nor operates a railroad in
Texas, and which has not consented to be sued there. For
the reasons stated in Davis v. Farmers Co-operative Co.,
262 U. S. 312 (decided since the entry of the jud ment
here under review) such a suit necessarily and unreasonably burdens interstate commerce; and the statute as construed and applied is invalid.
Relief against the void judgments entered was properly
sought by the Santa Fe in the federal court. Simon v.
outherm Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115; Wells Fargo & Co. v.
Taylor, 254 U. S. 175'-.- See Essanay.Film.Co.v. Kane,
258 U. S. 358, 360. The garnishment was'void because
seizure of the rolling stock and credits for the purpose of
compelling the Santa Fe to submit to the jurisdiction of
the court in the Wells suit interfered unreasonably with
interstate commerce. The Santa Fe was not obliged t;
assert its. rights in The courts 6f Texas. C .-npare Fire,

104-

OCTOBER TERM, f923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

stone Tire & Rubber Co. v. Marlboro Cotton Mills, 282
Fed. 811,8i4. Nor could its right not to be sued'there be
affected by anything which the garnishee did or onlitted
to do. Moreover, the garnishee's objection to the jursdiction (on grounds later upheld by this Court in the
Farmers Co-operative.Co. Case) had been overruled by
the state court. W&have no occasion, therefore, to consider further the scope or the provisions of the statutes
concerning garnishmeit."
Reversed.
TRANSPORTES MARITIMOS DO ESTADO v. AL:"
MEIDA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
T3E SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 265. Submitted April 30, 1924.-Decided May 12, 1924.

1. The defente of sovereign immunity by a defendant in the District
Court does not present a question" of federal jurisdiction reviewable here on direct appeal. Oliver American Trading Co. v.
United States of Mexico, 264 U. S.440. P. 105.
2. This is equally true whether th6 claim of immunity be contested
because of the character of the defendant or because the immunity
is alleged to have been waived. Id.

Writ of error dismissed and cause transferred.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court for the
plaintiff, Almeida., in his action for wages as a seaman.

Mr. F. Dudley Kohler for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Silas B. Axtell for defendant in error.
MR. JusTcI

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Alneida, a seaman, brought this action for 'wages
against Transportes Maritmo§ do Estado on the common
law side of the federal court for southern New York. The

