THOMSON CO. v. FORD MOTOR CO.
438

445

Statement of the Case.

on the label, they aid the misrepresentation made by the
words "apple cider vinegar ".
The misrepresentation was in respect of the vinegar
itself, and did not relate to the method of production
merely.* When considered independently of the product,
the method of manufacture is not material. The act
requires no disclosure concerning it. And it makes no
difference whether vinegar.made from dried apples is or
is not 'inferior to apple cider vinegar.
*Thelabel was misleading as fo the vinegar, its substance
and ingredients. The facts admitted sustain the tharge
of misbranding.
Judgment reversed.
THOMSON SPOT WELDER COMPANY v. FORD
.
MOTOR COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO TE

CIRCUIT COURT OF
SIXV'

PEALS FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

No. 120. Argued December 5, 1923.-Decided June 2, 1924.
1. The question whether an improvement in the arts involved
invention or only mechanical skill, is a question of fact. P. 446.
2. Thbj rule in this Court to follow concurrent findings of fact made

by the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals unies
clear error is shown, should not be strictly applied in a case
brought here by certiorari to settle a conflict between decisions of
two circuit courts of appeals concerning the validity of a patent
for an invention. Id.

3. Patent No. 1,046,066 issued December 3, 1912, to Thomson Electric
Welding Company, assignee of Harmatta, for improvements .in

electric welding,- viz., for the process known as "spot welding",
whereby sheets or plates of metal are welded together in spots, in
lieu of riveting;--is void for want of patentable invention. P. 448..
281 Fed. 680, affirmed.
CmTIOm tb a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which held void
a patent and dismissed a bill for infringement.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opliofi of the Court

265U--

* Mr. Frderick P. -Fih,with whom Mr. 1. L. Stackpk
aid Mr. H. F. -Eymanwere on the brief, for.petitioher.
Mr. Mel ll Ch,urch for respo ndent.
MR-n

Juswirc'SAi*i'os

.delivered the opinion of the

'Court.
'Thfs ii.a suit in equity bi6ight by the Thomson Sp6t
Welder Company in a Federal District Court in Michigin
for the infringement 6f United Stites patent No. 1;046,066
"foriinprov¥ments in eleciric welding, issued December.3,
1912, -to the -plaintif's predecessoi' in title, as assignee,
upon an applicatioA filed by.Johann-Hdrmatta, December.
3, 1903. :The :chief defenses ivere. anticipatipn,, la& of
inventio-.l rio. public'use, and 0stoppel. The District
'Court sustained all of .tiuse'defenis, "-ana ismisied 'the.
bill. .:268 F._ecL36,. Te-V.
icuit Court-ofAppeals-onei
judgie disseiiting-ae-ld'.the patent.invalid for lack of
invention, -and, without coniderjng .theother defenges,.

affirmed the decree:ofA'6.Distrfct Cdtk,. .281Fed. 680.
On accpunt-6f a confiict with a priorddcision.of the-Cireuit,
Coift,of"App.al. f~r'the First Circuit,. in -Thorzson Elec.'
.. g.Co. :y. Bwaney.i Berry,. 227 Fed. 428>.in

which the patent "iad been heldif o be yalid this writ of
certiorari w
tas'
ved., 260 U. S. 718.
In the-pres6nt:"&ia both'the District, Court and the

Circuit Co ,rf

4ppe~ls have held that..Hfnnatta's 1m,-:

provetment-invlired fierely'the' exercise 6f mechanical
skill bnd -pot invention." 'The question whether, an iraprovement requires mere -* chanical sMill or'the exercise.
bf-the facilty of.invention, is one of fact; and in an action
at liw for infring6ment is to be left to the determination
ip &thejurr.. Kiye8-...- rant,'118U..S. 25, 36, 37; Holmes
"w'; Trman. (C. C. A.), 67 Fed. 542, 543; Hall v. "Wilef.

(0i C.), 2 Blatchf. I94,. Ii Fed..Cas. 280, 283; Pospen-

THOMSON CO.' v...FORD MOTOR QO.
445

447

Opinion of the Cofirt.

husen v. Falke (C.'C.), 5;:Blatchf. 46,19 Fed. Cas. 1052,.
1054; Shuter v..Davis (C. C.), 16 Fed. 564,,566; Bleaning"

v; Copper Works (C. C.),,34 Fed. 753, 754. Ordinarily, :
therefore, the case would call for the application of the
well settled rule that the"concurrent findings of the lowr
courts on questions of fact will be accepted.by this Court**
unless clear error -is shown. Wright-Blodgett Co. v.
UnitMe States, 236 U. S. 397, 402; U.nited States v. State
Investment Co., 264 U. S. 206, and.cases there cited. Wethink, -however, that this rule should not be strictly applied in cases brought here because of a conflict of decision
in the different circuit courts of.appeal, and have therefore
given consideration tor the question as to which of the
decisions upon his question of 'fact, in the'light of the
prior art, is based upon the sounder reasoning. At 'the'
outset it is to be noted that in the First Circuit there was
not a concurrent finding oni the question of patentability;
the District Court having found, as did the two courti in
the present case, that the patent was invalid for want of
,invention. 227 Fed. 428, 433.
Welding is the art, practised immemorially, of initing"
tvo pieces of metal in one piee by heating those'portirns
which are to be welded to a tenipefature at which they
become plastic and then pressing them strongly together
so as to effect a.'union; as exemplified by a blacksmithwhen heating in a forge the two pieces to be welded and
hammering.
together.
The art ofthem
electric weldifig, which was invented in 1886,was well advanced when Harmatta filea his apllication,
.-having been disclosed in various prior patents for uniting
the abutting ends of metal bars, wires, etc., uniting "the
over-lapped edges of metal'sheets, plates, etc., and other.
purposes.
"'The opinion of the District Couri is published wfth that of the

Circuit Court of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

448.

Opinion of the -Court.

265 U. S.

The patent in suit relates to that branch of electric
weldipng known as spot welding, by which two sheets or
plates are welded together face to face, in spots, as a substitute for riveting; .this being. accomplished by placing
the two sheets between two pointed electrodes applied to
their exterior surfaces, opposite to one'another, which.
heat th6 sheets to the welding temperature and exert the
required pressure in the line between the points of the*
electrodes, resulting in welding together the inside faces
of the sheets in the spot on that line.
The reasons for which the petitioner claims that this'
improveihent is- pateitable are thus sunimarized in its
brief: " Harmatta produced a new result, namely a small
round weld (a spot weld) uniting two plane sheets" of
metal at any place in their meeting faces. This was radically new

.

.

. 2. To rfiake this spot weld Harmatta

manipulated the articles with which he dealt, namely the
sheets, in- a new way by indiscriminately superimposing
*one upon the. other and he made his electrodes perform
a fun~tiQn, which no electrodes, used in electric welding,
had ever before performed. 3. In so doing he carried
out a new technical process, that is, the electric current,
which generates the welding heat, behaved and operated
in.an entirely new way, . . . and he applied the'

welding pressure to a condition, .which seemed to make
such application imp6osible."
The opinions of the two District Courts and of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit holding
that the patent in suit was lacking in invention, are based,:
in veach instancey on a detailed and analytical considera.
tion of ,the prior art. We take the following extracts
,from the-Well considered opinion of the Circuit Court of
'Appeals: .
-The art of electric resistance welding was old and far
4 .anced in 1903, when.the Harmatta patent was applied
for. Prof. Elihu Thonm6n .
.
was a pioneer in

THOMSON CO. v. FORD MOTOR CO.
445

449

Opinion of the Court.

thit art. In 1886 he obtained process and apparatus
patents . . . for so-called butt welding, which invo.lved the uniting of the abutting ends of metal wires,
bars, etc., by Applying heat at the joint and the adjacent.
surfaces by means of electrodes, and pressing the :two,
pieces together when heated to welding temperature.

There was here true resistance welding, with pressure of
the parts involved, although the electrode did not exert
-the welding pressure. In 1889 Thomson obtained a
patent
.
for electric riveting, which-involved the
heating of the rivet when in place by means of a current
passed through it by the use of electrodes, under pressure
thereon, the effect being not only to swage the rivet and
weld it to the adjoining metal, but apparently (when
desired) to weld togethet, in part at least,, the portions
of the plates immediately adjoining the rivet. In 1891
Thomson obtained a patent . . . for what is called
lap-welding. While the specification states that the invention is specially adapted to the welding of the overlapped edges of plates, it . . . expressly includes
'welding together strips, sheets, plates, or bars of metal
where it is desirable to form a joint of considerable length.'
According to the specification, 'the surfaces to be welded
are pressed together to form a union,' the work being fed
in the longitudinal directibn of the joint 'through suitable
pressure devices (preferably roller electrodes), the work
being properly arranged, so that the pressurd devices will
press the surfaces to be welded together and simultaneously pdssing the electric current through the work at the
point of pressure. The electrodes were employed to
exert the welding pressure. The specification further
states that 'as the work is passed through such rolls with
a continuous motion each point, as it comes between the
rolls, is heated-and the surfaces pressed together.'
.
.
In 1893 Thomson obtained a patent . . . relating
particularly to soldering sheet metal pieces flatwise, either

OCTOBER TERM 1923.

450

265 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the use of solder or. (when applied to tin plates) by
melting the tin sufficiertly to establish uion thereby.
The electrodes, in the formi of clamps or otheriwise, served
not only to supply the nqessary heat, but to. exert sufficient pressure upon the overlapped sheets to effect their
union. A roller ele6trode is disclosed, performing the
double function of heating a d pressing, and having its
periphery corrugated or grooved. . . . This 'was, to
say the-least, electric rdsistance spot soldering. In 1897
Robinson received a patent . . . on so-called projec-tion welding, as specjally"applied t6 the welding of a splice
bar to the web of a railroad rail, the splice bar having
upon its inner face number of projections which.by. the
application of the heating current are fused, and by pressure made to form welds between the projections on the
bar and the fused'opposing portions of the.rail. Kleinschmidt, in 1898, tookoui a patent' . . . for a sinilar
process, and by methods not essentially unlike those of
Robinson.
"Whether or not the Thomson so-called lap-welding
myenfion should be regarded as an absolute. anticipation
of the Harmtta paterit, we think the state of the a#. to
which we have -referred left no room for invention- in
Harmatta.

.

.

. We see no distinction upon principle

between plane-face welding and lap-welding; the former
certainly embraces the latter. If Thomson's roller electrode device was capable of welding a line or seam in a:
metal lap joint, it was-readily adaptable to 'line-welding
together

coterminous

plane-face

plates.

.

.

. We

think Thomson's lap-welding invention was in essence"a
weldin in points. In fact" his line seam was nerely a
succession of adjoining points...

.

It satisfactorily

appears that, although Thomson's roller electrodes in the
form shown in the patent we're not practicably adapted
.1 commercial spot-welding as disclosed by the Harmatta
patent, they could readily be made -to do such spot-

dMSoN -co. v.XU1D- MOTOR CO.
445

.451

Opinion of tie.Court.

welding'by the use of suitable.projections -iqpon the face
of the rolls (Thomson later did.spot-soldering by the use*
of such projections);- and assu ing'-that pin dleotrodes,
were dssen.tial to successfulcommercial spot-welding, that
form of electrodes iyv4s.ok, as illustrated by Thomson's
*electric doering pateyit.....-. -inour opinion the t
of-soldering is analogous to thai of welding...... By

the-ise of enough more heat Thomson's soldering-device
No'
could readily have- effected spot-wedig; .*.
points
.essential difference i principle between hest at l
* and heating in -spots isapparent. - Projefio" welding
sense, 'of. the
partakes, though hot in so pronounced a&'
We agree with Judge
nature of spot-welding....
Dodge. (227 Fed. 42.8] that H~gmatta's idea of cmaidng
his electric welds small in area rather than large in comparison with the reas of the. opposed surface to ba.joined
and isolaftin them, so as to leave each surrounded by.aio
c6mpawratively'large ar~a of unwelded -surface,' does not
involve invention in .view of -the-. prior art. -Inother
words, giveni the desire for-a welding in Spots,.naturally
enough suggeited by the prior art and-by its commercial
development, we think Harmattfs specific application.of
the.princples of thi.t prior art -involved only the sWUil of
the expert mechanic. Not only every.principle, but every.
the Harmatta,
electric and'mechanical proceMs, involved "in
clams, was well known in the prior.or directly analbgous
arts, or in mechanical arts.generally. We cannot think, .
in view of the. pIor art, that invention is to be f6unii in:
the considerationg, -separately or collectively, that"in
Harmatta no bodily movement of the~sheets is required;
- that the current'is localized and pressure'exerted"oIely by
the electrodes, or by the ditference in the -form of the
electrodes, or by the' difference in'amount of extruded
metal, as compared with- some of the earlier applications
of resistncerwelding. ' Although inve4tion ik'not neces-"
sarily negatived .by the fact that each eleme'nt 4 the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

combination is old, the question of fact whether the
combination itself involves invention in view of the prior
art is always present.
"Our conclusion of noninvention, based upon a review
of the prior art, is materially strengthened by the serious..
doubt whether Harmatta thought, when he filed his
patent application, that he had patentably invented anything by the disclosure of spot-welding, as a process or
product distinct. from point-welding or line-welding, as
well as by the fact that others previous to the grant to
Harmatta, and apparently in ignorance of Harmatta's
claimed invention, successfully practiced the art of spotwelding.
"The patent issued nine years after the application
was filed, and after numherous' vicissitudes and amendments (including the entire elimination of the rollerelectrode featuie), and after the application had. been
placed in interference with the claims of Adolph Rietze,
to whom a patent had previously been issued on July 20,
1909. . . . From the beginning Rietzel's application
was owned by plaintif's predecessor. The interference
was declared in favor of Harmatta, for Rietzel's failure,
as te junior party to the interference, to take testimony
in support of his claim of priority; plaintiff's predecessor
at the time owning both the Harmatta application and the
Rieizel patent. 2
. . But the fact that the award of
priority was not based upon an adjudication on the merits
tends to weaken. its force. It,. however, convincingly"
appears . . . that in 1898 (and, about five years
.before Harmatta's applicatiQn) Rietz~l, while in the
employ of plaintiff's predecessor, in several instances successfully joined two pieces of lapped metal at isolated
spots by means of a Thomson butt-welding machine; the
'The proceedings in the Patent OMe are set'forth at'length in the
opinion of the Diftrict Court (pp. 855 at siq.)..

THOMSON CO. v. FORD MOTOR CO. ' 453
445

Opinion of the Court.

sheets of metal being united by pressing them together
and at the same time passing the heating current from one
electrode (or so-called contact) to the opposite, electrode,
at the selected spot on the meeting surface of the plates,
the spots being restricted in area, so as to leave welldefined and comparatively extensive areas of no-union
completely" surrounding the spots--one of the "electrodes
or contacts used being of standard size and form, the other
being reduced by cutting down to a diameter of about
three-eighths of an inch. . . . Rietzel's experience
strongly discredits inventive quality in what Harmatta
did several years later, including his disclosure of the use
of pin-electrodes. The fact also appears . . . that
at various times, ranging from two years to -five or six
years, before the issue of the Harmatta patent, and
apparently in ignorance of his asserted invention, various
manufacturers put out or used spot-welding machines
with commercial success. . .
These experiences also
tend to discredit invention in Harmatta. It follows, in
our opinion, from what has been said, that the .effect of
the great commercial success of the Harmatta invention
in the hands of plaintiff is entitled to little weight upon
the question of the. invention, even were that question
otherwise in doubt, which we think it -is not." (pp. 682

et seq.).
'The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fist Circuit, on the other hand, contains only general
allusions to the prior art and no analysis of the prior
patents. While, in considering the defense of anticipation, it is said that the soldering art was remote, the only
statement in the opinion bearing directly upon the defense of want of invention, is that "in view of the further
proposition that the presumptions in favor of the patent'
are so far supported in this case by the insistency of the
defense, and. the comparatively enormous expense involved in maintaining it, yre cannot question the present

~454

OCTOER

ER ,-1923.

Statinent of the Case:

265 U. S.-

validity of the patent with reference to all propositions
involved in th~e word .patentabilitk "'. -(p. 48.1 "
The conclusion of fact reached by.the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth. Circuit, as set forth in its.opinion, "
*that in the light of the -rio# art Harnatta's improvement
was lalking in inrention, commends itself to. our judgment. It involves no eri'or in law. Therefore, without
consideiing the other defenses presented, the "decree of
thaf court is

Affirmed.
CUBAN ALLIED WORKS
ENGINEERING CORPOR ATION v. LLOYDS, A
,CORPORATION, AS TREASURER OF LLOYDS
UNDERWRITERS SYNDICATE NO. 601, ET-AL.

J-ITED' STATEgSu&

OiN TRANSFER FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF,APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No.

94o. Motion to dismisi or remand submitted May 26, 1924.Decided June 9, i924.

A case. cannot' b transferred to this Court from the Circuit Court
of Appeals, under the Transfer Act of Septembei 14, 1922, if the
writ of error froin that court Wras sued out after the expiration of
"the period allowed by the Act-of September 6,1916, for applying.

to this Court for process to review the judgment of the District
Court. McM , Co.'v. Abemrnathy, 263,U. S.438. P. 456.
Case remanded to Circuit Court of Appeals.
-

A juDGENr of the District Court, quashingthe service
of summons. in an action on. a marine insurance policy,
was taken bywrit of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which, believing.itself without jurisdiction, ordered the
case transferred to -his Court..
Mr. HerbertBawy and Mr. Archibald O . Thacher, for

defendants in error, in-support of the motion to dismiss
*or remand:

