ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. v. U. S.
206

Argument for Appellant.

merged in No. 790 and reverse the District Court in the

latter appeal and remand the case for further proceedings
when, upon answer and the merits, the effect of the ordinance referred to and other questions raised in the
affidavit can be fully considered.
Reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TEE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 248. Argued April 28, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
For the purpose of securing the reduced rates for transportation of
its property over land-grant railroads, the Government purchased
goods for prices f. o. b. at place of shipment, paid the freight, and
had shipment made by the sellers with government bills of lading.

Held, that title passed at place of shipment, although the contracts
of sale reserved to the Government the right of inspection and
rejection at the place of destination and imposed certain duties
there upon the sellers, and that goods so transpbrted, and accepted

by th6 Government, were entitled to the reduced rates of transportation. P. 213.
57 Ct. Clms. 277, affirmed.
APPFaL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting claims for additional compensation for transportation
of freight.

Mr. Benjamin Carterfor appellant.
The question is whether freights intended for government uses, but which the Government was under no
obligation to accept -until after they had reached destination, were, while in transit, "property of the United
States" and lawful subjects of transpoitation rates at
which, in virtue of land grants, "property of the United

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellant.

265 U.S.

States" should be transported. This aud two other
cases of other carriers which are before, this Court arose
out of the contumacy of dibursing officers in claiming
for the Government a privilege which had been denied
to it by repeated decisions of the Comptroller of the
Treasury. That officer had first, ruled in favor of the
carriers in cases where commercial bills of lading had
been used. The first device, then, of officers making shipments, was to require the use of government bills of
lading; but the Comptroller held that the rights of the
parties were not affected by this detail. Some overzealous officers then had recourse to a form of purchase
from producers of the materials by which purchase prices
applied at the points of shipment. The shipments were
on government bills of lading; but specific stipulations
were (1) that, although the Government would pay, or
advance, the freight charges, the shipper would be responsible for the shipment, including demurrage charges
which might be incurred, and (2) that examination, in one
form or another, would be made by the Government's
officers after delivery at, or beyond, points of destination,
that i.othing would be accepted which did not successfully
pass this test and that shippers would rerihove rejected
materials and repay the transportation charges on those
quantities.
Assuming, from the fact that government bills of lading
were u~ed and the fact, .in some instances, that the shipper, as well as the consignee, was a government officer,
appellant, upon delivering the.freights, rendered and collected its bills at land-grant rates. Thereafter, it received
intimations regarding the terms of the contract under*
which the shipments were made and, upon investigation,
asc6rtained the facts here stated.
Land-grant rates are not lawfully applicable to any
transportation, even though procured' by officers of
the United States, except 6f property of the United
States.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. v. U. S.
209

Argument for Appelant.

Supplies ordered by and shipped to authorized officers
of the United States, who were to test or inspect them,
at or beyond destinations, and thus determine whether
to reject or accept them, did not, while in course of transportation, belong to the United States.
The fixing of purchase prices to apply at points of shipment does not effect a transmission of title to commodities from the producers to the United States if the acceptance of the supplies by the United States depended,
by contract, upon questions to be determined by its
officers at or beyond destinations of the shipments.
The mere payment of freight charges by a consignee
does not divest title to the freights out of the shipper and
vest it in the consignee. Clarkson v. Stevens, 106 U. S.
505; Gorman v. Kennedy; 126 Mich. 182; 5mart v.
Batchelder, 57 N. H. 140; Cornell v. Clark, 104 N. Y.
451; Smith v. Wisconsin Investment Co., 144 Wis. 151;
Wagar v. Farren, 71 Mich. 370; Pike v. Baughn, 39 Wis.
499; Blodgett v. Hovey, 90 lih. 571.
That the Government, by the practice here concerned,
obtains th&same benefit that would have followed from
taking title at points of shipment on land-aided lines and
paying land-grant rates, is immaterial. United States v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co., 249 U. S. 354; Alabama Great
Southern,R. B. Co.. v. United States, 49 Ct. Clms. 522;
Louisville & Nashville R. B. Co. v. United States, 50 Ct.
Chins. 414; 54 Ct. Chns. 161.
The only practical effect of the use made of government bills of lading is to give this Court jurisdictioni of
transactions more than six years old at the time the suit
was instituted. This misapplication by government
officers 6f a government form was ec legal fraud upon the
railroad company; and, according to the adjudications in
like cases, .time did.not begin to run against the assertion
.of the railroad's claim so long as its officers were in ignorance of the real.facts. Exploration Co. v. United States.

247 U. S. 435.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

Mr. Blackburn Esterli-ne,Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Mr. &olidtorGeneral Beck was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mn. JusTcE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question in the case is whether, in certain shipments of property for use by the United States, title to
the propertY passed- at the place of shipment or at the
place of delivery. Or to state the questiofh another way,
whether the shipments while in transit were the property
of the United States and properly tiansported it landgrant rates, or did not becQme the prop'erty of the United
States until after receipt at"destination and -subject to
commercial rates. The latter is the contention of the
•Railroad Company, -although it rendered bills for and
accepted payment of them upon the other view. Its explanation is, it believed that that view was correct, that is,
believed the shipments were the property of the7 United
State , and, so believing, rendered bills for $0,000 less
than -it was entitled to, and, 'so believing, accepted payment of them. For that $40,000, this action was brought.
The Court of Claims decided against the Railroad Company and dismissed its petition.
Theie is no contest of the findings or of the decision of
the Court of Claims other than that expressed in the contention above stated.
It appears from the findings that the Railroad Com.pany is a corporation and in the operation of a system
of railways, those on which the shipments with which this
case is concerned were transported. Three of the railways
of the system were constructed with the aid of public
lands granted by Congress.
The shipments consisted of certain articles for use in
government improvements of the Missouri River.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. v. U. S.
209

213

Opinion of the Court.

The contention seems to be that the shipments were to
be tested or inspected at or beyond destinations and accepted or rejected there, but while in course of transportation were not to belong to the United States. To sustain
this view, Clarkson v. Stevens, 106 U. S. 505, is cited.
The case does not sustain the contention. It was decided
that the intention of the parties was determinative, not an
arbitrary rule of construction. In the case at bar the findings of the court demonstrate that the Government especially intended to avail itself of the fact that the shipments were to be transported over land-grant roads, and
that it was entitled to deductions from the commercial
rates.
The years of the shipments and the roads over which
they were to be transported are given'in Finding V, and"
the finding recites: "These materials and supplies were
all purchased on invitation to bidders, proposals of bidders, and vouchers, on which payments were made to the
sellers. The form of invitation on which bids were made
invariably read: 'The prices will be for the articles delivered f. o. b. cars at [the place of shipment]. The successful bidder will procure the cars, but the United States
will pay the freight and furnish shipping instructions and
bills of lading. This arrangement is made to enable.the
Government to take advantage of land-grant rateE, and
will not operate to relieve the dealer of any responsibility
as shipper that would attach if the delivery had been
at destination.' This form of invitation was only used
over land-grant or bond-aided roads, and was never used
where delivery was to be made at point of use."
And the finding states that "The shipments were all
made on "Government bills of lading, which were acComplished, the articles inspected, and accepted at points of
use by the proper Government officials."
We agree with the Court of Claims that "the United
States and the contractors were privileged to write into
their contract such terms as they saw fit" and that "pro-

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the°Court.

265 U. S.

visions for a final inspection *atpoint of delivery.or for
the rendering of a further service by the contractor at
that point were not inconsistent with and could not be
invoked to nullify a specific provision under which the
title to the property passed to the United States by delivery at the initial point of shipment to the Carrier as.
agent. Land-grant rates were applicable." See Hatch
v. Oil Company, 100 U. S. 124, 134, 135.
As we have seen the Railroad Company made landgrant deductions from commercial rates in the bills it
rendered. It does not now show fraud or mistake of fact;
its only excuse is that its "officers believed that the shipments belonged to the United States.' It is not charged
that the belief was engendered by any practices or artifices of the officers of the United States. Arid it seems to
have had continuity for a; long time. A finding of the
Court of Claiis is that "part of, the claim, presented,
amounting to $2,511.68, relating to shipments from
October 30, 1911, to March 7, 1912, was barred by thd
statute of limitations when this suit was commenced,
-March 23, 1918-.
The Government dealt with the consignors as if the
property was its--dealt with the Railroad Company as
if the property was its, the Government's, and, as we
have seen, the Railroad Company dealt with the Govern-.
.ment on that assumption, and the contractors dealt with
it on that- assumption. The incidental regulations between it ind the contractbrs cannot divest that ownership
in the interest of the Railroad Company.
Judgment affirmed.

