224

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U.S.

SALINGER, JR. v. LOISEL, UNITED STATES MA.RSEAL

FOR

THE

EASTERN

DISTRICT

OF

LOUISIANA.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

SALINGER, JR. v. UNITED STATES, AND LOISEL,
AS UNITED STATES MARSHAL, EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT -OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 341, 342, 705.

Argued January 14, 15, 1924.-Decided May
26, 1924.

1. Warrants of removal issued in triplicate are in legal effect but
a single warrant, and defendant who had secured a supersedeas
on appeal from an order refusing relief by habeas corpus from
arrest under one, could not lawfully be arrested under another.
P. 228.
2. Where an accused person, on being surrendered by his surety
and instituting habeas corpus proceedings; is rearrested in removal proceedings, due practice requires that a test of the second
confinement, involving only', the same questions, be had by
amendment of the existing petition in habeas corpus; and where a
second petition is erroneously brought, the two should be con-'
solidated and heard a§ one case, thus avoiding the confusion and
expense of double appeals. P. 229.
3. The common-law doctrine of res judicata does not extend to a
decision on habeas corpus refusing to discharge a prisoner. P. 230.
4. But, in the exercise of its soumd, judicial discretion " to dispose of
the party as law and justice may require," (Rev. Stats. § 761,) a
federal court may base its refusal to discharge on a prior refusal;
and, as a safeguard against abuse of the writ, the applicant in any
case ma be required to show whether he has made a prior applicalion and, if so, what.was dbe" on it. Id.
5. Under the Sixth Amendment, an accused cannot be tried in one
district under an indictment showing that the offense ivas committed in another district. P. 232.

SALINGER v. LOISEL.
224

Opinion of the Court.

6. Nor is there any authority for a removal to a district other
than that in which the trial may constitutionally be had. P. 232.
7. Under § 215 of the Criminal Code, to knowingly cause a letter
to be deliveled by mail, in accordance with the direction thereon,
for the purpose of executing a fraudulent scheme, is an offense
separate from that of mailing the letter, or causing it to be mailed,
for the same purpose; and, where the letter is so delivered as directed, the person who caused the mailing causes .the delivery, at
the place of delivery, and may be prosecuted in that district
although he was not present there. P. 233.
8. Under Jud. Code, § 53, when a district contains several -divisions,
the trial (in the language of the statute, the "prosecution") of
an offense must be in the division where it was committed, unless
the accused consents otherwise; but the indictment may lawfully
be returned in another division of the same district. P. 235.
9. Resistance to removal having been unreasonably protracted, the
Court directs immediate issuance of its mandate, with orders requiring that the accused under his bonds surrender himself within
ten days to the marshal in the district of the removal proceeding
or the district of the indictment. P. 238.
Nos. 341 and 342, affirmed.

295 Fed. 498 (No. 705,) reversed.
APPEALS from two orders of the District Court refusing
release in habeas corpus; and certiorari to a judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a like order made

on a third application.
Mr. B. L Salinger,with whom Mr. St. ClairAdams and
M11r. L. H. Salinger were on the briefs, for appellant and
petitioner.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor Gerral Beck was on

the brief, for appellee and respondents.
Mi. JusTIcE VAx D.EvANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
These three cases involve certain phases of a protracted
resistance by B. I. Salinger, Jr., to an effort by the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

States to have him removed to the District of South" Da,kota to answer an indictient for a violation there of
§ 215 of the Criminal Code, which makes it,a punishable
offense'to use the mail for the purpose 6f executing a
scheme or artifice to defraud.
The indictment was returned in the District Court for
the District of South Dakota'when sifting in the western
division, and the offense was charged as committed 'in
the southern division; but the grand jury which returned
the indictment had bieen impaneled from the body of the
district regardless of the divisions and instructed to inquire into and make due presentment of offenses committed in any part of the district. After receiving the
indictment the court, at the suggestion of the United
States Attorney, remitted it to the southern division for
trial'and other proceedings. A bench warrant was issued
for Salinger's arrest, and he appeared before a commissioner in Iowa and gave bond for his appearance in the
southern division on the first day of the next term. But
he failed to appear, and the bond was declared forfeited.
Later, Salinger being in New York City, a proceeding
was begun before a commissioner there for his arrest and
removal to South Dakota, under § 1014 of the Revised
Statutes. He was arrested, taken before the commissioner, and accorded a hearing. The indictment was produced; he admitted he was the person charged; and on
the evidence presented the commissioner found there was
probable cause and committed him to await the issue of
a warrant of removal. He then sued out a writ of habeas
corpus -in the District Court for that district; but after a
hearing the court discharged the writ, remanded.him to
the marshal's custody, and issued a warrant for his removal. On his appeal, that decision was reviewed and
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit. 288 Fed. 752. He mdde no attempt to obtain
any other or further review. When the 'mandate of the

SALINGER v. LOISEL.
224

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals went down, to avoid being removed in the custody of the marshal, he gave L bond for
his appearance two weeks hence in South Dakota Again
he failed to appear, and that bond was .declared forfeited.
After giving the bond in New York and before the day
stipulated therein for his appearance in South Dakota,
•Salinger went to New Orleans, appeared with a representitive of the surety in that bond before a commissioner there, and was surrendered by the surety's representative to the marshal of that dLstriqt in the commissioner's presence. Such a surrender in a distant district
may not have been in accord with § 1018 of the Revised
Statutes and may not have discharged the surety, but
nothing turns on that here. The surrender seems to have
been made with Salinger's full consent; but however
made, it constituted no obstacle to'further proceedings for
his removal. The commissioner accordingly directed that
Ire be held in the marshal's custody to await the institution of such a proceeding. He then sued out a writ of
habeas corpus in the District Court at New Orleans and
was admitted to bail pending a hearing on the writ.
In a few days-during which Salinger failed to appear
in South Dakota as stipulated in the bond given in New
York-a proceeding for his arrest and removal under
1014 was begun before the commissioner in New Orleans.
He was arrested, taken before the commissioner, and accorded a hearing. The indictment was produced; evidence ias presented tending to show he was the person
charged; and he gave testimony tending to show he was
not in South Dakota at the times he was charged with
unlawfully using the mail. On all the evidence the commissioner found the requisite identity and 'probable cause,
and committed him to await the issue of a warrant for
his removal. He then sued out another writ of habeas
corpus in the District Court, and was admitted to bail
pending a hearing on! the writ.

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

On a hearing in the two cases all the proceedings in
South Dakota, New York, the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, and New Orleans which have
been recited herein were produced in evidence, and on
consideration thereof the court discharged both writs of
habeas corpus, remanded Salinger to the marshal's custody, and issued a warrant for his removal. Direct appeals to this Court in the two cases were then prayed by
Salinger and allowed by the District Court, it being
especially directed in both cases that the appeal operate
as a supersedeas on Salinger's giving approved bail. The
bail was given and approved. These cases are Nos. 341
and 342.
Notwithstanding the supersedeas so effected, Salinger
was taken into custody by the marshal under the warrant
of removal with a view to executing its command. He
then sued out a third writ of habeas corpus in the District Court,-his petition therefor being like his earlier
petitions, save as in it he additionally complained that
his detention under the warrant of removal was in contravention of the supersedeas allowed on the appeals in
.Nos. 341 and 342. After a hearing the District Court
discharged the writ of habeas corpus and remanded him
to the marshal's custody for removal under the warrant.
An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit, where the decision was affirmed. 295
Fed. 498. The case is here on certiorari, 263 U. S. 683,
and is No. 705. Bail in this case was allowed and given
here when certiorari was granted.
In disposing of the additional ground of complaint adV nced in No. 705 the Circuit Court of Appeals proceeded
on the assumption that there were three distinct warrants
of removal and that one of these was neither involved in
the appeals in Nos. 341 and 342 nor covered by the supersedeas. But the assumption was not well founded.
.-There was but one proceeding for removal before the

SALINGER v. LOISEL.
224

Opinion of the Court.

commissioner in New Orleans and it was based on the
single indictment in South Dakota. There also was but
one commitment for removal in that proceeding. The
warrant of removal issued by the District Court was
based expressly on that commitment; but for reasons
not explained the warrant was issued in triplicate. In
substance, form and date the three papers were identical.
Taken either collectively or separately they embodied a
single command, which was that the marshal "forthwith" remove Salinger to South Dakota and there deliver him to the proper authority to be dealt with under
the indictment. *To execute the command of one triplicate was to execute that of all. In legal effect therefore
there was one warrant, not three. One was all that was
sought, and no basis was laid for more. The obvious purpose of the supersedeas was to stay the execution of the
command for removal pending the appeals to this Court
in Nos. 341 and 342, and of course that purpose could not
be thwarted by merely duplicating or triplicating the warrant embodying the command. It follows that the additional groitnd of complaint advanced in No. 705 was well
taken. But, as that ground could be effective only during the life of the supersedeas in Nos. 341 and 342, it has
no bearing on the decision to be given in them on the
right to remove.
Before coming to the questions presented in those cases
we think the procedure which was followed in them calls
for comment. The first case was begun when Salinger was
committed by the commissioner to await a proceeding for
his removal. Later when such a. proceeding was begdn
and the commissioner definitely committed him to await
the issue of a warrant of removal, that change in the situation should have been shown in.the first case by an appropriate amendment or supplement to the petition instead
of being made the basis of a new and separate case. And
when, in disregard of the propriety of taking that course,

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

the second case was begun, the two should have been consolidated and conducted as one. The parties were the
same and the cases presented a single controversy. Maintaining them separately was productive of confusion and
led to two appeals -to, this Court, when had the right
course been taken one appeal plainly would have sufficed
and would have lessened by one half the printing and
other costs. As it is now, one record is largely a duplication of what appears in the other and both are exceedingly confusing. The course that was taken should
not have been selected, nor should the court have permitted it.
In Nos. 341 and 342 the right to arrest and remove in
virtue of the indictment was questioned on the same
grounds that were set up in the earlier case in New York,
where that right was upheld. Because of this situation,
counsel for the appellee invoke the doctrine of res
Judicataand insist that the decision in the New York case
was a final adjudication of the right and is binding on all
other courts, including this Court. We are unable to go
so far. At common law. the doctrine of res judicat, did
not extend to a decision on habeas corpus refusing to discharge the prisoner. The state courts generally have
accepted that rule whlere not modified by statute; the
lower federal courts usually have given effect to it; and
this Court has conformed to it and thereby sanctioned it,
although announcing no express decision on. the point.
The cases of Carterv. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365, 378,
and Ex parteSpencer, 228 U. S. 652, 658, are notable instances. We regard the rule as well established in this
jurisdiction.
But it does not follow that a refusal to discharge on one
application is without bearing or weight when a later application is being considered. In early times when a refusal to discharge was not open to appellate review, courts
and. judges were accustomed to exercise bn independent

SALINGER v. LOISEL.
224

Opinion of the Court.

judgment on each successive application, regardless of the
number. But when a right to an appellate review was
given t e reason for that practice ceased and the practice
came to be materially changed,-just as when a, right to
a comprehensive review in criminal cases was'given the
scope of inquiry deemed admissible on habeas cor'pu
came to be relatively narrowed.
The federal statute (§ 761, Rev. Stats.) does not lay
down any specific rule on the subject, but directs the
court "to dispose of the party as law'and justice may require." A study of the cases will show that this has been
construed as meaning that each application is to be disposed of in the -exercise of a sound judicial discretion
guided and controlled by a consideration of whatever has
a rational bearing on the propriety of the discharge
sought. Among the matters which may be considered,
and even given controlling weight, are (a) the existence*
of another remedy, such as a right in ordinary course to an
appellate review in the criminal case, and (b)a prior refusal to discharge on a like application. Ex parte Royall,
117 U. S. 241; Ex parte Fonda, 117 U. S.516; Ex parte
Mirzan, 119 U. S. 584; Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S. 183; In
re Frederich,149 U. S. 70; New York v. Eno, 155 U. S.
89; In re Chapman, 156 U. S. 211; Riggins v. United
States, 199 U. S. 547; In. re Lincoln, 202 U. S. 178; Henry
v. Henkel, 235 U. S.219; Ex parte Cuddy, 40 Fed. 62;
In re Simmons, 45 Fed. 241; Ex parte Moebus, 148 Fed.
39; In re Kopel, 148 Fed. 505. The decision in the Cuddy
Case was on a second application, and was given by Mr.
Justice Field. While holding the doctrine of res Judicata
inapplicable, he said, "the officers before whom the second application is made may take into consideration the
fact that a previous application has been made to another
officer and refused; and in some instances that fact may
justify a refusal of the second. The action of the court
or justice on the second application will naturally be

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

affected to some degree by the character of the court or
officer to whom the first application was made, and the
fullness of the consideration given to it."
In practice the rules we here have outlined will accord
to the writ of habeas corpus its recognized status as a
privileged writ of freedom, and yet make against an
abusive use of it. As a further safeguard against abuse
the court, if not otherwise informed, may on receiving an
application for the -writ require the applicant to show
whether he has made a prior application and, if so, what
action was had on it.
Here the prior refusal to discharge was by a court of
co brdinate jurisdiction and was affirmed in a considered
opinion by a Circuit Court of Appeals. Had the District Court disposed of the later applicatiAs on that
ground, its discretion would have been well exercised and
we should sustain its action without saying more. But
its decision does not appear to have been put on that
ground; and, as circumstances are disclosed which make
it appropriate that we consider and pass on two of the
objections urged against a removal, we turn to them.
Both objections go to the jurisdiction of tl-& court before which it is proposed to take and try the accused. One
is that under the Sixth .Amendment to the Constitution
there can be no trial in the District of South Dakota because the indictment shows that the offense charged was
not committed in that district but in a di trict in Iowa,
and the other that, even if the indictment be taken as
charging an offense in the District of South Dakota, it
shows that it was returned in a division of that district
other than the one in which the offense was committed.
It must be conceded that under the Sixth Amendment
to the Constitution the accused can not be tried in one
district on an indictment showing that the offense was
not committed in that district; and it also must b& conceded that there is no authority for a removal to"a dis-

SALINGER v. LOISEL.
224

Opinion of the Court.

trict other than one in which the Constitution permits
the trial to be had. We proceed therefore to inquire
whether it appears, as claimed, that the offense was not
committed in the'district to which removal is sought.
The material part-of § 215 of the Criminal Code on
which the indictment is based reads:
"Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any
. shall, for the purscheme or artifice to defraud, .
pose of executing such scheme or artifice . . . place,
in any postor cause to be placed, any letter . '..
office, . . . or authorized depository for mail matter,
to be sent or delivered, . . . or shall knowingly cause
to be delivered by mail according to the direction thereshall be flned not
.
on . . . any such letter, .
more than one thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more
than five years, or both."
The indictment charges that the defendants, of whom
Salinger is one, devised a scheme and artifice to defraud
divers persons by means described, and thereafter, for the
purpose and with the intent of executing their scheme and
artifice, did unlawfully and knowingly "cause to be delivered by mail" according to the direction thereon, at
Viborg within the southern division of the District of
South Dakota, a certain letter directed to a named person at that place, the letter and the direction being particularly described. The indictment then adds, in an explanatory way (see Homer v. United States, 143 U. S.
207, 213), that on the day preceding the delivery the
defendants had caused the letter to be placed in the mail
at Sioux City, Iowa, for delivery at Viborg according to
the direction thereon. There were other counts in the
indictment but they need not be particularly noticed, for
the one just described is a fair sample of all.
Section 215 is a regnactment, with changes, of an earlier
statute which made it an offense for the deviser of a
scheme or artifice to defraud to place or cause to be placed

2 4

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

in the mail any letter in furtherance thereof, but did not
contain the clause making it also an offense for the deviser
to cause such a letter "to be delivered by the mail acording to the direction thereon." Under the original staiut&'
,the offense was held to be comp lete when the letter was
placed in the mail depository for transmission, and the
place of the deposit was held to be the place of commission, regardless of whether or where the letter was delivered. The appellant insists that the introduction of
the new clause into the statute as regnacted is not of
material significance here. We are of a different opinion.
That clause plainly provides for the punishment of the
deviser of the scheme or artifice where he causes a letter
in furtherance of it to be delivered by the mail according
to the direction on the letter. This is done by-way of
enlarging the original definition of the offense, the clause
dealing with the placing of such a letter in a mail depository being retained. Evidently Congress intended to
make the statute more effective and to that.end to change
it so that, where the letter is delivered according to the
direction, such wrongful use of the mail may be dealt with
in the district of the delivery as well as in that of the
deposit. A letter may be mailed without being delivered,
but, if it be delivered according to the address, the person who causes the mailing causes the delivery. Not
only so, but the place at which he causes the delivery is
the place at which it is brought about in regular course by
the agency which he uses for the purpose. United States
v. Kenofskey, 243 U. S. 440, 443. Were the Government
attempting to prosecute at both places, a question might
arise as to whether it should be required to elect between
them (see Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, 474); but, as
there is no such attempt here, that question need not be
considered. The appellant relies on United States v.
Stever, 222 U. S. 167, as showing that the offense was
committed at the place of the deposit fnd not at that

SALINGER v. LOISEL.
224

235

Opinion of the Court.

of the delivery; but the case is not in point. It arose
before the statute was changed. Tle 'indictment there
was in two counts: One was based on the original statute
and was expressly abandoned by the Government. The
other was based on another statute relating to the use:of
the mail in promoting lotteries and other schemes of
chance.
"Weconclude that there is no sound basis
for the claim
that the indictment shows that the offense was not committed in the district to which removal is sought. An
effort was made to strengthen that claim by producing
testimony tending to show that Salinger was not in that
district at the time. But of that effort it suffices to say
that the nature of the offense is such that he could have
committed it, or have participated in its commission, even
though he was not then in the district. In re Palliser,136
U. S. 257; Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 207, 213;
Burton v. United States, 202 .U. S. 344, 386.
The objection that the indictment was not retunied m
the division in which it charges the offense was committed, and therefore that jurisdiction could not be
founded on it, is based on a provision of § 53 of the Judicial Code reading as follows:
"When a district contains more than one division,
. all prosecutions for crimes or offenses shall be
had within the division . . . where the same were
committed, unless the court, or the judge thereof, upon
application of the defendant, shall order the cause to be
transferred for prosecution to another division of the
district."
South Dakota constitutes a single judicial district with
one District Court; but the district is divided"into four
divisions where sessions are held at times fixed by law,
such sessions whether in one division or another being
"successive terms of one and the same court." Hollister
v. United States, 145 Fed. 773, 782. A like situation
exists in many of the States.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

Formerly special statutes applicable to particular districts indicated the division in which criminal proceedings should be had, but the statutes were not uniform.
Some provided that crimes and offenses should be "indictable" and triable only in the division where committed, or that all criminal proceedings should "be
brought" and had in such division. But the greater
number, in varying terms, required that the trial be in
that division, unless the accused consented to its being in
another.- In districts where the latter were in force, it was
coinmon to impanel a grand jury from the district at
large, to charge such grand jury with the investigation
and presentment of offenses committed in any part of
the district, and when indictments were returned to
remit them for trial and other proceedings to the divisions
wherein the offenses were committed, save as the defendant assented to a disposal in another division. The practice is illustrated in Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263,
297, and Rosencrans v. United States, 1651U. S. 257. The
general pro'-ision in § 53 here relied on superseded the
special statutes. It obviously is less restrictive in its
terms than some of them were; and the prevailing practice under it has been like that theretofore followed in
districts where the less restrictive provisions were in
force. See Biggerstaff v. United States, 260 Fed. 926;
United States v. Chennault, 230 Fed. 942.
The contention is that the word "prosecution" in the
general provision includes the finding and return of an
indictment. That the word sometimes is used as including them must be conceded. But there are also relations
in which it comprehends only the proceedings had after
the indictment is returned. Here we think it is used with
the latter signification. It appears twice in the provision,
doubtless with the same meaning. The first time is in
the clause directing that " all prosecutions" be had in the
division where the offense was committed; and the second

SALINGER v. LOISEL.
224

237

Opinion of the Court.

is in the clause permitting the court or judge, at the instance of the defendant, to order "the cause to be transferred for prosecution" to another division. The eonnection in which it appears the second time shows that it
refers to the proceedings after the indictment is found
and returned, that- is to say,"after there is a cause susceptible of being tiansferred. Besides, had Congress intended to put an end to the prevailing practice of impaneling a grand jury for the entire district at a session
in some division and of remitting the indictments to the
several divisions in which the offenses were committed,
unless the accused elected otherwise, it is but reasonable
that that intention would have been expressed in apt
terms, such as were used in some of the exceptional
special statutes. That practice was attended with real
advantages which should not be lightly regarded as put
aside. In many divisions ohly one term is held in a year.
If persons arrested and committed for offenses in those
divisions were required to await the action of a grand jury
impaneled there, periods of almost a year must elapse in
many instances before a trial could be had or an opportunity given for entdring a plea of gulty and receiving
sentence.
In our opinion the real purpose of the provision, that
which best comports with its terms when taken in the
light of the circumstances in which it was enacted, is to
require, where a district contains more than one division,
that the trial be had in the division where the offense was
committed, unless the accused consents to be tried in another. The Circuit Court of Appeals so held in a well
considered opinion in Biggerstaff v. ,UnitedStates, supra.
The only decision the other way, of which we are advised,
was by the District Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana in United States v. Chennault, supra; and that
court receded from that decision in the cases now
before us.

238

2 OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

The appellant relies on Postv. United States, 161 U. S."
583, as making for the contrary conclusion. But it does
not do so.

The case turned on a special statute, now

superseded, declaring that "all criminal proceedings" for
offenses in the District of Minnesota "shall be brought,
had and prosecuted" in the division in which the same
were committed. The difference between that special
direction and the general one now before us is so marked
that further'comment is not required.
Other objections. to the removal are urged, but those we
have discussed and overruled are all that'.can with any.
propriety be regarded as open to consideration on these
appeals.

A survey of the records before us shows that the resistance to removal has been unreasonhbly protracted.
The mandate in these .cases will'issue forthwith and will
embody an order requiring, under the bail given on the
appeals in Nos. 341 and 342 and under that given on the
granting of the writ of certiorari in No. 705, that Salinger
surrender himself into the custody of the marshal for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, at New Orleans, within ten
days from the day the mandate bears date preparatory to
a removal under the warrant heretofore issued by the District Judge of that district;- or,. in the alternative, that he
surrender himself within such ten days into the cust.ody
of the-marshal for the District of South Dakota at some
place within that district, to be dealt with according to
law.

Judgments in Nos. 841 and 842 affifmed.
Judgment in No. 705 reversed.

