LIBERTY. NATL. 'BANK v. BEAR.

365
3

Counsel for Parties.

LIBERTY NATIONAL BANK OF ROANOKE, VIR-

GINIA, v. BEAR, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF
THE ESTATES- OF W. L. BECKER, SR., AND W. L.
BECKER, JR., PARTNERS, ETC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CMCU
COuRT OF APPEALS FOR TE
FOURTHr CIRCUIT.

No. 238. Argued April 25, 1924.-Decided May 26,1924."
L.'To invalidate the lien of a judngment under § 67f of the .Bankruptcy.Act, he who challenges it must show not only that the judgment was recovered within four months prior to the fihg of the
petition in bankruptcy,- but also, by pleading and proff, that the
judgment debtor was insolvent when the lien was obtained. P. 368.
2. Assuming (but not deciding) that an adjudication of the bankruptcy of a partnership necessarily adjudges the partners, as in" dividuals, bankrupt, it raises no presumption that they were insolvefit for any period before the petition in bankruptcy was filed.
P. 370.
3. Nor does the fact that sales of the property of the partnership
and partners, made some months later -by thfe trustee in bank.ruptcy, did not realize enough to pay for the patnership or
individual debts, establish that the. partners were insolvent at a
time anterior to the fling of the bankruptcy petition. Id.
285 Fed. 703, reversed.

i to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of thi District Court allowing the
claims of te above named bank, as secured- claims, in
CEmR

"bankruptcy.
Mr. James D. Johnston for petitioner.

Mr. Harvey B. Apper8on and Mr. Tames A. Bear,
with whom Mr. G. A. Wingfield was on the brief, for

respondent.

"-366

OCTOBER- TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

M.Jus- ci SAFoRDo

265 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case, which arises'in proceedings inbankruptcy
involves claims by a judgment creditor to liens upon the
real estate of the-bankrupts.
On July 20, 1920, the Liberty National Bank recovered
a judgment in a Virginia court against the Roanoke Provision Co., a partnership composed of the two Beckers,
and against the. Beckers iidividually. This judgmentwhich was duly docketed in the Judgment Lien Book and
on which execution *as issued-was under the aws of
Virginia -a lien upon the real estate of the judgment
debtors. Code of'1919, § 6470.
Thereafter, on August 6, an involiuntary petition in
bankruptcy was-filed in the Federal District Court against
the Company, as a partnership composed of the t o
Beckers, alleging that it had committed an act bf bankruptcy on August 4 .by ekecuting a general assignment for
the benefit of creditors, and that it was insolvent. There
was no allegation that'the Beckers were individually in-solvent or had committed acts of bankruptcy; and no
prayer that ihey be' adjudged bankrupt :individually.
They fied a joint answer admitting- the allegations of
the petition. On August 20, the Company, as a partnership cqmposed of the two Beckeis, was adjudged -hnkrupt by the District Judge; but they were not adjudged
.bankrupt as individuals. Thereafter, pursuant to an
order of the referee, -theCompany and the Beckers filed*
schedules of.their.respective assets and liabilities.
In April, 1.921--more than nine months after the recovery of the judgment-the Bekers filed separate voluntary petitions in .baikruptcy; and each was adjudged
bankrupt as an individual; Bear, the trustee in the partnership proceeding, was appointed trustee-of their individual bstates.

LIBERTY NATL. BANK v. BEAR.'
365

367

Opinion of the Court.

Thereafter the Bank.filed proofs of claim on its judgment against the separate estates of the Beckers, alleging
that it constituted a lien upon their individual real estate and was entitled to -priority as such. The trustee
filed objections to the allowance of these prior claims, on
the ground, among others, that by virtue of the proceedings against the Company he had been vested with title
to'the property of the individual partners as well as that
of the partnership, as of th6 date of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy against the partnership, and that as
the judgment against the individual partners had been
recovered within four inonths prior to the filing of that
petition, it could not, uqnder the provisions of the Bankruptcy Apt, be eiforced as a lien upon their separate estates. He did not aver, however, that either .the Company. or the Beckers were"insolvent at the time the judgment was recovered.
The 'referee, holding that the liens created by the judgment upon the separate properties of the Beckers had
been "annulled" by the proceedings under the petitibn
against the partnership, disallowed the claims.of the Bank
as secured claims and. allowed them as dnsecured claims
merely.1 This order of the referee was reversed by the
District Judge, on the ground that. as the order of adjudication h d merely adjudged the bankruptcy of the Company, and not the bankruptcy of the Beckers individually,
the lien of the judgment upon their separate estates had
not been "nullified." The trustee Was thereupon granted
an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The Bank

* moved to dismiss this appeal upon the ground, amongothers, that the trustee had not alleged, either in his objections to the allowance of its claims or elsewhere, that
.'the Beakers were.insolvent at the time the. judgment was
'The referee at the same time disallowed another claim of the
.Bank to a lien upon the real estate of the partnership; but no steps.
were taken by the Bank to review his order in this respect.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

.

265 U.S.

recovered, nor had such insolvency been proven; and that
allegation, and proof of their insolvency at the tirie the
lien of the judgment attached was "absolutely essential.'
-The Circuit Court of Appeas:-without ruling on this
motion-reversed the decree of the District Court upon
the ground that the "adjudication of the pirtnership was
necessarily an adjudication of the bankruptcy of the individuals composing it, and that
. .
t e lien of a
judgment obtained within four months 6f the mingof the'
petition against the partnership was lost by the adjudi:cation." 285 Fed. 703., This decision was apparently
based upon § 67f of the Bankruptcy Act,-upon which
the trustee .had- relied at the hearing before the
referee--although no reference to it is made in .the opinion,; it being. evidently assumed by the ourt that under
that section a, judgment lien obtained within four months
prior "tothe filing of a petition in bafdmuptcy is-dissolved
by the subsequent adjudication of .the bahkruptcy of the
jidgment debto4 without reference to his solvency: or insolvency at. the. time the lien was obtained.' .This writ
* of certiorari was then granted. 261 U. S. 612.
Upon the question whether the adjudication of the
bankruptcy. of a partnership involves an adjudication of
the bankruptcy of the individual partners, there appears
to havp been 'a diversity of opinion in the lower'.federal
dourts The decision in Francisv. McNeal, 228 U. S.'
695,.upon which the 'Circuit Court of Appeals chiefly
relied, did not involve a determination of this direct question. And .we do not find it necessary to determine it
now; since, eyen if the adjudication of the baikruptcy
2This appears from a statement in the opinion of the referee.
3 The Court said: "The insolvency of the partnership atthe date
of the judgment seeis to have been assunied in the court -below. At
any rate,. no issue of solvency or insolvency at 'the date of the judgment appears to have been made. We express no opinion asto the
existence of swch insolvency or its effect." (p. 706.)

LIBERTY NATL. BANK v: BEAR.
365

369

Opinion of the Court.

of the Company operated as an adjudication of the bankruptcy of the Beckers individually-which we do* not
intiniate-nevertheless, in the absene of-either pleading
or proof as to their insolvency vhen the Bank recovered
its judgment, there is no ground&under §-67f of the-act
for annulling the lien thereby acquired upon their
property.4
This section provides: ".That .all levies, judgm~ents,
attachments, or other liens, obtained through -legal proceedings agai, st a-person who isinsolvent, at any time
within four ihonths prior to the filing of a peition in
bankruptcy against him, shall be deemed null and void
in case-he is adjudged a .bankrupt,, and the property
affected by the levy, judgment, attachment, or other lien*
shall be deemed wholly discharged and released from the
same, and shall pass to the trustee as a part of the estate
of the bankrupt ... " It applies only to liefis obtained
in legal proceedings against a person who was "insolvent"
when the lien was acquired. If the debt6r was then
solvent the lien is not invalidated -although it was. ob.tained within, four months prior 'to the filing of the
petition in bankruptcy. Taubel-Scott-Kitzmiller.Co. v.
Fox, 264 U. S. 426. To-inyalidate the lien the person
challenging it must show that the debtor was insolvent
when it was obtained. Stone-Ordean-Wells Co.' v. Mark
(C.C.A.), 227 Fed. 975, 978; Mrtimv. Oliver (C. C. A.);
260 Fed. 89, 93; Simpson v. 'VanEtten, (C. C.), 108 Fed.
199, 201; Keystone Brew'g Co.v. Schermer,,.41 Pa. St.
361, 365; Jackso v. Valley Tie Co., 108 Va. 714, 718;
Newberry'Shoe Co.v. Collier, 111 Va. 288,.290; Severin
v. Robinson, 27 Ind. App. 55, 61. And-see Re'Richards
(C.C. A.), 96 Fed. 935; Re Chappell. (D. C), 113 Fed;
545; Re Community Stores (D. C.), 282 Fed. 328. Such'
"There is neither averment nor proof bringing the case

ithii

§ 67c or any-other provision of the act relating to the annulment .of

-370

OCTOBER TERM, "1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265U.S..

insolvency must be both alleged and pioved. Stone-.
Ordean-Wells Co. v. Mark, Opra,p. 978. In the present case the trustee neither alleged the insolvency of the Beakers at the time the judgment was
recovered and became a .lien on their properties,, nor
proved such insolvency. If the admission in their joint
answer to the petition filed against the partnership that
the Conipany was insolvent; was intended as an admi sion
of their individual insolvency, it was, at the most, an
admission of such insolvency on August 6, when the
petition in bankruptcy was filed,--a very different thing
from insolvency at the time the judgment was recovered-and, in any event, would not ]iave been binding
on the Bank, which .was/not then a party to the bankruptcy proceeding. So, if the adjudication of the partnership as a bankrupt can be regarded as adjudging the
insolvency of the individual partiers at the date the
petition in bankruptcy was filed-which we do not determine-such an adjudication, for like reason, would
not be binding upon the Bank. "Gratiot State Bank v.
Johnson, 249. U. S. 246; And, generally, an adjudication in.bankruptcy in no way deternines whether .or not
the debtor was insolvent at the time a lien was obtained
through legal proceedings against him; there being nopresumption arising from the adjudication that he was
insolvent for aiy period,before the petition in bank-ruptey was filed.: Keystone .rew'g "Jo.. v. Schermer,
supra, p. 365; Jackson v.. Talley Tie Co., spra,p. 719;Newberry Shoe Co. v. dollier, supra,.p. 291. Nor does
the fact that the sales of the .partnership and indivdual
properties made. some months later by the trustee did
*The act of bankruptcy alleged, namely, the making of a general
assignment on August 4, did not involve a question of the insolvency
of the partnership at that date; the making of a general assignment
be . an act of bankruptcy without reference to the, solvancy or
insolvency of the debtor. Bankruptcy Act, § 3a(4).

SHEEHAN CO. v. SHULER.

371

Syllabus.

365

not realize enough to pay either the'debts of the partfiership or the debts of the individual partners, respectively,
establish the insolvency of the partners at the time the
lien was obtained.
There being neither allegation nor proof by the trustee
of the insolvency of the Beckers when the Bank recovered its judgment and fastened its liens upon their real
estate, the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is re-

versed and the cause remanded to the District' Court
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

R. E. SHEEHAN COMPANY ET AL. v. SHULER, AS
STATE TREASURER OF'THE STATE OF NEW

YORK, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF XEW YORK.
.No. 593. Argued Jajiuary 9,' 1924.-Decided May 26, 1024.
Amendments of the New York Workmen's Coxhpensation Law (see
New York Central 1. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188,) provide that,
when an injury causes the death of an employee leaving no beneficiaries, the employer or other insurance cafrier shall pay the
State Treasurer'$500 for each of two special funds, one to be used
in paying additional'compensation to employees incurring permanent total disability after partial ilisability, the other in vocational education of employees so injured as to need rehabilitation,
the use of the special funds for these purposes being additional
compensation to employees thus injured over and above that prescribed as the payments to be made. by their immediate employers. He/d:
(1) That the due process clause of th6 Fourieeth Amendment does
not require that this additional compensation be paid by the immediate employers of the employees to. be -benefited, nor prevent
the legislature from providing, for its payment out of general
funds created as above described. P. 376. Mountain Timber Co.
v. Washington, 243 U: S. 219.
(2)' The arrangement does not conflict with the equal protectioii
clause. P. 378.
236 N. Y. 579, affrmed.

