76

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Orders.

265 U. S.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUIMr

No. 15, Original. Orders entered May 5, 1924.
1. Order to show cause why prosecution of an action brought against
the receiver in this case should not be enjoined.
2. Order fixing time for filing suggestions, contentions, and arguments,
(1), respecting the distribution and incidence of receivership expenses, including those incurred, and losses sustained, from unremunerative wells; and, (2), respecting authority for receiver to
reimburse operators and drillers of wells in certain cases.
PER CURIAM.

It appearing from the twelfth report made by the receiver in this cause that an action recently was commenced
against him in the District Court of Wichita County,

Texas, by J. H. Duhon and H. J. Kebideaux to recover
from him certain moneys for the drilling of a river-bed
well, now known as No. 168 and also as Delta Well, which
had been drilled prior to the receivership; and it being
asserted that such action was commenced in disregard of
the exclusive jurisdiction of this Court over the said receivership and-the said receiver:
It is ordered that the said J.H. Duhon and H. J. Kebideaux'show -cause in this Court on Monday the 26th day
of May, 1924, why they should not be enjoined from prosecuting or maintaining the said action in the District Court
of Wichita County, Texas, unless in the meantime they
shall have dismissed that action and filed in this Court due
proof of such dismissal.
PER GURL4M.

After considering the twelfth report of the. receiver
herein and the earlier reports referred to therein, it is

OKLAHOMTA v. TEXAS.
76

77

Orders.

ordered that all parties in interest be accorded until and'
including the 23d day of May, 1924, to prepare and file
with the clerk in, printed form such suggestions, contentions and supporting arguments as they severilly may
desire to present respecting the following subjects:
1. The extent to which and the manner in which the
expenses of condudting and administering the receivership shall be spread over the several impounded funds in
the receiver's custody and'over the several areas and tracts
from which such funds were derived, and also the proportions in which such expenses shall be deducted from
the payments ultimately to be made to the several claimants who may be entitled to receive those funds from the
receiver.
1 2. The mode of distributing or disposing of expenses
incurred and losses- sustained in respect of wells which
have proved unremunerative.
3. Whether the order of June 1, 1921, [which] authorizes 'the receiver to make certain payments reimbursing
operators and drillers of river-bed wells (256 U. S. 607)
shall be changed and enlarged so as to include and-cover
xiver-bed wells which subsequently pro- ed to be unremunerative in instances where the same operator had
drilled- or was in process of dffling other river-bed wells
which have- proved productive and have yielded funds
from which such reimbursement may be made,-reference
being particularly had to wells numbered 149, 150, 151,
155, 161 and 163, described on pages nine and ten of the

Receiver's Tenth Report.
4. Whether the order of June 1, 1921, just mentioned,

shall be further changed and enlarged so as to include
and cover river-bed well No. 139, otherwise known as the

Burk-Senator Well.

