6CTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. S.

.Carriers'by water, such as appellee, are within the
terms of the Transportation Act for certain purposes;
e. g., for the- regulation of their accounts, the'making
of reports, the prevention of rebates, discrimination and
the like. Certain provisions.of the act- are apblicable to
some carriers and not to others. Interstate (Commerce
Commisio'n v. Goodrich, Tranit Co., 224 U. S. 194, 208.
The impositign of a duty upon a carrier by water to furnish transportation upon reasonable request does not
create an obligation to continue to operate boats on a
*particular route. The provision of subd. (18) above referred to is"specifically limited to lines of railroad. This
indicates legislative intention that carriers by water are
not required to continue andf may cease to operate if they
see fit.
No duty to continue to operate its boats on the Detroit
and Mackinac Island route is himposed on appellee by its
charter, the statutes of' Michigan, the common law or
federal statutes.
Decree affirmed.
ST. CLOUD PUBLIC SERVICE COMAANY v. CITY
OF ST. CLOUD.
APPEAL FROM THB DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNTED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINESOTA.

"No. 10. Argued 0ctober 2, 1923.-Decided May 26, 1924.
1. A. State may authorize a municipal corporation to establish by

contia'a the rates to be charged by a public service corporation
'for a definite term, not grossly unreasonable in time; and the
effect of such a contract is to suspend, during its life, the governmental power of tegulaiing the rates. P. 355.
2. Where a ijublic service corporation and a municipality, having
power to contract as to rates, exert it by fixing them. for a par-ticular time, the rates are enforceable under the obligation of the
-contract, even though they become " confiscatory.' Id.

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. ST. CLOUD.
352

353

Counsel for Parties.

3. In Minnesota, a city charter, by authorizing the- common council'
to provide for and control the erection and operation of gas
works for supplying the city and its inhabitants with heat and
light, and to grant the right to erect, maintain and operate such
works with all rights incident or pertaining thereto to one or more
private corporations, empowered the City to enterby ordinance
into & contract, in its Irmprietary capacity, with a private corporation, providing for the construction and operation of gas
works for the'period of thirty years, and fixing the rates for gas
sold the City and its inhabitants. P.. 359.
4. Where a municipality having both the power to contract-as to
rates and the -pwer to prescribe rates from tine to time, exer-cises the former, the power to regulate is suspended during the
contract, and the contract is binding. P. 360.
5. The provisions of the Minnesota Constitution, Art. IV, § 33,
prohibiting the legislature from enacting any special or private
laws for granting corporate powers or privileges, except to cities,
or 'for granting to any individual, association or corporation, except municipal, any special or .exclusive privilege, immunity or
franchise .whatever, do not apply to contracts made by municipalities under charter powers granted them b, the legislature.
Id...
6. An ordinance under which a gas company, in consideration of
rights and privileges granted, covenanted and agreed to erect and
operate a plant and sell gas, etc., and which contained a clause by
which the grantee was "authorized" to sell at npt to exceed a
price fixed-coMtrued as a contract fixing that as the inaximum
rate. P. 361.
7. A law authorizing cities to regulate rates of public service corporations, cannot be invoked by a. company to increase thi rates
fixed by its contract with a city before the law was enacted'
P. 364.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decreb of the District Court dismissing
for want of equity a bill brought by a gas company to
enjoin interference with a. proposed increase in its rates.
Mr. J. 0. P. Wheelwright for appellant.

Mr. R.-B. Brower for appellee.

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1923..
Opi.ion of the Court.

265 U. S.

MTR. JusTIcE SAmoD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the Public Service Company
to enjoin the City from. interfering with a prdposdd in*crease in the rates charged for fuel gas.
The allegations of the bill, shortly stated, are: The
Company is a publfc service corporation organised under
the"laws of Minnesota, and the City, a municipal cor-

.poration 4 that State. In 1905. the bity, by ordinance,
granted. the Cqmpany's predecessor, its successors and

assigns, the Tight to construct and maintain for thirty
years: works for the manufacture, distribution and sale
of gas to the City and its'inhabitants, and authorized
it to sell fuel gas at-a rate not exceeding $1.35 per thousand cubic feet. The grantee's rights were assigned to
the Company in 1915, and since then it has been engaged
in niamnufacturing. and selling fuel gas under the ordinance.1 -Sin& 1917 the Company has sold fuel gas at
the maximum-rate of $1.35 prescribed by the ordinance.
This rate has not yielded, and cannof yield a~ny returni
on the value of the property devoted to the gas business, has resulted in a constant loss and steadily increasing"operating deficit, is inadequate-and confiscatory, anct
deprives the* Company of its property without due
process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Anfend"ment to the Constitution.. The City*Commission has
refused to entertain a petition to prescribe a rate yielding a reasbnable return on the invested capital. To
secure a fair and reasonable return, a rate of $3.39 per
thousand- cubic feet is iiecessary. The Company intends
'The ordinance, also granted thb right to construct and maintain

for the same period works for the .manufacture and sale of electricity. The bill alleges that the gas and electric operations are
cojiducted as distinct and separate departments; and that neither

the'Company .nor its prededessor has ever sold gas except for fuel
purposes, there being no demand for illuminating gas.

-

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. ST. CLOUD.
352

355

Opinion of the Court.

to increase its rate to that price. The City, however,
has threatened to interfere with the collection of the
proposed increased rate, and, unless restrained, will attempt to force the Company to continue to sell gas at
the prescribed -maximum rate, resulting in controversies
and multiplicity of suits, and inflicting irreparable loss
and injury upon the Company.
The bill prays that the court adjudge that the maximum rate prescribed by the ordinance is confiscatory
and violates the rights of the Company under the Fourteenth Amendment; and' that the City be enjoined from
interfering with the Company in'raising the rate to $8.39,
or attempting in any manner to force it to continue to sell
gas at the ordinance rate.
A motion by the Company for a preliminary injunction was denied. Thereafter, on motion of the City, the
court dismissed the bill for want of equity, on the ground
that there was a "valid and subsisting contract between- the City and the plaintiff Company goveing the
matter of a maximum rate for fuel gas." The Company,
by reason of the constitutional question involved, has
appealed directly to this Court. Jud. Code, § 238; Columbus By.Co. v. Columbus, 249 U. S. 399.
It has been long settled that a State may authorize a
municipal corporation to establish by an inviolable contract the rates to be charged by a public service corporation for a definite term, not grossly unreasonable in time,
and that the.effect of such a contract is to suspend, during
its life, the governuiental power of fixing and regulating
the rates. Home Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.
265,- 273, and cases there cited. And where a public
service corporation 'and the municipality have power to
contract as to rates, aid exert that power by fixing the
rattes to govern during a particular time, the enforcement
of such rates is controlled by the obligation resulting
from the contract, and the question whether they are

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the.Court.

265 US.

"confisc tory is immaterial. Soutie* Iowa Elec. Co. v.
Chariton, 255 U. S. 539, 542, and cases there cited;
Paducahv. PaducahRy. Co., 261 U. S.267, 273; Georg&
Ry. Co. v. Decatur,262 U. S.-432, 438. The existence of
a bindig contract as to the -maximum rate for fuel gas
*is therefore. the controlling issue upon which this'controversy depends. Its solution turns upon the questions
whether the City had power to contract on this subject
by the. ordinance of .1905; and, if so, whether the ordinance. constituted such a contract.
1. Was the City authorized to enter into a contract as
to the rate to be charged.for fuel. gas? Such authority"
must dearly and unmistakably appear. Home TeZephone
Co. v. Los Angeles, sipra,p. 273; Paducah v. Paducah
By.Co., supra, p. 272. Whether it existed depends upon
the laws of Minnesota inforce at the time. . The consolidated charter of the Cityr (Special Laws of 1889, c. 6, p.
131) provided a4 follow: The City "shall be capable of
"contracting and being contracted with; and shall have all
the powers possessed by municipal corporations at common law." C. 1,§ 1. "The common council in adcftion
to all powers herein . . . specifically mentioned, shall
have full power and authority to make . . . all such
ordinances' . . . -for the general welfare of the city

and the inhabitants thereof, as they shall deem expedient." C. 4, § 4.. "'Ther common council shall have full
power by ordinance:

. . . To provide for and con-

trol the erection and operation of gas works, electric lights,
or other works or material for lighting the streets and
alleys, public-grounds, and buildings of said city, and sup-plying light and power to said city and its inhabitants;
and to grant the right'to erect, maintain and operate such
works, with all rights incident' or pertaining thereto, to
one or more private companies or corporations

.

r ;-

to provide for and control the erection and operation of
,works for heating the public -buildings of said city by

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. ST. CLOUD.
352

357

Opinion of the Couit.

steam, gas, or other-neans, and supplying light, heat,
and power to the inhabitants of said city; to grant the
right to erect such works and all incident rights to one
or more private companies or corporations, and to control and regulate the erection and operation of such
works . . ; provided, .
.
that .the conuon
council shall have authority to regulate and prescribe the
fees and rates and charges of any and all companies.
hereinbefore mentioned!' C. 4, § 5, cl. 10.
In construing and giving effect to'these provisions of
the charter we look to the decisions of the Supreme Court
of the State. In Reed v. City of Anokq, 85 Minn. 294,.'
297, 298 (1902) the city charter-likwise enacted in
1889--conferred iupon the municipality, the power "to
make and establish public pumps, wells, cisterns and hydrants, and to proiide for and control the erection of
waterworks. for t&e supplry of water for the city and its
inhabitants." The city, by ordinance, entered into a contract with individuals for the construction and operation
of a system of waterworks for such purposes, for a term
of thirty-one years: the city agreeing to pay the grantees
a specified sinim per year for each hydrant, and restrictions and limitations being imposed as to the charges to
be made by the grantees for water furnished the inhabitants. Ii3 a suit brought by taxpayers to enjoin the performance of this contract the court said, that there could
be "no doubt but that these charter provisions confer
upoli .the municipality authority to enter into contracts
with individuals for the purpose of providing itself and

its inhabitants with a supply of water. . . . The authorities are very uniform that contracts of this nature
are not within the legislative or governmental preroga,
its proprietives of the municipality, but rather within
tary or business powers. Their purpose is not to govern
the inhabitants, but to secure for them and for itself a
private benefit .
...
It was so held in . . .

358

OCTOBFR TEM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

lynr v. Little Falls E. & W. Co., 74 Minn. 180.' . . .
While this precise point of distinction was not made in
that case, it is authority for the proposition that-a municipality does not exercise its legislative functions in enter-ing into contracts of this kind, but only its business or
proprietary powers, to which the rules and principles of
law applicable to contracts and transactions between individuals apply." In City of St. Cloud v. Water Co., 88
Minn. 329, 332 (1903), there was navolved an ordinance.
passed by the present appellee in 1887, providing for the
sale of the City's waterwbrks to certain persons and granting- them the right to maintain the system for the period
of thirty years and to furnish water to its inhabitants ut
certain specified rates; in consideration of which the
grantees agreed to extend the system, to furnish water
without charge for certain purposes, and to supply a specifled amount of pure water for domestic purposes. The
priginal charter of the City (Special Laws of 1868, c. 28,
p. 144) made it capable of contracting, vested it with all
the general powers possessed by municipal corporations
at common law, and gave it the power of establishing and
constructing public pumps, wells, cisterns reservoirs and
hydrants. In a suit by the City to set aside the contract
entered into by the ordinance for failure-of the grantees
to furnish pure water in the stipulated quantities, the
court said: "The obligations of the parties, as set out in
the ordinance, constitute a contract. The city was enabled to enter into such obligation by virtue of its charter
powers and the general laws of the state, and was endowed
with the right to construct, or cause to be constructed,
a water system for the benefit of its inhabitants, and had
control of its streets, and could contract with reference to
their use for the purpose of extending the system . ..
The obligations thus entered into were mutual. - Upon
-the one hand, the grantees, their successors and assigns,
would be protected by the courts in the enjoyment of their

-PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. ST. CLOUD.
352

359

Opinion-of the Court.

rights,-for instance, in the collection of the hydrant
rentals; on the; other hand, the courts of the state are
open to the city to secure the enforcement of its rights.
No serious question can arise ag to. the nature of the contract obligation.

.

.

In the light of these decisions of the Supreme Court
of the State of Minnesota we think it is clear that the
City had authority, in 1905, under its charter and the
laws of the State, to enter, by ordinance, into a contract,
in its proprietary capacity and for the benefit of its inhabitants as well as itself, providing for the construction
and operation of gas works for a period of thirty years
and fixing the rates to be charged for gas sold t6 it and
*its inhabitants. This p6wer existed, under the doctrine
of the Reed Case, under the provisions of the charter
giving the council the power to provide for the control
and~erection of gas works for the purpose of supplying
the City and its inhabitants with heat and light. And we.
-do not think that this contractual power.was limited by
the proviso that the council should have the right to
"regulate and prescribe" the rates and charges of the
companies to. which it might grant the right of constructing such works. It is true that, standing alone,
this proviso, in the absence of any state decision to
the *contrary, would, under the construction given simila language in Home Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles,
supra, p. 274, be regarded as conferring authoifty merely
to exercise the governmental power of regulating rates,
and not authority to enter into a contract. In that case,
however, it was pointed out that there was no* other
provi ion of the charter authorizing the city to contract
as to rates. And in the present case, as the other provisions of the charter gave the City authority so to contract, we must regard the proviso as merely an alternative provision; that is to say, we think that the City
might either contract as to the rates, as an incident to its

360

-OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

power of granting the right to .construct and operate the
t5ublie utility, or, if it did not .exercise this power to
contract; might thereafter "regulate and- prescribe" the
rates in the exercise of ihe governmental authority conferred by the proviso. One power, however, is not destructive of the other. And where a municipality has
both the power to contract 4s to rates and also the power
to prescribe rates from'time -to tinie, if it exercises the
power to contract, its power to regulate-the rates during
the period of the contract is thereby suspeadedI, and
the -contract is binding. Paducah v. PaducakRy. Co.,
supra, pp. 272, 273.
We find nothing in conflict with our conclusion as to
the City's authority to contract'ii. Section 33 of Article
IV of the Minnesota Constitution, as amended in 1881,
providing that: "The Legislature is prohibited from
enacting agiy special or private laws in the- following
cases: . . . 7th. For granting corporate powers or
privileges, except to cities. . ..
10th. For granting
to any individual, association or corporation, except
municipal, an r special or exclusive privilege, immunity
or franchise whatever." " General Laws, 1881, p. 22.
Clauses 7 and 10 read together plainly, show that the
prohibition against the granting" of special or exclusive
privileges by the Legislature does not apply*to the granting of corporate powers or 'privileges to cities. It did
not prohibit the Legislature from granting to the City
by the consolidated charter- of 1889, tho power of contracting in its proprietary capacity in reference to the
construction and operation of gas works. If it had had
such an effect we cannot assume that it would have
been overlooked- by the Supreme Court of Minnesota in
the Reed Case, in which no reference was made to this
provision. It is unnecessary,- therefore, to consider
whether the provisions of the consolidated charter were
authorized as an amendment to the original charter of

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. ST. CLOUD.
352

3ol

Oliiniin of the Court.

1862. See Brady v. Moulton, 6i Minn. 185. This constitutional provision is obviously entirely different from
that*involved in San Antonio v. San Antonio Public
Service Co., 255 U. S. 547, 549, providing "that no

irrevocable or uncontrollable grant of special privileges
or immuffities shall be made, but all privileges and franchises 'granted by the legislature, or -created under its
authority, shall be subject to the control thereof," Which
was held to prevent a municipality,, acting under the
authority of the Legislature, from en'terig into a: bind"ing contract as to public service rates. The provision'
of the*Minnesota Constitution makes no reference either
to irrevocable or uncontrollable privileges, or to privilege created by a municipality acting under the authority Qf the Legislature and is,'as we view it, merely a
limitation upon thd direct authority of the Legislature
itself, to th.e extent that we have indicated.
Nor do we find anything in the Laws of 1893, d. 74,
p. 189 (General Statutes of 1913, § 6137) in conflict with
the conclusion which we have reached as to the power
of the City to contract as to rates.
2. Did the ordinance constitute a contract fixing the
maximum rate for gas? The intention to so. contract
must clearly and unmistakably- appear. Paducah v.
PaducahBy. Co., supra,p. 272. The essential provisions
of the ordinance are: The right and privilege is granted
to construct and maintain for thirty years works and instrumentalities for the manuffacture and distribution of
electricity and gas. § 1. The grantee is "authorized"
to manufacture and sell "electricity and gas to the City
and its inhabitants during such period. § 2: The construction shall be done with the least practicable inconvenience to the public and individuals, and the "grantee
shall restore" all places ;vhere exca ated ta their original
condition as far as practicable, and repair all damage
done by such excavation. § 3. In laying down pipes or

362

SOCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the CouV

265 U.S.

erecting wires the grantee "shall conform" to all .reasonable regulations prescribed by the City. § 4. "In
consideration of the rights and privileges heiein granted,
the grantee hereby coveniznts and agrees that it will .
-erect .. . . an efficient coal gas generating plarit or
system of ample capacity, and after the erection thereof
will manufacture and offer for sale to the city and its
inhabitants coal gas of at least fourteen candle power."
* § 5. "The grantee is authorized hereby to sell illuminating gas when the works therefor shall have been completed . . . at the price of not to exceed" $1.85 per

thousand cubic feet, "and fuel gas at the rate of not to
exceed" $1.35 per thousand cubic feet, and shall be at
liberty to cut off the supply from any person not paying
for a period of thirty days. § 6. "The rights hereby
granted are upon the express condition" that the City
may purchase the electric and gas works of the grantee
at specified intervaN at the appraised value -there6f, as
determined by arbitrators to be chosen in a prescribed
manner. § 7.
We think that the language of te ordinance,- viewed
in its entirety, clearly shows that it was the intention
of the parties to enter into a contract for the construction of gas works and the manufacture and supply of
gas to the City and its inhabitants during the thirtyyear period, at the maximum rate prescribed. Although
§ 6 "authorizing" the sale of fuel gas at a price not
exceeding $1.35, is not phrased in the language of an
agreement-as the preceding section whereby the grantee
"agreed" to construct, the plant and manufacture and
sell gas to the City and its inhabitants-it is an essential
"part of the agreement. It is no less contractual than
the provision in § 2 "authorizing" the grantee to manufacture and sell electiicity and gas to the City and its
inhabitants for thirty years-upon which the Company
necessarily relies as the basis of the rights which it now

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. -&.ST. CLOUD.'
352

.363 -

Opinion of the Court.

claims and is seeking to enforce-or than that in § 7
giving the City the tight to purchase the plant at an
appraised valie. The provision that the grantee is
"authorized" to sell fuel -gas at a rate not exceeding
$1.35, clearly implies that it shall not sell such gas at
a higher rate. This is recognized by the bill itself.2 In
this respect the language has the same effect as that involved in Vicksburg v. Waterworks Co., 206 U. S. 496,
508, 516. There the ordinance granted the right to make
such charges for the use of water as *thegrantees might
determine, provided that they should not exceed fifty
cents for each thousand gallons. This was held to constitute a binding contract fiting the maximum rates for
water supplied to private consumers for the period of
thirty years as set forth in the ordinance. So in Reed v.
City of Anoka, supora, p. 296, the ordinance imposed
"restrictions and limitations" upon the charges to be
made; and in City of St. Cloud v. Water Co., supra, p.
332, the ordinance "gave the right" to furnish water at
specified rates. And provisions in ordinances granting
franchises to street railway companies that the rate of
fare shall not be more than five cents, or that the grantee
shall not charge a higher fire, are contractual.' Detroit
v. Detroit C"tizens' $treet Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, 369;
Clevelamd v. Cleveland City Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517, 524;
Cleveland v. Cleveland Electric Ry. Co.; 201 "U.S. 529,
532; Jeorgia Ry. Co. v. D'ecatur, supra, p. 434. And
the fact that here the parties intended to contract as tothe gas rates is emphasized by the contrast between the
provisions of the ordinaice as to gas and -electricity.
While the grantee is authorized to maintain both gas and
'There are* repeated references in the bill to this provision as
faxing a maximum rate, thus: The "maximum rate fixed for the price
of gas in the ordinance," par. 36; and similar references to the "mximum rate" in pars. 39,41, 42 and 44, el. 1.

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S:

electric works for the period of thirty years, the ordinance
specifies the maximum rates for gas but contains no provision as to the rates for electricity; -the apparent purpose being to establish definitely by contract the maxi*mum rates for gas but to leave the rates for electricity to
be thereafter "regulated and prescribed" by the cduncil
from time to time under the power given it by the proviso
of the charter.
3. The general provision of the Laws of 1919, c. 469,.
p 603, authorizing cities of the class of the appellee
" through its city council or like governing body, by ordinance, to prescribe from time to time the rates which any
public service corporation supplying gas or electric current for lighting or power purposes within said city may
charge for such service", has no application to the present
case. Even if, in any aspect, it could otherwise be applicable, it is excluded from operating here by the specific
proviso that it shall not be "construed to impair the obligation of any contract or franchise provision now existing
between any such city and any such public service corporation." The City, clearly, could not avail itself of
this statute to reduce the gas rates below the mximum
prescribed in the contract of 1905; and the Company,
conversely, cannot under it obtain higher rates. The
contract is binding on both parties alike.
The decree of the District Court is

Affirmed.
Mra. JusrcE BuTLm took no part in the hearing or de-

.cisiox of this case.

