UNITED STATES v. FERRIS.

165

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. FERRIS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 217.

Argued April 8, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.

An.army officer was not " serving with troops operating against an
enemy," within the meaning of ยง 7 of the. Act of April 26, 1898,
c. 191, 30 Stat. 364, while exercising a command in a camp of
instruction in this country during the late war in Europe. P. 166.
57 Ct. Clms. 566, reversed.

APPFrvL from from a, judgment of ihe Court of Claims
which sustained the claim of an army officer for increased
pay and allowances.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr,Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for
appellee.
Mr. Morri n Shafroth, by leave of Court, filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
MR.CHmIF JusTcE, TArT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was a suit by.the plaintiff, a Lieutenant-Colonel
of Field Artilery, National Army, in the service of the
United States, to recover increased pay and allowances
for exercising a command as Colonel of Field Artillery
from August 27, 1917, to January 5, 1918. His action is

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

based on ยง 7 of the Act of Congress of April 26, 1898, c.
191, 30 Stat. 36, 365, as follows:
"That in time of war every officer serving with troops
operating against an enemy who shall exercise, under
.assignment in orders issued by competent authority, a
commind above that pertaining to his grade, shall be
entitled to receive the pay and allowances of the grade
appropriate to the command so exercised.
There is no dispute that the claimant is in every respect within the provision of this act except in the requirement that he was ' serving with troops operating against
an enemy." The Court of Claims held that this requirement was complied with, and gave judgment. 57 Ct.
Clms. 566. The counsel for the Government oppose this
view and seek by this appeal to reverse the judgment.
The claimant exiercised his command as Colonel over
the 315th Field Artillery, which was part of the 80th
bivision of the National Army. The division was organized and trained at Camp Lee, Virginia, and later on became a part of the American Expeditionary Force and
engaged in action with the enemy.
During the whole period from August 22, 1917, to
January 5, 1918, in which the claimant acted as Colonel,
the regiment was stationed at Camp Lee, Petersburg,
Virginia, and this camp was used as a camp if instruction.
Was this officer serving with troops operating against
an enemy? The requirement is that the service shall not
only be in time of war, but also with troops operating
against the enemy. Trqops in instruction camps across
the ocean from the field of war can not in any proper
sense be held to be operating against the enemy. Camp"
instruction is doubtless a necessary preliminary step to
effective operation against the enemy, but it does not
constitute such operation. This act was passedl during
the Spanish War and the Court of Claims rested its con-

UNITED STATES v. FERRIS.
165

Opinion of the Court.

clusion on the opinion of the Attorney General, 22 Ops.
Atty. Gen. 95, in which he held that troops assembled in
camps of instruction in the United States were to be considered as operating against an enemy under the statute..
We think that the construction is so at variance with
the ordinary meaning of the language that we can not
follow it. It can hardly be said to have become the
basis for c. long executive construction and practice, because the Spanish War was soon over and the question of
its application did not arise until the recent great war.
We agree with the opinion of the Paymaster General in
1898 in this matter. He said:
"1As"yet, although war has been declared to exist between Spain and the United States, there are, in my
opinion, with the exception of the troops embarked for
the Philippine Islands, no troops 'operating against an
enemy'. There is, within our borders, no enemy, within
the meaning of the law, for troops to operate against.

An army has been called together, and is being drilled,
disciplined, and prepared t6 operate .against an dnemy,
but until that army embarks for a foreign county, or
until an enemy appears on our shores, and the army confroits it, it is held that no officer can receive the pay of f
higher grade by virtue of anything in the act referred to."

The judgmeht of the Court of Claims is reversed.

