LYNCH v. TILDEN CO.
Statement of the Case.

LYNCH, EXECUTRIX OF LYNCH, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE, DECEASED, v. TILDEN
PRODUCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI. TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 139. Argued January 25, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
1. The Act of May 9, 1902, c. 784, § 4, 32 Stat. 193, defines adulterated butter, in part, as" any butter in the manufacture or manipulation of which any process or material is used with intent or
effect of causing the absorption of abnormal quantities of water,

milk, or cream" Held:
(a) That the mere fact that butter contains 16% or more of moisture
does not bring it within the statutory definition. P. 320.
(b) A regulation made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
and appioeved by the Secretary of the. Treasury declaring that any
butter having 16% or more of moisture is adulterated, conflicts
with the above statutory definition, and is void. Id.
2. Section 20 of the Act of August 2, 1886, c. 840, 24 Stat. 212, which
empowered the Commissioner of Intefnal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to make all needful rules
and regulations for the carrying of that act into effect, was

made applicable, by the above Act of 1902, to manufacturers of
"adulterated butter," only in respect of the marking, branding,
identification and regulation of exportation and impoltation.
P. 321. "
3. Rev. Stats., § 251, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury- to
prescribe rules and regulations not inconsistent with law to be used
under and in the execution and enforcement of the internal revenue
laws, does not sustain a regulation defining "adulterated butter"
which eliminates*conditions, words and phrases contained in the
statutory. definition, and substitutes others. P. 321.
282 Fed. 54, affirmed.
CERTIoRARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals afrming a -judgment of the District Court for the

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

265 U. S.

present respondent, in its action to recover an amount
it was compelled to pay the Collector. as stamp
taxes, on butter seized by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue.
Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt,"ANssistant Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for petitioner.
It was error for the appellate court to construe the word
effect" as necessarily lroceeding from a rational agent.
The mental element can be wholly lacking.
Congress in using these words obviously intended to
cover two phases of 9peration in connection with the
manufacture of adulterated butter, 'to wt: (a) Where'
the law is violated by intent. or design, and (b) where
the law is violated as a result of carelessness, ignorance,
or greed. The purpose of the law is to prevent deception and to insure that a buyer will get value-for money
spent.
When it is showh that.bntter offered for sale is found
to contain 16 per cent. or more of .moisture, a greater
moisture content than is found to be the average water
content, this indicates that in the manufacture or manipulation of the butter some process or material is used with
-theintent or the effect of causing it to absorb an abnormal
quantity of moisture. It is just as much a violation of
the la for t~ae.butter-maker to fail to manipulate the
butte sufficiently after many washings andbthereby leave
an excessive moisture content in the product which
he"offers for sale as it. is for-him cunningly to devise
and use a process..to inject undue moisture into the
buter.
Congress has delegated the power to make" Regulation
No. 9 by. express enactment. Act of May 9, 1902; Act
of August 2, 1886; Rev. Stats., §§ 251; 3447. It is well

-

LYNCH v..TILDEN CO.
315

317'

Opinion of the Court.

established that Congress can submit the decision of contested matters of fact, on the determination of which
hinges the application of the law, to an administrativeofficial, and Congress has the power to make such administrative official's decision thereon final. Fong Yve Ting
v. United States, 149 U. S. 698; Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v. )United States, 204

U. S. 364.
IA the absence of express delegation, that authority by
necessary implication has been delegated.. United States
v: Bailey, 9 Pet. 238; Coopersvlle Creamery Co. v.
Lemon, 163 Fed. 145.
In declaring that 16 per cent. of moisture in butter is
an abnormal quantity, the Commissioner - of Internal
Revenue did no- more than to state and eAablish -a
scientific fact concurred in by th6 Departments of Agriculture and Treaiury.
: Congress specifically provided that the Commissioner's
finding on a question of fact on matters of taxation undkr
the Adulterated Butter Act is final. Act of 1886,-§ 14,
incorporated in Act bf 1902.
Conceding that Regulation No. 9 is not a conclusive
determination of what constitutes an abnormal moisture
in butter, the question of fact should have been submitted

to the jury.
Mr. George W. Peterson, with whom Mr. William H.
Oppenheimer, Mr. Frederick N. Dickson and Mr. Frank.
C. Hodgson were on the brief, for responclent.
MR. JusTIcE BuTLmR delivered the opinion of the Court.

This action was brought in the United States District
Court for Minnesota by the Tilden Produce Company
against petitioner's testator, E. J. Lynch, Collector of Internal Revenue for the District of Minnesota, to recover

318"'

OCTOBER TERM, .1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

$936 stamp taxes, which it was compelled to pay on 9360
pounds of butter seized as adulterated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. At the trial, a verdict was
directed in favor of the company, and judgment was
entered for the amount paid with interest. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment.

282 Fed. 54.

The case is here on certiorari under § 240 of the Judicial
Code. 260 U. S. 718.
The question for decision is whether the butter was
adulterated within the meaning of the Act of May 9,1902,
c.784, 32 Stat. 193.
In 1918, the company manufactured in its creamery at
Saint Paul, 350 tubs of butter, which it shipped to Chicago. At the time it was made, the company tested the
butter and found the moisture content to range between
15 and 16 per cent., and the average to be 15.68 per cent.
Samples were taken at "Chicago, and tested under the
direction of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. It
was found that the moisture content of the butter in 156
tubs was 16 per cent. or more, that the range was between
16 and 17.93 per cent., and that the average was 16.76
per pent. The butter was made by the Company by
methods generally followed in the manufacture of butter
in creameries. It was shown by the evidence that the
moisture content in butter varies greatly; that the variation ranges froi 9 to over 20 per cent., and that there is
no fixed standard. The moisture content of milk is over
90 per cent. and of cream over 60 per cent. The making
of butter involves the segregation of the fat and the elimination of water. After churning and draining off buttermilk, it is the general practice of buttermakers to use

water to wash out curd and -liquids remaining in association with the butter. While some of the water used for
that purpose may remain, washing usually lessens the
total rhoisture. Within certain limits, buttermakers are
able to control water content. It is tested while the butter

LYNCH v. TILDEN CO.
315

319

.Opinion of the Court.

is in the churn. It may be reduced by manipulation, or
watei may be incorporated into or mixed with the butter
so as to increase the water content, by working the butter
under conditions calculated to accomplish that. purpose.
In practice, makers sometimegreduce or increase moisture
content in orderto meet competition in the market.
Adulterated butter, as defined by §4 of the Act of May.
9, 1902, includes: (1) a grade produced by treatment of
different lots of butter to which a chemical or other substance is added to deodorize it or to remove rancidity;" (2)
a butter product with which is mixed a foreign subitance
to lessen its cost; and (3) "any butter in the manufacture
or manipulation of which any process or material is used
with intent or effect of causing the absorption of abnormal
quantities of water, milk, or cream."
In 1907, the Commissioier of Internal Revenue, with
the approval of th6 Secretary of the Treasury, promulgated Regulations No. 9, which contain the following:
"Adulterated Butter Defined: The definition of adulterated butter as contained in the *act of May 9, 1902,
embraces butter in the manufacture of which any process
or material is u.sed whereby the product is made to 'contain abnormal. quantities of water, milk or cream,' but thenormal content of moisture permissible is not fixed by the
act. This being the case it becomes necessary to adopt a
standard for moisture in butter., which shall in effect
represent the normal quantity. It is therefore held that
butter having 16 per cent. or more of moisture contains an
classed as adulterated butter."
abnormal quantity and isPetitioner contends that the promulgation of this regulation is authorized by § 20 of the Act of August 2, 1886,
c. 840, 24 Stat. 209, 212, and Rev. Stats., § 251. It is
provided by § 20 that, "the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of -theTreasury, may make all needful regulations for the:carrying
into effect of this act." To a limited extent, this section

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

was made applicable to the Act of May 9, 1902, by §.4
thereof, which provides that it "shall apply to manufacturers of ' adulterated butter' to an extent- necessary to
enforce the marking, branding, identification, and regulation of the exportation and importation of adulterated
butter." Revised Statutes, § 251, authorizes the Secretary
of tle Treasury to "prescribe . . . rules and regulations, not inconsistent with law, to be used under and in
the execution and enforcement of the various provisions
of the internal-revenue laws;" and to "give such directions to collectors and 'prescribe such rules . . . as
may be necessary for the proper execution of the
..
law;
The mere fact that the butter contains 16 per cent. or
more of moisture does not bring it within the terms of the
statutory definition of adulterated butter.. Under the
definition in § 4, there must be something in the manufacture or manipulation of the butter causing the absorption
of abnormal quantities of water, milk or cream. This
must result from the use of some material or process.
The use must be with intent to cause such absorption, or
must be calculated to produce that result. "Absorption"
should be read to include the introduction of moisture
from the outside and the incorporation of water into the
butter, whether it is technicdlly an absorption or not.
Obviously, it des not include moisture originally contained in the cream or butter. The act does not prescribe
the amount of moisture permissible or fix any rule or
-criterion by which to determine the amount that is deemed
"abnormal" or that lawfully may be absorbed and incorporated.
The regulation makes water content the sole test of
adulteration, without regard to other provisions of the
act. In.support of its validity, it is said that, in declaring
16 per cent. of moisture in butter is abnormal, the regulation does no more than to establish a scientific fact. But

LYNCH v. TILDEN CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

it goes beyond that, and declares such buttel to be adulterated. It omits essential elements of the statutory
definition: namely, the use of a process or material in the
manufacture of the butter, and the causing of absorption,-i. e., the incorporation or'talng in from the outside,-of abnormal quantities of moisture.
Congress has not delegated power or authority to make
such a regulation. Section 20 of the Act of August 2,
1886, does not apply. It is made applicable only-in respect of the marking, branding, identification and regulation of exportation and importation of adulterated butter;
it does not authorize a regulation establishing what shall
be deemed to constitute excessive moisture or the- "absorption of abnormal quantities of water, milk, or cream";
it grants no power to add to or take from the statutory
definition: of adulterated butter. Section 251 of the Revised Statutes confeis upon the Secretary of the Treasury
authority .to make certain rules and regulations, but it
grants no power to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
alone. To make any regulation by him on the subject
effective, it must be approved by the Secretary, in which
event it really becomes a regulation of the latter. Moreover, the rules and regulations authorized by § 251 are
required to be "not inconsistent with law." The regula•tion prescribes a sfandard which Congress has not authorized the Commissioner or the Secretary to fix. It sets up
a definition of adulterated butter which conflicts with that
contained in the act. The two cannot be read in harmony.
If given effect, the regulation would eliminate from the
definition of adulterated butter the conditions specified in
the act and strike out words and phrases and substitute
others for them. In effect, it would depart from and put
aside the statutory definition. In some of the lower courts
the regulation has been held invalid. United States v.
11,150 Pounds of Butter, 195 Fed. 657, affirming 188 Fed.
157; Baldidn Co-operative Creamery Association v.

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U. S.

Williame, 23 Fed. 607; Herningsen. Produce Co. v.
Whal.', 238 Fed. 650. But in Coopersvllle Co-operative
Creamery Co. v. Lemon, 163 Fed. 145, it was held valid.
We think that decision fails to take into account and give
proper weight to the conflict between ihe act and the
regulation; See Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; United
-States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677; In. re Kollbck, 165 U. S.
526; Buttfield v. Stranahan,,'192U. S. 470; Williamson v.
United States, 207 U. S. 425; United States v. Grimaud,
220 U. S. 506. It must he held thai the regulation is
invalid.
The act does not prescribe any standard for moisture in
butter. In its manufacture, the variation of moisture
ranges above as well as below the quantities found i' the
butter in question, and its moisture content cannot be
said to be "abnormal". It was made in the usual way.
*There was no process or niaterial used with intent or effect
of causing absorption of abnormal quantities of moisture.
It was not adulterated within the meaning of the act.

Judgment affirmied.
SWENDIG ET:-AL. v. WASHINGTON WATLER
POWER COMPANY.
APPFAL .FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No.. 142. Argued February 21, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.
1. The Adt of Iarch 3, 1901, providing for granting rights of way

for telephone lines, does not apply to wires strung on the poles of
an eletric power line and used only in connbciion with its operation and maintenance. P. 327.
2. The Act of February 15, 1901, authorizes the Secretary of the In-

terior, under general regulations to be fixed by him, to permit the
use of~rights of way through the public lands, reservations and certain parks,, for electric power lines, eta., .and declaes that such

