OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

144

Syllabus.

265 U. S.

HECHT ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. MALLEY, FORMER
COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.

HOWARD ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. MALLEY, FORMER COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE
HOWARD. ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. CASEY, FOR-

MER ACTING

COLLECTOR

OF INTERNAL

REVENUE.

CROCKER ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. MALLEY, FORMER COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CFRTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FCE THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Nos. 99, 100, 101, 119. Argued May 3, 1923.--Decided May 12,1924.
1. The special excise taxlaid by the Revenue Act of 1916 on "'every
corporation, joint-stock company or association, now'or hereafter
organized in the United States for profit and having a capital stock
represented by shares, and every insurance company, now or hereafter organized under the laws of the United States, or any State or
Territory' did not apply to associations, such as "Massachusetts
Trusts," not organized under, or deriving any quality or benefit
from, a statute. Eliot v. Freeman,220 U. S.178. P. 151.
2. In adopting language used in an earlier act, Congress must be regarded as adopting also the construction given that language by
this Court. P. 153.
3. The special excise laid by § 1000 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1918
(40 Stat. 1057) on every " dome- Ie corporation,'--the act (§ 1)
defining the term "corporation" as including "associations, jointstock companies, and insurance companies," and the term " domstic," when applied to a corporat'on or partnership, as meaning
"created or organized in the United States,'--extends to organizations exercising the privilege of doing business as associations under
the common law. P. 154.
4. Organizations, known as " Massachusetts Trusts," created by trust
agreements, whereby property was conveyed to and managed in
business operations by trustees, the shares of the ce-stuf que trutent
being represented by transferable c9rtificates entitling holders to

HEOHT v. MALLEY.
144

145

Opinion of the Court.

share ratably in the income and, upon termination of the trust, in
the proceeds of the property, held "associations" created or organized in the United States and engaged in business, within the meaning of the Revenue Act of 1918, supra, loc. cit. Crocker v. Malley,

249 U.-S. 223, distinguished. P. 156.
5. The Revenue Act of 1918 bases the special excise tax of a domestic
association upon the average value of its "capital stock" includ,Id, that, in the absence of a
ing surplus and undivided profits.
fixed share capital, the "capital stock" is the net value of the
property owned by the association and used in its business. P. 162.

6. Where taxes were unlawfully assessed under the Revenue Act of
1916, and paid under protest, the Governme'nt was eititled to retain the money in part satisfaction of a lawful. retroactive assess-

ment for the same period under the Revenue Act of 1918. P. 163.
281 Fed. 363, affirmed in part and -reversed in part.
CERTiORAPm to judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed judgments of the District Court in
favor of the present petitioners, in their actions to recover
moneys paid, under protest, *asspecial excise taxes.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen, with whom Mr. William H.
Dunbarand Mr. Allison L. Newton were on the brief, for
petitionersin Nos. 99, 100 and 101,
Mr.Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the briefs, for respondents.
Mr. HarrisonM.. Davis, with whom.Mr. Feliz Rackemann was on the brief, for petitioners in No. 119.
MR. JusTice SAwzou delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These four cases, which were heard together, involve
the question whether the trustees of three "Massachusetts
Trusts" are subject to the special excise taxes imposed
upon certain "associations" by the Revenue Act of 1916

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

(39 Stat. 756, c. 463), and the Revenue Ac of 1918' (40
Stat. 1057, c. 18), based upon the value of their capital
stock.
The petitioners in Case No. 99 are the trusteed of the
"Hecht Real Estate Trust"; in Nos. 100 and 101, the

trustees of the "Haymake Trust".; and in No. 119, the
trustees of the "Crocker, Burbank & Co. Ass'cn." -xcise
. taxes were assessed: against them under these acts and
paid under protest.' They then brought suits for refund

*in the Federal District Court in Massachusetts, and had
recoveries. 276 Fed. 830. The judgments in their favor
*were reversed by the Circuit Court of, Appeals. 281 Fed.'
363z And these writs of certiorari .were granted'.. '260
U. S. 715, 717.
The "'Massachusetts Trust" is a fdrm of. business
"organization,
common in that State,' consisting essentially
of' an arrangement . wherebkr property is conveyed to
trustees, in accordance with the terms of an instrument

of trust, t be held and managed for the benefit of such
persons as may from time to time be the holders of
transferable certificates -issued by the tiustees shoting
.the shares into.which the beneficial interest in the.prop-The date of this Act is February 24 1919.
'In No. 99 the trtstees of the Hecht Trust were assessed under
the Act of 1916 with tax--s for the six naonths'ending June 30, 1917,
anu the.year ending June 30, 1918; and under the Act of 1918 for
the years ending June 30, 1919, and June 30, 1920. In No. 100 the
trustees of the Haymarket Trust'were assessed 'under the Act of
* 1916 with a tax for the year 6nding June 30, 1919; and in No. 101
they were assessed under the Act of 1918 with an additional tax for
.the year ending June 30, 1919, aiud a tix for the year ending June
30, 1920. In No. 119 the trustees of the Croaker Association were
assez ed under the Act of 1916 with a tax for the year ending June 30;
1919, and under the Aci of '1918 with n additional.tax for'.the same
.year.
'Such trusts also exist in other States. See generally, as to their'
characteristics, Sears' "Thut Estates as Business Companies," and
Wrightington's "Unincorporated Associations."

HECHT v. MALLEY.
144

147

Opinion of the'Court.

erty is divided. These certificates, which resemble certificates for shares of stock in a corporation and are issued
and transferred in like manner, entitle the holders to
share ratably in the income of the property, and, upon
termination of the trust, in the proceeds.
Under the Massachusetts decisions these trust instruments are held to create either pure trusts or partnerships,
according to the way in which the trustees are to conduct
the affairs committed to their charge. *If they are the
principals and are free from the control of the certificate
holders in the management of the property, a trust is
created; but if the certificate holders are associated together in the control of the property as principals and the
trustees are merely their managing agents, a partnership,
relation between the certificate holders is created. Williams v. Milton, 215 Mass. 1, 6; Frostv. Thompson, 219
Mass. 360, 365; Danav. Treasurer,227 Mass. 562. 565;
Priestleyv. Treasurer,230 Mass. 452, 455.
These trusts-whether pure trusts or partnerships-are
unincorporated. They are not organized under any
statute; and they derive no power, benefit or privilege
from any statute. The Massachusetts sfatutes, however,
as " assorecognize their existence and impose upon them,
4
liabilities.
and
obligations
ciations," certain
The Hecht Real Estate Trust was established by the
members of the Hecht family upon real estate in Boston
used for.offices and business purposed, which they owned
as tenants in common. It -is primarily a family affair.
The certificates have no par value; the shares being for
4By

a. 441 of the Acts of 1909, the trustees of "a voluntary association under a witten instrument or declaration of trust the beneficial
interest under which is divided into transferable certificates of participation or shares," are required to file copies df the instrument of truL'
with designated *public officers; and by c. 184 of the Acts of 1916,
such associations may be sued for debts, obligations, or liabilities, and
their property may be subjected to attachment and execution as if
tey were corporations. See 2 General Laws, 1921, a. 182.

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

one-thousandths of the beneficial interest. They are
transferable; but must be offered to the trustees before being transferred to any person outside of the family. The
trustees have full and complete powers of management;
but no power to create any liability against the certificate
holders. There are no meetings of certificate holders; but
they may, by written: instrument, increase the number of
trustees, remove a trustee, appoint a new trustee if there
be none remaining, modify the declaration of trust in any
particular, terminate the trust, or give the trustees any
instructions thereunder.
The Hlaymarket Trust is strictly a business enterprise.
It was established by the original subscribers who furnished the money for the purchase of a building in Boston
used for store and office purposes. The shares are of the
par value of $100 each. Except as otherwise restricted,
the trustees have general and exclusive powers of management, but no power to bind the certificate holders personally. At any annual or special meeting of the certificate holders, they may fill any vacancies in the number of
trustees, denose any or all the trustees and elect others in
their place, authorize the sale of the property or any part
thereof, and alter or amend the agreement of trust.
The Crocker, Burbank & Co. Ass'cn. is also a business
enterprise. It was formerly entitled The Wachusett
Realty. Trust. The certificates have no par value; the
shares being for ninety-six thousandths of the beneficial
interest in the property. The trustees originally held the
fee of certain lands subject to a long lease and the stock of
a Massachusetts corporation engaged in manufacturing
paper and owning and operating several mills. In Crocker
v. Malley, 249 U. S. 223 (1919), in which the original trust
instrument was before the Court, it was held that the trustees were not subject as to the dividends received from
the corporation to the tax imposed by the Income Tax
Act of 1913 upon the net income of "every corporation,

HECHT v. MTALLEY.
144

Opinion of the Court. "

joint-stock company or association, . . . organized in
the United States"' but wore subject only to the duties
imposed by the Act upon trustees. The original trust
agreement involved in that case has now, however, been
modified, with the assent of the certificate holders. By
this modification "the form of (the) organization" was
specifically "changed to that of an associationi" undei
its present name. The trustees were authorized to surrender the stock of the manufacturing corporation, to acquire instead its entire propertX, and to carry on the business theretofore conducted by it, or any substantially similar business. The title to all the trust property "and the
right to conduct all the business" were vested exclusively
in the trustees, who were authorized to designate from
their number a president and other officers and to prescribe their duties. The certificate holders were authorized, at any meeting, to removeany truste&and elect trustees to fill any vacancies. Since the modification of the
trust agreement the trustees have carried on the manufacturing business in substantially the same manner as it was
formerly conducted by the corporation.
To determine rightly the scope and effect of the
Revenue Acts now in question it is necessary to bear in
mind the previous legislation on the same subject, and the
interpretation given it by the decisions of this Court.

Section 38 of the Act of August 5, 1909, c. 6,36 Stat. 11,
112--commonly-called the Corporation Tax Law-provided: " That every corporation, joint stock company or
association, organized for profit and having a capital stock
represented by shares, and every insurance company, now
or hereafter organized under the laws of the United States
or of any State or Territory . . . , or now or hereafter
organized under the laws of any foreign country and engaged in business in any State or Territory of the United
States . . . shall be subject to pay annually a special
excise tax with respect to the carrying on or doing busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

ness

.
.
. equivalent to one per cenitum upon the entire net income over and above five thousand dellars re; or if organized
ceived by it from all sources . ...
under the laws of any foreign country, . . . from

business transacted and capital invested within the United
"5
States and its Territories..
In Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107 (1911), the
Court, in sustaining the constitutionality of this.section
of the Act, said that the domestic corporations, joint stock
companies or associations, as well as the insurance companies, "must be such a4 axe now or hereafter organized
under the laws of the United States or of any State or
Territory", and that the tax was imposed "upon the
doing of business with the advantages which inhere in the
peculiarities of corporate or joint stock organizations of.
the character described", that is, "upon the exercise of

the privilege of'doing business in a.corporate capacity, as
such business is done under authority of state franchises."
In Eliot v. Freeman,220 U. S. 178, 185 (1911), it was
held that this excise tax did not apply. to two typical
Massachusetts trusts.* The Court said: "Under the terms
of the Corporation Tax Law,. corporations and joint stock
associations must be such'as are 'now or hereafter organized under the laws of the United States or of any State
or Territory.

.

.

The language

'

. . . 'now or

hereafter organized under the laws of the United States,'
etc., imports an organization deriving power from stat:.
ufory enactment.

.

.

..

The description of the cor-

poration or.joint stock association as one organized under
the laws of a State at once suggests that they are such
as are the creation of statutory law, from which they
derive their powers and are qualified to carry on their
operations...

. Entertaining the view that it was the..

,Provisions referring to Alaska and the District of Columbia and.

t6 certain deductions, which are immaterial for present purpoaes, are-oinitted in this and subsequent citations.

HECHT v; MALLEY.
144

151

Opinion of the Court.

intention of Congress to embrace with& the -corporation
tax statute only such corporations and joint stock associations as are organized under some statute, or derive
from that source somb quality or benefit not existing at
the iommon law, we are of opinion'that the real estate.
trusts involved in these two cases are not within the
terms of the act!'
We come now to the consideration of the Acts involved.
in the present cases.
1. Revenue.Act of 1916.-Section 407, Title IV, of
this Act provides (39 Stat. 789) that: "Every corporation,
joint-stock company or associati6n, now. or hereafter
*organized in the United States for profit and having a
.capital stock represented by shares, and every insurance
company, now or hereafter organized'under the laws of
the United States, or any State or Teritory ... , shall
pay annually a special excise tax with respect to the:
carrying on-br doing business . . . ,.-equivalent to
50 cents for each $1,000 of the fair value of its capital
stock," includng the surplus and undivided profits, butless an exemption of $99,900 from the capital stock.
Aild, in'a separate paragraph, that "Every corporation,
joint-stock company or association, or insurance company,
now or' hereafter organized for profit under the laws of
any foreign country and engaged in business in the ltnited
States shall pay annually -e'special excisqtx .
.
equivalent to 50 cents for each $1,000 of the capital actually .invested.in the transaction df its business in the'
United States."'
Section 10, Title I, also piovides that there .shall be
paid annually a tax of two per centum, upon the net
income-received "by every corporation; joint-stock conlany-'ot associatiori,'"or insurance company, organized-in
the United States, no matter how created or organized."'
The bill as introduced in the House of .Representatives
contained this provision for an income tax, but no iro-

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

vision for an excise tax. It was amended m the Senate
so as-to impose on every corporation, joint-stock company
or association, as defined and limited in § 10, Title I,
that is, "organized in the United States, no matter how
created or organized", a special tax of 50 cents for each
$1,000 "of capital, surplus and undivided profits used in
any of the activities or functions of their business." The
Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, in reporting the bill with this amendinent, referred to it as "imposing a small tax upon corporations in the nature of a
license tax for doing business." The House, however, did
not agree to this amendment. And later, pursuant to the
report of a Conference Committee, there was inserted in
the bill in lieu of the Senate amendment, the provision
for a special excise tax now contained in § 407 of the Act,
in which the words "no matter how created or organized"
were omitted, and the words "organized under the laws
of the United States, or any State or Territory", which
had been contained in the Act of 1909, were inserted.
64th Cong. 1st sess., H. R. 16763, and Sen. Rep. No. 793,
Pt. 1, p. 2; 53 Cong. Rec., Pt. 11, p. 10663, and Pt. 13,
p. 14020.
It thus appears that Congress intended to make a clear
distinction between the provisions relating to the income
tax and to the excise tax, and purposely framed them, as
shown by the amendment incorporated in the bill before
its final passage, so that while the income tax provision
should apply to all domestic corporations, joint-stock
companies- or associations, no matter how created or
organized, the dxcise tax provision should only apply to
such as"were organized under statutory law.. See United
States v. Press Publishing Co., 219 U. S. 1, 13; United
States v. St. PaulRailway, 247 U. S. 310, 318.
The words, "now or hereafter organized under the laws
of the United States, or any State or Territory ", appear in
the Act of 1916 in precisely the same place with 'reference

BECHT v. MAILLEY.
144

Opinion of the Court.

to the preceding words "every corporation, joint-stock
company or association" as in the Act of 1909, and. are
separated from them in like manner by the phrase "and
every insurance company", followed by the like comma'.
And it is clear that in the intermediate phrase "now or
hereafter organized in the United States for *rofit and
having a capital stock represented by shares",, the words
"in the United States" were inserted in the Act of 1916
after the word "organized" merely by reason of the fact
that this Act refers to domestic and foreign corporations,
joint-stock companies and associations in two separate
paragraphs instead of in the same paragraph as in the Act
of 1909. The: words "organized in the United States"
have no different effect, as applied to domestic corporations, joint-stock companies and associations; from the
word "organized" as used in the Act of 1909, and in no
wise remove the ensuing general limit.tion 'that they
must be such as are "organized under the laws of the
United States, or any State or Territory."
And since these limiting words, when used in the Act
of 1909, had been held by this Court, in Eliot v. Freeman,
to show the intention of Congress to embrace within the
statute only such corporations and joint-stock associations
as "are organized under some statute, of derive from that
source some quality or benefit not existing at the comon
law," they must be given the same meaning and: effect
when used in the Act. of 1916. In "adoptingthe laalguage
used in an earlier act, Congress must be considered to
have adopted-also the construction given by this Court to
such language, and made it a part of the enactment.
Session v. Romadka, 145 U. S. 29, 43; Latimerv.Wldted

States, 223 U. S.501, 504. And here the legislative historiP
of the excise tax provision of the "Act of 1916, and the
marked contrast between its language and that of tihe"

"
income tax provision of 'the same Act, plainly show;.Ae
from this rule of statutory construction, that this is what
Congress in fact intended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Coirt.

265 U. S.

We conclude that as the trusts involved in these four
cases are not organized under any statute and derive from
such source no quality pr benefit, they are not within the
terms of the excise tax provision of the Act of 1916.
2. Revenue Act of 1918.-Section 1 of this Act provides (40 Stat. 1057). that when used in the Act-the"term 'corporation' includes associations, joint-stock
companies, and insurance companies"; the "term 'domes'*tic' when applied to a corporation or partnership means
ireaed 'or organizn in the United States"; and the
"term ' foreign' . . . means created or organized
outside
the United States
*Section
1000(a) provides that in lieu of the tax imposed."
by § 407 of the Revenue Act of.1916---" Every domestic
corporation.shall pay antually a special excise tax with
respect to carrying on .or doing business,6 equivalent to
$1 for each $1,000 of so much of the fair average value
of its capital stock for the.preceding year," including .the
surplus and-undivided profits, as is in excess of $5,000;
and every "foreign corporation shall pay annually a
special excise tax with respect to carrying on or doing
brusiness ind the United States, equivalent to $1 for each
$1,000 of the average-amount of capital employed in the
in the United States during
transaction of its business
7
the preceding year"
By § 1400(a), Title IV of the Revenue Act of 1916including § 407 relating to 'excise taxes-is specifically
repealed, except.for the.assessment and collection of taxes
accrued thereunder and the imposition and collection of
'
•penalties and forfeitures.
Reading together the defining and enacting sections of
the Act it is as if § 1000(a)-provided in trms that: .Every
Sub-stion (c) provides flat the tax imposed by this s'ection hallnot apply in any yeai to any corporation' which is not engaged in

business.
TThese excise tax provisions of the Revenue Act of 1918 axe regnacted, in like terms, in the Pvenue Act of 1921, 4. S.tat. 227, 294.

HECHT v. MALLEY.
.144

OpHion of the Court.

corporation, association, joint-stock company and insur-

ance company, "created or organized-in the United
States ", shall pay a; special excisetax, as prescribed, with
respect to the carrying on or doing business. And it must
be given effect as thus read.
The terms of this Act are in marked and significant contrast with those of the Acts of 1909 and 1916.. Not only
is the Act of 1916 peifically repealed, but the well-defined words of limitaion.'' organized under the laws of the
United. States, -or any State or Territory", that had been
used in that-Act as-well as in the Act of 1900, are omitted;
and in lieu th&eof the excise tax is extended, broadly, to
every "assiation " created or organized in the United
States' and. carr'ing on or doing business therein. And
thereby, in our opinion, the intentibn of Congress is
plainly shwn to extend the tax from one imposed solely
upon organizations exercising statutory privileges, as
theretofore, to include also "organizations exercising the
privilege of doing business as associations at the common
law..
IIt is true that the"Chairman of the Waysand Means
Committee of the House of Representatiies in a statement
as to "the general principles of the bill "r-whih included
many kinds of taxes--*hile saying tha the committee had
made tn important change in the rates and exenmpi.rns in
the capital stock tax, made'no .reference" to any enlarge-.
ment of the class of. organizations tio which the tax would
apply; and that the Chairman of the Senate Committee
on Finance,'in reporting on the bill, while stafing that it.
"provided for the continuance of the capital'stock tax on
the basis of the fair average vaJue of the capital stock of
the corporation," and mhde certain changes in rates, likewise made no reference, to any such enlargement in the
scope of its provisions. 56 Cong. Rec., Pt. 12, App. p. 698;
65th Cong. 3d sess., Sen. Rep. No. 617, p. 17. We cannot,
however, regard the slight negative inf~renceawhch might

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

be drawn from the failure of these"chairmen to point out
the enlargement of the class of organizations made subject
to the excise tax, as sufficient to overcome the evidence
of the legislative intention drawn from the plain and unambiguous language of the Act itself, emphasized by the
contrast with that of the Act of 1916 which it supplanted..
-Nor can we agree with the contention that the definition clause of the-Act is not to be held applicable to the
excise tax provision on the ground that the Act consoli-.
dated many former taxing acts and its general definitions
may have been inadvertently extended to the excise tax
provision without any actual intention of departing from
the language of the former statute in this respect. This
is not a mere revision and consolidation of former statutes
to which a new interpretation is not to be given without
some substintial change in phraseology. McDonald v.
Hovey, 110 U. S. 619; BuckStove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S.
205. It is a new statute, supplanting and changing the
former statutes in many respects, and in which there is a
significant change of phraseology, incorporated in the general definition clause inade applicable, expressly, to every
provision of the Act.
Nor does the language of the Act in this respect call for
the application of the established rule that in the interpretation of statutes levying taxes their provisions are not to
be extended by.implication beyond the clear import of the
language used, and in case of doubt are to be construed
most strongly against the Government and in favor of the
taxpayer. Gould v. Gould, 245 U. S. 151, 153; United
States v. Merriam,263 U. S. 179, 187. Here the language
of the Act is specific, leaving no substantial doubt as to
its meaping; and the taxpayers are seeking by implication
to limit its clear import.
3. We iso conclude that these three trusts are "associations" created or organized in the United States and
engaged in business, within the meaning of the Act. The
trustees of the Hecht and Haymarket Trusts -insist that-

-

HECHT v. IaLLEY.
144

157

Opinion of the Court.

they are not such "associations". The trustees of the
Crocker Association on the other hand admitied in the
Circefit Court of Appeals and at the bar, thatisince the
modification of the original trust agreement, the trust constitutes an " association ".
The word "association" appears to be used in the Act
in its ordinary meaning. It has been defined as a term
"used throughout the United States to signify a body of
persons united without a charter, but upon the methods
and forms used by incorporated bodies for the prosecution
of some common enterprise?' 1. Abb. Law Diet. 101
(1879); 1 Bouv. Law Diet. (Rawle's 3rd Rev.) 269; 3
Am. & Eng. Ene. Law (2d ed.) 162; and Allen v. Stevens
(App. Div.), 54 N. Y. S. 8, 23, in which this definition was
cited with approval as being in accord with the common
understanding. Other definitions are: "In the United
States, as distinguished from a corporation, a body of persons organized, for the prosecution of some purpose, without a-charter, but having the general form and mode of
procedure of a corporation." Webst. New Internat: Dict.
" [U. S.] An organized but unchartered body analogous to
but distinguished from a corporation." Pract. Stand. Diet.
And see Malley v. Bowditch (C. 0. A.), 259 Fed. 809,812;
Chicago Title Co. v. Smietanka, (D. C.) 275 Fed. 60: also
United Mine Workers v. Coronado.Co., 259 U. S. 344,
392, in which unincorporated labor unions were held to be
"associations" within the meaning of the Anti-Trust Law.
We think that the word "association" as used in the
Act clearly includes " Massachusetts Trusts" suh-as those
herein involved, having quasi-corporate organizations under which they are engaged in carrying on business exiterprises.8 What other form of " associations ", if any, it includes, we need not, and do not, determine.

8In the

present cases the Circuit Court of Appeals said: "It is a

matter of common knowledge that, for most business and financial
purposes, all the larger organizations of this sort have for years been

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U.S.

It is true that in Eliot v. Freeman, supra, at p. 186, it
was said that the two trusts there involved could "hardly
be said to be organized, within the ordinary meaning of
that term." However, the decision was basedsolely upon
the ground that.they were not subject to the tax imposed
by the Act of 1909 because they were not organized under
any statute; and the inference from the entire opinion is
that if the Act had not required such a statutory organization they would have been held to be within its terms.
And we think that the present trusts are both " created"
and "organized" in the United States within the meaning of the Act.
The trustees of the Hecht and Haymarket Trusts earnestly rely, however, upon the decision in Crocker v. Malley, supra, as conclusively determining that they cannot
be held to be "associations" unless the trust agreements
vest the shareholders with such control over the trustees
as to constitute them more than strict trusts within the
Massachusetts rule. This case arose under § IT, G(a), of
the Income Tax Act of 1913 imposing a tax'upon the net
income of "every corporation, joint-stock company or
association ..
. organized in the United States, no
matter how created or organized." Section II, D, provided that trustees or other fiduciaries were exempt from
indistinguishable from corporations. One might almost say that they
are a device under which parties make their own corporation code.
Business concerns so organized have come to occupy a large field in
industry and in finance. At least two substantial text-books have
been written on thelaw concerning such organizations and dealing with
their advantages for general business purposes.

.

.

. In Dana v.

Treasurer,227 Mass. 562, 565, it appears that the Amoskeag Manufacturing Company, commonly known to be one of the largest enterprises in New England, is so organized. The Pepperell Manufacturing Company, before this court in Malley v. Bowditch, supra,
had a capitalization of over $7,500,000; the Crocker Trust operates
large paper manufacturing mills, employing about 1,000 men, with

gross assets of over $10,000,000." 281 Fed. at p. 370.

HECHT v. ALkLY.
144

Opinion of the Court..

this tax upon dividends received from corporations taxable
upon their net income. The precise question was whether
the trustees of The Wachusett Realty Trust were subject
to the income tax upon dividends received from a Massachusetts corporation that was itself taxable upon its net
income.. The trustees insisted that they were hot an
Cassociation" subject to this tax, under G(a), but merely
trustees and entitled to the exemption as fiduciaries under
D. The trust had been created by a Maine corporation
which contemplated dissolution, for the benefit of its
shareholders. It had transferred to the trustees the fee
of certain lands leased to a Massachusetts manufacturing
corporation engaged in operating several mills," d also
the stock in that corporation which it held. The purpose.
of the trust was to convert *thisproperty into money and
distribute the net proceeds to the beneficiaries, within a
period left to the discretion of the trustees. Meanwhile
they were to distribute the net income, but could apply
any funds for the repair and development of the property
or the acquisition of other property, pending conversion
and distribution. Their function, as emphasized in the
opinion, was not to manage the mills, but simply to collect
the rents and income, with a large discretion in its applica.tion. The beneficiaries had no control except in certain
matters in which their consent was required.
The Court, after stating that the declaration of trust
on its face was "an ordinary real estate trust of the kind
familiar in Massachusetts," and that there could be "little
doubt that in Massachusetts this arrangement would be
held to create a trust and nothing more," said that "as
the plaintiffs undeniably are trustees, if they are to be
subjected to a double liability the language of the statute
must make the intention clear;" and that "it would be
a wide departure from normal usage to call the beneficiaries here a, joint-stock association when they are admitted not to be partnes in any sense, and when they

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

have no joint action or interest and no control over the
fund. On the other hand, the trustees by themselves
cannot be a joint-stock association within the meaning of
the act unless all trustees with discretionary powers are
such, and the special provision for trustees in D. is to be
made meaningless. We perceive no ground for grouping
the two-beneficiaries and trustees-together, in order to
turn them into an association, by uniting their contrasted
functions and powers, although they are in no proper
sense associated .
. . We presume that the taxation
of corporations and joint-stock companies upon dividends
of corporations that themselves pay the income tax was
for the purpose of discduraging combinations of the kind
now in disfavor, by which a corporation fiolds cntrolling
interests in other corporations which in their turn may
control others, and so on, and in this way concentrates a
power that is disapproved. There is nothing of that sort
here. Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the
statute fails to show a clear intent to subject the dividends
on the Massachusetts corporation's stock to the extra tax
imposed by G(a)."
This opinion is based primarily upon the view that the
Income Tax Act, considering its purpose, did not show a
clear intention to impose upon the trustees as an "association" a double liability in reference to the dividends
on stock in the corporation that itself paid an income tax,
when considered as "trustees' -they were by another
provision of the Act exempt from such payment. And
the language used arguendo- in reaching this conclusion
that the trustees could not be deemed an association
unless all trustees with discretionary powers are such, and
.that there was no ground for grouping together the beneficiaries and trustees in order to turn them into an association-is to be read in the light of the trust agreement
there involved, under.-Which the trustees were, in substance, merely holding property for the collection of the

JIECHT v. MALLEY.
144

Opinion of the Court.

income and its distribution among the beneficiaries, and
were not engaged, either by themselves or in connection
with the beneficiaries, in the carrying on of any business.
Zonne v. MinneapolisSyndicate, 220 U. S. 187, 190. And
see Smith v. Anderson, L. R., 15 Ch. Div. 247.
It results that Crockerv. Malley is not an authority for
the broad proposition that under an Act imposing an
excise tax upon the privilege of carrying on a business, a
Massachusetts Trust engaged in the carrying on of business in a quasi-corporate form, in which the trustees have
similar or greater powers than the directors in a corporation, is not an " association" within the meaning of its
provisions.
We conclude, therefore, that when the nature of the
three trusts here involved is considered, as the petitioners
are-not merely trustees for collecting funds and paying
them over, but are associated together in much the same
manner as the directors in a corporation for the purpose
of carrying on business enterprises, .the trusts are to be
deemed associations within the meaning of the Act of
1918; this being true independently of the large measure
of control exercised by the beneficiaries in the Hecht and
Haymarket cases, which much e:Kceeds that exercised by
the beneficiaries under the Wachusett Trust. We do not
believe that it was intended that organizations of this
character-described as "associations" by the Massachusetts statutes and subject to duties and liabilities as
such-should be exempt from the excise -tax on the
privilege of carrying on their business merely because
such a slight measure of control may be vested in the
beneficiaries that they might be deemed strict trusts
within the rule established by the Massachusetts courts.
That the Crocker Association is engaged in carrying on
business within the meaning of the Act, is obvious. And
so of the Hecht and Haymarket Trusts. A corporation

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

.265

U.S.

owning.and renting an office building is engaged in business within the ni,eaing of. an excise statute. fMint v.

Stone Pract, Co.; supra, p.*171; Zonne v. Minniqpolis
Syndicate, smpra, at p. 190.
4. It is urged, howeyer,b~r.the trustees of the Crocker
Association that they are not subject to an excise tax
under the Act of 1918, because -the tax imposed on a
domestic "association" is measured by "the fair average
value of its capital stock"; th6 argument being that this
tax, of necessity, can apply only to" associations" having
a fixed "capital stock" represented by shares, that is, a.
desiknated share capital whose amount is fixed by the
articles of .association. or trust agreement. Hence, it is
insisted, the tax cabmot apply to this Association, which,
it is claimed) has .no "capital stock" within the meaning
of the Act. The trustees of the Hecht Trust.do not make
this contention.
The certificates in this Association, as stated, have no
par value; the shares being for ninety-six thousandths of
the beneficial interest in the property. No "capital" account is kept by the trustees; but they hive a profit and
loss account, in which they are charged with all the property transferred to them, at a valuation, against which
liabilities and reserves are shown, the balance being
carried as the net interest of the shareholders. And their
books show the "di v idend s " disbursed to shareholders.
. The amount of the present tax was assessed by the Collector by taking the fair value of the assets of the Association over its liabilities, ind calling the difference its capital
stock.
It is true that, generally speaking, in the technical
sense, the capital stock of a corporation is a suni fixed by
its corporate charter as the amount paid or to be paid iii
by the'dockholders for the'prosecution of the business of
the corporation and the betiefit of ifs criditors. 1 Cook
on. Corporations, 7th .ed., 38, and cases cited in note 2.

HECT v. MALLEY.
144

163

Opinion of the Court.

However, in statutes relating t6 taxation, sometimes
'drawn without regard to the technical meaning of the
words, the courts will construe "capital stock" to mean
the actual property of the corporation, when necessary to
carry out the intent of the statute. !b. p. 39; ecuaity
Co. v. Harfford, 61 Conn. 89, 101; Henderson.Brfcge Co.
v. Commonwealth, 99 Ky.'623, 641. And see People v.
Coleman, 126 N. Y. 433, 439.
We think that in the Act of 1918, in which the tax upon
an association is based upon the average value of its
"capital stock," including surplus and undivided profits,
these words are not to be given a technical meaning, but
should be interpreted, in their entirety, and, in the absence
of a fixed share capitali as equivalent to the capital invested in the business, that is, the net value of the property owned by the association and used in its business. As
was said by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the phrase in
the statute a to "'including surplus and undivided
profits' puts beyond doubt the question of the congressional intent to measure this tax by business and financial
realities, not bybookkfeeping forms or mere names." And
this construction is in harmony with the Provislion as to
the excise tax on a foreign association, which is fixed upon
the value "of the capital actuall:y invested in the transaction of its business in the United States."
We therefore conclude that the Crocker Association was
also subject to the tax, and that this was properly measured by the Collector by the net value of its property-no
question being made as to the correctness of his valuation.
5. A question remains in Cases Nos. 100 and 119which has not been argued by counsel-as to the taxes for
the years ending June 30, 1919, which were assessed
against the trustees of the Haymarket Trust and the
Crocker Association under the Act of 1916, and paid by
them before the passage of the Act of 1918. The latter
Act, which was approved and became effective February

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

.

265 U.S.

24, 1919, was retroactive in its provisions and covered the
year ending June 30, 1919 (40 Stat. 1126). Thereafter
additional taxes were assessed against the trustees, representing the differences between the amount of the taxes
which they had paid under the Act of 1916 and those
prescribed by the Act-of 1918. See note:2, p. 146, supra.
In view of the retroactive provimion of the Act of 1918,
we are of opinion that the taxes for the year ending June
30, 1919, cannot now be recovered, even though originally
their assessment under the Act of 19f6 was unauthorized,
since they thereafter became due under the Act of 1918;
and that they may now be retained by the United States.
See Anderson v. Loan & Trust Co. (C. C. A.), 241 Fed.
322, 325," and New .York Life Ins. Co. v. Anderson
(C. C. A.), 263 Fed. 527, 530; also Crocker v. Maley,

gupra, at p. 235.
-The decrees of the Ciriuit.Court of Appeals are accordingly' affirmed in cases Nos. 100, 101, and 119; and in No.
99 affrmed as to the taxes assessed for the years ending
June 30, 1919, and June 3.0, 1920, and reversed as to
those assessed -for the six months ending June 30, 1917,
and the year ending June 30, 1918.
Affirmed in part.
Reversed in part.

MRt. JusTIcE HOLmEs -and MA. JusTIcE B1~imnIs took
no part. in the decision & these cases.

