.EVE1ARD'S BREWERIES v. DAY.533

Syllabus.

has relation according to his rights and needs, and in the
order of their requisition, and the abilitj of he carrier.
I coicur. in the reasoning of Commissioner 'Potter.
"We may not restrict the use of transportation facilities
in order to equalfie mine operation. To do so would-be
to require discrimination in the use of equipment-not
remove it. If a local mine is at a disadirantagd it is
not because of a transportation problem with which we
may deal..
. ." The question imthe case ismaie obsoue by an attempt
at its simplification. It seems the prompt aswrance of
* self evidence that a -mine owAer-with the facilities of two
railroads may order such number of cars from both railroads as he may need, this being a right relative to. his
property, indispu, ably an. element of" its value, represented in its price and the cost to him.
.Itink, therefore, the decree should
be affirmed.
JAAES -EVERARD'S BREWERIES v. DAY, PROH IBITION DIRECTOR OF TE STATE OF NEW
YORK, ET At.
EDWARD AND-JOHN BURKE, LIITED, v. BLAJR,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
ET AL.
APPEALS MOM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THEM UNITED STATES
FOR ME SOUTHER "DISTRICT OF N1EW YORM.

Nos. 200 and 245. Argued March 4, 5, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924.
1.'Section 2 of the Supplemental Prohibition Act of November 23,
1921, in so far as it prevents physicians from prescribing intoxic ting malt liquors for medicinal !iurposes, is constitutional.
P. 557.
2. This provision does not-violate the Tenth .Amendment, since it
is not an invasion of power reserved to the States. P558.
3. It is supported both by'the implied power of Congress t6 make
laws necesary and proper for executing powers expressly granted

546.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Aigumeiit for Appellant in No. 245.

.265 U. ,

(Coist., Art. I, § 8,. el. 18,) and by the clause of the Eighteenth
Amendment specifically onferring power to enforce by "appropriate legislation" the prohibition of traffic in intoxicating liquors

for beverage purposes. P. 558.
4. The Court cannot say, In face of the contrary affirmation by
Congress, -that prohibiting traffic in intoxicating malt liquors foi
medicinal .purposes has no real or substantial relation to the en-

fo'cement of the Eighteenth Amendment.: P. 560.
5. Nor can.it be held that the act-.is an arbitrary and unreasonable
prohibition of the use of vauable medicinal agents, ii view of-

the determination of Congress, aid the evidence supporting it, that
intoxicating malt liquors posess Ao substantial and essential medi;
cimal properties, which] as respects .the public health, cannot be
supplied- by permitting- physicians to prescribe spirituous and vinous iktoxicating liquors, in addition to "kon-intoxicating malt

liquors. P. 561.
6. Dealers in beer, ale and stout, who were prevented by me act
from disposing of stocks acquired W*fore it was pazsed, were not
thereby deprived -of property without. due process of law in

violation of-the Ffth Anendment. P. 563.
Affirmed.

APPFaLs from decrees of the District Court vhich dismissed the bills, for want of equity; in two suts brougtif
by manufacturers and dealers in -intoxicating malt liquors,
to enjoin the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,- and.
other officials, fronI enforcing a Supplemental Prohibition
Act.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore,.with whom Mr. Marow L. Bell..
was on the briefs, for appellant in No. 245.
1. The allegation .that Guinneas's .Stout 'is a valuable
medicinal agent, is to be -taken as true, .for the purposes
of this appeal, notwithsianding the provisiois of. the
Willis-Campbell Act, being -admitted by the motion to..
dismiss.
. How can Congress, acting under a constitutional grant
of authority to, prohibit the manufacture and sale of.
into icating liquor for beverage purposes, prohibit the
sale of a,recognized medicinal agent for medicinal pur-.

EVERARD'S BR.W: BIIES. v. DAY.
4Arpment

547

for Appe11int'in No. 245..

poses? The National Prohibition-Act itself, recognize'
-the value.of -malt as well as other liquor for.,medicinal
purposes, and.contains carefully drawn provisibns which

permit tie use of intoxicants for medicinal purposes.
The sale and use of sacramental wines, ], useof liquort
in hospitals .and sanitariums,, and the use of industial
alcohol are also pernrtted. A great nunbei of regula-.
tions have been made by the Commissioner, with the
approval of the Treasury Department, throwing safeguards and restrictions around the sale and. prescriptioi.
of intoxicating liquor for medicinal purpo'ses..
The Eighteenth Amendmeht did not clothe Congress
with the general power to invqde the domain bf medical
authority, or to substitute- its judgment for the judgment of the attending physician. Much less may it select
a recognized therapeutic. agent, such as Guin.iss's Stout,
and declare that it may iiot be. prescribed fo?"a patient,
even though the attending physician regards- it as essential or indispensable in bringing about a rdstoration to
health. If Congress can select one recognized medical
agent, and .lawfully prphibit. its use, there is 'no limit
to which it nray not go. United States v. Friund,29D
Fed. 411; Lamnbert v. Yellowley, 291 Fed. 640.
The determination of questions'of fact is a judicial and
not a legislative question. Block v. Hirsh,, 256 U. S.
135; Shoemaker v. .United States, 147 U. S.' 282; Producers Transportation Co. v. Railroad Commissio' 251
U. S. 228; M&onongahela,Nay. Co. v. United States, 148
U. S. 312.
II. The grint -of power contained in the. Eighteenth
Amendment is limited by the reservations of the Tenth
Amendment. -The two amendments effect a division of
legislative power over intQxicating liquor, the Congress
and state legislature being vested. with. concurrent legislative power over intoxicating liquor for beverage pifrposes, and the legislatures of the several States retaining

548"

OTOCT01MTERM,-1923.
Argument for Appellant-in N. 24,5.

265 U.S.

exclusive legislative. power over intoxicating liquor for
non-beverage purposes.

United State&' v. Lanza, 260

U. S.377.
It i&4rue that Congress in the exerciseof a-delegated
power,.sich as the power to prohibit the use of into icating liquor for beverage purposes, possesses the incidental
power to. enact such laws anxd make such regulations as
•wtffl effectively prevent the mahnifacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquor for the prohibited purposes; but the exercise of ttlis incidental power- must stop
short 'of the actual prohibition of the manufacture and
sale of intoxicating fiquor for non-beverage purposes.
Other
the legislative control of the several States
over-intoxicating liquor for non-beverage purposes,, reserved fo them by the Tenth Amendment, would be nufli"fled.
Thed'in d idental power'of Congress to give full effect
to a delegated power cannot, consistently with the Tenth
Amendment, ,wholly deprive the States of the power
which i ;- "i
m
,a ent reserves to them. In other words,
•judicial construction cannot write into the Eighteenth
Aiiendm-eiit authority to prohibit the mlanufacture and
sae. f intoxicating liquor for non-beverage purposes, as
wellasfor beverage purposes. To do so-would be to strike

the words " for beverage purposes" from te amendment.
Had the amendment when submitted to the legislatures
of the several States contained a delegatiofi of authority
.to Congress th -rohibit the manufacture, sale .ortransportation of inhoxiating liquor for non-beverage, as well.'
as beverage, purposes, there is no reason to sup'pose that
it would have received the ratification it did.
It is of the utbiost importance to bear in mind that
the power over the iiazxufacture and sale of int6icatiig
liquor, simiar to the lwei to regulate intrastate and.
inter.--ate commerce, :is a divided power, a part of this
power being vested in the-general government and a part

EVERARD'S BWRWI
545

v. DAYt.

549.

Argument for Apelan t in No. 245.

being*reseved-to state gcvernments.- The state powers
may not encroach upon-the power of Congress, nor may
the power of Congres encroach upon the state power to
"the extent of occupying he entire leksltive field. The
Constitutiqn itself creates a dividing line which neither
may cross.
should also be borne in mind that thb is not a
Itcase where Congress acts in the exercise of a power
covering the entire legislative field, as it did in Ruppert
v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264.
Nor is it like the ease of Purity-ExtractCo.v. Lync.,
226 U. S. 192, where an act of the Legislature ofMissis
sippi prohibiting the sale of malt liquors *as upheld.
There the state authority was exclusive, c6vering the
entire. legislative field, and it could regulate or prohibit
as "ts public policy'might requite. In neither case was.
.here any constitutional division of power between natronal and state governmenfs.
lM. The incidental 'power possessed by Congress to
make effective. its power to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes, cannotfbe constitutionally exercised so as-fholly to prohibit its sale for nonpurposes.
beverage
"There are
well-re6ognized limitations upon the ineldental power of Congress'to make effective the exercise
of its authority under an express or delegated power.
Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U.. S. 251; Child Labor Taz
Case, 259 U. S. 20; H.fl v. Walace, 259 U. S. 44
The right to control this subject matter has been exclusively reserved to the several States. While it may be
incidentally affected by proper congressional action, it
cannot be wholly destroyed. Ejloyers' Liabzlity Cases,
207 U. S. 463.
The Tenth Amendment isa limitation imposed.by the
Constitution upon the action of Congress, gnd this limi-

550

OCTOBER. TERM.,.192 .
Argument for Appe1ant in No. 245.

265U.S.

tation should receive a liberal, 6iid not a nafrow construction. Faiiban- v.*. United States, 181 U. S. 283;
Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United States; 148 U. S: 312;
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Adair. v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161; United States v. D1ewitt, 9 Wall.
41; Collector v .Day,'11 Wall. 113; Keller v.'.United
States,'213 U. S. 138; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46.
-Congress may go no fn-ther than is reasonably neces-:
sary to put an end to. traffic in intoxicating.liquor for
beverage purposes. Wisconsin R. R. -Comm. v. Chicago,
, etc., R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563..
The effect of-the Eighteenth and Tenth Amendments,.
considered together, is- to vest in the several States the
power to regulate or prohibit the, use of malt liquors for
noii-beverage purposes. The effect of this act, if valid,
is to divest the States of every- shred of authority over
-the subject.
IV. The enforcement of the act will deprive the appellaht of its property without due process of law, and
take its property for public use -without just compensation, in viblation of the Fifth Amendment. Chicago &.
"N. W. Ry Co. v. Nye Schiieider Fbwler Co., 260 U. S.
35; Truax v. "orrigan, 257 U. S. 312; Davidson v. New
Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; MissouriPacific Ry. Co. v. Hlumes,
115 U. S.512; Scott v. Toledo, 36 Fed. 385; Caldwell v.
Texas, 137 U. S.692; Leeper v. Texas, 139 U.-S. 462;
Gioz&a v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; McGhee, Due Process
of Law, p. 60; Willoughby, Const.; pp. 873, 874.
The act made no provision for compensating the -appellanf for the loss which it would sustain from its enforcement, nor did it postpone the effective date of the
act for a period during which the appellant Might dispose of its stock. Immediately up6n its passage it was
appgoved, and at once became effective. Ruppert v.
Caffey, 251 -U. S. 264, and Mugler -v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623i distinguished.

OVERARIYS BREWERJES v. DAY.
.545

551

-Argument foi-Appellnt in No. 200.

Mr. Nathan " lin, with whom Mr. William M. ..K.
Olcott an'd Mr. Walter E. Ernst were on the brief,'for"
appellant in No. 200.
I. The Eighteenth Amendmenit prohibited the use of
-Intoxicating liquors-.for beverage puiposes only. Op..
Atty. Gen., March 3, 1921; Hamilton v. Keitucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146; Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S.
264; National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350.
In Purity Extract Co. v Lynch, 226 U-- S. 19.2, it was.
decided bnly that the State might- i the exercise of its
police power prohibit the use of non-intoxicating malt
-liquors in order effectually to capTy out its state prohibition. There cannot, in the course of that opinion,
be fotind any specific authority to hold that what was
permitted to the States, was likewise delegated to Congress, for the prbhibitiQn.of liquors for medicinal purposes
was not included in the delegation of power covered by
the Eighteenth Amendment.- It is apparent that the*"
power of ihe States to enforce prohibition, resting on the
gezieral'rights of tht-State to regulat6 the health of its
citizens, was a broader function, and notsubject to the
li itation which has been fastened upon Congress by.the
eipress language of the Eighteenth Amendment.
The distinction between national and state functions
still remains, ad the.powers which am undelegated still
rest in the States.
Among these functions, the power to .rgulate health.
was never delegatedby the States' to Congress, and is,
-therefore, a power expressly reserved to the States. It
is apparent that the right to practice medicine, the right
*to manufacture drugs, and:the right to manufacture
liquors for medicinal purposes, still exist" undisturbed,
and that Congress has no express power to interfere with
these rights. If, in the regulation, of national prohibition for beverage purposes, it becomes necessary.to estabJih certain restricti.qn upon the manufacture of intoxi-

.552

OGTOBFR TERM, 1923. rgMent for Appellant m No. 200.

265 U.S.

eating liquors, for non-prohibited purposes: these restric"tions must always be taken in connection- with -the
constitutional right of the individual"to enjoy those privilbges of life, liberty and pursuit of happiness, which are
*guaranteed to him under the Constitutions not only of the
United States but also of the States.
In the decisions of this Court, this distinction b maui-,
fested in the cates in which ao'ts of Congress have been
held to be- unconstitutional because they .iolate state
functions, or because Congress has -transcended its power.
Marshallv. Gordo?z, 243 U. S. 521.
That the exercise of the regulation bf health is purely
. matter of state control is exemplified in Keller v; .United
Stateis, 213 U. S. 138; . and Hoke v. United States, 227.
U. S. 308.
.More recently 1.his Court has held that the power of
*Congress, even though intended torbe beneficial, may not
be asserted in respect to a purely state function. • Child
Labor Tax Cdse, 259-U. S. 20..
The power of the State in respect of health has also.
been recognized by such .cases as Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U"S. I; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114,and Watson.v. Mdfgland, 218 U.. S. 173, in all of which
the power of the State to regblate, vaccination and the
,practice of medicine is distinctly asserted and established
as a state and not a national function. See also Hammer
v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251., United States v. Doremus,
249 U. S: '86, distinguished.
A striking.illustration of the constitutional-right of a
person lo be treated medicinally' as he chooses, or in fact,
not to be treated at all, appears in People v. Cole, 219
N. Y. 98.
SI.
The prohibition of intoxicating malt liquors for
medicinal purposes is ieither an appropriate nor a reasonable exercise of the prohibitory power of Congress.
The power to. prohibit the use of.liguos as.a beverage
does not extend to the power to prohibit them as a medi-

EVFERARD'S BREWERIES v. DAY.
M

553

Argument for t Appellant in.No. 200.

cine. "Barrlsv. Commonwealth, 83: Ky. 427; reund,Police Power, p. 210;.Lmbert v. Yellowlty, 291 Fed. 640;
Unted States v. Freuftd, 290 Fed. 411.
'May a. legislature declare. a scientific fact because it
has instituted some investigation? Becauie of- such investigation, may Congress. arbitrarily assume that malt
liquors have no medicinal properties? In its last analysis,
the scientific or medicinal *aue of 'the product should
rest with the physician. * Congress has transgressed n6t
only the constitutional right of' the bhysician to 'determine what is Eeneficial for his patients, but also the coii-ititufional right of the patient to'recei ;e fri'. the phy* sician the. prescription of- malt jiquors, if the physiciai
aeems it best 'for the health, of his patient. In this enactment Congress assumed a; functi6n which it did hot
constitutionally possess. The power to define what is
intoxicating, namely, the- limitation to an alcoholiccontent of -/2 of one per cent., may not be extended so as
to- give Congress power, also, to declae "non-medicinkl
a. form. of liquor which has been recognized by leading
physicians as having marked, i-edicinal and therapeutic
properties.
• Mr; Joseph S. Auerbach, -with whom Mr. 'MartinA.
Schenck was on the brief, on behalf of Samuel W. Lambert, by special leave of Court, as- amicus curiae.
Mr. Solicitor General Beek, with whom Mrs: Mabel
Walker Wilebrandt and Mr. Mahlon D. Kiefer were on
ihe brief, for appellees. -

Mr. H. H. Griswold,on Dbhalf of the Attorneys General
of the States of. Alabama, Arkansas, - Florida, Illinois,
Indian, I6wa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri,' Montaqa, Nebraska, New
Meico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pnnsylvania; South Dakota, Tennesse', West Virginia and
Wyoming, by ispecial leave of Court, as amicus ¢mie.

OCTOBER TERM, "1923."
Opinion of the .Cout.
Mit. Jus.TICE SAONro
Co'urt.

265 U.S.

delivered -the opinion of the.

These two cases were-heard .tdiether. They involve"
the single question whether § 2 of the Supplemental Prohibition Act"of November 23, 1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 222,
is constitutional, in so far as. it- prevents physicians from
prescribing intoxicating malt liquors for medicinal purposes. This section of. the act provides: "That only
* spirituous and vinous liquor may be prescribed fori medicifial purposes, and. all pirnits to prescribe and prescriptions for any other liquor.'shall be void."

-

The Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution provides that ""{he - manufacture, saile," or transportation of
int oicating liquors within, the importation thereof into,
or-the exportatiori thereof from the United States . . .
for beverage purposes is-hereby prohibited '" (§ 1); and
that "Congress and the several Sthtes shall have con- "

-

current power to enforce this article by apirppriate leeislation." (§ 2.)
The National Prohibition Act (41 Stat. 805), enacted in
pursuance of this Amendment, proyvides that no person
shall "manufacture, sell, barte', transport, import, export,
deliver, furnish or'possess any intoxcating iquor" except
as authorized in the act, and that all its provisions shall
be liberallyoconstrued to the end that "the. use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage" may bp -prevented, Tit.
IT, § 3; that intoicating liquor "for nonbeverage purposes" may be, manufa tured,. sold,'etc., "but only." as

-

-

provided in tho act, and the Commissioner of Internal
:Revenue may issue permits therefor, Ib: §3; that no one
shall manufacture, ell or prescribe intoxicating liquor
without first obtaining a permit from the Commissioner,
§ 6; th'gt no permit shall be issued for the sale of in-'
toxicating liquor at.reta l exeept through a pharmacist
licensed to dispense medicine preseribed by physicians,

LVERA5RD'S BREWERIES v, DAY.
5

*Opinion

555

of.thd Court.

§ 6; that no one shall b6 given a permit to prescribe intoxicating licjior exept a liceiased practicing physician,
§ 6; that no one but a. physician holding such permit
shall issue any 1resrilpion fo intoxicating liquor, § 7;
and that not. more than-a pint of "-spirituous liquor"
shall be prescribed for the same person within any period
of ten days, § .7.
-Under the Regulations adopted by the Treasury Department aftei' the passage of the act, physicians obtain-

ing permits were authorized to prescribe only distilled
spirits, wines, and certain alcoholic medicinal preparations.
T. D. 2985. In October, 1921, pursuant to an opinion of
the Attorney General that the Commissioner might issue
permits for.the manufacture of beer and other intoxicating -malt liquors, as- well as whisky and .vinous liquors,
for medicinal purpbses (32 Ops. Atty. Gen. 467), the
Regulations were amended so as to authorize the Commissioner to issue permits for the malufacture of intoxicating malt liquors for medicinal purposes, and to permit
physicians to prescribe them. T. D. 3239.
Ifi November Congress passed the Supplemental Act
now in question, containing in § 2,*as has been stated,
.the provision that "only spirituous' and vinous liquor
may.be prescribed for medicinal purposes," and that all
prescriptions for any other liquor1 and permits therefor
shall be void. The direct effect of this provision is to prohibit physicians from prescribing intoxicating malt liquors
for medicinal purposes, and the Commissioner from issuing permits authorizing such prescriptions. This section also limits prescriptions for vinous liquor to one-

-

The word "liquor" i used as meaning " intoxicating liqudr" as
defined in the Prohibition Act (Tit. 11, § 1), including beer, ale,
porter, and any malt liquor containing one-half of one per centum
.of alcohol by volume and fit for use for beverage purposes. Supp-

Act, § 1.

b56,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.. .Opimlon bf the Court..

26U. S.

fourth of a gallon, contahning"not more than p4 per
centum of alcohol, and provioes that- the vinous-and
spirituous'liquor.precribed for any" person within ay
period of-ten days shal not contain more-than one-half
-pint
of acohol
•
Jam
Everarls'Breweries,
the 'plaintiff in the first
case, is a New York c6rporation. -Prior to the passage, of
the Prohibition Act it had been eigaged in the maouf-acture and sale of beer aiid o'ther. intoxicating malt iqucs.
.After the Treasury Regulations had been amended, .it
obtained a permit for the ma'nufacture of intoxicating.
malt liquor f6r.medicinal purposes, and brewed a ]argde
.quantity of beer, ale. and stout for sale to pharmacists
for resale on physician's prescriptions. - Whencthe Supplemental Act was passed it had on hand a large quantityof these'intoxicatinig malt .liquors which it c.ould not
thereafter sell in the conduct of its business, and of which
itcould only dispose, after de-alcioholizatioi, itt a-heavy
loss.'
Edward and John Burke, Limited, the "
plaintiff in the
secqfid case, is ' , British corporation, engaged
in bottling'
and "distfibuting an. intoxicating malt liquor known as
Guinness's Stout. Prior Vo the passage of the Nation3aI
Prohibition Act it had-maintained a branch of its business
in New -York. Eirly in November; 1921, the Commissioner refused it'a permit to'sell such stout for-medicinal
purposes because of the "peidency in Congress of the
Supplbmental-Prohibition Bill. At the time of the passage of the act it had on hand a, large quantity of stout.
Each-of these corporations brought a suit in equity in

the District Court to enjoin the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue and other federal 'officers from enforcing fhe pro'vision of the. Supplemental Act .prohibiting the prescribing of intoxicating ma1t liquors for medicinal purposes,
alleging 'that it was not authorized by the Eighteenth
Anfendment- and was in confict 'with other provisions

EVERARD'S"BREWERIES'-i. DAY.
545

' 557

Opinion of the C~urt.-

.9f the Consfitutibnk. Each*of these -bills wa's dismissd
by.te-District Court, for want of equity!s ..The plaintifs
'thef appealed directly to this Couit. Jud. Code, § 288.
The contention that'this proviWon of the-Supplemental.
Act is "unc6nstitutioial, is, bisd primarily. ip6n the.

.grounds: That the Eighteenth Ambhdment merely delegates to Congresi the authority to-prohibit-the traffic in
intoxicating liquors for -beverage purposes, and the control of the traffic in su6.h liquors -fornon-beverage pur. •
posesis reser~ed to the several
fesi; that.While Congress"
possesses the incidental power to regulate the trafflq in

*intoxicatng liquors for non-bleverage- purposes so"far. as
isreuonably necessa y to make effective the prohibition
of the traffic in siich liqluors for beverage'purpoiei; this.
Incidental power is. limited. to ,reasoiable regulation anid

"

doeq, not extend to complete prohibiticn;'-and that *theprolibition of ikescriptions for the use of intoxicating
malt liquors for medicinal lpurposes is n~ither an appro-.priate nor-reasonable exercise of the power -conferred,
upon Congress by the-Amendment and infrinjes upon.the
2

1n the Everard case th bil.lprayid tat the Su1pplemental Act be dlalard. unconstitutional; and that the defendants be enjoined

from interfering with the plaintiff. i i manufacturing inthxiating
malt liquors for medioinaT purpfes and selling jhq same t plarma-".
oists, from interfering with pharmacists in purchasing and physician s.
in prescribing- such liquors fdr. such purposes; itd from xefuhing
-to-issue permits t6 pharmacists and physicans for such purposes.
In -the Burke case the bill prayed that the'-defendants be enjoified.
frtm'enforcing-the'act andTreasury Regulations in so-far as-they -.
pXohibited.the plaintiff from selliii st3ut - -pharmacists for m'edi--

cina p.rposes; from.'interferng" with the'*plaintiff in maldng suchsales; and from.-refusieg-to issue t6 the plaintiff and t6 pharms: •
cists and physicians permits for'he ale,. urchate and.prescribing of.
such stout..
"
•

, 3ntheEveard'-ase there wasiao 6fpiioi---- In the Burke case"'
6e opin!on *as mainly based o. the earlier opinion of the same ""
.'
Pi2 D~bu. '. Day, 278 Fed. '22, which had bein affirmed by
th Cuio ".
of Appe
, cu.
. 2 Fe 1022.
d
4.
2
-ec

£58

OCTOBER TERM, 1923..
Opinion bf the Court.

265 1. S.

*legi ative powefr of the States in matters affecting the
public health.

."

It is clear that if the act is within the authority dele-"
gated to Congress by the- gh'eenth Amendnient, its
validity is not impaired by reason of any.power reserved
to' the States. The words "concu-rrent power" as used
in the second section of fhe Anlendment "do not mean
joint power, or require that legislation thereunder by
Congress, to be effective, shal- be approved or sanctioned
by the several States or any .of them ";. and the pov*er
confided to Congress, while not exclusive, "is in no wise
dependent.on oraffected by.action or inaction on the-part
of the several States or any of them'! NationalProhibitiao Case, 253 -U. S. 350, 387. And if the act is within.
the power confided to Congress, the'Texith Amendment,
by its very terms; has no application, since it only.reserves
to the States "powers not delegated to the United States
by the Constitution." See McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
'Wheat., 316, 406; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 357.
We come then to the question -whether.this act is within
the power conferred up'on Congiass by the Eighteenth
Amendment. By its terms *the Amendment prohibits
the. manufacture, sale or transporfation of intoxicating
liqudrs for beverage.purposes,-anid grjants to Congress:
the power to enforce this prohibition '. by appyopriate
legislation." "Its purpose is to, suppress the entire traffic
in intoxicating liquor, as a b'everage. See Grogan' v.
Walker, 259 U. S. 80, 89. And it must be respected and
given. effect in"the same mann.er as other provisiois of "-.
the Constitution.- NatlonezPrdhiition,Cases, 253 U. S.
350, 386.
"
The Constitution confers upon Congress the ower to
m~ke all laws necessary and proper for carrying ihto
execution'all powers that are vested in it. Art. I, §: 8,
cL .18.;: In the exercise of such non-enumerated or "i mplied ' powers it haslong been settled tb.t Congres'is

LTE
545"

o's B

wRiWEIES v. DAY...

559

Opinion of the Court.

not-limited t& such measures as are indispensably necessary to'give effect-to its express powers, but in the exercise"
.of its discretion .as to the means- of carrying them'into
execution m'hay adopt any means .aipearing-to it most
Seligible and. a~pprop~iate, which are adapted to the end
to be accomplished and consistent with the letter.and
spirit of the Constitution. United States v. Fisher,.2
* Craich, 358, 395; Marti...v. Hunters Lesseef
.lWheat.
304, "26; McCulloch v. Maryland, sup*,*pp. 421., 422.;
Ex "part
e Curtis 106 U. S. 371,-372; Legal' Tender Case,

"110 U. S. 421, 40; In r R

ier, 143U..

110, 134; Logan.

-

v; .United State,144 .U..S.263, -283; Fong,Yue -Ting v.
United States;: 149 i 5. 698, 712; Lottery Case,-supia;:

* p. 355; Hola -v..Uited E tates,- 227 U.*S.'308, 323. FIi.:theriqr§, asid6 from this. findamieii1 uke,. the Eighi-.
eenth Ainiecdhnt specifically confeis upon. Congre§s.-.
h "powerto'-eforce"".by appropriaf elegslation" the
constitutional .prgtibition 6f .1he fraffie in intoxicithig:j
liqud.isjor bverage purposes. This ehables Congress t.6.

"enforce. the.prohibition -'by appropriaie mean..'.'- "NtionalProAibitionh Cases, soiiao p. 88.
""
.
It is.likewis.well settled that were . &manis adpted.
"by:Cqngress .are not -brohibited a d.'are calculated to."
-effepkt.the ibjet"t .ntrusted t.6 it, thi Court*a;y' not'iu.-

-quire into the degee-of their. necessity;. .as this would,
be. t6 pass. the line whfi circuxnsbribesAh-, judicial~d,*A
S..prtment

ahd.totread' upon 1egislativ -growid., .

T/- -.

,'bhV; -Mary7,&n., ' 'r,-. 423: LegaiTTidiir Case,
supra;.p. 450;'.FongKTue Ping v.Unite
a
p. 713. :Nor may- it egquire.as to ltI°
oi" of he'
-Ilffislatibin.: ZLgal Yezd&t Case, -pra,_:p. i4§0;Mc a
v. United Sa~, 9 .S 7.4;.fj~~.v7~ic~istillerieos C6., 251 U.S1~4t1 ,- Whatt m~yorar
is whether that whibh has'been'.done b Cohg ges-as"
gone beyon&dthe constitutional lmifis:iupon ts.egilative

discretion. Ex pdrte Cuiik, up ra, p. 373.

-

" 560

OCTOB]ER TERM, 1923.Opinion of the Court. -

.- 265 U.S.

'It is clear that Congress, uider its eipresi power'to'en-force by appropriate legislation the prohibition of.raffc
Jn intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes, may- adopt
any eligible and appropriate means to make that pro-.
:hibition .effective.-. The -possible abuge of a power is not
-an argument .gainsvits existence. Lottery Case; suprd,
p..363;. Hamilton v. Kentucky Distileries Co., supra,
p. 161. And it has been held tha t'he power-to prohibit
traffic in intoxist.ng liquors includes, as an appropriate
means.of. making that-p.rohibition effective, power to
prohibit traffic in .sinilar' liquors, although. non-intoxieating. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192;:
-uppert v. Caffey, 251 U. 8. 264.
.
- The ultimate and controlling question then is,.whether
in prohibiting physicians from pregcribing intqxicating
*malt liquors for .medicinalpurposes as a means of enforc- - ing the prohibition of traffic in such. liq'uors for beverage
purposes, Congress has exceeded the constit.tiona limits
-upon its legislative -discretion.
,
In enacting*this legilation Congress -has iffirmed its'
validity. That determination must be given great
.weight; thig Court by'an unbroken line of dedsi6ns hiv,
ing "steadily Adhered to the -rule. that, every possible
presumptioii is- in favor of the validity of an act-of Con:
gress until overcome' beyond- rational ddubt." 'Adkins
it. Children's Hosptal; 261 U. S. 525, 544.
-W6 cannot say that prohibiting*traffic in intoxicating
malt. liquors for medicinal purposes has no real or sub-.
stantial relation to the enforcement of the Eighithenth"Amendientj and is not adapted to accomplish .a'end.
and make.the constitutioiial 'prohibition effective. Thedifficulties always attenda-t. upon the suppression oftraffic in ntoxiet'ing liquors - are notorious. Crane v.
Campbell, 245 U: S. 304, 307. The Federal Government
in enforcing prohibition is confronted- .with diffi6lties
similar to those encountered by.the States.. Ru'jpert v;
*

-

EVERAR'S BREWERIES v. DAY.
545

-561

OpiMion of the Court.

(Jaffey, aupr, p. 297. The opportunity to manufacture,
'sell and prescribe intoxicating malt liquoris for i' medicinal
purposes," ppens many doors t.o clandestine traffic in

.'them.as beverages under, theguise of iedicines; facilitates many frauds, subterfugesand a rtfices; aids evasion:
and, thereby and"to that extent,-hampers and obstruits
the enforcement of-the Eighteenth Amendment. A pro-

vision in a revenueact which.tinds to. iminish the opportunity foiclandestine trade in voidance of the tax, hasa reasonable relation. to its enforcement.

United States .

v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86; 94.
Nor can it be held that the act is an- arbitrary and

unreasonable prohibition of the use of.valuable medicinal
agents.
When the bill was pending in Congress the Judiciary
SCommittee of the House of Represntatives held an ex-

" tended public*hearing, in which it received testimony,among other things, on th6 -question whether beer'and
other intoxicating malt liquors possessed d.ny substantial
medicinal propertis. Hearin.gs before House Judiciary

Com.'t.ee on H. R. 5033, Serlil 2, May 12, 13, 16, 17,
20, 1921. On the information thus received the -Committee recommended the passage of-the billf. H. R, 67th

Cong., 1st sess.,-Rep. No..224." And in the.light-of all the
* 'In its repqrt the Committee said: "The evidence presented to
the committee to the effect that beer has never *beenrecognized as
a medicima was overwhelming. The United States Pharmacopcia
has never listed it. as a medicin6. One hundred and. fouir of the
leading physicians and scientists in the Nation signed the following
statement: 'The undersigned physicians of the United-States desire
t5 place on record their conviition that-the manufacture and sale "
of heer and other malt liquors for medicinal purposes should not
be permitted. Malt.liquois never have- been listed in the United
States Pharmaepmia as official medicinal remedies. 'hey serve
no medical purpose which can not be satisfactorily mef" in other
ways, and that 'without the danger of cultivating ihe beverage use
of ali alcoholic liquor.' Several thousand other physicians signed the
2080V-2__---86

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

562
-

Opinion of the Court.

265 U:s.

tetimony Congress determined, in effect,..that intoxicat-'
ing malt liquors- possessed. no., substantial and essential
medicinal properties which mbde it x'edessary that t.eir
use for medicinal purposes should be-permitted; =nd that,
as a matter affecting the public health, it, was sufficient
.1o pernmit"physicians to 'prescribe spirituous and -vinous.
intoxicating liqu6rs in addition. to the non-intoxicating
malt -liquors whose manufacture and: sale is permitted
.-under the National Prohibition Act.
Teither beer nor any b'tierointoxicating malt liquor is
listed as a"medicinal remedy in the United States Pharmacopceia. "They ire noi generally recognized as medicial: agbnts. • There i's no Consensus of "opinion" amrang
-physicians and. medical authorities that they:have any
subst.aitial value as medicinal agenti; aid.while .there'is
some difference of opinioii on this s.ibjdct the question is,
'at the' most, debatable." Xnd their medicinal properties,
.,'4f any, may, it appears, be supplied by the use of other
available'rermedies. That the 'opihion is extensively held
that the prohibition of prescription of 'malt liquors is"a
*necessary- and proper means to the -suppr'uesion of .the
trafl M intoxicating beverages likewise.appedrs fromi the

legislation in mAny Statqs, ftder which such prescrtions
are niot permitted.
Te distintioi made by'Congress.between p~rmitt'ng'
'the.prescriptioi 'of spirituous and vinous l'cfuors while
"pro biting. the lrescpi4oi of malt liquoTlinot pIay
.above, or' "sitiillar statement, abcld presented -it to "the.conmitted.
The iftorey f6r the "Anheusik-Busch Co.- (Ini.) a'ppeare- before
-'the committee adu.,caled attentiqn to the-fa.t'that if.beer vas
.permitted -s a medicine it: vould*be impossible to enforee the pro-.
.lbibition. law. 'There" wb only one doctor whio appeared before W
"comif0 e in favor of hIeer as. a medicine; "andthe New York Cotity$.e offioial mredical asiociatibn of Ne Yorik,
s
Meaiel -Aocat!on,
d6hied .that -he spoke for'themr in. favoring ber. for medicinMlput-.

ooe."

,

EVERARD'S BRW.ERIES.v . DAY .
545-

Opinionlof

563

0

the Court.

* unreasonable oi without a substantial justification, based
-upon their essential differences.
We find, on the whole, no ground for disturbing-the
determination of Congress on the question of fact as to
the reasonable necessity, in the enforcement of the Eight-,
eenth Amendment, of prohibiting prescriptions of intoxicating malt liquors for niedicinal. purposes. See
Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292.
It cannot be said that its action in this respect violated
any personal rights of the appellants protected by the
Constitution. That'it did not take -their property, in.
*violation of the Fifth Amendment, is clear. Ruppert v.
Caffey, 251 U. S. 264, 301, and cases there cited.
We are unable -to say that the provision of the Sup-'
plemental Act is an arbitrary and unreasonable exercise
of the power vested in Congress by the Eighteenth
Amendment or that it is not "appropriate legislation"
for its bnforcement.
The decrees of te District Court are
Affirmed.

