UNITED LEATHER WORKERS v. HERKERT 457
5Syllabus.

to take his appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals and by
transfer get into this Court, and thus lengthen the time
f6r direct appeals to this Court from three to six months.
This result we can not assume Congress intended."
In view of this ruling, it is obvious that the failure in
the present case to sue out the writ of error until after
the expiration of three months from the entry of the
District Court's order deprve; this Court of jurisdiction
to entertain the writ, and that the trinsfer- of the*case
from the Circuit Court of- Appeals 'to this Court was
without sanction in the Act of 1922. We can only send
the case back to the Circuit Court of Appeals for its
disposition.
The motion'to dismiss is therefore denied, and the cause
is remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
UINITED LEATHER WORKERS INTERNATIONAL
UNION, LOCAL LODGE OR UNION NO. 66, ET
AL. v. HERKERT & MEISEL TRUNK COMPANY
ET AL.
APPFAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIG

CIRCUIT.

No.233. Argued April 24,25, 1924.-Decided June 9, 1924.
1. A strike by employees, intended to prevent through illegal picketing and intimidation of workers the continuea'maniufacture of
goods by their dnployer and having that effect, is not a conspiracy
to restrain interstate commerce, within the Anti-Trust Act, even
though the strikers know that the products when made are
he shipped in interstate commerce to fll orders already received
and accepted from the employer's customers in other States; provided there be no actual or attempted interference with the free
transport of the products, when manufactured, from the factory
to their destination in other States, or with their. sale in those
States. United Mine Workers v. Coronado Co., 259 U. S.344.
P. 464.

458

OCTOBER .EBM;. 1923.Argument for Appellees.

265 U.S.

2. The mere reduction -of the shpply,if an'arsicle to be shipped in.
interstate commerce, by illegal and "tortious preveition of its
manufacture, is oidinaiy an indirect snd remote obstruction to
tlt commerce; it is only whcn the
i-tent
or -the necessary effect
is to enatle those preventiig the ma.nufacture to monopolize the
supply, control prices, or discriminate as between would-be purchasem, that the unlawful-interferenci can be said diretly to
burden interstate commerce.' P. 471.
284 Fed. 446, reversed.
APP_ .Lfiom- a decree of'the Circuit Court'of Appeals
wlich affirmed a fla1 decree of the District Court,.granting an injunction in -a -suit- by divers maliufacturers of
trunks aind leather goods against s ring "employees and
labor unions.
Mr. JohnP. Leahy for appellants.

Mr. Charles A. Houts and Mr. Mat T. Holland, with
* whom Mr. Walter Gordon M mitt wah on the briefs, for
appellees.
The fonation of this conspiracy, and the acts done in
pursuance, thereof* were violative of the Anti-Trist Act,
because a direct restraint was intended and placed upon
-the interstate business of the plaintiffs.
* 'To accomplish this destruction the defendants had a
choice of means available. They coulct have boycotted
plaintiffs' goods in the hands of their customers. This
would -have been more difficult and less effective. Or
they could have attempted to prevent the transfer companies from hauling plaintiffs' goods to the railroads for
shipment. This they were probably not strong enough
to do, and besides, such a course would have brought them
into more certain conflict with. the police. Or they could
do, as they- did do, assailt and abuse those who desired
to continue'at work, and those who sought emaployment
with plaintiffs, and thereby prevent plaintiffs' factories
frqm opeiating. This latter was the eaiiest, safest and

UNITED LEATHER WORKERS v. HERKERT 459
4&i

Argument for Appo11ees:

most certain method of -destroying- plaintiffs' busine'ss."
It.was coinpletely successful .

The evidence conclusively 'estbishedthe- existence of
he conspiracr to' destr6 i'plaintiffs' interstate business,
.nd the unlawful means charged. Two couits have, so
found. See Washington S
itiWes.CJo. y. United States,.
234 U.S. 76. :Is a coiispiracy to ditroy an -esta~lished interstate
bisiness, by preventing the manufacture of goodc which"
are being sold and- shipped in -such interstate business,.
prohibited by the Sherman Act?.
-"
In Eastrm States - unbef Dedlers Assn. -v.United,
•tatei '234 U- S.600, this Court said: " It [the Sherman
Act] broadly 6ondemns all. c.mbinations and conspiracies
which restrain the free and natural flow of trade in the
6hannels of interstate commerce."
"The-purpose of § 1 of the act-was to prevent any direct
-and unreasonable interference 'with interstate commerce..
It condemns aiiy plan, scheme or device, adopted as a part
of a combin',tion di -conspiracy Which has that. effect.
*Eastern.States Lumber Assn. v. United Sftztes; 234 U. S.
600*; Northm Securities Co.zv. United States, 193 TJ. S."
197.: United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324.
The deductiQn to be made from these 6ases is that the
Sherman Act -'fi reach any act, however reniote (standing alone) it'may be frin,interstate commerce, if ifis
made an effective, part of a combinati6n to restrict such

commerce..
The pertinency of .these cases is made to appear when
the' reasoning of ,the appellants "in this case is kept in
mind. Their reasoning may be roughly stated -thus:,
.The-Sherman Act deals nly with interstate donimerce.
Manufacture is not interstate commerce.. Therefore, the
Sherman Act is not concerned with the toppage of Inaniufacture.. With equal propriety might the defendants .in
the Northern Securities' Co. CJase have reasoned:- The

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appelees.

265 U. S.

Sherman Act deals only with interstate commerce. The
purchase of shares of stock of interstate railroads is not
commerce. Therefore, the Sherman Act has no concern
with such purchase.
. The comprehensiveness of the Sherman Act is no longer
a question. It forbids any means by which a -combination or 'a conspiracy may seek to restrict interstate commerce. If stoppage of manufacture is resorted to as such
a means, the act prohibits it. PennsylvaniaSugar Refg.
Co. v. American Sugar Refg. Co., 166 Fed. 254; AtneriIan Column Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377; Loewe
v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; 'United States v. Workingmens
Council, 54 Fed. 994; United States v. Elliott, 62 Fed.
801; Thomas v. Rdilway, 62 Fed. 80p3; United States v.
Debs, 64 Fed. 724.
In Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, the boycott was
directed at the manufacturers' goods after transportation
had ended and the hats had lost their status as a part of
interstate commerce. They were boycotted as a means.
of destroying the interstate business of the manufacturers.
The means employed operated at one end, after transportation ceased. In this case they operated at the. other
end, before transportation commenced. The purpose in
each case was identical.
See Duplex Co. v. Deering,254 U. S. 443; Stafford v.
Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; United States v. Ferger, 250
U. S. 199; Lamar v. United States, 260 Fed. 561; s. c.
250 U. S. 673.
The conspiracy in United Mine Workers v. Coronado
Co., 259 U. S. 344, was between the union coal operators
and the International Union to restrain interstate commerce in coal and to monopolize it. As pointed out by
'Judge Sanborn, in the court below, the conspiracy alleged
and proved in the present case is entirely different from
that involved in the Coronado Case.
In Hammer v; Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251, the restrictions
placed on the manufacture of the goods had absolutely

UNITED LEATHER WORKERS v. HERKERT 461
457

Opinidn of the Court.

no effect upon the .goods themselves or upon the commerce into which they flowed, and the sole purpose of
the act was to regulate the employment of children within
the State.
In the present case the restraint imposed was not
negligible; it was complete as to all commerce flowing
from St. Louis in this particular line. It was not-.an indirect and incidental restraint on interstate commerce.
The conspiracy charged was one to destroy this interstate
business. The destruction of this business was the direct
object of the conspiracy. Both the District Court and
the Court of Appeals have so found. Such being its.
object, it cannot be said that the restraint was incidental.
The stoppage of plaintiffs' interstate commerce by the
means employed in this case was just as effectively a
restraint upon interstate commerce, and just as violative
of the Sherman Act, as would be the act of plaintiffs'
competitors in Chicago, for instance, should they, for the
purpose of destroying compe.tition, purchase the stock of
the plaintiff companies and by their control, thus secured,
stop the manufacture of all goods in plaintiffs' factories.
Mr. CHmr JusTicE T iv delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was begun by.a bill i-h equity filed in the District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri by the
Herkert & Meisel Truni Company and four others, all
corporations of Missouri, engaged in making trunks and

leather'goods in St. Louis, against the United Leather
Workers Union, Local Lodge or Union No. 66, an unincorporated association, its officers and agents and a number of its members. The bill averred that each of the
complainants had built up a valuable business in making,
selling and shipping in interstate commerce trunks and
leather goods, that each received large quantities of raw
material. by interstate commerce, and employed a large

462

-OGTOMER

TERM, 19?3.
Opuinn of the Court.

"

265 U. S.

number of pers6nsk mei and girls, that'on February.2
192b, defeildants demanded that their shops be uinionized
and conducted as closed shops and announced that if complainants refused.they would ruin the interstate commere
business of each of them, that on April 10, 1920, the defend"-"
-ants, acting individually and on behalf of th6 defendant
union, in order to. destroy the'camplainants' business and
"tQ~prevent'their employees from continuing in their em:
ploymgent unless coiaplainants would yield to their deLmands, began a strike, assaulted and threatened complainaits' employees, and .intimidated them so as to -force
them against their wills to cluit complainants' employ"ment,and that .they thereby prevented complainnts from.
engaging in and carrying 6n their interstate business and
interfered with and obstructed then in the'manufacture
*andshipment of the products of their faetories sold to be
shipped in interstate commerce. The bill charged that
"
- defendants were carying 'out theh illegal conspiracy and
purp6ses by mass picketing- and intimidatilon, that the
interference with complainants' interstate commerce was
intentional and alicious and was intended to.destroy'it,
that it was in violation of the Anti-Trust Law and theClayton Act, and 'that they had already inflicted, imd
- unless rbstrdined would continue 'to inflict, irreparable
injury upon such.' business. The bill shows that each
complainant's damage. threatened exceeded three thousand.dollis. The prayer was for a-temporary and then a
final injunction to prevent the intimidation, illegal picket-"
mag and other interference withi comiplainants' iian'ufacturingand interstate busmines' and with their emnployees or
would-be emloyees engaged in carrying it on. Certiin
of the defendants answered the bill and denied the picketing, intimidation, and violence and the purpose to interfere with complainants' interstate business as charged,
and :,v-errd that they iand tho fellow members -of the
Uion had 4wfidly quit the employment of complainants.

UNITED- LAT:hR WORKIRS v. HER
*457

T -4Q3

Opinion oiftbe CoUrt.

because they'could not agree upon the ternis of. a new
agredment. The-Dishtrict Court upon preliminary hear*ing granited a7 iemporary injunction "andupon, final -hMarifig granted a.fifial deleree enjoi ig defendantg as prayed.
The case -was taken on apliea to the Circuit Court of
Appeals where the decree, of the ".District Court- was
affirmed, one Judge dissentinj. 284 Fed. 446. The cause
now comes.before us on appeal under.§ 241, Judicial Code.
The evidence adduced before the District Court showed
that the defefidant, the Local Union No. 66 of the United
• Leather Workers, having declared a strike against-the
complainants and withdrawn its members from their
employ, instituted'an illegal picketing- campaign of intimidation against their .employees who were willing to"
remain and against.dthers willing to take the places of
the striking employees, that the effect of -this"campaign
was to prevent the complaifiants from continuing -to manufacture their goQds needed to fill the .orders they
had'received fro.m regular customers and jwould-be pur-"
chasers in other States, that such orders covered-ninetyper cent. of -all goods manufactuted by complainants,
that the. charater of their business was known to the
defendants, and that the illegal strike campaign bf de-.
fendants thus interfered with and obstructed complainants' interstate commerce business to their great loss.
There was no evidence whatever to show that complainants were obstructed by the strike or the strikers in shipping to other States the products they:had ready to ship
6-F'in their receipt of materials from other States needed
to make ther gobdt. While the bill averred that defendants had instituted a boycott against complainants.
and were prosecuting the -me by illegal methods, there
wa no evidence vhatever that any attempt was made to
boycott the sale.of the .complainants' products in other
States dr a-ywhere or to interfere with their interstate
shipments of goods ready to ship.

464'

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

The sole question here is whether a strike against
manufacturers 'by their employees, intended by the
strikers to prevent, through illegal picketing and inthmidation, continued manufacture, and having such effect,
was a conspiracy to restrain interstate commerce under*
the Anti-Trust Act because such products when made
were, to the knowledge of the strikers, to be shipped in
interstate commerce to fill orders given and accepted by
would-be purchasers in other States, in the absence of
evidence that the strikers interfered or attempted to interfere with the free transport and delivery of the products when manufactured from the factories to their destination in other States, or with their sale in those
States.
We think that this question has aifeadO been answered
in the negative by this Court. In United Mine Workers
v. Coronado Co., 259 U.. S. 344, a coal mining company
in Arkansas changed its arrangement*with its employees,
from a closed shop to an open shop. The local union
resented the change and the avowed purpose of-the company to protect non-union employees by 8xmed guards.
Violence, murder and arson *ere resorted to by.the union.
Seventy-five per'cent. of the output of the mine was to be
shipped out of the State and a car of coal prepared for
interstate shipment was destroyed By the mob of strikers
and their sympathizers. It was contended that, as the
result of the conspiracy was to reduce the interstate shipment of cbal from the mines by 5,000 tons or more a week,
this conspiracy was directeii against interstate comnierce,
-and triple damages for the-injury inflicted could be recovered under. the Federal Anti-Trdst Law. But this
-- Court held otherwise and reversed a judgment *for a
large-amount on the ground that the evidence did not
displose a conspiracy against interstate commerce, justifying recovery under the law. The language of the Court
was (p. 407):

UNITED LEATHER WORKERS v. ERKERT .465
457.

Opinion of the Court.

"Coal mining is not interstate commerce, and the
power of Congress does not extend to its regulation'as
such.. In Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, 272, wd
said: 'The making of goods and the mining .of coal are
not commerce, nor does the fact that these things are to
be afterwards shipped or used in interstate commerce,
make their production a part thereof. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Ca. v. Yurkonis, 238 VU. S. 439.'.
Obstruction to coal mining is not a direct obstruction to
interstate commerce in coal, although'it, of course, may
affect it by reducing the amount of coal to be carried in
that commerce." The same rule was followed in Gable
v. Vonnegut Machinery Co., 274 Fed. 66, 73; 74.
The same-general principles are affirmed in Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245, 259; Crescent Oil
Co. v. Mississippi,257 U. S. 129, 136; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 151;
McCluskey "v. Marysvlle Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 36, 38;
Diamond Glue Co. v. U. S. Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611, 616;
CapitalCity Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 1683 U. S. 238, 245; United
States v. E. C.-Knight .Co., 156 U. S. 1, 12, 13; Kidd 4..
Pearson, 128 U. "S. 1, 20, 21; Coe v. Pirrol, 116 U. S.*

.517, 528.
The Circuit Court of Appeals seems first to have based
its conclusion on cases like Rearick v. Pennsylvpnia, 203
U. S. 507; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622;
Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; and Robbins v.
Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 497. These dealt
directly with the- sale of goods in interstate commerce.
They were casesof state taxation upon the solicitation and
acceptance of orders of goods to be sent from one State to
another. The subject matter taxed was contracts of saleproposed or made for deliveries of goods in interstate commerce. It is a far cry from such cases to a strike to induce the employers to make better terms with their employees when no interference with the transportation or

.466

.466 CT6BM TrERM, 1928.
-

O-i:on of the Court:

-65U.S.

future sale of the.goods by the strikers is.attenipted or shown.
The Circuit .Court ofAppeals found further justification.
for its, conclusion in cases likelEureka Pip' "Liie.Co. v.
HaI.nlizi, 257 U. S. 265, United Fuel.GasCo..v. Hallanan,
257 U. S. 277, Dahnke-WalkerMilling Co. -i. Bbndurant,
257 U. S. 282, and Lemke v. FarmersGrain Co., 258 U. S.50. They present the practical conception" of iiiterstate
commerce elaborated in Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U.,'S. 375, hereafter to bediscussed, -as& flowing stream.
created~by a c6urse of business to be protected against
State invasion, but it must be -a real- and direct invasion
"nd not something. incidental -or remote. Thus in the
" Pipe Line Company and Gas Company Cases, the State
of West Virginia sought .to tax..a st.iea- of oil and gas
-"flowing constantly through the State and-out of it. It
* 'sjheld that the mere.power of those wiho directed the
-stream to-divert it from interstate 6ommerce whbn as acourse of business. it was donstantly interitate with only
incidental ana minor diversions to intrastate*coninerce,
did not: expose.to the*taxing power of the StUte that.part
of the flow whidh crossed 'sta.te lines.' The burden and
invasion of interstate commerce was direct. In the Bondprant Case, a Tennessee Milling Company bought a
crop f grah in .Kentucky, to be delivered on bohrd.the
cars in Kentucky for shipment to 'Teinessee in accord
with-a; course of busiiess between the parties. It was
held that an effort by the State of Kentucky. to require
a license of -the Teiinessee Company"before it could buy
"nd.sb.p grain -fromKentucky to Tennosee was a burden
,n,and invasion of, interstate coiimerce even though.the
Milling C mpany might have stopped the. giain in Kentuc'y contrary to'the usual course.
. In Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., a state law of North
Dakota subjected the purchase price of all grain flowing
in a' regular course of business from that State to the;

UNITED LEATHER WORKERS v. HERKERT -467
47

-

Opinion of the Court.

market 'in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to a, North Dakota-.
inspector whQ was required'.o fix the price and detbrmine
thereby the profit the buyer should make"after payiig
the freight to Minneapolis at :he maikV price in that
_city. This was held to be a; direct burden and restraint
upon the interstate commerce in the grain from one
•State to the other. It was a- direct limitation on that
commere:"
None of these cases, although t.ey all illustrate the
practica conception of interstate'commerce as a flowing
stream from one State to another formed by a regular
course of business, can, properly be said to'support the
argument that mere intentional, cutting down of manufacture or prodiction is a. direct restrabit of commerce
in the-product intended to be shipped -ihen'ready, or
to be any departuqre from the general rule last announced
in the. Coronado Case and .uiformlyapplied in ]f the
cases referred to above, which* it followed. The effectupon interstate commerce. in the four cases just cited
on the other hand was directly burdensome. and restraining.
Then the Circuit Court of Appeals found sustaining
precrdent in 8wift'& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.

In .aat case the defendants were charged with a con-^
spiracy to monopolize interstate commerce in cattle, step
by step from the purchase of them on the western plains,
in. he transportation of them by the railroads through
to the stockyards at CAcgo, their sale and distribution
there, their slaughte and prepaiation as "meats in the
packing houses of that bity ..nd their distribution and
sale in the East. Thih Court-held. that suclia conspiracy
was'a violation of-the Federal Anti-Trust Law. because it
was an intended obstruction to the flow of interstate cqmmerce which Congress in the Anti-Trust Law intended to
keepfree and untrammeled. It held that te intent tomo-

nopolize and restrain the stream of inter.tate commerce

-

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

and the probability that by such methodi and steps as
vvere attempted the purpose of the conspiracy could be
effected, brought the whole machinery of the conspiracy
within the federal jurisdiction. The case rested wholly
on the probably -effective intent of the conspirators directed against interstdte commerce.
The case of the Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 211, was an agreement between those who made
and solal iron pipe in different States to fix prices as between themselves and not sell and deliver pipe from their
fouhdriei across state lines in competition with each other.
Their intent and ability to control prices and prevent
the public from having the benefit -of -competition in
interstate trade brought them within .the Federal AntiTilst ActSo in the case of Montague & Co. v. Lo&fry, 193 U. S.
38,-manufacturers in eastern States of. tiles and grates
areed with manufacturers and dealers in California not
to sell tiles and grates to local.dealers who would not agree
to keep up prices. The intent to control commerce between the eastern States and local dealers in California,
and thus to maintain prices, was held to ionstitute a.
conspiracy in restraint of interstate commerce.
On the:other hand, Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S.

578, Anderson v. Unite4 States, 171 U. S. 604, and United
-States.v.E. C. Knight eo., 156 U. S. 1, were held not to
come within the Federal Anti-Trust Law because the*
facts of those cases were not thought .to reveal the probably effective intent directly to compass the restraint on
interstat commerce.,
The Knight Case has been looked upon by many as
qualified -bysubsequent decisions of this Court. The.case
is to be sustained only by the view that there was no proof
of steps to be taken with intent to monopolize or restrain
interstate cominerce in sugar, but only proof of the ac-"
quisition of stock in sugar manufacturing companies to
-

-

UNITED LEATHER WORIERS v. HERKERT 469457

Opinion of the Court.

control its making As intimated in the Swift Case (196
U. S. 397), the Knight Case was very near the line. See
also the distinction pointed 6ut by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in Pennsylvania Sugar Refg. Co. v. American

Sugar Refg. Ca., 166 Fed. 254, 256, between that case
and the Knight Case. The Knight Case emphasizes the
-difference between manufacture und interstate commerce.
But the Knight .Case was a. far stronger case for federal
jurisdiction under the Anti-Trust Law, because of the
probable relation between the monopoly of manufacture
and sale in interstate commerce, than the case at bar, in
which there is present no element, of intended and probable monopoly or discrimination in interstale 'oinmerce.
The same element .was lacking in the Coronado Case.
In Loewe -. Lawlor, 208 U. S.'274, and in Duplex Co.
v. Deering,254 U. S. 443, members of labor unions having a controversy with their employers sought to embarrass the.sales by their employers of the product of their
manufacture in other States by boycott aid otherwise.
They were held guilty of a conspiracy against interstatecommerce because of their palpable intent to achieve their
purpose by direct obstruction of that .commerce."
The cases of St&fford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, and
Chicga Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U:'S. 1, are also
supposed in some way to sustain -the view that atstrike
against the manufacture of commodities intended to be
shipped in interstate commerce is a conspiracy against
that commerce. What-those cases decided was that when
Congress found from investigation that more or less constant abusive practices and. a course of business, usually.
- only within state police cognizance, threatened to obstruct*
or unduly to burden the freedom of interstate commerce:
it could by law institute supervision of such 'course o'
business in order to prevent the abuses having such effed'.

As said in Stafford v. Wallace (p. 520):

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1923..
Opniori'of the Court.

265 U. S.

"The reasonable fear by Congress 'tat such acts, usually lawful and affecting only intrastate commerce when
considered alone, wi l probably and more or less constantly be used in conspiracies against interstate com.merce or constitute a direct and undue burden on it,
expressed in this remecWl legislation, serves the same
purpose as the-intent charged in the Swift indictment to.
bring acts of a similar chara.cter into the current of intei'state commerce for federal restraint."
In United States.v. Patten,226 U. S. 525, 543, running a
corner in the avcailable supply of a'staple commodity, normally the-subject of interstate commerce, in order to enhance its price artificially in the whole cointry, although
the corner was carried on only in New York by'sale of cotton futures, was held to be a monopoly of interstate commerce in vi~latiorr of the Federal Anti-Trust Act. It was
the intent to inonopolize such commerce and its prbbability of success" which sustained the indictment.
In the Coronado Case, supra, (p.410), this Court referred to the Patten Case and the difference between that
and the Coronado Case as follows:
"The diference between. the Patten Case and that of
Ware & Leland v. Mobile Count!); 209 U. S. 405, illustrates a distinction to be drawn in cases which do not'in-volve interstate commerce intrinsically but which may or
iiay not be regarded"as affecting interstate commerce so
.directly as to be within the federal regulatory power. In
the Ware & Leland Case,the question was whether a State
could tax the business of a.broker dealing in contracts for.the future delivery of cotton where there was no obligation to ship from one State to al.other. The tax was sustained and dealing in cotton futures was 'held not to be
interstate commerce, and yet thereafter such dealings in
cotton futures as'were alleged in the Patten Case.where
they were part -of a conspiracy to bring the entire cotton
trade within its influence, were held to be in restraint of

UNITED LEATHER WORKERS v. iiERKERT 471
457

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce. And so in the case at bar, coal mining is not interstate commerce and obstruction of coal
mining, though it may prevent coal from going into interstate commerce, is not a restraint of that commerce
unless the obstruction to mining is intended to restrain
commerce in it or has necessarily such a direct, material
and substantial effect to restrain it that the intent reasonably must be inferred."
This review of the cases makes it clear that the mere
reduction in the supply of an article to .be shipped in
interstate commerce, by the illegal or tortious prevention
of its manufacture, is ordinarily an indirect and remote
obstruction to that commerce. It is only when the intent or necessary effect upon such commerce in the article
is to enable those preventing the manufacture to monopolize the supply, control its price or discriminate as between its would-be purchasers; that the unlawful interference with its manufacture can be said directly to burden
interstate commerce.
The record is entirely without evidence or circumstances
to show that the defendants in their conspiracy to deprive
the complainants of their workers were thus directing
their scheme against interstate commerce. It is true that
they were, in this labor controversy, hoping that the loss
of business in slling goods would furnish a motive to the
complainants to yield to demands in respect to the terms
of employment;, but they did nothing which in any way
directly interfered with the interstate transportation or
sales of the complainants' product. "
We concur with the dissenting Judge in the Circuit
Court of Appeals when, in speaking of the conclusion of
the majority, he said: "The natural, logical and inevitable
result will be that every strik'e in any industry or even
in any single factory will be within the Sherman Act and
subject to federal jurisdiction provm.ded any appreciable
aniount of its product enters into interstate commerce."
(284 Fed. 446, 464.)

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

265 U.S.

- We can not think that Congress intended any such result in the enactment of the Anti-Trust Act or that the
decisions of this Court warrant such construction.
Decree reversed.

ML J uSaC McKE A, MuR. JUSTicE Vxw D.vA-NTR,
and AIR. JusTCE BumnR, dissent.
UNITED STATES v. TITLE INSURANCE & TRUST
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TH1E
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 358. Argued February 28, 1924.-Deided June 9, 1924.
1. Where there are two grounds upon either of -which an appellate
court may rest-its decision, and it adopts both, the ruling on
neither is obiter dictum, but each is the judgment of the court,
and of equal validity. P. 486.
2. A long-standing decision of a doubtful question, which hai become a rule of property affecting many land titles, should not be
disturbed. Id.
3. The United States sied to establish a perpetual right of Mission
Indians to use, occupy and enjoy part of a confirmed Mexican land
grant in California, claiming that the right originated before the
grant was made, and had been merted by open, notorious and
adverse occupancy ever since. The grant had long before been
confirmed, and patented by The United States to defendants' predecessorsi under the Act of March 3, 1851, c. 41, 9 Stat. 631, which
provided for adjudication'of private land claims by a commission,
with review by the District Court and this Court, and declared
that claims not presented to the commission within two years
should be deemed abandoned and that patents issued on confirmed
claims should be conclusive between the United States and the
claimants but should not " affect the interests of third persons."
- The claim of the -Indians was never presented td the commission
by them or by the United States on their behalf. Hed, on the
authority of Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481, that the claim of
the Indians was abandoned. Id.
288 Fed. 821, affirmed....

