WONG D00 . UNITED STATES.

239

Opinion of the Court.

WONG D00 v. UNITED STATES.-.
CER'IORARI TO

HE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXT

CIRCUIT.

No. 736. Argued April 10, 1924.-Decided May 26, 1924.

1. Thg strict -doctrine of res judieoato does not apply to habeas corpus.
Salinger v. Loisel, cte, 224. P. 241.
2. But the court, in its sound discretion, may dismiss a petition for
habeas corpus because of a prior refusal, when the ground for the
second application was set up, with another, in the first, and when
the evidence to support it then was withheld without excuse for
use on a second attempt if the first failed. Id.
3. Where unreasonable delays have been caused by resort to habeas
corpus proceedings, the mandate of th%-Court wi issue forthwith.

Id.
293 Fed. 273, affirmed.

CIRioxm to a judgment of the Circuit Court.of Appeals afflring a decision dismissing a petition for habeas
corpus.
Mr. WMlliaom J. Dawley and Mr. Jackso H. Ralston,
with whom Mr. George W. Hott was o the briefs, for
petitioner:
Mr. George Ross Hul, Special Assistant to the Attor-

ney General, with whom Mr. SoliciMtor General Beck was
on the brief, for the'United States.
MR. Jusnon V-w DEvANE. delivered the opinion of
*the Court.
This is a second petition for a writ of habeas corpus by
a Chinese in custody under an order of deportation issued
under ยง 19 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917,.
c. 29, 39 Stat. 874.
In the firsmt petition the validity of the order was
assailed on two grounds: one that the Secretary of Labor

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

issued it without lawful jurisdiction, and the other that
the administrative hearing on which it rested was not
adequate or fair but essentially arbitrary. The return,
besides answering the first ground, denied there was in
fact any basis for the second. At the hearing in the
District Court on these issues the petitioner offered no
proof in support of the second ground. The court ruled
that the first was not good in law, remanded the petitioner
and dismissed his petition. He appealed to the Circuit
Court of-Appeals, and it affirmed the decision.
Later the second petition was presented to the same
District Court. In it the petitioner relied entirely on
the second ground set forth before. There was some
elaboration in stating it, but no enlargement of the substance. The petitioner sought to distihguish the two
petitions by alleging-in the second that the earlier one was
"based solely" on the jurisdictional objection; but that
allegation was not true. The return in the second case
fully denied the charge that the administrative hearing
was inadequate, unfair and arbitrary; set up the prior
petition and the proceedings thereon, and prayed a dismissal .of the second petition.
After a hearing, the District Court ruled that the doctrine of res judicata applied; held the decision in the first
case was conclusive in the second; remanded the petitioner,-and dismissed the petition. 283 Fed. 989. On an
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals that decision was
affirmed. 293 Fed. 273.
In Salinger v. Loisel, just decided, ante, 224, we held
that in the federal courts the doctrine of res judicatadoes
not apply to a refusal to discharge a prisoner on habeas
corpus; but that in those courts, where the prisoner presents a second petition, the weight to be given to the prior
refusal is to be determined according to a sound judicial
discretion guided and controlled by a consideration of
whatever has a rational bearing on the subject.

WONG DOO v. UNITED STATES.
239

241

Opinion of the Court.

It therefore must be held that in this case the courts
below erred in applying the inflexible doctrine of res
judicata. But it does not follow that the judgment
should be reversed; for it plainly appears that the situation was one where, according to a sound judicial discretion, controlling weight must have been given to the prior
refusal. The only ground on which the order for deportation was assailed in the second petition had been set up
in the first petition. The petitioner had full opportunity
to offer proof of it at the hearing on the first petition;
and, if he was intending to rely on that ground, good faith
required that he produce the proof then. To reserve the
proof for use in attempting to support a later petition, if
the first failed, was to make an abusive use of the writ of
habeas corpus. No reason for not presenting the proof
at the outset is offered. It has not been embodied in the
record, but what is said of it there and in the briefs shows
that it was accessible all the time. If an alien whose
deportation has been ordered can do what was attempted
here, it is easy to see that he can postpone the execution
of the order indefinitely. Here the execution 9lready has
been postponed almost four years.
We conclude that the judgment was right, although a
wrong reason was given for it. The delay resulting from
the course pursued by the petitioner has been unreasonable; so the mandate from this Court will issue forthwith.
Judgment affirmed.

