640

SUPREME

COURT.

Hardeman et al. r. Anderson.

between the States, and consequently that the bill ought to be dismissed.
I concur, therefore, in the decree just pronounced, and as I do
not dissent from the decree, ,4 is unnecessary, to state more fully
aiy objection to the doctrines upoA
than I have heretofore don&
which jurisdiction was maintained.
Deciding the case, so far as J am concerned, upon this point, I
of course express no opinion upon thi merits of the controversy;
ana4 have not even deemed it necessary to be present at the elaborate
arguments upon the evidence which- have been made at the present term. For if Rhode Island bad proved herself to be justly
and clearly entitled to exercise sovereignty and dominion over the
territory in question, and the people who inhabit it, yet my judgment
must still havebeen, that thebill should be dismissed, upon the groupd
that this court,-under the Gonstitution of the United States, have not
the power to try such a question between States, or redress such a
wrong, even if the wrong is proved to have been done.

W.uLAx H

rnaxrm "D D. I-IAWE!A,

PLAnImrrs i
EDWARD ArDwrRsoN, DEFENDANT.

ERRoR, v.

After a case has been docketed and dismissed under the fbrty-third rule of court
And the plaintiffin error sues out another writ of error this court will, when the
case appears to require it, order a supersedeas to stay all proceedings pending the
second-writ of error.
The supersedeas is issued under the fourteenth section of the act of the 24th of September, 1783.

Tais was a writ of error from the Pircuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
At the preceding tenh of this court, namely, on the 28th of February, 1845, .Mr.Howard, on behalf of the difendant in error,
moved for leave to file a certificate that a writ of error had been
sued out, and for an order to docket and dismiss the case under the
frty-third rule of court.
This order was accordingly passed, and at the close of the term,
no record having been filed hy the plaintiffs in error, the case was
dimissed.*
At thd present term, ,Mr. Crittenden, counsel for the plaintiffs
in error, filed the following affidavit, namely :&outhernDistrictof .Missiptp.
" This day William Hardeman personally appeared before me,
commissioner, &c., for taking affidavits in civil cases, &c., and
made bath; that some time during the last summer, and many months
"UNITED STATES or AmERICA,

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

641

Hardeman et al. v. Andersom

previous to the session of the present term of the Supreme Court
of the United States, he applied to the clerk of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, to
know what he should do in relation to the record in the case of
Edward Anderson against the said Hardeman and others, on a writ
of error from said Circuit Court, and the said clerk then told this
affiant that he would prepare and send up to the Supreme Court of
the United States the transcript of the record in said'cause, and
that all affiant would have to do wotild be to procure sureties for
costs of suit in the Supreme Court. Trusting to this, and fully believing that said'transcript would be dluly sent up by the clerk to the
Supreme Court, this afiant applied to Daniel W. Dickenson, a
member of Congress, and amply solvent, to become his surety for
the costs of the Supieme Court, which he promised to do. The said
Dickenson was taken sick, and, as he informed affiant, had written
to Joseph H. Peyton and Mr. Rayner, members of Congress, to
become the sureties for costs. Affiant ha been informed this day
for the first time, by his counsel in the Circuit Court, that the
transcript of said record had not been -forwarded by the clerk as
aforesaid. Affiant sends the same accompanying this affidavit, and
prays that said record be filed and the case docketed, and if said
suit be dismissed, that the same be set aside, the record filed, and
the ease docketed.
WILL. HARDEMAN."
" Sworn to and subscribed before me on the-26th day of February, A. D. 1845.
THOS. SHACKELFORD,
United States Commissioner of .Affidavits, 4,c.,
for the Southern Districtof elississippi."
Air. Crittenden thereupon submitted the following motion,
viz. :"ARDEMAN

ET AL. V. ANDERSON.

"1This case was depending before this court at its last term,
upon writ of error operating as a supersedeas, and wag then dismissed because the record was not filed. The cause of the failure
to file is acounted for and explained in the affidavit now submitted
to the court. The affidavit was received here within a few days
after the close of the last term, and too late, of course, to make the
intended motion to set aside the dismission. Sined then, the plaintiffs have sued out another writ of error, and executed another bond,
&c., but this not operating, per se, as . supersedeas, the plaintiffs
are exposed to execution on the judgment below ; they therefore
move the court for a supersedeas," &c.
This motion was sustained by ,r. Crittenden, who coitended'
that the plaintiffs in error had used all reasonable exertion to have
the record brought up in time, and referred to the case of Stockton et al. v. Bishop, 2 Howard, 74
VOL. IV.

81

B2*

642

SUPREME COURT.
Hardeman e't al. v. Anderson.

Mr. Howard opposed the motion. It did not appear that all
reasonable exertion had been used by the party. The judgment
appealed from was given in May, 1840, and the case was not docketed and dismissed until February, 1845. In the mean time, the
plaintiff in error apipears to have relied upon the clerk of the court
below to send the record up. The effort to obtain security for
costs was very faint. If such reasons are allowed to be sufficient
to reinstate a case after dismissal under the rule, the rule itself may
as well be abolished. Certainly, a court which passes a rule has
power to relax it whenever a proper occasion shall offer. But this
motion does not apply to a case which has been dismissed. It is
not to reinstate that case, but it is to call forth the power of the
court in another case, upon another writ of error. The act of Congress divides appeals into two classds, giving to them very different
rights. Where the party is diligent, and prosecutes his writ of'error
without delay, the law gives a supersedeas. But if he is dilatory,
the law is reluctant to deprive him of the benefit of in appeal, but
subjects him to the risk of an execution. Thus the rights of creditor and debtor are both protected. But in order to prevent a vexatious and lingering suit, and to supply an omission in the act, a
rule of court compels the appellant to prosecute his suit under the
penalty of dismissal by an application from the appellee. The appellant has his choice, either to prosecute his appeal with or without
the benefit of a supersedeas, and the act of Congress has made a
clear distinction between these two modes. But the present motion is to take a "case out of one of these classes, and put it in the
other.
The case of Stockton v. Bishop does not apply, because every
step required by the act of Congressbvas taken in that case ; and
this court not only..can, but ought to, protect cases which are in
regular progress towards it, according to all the forms of law.
Mr.. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court, directing the following order to be passed.
WM. AND D. HARDEMAN Ar-D WM. P. PERKINS, PLAINTIFrS
IN ERROR, V. EDWARD ANDERSON.

On consideration bf the. motion made in this cause on a prior day
of the present term of this court, to wit, on Friday the 9th instant,
by Mr. Crittenden, of counsel for the plaintiEs in error, for a writ
of supersedeas to stay execution on the judgment below in this
cause, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as well against
as in support of the motion, it is the opinion of this court that a
supersedeas should be allowed, under the general powers conferred upon this court by the fourteenth section of the act of
the 24th of September, 1789, leaving the question, whether a writ
of er'ror will lie to the judgment in this case, an open one. Where-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Hardeman et al. v. Anderson.

upon it is now here considered and ordered by this court, that a
writ of supersedeas be and the same is hereby awarded, commanding the judgesof the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi to stay any execution or proceedigs on the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this case" pending this writ of error, and also command the marshal of the United
States for the said district that from every and all proceedings on
execution or in any wise molesting the said plaintiffs in error on account of the said judgment, he entirely surcease, the same being superseded.
26th Javuary, 1846.
Supersedeas.
UNITED STATES OF AMERIcA, 8dt.:

The President of the United States of America to the Honorable the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United
[sr.IL.] States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and to
the Marshal of the United States for the said District,
Greeting :
Whereas, lately, in the said Circuit Court before you, the said
judges, or some of you, in a cause lately pending in said court between Edward Anderson, plaintiff, and William Hardeman and D.
Hardeman, defendants, a judgment was rendered by the said Circuit Court, at the May term, 1839, of said court, in favor of the
said plaintiff, and against the said defendants, for the sum of
$ 8,293-45, with interest thereon at the rate of eight per centurn
per annum, together with costs and charges of suit, on which judgment an execution of fierifacias issued, and was levied by the marshal of said district on certain property of said defendants, which
property was left in the hands of the defendants upon their executing a forthcoming bond, with one W. P. Perkins as security,
and which forthcoming bond was returned by The said marshal to
the said Circuit Court at the next November term thereof, A. D.
1839, "Forfeited," having thereby, according to-the laws of Missis.
sippi, the force and effect of a judgment against the said defendants
and the said security for the aforesaid debt, interest, and costs, and
upon which last-mentioned judgment an execution offierifaciaswas
issued against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of the said
William Hardeman, D. Hardeman, and W. P. Perkins, for the
amount of the said judgment, interest, and costs, as aforesaid, as
also for the sum of $ 133"81 additional costs subsequently ac 6ruing ; upon which execution, the aforesaid marshal returned that he
had received thereon " $ 9,125 in Union money, or post notes of
the Union Bank," which said return of the- marshal last aforesaid
the said Circuit Court, at a subsequent term, to wit, on the 20th of
May, A. D. 1840, set aside, and awarded an alias fieri facias on
the judgment last aforesaid. Whereupon, the said Win. Harde-

644

SUPREME COURT.
Hardeman et al. v. Anderson.

man, D. Hardeman, and W. P. Perkins sued out'a writ of error
in due form of law and in proper time, and filed their bond in error,
with sufficient security approved by one of the judges of the said
Circuit Court, so as to operate per s8 as a supersedeas, and which
said writ of error was abated and quashed by the order of this
court on the 28th day of February, A. D. 1845, by virtue of the
forty-third rule of court, in consequence of the failure of the aforesaid plaintiffs in error to file a transcript of the record of the case
with the clerk of this court, and to have their case docketed, in compliance with the rules of court. Whereupon, the aforesaid plaintiffs in error sued out another writ of error in due form of law, filed
theif bond in error in a sum double the amount of the aforesaid
judgment, with sufficient security approved by one of the judges
of the aforesaid Circuit Court, and a citation having been regularly
taken out, served upon the defendant in error, and duly returned,
as by the inspection of the transcript of the record of the said Circuit Court, which was brought into the Suprerme Court of the
United States by virtue of said writ of error, agreeably to the act
of Congress in such case made and provided, fully and at large appears. And whereas, in the present term of December, in the
year of our Lord eighteen hundred and forty-five, it is made to appear, on affidavit to the. said Supreme Court of the United States,
that the failure of the aforesaid plaintiffs in error to file the transcript
,of the record and docket the writ of error first aforesaid mentioned,
and which operated, ptr se, as a supersedeas, was not owing to any
neglect or fault on their part, but wholly attributable to the neglect
of the clerk of the said Circuit Court to- make out in due time,
aid as requested by the said plaintiffs in error, a transcript of the
record, as alleged in said affidavit, and that in consequence ithereof
they are exposed to an execution .on the aforesaid judgment. It is
thereupon now here ordered by this court, that a writ of supersedeas be, and the same is, hereby awarded, to be directed to the
aforesaid marshal, commanding and enjoining him and his deputies
to stay any and all proceedings upon any execution which may have
been issued on the aforesaid judgment of the said Circuit Court in
said case, and which has or may come to his hands, and that he
return any such execution with the writ of supersedeas to the said
Circuit Court, and that the judges of the- paid Circuit Court cause
any such writ of execution to be stayed, and to stay any execution
or further proceedings of every kind and character on the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this case, pending the aforesaid.
writ of error in this court.
You, therefore, the Marshal of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, are hereby commanddd, that from
every and all proceedings on any execution on the aforesaid judgment, or in any wise molesting the said defendants- on the account
aforesaid, you entirely surcease, as being superseded, and that you

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

645

Holliday; et al. v. Batson et al.

do. forthwith return any-such execution in your hands, together
with this supersedeas, to the said Circuit Court, as you will answer the contrary at your peril. And you, the judges of the
said Circuit Court, are hereby commanded to stay any execution
which may have issued as-aforesaid, and to stay any execution or
further proceedings on the aforesaid judgment of the said Circuit C6urt in this case, pending the writ of error last afoiesaid ino
this court.
Witness the Honorable ROGER B. TANEY, Chief
Justice of said Supreme Court, this 27th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and forty-six.
WM. THOS.
CARROLL,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States.

RoBERT HoLrvAY

T At. v. JQsEPH N. BATSOx ET AL.

In order to entitle a party to have a case docketed and dismissed, under the fortythird rule of court, the certificate of the clerk of the court below must set forth
an accurate titling of the case.

Barton having filed and read in open court a certificate in
.Mr.
writing, in the following words and figures, to wit :" Clerk's Office, Circuit Court, United States, 5th Circuit, and
IkAtern Districtof Louisiana.
CROBERT HOLLIDAY ET AL. V. JOSEPH N. BATSON ET AL.

"In the above-entitled cause, I certify that a final judgment was
rendered in the Circuit Court of the Unied States for the 9th
(now 5th) Circuit and Eastern District of Louisiana, on the twentieth day of January, eighteen hundred and forty-one, and that a
writ of error was taken by the defendants, returnable to the January
term, 1842, of the Supreme Court of the United States.
"Witness my hand, and the seal of said court, at New Orleans,
this 4th February, 1845.
[SEAL.]

DUNCAN N. HENNEN, Clerk."

and moved the court to docket and dismiss the said writ of
error, under the forty-third rule of court. It is thereupon now
here considered and ordered by the court, that the said motion be)
and the same is, hereby overruled, the titling of the case in the said
certificate being too vague and uncertain.
Per Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
The above motion was made and overruled at the preceding

