JANUARY TERM, 1846.

/37

Beals v. Hale.
THOxAS

Bn tLs,

PLAiNTiu,

v.

FELICITE HALE, DEFENDANT.

There were two statutes of the State of Michigan, both passed on the same day,
namely, the 12th of April, 1827. One was "An Act concerning Deeds and Conveyances," which directed that such deeds or conveyances should be recorded
in the office of register of probate for the county, or register for the city, where
such lands, &a., were situated. This act became operative from its passage.
Another was "An Act concerning Mortgages," which provided "that every mortgage, being proven or acknowledged according to law, may be registered in the
county in which the lands or tenements so mortgaged are Vituated." This act
did not go into operation until several months after its passage.
In the case in question, there were two mortgages, both including the same property, in the city of Detroit, Wayne county, one of which was recorded in the
city registry, and the other in the county registry.
These-statutes are not so contrary or repugnant to each other as necessarily to imply a contradiction. Both can stand.
The recording of the prior mortgage in the county registry was sufficient to give it
validity and priority.
Statutes which apparently conflict with each other are to be reconciled, as far as
may be, on any fair hypothesis, and validity given to each if it can be and is
necessary to conform to usages under them, or to preserve the titles to property
undisturbed.

THIS case came up on a certificate -of division in opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Michigan.
It was an ejectment, brought by the plaintiff, Thomas Beals, a
citizen of New York, against Felicite Hale, the defendant, a citizen of the State of Michigan. Nathaniel 'Weed, Harvey Weed,
and Henry W. Barnes were, on application, permitted to defend
their title to the premises, claiming that the said Felicite Hale was
their tenant, and in possession under them.
The facts in the case are set forth in the special verdict of the

jury, which was as follows.
"Issue being joined in this case, and the parties present, by
their respective attorneys, hereupon comes a jury, to wit : John C.
Mundy, Alanson Sherwood, William P. Patrick, Albert Bennet,
Robert Rumney, Austin Stocking, Sylvester Granger, Garry
Spencer, John Bour, James Beaubien, Tunis S. Wendell, and
James Cicotte, senior, who, being empanelled and sworn to try
the issue joined in this cause, and after having heard the evidence
adduced therein, find specially the following facts, and say: That John Hale was, on the thirteenth day of November, in the
-year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty eight,
seized and possessed in his own right of said lots number sixteen, seventeen, and eighteen, in the city of Detroit, county of
Wayne, and (then Territory, now) State of Michigan.

"1That, being so seized and possessed of the said premises,
he, the said John Hale, and Felicite Hale, his wife, executed
a mortgage, to secure the payment of a certain sum of money,
to one James Lyon, bearing date the thirteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord one -thousand eight ,hundred and
VOL. IV.

D

8

SUPREME COURT.
Beals

v. Hale.

twenty-eight, of the said lots, together with other lands lying
in the said county of Wayne, as well as of certain lands in the
county of Monroe, in the Territory of Michigan, which said
mortgage was recorded in the office of the register of the, said
county of Wayne, where said lots and part of said mortgaged
premises were situated, on the thirteenth day of January, in the year
eighteen hundred and twenty-nine, in Liber 9 of Mortgages, pp.
103, 104, 105, &c., and alo in the county of Monroe, where the
remainder of said lands and premises were situated, in the office of
register for said county, in Liber 9, Folios 281 to 286. That said
mortgage was afterwards, to wit, on the twenty-first day of November, in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-eight, foreclosed under
the statutes of the State of Michigan, and the said several lots sold
at public auction, and struck off to said Lyon at the sale thereof,
and that a sheriff's deed was afterwards, on the 6th day of April,
A. D. 1842, executed to the said plaintiff, as assignee of the cer" tificate bf sale to said Lyon.of the said lots, they not having been
redeemed within two years from the time of sale, pursuant to
statutes of said State in such case made and provided, which said
deed was duly recorded.
"And the said jury further find, that the said John Hale, and
Felicite, his wife, after the execution of the former mortgage, and
before a foreclosure thereof, to wit, on the sixth day of June, in
the year eighteen hundred and thirty-seven, for a good and valuable
consideration; duly made, acknowledged, and delivered, under their
respective hands and seals, to Nathaniel Weed, Harvey Weed, and
Henry W. Barnes (who had no notice of 'said prior mortgage unless said record was notice), anbther or second mortgage on the
said premises, lots sixteen, seventeen, and eighteen, in the city of
Detroit, county of Wayne, and State of Michigan, which said mortgage, bearing date the said sixth day of June, in the year eighteen
hundred and thirty-seven, was duly recorded in the appropriate
registry, on the spventh day of 'June, in the year eighteen hundred
and thirty-seven, in Liber 8, Folio 343, of Mortgages, and which
said mortgage was afterwards, on the thirty-first day of August, in
the year eighteen hundred and thirty-nine, foreclosed under the
statutes of said State, exposed to sale, and struck off to said
Weeds and Barnes at the said sale, and, not having been redeemed
,within two years therefrom, that a sheriff's deed of said premises
was executed on the sixteenth day of August, eighteen hundred
and forty-two, and delivered to said Nathaniel and Harvey Weed
and Henry W. Barnes, of all and singular the said premises, which
was duly recorded.
" That the plaintiff and defendant both claim under the respective
mortgages above set forth, and the sheriff's deeds under the respective foreclosures aforesaid ; and that Felicite Hale, the defendant, was, at the. institution of this suit, and still is, a tenant in pos-.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

s9

Beals v. Hale.

session of said premises, under a lease from said Weeds and Barnes,
who are admitted under the statute to defend as her landlords.
"And the jurors aforesaid, on their oaths aforesaid, do further say,
that if it shall appear to the said court, from the facts above found,
that the recording of said prior mortgage from Hale to Lyon in
the registry of Wayne county was sufficient record thereof to constitute notice of said mortgage under the laws of Michigan, in reference to mortgages of real estate situate in the county of Wayne,
within the limits of the city of Detroit, .then they find for the

plaintiff.
" But should said court be of opinion that said record in the office
of said registry for the county of Wayne was. invalid and insufficient in law, so far as the said premises in the citj of Detroit are
concerned, to constitute notice thereof to the subsequent mortgagees,
then they find for the defendants.
THOMAS

BEALS

VS.
FELICITE HALE."
On consideration of the said special verdict, the same being
brought before the court on a motion for .judgment on the verdict,
the opinions of the judges were opposed on the point whether the
recording of the mortgage from Hale to Lyon in the registry of
Wayne county. was a sufficient record therebf to constitute notice
of said mortgage under the laws of Michigan, in reference to mortgages of real estate in the county of Wayne, within the limits of
the city of Detroit ; and it is ordered aid directed, that this cause,
with said point, be certified to the Supreme Court of the United
States, in pursuance of the act of Congress in such case made and
provided.
The cause was argued by Mir. Henry V. Waker-, for the plaintiff, and by George C. Bates and .Alexander D. Fraser, for the
defendant.
Xr. Walker, for plaintiff..
The facts will appear from the special verdict. The question
of law arises under two statutes passed on the same day. The first
is entitled " An Act concerning Deeds and Conveyances," and will
be found on p. 258 of Laws of Michigan for 1827. By this act it
was declared that a city register's office should be established for
the city of Detroit, in which "all deeds and other conveyances"
relating to lands in the city should be recorded. The second act is
entitled " An Act concerning Mortgages," and will be found on
pages 273, &c., of Laws of 1827. This was approved the same
day as the act concerning " deeds and conveyances," but to take
effect some months after. This last act does not allude to a city
register's office, but directs where all mortgages of lands situated

40

SUPREME COURT.
Beals v. Hwle.

in the respective counties in Michigan shall be recorded: The
point of difference between the counsel, as well as the point certified by the court, is whether Lyon should have recorded his mortgage under which we claim in accordance with the act "concerning deeds and conveyances," in the city office ; or in Pecordance
with the provisions of the act "concerning mortgages," in the register's office of the county of Wayne. It was recorded in the register's office for the county, and plaintiff contends this was a good
and sufficient record, for these reasons, viz.: First. The act of the Territory of Michigan which governs this
case, as we believe, is the one "concerning mortgages." It was
passed on the 12th of April, 1827, to take effect on the first da
of January, 1828. It is entitled "1An Act concerning Mortgages,
and was the first law enacted concerning mortgages by th~e Legislative Council of the then Territory of Michigan. The flrtt section
directs, "1that the registers of the respective counties of the Tertory, from time to time, shall provide fit and conveniexit books
for the registering of all mortgages of any lands or tenements situated
within their respective counties ; in which books shall be entered
the names of the mortgagors and mortgagees, the dates of the
respective mortgages, the mortgage money, the time or times when
payable, the description and boundaries of the lands and tenements
mortgaged, the time when such mortgages are registered, and a
minute of the certificate and, acknowledgment thereof hereitifter
mentioned, to whicli books of registry all person*s wl~osoever, at
proper seasons, may have recourse; and it is hereby made the
further duty of 'the said registers, when registering a mortgage, also
to record at length the special power of sale, if any be contained
theretn; for which service the respective registers are hereby
allowed to demand and receive the like rate of compensation which
is allowed them for recording a deed ; and if any register shall neglect or refuse to do the duty required of him by this act, he shall
answer to the party injured allAamages which shall happen by such
neglect or refusal."
This section is general in its terms and the language used is susceptible of bat one construction. The command is positive, and
the object of providing the books clear and certain. It is to record
"all mortgages of any lands or tenements situated within their respective counties." Not only the instruments to be recorded are
clearly pointed out, but the mode of registering, the compensation
for the same, the penalty for neglect on the part of the register, and
a provision that these retords shall at all times be subject to inspection.
The second section of the same act is in the following words,
viz.: Sec. 2. "That every mortgage, being proven or acknowledged
according to law, and swh proof or ackawwledgment certified in

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

41

Beals V. Hale.

like manner, may be registered in the county in which: the lards
or tenemonts so 'mortgaged- are situated ; and in case .of several
mortgages of the sqme premises or any part thereof, the mortgage
or mortgages which shall be first registered as aforesaidshall, kas
the preference in all courts of law *andequity, according to the
times of the registeringof such mortgages respectively : Provided,
the mortgage or mortgages so to be .preferred be'made bona ide,
and upon good and valuable consideration: .and further, that no
mortgage, or any deed, conveyance, or, writing in ^the nature of a
mortgage, shall defeat or prejudice the title of any bona fide put.chaser of any lands or tenements unless the same shall have beed
duly registered as aforesaid."
.There is as little doubt about the construction of tiAs sectiou as
the first. The most comprehenqive language possible is used. It
-declares "every inortgage" may be registered in the county where
the lands and tenements mortgaged are situated, and the one first
recorded shall have' preference in all courts of law and equity;
The jury in this case have found that the premises described in the
declaration are in the county of Wayne, and that the mortgage to
Lyon, under which we claim was executed after the passage of this
act, and was recorded in the register's office for the county of
Wayne, as -provided in this act. Where is ihere rom for an argu.,
ment against the validity of the record ? Not from this act, for it is
beyond a question, that, from the terms of the law, it includes this
mortgage, as well as all other mortgages in the -Territory. There
is no. exception in the law ; it is general, and applies to "every
mortgage." It is notlcontended, we believe, that thi's law does not
in terms reach this case, or that there is any ambiguity or uncertainty in the language used. But we- are told that this statute is
contro!led and governed by another act of-the Territory of Michigan,
and this renders it necessary to examine that act.
The counsel for the defendant have contended, and so will argue
to the court, that the act entitled " An Act concerning Deeds and
Conveyances," found in the Laws of Michigan for 1827, page 258,
approved April 1th, 1827, is the 'law of this case. It will be
observed that the act "concerning mortgages," and the act "concerning deeds and conveyances," were -approved on the same day.
But the act concerning mortgages did not take effect until January,
1828, thus inakiiig it have the -same operation and effect, as though
passed on a day subscquent. If the laws conflict, then the last one
will govern. The act "concerning mortgages" appears from'the
statute book to have been acted upon by the legislature subsequent'
to the one "concerning'deeds and conveyances "; it is on a subsequent page of the statute book, and if both laws took effect at the
same moment, we suppose they would be constructed (if thought'
to conflict in terms) like different sections of the same statute.
The last one would stand, and the others fall. The application of
VOL., IV.

6

D*

42

SUPREME COURT.
Beals V. Hale.

this well known principle would be conclusive, if the acts were
thought to relate to the same subject-matter. But we suppose the
first law has no reference to mortgages whatever. One evidence
of it is, that on the same day an act is passed relating to mortgages,
and providing for the recording of them in a specific manner. The
first three sections of the act conc6ming "deeds and other conveyances" are the only ones which it is pretended have any appicaion to this case. These sections read as follows, viz.- "Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council-of the Territory of Michigan, That all deeds or other conveyances of any
lands, tenements, or hereditaments lying in this Territory, signed
and sealed by the parties granting the same, having good and lawful
authority thereunto, and'signed by two or more witnesses, and acknowledged by such grantor or grantors, or proved and recorded
as is hereinafter provided, shall be good and valid to pass the same
lands, tenements, or hereditaments to the grantee or grantees, without any other act or ceremony in law whatever.
" Sec. 2. That all such deeds or conveyances of or concerning
any lands, tenements, or hereditaments lying within this Territory,
or whereby the same may -bein any wise affected in law or equity,
shall be acknowledged by the party or parties executing the same,
or proved by one or more of the judges of the Supreme Court, or
before one of the justices of any county court, a notary, public, or
any justice of the peace in any county within this Territory, and a
certificate of such acknowledgment or proof being indorsed thereon,
and signed by the person before whom the same was taken, such
deed or conveyance shall be recorded in the office of register of,
probate for the county, or register for the city, wshere such lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, respectively, are situated, lying, and
being: and every such deed or conveyance that shall at any time
after the publication hereof be made and executed, and which shall
not be acknowledged, proved, and recorded as aforesaid, shall be
adjudged fraudulent and void against any subsequent purchaser or
mortgagee, for valuable consideration, unless such deed or conveyance be recorded as aforesaid, before the recording of the deed or
conveyance under which such subsequent purchaser or mortgagee
may claim.
"Sec. 3. That a suitable person shall be appointed register for
recording deeds and other conveyances affecting in law or equity, or
relating to real estate within the city of Detroit, who shall be sworn
to the faithful performance of the duties of his office, and shall receive
the same com ensation as is or may be allowed for the same services
to the registe) if probate in the several counties in this Territory."
We think if there was no statute like the one "concerning mortgages," still this court would say the act relating "to deeds and
conveyances" is n6t applicable. "Deeds and conveyances" are
not the term used to designate mortgages. An analysis of this

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Beals v.

43

Hale.

statute shows conclusively to our minds, that the construction attempted by the counsel for the defendant is not the one which the
legislature contemplated. The latter part of the first section says,
that a deed or conveyance within the meaning of this statute I shall
be good and valid to pass the lands, &c., without any other act or
ceremony whatever." Is this the way titles to lands are passed under mortgages? By no means. Before a perfect title exists under
a mortgage, there must be a failure to pay. The property must
be sold, and the equity of redemption which remains in the mortgagor cut off. Another statute declares how this is performed, and
when these acts are to be done, and it is wholly different from the
mode pointed out in this law. It is clear, then, the, first section
does not refer to or include mortgages. The second section declares that all such deeds, &c., referring back to the first section for
a description of them, shall be acknowledged and executed in a
certain manner, and "such deeds or conveyances shall be recorded
in the office of the register of probate for the county, or register for
the city where such lands, &c., respectively, are situated, lying,
and being," and the penalty for not recording is, that all such deeds
and conveyances shall be adjudged fraudulent and void against any
subsequent purchase or mortgage for valuable consideration, unless
such deed or conveyance be recorded as' aforesaid, before the recording of such subsequent deed, &c.
The counsel for the defendant insist that the mortgage under
which we hold is void against them, for the reason that it was not
recorded in the office of registry of deeds for the city of Detroit ;
though it is admitted that it was recorded in the office of register
of probate, or county register. The penalty for not recording a
deed there is, that it shall be adjudged fraudulent and void, while
the penalty in the act concerning mortgages declares it shall be
postponed only. One act says that the deeds and other conveyances not recorded in pursuance of it shall be void, thereby rendering it necessary to record the deeds referred to in the city register's
office, under this law ; if applicable, we are not only not entitled to
recover, but the mortgage under which we claim is void, whatever
the value of the premises, while the second law, or the one relating

to "1mortgageg," in terms declares that the mortgage first recorded
shall have preference in all courts of law and equity whatever. It
is conceded that the mortgage under which we claim was recorded
first in the registry for Wayne county, where this last provision
prevails, and if the act concerning mortgages govern this case, theh
the mortgage under which we claim is good. and' we are entitled to
recovei in this suit. The different penalties in the two acts would,
of itself, indicate that the act "concerning deeds and conveyances"
was not intended to apply to mortgages, for we believe there is not
a statute in existence in any country, nor is there a decision of any
court, declaring the penalty for not recording a mortgage, as against

44

SUPREME COURT.
Beals

v. Hali.

a second mortgage, is that it is void. It is always to postpone;
never more. Any other law would be oppressive. Take this case,
where the preniises ,were worth, at the time the second lnohpge
was given, enough to pay both ; if the mortgage under which we
claim is void, then we could not have redeemed from them, and our
whole security would have been lost, while if it was only postponed
by paying their mortgage, we could have protected our debt. We
are by no means 6ertain, that, even if we admit (which we do not)
the first act to be applicable to mortgages, we were compelled to
record in the city register's office. Where is the record of the
Lyon mortgage, under which we claim, to be found ? In the office
of register of probate, or county register (they are the same), of
the counties of Wayne and Monroe. Where are the lands and
premises situated? Answer: In the counties of Wayne and Mon.roe. Ay, but, say the counsel for the defence-, they are partly in the
city of Detroit also. True; but is not Detroit in Wayne county ?
Are not the lots in question just as much in Wayne county as
though they were out of the city ? Most unquestionably. The
counsel for the defendant admit the record of the mortgage under
which we claim is good for part of the lands in Wayne county, but
contend it is bad for another part in the, same county ; this we do
not believe can be maintained. Our conclusions formed from an
examination of these statutes alone are, 1. That the first act on the statute book relates solely to "deeds
and conveyances," and does not refer to or include mortgages.
2. That the second act, having been palsed at the same time, to
take effect subsequently, and relating solely to-mortgages, applies
to and governs this case, and if the provisions of the two acts are
inconsistent with each other, the act concerning mortgages mus.t be
sustained.

3. But if the first act is sustained, then we say that a record of a
mortgage in the probate or county register's office for Wayne
county is good, thougk part of the lands may be within the limits
of the city of Detroit. But,
Secondly. We say that this question has been decided. The
present defendants in fact, Messrs., Weed and Barnes, filed a bill in
chancery, before the Chancellor of the State of Michigan,, against
the present plaintiff, setting up the facts as found by the jury, except that the bill was filed before the day to *redeemhad expired.
They asked the court to decide the same question now before this
court, that is, the validity of the record of this mortgage'to Lyon,
under which we claim. The argument of the counsel then was the
same as it will be here, that the mortgage to Lyon was, as against
them, under the provision of the act "1concerning deeds," &c.,
void, and they asked the court to compel us to release our title.
They asked the Court of Chancery to decide this question ; and
after argument, the court did decide it, and the opinion of that court

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

45

Beals v. Hale.

fully sustained us in every respect. The Chancellor said there
could be no doubt but that the first act did not apply, and that the
second did apply; and that the Lyon mortgage, having been recorded
in accordance with the provisions of the act " concerning mortgages," was entitled to a preference in all courts of law and equity
whatever. We suppose this adjudication, being between the same
parties and upon the same subject-matter, is conclusive. This court
will follow that decision.
It is unnecessary to refer this court to the numerous decisions
establishing this rule. We believe it is without an exception that
this court always follows the decisiong of State tribunals, when the
question turns on the construction of a State statute, where real
estate is in controversy.
Mr. Bates and Mr. FRaser, for the defendant.
The special verdict'having found the real estate in controversy
to be situated in the city of Detroit, the only question involved in
this case is, whether the mortgage through which the plaintiff
claimb to derive title to the premises should, by the laws of
Michigan, have been recorded in the registry kept for the county
of Wayne, or in that established for the city of Detroit; if in the
former, it is conceded that the plaintiff must prevail in this action;
but if in the latter, then the defendant is entitled to judgment on
the verdict.
It has been well remarked by Chancellor Kent, that "the policy
of this country has been in favor of the certainty and security as well
as convenience of a registry, both as to deeds and mortgages"; and
it is believed that every State in the Union has some statutory
provision on the subject. Congress deemed some temporary rule
on this bead indispensable for the new territories to be established
northwest of the river Ohio, for in the Ordinance of 1787; a provision is incorporated, prescribing the manner in which conveyances were to be executed; and proved and acknowledged, and requiring them to "bbe recorded within one 'year after proper magistrates,
courts, and registers shall be appointed for that purpose." Indeed,
the security of title to real estate in a great measure depends on such
registries; and it can scarcely be believed that the local legislature
of Michigan should have been unmindful of the necessity of adopting adequate provisions on this subject. Yet if the reasoning of the
plaintiff is correct, it would seem that the legislature of Michigan
have been.sadly deficient in this respect, until the year 1827.
The plaintiff has contented himself with bringing into view two
statutes adopted in that year, one on the subject of recording deeds
and conveyances, and the other concerning mortgages; and he has
merely referred to some of the provisions of those acts, to establish
his position, that the mortgage under which he claims was recorded in the appropriate registry. These two acts ought not to be

40

SUPREME COURT.
Deals v. Hale.

considered by themselves, for it will be found to be essential as well
to a correct understanding of the subject, as to enable the court to
put a proper construction on the statutes alluded to, that we carefully examine the previous legislation of Michigan on this subject.
The earliest provision is a law of 1805, in the Woodward Code
(so called), at. page 52, which de.glares, "that the clerks of every
court shall record all deeds and writings, acknowledged or proved
before such court, &c., together with the acknowledgments of married women, and all indorsements and papers thereto annexed, by
entering them, word for word, in proper books, to be carefully preserved, and shall afterwards redeliver them to the parties entitled
to them." The next enactment is in the Code of 1815, at page
80, which provides " that all deeds and conveyances, which shall be
made and executed within this Territory, of or concerning any lands,
tenements, or hereditaments therein, or whereby the same may be
any way affected in law or equity, shall be recorded in the register's office of the district where such lands or hereditaments are lying and being, within six months after the date of such deed or
conveyance; and every such deed or conveyance that shall at
any time after the publication hereof be made and executed,
and which shall not be proved and recorded as aforesaid, shall
be adjudged- fraudulent and void against any such subsequent
purchaser 'or mortgagee,'for a valuable consideration, unless such
deed or conveyance be recorded as aforesaid, before the proving and recording of the deed or conveyance under which such subsequent purchaser or mortgagee may claim."
Next follows an
"Act concerning Deeds and Conveyances," to be found in the Code
of 1820, at page 156, the first section of which prescribes the requirements of" all deeds or other conveyances of any lands," &c.,
the second section of which declares, "that all such deeds or other
conveyances of or concerning any lands, tenements, or hereditaments lying within his Territory, or whereby the same may be in any
wise affected in law or equity, shall be acknowledged, &c., in the
office of the register of probate for the county, or register for the
city, where such lands, &c., are situated, lying, and being, within six
months after the execution of such deed or conveyance ; and any
such deed or conveyance, that shall at any time after the publication
hereof be made and executed, and which shall not be acknowledged and proved and recorded as aforesaid, shall be adjudged
fraudulent and void against any subsequent purchaser or mortgagee,
for a valuable consideration, unless such deed or conveyance be recorded as aforesaid, before the recording of the deed or conveyance under which such purchaser or mortgagee may claim." The
third section provides for the appointment of "a suitable person as
register for recording deeds or other conveyances offecting in law or
equity, or relating to, real estate within the city of Detoit; who
shall be sworn to the. faithful performance of his office, and shall

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

47

Beals v. Hale.

receive the same compensation as is or may be allowed for the
same services to the reisters of probate in the several counties in
this Territory ; and the seventh section provides, "that it shall not
be lawful for any register of any city or county in this Territory to
record any deed, conveyance, or other writing, unless the same shall
be acknowledged or proved as"is directed by this act," &c., and the
eighth section prescribes, "that all deeds and conveyances of lands,
&c., which shall hereafter be made and executed- in any other Territory, State, or county, whereby such lands shall be conveyed in
whole or in pan, or otherwise affected or encumbered in law, shall
be acknowledged," &c., and recorded as aforesaid.
This comprises the whole legislation of Michigan from the organization of the Territory up to the year 1827, on the subject under
consid ration ; and the similarity of the provisions in these various
acts can hardly esqape observation. Aside from these statutes,,n6
allusion is to be found, in the whole legislation of Michigan, to the
subject of mortgages, until the year 1827 ; nor any separate pro-,
vision touching their execution, registry, or foreclosure ; and if the
mortgages which had been executed on real estate within the city
of Detroit anterior to that time are not covered by these provisions, fearful indeed must be the condition of titles to city propertyq,
for it will, be agreed on all hands, that these statutes have been umversally held, as well by the profession as the community generally, as comprehending that class of deeds. It is equally certain,
that ever since the establishment of a separate registry for the city
of Detroit, mortgages, and other deeds affecting real estate in the
city, have uniformly been recorded in that registry.
Such has
been the practical construction put on the law ofP1820, and on that
of 1827, referred to by the plaintiff, up to the year 1837, when an
act was passed (Laws of 1837, p. 268)' requiring the duties of the
city register to be performed by the register of the county of
Wayne. Up to that time, scarcely an instance can be pointed out
of a mortgage of city property being recorded anywhere else than
in the.city registry, except t3e mortgage on which the plaintiff
seeks to recover in this action. It will he perceived, that the law
of 1827 is merely a regnactment of the law of 1820, with this difference only, that the latter statute limited the time within which
deeds should be recorded, and superadded a provision for the recording of deeds which had been previously executed "in the. city
or county registry, as the case might "quire, agreeably to the provisions ,fthat act." And in the Revised Statutes of 1833, the act
concerning deeds ahd conveyances of 1827 is again transcribed and
adopted ; and in both these acts the provision which requires "deeds
and other conveyances affecting in law or equity, or relating to, real
estate within the city of Detroit" to be recorded in the city registry is still preserved and incorporated.
Now it is urged that the reason and necessity of these laws, no

48

SUPREME COURT.
Beals v. Hale.

less than the language employed and the context, manifestly show
the intention of the legislature to have been the establishment of a
registry of every description of deeds which might affect real estate. The general object was to prevent frauds on purchasers,
mortgagees, and perhaps creditors, by having a place to which all
might resort for the necessary information.
The terms made use of are general.
No particular description
of deeds is to be f6und in any of the acts, but the language used is
sufficiently comprehensive to.include mortgages, else why introduce
into these acts terms which would be inapplicable to the recording
of conveyances merely ; such as " all deeds, or other convejancu
cconcerning any lands, or. whereby the same may be in any way affected in law or equity" ? And again, unless mortgages were in
contemplation of the legislature, why declare that every such deed
or conveyance that should not be recorded as aforesaid should be
adjudged fraudulent and void against subsequent purchasers or sortgagees, unless such deed 6r conveyance should be recorded before
the recording of the deed or conveyance under which such purchaser or mortgagee might claim ? And further, why should the sixth
section of the act of 1827 use the terms "1deed, conveyance, or
other writing "? and the seventh section require deeds whereby
lands were sola, or " othet wise affected or encumbered in law," to be
recorded ?
This is the language employed in the several statutes that have
been passed upon this subject anterior and subsequent to 1827 ; and
at the very time, too, that the mortgage law of. 1817, relied on by
the plaintiff, formed a part of the revised code. To presume that
these enactments did not apply to mortgages executed prior to 1827
is presuming that the legislature overlooked a subject of the deepest
imortance to the rights of parties, and the securities of titles ; but
if it be conceded that they did so apply, then it is insisted that they
are equally applicable to mortgages executed after that period of
times-ince the same laws continued to'be operative until the year
1837, long after the execution of the plaintiff's mortgage. And we
emphatically ask, if the plaintiff in this case, in the position he now
occupies, does not come within the meaning, spirit, and terms of those
acts? Does hexpt claim rights in opposition to a subsequent mortgagee for a valuableconsideration ? Does not the "deed, conveyance, or writing" in virtue of which he makes this claim affect or
encumber in law the premises in question ? And if so, does not
that statute aff the penalty of his own omission, by declaring that
his deed shall he deemed, fraudulent and void, unless registered in
the city registry ?
But independent of the manifest intention of the legislature, in the
various provisions above alluded to, to include mortgages, we might
with confidence refer to the practical construction which they have
uniformly received, should any ambiguity be found in the terms in

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

49

Beals v. Hale.

which they are couched. Considering the purpose for which these
acts were made, in order to attain them, they ought to have a liberal
construction. The practice of recording mortgages of real estate,
lying within this city, in the city registry has been sanctioned by%
a most extensive and continued usage, from the year 1820 to the
year 1837, and it is apprehended that courts will take notice of such
usage under a statute. If it is now to be condemned, few titles to
city property will be secure. Optimus legura interpresconsuetudo.
The propriety of applying this maxim to this case is sufficiently apparent. Long usage has been allowed great weight in dases allied
to this. In reference to a usage which had o'tained, -under a statute
concerning the acknowledgment ofdeeds, Chief-Justice Tilghman, in
the case of M'Ferran v. Powers, I Serg. 1 Raw. 101, 107, says :-

"So extensive and d6ep.rooted is the practice, that many titles depend
upon it; and it would be unpardonable to disturb it now, by a critical examinatioi of the words of the act." To the like effect is the
opinion of Chief-Justice Marshall, in the case McKeen v. Delancy's
Lessee, 5 Cranch, 22, 29,32, 33. And Lord Mansfield, in2 Eden,
74, says, in reference to the usage which had obtained under the statute of Hen. VIII., as to the jointures :-" Consider also the usage
and tiansactions of mankind upon it. The object of all laws in regard to re~l property is -quiet and repose." Chancellor Sandford,
in the case of Troup v. Haight, I Hopk.-239, 268, in regard to the
acknowledgment of a deed, held that the general usage, long and
unquestioned, has great weight in the construction of the act, though
such conktruction be not given upon adverse litigation.
But it would appear that the plaintiff's sole reliance for a recovery in this action is based on the act concerning mortgages, adopt-'
ed for the first time in the year 1827. Now let it.be kept in view,
that this is the first special act passed in reference to mortgages in
terms; that it was adopted on the same day with the act concerning deeds and conveyandes, though to take effect in J'anuary, 1828 ;
and that both these statutes are incorporated in the Revised Statutes
of 1833, at pages 279 and 283, as they originally stood, and we ask
what is the inference to be drawn from this fact. Clearly, that no
change was contemplated as to the particular registry in which these
"deeds, conveyances, or other writings" were tobe recorded. If
not, it may be urgedrwhy the necessity of adopting a special provision in regard to mortgages ? We answer, that this law was introluced merely as a remedial law, to provide for a statutory foreclosure, - a remedy unknown both to the common law. and to our legislation ; and the scope of the provisions oi" the act is conclusive on
that head. The act appears to have been transcribed from'the laws
of New York, and the Clause for the recording of mortgages was introduced without adverting to the previous legislation on the -subject. These two statutes then relate to the same s'ubject, so far as
VOL.

IV.

7

E

50

SUPREME COURT.
Beals ,. Hale.

they relate to the recording of deeds or mortgages ; and "it is to be
inferred that a code of statutes relating to one subject was governed
bf one spirit and policy, and was intended to be consistent and harmonious in its sevaral parts and provisions." It is therefore an established rule of law, that all acts in pari materia are to be taken
together, as if they were one law ; and they are directed to beacompared, in the construction of statutes, because they are considered
as framed upon one system, and having one object in view. "1Indeed the latter act may be considered as incorporated in the former." Dwarris on Statutes, 699, 700; 4 T. R. 447, 450; 5 T.
R. 417,419; Doug. 30. " And the rule applies, though some of
the statutes may have expired, or are not referred to in the other
statutes; Dwarris on Statutes, 700 ; I Burr. 445, 447 ; Bac.
Abr., tit. Statutes, I, 3 ; 1 Ventris, 244, 246.
If, then, as is most manifest, it was intended by the law of 1827
to record " deeds, conveyances, and other writings relating to real
estate in the city of Detroit," in the separate record previously provided fdr that purpose, is it not fair to presume that the legislature
contemplated that mortgages should also be recorded in the same
registry ? It would be absurd to suppose that it was designed to
record one .class of deeds, affecting city property, in the city registry, and another in the county registry; and yet we must arrive
at that result, if the construction contended for by the plaintiff is to
obtain.
The construction contended for by us can be ado pted
without doing violence to the mortgage law ; nor is this view of the
case weakened by the fact, that that law was not to go into operation until some time afterward. This merely shows, that the law
was adopted for the remedy provided to the creditor without resorting to a suit in chancery, and that that remedy was limited to mortgages executed after its passage.
It has been said that this question has been decided in this State
by the Chancellor. We are not called upon to consider the effect
of a decision of the highest tribunal of our State on the question,
directly presented for its adjudication, but that of a subordinate
court, from which an appeal lies to the supreme court of the State
(Revised Statutes of 1838, p. 379), in a case which was never
argued, and between other parties than- those to this record ; and
where an.appeal, too, was taken to the Supreme Court, but the benefit of which was lost in consequence of an omission to file an appeal
bond in due time. Surely such a decision, under such circilmstances, cannot be considered as putting a settled construction on these
statutes, nor prejudice the rights of parties. Besides, it is obvious
from the opinion, that the Chancellor has taken too limited a view of
this subject, for he considers the effect merely of the tw9 acts of
1827, without the remotest allusion to previous legislation in connection with them.

JANUARY TERM,

1846.

51

Beals v. Hale.

Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opihion of the court.
The sole question presented in this case is, whether a -mortgage
executed by the tenant and her husbdnd to James Lyon, on the
13th of November, 1828, shall prevail over another mortgage executed by them to Nathaniel and Harvey Weed and Henry W
Barnes, on the 6th day of June, 1837. Being earlier in time; by
nine years, the first mortgage ought of course to have precedence,
and will entitle the demandant to recover, unless it was improperly
recorded.
The facts, important to he now noticed in connection with that
question, are, that, at the time bf the execution of the first" mortgage, there were two registries,--one in the city of Detroit, and the
other in the county of Wayne, vithin which that city was situsted.
The premises in dispute were within the limits of the city, and the
first mortgage was recorded, on. the 30th of January, 1829, in the
registry for the county of Wayne, but not in the registry for the
city of Detroit, where the second mortgage was recorded, June
7th, 1827. On these facts, whether the recording of the first
mortgage was legal or void must depend upon the construction of
two statutes of the State of Michigan, both passed April 12th,
1827.
The demandani relies upon one of them, as being the only statute
for recording c1mortgages, " and as his registry was duly made under that, he claims to recover. While the tenant relies upon the
other statute, as embracing the case of mortgages, and as his was
the only one recorded in conformity with it and others not so recorded are declared void, he asks for judgment in his favor. It
seems hardly to have occurred to either side, that a construction
may he given to these statutes, which will make them both operative
on this subject, and sustain both of the mortgages according to their
original rank and intent; and if no legal pinciple is opposed to such
a course, it is certainly entitled to preference.
Because it is a well settled principle of construction, that conveyances. are, if pr~rticable on any reasonable view of the subject,
to be sustained rather than pronounced void, and also,.that statutes
which apparently conflict with each other are to be reconciled, as
far as may be on any fair hypothesis, and validity given to each, if
it can be and is necessary to conform to usages under them, or to
preserve the titles of property undisturbed. Cooper v. Telfair, 4
Dall. 14 ; 1 Serg. &-R. 105 ; 2 Cranch, 358 ; 5 Cranch, 25;
Bac. Abr., Statute, I.
The statute which passed on the 12th of April, 1827, and related
to "deeds and other conveyances," went into effect immediately,
and was the only.law of the State in forbe as to recording mortgages as well as other deeds, till. 3anuary, 1828.
It provided, that all deeds should be recorded in ithe county of

52

SUPREME
Beals

COURT.
. Hale.

Wayne or the city of Detroit, according as the land conveyed was
situated in one or the other. Laws of 1827, p. 258.
Though the title to this act and its general language do not embrace' mortgages eo nomine; we do not agree with the counsel for
the demandant, that they are not included.
In the second section, the word "mortgagee" is twice used. In
the third section, also, ".conveyances affecting in law or equity,"
" real estates," are spoken of. And besides this, it is reasonable
to construe it as including mortgages under the general words of
"all-deeds and other conveyances of any lands," &c. (Sec. 1.),
because they are sufficiently broad for that purpose, and because a
similar generality had existed in the expressions in former laws in
the Territory on this subjebt (Woodward's. Code, p. 52; Code
of 1820, p. 156), and was construed to include mortgages ; and because, if these are not included, there were eight months, from April,
1827, to January, 1828, during which no law except the first one was
in operation, and consequently when no provisions whatever existed
in respect to the recording of that important species of conveyance.
The law, then, for that eight months, as to recording mortgages, must
be considered to have been, that those relating to lands in the city
of Detroit should be recorded there, and those relating to lands in
other parts of the county of Wayne should be recorded in the
registry for the county. (See the second section.)
The prior mortgage in this case, however, was not executed
within that period, but on the 13th of November, 1828 ; and in the
mean time the other act, which passed on the same day with that
we have just considered,, had come into operation "concerning
mortgages," and was made applicable to all executed after January
1st, 1828..

The next important question then is, What, if any, was the alteration made by it in respect to the recording of mortgages ? and was
the mortgage to Lyon, not having been registered as the first act
required, recorded in the manner authorized by the last act ?
That act purports to relate to "mortgages " alone ; leaving
other conveyances to be recorded as they had been under the other
law during the eight months before it took effect. As to "mortgages," it provided, that those executed after the 21st of January,
1828, "may be registered in the county in which thq lands or
tenements so mortgaged are situated," and that a subsequent one,
recorded before a prior one, should be preferred. Laws o the
Territory of Michigan, p. 273.
The mortgage under which the demandant claims, being executed about' eleven months after these new provisions, was recorded in conformity to them.
After this literal compliance with that law, and a construction
under it which seems to uphold, as should be done, if practicable,
the early mortgage, it does not seem desirable, and it is hardly ex-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

53-

Beals v. Hale.

pedient, unless on principle necessary, to resort to a different construction, which would render the first security void as to the second mortgagee, although recorded in strict cdnformity with the law
last going into operation. And as little does it seem expedient,
unless necessfry under imperative principles or precedents, to
push this construction so far as to avoid or postpone any mortgages recorded in conformity to the provisions of the act first going
into operation. The statute as to " mortgages" does not profess, in so many words, to repeal any portion of the other statute ;
nor is it necessary so to construe it. Going into effect later, if
not passed later, it is true that any of its provisions entirely inconsistent with the laws in force before it took effect, or repugnant
to them, might, without words ;f repeal, be considered as changed
or abrogated, and the first impression would naturally be, that the
provisions of the second law, so far as regards mortgages of land
situated in the city of Detroit, were irreconcilable with the former
act, and hence to that extent repealed it. , But such a construction, though sustaining the mortgage .to Lyon, might avoid many
others and disturb numerous titles, 6nd hence is not to be adopted,
unless clearly the proper one. Ld. Raym. 371.; Bac. Abr.,
Statute, C and G; Stradling v. MorganPlowd. 206. We think
it is not the proper one.
A second law on the same subject does not.repeal a former one
without a repealing clause or negative words, unless so clearly repugnant as to imply a negative. 1 BI. Cm. 89 ; 1 Gall. 153, in
Cas of Ship Argo, " leges posteriores priores contraria#abrogant." "But if they be not so contrary or so repugnaht, that the
last act expresses or implies, a negative of the first, .then they may
continue to stand together. And, if such be the case here, a
mortgage of city property recorded in conformity to either law
would be valid. Such, in our opinion, is the case here, there
being no words 'of repeal or'negation' in the act concerning
mortgages. Many cases of this kind, very analogous, are cited in
Foster's case, 11 Coke, 63, 64. See also 2 Roll. R. 410 ; 19
Viner's Abr. 525.
Among them is one where an act of parliament made an offence
punishable at the Quarter Sessions, and another passed making
it punishable at the Assizes, without any. words of repeal. It was
held that you may indict under either, or at either court. 11
Coke, 63.
The same result is arrived at, if the two acts be considered as
passing and taking effect, as one law, on the same day. In that
view, the last *one only says that "tnortgages" executed after the
1stof January, 1828, "1may be registered" in the county where
the lands lie ; while the first one provided, that they " shall be recorded" in the registry Qf the city, if the lands lay within its limits.
These provisions may stand well together, upholding, under one
E@*

54

SUPREME COURT.
Bea

V. Hale.

act, a recording of mortgages in the city registry, as good in all
cases of property situated there; and, under the other, upholding
a record of mortgages of like lands in the county registry as also
good, whenever any persons prefer to resort to that. As either
of these views does not avoid the second mortgage, but only gives
ii, as was intended by the maker of it, a rank second to the first
one, and as they both give force or operation to both statutes,
and do not endanger or disturb titles either in the city or county,
when either statute has been complied with, they ought to settle
the question.
It may not be amiss to notice, also, that the mortgage to Lyon
contained land in the county of Monroe, as well as in the city of
Detroit, and having been seasonably recorded in that county,
would be valid for some purposes, if not for this, without any second registry whatever in another city or county. McKeen v.
Delaney's Lessee, 5 Cranch, 22; Delancy's Lessee v. McKeen,
I. Wash.
C. C. 525.
It is gratifying
to find, that our concluiion in this case accords
with the result in the only decision which is supposed to have
been made in the State of Michigan on this subject. SeeWeed
et al. v. Lyon et al.,.in Harrington, 363.
Had that decision been made by the highest judicial tribunal of
the State, or been shown to accord with a settled usage and practice under these statutes affecting the titles to real estate. we
should have felt bound to conform to it, as a part of the local iaw.
9 Cranch, 87; 2 Peters, 58, 85 ; 6 Wheat. 119; 10 Wheat.
152 ; 11 Wheat. 361 ; I Brockenbr. C. C. 539.
But, though entitled to respect and weight, that case has not
been treated as a precedent to control this, because the judgment
was.not in a court of the last resort, and is said to have been appealed from, but further proceedings defeated by some accident.
Let a certificate be sent down, that, in the opinion of this court,
the recording of the mortgage from Hale to Lyon was sufficient to
give it validity and priority under the laws of Michigan.

