90

SUPREME COURT.
Buchanan v. Alexander.

McKEa

ftUcH&NAN, PLA

iT IN
x EzROR, v. JAxES ALEXANDER.

MNoey-in the hands of a purser, although it may be due to seamen, is not liable to
an attachment by the creditors.of.those seamen.
A purier cannot be distinguished from any other disbursing agent of the government; and the rule is general, that, so long as money remains in the hands of a
disbursing efficer, it is as much the money of the United States as if it had not
been drawn from the. treasury.
A decision of 'a state court, sanctioning such an attachment, may be revised by this
0ourt'nder the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.

Mr Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the courf.
This is one of six .cases deppnding up on the same principle,
which have been brought before this court by writs of error to the
Circeit Superior Court for the county of Norfolk, State of Virginia, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
Six writs of attachment were issued by a justice of the peace of
" above county of Norfolk, by. boarding-house keepers, against
certain seamen of the frigate Constitution, which had just returned
from a cruise. The writs were laid on moneys in the hands of the
parser, the plaintiff in error, due to the seamen for wages. The
money was -afterwards paid to the seamen by the purser, in disreOf the attachments, by the order of the Secretary of the Navy.
The.purser admited before the justice that the several sums attaded were'in his hands due to the'seamen, but contended he was
not'ame -nle
to the proess. The jiistice entered judgments against
him on the attachments. The cases were appealed to the Sutprior
Court of the omity, which affirmed the judgments of the justice.
Anq that being the. hi st court of the State-which can exercise
jurisdiction"in the caso, and its judgments being against a right and
a
rity set up under a law of the United States, may be revised
in t court by a writ of error.
The important question is, whether- the money in the hands of the
purser, though due to the seamen for wages, was attachable. A
prser, it would seem, cannot, in this respect, be distinguished from
any other'tlisbursing agent Of the government. If the creditors of
these seamei may, by process of.attachment, divert the public
money from its legitimate and- appropriate object, the same thing
may be done as-regards the pay of our officers and men of the army
and of the navy; and also in every other case where the public
funds.paybe placed in the hands of an agent for disburserment. To
state such 'a'principle is to refute it. No government can sanction
it. At all'times it would be found embarrassing, and under some
cirmimstances it might be fatal t the public service.
The funds of the government are specifically appropriated to certain national objects, and if such appropria'tions may be diverted
and defeated by state .process or otherwise, the functions of the
government may be suspended. So long as money remains in the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Spalding v. State of New York.

hands of a disbursing officer, it is as much the money of the United
States, as if it had not been drawn from- the treasury.. Until p4!
over by the agent of the government to the pierson entitled to it,
the fund cannot, in any legal sense, be considered a part of -1
effects. The -purser is not the.-debtor of the seamen.
It is not doubted that cases may have arisen in which the government, -as a &aatter of policy or accommodation,' may have aided
a creditor of one who received money for public services; but this
cannot ,have been-under any *upposed legal liability, as no such liability attaches to the government, or to its disbursing officers.
We think the question in this case is clear of doubt, and requires
no further illustration.
The judgments are reversed at the costs of the defendants, and
the causes are remanded to the state court, with instructions; to dismiss the attachments at the costs of the appellees in that court.

LTxAN A. SPALnnmo, PAfiFrF ix EEROR, v. Tai

PEOPLE OF TER
STATz OF Naw Yonx, Ex 31L. FaRnnnic -F. BAcius, DzFmoAwa s.

Tuis case was brought up from the Supreme Court for the Trial
of Impeachments and the Correction of Exrors of ihe StatW of New
York, by a writ of exiror issued uniler the '9thswition of ,;th Judi-

ciary Act.
The facts were these.
The relator, Frederick F. fackus, previox. to the 20th day of
July, 1840, had obtained a judgment in th6 SuprmeCiirt of:thJe
State of New York against Lyman A., Spalding,
, pWja iff in
error, -for the fionperformance of promises, and on the said last
mentioned day the relator, as complainant, filed, a.. creditor's bill
against the -said Spalding, in the Court of Chancery of said-State,
before the Vice-Chancellor of the' Eighth Circuit, 6n which an injunction was issued and served on said Spalding, fQ restrain him,
among other things, from collecting, receiv ig, transferring, selling,
assiging, delivering, or in any way or manner using, controlling,
interfering or meddlin with, or disposing of, any property, money,
or things in action belonging to him.
On the 13th day of December, 1941, an order was made by
said court to attach said Spalding for a violation of said, injunction,
and such proceedings -were had in said court, that on the 21st day
of March, 1842, the said court declared and-adjudged that the said
Lyman A. Spaldihg had been and was guilty of a contempt of court
in wilfully violating said injunction, by disposing of property and
paying out money contrary to the terms of said injunction; and that

such misconduct of the said Lyman A. Spalding was calculated to

