SUPREME COURT.

576

Bradford

et al. v. Williams.

culty in making this case an exception, and assigning a day for the
hearing.
But at the present period of the term, the assignment of a particular day for the trial of this case involves other and higher considerations than that of a mere departure from established rules.
In four or five weeks, at farthest, the court will be compelled to
close its session, in order to enable its members to perform their
duties at the circuits ; and several important cases, some of which
cannot be continued without producing much public inconvenience
in three or more of the States, have already been specially assigned for argument, and the order in which they are to he taken up
announced from the bench ; and in obedience to this notice counsel
have been for- some time past, and still are, attending to argue them.
It is very doubtful whether enough remains of the term to enable
the court to dispose of these cases, and it is probable that one or
more of them may of necessity be continued. Under such circumstances, we cannot, without injustice to others and inconvenience to the public in several of the States, make a new and unexpected arrangement in the order of business, by which another
case, not entitle( to priority,-is interposed out of its proper order.
The case in question must, therefore, stand over until the next
term.

EDWARD BRADFORD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT W. WILLIAMS,
DEFENDANT, AND JOHN JUDGE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ROBERT

W.

WILLIAMS, DEFENDANT.

By a statute of Florida, where suit is brought upon a bond, the plaintiff need not
prove its execution unless the defendant denies it under oath. It also provides
that such an instrument may be assigned; that the assignee becomes vested with
all the rights of the assignor, and may bring suit in his own name.

Under this statute, where a joint and several bond was signed by three obligors
and made payable to three obligees, one of whom was also one of the obligors,
and the obligees assigned the bond, the fact that one of the obligors was also an
obligee was no valid defence in a suit brought by the assignee against the two
other obligors.
The inability of one of the obligees to sue himselfdid not impair the vitality ofthe
bofid, but amounted only to an objection to a recovery in a court of law. The
ficulty. ent, and ability of the.assignee to sue in his own name, removed this difThe statute of Florida places bonds, as far as respects negotiability and the right
of the assignee to sue in hi own name, upon the same footing as bills of exchange and promissory notes. The case, therefore, fIlls within the principle of
a partner drawing a bill upon his house, or making a note in the name of the
., payable to his own order, both of which are valid in the hands of a bond
sidrholder.

THSEs

were kindred cases, argued and decided together. Brad-

ford and Judge were obligors upon the same bonds,- although'sued
separately, and the same questions were common to both cases.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Bradford et al. v

577 .

Williams.

They came up, by writ of error, from the Court of Appeals for
the Territory of Florida.
The case was this.
The -defendant in error brought an action of debt in the Superior
Court in the Middle District of Florida against the plaintiff in ef-^"
rot, and declared upon four bonds, amounting in the aggregate to
the sum of $4,854.28, made by the defendant below, William P.
Craig, and Ed. Bradford, by which they bound themselves jointly
and severally to pay that sum to William B. Nuttall, Hector
W. Braden, and William P. Craig, or to their order, setting out
the assignment of said bonds, in due and proper form, by .the obligees to the plaintiff in the suit.
The defendant, by his attorney,. craved oyer of the bonds, and,
after setting out the same, pleaded "that William P. Craig, one
of the obligors mentioned, was, and is, the same identical person
named William P. Craig as one 'of the obligees in the said bonds,
who, together with the others, 'had indorsed the bonds to the plaintiff, and that the same was therefore null and void at law, and not
the deed of the defendant,"' concluding with a verification.
To which the plaintiff demurred, and the defendant joined in the
demurrer.
The court gave judgment for the plaintiff on the demurrer,
which judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, upon which
this writ of error was brought.
The record not having been filed in time, the cases had been
docketed and dismissed underthe forty-third rule of court, on motion of the defendant in error. Afterwards, a motion was made by
ailfr. Westcot to reinstate them, which.was argued by JMr. Westcott and'opposed by Mir. Thompson ; upon which motion
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the 6pinion of the court.
A writ of error having been allowed in this case, and the record
not having been filed by the plaintiff within the forty-third rule, a
motion was made by the counsel of the defendant, on presenting a
statement of the judgment below, regularly certified, to dock it and
dismiss the cause, which the court ordered to be done. And-now
a motion is made to set-aside that order, on the ground that the
clerk, who certified the judgment, acted without a'ithority.
The certificate objected to is in the proper fornr, is signed by
R. T. Birchett, clerk of the Court of Appeals of Florida, and is
authenticated by the seal of that court.
Florida was admitted into the Union as a State, on the 3d of
March last, but provision was made under the seventeenth article
in the constitution for the continuance of the courts and officers of
the Territory until superseded under the laws of the State. We
think the clerk, having possession of the records of the Court of
Appeals, has a legal right, under its sanction, to certify its judgVOL. IV.
73
ww
-

678

SUPREME COURT.
Bradford et al. v. Williams.

ments, and therefore that the order of dismissal cannot be set aside
on the above ground. But in consideration of a change of government in the Teritory, and the consequent embarrassments and
doubts in regard to this writ o error; and also in consideratien that
the plaintiff in error, in seven days after the above dismissal, made
this motion, and ,asked leave to file the record, the court will set
aside the former order, and permit the record now to be filed; on
the condition, that, at the option of the defendant in error, the plaintiff shall submit the case, on printed arguments, at the present term.
In conformity with the above order, the case was submitted, upon
the following printed arguments, by .Mr. Westcott and Mr. C. J.
Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error, and .Mr. Thompson, for the defendant.
AMr. Wfstcott and .lr. Ingersoll, for the plaintiff in error.
These cases are both depending on the same principles. The
statement of defendant in error, in his brief of the pleadings, is correct. The notice of th court is, however, asked to the particular
form of the cpunts on the bonds sued on. They are described as
the joint and several bonds of Judge, Bradford, and Craig, and as
given to Nuttall, Braden,,and Craig.. They are averred to have
been indorsed by all :he obligees (Nuttall, Braden, and Craig) to
Williams. The plaintiff must recover upon the case made in his
declaration, or not at all, in this action.
'The fact that Craig, named as obligee in the bonds, is also one of
the obligors, is distinctly averred indefendant's plea. The plaintiff Is demurrer admits this fact. The first question, then, arises as
to the correctness of the position assumed by the defendant, that
the bonds are nullities, and cannot he sued upon at law by the
obligees or their assignees.
It is a principle of the common law, that no one can be both
obligor and obligee in the same bond, He cannot sue himself, and
the instrument is a nullity. 1 Plowd6n. 367, 368 ; Co. Litt. 264,
265 ; Bac. Abr. 156, 157 ; Powell on Contract , 438 ; East.
.inan v. Wright, 6 Pick. 321 ; 6 Taunt. 407; 1 Tucker's Comm.
277 ; 2 American Common Law,A12, 414; 1 Chitty's Pleadings,
45 ; 2 Saunders's Rep. 47, note T ; Roscoe on Bills, 43, 44 ; 2
Coventry & Hughes's Dig. 238, art. 9, § 7, art. 7, § 12 ; Turton v. Benson, 10 Mod. A50 ; Mainwaring v. Newman, &c., 2
Bos. & Pull. 120 ; Jks v, Armstong, 3 Dev. 286 ; Taylor's
case, ibid. 288 "; Bonner's case, ibid. 290 ; Shamhour's case, 2
Dev 6 ; Davis v. Somerville,, 4 Dev..382 ; 13 Serg. & Lowb.
328. The court are particularly referred to the North Carolina
cases. above cited.
Independent of all authority, the common sense of,this principle
is so obvious that it cannot be disputed. Delivery, which, with
sealing, is an essential part of a bond. cannot be made by a man to

SANU1GARY TERM, IW46.
Bradford et al. r. Williams.

himself, nor can a man sue himself.

579

This objection, therefore, is

insuperable, unless it can be evaded.
The counsel for'defendant in error, in his submitted brief, does
not seem disposed to contest this position, but it is attempted to be
avided -bycontending that the thirty-third and thirty-fourth sections
of the Territorial statute of 1828 (see Duval's Comp., p. 69, correctly quoted in 2d page of defetdant's brief), alters the common
law on this subject.
The common law was adopted in Florida at the first session of
the Territorial legislature after the cession. (See Laws of Florida
of 1822, p. 53). It has continued, in force in Florida ever
since. In 1898, a revision of the laws was attempted by the legislature, and in the enumeration oi the acts to be continued in force,
the act of 1822, above referred to, was, as is notorioud, by mere inadvertehce, omitted. Until it was re~nacted id 1829, it was contended by same that during that interim the civil law of Spain,
and not the c6mmon law of England, -was to be regarded fs existing in that territory 1 but such position never received the sanction
bf any judicial decision. It is submitted that the common lawonce
adopted as a system in 1822, continued till positively and affirmatively abrogated. A different rule would occasion great.confusion
and embarrassment as to contracts rade in the year 1828, made
according to the rules and forms of the coimnon law, and in thebelief that it controlled them. Yet defendant in error soeks to establish such doctrine.
T he Trritoridl statute cited " vests" the indorsee withthe same
rights, powers, and capacities as might have been "possessed by
the assignor'or indorser ; 'and the assignee or indorsee may bring
suit in his own name." (See§ 34 of statute cited, p. 2, defendant's
brief, and Duvu's Comp,, p. 96.)
1 This Territorial statute does not give to the assignee or indorsee
of a bond any more "ights, ,pwelrs, or capacities," than 11 might

have been possessed-by the vassignor or indorser." The restrictive
viordsi " the same," used in the law, show such intention by the
legislature.' Defendant in error eannot sue as indorsee, unless the
words "1the sme '17 are construed tozean more. It would be as
reasonable to arge that the words ",night have been possessed,"
used in the same clause,.meant that the indorsee of an invalid bond
should have the "same rights, powers, and capacities" as his
indorsee "1might" have had, if the bond had been vatid.
The concluding clause, providing that "the assignee or indorsee
may bring quit in his own name;" was not intended to "vest" him
with such "right, power, or capacity," as an additional right to that
possessed by his -assignor or indorser ; in other words, to sue on
the bond in his own name, even if his assignor or indorser could not
sue on it.' The statute was intended to make valid bondl negotiable, and allow the assignee or indursee to sue in his own name,

5SUPREME

COURT.
Bradford et al.

v. Williams.

which was not allowed at common law ; all the indorser's right to
sue in his own name, is founded on the statute. It was nQt intended
to make abond, invalid before indorsement, become valid by indorsement.
It was never contemplated that it would be used to overturn a
fundamental principle of the common law, that the same person
could not be both obligor and obligee in the same bond, and both
plaintiff and defendant in the same suit.
In this case the counts all allege Nuttall, Braden, and Craig to
be obligees ;.
4ey allege Nuttall, Braden, and Craig to be indorsers,
and they allege Judge, Bradford, and Craig to be the obligors. We
are saved all inquiry as to what might have been properly decided,
if plaintiff had not made these express allegations, and if he had
counted differently, dropping Craig either as obligor or as obligee
and indorser, with appropriate averments.
This case must be
decided on the pleadings ; and they state that Williams, the plaintiff, claims, as indorsee of Nuttall, Braden, and Craig, of a bond
given to them by Judge, Bradford, and Craig. Craig is expressly
alleged to be one of his three joint indorsers. He has, therefore, in
this suit, under the statute, cited precisely " the-same," or 1 all"
(as defendant cites the statute in p. 3 of his brief) "the rights,
powers, and capacities," as his indorsers, Nuttall, Braden, and
Craig, had, and no more. He cannot gainsay his own pleadings.
If these bonds had not been indorsed, could Nuttall, Braden, and
Craig have sued Judge, Bradford, and Craig ?
The cases cited show that they could not at common law, and
the statute gives Williams the same and no additional rights to those
they had.
The argument of defendant in error (page 3 of brief filed),
Jwhich concedes that " Craig sealed, but could not deliver, the bond,
because 'he was one of the obligees; the execution of the bond
was therefore incomplete, until Craig, joining the other obligees in
the assignment to Williams, by that single act compelled the execution," &c., it is submitted, gives up the law of this case upon
these pleadings. The counts are notconsistent with such case as
that made by such arguments. To sustain it, the bonds must be
regarded as being made and delivered directly to Williams by
Judge, Bradford, and Craig, and Craig not regarded as indorser.
The pleadings are the reverse of this supposed case. So, too,
all the arguments and authorities cited by defendant, with respect
to "Cexpress " and " implied " delivery of a deed and "inchoate" instruments, and delivery to part, and not all, of the obligees,
are inapplicable to this case upon the pleadings, and they are conclusively answered by a similar'reference. The cases and rules of
law contended for by defendant in error, if they were conceded,
do not apply to his case, made upon his own pleadings.
The assimilation of this case to those founded upon the rules of

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

581

Bradford et a]. v. Williams.

commercial law, by which bills of exchange and notes, payable to
the order of the .naker, are held valid, and, when indorsed by the
maker, suits sustained upon them, we think will not be sanctioned
by this court. The essential difference between sealed instruments
and simple contracts, and the pleadings upon them, and the distinctions of the mercantile law, are so obvious, that it is not necessary to refer to them. . Nor has the law governing simple contracts
ly partnerships any analogy to the law relating to sealed obligations.
The case of Smith v. Lusher, 5 Cowen's Rep. (cited by defendant in error), was a case turning on both a partnership and a
promissory note, in which, according to the law merchant, and for
securing the free circulation of those negotiable instruments which
have become a convenient substitute for the common currency of
the country, and, in many. respects, equivalent to money itself, the
court could not do less than sustain the right of recovery. But
no bond was in suit in that case, and the whole argument, both at
the bar and on the bench, whenever the case of a bond is alluded
to, shows what would have been the decision if the action had been
upon a bond. The instance of an obligation payable by a mxi to
himself is constantly mentioned as an absolute nullity.
The case cited by defendant from 7 Gill & Johns. 265, is
deemed to be in our favor. The principle for which we contend,
that the bonds declared on were void at common law, is, we conceive, conceded in that case ; arid the only question was, what
constituted an assignment of the instrument then sued on. The
court held the bequest to, be such assignment, especially as it was
delivered to plaintiff by the executor, who was the party owing and
sued. The objection we make in this case at bar, that these bonds
were void in their inception, could not be made in that. The instrument there was confessedly valid, and the objection made was,
that it was extinguished by coming to the hands of the executor.
Whether these bonds can be made valid by any indorsement, atl
whether the court would so hold in a case in which the pleadings
were consistent with a case so made, as before observed, it is not
necessary now to inquire.
The rule admitted by defendant in error (see page 3 of his brief),
that "there is a technical objection to the jurisdiction of a court
of law in cases of suit on a bond in which the same party is obligor
and obligee, and such.suits are properly cognizable in a court of
equity, because it Is in such courts only that adequate relief can be
given," is, however, all-sufficient for plaintiff in error in this case.
We admit, though these bonds are void at common law, the obligors
can be compelled to do justice by a court of equity. The defendant in error states, on same page in his brief, that these bonds are
by one " company of persons to another company or association,
and one of the persons is a member of both." This is but a partial statement of the case. If it had been stated, also, that these
WW*

58W

SUPREME COURT.
Bradford et a'l.
b. Williams.

bonds were given for lands, for which lands bonds to make titles
were given by the obligees, and that the vendors are unable to make
good titles, the justice of the rule conceded by defendant in error,
and the reason and object of a defence against these bonds at law
would be manifest, for, in such case, a court of equity is the only
tribunal proper to decide between the parties.
It ehn scarcely be necessary to observe, that the rule of the
Federal courts, to follow the decisions of the highest State court in
the construction of the local statutes regulating practice in suits,
has never been held to apply to the Territorial courts, which ire
,made subject to the appellate and revisory power of this court by
act of Congresi, which courts are created by Federal legislation,
and, indeed, the legislation of the Territory wholly derived, from
Federal authority; nor does the rule apply to the decision of a
State court, when the question is, ,as in this case, not as to a mere
.matter of practice, but as to a fundamental rule of common law,
and whether it has been abrogated by the statute. Whether three
or four, out of five, judges of the Florida couri concurred in the
decision now under examination, we do not -deem important. If
all had concurred, and if erroneous, it should be reversed ; but, in
answer to the statement in the brief on the other side on this subject, we would remark, that the only judge who filed a dissenting
opinion speaks of the decision as being made by ",a majority of
the court."
Mr. T uompon, for defendant in error.
This was an action of debt, instituted in the Superior Court of
the Middl& Xistrict of Florida by Williams' against the present
plaint" in error, as one of the obligors of four joint and several
bonds, made by, John Judge, Edward Bradford, and Vv illiam P.
Craig, payable to Hector W. Braden, William B. Nuttall, and
William P. Craig, or order, and by the said obligees assigned to
Robert W. Williams, the defendant in error in this court.
The declaration contains five counts,

--

one upon each bond,

and the fifth upon an account stated.
The defendant pleaded two pleas ; the first applicable to the
first four counts, and the second, a plea of nil debet to the fifth
count: The plea to the special counts craves oyer of the writings
obligatory, andialleges, that William P. Craig, one of the obligors,
"was and is the same identical person named William P. Craig,"
as one of the obligees in said bonds, and the same are therefore.
null and void in law, and not the deeds of the said Judge. To
this plea there was a general demurrer and joinder, and the Superior Court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment for the -plaintiff (Williams) according to th6 agreement of counsel filed in the
record.
The cause was removed to the Court of Appeals of the IFlorida

JANrA-RY-TZRM,

1846.

B'fedford et al. v. Williams.

Territery which:L court affirmed the judgment of the Supear
Court.
The questiovwhich presents itself for consideratioi in this case
is tlis:- Doesthefact alleged in the plea, and admitted by he
demurrer, of the identity of William P.. Craig, one of the obligors,
as one of the obligees, render the bonds null and void in law as to
all the obligors, so as to defeat the right of action of Robert W.
,Williams, the assigee ?
We maintain the negative of this proposition, and conteixd that
the present case is clearly distinguishable from the cases cited by.
the plaintifT in. error in irgument in the court below, and which will
doubtess be pressed upon the consideration of Ihe court here. "It
was said that such an instrument was void, because Craig coold not
deliver the instrument to himself, and delivery was essential to the
validity of a bond, and because no action could be maintained upon
it; the same person canot he plaintiff and defendant.
This case, however, is not to be determined by the rules of the
common law, but by the act 6f the legislative, council of Florida,
which has made some important alterations in the law as it formerIystood.
By the thirty-third section of the act of 1828, it is provided,"That it shall not be necessary for any person who sues upon any
bond, note, covenant, deed, bill of exchange, or other writing whereby money is promised or secured to be paid, to prove the execution
of such bond, note, covenant, deed, bill of exchange, or other writing, unless the same shall be denied by the defendant under oath."
The thirty-fourth section provides, -" That the assignment or
indorsement of any of the forementioned instruments of writing
shall vest the assignee or indorsee thereof with' the same iights,
powers, and capacities as might have been possessed by the assignor or indorser. And the assignee or indorsee -may bring suit
in his own name," &c. See Duval's Comp., p. 96.
The character of the transaction, as infetrible from the instruments, seems to have been an indebtedness of several persons
composing one joint company, of which Craig was one, to another
company of several persons, of which he "was also amember, and
the bond was executed as the evidence of that indebtedness. We
admit that delivery is essential to the complete, execution of every
deed, but we contend that where there are several co-obligees, a
formal delivery to all is not necessary (b1oss v." Riddle, 5 Cranch,
351), and we presume where there are several co-obligors a
formal delivery by all to the obligees is equally unnecessary.
In this case we see no valid objection to the delivery of these
bonds by Judge, Bradford, and Craig, the obligors, or by some
one of them, to Braden or Nuttall, representing the obligees.
"Delivery of' a deed may be express, or implied by circumstance, - by saying something and doing nothing, - or by doing

584

SUPREME COURT.
Bradford et al. -,. Williams.

something and saying nothing." Shep. Touch. 57 ; 4 Halst. N.
J. Rep. 153; 1 Johns. Cas. 253; 1 Harris & Gill's Rep. 324;
1 Harris & Johns. Rep. 323.
But suppose the bonds were inchoate, or incomplete in the
hands of the obligors for want of delivery, because Craig could
not deliver to himself. The statute which we have referred to
will, upon the assignment of the instrument, avoid the mere technical objection by providing a person to whom Craig could and
did deliver the instruments. Judge and Bradford sealed and delivered the obligations to the obligees, - Craig sealed, but could
not deliver, because he was one of the obligees, - the execution
of the bond was therefore incomplete until Craig, joining the other
obligees in the assignment to. Williams, by that single act completed the execution ; Williams, the assignee, being invested by
the statute with "1all the rights, powers, and capacities" of his
assignors, and the bond becoming by the mere operation of the
statute payable to Williams, the assignee.
The instruments were not technically void, because inchoate;
they were merely in the progress of creation, and had life and
vigor when complete and perfect. In Kent v. Somerville, in the
Court of Appeals of laryland, it was held that a bequest by the
obligee of a single bill was an inchoate transfer of the bill in writing, which when assented to by the executor is made perfect, and
vests at law in the legatee the bond fide tide or interest in the bill.
7 Gill & Johns. 265, 271.
The bequest in this case was not held void because inchoate
and incomplete; it was only inoperative till it received the assent
of the executor, which completed the act of transfer.
Next, we contend that the bonds were not void because Craig
could not sue himself. This is not precisely the case of a bond
by one person to himself; it is of one company of persons to
another company or association, in which one of the persons is a
member of both.
We admit there is a technical objection to the jurisdiction of a
court of law in such a case ; that such suits are properly cognizable in a court of equity, because it is in the latter courts only
that adequate. relief can be given. It is quite common in the mercantile world for one person to be a member of two firms, and for
one of such firms to become indebted to the other, yet we have
never known such a contract to be held and deemed void, because
a court of common law would not take jurisdiction. And why
should this transaction be deemed void, because the parties chose
to use a sealed instrument as the evidence of their contract ?
As the law formerly stood in Florida, before the act of 1823 before- cited, there was a technical objection to the jurisdiction of a
court of law upon the bonds ; but the act of 1828, making bonds
and " all other instruments whereby money is promised or secured

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

5

Bradford et al. v. Williams.

to be paid" assignable, and giving the assignee a right to sue-in
his own name, avoids the objection,, and, instead of forcing him to
use the names of the original obligees, which would drive him for
his remedy to a court of equity, throws open to him the courts of
law. The suit is in the name of Wit ams, the assignee ; the
plaintiff and defendant on the record are not the same person.
In Florida, since the act of 1828, the analogy between bonds
and notes, in regard to their negotiability, is complete. Prior to
the Stat. 3 and 4 Anne, in England, promissory notes were regarded as mere choses in action ; the transfer or assignment did not
vest the trapsferee with a right to sue in his own name ; the stat.
ute gave them this negotiability by-putting them on the same footing with inland bills of exchange.
It is, and has been for many years, a common practice to draw
both bills of exchange and notes payable to the order of the
drawer and maker, and then, by indorsing and putting them into
circulation, give them vitality and full effect. Now it must be admitted that the action on a note, at law, prior to the statute of
Anne, must have been in the name of the payee, for the use of the
assignee or indorsee ; and if the note were payable to the maker's
own order, such action would have been liable to the common law
objection, that the plaintiff could not sue himself; but since the
statute of Anne, giving the assignee or indorsee a right to sue in his
own nitme, courts of law have sustained actions in the names of
indorsees, or notes payable to the maker's own order, and y him
indorsed to the plaintiff. This is expressly recognized in the
Court of Errors in New York, in Smith v. Lusher. In this
case, a note was made by a partnership composed of several persons, payable to one of the firm, and it was held, that, though no.
action could be maintained by the payee, because he was both
payee and one of the makers, yet the plaintiff, to whom it had been
transferred by indorsement, might sue at law upon the note as indorsee, and recover. It was, say the court, like a note payable
to the maker's own order, and by him indorsed and put into circulation. See 5 Cowen's Rep. 689.
The case of Kent v. Somerville, cited before from 7 Gill &
Johns. 265, also bears strongly upon this case, if not directly in
point. In that case, S., the holder and obligee of a bond, bequeathed the same specific-.ly to A., and made T., the obligor,
his executor; upon the demise of S., the executor, who was also
obligor, assented to the legacy and delivered it to the legatee. It
was objected that the bond was a chose in action of the testator,
and a suit upon it could only have been brought by the executor,
and that he could not sue himself. But the court held, that the be-.
quest was an inchoate assignment, rendered perfect by the assent
of the executor, and that, although, as the law in Maryland
formerly stood, he could not sue upon it at law, either in the name
VOL. IV.
74

586

SUPREME COURT.
Bradford et al. v. Williams.

of the obligee, because he was dead, or in the name of the executor, because he was the obligor and could not sue himself, yet, by
the act of 1829, c.51,'giving to the ashignee of a bond a right to
sue in his own name, he was enabled to maintain the action.
'The application to the case'at bar will be seen in' this': when
the bond, by the demise of S., passed to the executor, itwas in
the same position as the. bonds in the present case while in the
hands of the obligees ; a suit at law could not be maintained upon
it ; but when the executor, who was also the debtor, perfected the
assignment by his assent, then the objection was removed ; so in
the case at bar, where the objection to ihe jurisdiction of a court
of law, because of the identity of Craig as obligor and obligee, was
removed by the assignment to Williams.
It was urged in the court below, that the language of the thirtyfourth section of the act of 1828 was restrictive ip its character,
andgave to the-assignee no other "1rights, powers, and capacities "
than those possessed by the assignee ; but thefe are no negative or
restrictive words in the section, no words of limitation. It expreisly gives the same rights, but does not prevent the assignee
from acquiring any other rights which necessarily result froni=o
spring out of, the act of assignment ; and one of the "Irights, powers, and capacities" possessed by the assignee beyond those previously- had by the assignor, and resulting from or springing out of
the assignment, by the.mere operation of law, is the removal of
the technical objection to the jurisdiction of a court of law.
It was also urged in the court below, that the mention of notes,
in the thirty-fourth section of the act of 1828, was superfluous, as
they were before negotiable by the statute of Anne. We do not see
any force in the argument as applied to this case, but if there should
be, it is easily answered. When the act of 1828 went into operation,
the statute-of Anne was not-of force in Florida ; the act adopting
the common law and the statutes of Great Britain was not passed
until November, 1829. Duval's Comp. 357.
It is believed that -all the c~ses cited by the plaintif" in error in
the court below were suits brought by the obligees against the obligors, where there was no assignment, or where the assignment did
not by law give the assignee a right to sue in his own name.
Thie view of the case here presented was fully sustained by four
outof the five judges composing the Court of Appeals of Florida,
and upon it we confidently Test our right to a judgment of affirm.
ance in this court.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
*Whether the obligees of the bonds in question could have maintained an action it law against the defendant is a question we need
not determine, though it is not easy to perceive the force of- the
o'ection urged against it, nmely, that Craig, one of the co-obli-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

58t

Bradford et al. v. Williams.

gors, is also an obligee. The bond is joint and several, and the
suit against Judge, one of the obligors ; and if it had been brought
in the name of the obligees, Craig would pot have been a party
plaintiff and defendant, which creates the technical difficulty in
maintaining the action at law. It *ould hav6 been otherwise if the
obligation had been joint and not several, for then the-suit must have
been brought jointly against all the obligors.
It has been held, that if two are bound jointly and severally and
one of them makes the obligee his executor, the dbligee may, notwithstanding, maintain an action against the other obligor. Cock
v.Cross, 2 Levinz, 73 ; 5 Baq. Abr.816, tit. Oblig., D. 4.
But conceding, for the sake of the argument, the objection to be
well taken, that a suit at law would not lie in the name of the
obligees, we have no difficulty in maintaining it, even in th aspect
in whi6h the case is presented, and has been argued, before us.
By an act of the legislature of Florida it is provided, -" 1 That
it shall ndt be necessary for any person who sues upon any bond,
note, &c., to prove the execution of such bond, note, &c., unless
the same shall be denied by the defendant under oath." And
also, -" , That the assignment or indorsement of any of the forementioned instruments of writing shall vest the assignee or indorsee
thereof with the same rights; powers, and capacities as might have
been possessed by the assignor or indorser. And the assignee or
indorsee may bring a suit in his own name." Duval's Comp.,
p. 96, §§ 33, 34.
The bonds have been duly assigned in this case, and the suit is
in the name of Williams, the assignee, and it being thus authorized
by the laws of Florida, all difficulty, as to the remedy at law, arising
out of the circumstance of the same party being plaintiff and defendant, is removed.
The act just recited provides that the assignee shall be vested
"with the same rights, powers, and capacities as might have been
possessed by the obligees," and inasmuch as the bonds were uncollectable, at law, in the hands of the obligees, it has been argued
that, upon the words of the statute providing for the assignment and
suit in the name of the assignee, they must be equally invalid and
Inoperative after the assignment, and in his hands.
This argument, doubtless, would be well founded and conclusive
against the plaintiff, if the objection to the bonds was such as went
to vitiate and destroy the legal force and effect of their obligation,
such as usury, illegality or the like, which would constitute a valid
defence to a suit, id any form in which it might be brought. So,
in respect to any other defence in discharge of the obligation,
such as payment, release, and the like. For the assignee takes
the bonds subject to every defence of the description mentioned ;
and can acquire no greater rights by virtue thereof than what belonged at the time to the obligees. This,- we think, is what the

588

SUPREME

COURT.

Bradford et al. v. Williams.

statute intended, and is all its language fairly imports ; and is, indeed, only declaratory of what would have been the legal effect,
without the particular phraseology of the section.
But the only objection here made to the borids in the hands of
the obligees is, the want of legal validity in a court of law, arising
out of the difficulty as to the partie;, one of them being common
to both sides of the obligation ; not that they are alLogether void
and uncollectable, for it is conceded they might have been enforced
in a court of equity. They are ineffectual at ]aw, from defect of
remedy.
Now, the assignment, and ability to sue in the name of the assignees, removed at once this difficulty, and left him free to pursue
his remedy at law ; and, as all parties concerned are to be taken
as having assented to the assignment and delivery to the assignee,
iicluding Craig himself, and the suit in his name being sanctioned
by the law, we are unable to perceive any well grounded objection
to the judgment.
It has been suggested, that there could have been no delivery of
the bonds to the obligees, and hence none by them to the plaintiff,
so as to bind the defendant. But the obvious answer is, that all the
parties, except Craig, were competent to make a delivery, and as
he joined in the assignment, it is not for him to, set up the objection for the purpose of invalidating his own act. The inchoate or
imperfect delivery as to him in the first instance, arising out of his
double relation to the instruments, became complete by his joining
in the assignment and delivery to the plaintiff.
The common case of one partner drawing a bill upon his firm,
payable to his own order, or of partners making a promissory note
payable to the order of one of the firm, which biecomes valid in
the hands of a bon& fide holder, and collectable at law, affords
abundant authority for the principle of the decision in this case.
Smith v. Lusher, 5 Cow. 688 ; Smyth v. Strader et al., decided
this term, ante, p. 404.
The statute of Florida has put bonds on the footing of bills of
exchange and promissory notes, so far as respects negotiability and
right to sue in the name of the assignee.
The above principle is therefore strictly applicable to the case
in hand.
We are of opinion, the judgment of the court below should be
affirmed.

