712

SUPREME COURT.
Woodworth et al. v. Wilson et al.

JA*Rs

G, Wi.sow,

CoMPLAiNAxT AxD ATELLAiT, v. JosEPH

JuNioR, AND JoiN C.TuuNtx,

Tu NF.R,

DEP2DANTS.

The decision of the court in the two preceding cases, namely, that where a patent
is renewed under the act of 1836, an assignee under the old patent has a right
to continue the use of the-ia4hine which heis using at'the tine ofthe reneva],
again affirmed.

THis dase came up, by appeal, from the Circuit Court of 'the
United States for the District of Maryland, sitting as a courtof
eqqty.

The bill was filed by Wilson, as' the assignee of William W.
Woodworth, the administrator of Woodworth, the patentee, as
stated in the report of the preceding case. It set out the patent
and assignment, and then prayed for an injunction and account.
The answer referred to the mutual assignment made between
Woodworth and Strong on the one part, and Toogood, Halstead,
Tyack, and Emmons of the other part, which was recited 'inthe
preceding case, and traced title regularly down -fr6m these latter
parties to the defendants.
A statement of these facts was agreed upon by counsel, and all
the documents set forth at length ; and upon this statement, together
with the -bill and answer, the cause was argued.
At April term, 1845, the court dismissed the bill, and froia this
decreer the case was brought up, by appeal, to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Phelps and Mr. Webster, for Wilson, fbe
appellant aP4 Mr. Schley, for the appellees, who were the detendants below.
A4r. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment of the court in the previous -case of Wilson v.
Rousseau et al. disposes of the-questions in this case, and affirms
the decree of the Circuit*Court.

"WiLLM W. W0DwomTH, ADmINiSTRATOR, &C., AND

E. V. BuiN,

ASSIGNEE, QOrPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. JAxEs, BENxAmIN,

Aiim, ALPE's Wuson.
An objection to the validity of Woodworth's patent for aplaning-ma-hlne, uamelyi
that he was not the first and original inventer thexeof4 is not sustained by the
evidence offered in this case.
Not is the objection well founded, that the specifications accompanying the appliand explicit, so as to enable a mecation for a patent are not sufficiently full
chanic of ordinary skill to build a machine.
An assignee of the exclusive right to use ten machines within the city of Iouisville,
or ten miles round, may join his assignor with him in a suit for i violation ofthe
patent right, under the circumstances of this case.

