494

SUPREME COURT.
Smyth v. Strader et al.

terms used are not recollected by him, and as the patent has been
burnt, they cannot now be proved. We think the Circuit Court
erred in not leaving the jury to act upon the facts, as regards the
difference between the original and th& renewed patent. On the
facts, we should draw a different conclusion from that which was
given to the-jury by the Circuit Court. An allusion .o grooves in
this specification, as more particularly described in the other patent,
would at least show the intention of the patentee, if it did not make
good his patent.
By the thirteenth section of the act of 1836, "if the patent
shall be inoperative or invalid, by reason of.a defective or insufficient description or specification," &c., "1if the error has or shall
have arisen by inadvertency, accident, or mistake, and without any
fraudulent or deceptive intention, it shall be lawful" to surrender
it, &c. Now, as in granting the renewed patent the officers of the
government act under the above rovisions, their decision must at
least be considered as prinm facie evidence that the claim for a
renewal was within the statute. But this would not be conclusive
against fraud in the surrender and renewal, which, on the evidence,
would be a matter for the jury. And we suppose that the inquiry
in regard to .the surrender is limited to the fairness of the transaction. In whatever'manner the mistake or inadvertence may have
occurred is immaterial. The action of the government in renewing
the patent must be considered as closing this point, and as leaving
open for inquiry, before the court and jury, the question of fraud
only.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the qause
remanded to that court, with instructions to award a venirefacia de
11050.

'SAMUEL SMIYTH, PLAINTIFF iN ERROR, v. DANIEL P. STRADER, JAHVES

PERRINE, AND JOHN H. WooDcocK, LATE PARTNERS, UNDER THE FIRM
OF STRADER, PFURINE, & Co.

The statutes of Alabama require the negotiability and character of bills of exchange,
f6reign and inland, and promissory notes, payable in bank, to be zoverned by the
general commercial law.
If a partner draws notes in the name of the firm, payable to himself, and theL
irldorses them to a third party for a personal and not a partnership consideration,
the first indorsee cannot maintain an action upon them against the firm, if he
knew that the notes were antedated.
But if the first indorsee passes them away to a second indorsee before the maturity
of the notes, in the due course of business, and the second indorsee has no
knowledge of the circumstances Qftheirexdcution and first indorsement, he may
be entitled to recover against the firm, although the partner who drew the notes
committed a fraud by antedating them.
But if the second indorsee received the notes after their iraturity, or out of the.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

405

Smyth v. Strader et al.
ordinary course of business, or under circumstances which authorize an inference that be had knowledge of the fraud iii their execution or first indorsement,
lie cannot recover.
These things are matters of evidence for the jury.
Evidence is admissible to show that, in an account current between the first and
second indorsee, no 'credit was given in it for the notes when they were passed
from the first to the second indorsee.
So, evidence of drawing and redrawing between the first and second indorsee,
alluded to in the account current, is admissible. '
The testimony of one of the partners, ofered for the purpose of proving the fraud
committed by the drawer of the notes, is not admissible. This court again recognizes the rule upon this subject established in thecase of Henderson v. Anderson, 3 Howard, 73.
The partner offered as a witness was a party upon the record, and thus, also, disqualified.

THiS case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Alabama.
The facts in the case are stated in the- commencement of the
opinion of the Court, which the reader is requested to turn to and
peruse, before reading -.he argument of couisel.
The case was argued by .Mr. Patke, fodt.e plaintiff in error, and

Ir. Sherman, and ,Mr. Willis Hall, for the defendants in error.

JMr. Parke, for the plaintiff.
The admission of Strader as a witness was an error. A'portion
of the funds of the firm belonged to him, and he was liable to a
contribution if they fell short. 1 Esp. N. P.'Rep. 103 ; Ryan &
loody, 31; 21 Com. Law Rep. 334; 2 Peters, 186. He could
not even be made a good witness by a release. 1 Wharton, 392,
398 ; 2 Penn. Rep. 138 ; 2 Watts, 341, 351. He was not only
interested, but a party to the suit on the record.
There is also an error in the opinion of the court below, that
whatever would be a good defence to a suit brought by the first
indorser was also to one brought by the second indorser ; .that all
equities passed with a nbte as if it were a bond. But previous
errors do not affect an innocent holder, where the note is taken in
the ordinary course of comxercial business. The free circulation
and transmission of promissory notes isindispensable to commercial operations. If any loss should happen it ought to fall upon the
party who is negligent. Collyer on Partnership, 241, 242. A
declaration of partnership implies confidence in the mutual integrity
of the parties. 3 Kent's Comm. 46.
Partners are bound, as respects third persons, even by the
fraudulent acts of a copartner. Story on Part. § 108, 160 ; Collyer
on Part. 241-243.
In this case the evidence shows that the notes in question were
transferred to Smyth for goods sold by him.
But the court say, that if Stinson & Campbell knew the circumstances attending the making -and first indorsement of the note,

406

SUPREME COURT.
Smyth v. Strader et al.

the plaintiff, who is an innocent indorsee, shall not recover. We do
ndto deny that these circumstances would constitute a valid defence,
if the drawers were sued by Stinson & Campbell ; but that is not
the case. If the fraud were proved, it would not defeat our right
to recover ; but the only proof of fraud is in Strader's evidence,
and he ought to be rdjected as an incompetent witness. The
couq below must have founded its instructions upon his evidence.
Gould says, in his testimony, that notice of the dissolution of the
partnership was not published-until the 23d of April, 1836, which
was after the date of the notes in question. . Smyth was not bound
to discredit paper which bore ,ti.e anterio f to a public notice of
the dissolution of the partnership.
Mr. Sherman and JMr. Willis Hall, for defendants in error.
(The arguments of these two gentlemen are consolidated.)
The principle of this case has been stated by the plaintiff's
counsel to be the highly equitable one, that, "of two innocent persons, the one whose laches occasioned the loss must bear it."
But here the equity is all -the other way; here there is no loss.
Nobody has given credit to false paper. It is a bold attempt to
make our client, Jerrine, pay the plaintiff a debt of $ 20,000,
due hin! by Stinson & Campbell, meA with whom our client never
had the remotest connection. The evidence in the case warrants
me in saying it is a gross fraud, from beginning to end, and all that
is required to make it a successful one, is a decision of this court
favorable to the plaintiff.
This high, court will struggle hard, before it will be mode a link
in this iniquitous chain, --before it will be used as an instrument to
effect one of the most palpable frauds ever.exposed to the light.
The suit, though nominally against Strader, Perrine, & Co., is
really against Perrine alone. It is true he. as a member of this
unfortunate concern for "one little month," - from the 1st of November to the 5th of December, 1835, - months before the notes
on which this suit is brougt are pretended to have been made.
These notes are ostensibly dated in March, 1836. although really
made by StevensQn, one of the partners, after the partnership was
finilly dissolved, and so advertised in the Mobile papers of the 23d
of April, 1836. This quondampartner had then no more authority
to sign the partnership name than any other person ; but he antedated them to a time when the partnership was in existence, and he
was authorized to sign the partnership name. This presents 2 case
" on all fours," as the lawyers say with the case of Wright v. Pulham, 2 Chit. Rep. 121, where, in a precisely similar case, the
court hold unanimously that the partnership is not bound by the
note.
In the printed case, the plaintiff's only witness states that the
notes sued upon were received on account of a debt which accrued

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

407

Smyth r. Strader et al.

in 1831, five or six years before the notes purport to be mane.
Other. evidence shows clearly that they were received not in payment and extinguishment of the preceding debt, but for collection, the
proceeds to be credited when received. This brings it within the case
of De la Chaumette v. The Batik of England, 9 Barn. & Cressw.
208, where, under similar circumstances, the property of a note was
held in fact to be-in the assignor, and to be affected, in the hands of
the assignee, with all the equities which existed against the assignor.
On the strength of ihis admission by the plaintiff, we had prepared
to submit an argument to the court almost exclusively on this point;
not by any means because this was the only ground on which a
conclusive defence could be made, but because the other grounds
were too obvious to require comment.
But it now appears, on examining the original record, that 1831 is
a misprint for 1836. The plaintiff has made no admission that the
notes were received for apregxisting debt, and.though the evidence on
that point is abundant, yet, the fact not being admitted by the plaintiff,
it should have been submitted to a jury, and passed -that ordeal,
before it can properly be urged upon the consideration of this court.
We are compelled, therefore, at this late moment, to abandoit our
brief, and employ the few moments allowed us, at the close of the
session, in commenting on the two points made by the plaintiff's
counsel ; - 1st,. the admissibility of Strader's testimony; 2d, the
charge of the judge.
First: Strader is worth nothing, and resides in the State of Ohio.
Under these circumstances, the great anxiety manifested by plaintiff,
as admitted by his counsel, and disclosed by the numerous writs on
the record, to make him a party to the suit, could have been stimulated by no motive but to deprive the defendant of the benefit of
his testiniony. Not having succeeded in that object, he now contends that'his testimony was inadmissible.
1st. On the ground that he was one of the makers, and no man
can be admitted to imp aiclthis own name. To which it is replied,
that he was in no sense a maker. The paper was, in fact, forged
by one of the partners, after the partnership was dissolved. Again,
it is replied, that Strader is not introduced for the purpose of discrediting the paper against the actual members of the firm at the
date of the notes, but to show that Perrine had previously retired,
and was in no respect liable.
2d. A second ground of objection to Strader's testimony is, that
he was a partnerin the firm of Strader, Perrine, & Co., and .that
" one partxier cannot be admitted as a witness for or against his
firm."
That is certainly the general rule ; but one of the exceptions is
where, as in this case, it is proved by other witnesses, that the
transaction is by one of the partners, without the knowledge of the
partnership, on his individual account, and the copartners are

408

SUPREME COURT.
Smyth -. Strader et a].

not liable, as among themselves, to contribution, thqn they may be
witnesses for the firm. Story on Part. 386 ; Phil. Ev. (3d ed.)
55 ; Ridiley v.Taylor, 13 East, 175 ; Le Roy et al. v. Johnson,
2 Peters, 198.
Besides, Strader was not a copartner of Perrine (the sole defendant) at any time during any part of this transaction. The rule
is, that instantly, on the dissolution of a firm, the copartners become
witnesses, the one for the other, like other persons. Gow on
Part, 202.
Although, after the withdrawal of Perrine, the name continued
the same, yet, by that act, the partnership was dissolved, and subsubsequently a new partnership, under the same name, was formed.
Strader, Perrine, & Co. represented very different firms in November, 1835, and in March, 1836.
But the great question which decides the competency of witnesses
inour days is, " Has he an interest in the event?" To ascertain
this, the test universally applied is, "Can the judgment be used in
any other case for or against the witness ? " Willings et al. v.
Consequa, Peters's C. C. Rep. 322 ; Chitty on Bills, 669 ; Gow
on Part. 80.
Suppose Smyth fails in this suit. It is no bar to another suit
against Strader, nor can it be given in evidence by either party in
any possible way. On the other hand, suppose Smyth gains this
suit, Perrine has to pay the money. There is no principle which
will enable Perrine to recover of Strader, or of any member of the
firm of Strader, Perrine, & Co. He cannot make them contribute
for they are not his partners ; nor is there any privity between
them. It is as if his house were burnt down ; it is his misfortune,
and he cannot divide it with his neighbours. He cannot make them
pay the whole, for the recovery is had against him, if at all, on account of his laches, in not publishing his withdrawal to the world, a matter with which his quondam partners have nothingwhateverto do.
But granting that Perrine, if compelled to pay the note, can recover
of the firm, it can only be on the ground of its being a genuine note,
which they would have been bound to pay to Smyth. They cannot,
by an ex parte proceeding, be placed in a worse condition than they
were. The constitution guaranties them a hearing, and the real
parties would be deprived of this right in this case, not having been
parties to the original suit brought by Smyth, if not allowed to
make the same defences against the note in the hands of Perrine. as
they could have made in the hands of Smyth. These elementary
principles forbid the judgment obtained against Perrine from being
used by him against the firm, or any member of it.
We conclude, therefore, that the judgment in this case, whichever party may succeed, cannot be used by plaintiff or defendant
against the.witness Strader.
To illustrate this point still further. It isbelieved to be settled

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

409

Smyth- v. Strader et.al.

law, in this country, that one against whoni a forgery is perpetrated
is a competent witness to prove it, in any suit in' which he is not
interested in the event. Commonwealth v. Snell, 3 Mass. R. 82 ;
The People v. Howell, 4 J6hns. R. 296, 302 ; Pope & Hickman
v. Nance & Co., 1 Alab. (old series) .299.
The facts proved on trial mLke -acasehbf-forery. - It is precisely analagous to the case supposed by Lord Coke, in 3 Inst. 169.
"It is forgery to make a deed of feoffinent to A, and then make
another of prior date to B, which, at the time, he had no power
to.miake."
We cordially unite with the learned counsel for the -plintiff in
soliciting the cort-toiv e-ftl-instctions-to-the inferior tribuial,
with respect to the'wdissibiity6ftrader's-tesfimony, in the possible event of a new trial. We do not anticipate such a decision,
nor comprehend upon what principles of law it can be made. But
it is prudent in all cases to be-prepared for the v orst. -In that spirit
it is, that we ask the otirt, should -theybe'induced-by any-technical
view of the case to send it-back for a new trial, to give minute
directions aato the availability.of notes received merely as contm,gent payment of a precedent debt.
The evidence in this case shows the notes were not transferred.
to the plaintiff in payment and extinguishment of any thing, and that
no credit, no nev consideration was $iven for them, but that-they
wer -in-act-deposited with.the plaintiff for collection, the amount
to becowe-paymem--onr -the double contingency, 1. that the
notes should he collected by the plaintiff; 2. that in the mean
time the original debt should not be paid. But this evidence not
having been distinctly admitted by the plaintiff, or submitted to the
jury, c4nnot-be brought to the attention -ofthis court- except in referenceto-the, possibility of-a, new-trial.
In all cases where notes are given in payment; but-not extinguishment of a preceding debt, that is, where they are to become payment only in case of cdllection, the assignee is the mere agent
of the assignor, and they continue his property, and at his risk, and
subject to all equities against him, as much as if in his actual
possession.
I am aware of the decisions in Riley & Van Amringe v. Anderson, 2 McLean,.589, and Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 1. Both
these-decisions are in-strict -conformity with the principle. In the
first case it was distinctly left to the jury to saywhether the notes
were received in payment or not ; they returned that they were, and
the court held, that though it was an old debt, yet. the assignee,
having received them in payment, held them for value. The same
doctrine is held in Swift v. Tyson, which was an undisputed
case of absolute payment of an old debt. All that is decided by
those two cases is, that it is immaterial whether the note is given
at the inception of a transaction, or subsequently, if it is given in
VOL. IV.

52

II

410

SUPREME COURT.
Smyth v. Strader et al.

absolute payment. In that case, the assignee holds it for value. It
is true that there are some dicta thrown out in the case of Swift
v. Tyson, which require explanation and perhaps limitation; for
example,-at page 20, it is said, -" 1 We are prepared to say that receiving a note in payment of, b as security for. a preexisting debt is
according to the known usual course 6f trade and business." This
certainly cannot be intended to mean that if the note is received,
not in payment, not in pursuance of an original arrangement, and not
for any new consideration, it can be held against the true owner.
The court certainly do not intend to overrule the doctrine of Chief
Justice Marshall in the case of Coolidge v. Payson, 2 Wheat. 66,
which 'is
quoted and relied upon in the per curiam opinion in this
very case of Swift v. Tyson. That memorable judge says, that although a note may be taken for a preexisting debt, yet " in all such
cases the person who receives such a bill ii payment of a debt will
be prevented thereby from taking other mears :,o -.iin the money
due h1rn."1 That is, the payment must be an extinguishment of so
much of the preexisting debt. So in the case of Brush v. Scribner,
11 Conn. R. 388, another case on which this court relies for their
doctrine in Swift v. Tyson. Extinguishment as well as payment
is considered essential to give validity to the transfer of a note assigned for a preexisting debt. The dictum therefore, in Swift v.
Tyson is not to be understood as conflicting with the doctrine of
these two cases.
The cases in 13 Wend. 505, 12 Wend. 593, 10 Wend. 85,
and other cases in the New York courts, are considered by this court,
in.Swift v. Tyson, as maintaining the doctrine, that notes transferred in payment of preexisting debts were not valid in the hands
of the holder. This, I appilehend, is not the doctrine they support.
They must be taken in connection with the doctrine preistablished in
the Court of Errors, Murray v. Gouverneur et al., 2 Johns. Cases,
441 ; " that abill shall not be a discharge of a precedent debt, unless
so expressly agreed between the parties." Taken in this connection, the doctrine they decide is, that paymeni without extinguishment
ij not available to the holder against the equitable owner, which is
precisely the doctrine of Marshall, in Coolidge v. Payson. The
dispute is nothing but a revival of the old question. What is payment ? that is, what is payment and extinguishment ? and what
is merely contingent payment ? And the New York courts have
taken Lord Holt's side of the question. In the case of Ward v.
Evans, 2 Ld. Raym. 930, that eminent judge remarked,-"1 Taking
a note is sometimes payment when a part of the original transaction, but paper is no payment when a precedent debt. I am of
opinion and always was (notwithstanding the noise and cry that it
is the use of Lombard Street, as if the contrary opinion would blow
up Lombard Street), that the acceptance of such a note is not
actual payment ;"for when such a note is given in payment it is al-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

411

Smyth v. Strader et al.

ways intended to be taken on this condition, to be payment if the
money be paid thereon in convenient time."
The dictum under consideration not only says receiving a note
in payment, but "1as security for a preexisting debt, is according to
the known usual course of trade and business."
The court here
must mean to restrict the receiving it as security to the cases, 1.
where it is a part of the original agreement; 2. where some new
consideration is given.
The peculiar province of this species of paper is, to facilitate the
exchanges of value from place to place, and from person to person;
to be deposited as collateral, though a possible, is not an appro-.
priate or natural function of bills of exchange, any more than it is of.
money. Bay v. Coddington, 5 Johns. Ch. 54 ; Collins v. Martin,
1 Bos. & Pul. 648 ; Coggs v. Bernard, 2 Ld. Raym. 917 ; Harrisburg Bank t,.Meyer, 6 Serg. & Rawle, 537 ; Evans v.
Smith, 4 Binn. 366.
Whether money or bills of exchange are deposited as collateral
security, the transaction is not governed by tle laws which govern
the payment of money, or the negotiation of bills, but by the ordinary laws which govern pledges or pawns. Story on Bailments, p.
198, § 290. Assigns of Horseman v. Eden, 1 Bos. & Pul. 298.
Three principles of that law apply: 1. The depositer, or pledger can pledge no more or greater interest than he has .in the property pledged. Code Lib. 8, tit.
16, 1. 6 ; Hoare v. Parker, 2 T. R. 376 ; 1 Dane's Abr., ch.
17, art. 4, § 7 ; Story on Bailments, p. 214, § 22 ; ibid. p. 215,
§ 324. [Bills of exchange are said to be an exception to.this rule.
The exception is believed to relate to the power, not the right, of
transferring the property.]
2. The absolute legal title is not changed, the pledger receiving nothing but a special property, amounting to a lien for his
advance, together with a right of possession. Story on Bailments,
p. 197, § 287.
An advance bona fide made upon property improperly pledged
may be required to be returned. Cortelyou v. Lansing, 2 caines's
Cas. Err. 200 ; South Sea Co. v. Duncomb, 2 Stra. 919 ; 2
Kent's Comm-. 450 ; 1 Dane's Abr., ch. 17, art. 4, § 9. But if
no consideration be advanced, none can be required.
3. The contract of pledge is a distinct and substantive contract,
and requires a legal motive or consideration to support it, as much
as any other.
The conclusion is that the court, by the word payment in the
dictum, in Swift v. Tyson, before referred to; mean payment and
extinguishment, not contingent payment; and -he expression "may
be received as security," must be qualified by adding, but it cannot be held against the equitable owner unless it was part of the
original contract or induced by some new bonsideration.

412

SUPREME COURT.
Smyth v. Strader et al.

But4t is believed the court will not be called upon to investigate
this subject. There are other sufficient grounds for affirming the
judgment. We hasten therefore to reply to the objections to the
charge of the court below.
The charge is, in substance, "1that if Stevenson .(one df the
partners) made and assigned the notes on his own account, without
the consent of his partners, and Stinson & Campbell (the assignors of the plaintiff) kne6wr it, and if Perrine retired from the firm
before the notes bear date, and Stinson & Campbell knew it when
they took the notes, that the jury must then find for the defendant
Perrine."
This charge is justified by three considerations.
1st. By the 9tatute of Alabama, which authorizes the defendait
to file a sworn plea denying the execution. Toul. Dig., ch. 10,
§ 3, p. 462. This is construed to operate as notice to the plaintiff, and throw the burden of proof upon him; Rolston v. Click
et al., 1 Stew. 526. The plaintiff has gone to trial without any
replication, which is construed a direct denial of all the material
facts stated in the plea. Lucas v. Hitchcock, 2 Alabama R. 287.
What, then, were the facts pfit in issue by the plea and denial ?'
(1.) That Perrine withdrew from the firm in December,. 1835,
and Stinson & Campbell knew it. (2.) That. the note was not
made at the time of its date. (3.) That it did not come into the
hands of Stinson & Campbell till after the 17th May, 1836.
(4.) That he did not make the note.
It was certainly incumbent on him to prove all the affirmative
facts which he asserted by joining issue. For instance, he asserts
that the notes were in the possession of Stinson & Campbell before the 17th of May. This is an dssential fact ; for if 8tevenson
delivered them after publication that the partnership was dissolved,
made on the 23d of April, 1836, the notes never received any vitality from the firm. One of the partners had no more power to bind
them after dissolution than one who had -never been a partner.
Bell v. Morrison, I Peters, 371 ; Tombeckbee Bank v. Dumell,
5 Mason, 56. He makes no attempt to prove his assertion. He
does not make out his case. Of course the court would have been
justified in nonsuiting him in the first place, or in subsequently
telling the jury to find for defendant.
2d. The state of the pleadings warranted the charge. A plea
denying the making is authorized by statute, but its form is not prescribed. He chooses to join issue instead of replying over. He
thereby binds himself down to the single point that Perrine made
the notes. To prove which, he must show either that he signed
them himself, or that he authorized some one else to do it. But,
so far from proving this, the proof is, they were made by Stevenson,
without authority, long after Perrine had withdrawn from the firm.
If he had intended to hold Perrine by reason of his laches in not

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

413

Smyth v. Strader et al.

advertising his withdrawal, he should have replied that specially to
Perrine's sworn plea of non estfactum.
3d. The charge is justified by the statute of Alabama, which
enables the defendant to set up the same defences against the
assignee of a note as he could have made against the assignor, if
the note had not been assigned. Toul. Dig., ch. 2, p. 69. This
extends to all legal defences. Rolston v. Clck et al., 1 Stewart,
526. And the law has been construed to apply to notes negotiable
and payable in bank, if not held by !be bank. 'PMurran v. Soia
et al., 4 How. Miss. Rep. 154.
A similar law prevails in most of the new and less commercial
States and has been found to work well in practice. The business
world has undergone a wonderful change within the last century.
Bonds, bills single, and many other common law instruments have
disappeared ; their occurrence is almost as rare as that of the
mammoth, or of the mastodons of old. All kinds of business are
now transacted by notes of hand. The farmer gives his note to
the merchant, the laborer to the farmer, the client to the lawyer ;
but the technicalities of commercial paper have not been so extensively introduced; and if the rigorous rules of the counting-house
are to be applied to the notes of the farmer and of the roughhewer of the wilderness, the most wide-spread injustice will be the
consequence.
Jfr. Parke,"in reply, said that the argument drawn from the
construction of the statute of Alabama was not in the brief of the
opposing counsel, and had been suddenly sprung upon. the court.
The volume containing the entire law was not in court, and was
procured very recently. But it did not cover the ground contended for by the other side, which wa that an indorsee was placed
precisely upon the same footing with a payee. The law of 1812,
it is true, allows payments and set-offs to be pleaded if they existedbefore an assignment was made. But subsequent laws .vaIy- this.
It appears to be admitted by the argument upon the other side,
that the case depends on Strader's evidence. But is he a good
witness ? It is said that we made great efforts to have process
served upon him for the purpose of disqualifying him. But it was
our interest to make ihim a defendant. , He has never become a
bankrupt, and ought to bear his share in paying the debts of the
partnership. If he had withdrawn in fact from active participation
in its affairs, others continued to carry on the same business under
the same name until the 23d of April, 1836.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff brought his action as the second indorsee of two
promissory notes in favor of E. Stevenson, purporting to be signed
by Strader, Perrine, & Co., which partnership consisted of Dan1

*

414

SUPREME COURT.
Smyth .v. Strader et al.

iel P. Strader, James Perrine, E. Stevenson, and John H. Woodcock. The notes' were assigned by Stevenson to Stinson &
Campbell, of New Orleans, and by them to the plaintiff. Stevenson died before the commencement of the suit, and the process
was served only on Perrine and Woodcock. At the fall term of
1842, Woodcock pleadeda discharge unddr the bankrupt law, and
Perine pleaded that the partnership of Strader, Perrine, & Co.
commenced in November, 1835, and that in December of the
same year he withdrew from it. That at the time of leaving the
firm he sold, for one thousand dollars, his interest to Stevenson,
who, by Stinson & Campbell, through one Primrose, paid him
the above sum ; and that they knew of his withdrawal. That
the notes were antedated, and were not in possession of Stinson & Campbell, or assigned to them, till after the 17th of May,
1836.'
Issues being joined on these pleas, the case was submitted to a
jury, who found in favor bf Perrine, -and that Woodcock had been
discharged under the bankrupt law.
The questions for decision arise on a bill of exceptions, taken
by the plaintiff.
The plaintiff proved, by the deposition of Hood, that Stevenson
was a member of the firm of Strader, Perrinei & Co., and that
he executed the notes, and that they are dated -before any publ"c
notice was given of the dissolution of. the firm. That the firm of
Stinson & Campbell were indebted "tothe plaintiff, in a large sum,
in the summer of 1831 ; and that in part payment, the notes, before maturity, were assigned to him, for which a credit on their account was entered. And here the plaintiff's evidence closed.
The defendant, Perrine, proved, "that he withdrew from the
firm the 6th of December, 1835, but that there-was no public advertisement, giving, notice of the dissolution of the firm, until the
23d of April, 1836, although the fact was known to Stinson &
Campbell at the time of Perrine's withdrawal."
'The defendant also proved, by John Test, that in August, 1836,
he saw in the 'hands of the plaintiff's agent an account current between him and the firm of Stinson & Campbell ; that he made a
copy of the same, which he produced, and from which it appeared
that no credit had been entered for the notes sued on.
The plaintiff's counsel moved the court to exclude from the jury
all testimony as to the transactions between Stevenson and the
firm of Stinson & Campbell, orbetween Stevenson and the other
members of the firm of:Strader, Perrine, & .Co., there being no
proof of any notice to the plaintiff of any of these matters insisted
onr by the defendant in his defence. But the court overruled the
motion, and " instructed the jury, that if they believed the said
notes were made by Stevenson, without the knowledge and consent
of his partners, and that he passed them off to the said Stinson &

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

415

Smyth v. Strader et al.

Campbell without tl knowledge or consent of his partners, and
that if the said Stinson & Campbell, at the time of their receiving
*jthe notes, kneW that, prior to that time, to wit, on the 6th of December,. 1835, Perrine had-withdrawn from said firm, and was not
then a partner, and that if it was also proved to them that the said
notes were passed to the said Stinson'& Campbell by Stevenson
forhis individual benefit, and not for the interest and benefit of 'the
said firm, and that this was known to the said Stinson & Campbell
when they received the said notes, that then the jury must find for
Peryine, the defendant." To the above ruling and instruction,.
exceptions were taken by the plaintiff.
From the instruction of the court, it appears the notes in controversy were considered as governed by the law merchant. By the
Alabama staute of 1812 (Clay's Dig. 381), the assignee of
"bonds, obligations, bills single, promissory notes, and all other
writings for the payment of money," may sue in his own name ;
but all equities and grounds of defence remain open as fully as
though the instrument had not been assigned, until thd defendant
had notice of the assignment. Bit by the act of 1828 (Clay's
Dig. 383), it is provided, " that the same remedy on bills of exchange, foreign and inland, and on promissory notes payable in
bank, shall be governed by the law merchant, as to days of grace,
protest, and notice" ; and, by the succeeding section, all other
contracts for the payment of money, &c., are made 1 assignable
as heretofore, and the assignee may maintain such suit thereon as
the obligee or payee could have done, whether it be debt, covenant, or assumpsit."
The phraseology of this section would seem to place all other
instruments, for the payment of money, &c., on.a different footing
fiom those described in the precedinig section. The provision of
that section appears only to relate to the remedy on bills of exchange
and promissory notes payable at bank under the law merchant, as
rega~ds the days of "1grace, protest, and notice." But as the fol-lowing section defines the rights of the a~signee of "I all other contracts in writing for the payment of money," &c., it may perhaps,
be fairly inferred that the legislature intended the negotiability and
character of the instruments above named should be regulated by
the general commercial law. Such seems to be the opinion of
the Supreme Court of Alabama. In the case of McDonald v.
Husted, 3 Alabama Rep. 297, it was held, " that a note made
negotiable and payable at bank is not subject to offset, in the hands
of a bond fide indorsee, who has acquired it previous to maturity,
although it has never been negotiated at the bank where it is made
payable." Also in Beal v. Bennett, 6 Alabama Rep. 156, the
same principle is recognized.
However fairly Stevenson may'have acted in the execution of,
these notes payable to himself, it is clear that he could not have

416

SUPREME
Smyth v.

COURT.

Strader et al.

sustained on them an action at law. A partner of a firm cannot,
at law, sue it, for that would be to sue himself. But -a bonafide
assignee of Stevenson might maintain an action. Jones et al., Assignees, v. Yates, 9 Barn. & Cressw. 532 ; Bosanquet et al. v.
Wray, 6 Taunt. 597 ; Aubert v. Maze, 2 Bos. & Pul.. 371 ;
Smith v. Lusher, 5 Cowen,' 688. Stevenson, in executing the
notes to himself, under the circumstances proved, committed a
fraud against his partners ; and this fraud was greatly aggravated,
if, as alleged, he antedated the notes so as to charge Perrine as
partner. That he assigned the notes- to Stinson & Campbell, if
for any consideration, for one. that was personal to himself, and
wholly disconnected with the partnership, is not controverted.
These facts, or a part of them, of which Stinson & Campbell must
have had knowledge, would have defeated a recovery by them.
Every "contract in the name of the firm, in order to bind the partnership, must not only be within the scope of the business of the
partnership, but it must be made with a party who has no knowledge
or notice that the partner is acting in violation of his obligations and
duties to the firm, or for purposes disapproved of by the firm, or in
fraud of the firm." Story on Partnership, 193. This rule as
well applies to the indor, ement of negotiable instruments as to other
contracts.
But the fraud of Stevenson, and the knowledge of that fraud by
Stinson & Campbell, do not necessarily defeat the plaintiff's action. And the charge of the court on this point was clearly erro*neous. If, before the maturity of the notes, in the due course of
business, and without any knowledge of the circumstances of their
execution and first indorsement, the plaintiff received them, he
may be entitled to recover, notwithstanding the fraud. By "forming a partnership, the partners declare themselves to the world satisfied with the good faith and integrity of each other, and impliedly
undertake to be responsible for what they will respectively do
within the scope of the partnership concerns." Story on Partnership, 161. On this principle, the firm is bound for the frauds committed by one of its partners. Where one of two innocent persons must suffer by the act of a third person, the rule is just, that
'he shall suffer who reposed the higher confidence and credit in
such person.
But if .the plaintiff received these notes after their maturity, he
holds them subject to all the defences which might have been
set up against them in the hands of Stinson & Campbell. Or if
he received them out of the ordinary course of business, without
consideration, or under circumstances which authorize an inference
that he had'knowledge of the fraud in their execution or their first
indorsement, he cannot recover. These are matters of evidence for
the jury.
The testimony of John Test, which was excepted to, we think

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

417

Sm~yth v. Strader et aj.

was rightfully admitted. He proved, that, inAbgust, 1836, he saw
in the hands of an agent of the plaintiff an account current between
him and the firm of Stinson & Campbell. That he copied the account, which copy he exhibited, and from which it did not appear
that a credit had been entered for the notes in controversy. As
this, compared with the evidence of the plaintiff, might conduce to
disprove the consideration alleged to have been paid for the notes
by the plaintiff, it was properly admitted. The. relevancy of the
deposition of Charles, which was also excepted to, is not very ap.parent. It shows that Stinson & Campbell, in 1836, drew a large
amount of drafts, on the plaintiff, in part payment of drafts which
he had previously drawn on them. This drawing and redrawing
constituted no part of the account current spoken of by Test, but
at the foot of the account a memorandum was made of these drafts.
As this deposition conduced to show the nature of tha accounts
between the plaintiff and the firm of Stinson & Campbell, no very
strong objection is perceived to its admission as evidence. It
could not have misled the jury.
The deposition of Strader, which was' also excepted to Ly the
plaintiff, was not admissible under the decisions of this court. He
was one of the firm of Strader, Perrine, & Co., and his testimony
conduced to show the fraud of Stevenson in tle execution of the
notes. In the case of the Bank of the United States v. Dunn, 6
Peters, 57, this court said, - " It is a well settled prinbiple, that
no one, who is a party to a negotiable note, shall be permitted, by
his own testimony, to invalidate it." The same principle was held
in Bank of Metropolis v. Jones, 8 Peters, 12. This was decided
in the case of Walton et al., Assignees of Stitton, v. Shelley, 1
Term R. 296 ; and although that decision was overruled by the
King's Bench in the case of Jordaine v. Lashbrooke, 7 Term R.
601, this court, in the cases cited, and in several subsequent cases,
have established the rule as above stated. In the State courts,
there is a great diversity-of judgment on this point.
Strader was a party on the record, and that rendered him an incompetent witness. Scott v. Lloyd, .12 Peters, 149 ; Stein v.
Bowman et al., 13 Peters, 219.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed,
and a venire de -novo awarded.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
In this case, my opinion is founded on considerations that differ
so much from those proceeded on in the principal opinion, that I
am under the necessity of stating my own views, or of dissenting,
which I am not prepared to do.
In the first place, Stevenson had been one of the firm of Strader,
Perrine, & Co. He made the note payable to himself, and signed
the name of the firm to it. Being both a maker and th nayee, the
VOL. Tv.

53

418

SUPREME *COURT.
Smyth v. Strader et al.

note was void on its face, or at least could have no legal effect; when
negotiated, that is, when it was indorsed by Stevenson, and sold
to Stinson & Campbell, it could only become a binding instrument in their hands on Strader, Perrine, & Co., as Stinson &
Campbell could enforce payment. The time of negotiation, therefore, is the true date of the note.
It is in proof, that the firm of Strader, Perrine, & Co. was
dissolved on the 23d of April, 1836, and that the usual advertisement was then made of the fact. This bound all persons who had
not had previous dealings with the firm; nor is there any proof
found ip the record, showing that either Stinson & Campbell, or
Smyth,'the plaintiff, had had any such dealings. If the note was
negotiated, therefore, to Stinson & Campbell, after thb dissolution
of the partnership, it was void, and does not bind Perrine, inasmuch as Stevenson had no power to bind him.
2. Perrine is pioved to have withdrawn from the firm in December, 1835. But as no regular notice was given of this fact, it rests
on him tobring home knowledge of it to the holder of the paper.
If Stinson & Campbell had knowledge, when they took the note
from Stevenson, then they could not have recovered from Perrine
on it.

So again, if Stinson &,Campbell took the note from Stevenson in discharge of the individual debt of the latter, they could
not recover from Perrine, whether he was or was not a partner at
the date of its negotiation. The proof of either of these events
is imposed on the plaintiff. But having shown either of the two
last circumstances, then the plaintiff is bound'to prove " under
what circumstances, or for 'what value, he became the holder." I
need only refer to Chitty on Bills (9th ed.), 648, for the established
rule. If the plaintiff fails to show, in such case, that he came by
the note in the due course of trade, and before it fell due, then the
defendant is entitled to a verdict.
3. Iaregard -to the question of the competency of Strader's evidence, I have found much difficulty. The competency of Strader to
depose, in the principal opinion, is held to be governed by the cases
of United States Bank v. Dunn, 6 Pet. 51, and Bank of Metropolis v. Jones, 8 Pet. 12. In the one case, Carr, the first indorser,
was introduced by the second indorser, Dunn, ,,ho ii as sued to make
out a defence. In the second case, Jones, the indorser and defendant,
introduces Mr. Blake, the maker of the note, to establish a defence;
ahd, in each instance, this court held that the witness was incompetent to invalidate the negotiable paper to which he was a party;
and the decision in"
Walton v. Shelley, 1 'Term R. 296, was
followed. Of this case, Mr. Chitty says (669), - " Though it
was formerly held, that no party should be permitted to give testimony to invalidate an instrument he had signed, a contrary rule now
prevails "; and refers to Bent v. Baker, 3 Term R. 36, and

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

419

Smyth v. Strader et al.

Jordaine v. Lashbrooke, 7 Term R. 601. "The general rule is,"'
says Chitty, "that it is no objection to the competency of a witness,
that he is also a party to the same bill or note, unless he be directly
interested in the event of the suit, and he be called i support
of such interest; or unless the verdict, to obtain which his testimony is offered, would be admissible evidence in his favor in another suit." This was the principle on which the cases of Bent
v. Baker and Jordaine v. Lashbrooke proceeded. By the statute
of 3 and 4 Will. IV., ch. 42, § 26, for. the amendment of the
law, the rule was enlarged, so as to let in plrties to negotiable paper
as witnesses for or against whom the verdict and judgment might be
evidence, the statute providing that the record should not be evidence for or against them. And thus the law of evidence, in this
regard, now stands in the courts of Great Britain. It is also settled, and had been, long before 1832, when the decision in the
Bank of the United States v. Dunn was made, in a large majority
of the States of this Union, in accordance with the principles laid
'down in Jordaine v. Lashbrooke, and Bent v. Baker; and the
question now is for this court to determine how far the United
tates Circuit Courts, when acting in the States, shall enforce the
doctrine laid down in Dunn's case, and which was- very properly
applied in that of Jones. The decision is,-" That no man who is
S'aparty7 to. the note or bill shall, by his own evidence, invalidate
it." But suppose he is no party to it, and that his name has been
put on it, or to it, by forgery, and he is called on byanother to
establish that the defendant's name was forged, as well as that of
the witness, is he then competent ? 'He gave no credit to the
paper; and, if the. evidence of all those who could prove the defence is cut off, by the mere name appearing, nothing more would
be required to effectuate the fraud, than to put on the names of all
persons who could prove the fraud. In such an instance, I feel
sure the rule laid down by this court does not apply. Nor can I,
satisfactorily td my own mind, distinguish the case put from one
where a fraudulent note is made in the name of a firm, by one of
the original partners, after the dissolution of the partnership, when
he had no authority to use the name of those he attempts to bind.
Indeed, it is difficult to say that Stevenson was not guilty of forgery, if he made the notes, and passed them off to Stinson &
Campbell, after the dissolution of th6 partnership, in discharge of
his own debt, and with the intention, to defraud his former partners. In the cases that -haveheretofore come before this court, the
witnesses proved in advance that they gave credit to the paper, by
signing their names; and that they were, beyond dispute, parties
to it, as well as tbe defendant.
The principle assumed in Walton v. Shelley is in violation of
oi of the most familiar and general principles of evidence known
to courts of justice ; that is to say, that any person of sufficient

40

SUPREME COURT.
Sinyth v. Strader et al.

age and sanity can be a competent witness to depose in any cause
where he is not directly interested in the event of the suit. To this
rule there are exceptions, but they are almost uniformly favorable
to the admission of the testimony, are of comparatively recent origin,
founded on experience, aud conducive to the due administration of
justice in a high degree.
Again, the act of May 19, 1838, declares, that .'4 the forms and
modes of proceeding in suits in the courts of the United States
(in States admitted into the Union since 1789), in those of common law, shall be the same in each of those States respectively as
are now used in the highest court of original and general jurisdiction
of the same."
That 'he court below proceeded, in the admission of Strader
as a witness, according to the modes of proceeding in the Circuit
Courts of the State of Alabama, is not questioned. The method
and manner of administering justice in the State courts is the mode
referred to in the act of Congress, as I understand it ; and I cannot
resist the conclusion, that the modes prescribed by the act of Congress to the federal courts held in that State embrace the rules
in regard to the competency of evidence ; without evidence there
can be no proceedings; rules for its admission are indispensable ;
these rules must be derived from some authority ; from statutes
.they cannot be, and therefore Congress has said the State courts
shall furnish them to the foreign tribunals administering the laws
there, -and this for the plain reason, that the measure of justice
shall be the same in the foreign that it is in the domestic tribunals,
and-evidence is the measure of justice in .great part.
There can be no objection to the competency of Strader beeause he was a party of record. The original writ issued against
him and Perrine jointly ;.but Strader was not found, and a nolle
proeequi was entered as to him, and Perrine was declared against
alone.
I concur that the charge of the Circuit Court was erroneous in
so far as it assumed that the instruments sued on were subject to
'the same equities in the hands of Smyth that they were when held
by Stinson & Campbell. The courts of Alabama have construed the statutes of that State affecting negotiable paper, and-held
they did not apply to notes payable in bank ; of which description
are the'ones sued on. The charge, therefore, violated the commercial rule, that the innocent indorsee takes the paper discharged
of a previous -infirmity.

