JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

17

Levi v. Thompson et al.

demurrers, the District Court held that these pleas were sufficient in law to bar the plaintiff of its action, and gave judgment in
favor of the defendant. From this judgment the present writ of
error is brought.
The case was submitted to the court without argument by the
Attorney-General, for the plaintiff in error, referring the court to
13 Pet. 519. No counsel appeared for defendant.
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.'
The only question arising on this record is, whether, by the
laws of Alabama, a contract made in that State by the agents
of a corporation created by the law of another State is valid.
This point was fully considered and decided in the case of the
Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519 and cannot now be considered as open for argument in this court. The principles decided in that case must govern this ; and the judgment of the
District Court is therefore reversed, with costs.

Arxwutmm

Luvi v. Join THomrso.ET AL.

The holder of a register's certificate of the purchase ofa lot in the town of Dubu.
ue, lawfully acquired, and issued bythe register under the two acts of 2d July,
836, and W March, 1837, has such an equitable estate in the lot, before the
isuinorfa patent as will subject the lot to sale under exedution uhder the statute of Io. K

The doctrine established in the case of Carroll v. Safford, 3 Howard, 441, reviewed and confirmed.

Tir commissioners under the act of the 3d of March, 1837,
amendatory of the act entitled " An Act for laying off the Towns
of Fort Madison," &c., approved July 2d, 1-836, confirmed unto
Alexander Levi and John Thompson, as tenants Im common, the
right of purchase, by preemption, of lot No. 68, in the town of
Dubuque, being of the first class, containing seventeen one hundredths of an acre. The 'lot was entered in the land-office, and
the receiver's receipt given to Levi and Thompson for the purchase money, on the 19t of April, 1840. It appears that William
Chilson and Joel Campbell had instituted a suit, on the common
law side of the District Court of Dubuque County, against Levi
and Thompson, and that judgment was'rendered against them for
$780"50 and costs of suit, in August, 1839. -Execution was issued upon the judgment in due form of law ; -it was placed in the
sheriff's hainds to be executed, and.he levied upon the lot for which
Lee and Thompson had a preemption certificate, and the same
was sold tO satisfy the execution, before a patent had been issued
VOL. IV.
3
B

18

SUPREME COURT.
Let!i v. Thompson et al.

by the United States to Levi and Thompson for the same.
Thompson, the tenant in common with Levi, became. the purchaser, paid the purchase money, and~took the sheriff's deed for
the same. Thompson, in November, 1841, sold the lot to the
other defendants, who had paid for the same before Levi sued out
his bill. They state, in their answer to Levi's bill, that when they
bought the lot from Thompson, they were informed by him, and
so supposed the fact to be, that he had a full and perfect right
thereto, free from all encumbrances and of all claim by any other
person or persons, and that at the time of their purchase, and
when they made the payments to Thompson for the same, they
were utterly ignorant of any title or claim to property in Levi, or
that he set up or pretended to have any claim or title to the same.
That the first notic, they bad of any such claim by Levi was
about tfree weeks before the date of their answer to his bill, when
he sent them word that he desired them to make a division of the
propeity with him. They further state, at the time of their purchase there was a small log-house upon the lot, of little or no
value to them, which they tore down and removed., That they
went into quiet and peaceable possession of the lot at the time of
their-purchase, and have so remained ever since ; that -they had
made lasting-and valual le improvements upon the lot; that for a
'considerable part-of-the time whilst- they were making these improvements, Levi had been in the city of Dubuque, and they believe
must have discovered them, as he frequently passed and repassed
the lot, and never informed thein bf his having any claim to the
same. The cause was. tried in the'District Court, upon the bill
and answers of the defendants, and the court adjudged that the
petition of the complainant should be dismissed. An appeal was
taken to the Supreme Court, and that court affir'med the decree
.of the court below,; and from that court it has been brought to
this court by appeal.
The cause was submitted' on printed arguments, by Mr. Wash.
ington Hunt, fo the appellant, and Datis aid "Crawford,for the
appellees.
.Mr. Hunt contended, that the legislature of the Territory of
Iowa could confer no authority upon the sheriff to sell ,the property in question, because the title was yet in the United States,
and had not passed to Levi and Thompson at the time of the sheriff's sale, and cited Bagnell et al.. v. Bioderick, 13 Peters, 436,
and Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 498, 516; 517.
He also contended. that the sheriffIs deed could pass no title,
becatdse it was sold as real estate, whereas the fee simple was at
that time in the United States.
.Mr. Hunt also raised other objections, which it is not neces-

JANUARY ' TERM, 1846.

19

Levi v. Thompson et al.

sary to state, because the decision of the court turned upon a
single point.
.Masrs. Davis and Crawford, fox the appellees, relied upon the
validity of the statute of Iowa.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question raised by the plea tings in this cause,.and it
seems to us the only one argued at its hearings in the District and
Supreme Courts of Iowa, was, whether the lot, for which Levi
and Thompson had a preemption certificate, which htd been entered and paid for by them, was or was not liable to be sold upon
execution issued upon a judgment rendered against them previous
to apatent having been issued for the land by the government of
the United States. Their right to a pie~mption purchase of the
lot .was acquired under the act of the 2d of July, 1836, ch.262,
entitled "1An Act for hying off the ,Towns of Fort Madison and
Burlington, in the Coimty of Des Moines, and the Towns of
Bellevue, Dubuque, and Peru, in the County of Dubuque, Territory of Wisconsin,and for other Purposes," and under the act-of
the 3d of March, 1837, oh. 36, amendatory of the preceding act
just recited. The right of Levi and Thompson to a preemption,
under those acts; is not a controverted point in the case. Taking
it for granted, then, that it had been lawfully acquired, that they
entered the land in the proper office, and that it was paid for in
their names, this'gave them the right to the register?s certificate of
purchase, to be transmitted to the commissioner of the general
land-office, as in other. cases of the sale of public lands. The
fee continues in the United States until the issue of the patent,
but the right to the fee was in the purchasers, and they were entitled to a patent-for the land, unless there was some legal objection
by the United States against issuing it, of which this court is not.
aSvised.
This right to the fee and a patent in this case gave to Levi and
Thompson that 11 equitable right" to the land, under the certificate from the receiver of the land-office, which the law of Iowa
has made subject to execution for the satisfaction of judgments.
Stat. Law Ter. of Iowa, 197, January 25th, 1839.
We further rematk, that the principle upon which the case of
Carroll v. Safford, 3 How. 441, was decided, covers this case.Nor do we find any thing in the'cas6 of Bagnell v. Broderick; or
of' Wilcox v. Jackson, cited by the counsel for -the plaintiff
in error, or in any other case decided by this court, which conflicts with-the decision it here gives.
We direct the decree of the court below to be affrmed.

