298

SUPREME COURT.
Knox et a]. v. Smith et al.

we have no power to look into the bill, on a writ of error, as it is
the creature of statute, and restricted to the points stated. 13 Edw.
1, c. 31. And only so much of the evidence given on the trial as
may be necessary to pesent the legal questions thus raised and
noted should be carried into the bill of exceptions. All beyond
serves only to enctimber and confuse the record, and to peiplex
and embarrass both court and counsel.
We have no concern, on a writ of error, with questions of fact, or
whether the finding of the jury accords with the weight of the evidence. The law has provided another remedy for errors of this
description, namely, a motion in the court below for a new trial,
on a case made. More attention t6 the practice in drawing up the
bill of exceptions, and to method and order in making up the error
books,-would greatly relieve the court, avd enable counsel to bring
out more readily and distinctly for- coiisideration the legal questions involved. The earlier forms under the statute giving the bill
of exceptions are models which it would be wise to consult and
adhere to.
We think the judgment in the Circuit Court should be afrmed.

JoHN KNo, J~xts Bowas, AND Simas A. KNqox, TRADING
FiRx or KNox, BOGGS, & Co., APPELLANTS, v. PEYTON

UNDER T=E
SMrTH AND

OTHERS, DEFENDANTS.

A bill in chancery which recites, that the complainants had recovered ajudgment at
law in a court of the United States, upon which an execution had issued and been
levied upon certain property by the marshal; that another person, claiming to
hold the property levierupon by virtue of some fraudulent deed of trust, had obtained a process from a State court, by which the sheriff had taken the property

out of the hands of the marshal; and praying that the property might be sol,
I
cannot be sustained.
If the object had been to set aside the deed of trust as fraudulent, the fraud, with
the facts connected with it, should have been alleged in the bill.
There exists a plain remedy at law. The marshal might have brought trespass
against the sheri or applied to the court of the United States for an attach.
mient.
No relief can be given by a court of equity, unless the complainant, by his allegations and proof, has shown that he is entitled to relief.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of West Tennessee, sitting as a court of equity.
The appellants had filed a bill against the defendants, which bill
was-dismissed by the Circuit Court.
The facts in the case were these.
On the 23d of March, 1839, Probert P. Collier, of the county
of Tipton and State of Tennessee, executed to Peyton Smith, of
the same State, a deed of trust, reciting the indebtedness of Collier
to sundry persons, and proceeding as follows :-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

299

Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

"Now, the above-named creditors, to wit, Robert B. Clarkson,
Jordan Brown, Isaac Killough, Stephen Smith, James D. Holmes,
Samuel A. Holmes, Joseph T. Collier, and Forsythe, Goodwin,
& Co., merchants of New Orleans, being willing to wait and give
the further indulgence of !eighteen months longer from the date of
tfiis indenture with the said Probert P. Collier, upon having their
debts and the interest accruing thereon ; and the said Probert P.
Collier being willing to give them a certain assurance that their
money shall be paid at the expiration of eighteen months from this
date ; and the said Probert P. Collier being extremely desirous to
save harmless and secure from all liabilities his indorsers as above
described on the several notes already specified in this indenture
as such indors'ers.
" Now, therefore, this indenture witnesseth, that the said Probert
P. Collier, as well in consideration of securing the said Robert B.
Clarkson, Jordan Brown, Isaac Killough, Stephen Smith, James
D. Holmes, Samuel A. Holmes, Joseph T. Collier, and Forsythe, Goodwin, & Co., merchants of New Orleans, in the faithful
payment of their debts and interest as aforesaid, and securing and
saving harmless his indorsers as aforesaid, as also the sum of one
dollar to him the said Probert P. C61lier in hand paid by the said
Peyton Smith, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, bath
this day granted, bargained, sold, transferred, assigned, and set
over, and by these presents doth grant, bargain, sell, transfer, assign, and set over unto the said Peyton Smith the fdllowing real
estate and personal property, to wit, as hereafter described, to
wit: "
(The deed then enumerated several tracts of land, some slaves,
horses, mules, and furniture, and proceeded as follows'.)"
"And each and every of them to the said Peyton Smith, his
heirs and assigns, to the proper use and behoof of the said Peyton
Smith, his heirs and assigns, for ever.
"In trust, however, and to the intent ar ' nurpose, that if the said
three notes, payable to the said Robert B. Ctlarkson, for six hundred and twenty-five dollars each, dates as above dscribed ; also
the note, payable to Jordan Brown, for one hundred and eighty-two
dollars, on which said note there has a judgment been obtained before
Robert J. Mitchell, justice for said county ; also the note, payable
at the Memphis Bank, indorsed by Joseph T. Collier, James D.
Holmes, and Samuel A. Holmes, for five hundred and forty-four dol.
lars, now in judgment in the Tipton Circuit Court; the one payn ble to
Forsythe, Goodwin, & Co., commission merchants of New Orleans,
for five hundred and sixty-one dollars, now in a judgment as above
described ; also the note, payable to Isaac Killough, for four hundred and twenty-one aollars, now in a judgment as before described ;
the one payable to Randolph Merchants' Association, for two
hundred dollars, indorsed by Gabriel Smither, James D. Holmes,

300

SUPREME COURT.
Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

and Samuel Glass, dates as above described . the one payable to
Stephen Smith, for. nine -hundred dollars, dates not recollected ;
the one payable to the Branch Bank of the. State of Tennessee,
at Sommerville, for five hundred and eighty-one dollars, dates not
recollected, indorsed by Joseph T. -Collier and James Hudley ;
the one, payable to James D. Holmes, and Samuel A. Eloines,
mercha'nts, for three hundred and fifty dollars, due and payable 1st
of January, 1839 ; the note, payable to Joseph T: Collier, for the
sum of four hundred dollars, dates not recollected. All of the
above notes not well and truly paid, with all lawful interest accruing thereon ; and if each of his indorsers, as appear on the several
notes described in this indenture, are not entirely secure from each
and all of their liabilities by him, the said Probert P. Collier, or
some other person for him, before the expiration of eighteen
months from this date ; then and in that case the said Peyton
Smith, in executing this trust, hereby taken upon himself, advertise
the said real and personal property for the space of twenty days,
in a paper printed at Randolph, Tennessee, and by written advertisements, at four of the most public places in the county, one
of which shall be at the court-house door of the county aforesaid,
that he will expose to the highest bidder the said, land and negroes,
horses, mules,- household furniture, and kitchen furniture, spinningmachine and loom, the barouche and harness, wagon and gear, and
blacksmith's tools ; one of the said lots in the town of Covington,
the one on which the said Probert P. Collier resides, on a particular day, for ready money; and if the money be not still paid on
that day, designated as aforesaid, then the said Peyton Smith sball
proceed to sell the above described real and personal property for
ready money to the highest bidder, and after such sale, to make
good and sufficient deeds and bills of sale in fee for said property,
conveying all the right and title the said, Probert P. Collier or his
heirs may have in and to the same.
"And this indenture further witnesseth, that the said.Probert P.
Collier is to still keep and retain the said land and personal property as above described in his own possession, subject for all losses
which the said property may sustain, until the expiration of eighteen months from this date ; and provided, nevertheless, that if the
said money and interest should be paid before the day of sale
herein mentioned, and his indorsers secure from liabilities as aforesaid, then this indenture to be wholly void and of no effect, either
in law or equity.
"In witness whereof, the said Probert P. Collier hereunto sets
his hand and seal, this the 23d of"'Iarch, 1839.
PROBERT P. COLLIER.

[SEAL.]

PEYTON SMITH.

[SEAL.]

"Winessed by
J. P. FARRINGTON,
F. "X. GREEN."

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

01

Knox et al. v. Smith et.al.

On the 4th of December, 1839iKnox, Boggs, &Co., citizens of Pennsylvania, brought a suit in the District Court of the
United States, possessing Circuit Court jurisdiction, and sitting
for the District of West Tennessee, against Thomas Eckford and
Probert P. Collier, as indorsers of sundry promissbry notes held by
Knox, Boggs, & Co.
On the 8th of April, 1840, a'judgment was rendered against
these defendants in the above court, for the sum of $ 3,56 '20.
On the 24th of April, 1840, a writ of fierifacias, founded on the
foregoing judgment, was issued, and the execution levied on seventeen negroes and four mules, as the property of P. P. Collier, being
a part of the property included within the deed to Peyton Smith.
A forthcoming bond was taken, with the following condition :"1Now, if the said P. P. Collier shall deliver the property at
Covington, on the 21st day of September, 1840, then and there to
be sold to satisfy said judgment and cost, then this obligation to be
void ; else, to remain in full force.
[SEAL.]
P. P. COLLIER.
(Signed,)
[SEAL.]
M. BRYAN.
[SEAL.]
HY. FEEZER.
FRED. R. SMITH. [SEAL.]"
About this time, although the record does not say precisely when,
Smith, the trustee, applied to the judge of the District Court for an
injunction to restrain the sale, upon the ground that the -proprqbelonged to him and not to Collier, but the judge declined to grai,,
it. He then applied to the Chancery Court ai Brownsville (a
State court of Tennessee), and, upon filing his bill for relief, obtained an injunction.
On the 21st of September, 1840, when the property was to be
delivered under the forth-c0ming bond, the marshal made the following return.
"Bond forfeited, and sale of the negroes and mules levied on
enjoined by order of the Chancery Court at Brownsville, 21st Sept.,
1840.
ROB'T J. CHESTER, far. West Tenn."

On the 27th of October, 1840, an alias fieri facias was issued
upon the judgment in the District Court,: and placed in the hands of
the marshal, who levied-it, on-the 6th of November, upon the same
negroes and mules which were the subjects of the former execution. Another forthcoming bond was given for the delivery of the
property on the 5th of December, 1840.
,On the 20th of Novehiber, 1840,,the Chancery Court at Brownsville issued the following order.
VOL. TV..

z

302

SUPREME COURT
Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

"STATE

OF TENNESSEE :

To the Sheriff of Tipton County, greeting:
. Whereas, it hath been represented unto the chancellor, in our
'Chancery Court af Brownsville, in the western division of the State
of Tennessee aforesaid, on the part of Peyton Smith, trustee, &c.,
complainant, that he has lately exhibited his amended bill of
complaint in our said Chancery Court, against Knox, Boggs, &
Co., P. P. Collier, and Robert J. Chester, defendants, to be
relieved touching the matters therein complained of; in which said
bill it is, among other matters, set forth, that the said defendants
are combining and confederating to injure the complainant touching
the matters set forth in said bill, and that their actings and doings in
that behalf are contrary to equity and good conscience.
"We, therefore, in consideration of the premises, do strictly command you, the said sheriff of Tipton county, Tennessee, that you
do absolutely seize and take into your possession, immediately and
forthwith, at all hazards, the following negro slaves, to wit : Jack,
Jim, Jane, Marcella, Zilpha, Washington, Margaret, Doll, Bryant,
Toney, Catharine, Cully, Cynthia, Sam, John, Clara, and
-Lucinda, heretofore levied on by the marshal of West Tennessee,
as the properly of said Collier, to satisfy a judgment in favor of
said Knox, Boggs, & Co. ; and do you safely and gecurely keep
said slaves, so that you have them forthcoming to abide the further
order of our said Chancery Court ; and this you shall in no wise
omit, under the penalty prescribed by law.
" Witness, Sheppard M. Ashe, clerk and master of our said court,
at office, in Brownsville, this second Monday in.November, 1840,
and in the 65th year of American independence.
SHEPPARD M. ASHE, Clerk and Master."
On the 5th of December, 1840, when the second forthcoming
bond was due, the sheriff, acting under the order of the Chancery
Court of the State, and the marshal, acting under the execution issued by the District Court of the United States, both made returns.
The sheriff's return was as follows : 11 Levied this attachment on all the within-named negroes, except
Jim, who was not found, nor was he levied on by the marshal of
Tennessee.
J. HORNE, Sheriff Tipton county."
" Dec. 5th, 1840.
The marshal's return was as follows : "1The property executed, delivered according to bond; and
then arrested from me by the sheriff of Tipton, under an order of
the Chancery Court at Brownsville ; bill filed ; see inclosed.
ROB. J. CHESTER, Mar."
"5th Dec., 1840.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

303

Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

On the 8th of April, 1841i Knox, Boggs, & Co. filed a
bill in the District Court of the United States (the same gourt in
which they had obtained their judgment), reciting all the circumstances of the case, stating that Smith claimed under a fraudulent
deed of trust, and alleging that a State court had no right, power,
or jurisdiction to enjoin the process issued from tht District Court
that Collier and the securities upon the delivery bond combined
and confederated with Peyton Smith to prevent the sale of the prdperty levied upon, and so defeat the execution of the complainants,
who had now no adequate and complete remedy at law. The bill
prayed that Collier and Smith and all the securities might be made
defendants to answer, and that the property might be sold to pay
the judgment obtained by the complainants.
Some of the defendants demurred to the bill, but the demurrers
were overruled, and they were ordered to answer.
On the 10th of November, 1841, the Chancery Court at Brownsville passed, the following decree in the case of the bill which had
been filed by Peyton Smith, and in which he had obtained an
injunction, as before stated.
" Be it remembered, that this cause came on to be heard on this,
the tenth day of November, eighteen hundred and 4fr1y-one, before
the Hon. A. McCampbell, chancellor, upon the orders pro confesso
against said defendants. And it appearing to the satisfaction of the
court, that in March, eighteen hundred and thirty-nine, defendant
Collier made a deed conveying to complainant, amongst other
things, the following negro slaves, to wit : Jack, Jim, Washington,
Margaret, Doll, Marcella, Zilpha, Bryan, Toney, Catharine,
Cully, Chloe, Phillis, Sam, John, Lucinda, and Cynthia; which
said deed was executed by said Collier to complainant in trust to
secure the payment of certain debts in the same specified ; and by
the terms of said deed said Collier was to remain in possession
of the property conveyed in the same for the space of eighteen
months from and after the execution of said deed ; and in the event
that the debts specified in said deed were not paid on or before
the expiration of the eighteen months from the time of the execution
of said deed, the property specified in the same was to be sold by
complaitant, and the proceeds arising from said sale to be applied
by him to the liquidation and settlement of the debts set forth in
said deed.
SArid it further appearing, that said deed was duly proven and
registered, and that the debts specified in said deed are bond fide,
and due and owing, with the exception of about five hundred dollars, which has been paid by said Collier since the execution of said
deed ; and that said deed was executed in good faith, and there is
rib fraud in the same.
" And it further appearing to the satisfaction of the court, that after

304

SUPREME COURT.
Knox ot al. v. Smith et al.

the execution, probate, and registration of said deed, defendants
Knox, Boggs, & Co. recovered a judgment* in the District Court
of the United States, in the eighth circuit, for the State of Tennessee, at Jackson, for about the sum of three thousand four hundred and sixty-two dollars and twenty cents ; upon which said
judgment a writ of fierifacias issued to defendant Chester ; who,
by virtue of said writ of.ieri facias, seized and took into his possession said negro slaves, Jack, Jim, Washington, Doll, Marcella,
Zilpha, Bryant, Toney, Catharine, Cully, Chloe, Phillis, Cynthia,
Sam, John, and Lucinda, and that defendant Chester was about to
sell and dispose of said negroes slaves.
" And it further appearing to the satisfaction of the court, that
defendants acquired no lien on any of said several negroes slaves by
virtue of their said judgment and execution ; and that said slaves
ought not to be appropriated in satisfaction of the same.
"It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the court, that
the injunction heretofore awarded in this cause be made perpetual ;
and that said defendants Knox, Boggs, & Co., and said Robert J.
Chester, be, and are hereby, restrained perpetually from selling or
otherwise controlling either of said slaves under and by virtue of
said judgment and execution.
"It is further ordered, that the sheriff of Tipton county deliver
said negroes over to complainant ; that complainant pay all costs
herein expended, for which execution may issue. And that complainant recover of defendants Knox, Boggs, & Co., and Robert J.
Chester, the costs of suit herein expended; and that defendant
Collier recover of complainant the cost by him about this suit expended; for which executions may issue."
In April, 1842, the respondents answered the bill filed by
Knox, Boggs, & Co. in the District Court. It will only be
necessary to refer to the answers of Smith and Collier. Smith
denied that the deed of trust made to him was fraudulent as against
creditors, but averred that the same was made in good faith ; that
he was governed by no other feeling or desire than a wish to discharge his duty as trustee ; that the cestui qu. trust looked to him
to protect the property ; denied all combination and confederation
with any person, &c., &c. Collier admitted the truth of the facts
as they are set forth in the preceding part of this statement,
denied that the deed to Smith was fraudulent, but averred that it
was made in good faith, &c., &c.
In May, 1842, a general replication was filed by the complainants.
On'the 5th of August, 1842,' interrogatories were filed on the
part of the complainants, and the depositions of four person taken.
Chester, the marshal, was asked to state the value of the property
conveyed by the deed of trust, to which he answered' as follows.
.Inswer. 11 I believe, from the ages, &o , of the negroes mentioned

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

305

Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

in the deed of trust, and what I saw of them when delivered to me,
that they were worth, at the date of conveyance, seven to eight
thousand dollars .;, I do not know what the mules and horses are
worth, nor am I acquainted with the -value of the land or the town
lots."
Harris and Smith answered as follows.
.8nswer. III, J. W. Harris, have examined the deed referred to
in said interrogatory, and suppose the negroes, judging from their
age and size, as stated in said deed of trust, to have been worth, at
the date df said deed, seven thousand six hundred and fifty dollars ;
not being personally acquainted with but few of them, can only state
their value from what appears to be their ages in the deed. Horses
and mules supposed to be worth four hundred dollars; household
and kitchen furniture supposed to be worth four hundred and eleven
dollars, including spinning-machine, barouche, blacksmith's tools,
and loom. As to the land, I have no idea what it was worth,
never having been upon it that I know of, and not being acquainted
with the value of land." ,

111, A. W. Smith, answer and say, that I am acquainted with the
property conveyed in the deed mentioned in the above interrogatory, and believe it to have been worth, at the date of the said deed,
ten thousand three hundred and sixty-six dollars."
Clarkson was interrogated is to the amount which Collier owed
to him, to which he responded, that it was a balance of eleven or
twelve hundred dollars.
On the 16th of October, "'43, the cause came on to be heard on
bill, answers, replication, and proof, when the bill was dismissed,
with costs. From which decree an appeal brought the case up to
this court.
The case was argued by ,Mr, Brinley, for the appellants, and
J.1r. JXilton Brown, for the appellees.
AXr. Brinley, for the appellants.
It may -beproper to make two statements, preliminary to arguing
the points which are most material. The one is, that the original
action was instituted in the District Court of the United States for
West Tennessee. That was a correct proceeding, because that
court had Circuit Court jurisdiction imposed upon it by the act of
January 18th, 1839. 5 Lit. & Brown's ed. 313.
The other remark is, that the delivery bonds adverted to were
taken in conformity to the laws of Tennessee. They provide,
that when any execution may be levied on real or personal property, if the debtor shall give sufficient security to the officer to
have the goods and chattels forthcoming at the day and place of
sale, it shall be the duty of the officer to take a bond payable to the
creditor for double the amount of execution, reciting the service of
z*
39
VOL. Iv.

306

SUPREME COURT.
Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

the execution, and the amount of the money due thereon, conditioned
for the true performance of the same. Laws of Tennessee, 1801,
ch. 13 (Caruthers & Nicholson's Compilation, 129).
The act of Tennessee of 1831, ch. 25, provides, in the first
section, that the securities in such a bond, if forfeited, shall not
be responsible for more than the value of the property. The second
section provides, that if an execution be levied upon personal
property, and bond and securityshall be given for the delivery of
the property upon the day of sale, and the bond shall be forfeited,
in whole or in part, then the officer shall proceed to levy upon so
much of the defendant's property as may be found, as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the execution ; if he finds no property of the
defendant, then he shall levy upon property of the security or securities in said forfeited delivery bond. Laws of Tennessee (Caruthers & Nicholson's Compilation), 129.
Let us now pass to the consideration of the points arising out
of an examination of the deed of trust. It is dated March 14th,
1839 ; and by it Collier conveys to Smith six parcels of real estate, negroes, horses, mules, furniture, and other property, in trust,
to pay certain notes with interest, provided they are not paid by
said Collier, or some other person for him, before the -expiration
of eighteen months from the date of the deed ; if not paid by that
time, Smith is to sell the property at auction for ready money.
By the deed, Collier is to keep and retain the land and personal
property in his own possession until the expiration of said eighteen
months.
The deed is made to secure the paymert of twelve notes,
amounting to a trifle over $ 6,000. The i alue of the property
conveyed, according to the testimony of Smith, is $ 10,366.
Such an amount of property conveyed to secure, not all, but a
portion, of Collier's creditors, without any stipulations for a release, indicates fraud in regard to other creditors ; more especially
as there is no proof of the validity of the debts. By the laws of
Tennessee, every gift, &c., made with the intent to delay or defraud creditors of their just and lawful actions, suits, debts, &c.,
'are wholly and utterly void, except as against the person making
the same. Act of 1801, ch. 25, § 2.
Again ; the deed of trust had matured before the second levy
of the plaintiff's execution, and the property remained in the hands
of the debtor ; that is, the tristee had not taken possession of it
at the time limited for the payment of the money. There was no
proof that the trust was bond fide. The legal presumption upon
this state of facts is, that the trust iz fraudulent and void as to creditors, and the onus lies on thetrustee to prove the contrary, and to
prov e the validity of the debts.
Possession remaining with the vendor, after an absolute sale, or
with the grantor or mortgagor in deeds of trust and mortgage, after

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

7

Knox et al. r. Smith et al.

the time when the debt secured by the latter should be paid, is
primafacie evidence of fraud ; but the presumption of fraud may
be repelled by proof of fairness in the transaction, and that the instruments were executed
440.for an adequate consideration. Maney v. Killough, 7 Yerger,
The marshal, therefore, had a right to levy on the slaves as the
property of the debtor. The property had been levied on by the
marshal, on the first execution, and a bond taken before the trust
matured, and the bond was forfeited. But that did not prevent the
trustee from taking possession of the negroes after the bond was
forfeited; because a forfeiture of 'the bond released the property
from all lien or liability on account of the levy, and it again became
a part of the debtor's general property, and might have deen taken
by the trustee, without legal hindrance, so far as the first levy was
concerned.
Where an execution is levied, and bond taken for the delivery
of the property on the day of sale, the lien of the execution continues until the bond is forfeited. It is then discharged, and the
property is subject to the claims of other creditors. Malone r.
Abbott, 8 Humphrey, 532.
The levy of the marshal was therefore valid as against the trust,
which, for want of proof to the contrary, was fraudulent. This
levy vested the title in the marshal for the benefit of the plaintiffs,
to pay their debt by execution ; it was a lien created by law, which
could not be enforced at law, because the marshal was forcibly prevented by the interference of the State tribunals, called into existence by the defendants. Their only remedy was in equity to enforce their lien, to prevent multiplicity of suits, conflicts of jurisdiction, and to inquire into the fraudulent conveyance by the deed
of
trust.
. A
judgment creditor, having a lien on personal property,
has a
right to come into chancery to remove obstacles thrown in the
way of the due execution of his process by a levy and seizure of
the property by-a junior judgment creditor. Parrish v. Saunders
et al., 3 Humphrey, 431. This is an analogous case.
The courts of Tennessee have decided, that a suit in equity can
be brought for slaves, from the peculiar nature of the property.
Loftin v. Espy. 4 Yerger, 84.
q fortiori, to enforce a lien upon
them.
Lastly ; the State court had no authority to enjoin an execution
issuing from a court of the United States. McKim v. Voorhies, 7
Cranch, 279 ; 3 Story on the Constitution, 625, §§ 1751, 1752 ;
United States v. Wilson, 8 Wheat. 253 ; I Kent's Comm. 409.
It is true that the .national courts have no authority (in cases not
within the appellate jurisdiction of the United States) to issue injunctions to judgments in the State courts ; or in any other manner
to interfere with their jurisdiction or proceedings. 3 Story on the

we

SUPREMkE COURT.
Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

Constitution, 626, § 1753 ; Diggs et al. v. Wolcott, 4 Cranch,
179. But the federal court had complete jurisdiction in this case,
by injunction, to prevent the sale of the property levied upon by
execution from its court. Parker v.*The Judges of the Circuit
Court of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 561. And as the State and federal courts had concurrent jurisdiction (Act of September 24th,
1789, § 11 ; I Lit. & Brown's ed. 78) of the action brought at law,
and the suit in equity which arose out of it, the federal court having first acquired jurisdiction, the same cannot afterwards be taken
from it by the State courts. Under such circumstances, the aid of
the United States court is not an irregular interference with the
proceedings of the State tribunal.
If the State courts have jurisdiction to enjoin the marshal from
selling specific property in possession of the defendant, they may
enjoin for all his property, or for any number of adverse claimants;
and thus, in effect, entirely defeat the plaintiff's execution. At the
same lime, an injurious conflict of jurisdiction would be produced,
inconsistent with the harmony which ought to exist between the
State and federal jurisdictions. "Where the-jurisdiction of the
federal courts has once attached, no subsequent change in the relation or condition of the parties will oust the jurisdiction. The
strongest considerations of utility and convenience require that, the
jrisdiction being once vested, the action of the court shall not be
limited, but that it should proceed to make a final disposition of the
subject." United States v. Myers. et al., 2 Brockenbrough's
Rep. 516.
JMr. .Milton Brown, for the appellees.
The principal and leading question in this case arises on the demurrer to the bill , for if this be adjudged for the appellees, there
is an end of the case.
The bill, if its allegations be true, states a case, of clear and unembarrassed remedy at law. When analyzed, it amounts to this:That complainants had recovered a judgment at law, on which execution issued, and had been levied by the marshal of West Tennessee, on seventeen negroes and four mules, the property of Collier, one of the debtors in the execution, for the forthcoming of
which, on the day of sale, a delivery bond had been .taken, with
sureties. .That one" Peyton Smith had applied to the Circuit Court
of the Tlnited States, from which the execution had issued, for an
injunction to restrain the sale of said negroes ; which application,
however, was refused by the cotjrt. That afterwards, the property
not having been delivered on the day of sale, the bond was forfeited ; and on this judgment of forfeiture another execution issued
against the defendants in the original judgment, and, also the sureties in the furfeited delivery bend ; on which last execution another
levy was made,'and another del very bond, with new surety, taken.

JANUJARY TERM, 1846.

309

Knox et a]. v. Smith .ot al.

The bill then adds :-" Upon this last execution the marshal made
the following ren:
"-"
The property executed, delivered according to bond, and then arrested from me by the sheriff of Tipton, under order of the Chancery Court at Brownsville, 5th
December, 1840."
The next two paragraphs then disclose the points on which the
supposed equity of the bill is made to rest. They moaas follows
"And your orators further show, -that the said Peyton Smithy
although your honor refused to grant an injunction restraining the
sale of said negroes levied upon, has, by some means or other,
procured from the State courts of the State of Te.nessee a process of injunctioni or some other process, enjoining the, sale of
said negroes and property levied upon by virtue of the executions
issuing from your honorable court, and has procured- one Josiah
Home, the sheriff of Tipton county, a citizen of the State of
Tennessee, to arrest and take possession of said negroes from the
custody of the marshal of this court ; and the said Josiah Home
has still possession of'said property so levied upon as aforesaid,
and refuses to deliver the same to the marshal of the Western ]District, to be sold according to law.
"Your orators further show, that said negroes and mules were
the property of said Probert P. Collier, and liable to be sold for
the debt due to your orators, and that the State courcs had no right,
power, or jurisdiction to enjoin the process issued from this honorable court ; and your orators believe, and so charge, that the
said Collier and the securities upon said delivery bond combined
and confederated with said Peyton Smith to prevent the sale of
the property levied upon, and so defeat the execution of your orators ; and your orators have now no adequate and complete remedy at law."
On mese vague*uncertainties and allegations, meaning nothing
and amounting to nothing, the debtors in the r;ginal judgment, the
sureties to both the delivery bonds, and Peyton Smith and the
sheriff of Tipton, are all made defendants. And it is only remarkable, that in this wholesale business, the chancellor of West
Tennessee was not included.
The prayer of the*bill for specific relief is, - 1. That the negroes" be sold to pay~the judgment due to your orators." 2.
" That said defendants be jointly and severally bound personally
to pay said judgment and interest to your orators." And lastly,
"That said negroes be forthcoming, to abide the decree of this
honorable court." An injunction was.prayed for, but not granted.
To this bill the defendants severally demurred. The demurrers
were overruled by the court below, and the defendants required to
answer. And now comes up the question, whether there is suflicient equity in the bill, and stated with sufficient legal certainty, to
authorize a decree to be made on it.

310

SUPREME COURT.
Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

And first, as to the defendant Peyton Smith, against whom there
is equity, if against any one. The point is, the improper suing
out of process and arresting the property from the possession of
the marshal.
If it be the design of the bill to invoke the chancery powers of
the court, to control or decide any real or supposed conflict between the federal and State judiciaries, the exercise of such a
power would be alike unwarranted and dangerous.
But this is probably not the object of the bill. It proceeds on
the ground that the process was wholly and absolutely void. What
the process was, whether an injunction or a final process of execution, either in law or chancery, is not stated. The vague and
unmeaning allegation is, that it was "a process of injunction, or
some other process."
Nor is it stated on what this very uncertain process was sued
out, or on what it was founded; whetiler on a final decree in
chancery, on a final judgment at law, or on an application for an injunction, does not appear with any degree of legal certainty. The
allegations are, that said Peyton Smith, "1by some means or other,"
"1procured from the State courts of the State of Tennessee a
process of injunction, or some other process," by which the sale
of the slaves by the marshal had been prevented ; and that the
State courts "had no' right, power, or jurisdiction" to issue this
process.
Now, if these allegations be true, the process. whatever it might
be, was absolutely void, and all actin - under it trespassers.
The marshal should have paid no attention to it; and if the property was taken without his consent, an action of trespass or trover,
in his name, by virtue of his levy, was the plain remedy. If the
process in the hands of the marshal was, as is here alleged, wrongfully and unlawfully obstructed or interfered with, it certainly furnishes no ground on which to invoke the chancery powers of the
court. The case would be much nearer the province of a grand
jury than the conscience of a chancellor.
In this it is not designed to intimate, that, in point of fact, there
was any unlawful or improper interference rith the rights of the
marshal or the complainants. Nor is it designed to intimate that
there was any conflict of jurisdiction between the federal and State
courts. It is believed there was no such interference, and no such
conflict. But for the purposes of the argument on the demurrer,
the facts are taken as stated in the bill.
The attempt in the appellant's brief to sustain the bill, on the
ground of its being filed to set aside a fraudulent deed of trust, finds
no support in the allegations or frame of the bill itself. The case
made in the bill is the alleged improper issuance of the process
from the State courts, and the seizure of the property. On what
this process issued, as already clearly shown, is not stated. There

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

311

Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

is nothing on the face of the bill to show, with sufficient legal certainty, that the existence of a deed of trust is the subject of complaint.
"Every material fact to which the plaintiff means to offer evidence ought to be distinctly stated in the premises." Story's Eq.
Pl. § 26. If fraud is charged, it must be distinctly"and clearly
set out. Story's Eq. P1. § 251.
The only reference in the bill to a deed of trust is a mere. historical reference in the statement that Peyton Smith had applied
to the Circuit Court of the United States for an injunction, which
was refused. It is not charged that any other or further use was
ever made or intended to be made of it.
Before the issuance of the "process" from the State courts,
of which complaint is made, ,there had, as appears on the face of
the bill, been an entire change in the nature of the question. The
delivery bond had been forfeited, a new statutory judgment 'ad
attached, a new execution had issued, embracing not merely the
former defendants, but the sureties in the delivery bond also, a new
levy under this execution had been made, &c., &c. This "1process, therefore, which is spoken of in the bill in such remarkably
indefite terms, might have been founded on an intervening judgment or decre6 in chancery, taking priority of lien, as happened
in the case of Brown v. Clarke, decided at the present term of this
court. In that case it was decided that, on the f6rfeiture of a delivery bond, the first lien was extinguished and a new lien attached,
and that intervening liens might take precedence. May this not
have been the case in this very instance, so far as any thing appears
on the face of the bill ? In fact, the language of the bill favors
this conclusion. It says that, "by some means or other," process
was sued out. Does this not leave it wholly uncertain whether
this proeess was obtained by "Iomeans" of a deed of trust, or by
that "Other" means referred to? But again; the bill says there
was sued out" a process of injunction, or some other process,"
thus leaving it entirely uncertain what that " other process" was.
Might not that "other process" here referred to have been
founded on an intervening judgment or decree, creating a prior
lien, and entitled to prior satisfaction ?
These considerations are deemed sufficient to show that the
reference to the deed of trust in the bill is too indefinite and uncertain to require an answer, or form an issue, and can furnish no
possible ground for equitable interference. A statement of facts,
to form the. basis of relief, must not be vague and uncertain. And
if, as in this case, they are stated in the alternative, or are otherwise left doubtful, it is such uncertainty as will be bad on general
demurrer. Story's Eq. P1. §§ 243-249 and 450.
Upon what ground the sureties in the delivery bonds have been
made parties it is hard to perceive. Complainants already hc

312

SUPREME COURT
Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

Judgments and executions aginst them on the forfeiture; what more
Id they want ? There is nothing in the bill against them, except
a general charge of combination and confederacy, which cannot be
a sufficient ground of jurisdiction ; and, if charged, need not be
answered. Story's Eq. P. §§ 29 and 856.
If the demurrers are sustained by the court, there is, of course,
an end of the case ; should they be overruled, another question
presents itself. Can the reference to a deed of trust, in the
answer, put that in issue which was not substantially relied on in
the bill ? That it cannot is clear. Gresley on Ev. 22 ; Story's
Eq. P. § 36, in note ; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Peters, 209 ; Harrison and others v. Nixon, 9 Peters, -503 ; Jackson v. Ashton,
1I Peters, 249. In this last case the court say, -"
It may
be proper to observe, that no admissions in an answer can, under any circumstances, lay the foundation for relief under any
specific head of equity, unless it be substantially set forth in the
bill."
But there is another reason why the statement in the answers, in
the present condition of the case, cannot be regarded. The real
persons interested in the deed of trust are not made parties ; and
this may also be regarded as another proof that the bill is framed
with a view to no such end. Peyton Smith is a mere trustee,
without interest ; his answer cannot prejudice the rights of the cestuis que trust ; and, though a party of record, is a competent witness. Gresle'y on Ev. 242, 258. The true rule seems to be,
that the cestuis que trust should be made-parties in all cases where
the "existence or enjoyment of the property is affected by the
prayer of the suit." Calvert on Parties, 212. To make, therefore, the admissions or statements in the answers of those having
no ihterest in the trust work an injury to those who hold the real
interest, would be to violate not merely the established rules of
pleading and evidence, but the mbst obvious rules of substantial
justice.
While it is believed that this is the law of the case, and that no
decree, on several grounds, can be made touching the rights of the
cedtuis que trust, it is, with equal confidence, believed that there is
not the slightest ground to infer fraud in the execution of the trust.
It was designed to give a preference to Collier's own creditors
over debts for which he was a mere security. This. he had a lawful right to do. The debts designed to be preferred amounted to
over seven thousand dollars, besides interest. The highest estimate
placed on all the property is $ 10,366. But this is palpably an overestimate, as is proved by the fact that one witness says the seventeen negroes were worth $ 7,650 ; while another witness thinks they
were worth seven or eight thousand dollars. And yet the face of
the bill shows, that the same negroes were valued on each levy by
the marshal when inserted in the delivery bonds; the first time

JANUARY

TERM, "1846.

313

Knox e't al. v. Smith et al.

valued at $4,100, and the last time at $4,250. This proves That
the estimate attempted to be placed on the property, for the purposes of this cause, is entirely too high. It is be'eved that at. no
time would it have sold under the hammer for enough to meet the
debts named in the deed of trust.
One other suggestion will close this brief. The"question of the
malidity tif this deed has been before the Chancery Court of the
-State, where the parties in interest have been properly represented,
and the result has been a decision in favor of the rights of the cestuis qua trust ; and it is- fair to suppose that the trust, under the
direction of the court, has, before now, been wound up, and justice
done.
sMr. Brinley, in reply.
1. It is insisted by the counsel for the appellees, that there was, a
remedy at law; that if the property was taken frond the marshal
without his consent, he had a remedy by action of trespass or
trover. This objection is anticipated and met in the opening argu-.
ment for the appellants.
2. It is contended that there were too many persons riiade defendants by the bill. Who are they ? Peyton Smith, the person
ciaiming theproperty under an alleged fraudulent deed of trust;
Collier, the assignor in said deed. The formier should be included
beyond a doubt; so, too, the latter. Where the assignment is not
absolute and unconditional, or there are remaining rights or liabilities of the assignor, which may be affected by the decree, there
the assignor is not only a proper, but a necessary, party. St y
on Eq. Pl. § 153. Eckford, being one of the judgment debtors,
was of course a party. Bryan, Feezer, and'Smith were securities
on the delivery bond given on the levy of the first execution; they,
together with Boon, were securities on the delivery bond given on
the levy of the second execution. They-were all mdde parties to
the bill, on the principle that those in interest must be brought into
court. By the statutes of Tennessee, as sureties to a forfeited
deliveiy bond, their property might be levied off, and they had a
direct interest in the subject. Besides, they were distintly charged
in the bill as confederating with Collier and Smith to prevent the
sale of the property levied on. Home was the sheriff who arrested
the property from thd marshal, and he was therefore made a party:
This "wholesale business" was but a compliance with the rules
of equity applicable to the circumstances.
1 3. It is then contended that there are not parties enough ; that
the cestuis que trust are not included.
It may be true, as a general rule, that all persons interested in
the subject of a suit should be made parties as plaintiffs or defeadants, in order that a complete decree may be made; but there are
exceptions. Thus, residuary legatees are interested in the object
AA.
40
VOL. IV.

314

SUPREME COURT.
Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

of a suit by a creditor against the executor, to establish his debt or
claim against the estate; for the establishment of such debt or claim
goes pro tanto in direct diminution of their interest in the residue.
Yet they are never required to be parties. Calvert on Parties,
ch. 1, p. 5.
So trustees for the payment of debts and legacies may sustain a
suit either- as plaintiffs or defendants, touching the trust estate,
without bringing the creditors or legatees before the court as parties. Fenn v. Craig, 3 Younge and Collier, 216.
In case of assignment for benefit of creditors, the assignees may
file a bill relative to the 'trust estate, without making & creditors
parties ; for the assignees are the proper representatives of all of
them. In a suit to set aside an assignment as fraudulent, it is sufficient to make the fraudulent assignors and assignees parties.
Wakeman t. Grover, 4 Paige, 23.
In the present case, Smith, the trusteei must be considered as
the representative of the interest of all parties. It was not necessary to make the cestuis que trust parties ; th&complainants knew
not who they were. .N'emo tenetur di-inare.
4. The bill is said to be vague and unmeaning, because it
states that "a process of injunction, or some other process," enjoining the sale, proceeded from the State court. The bill states,
in the words of the return on the fi. fa., that the property was arres*ted from the marshal "under order of the Chancery Court at
Brownsville." It then states, in the next paragraph, in reference
to this oider and arrest, that it was by "an injunction or some
other process." If the language of the return had been used in
that paragraph, it would -have been sufficiently certain'; the alternative phrase employed is not less so.
The sections in Story, on Eq. P1;, referred to by the counsel
for the appellees, are to the point, that when the allegations in a
bill are extremely vague, loose, and uncertain, or where the title of a
plaintiff is stated in the alternative, so that the respondent does not
know what he is to answer, they are not sufficient.
A general charge or statement of the matters of fact is sufficient,
and it is not necessary to :charge minutely all the circumstances
which may conduce to a general charge. Story on Eq. P1.
§ 2Here
q. the general charge is, that the sale on the execution was
enjoined by process from the State court, and the property arrested
from the marshal. That is minute enough, particularly as the precise character and appellation of the process were known to Smith,
who obtained it. Moreover, a charge in general terms, where it is
the point on which the merits 6f the cause turn, and does not come
in 'collaterally and incidentally, will warrant the production of
evidence to particular facts. 2 Atk. 333, 337.
A plaintiff is not bound to set forth all the minute facts which go

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

315

Knox et al. v. Smith et al.

to constitute a charge ; and where the title to relief will be precisely the same in each case, the plaintiff may aver facts of a different naiure, which will equally support his application. Story
on Eq. Pl. §§ 252, 254.
The cases cited by the counsel for the appellees, from the reports
of this court, are to the undisputed point, that a party is not allowed
to state one case in a bill or answer, and make out a different one
by proof. No such attempt is made in this case ; the allegation
in substance is,. that an injunction, or a process of like nature
issued ; that is put in issue. The proof, as obtained from the admissions in the answers of Smith, Collier, Feezer, Bryan, Home,
and Boone, is within the allegation, that an injunction issued. In
the case of Jackson v. Ashton, 11 Peters, 249, the court said,
"1The answer of the defendant is broader than the allegations in
the bill ; and, although such parts of the answer as are not responsive to the bill are not evidence for the defendant, yet the counsel
on both sides have considered the facts disclosed as belonging to
the case; and if the facts in the answer,-not responsive to the bill,
are relied on by the complainants' counsel as admissions by the
defendant, he is entitled, thus far, to their full benefit."
So here the counsel, throughout the progress of the cause, have
considered the fact that an injunction issued as belonging to the
case. It was disclosed (admit it for the argument) in the answer
of Smith, though not substantially set forth in the bill ; -yet the
complainants shall have the full benefit of the admission.
The words, "1or other process," may be considered surplusage.
5. It is said there is nothing on the face of the bill to show
that the deed of trust was the subject of complaint.
The bill expressly states, that Smith claimed the property unuter
a fraudulent deed of trust, and that he pursued that claim by the
intervention of the State court. An illegal proceeding, based on a
fraudulent conveyance, is the charge. The reference to the deed
of trust is said to be in the statement. There it ought to be ; for
the statement constitutes the real substance of a bill. Story on Eq.

P]. § 27.
6. The "Cprocess" from the State court, it is argued, may
have been founded on an intervening judgment, creating a prior lien,
&c. Such a supposition is wholly at war with the true state of the
case, as disclosed by the allegations in the bill, and the admissions
in the answers.
7. The counsel for the appellees states, that " the highest estimate placed on all the property is $ 10.366 " ; and therefore there
is no reason for inferring fraud. Fraud may not be conclusively
established from that circumstance only ; but it is one of a number
of circumstances which unit~dly aford strong presumption of fraud
in regard to creditors.
8. The closing emark of the counsel for the appellees, that

316

SUPREME COURT.
Knox et il.'v. Smith et aL

the validity of the deed of trust has been established by the court
of chancery of the State, is, as it purports to be, a "suggestion,"
and which cannot affect the decision ofthis court.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for the
District of West Tennessee.
In their bill the complainants state that they recovered a judgment in the Circuit Court against Thomas Eckford and Probert P.
Collier, for the sum of three thousand four hundred and sixty-two
dollars and twenty cents, &c. ; and that execution was issued the
24th of April, 1840, which, about the 18th of July ensuing, was
levied on seventeen negroes and four mules ; and that the n: rshal took a delivery bond and security, under the statute of Tennessee.
That one Peyton Smith, a citizen of the State of Tennessee,
pretending to claim said property levied upon by virtue of some
fraudulent.deed of trust executed by Probert P. Collier to him,
filed a bill,'vhich'prayed for an injunction, in the Circuit Court, and
which was refused. That the delivery bond being forfeited, an
execution was issued on it, against the principals and sureties, which
was levied upon the same negroes and mules ; upon which execa.
tior. the marshal returned that "1the property levied on had heen
taken from him by the sheriff of Tipton county, under the order
of the Chancery Court, at Brownsville, 5th December, 1840."
The bill alleges that the negroes and mules belonged to Collier, and
it prays that they may be sold in satisfaction of the judgment.
There is no allegation in this bill which authorizes a court of
equity to take jurisdiction of the case. Fraud is not charged, nor is
any thing stated going to show that the remedy at law is not complete. It is stated that Peyton Smith, pretending to claim the property, after the first levy, by virtue of some fraudulent deed of tYust
executed to him by Collier, applied to the Circuit Court, by bill, for
an injunction, which was refused. The present bill was not filed by
the complainants until after execution was issuea on the delivery
bond and levied, and the properly, was taken, as returned by the
marshal, under State process.
Now, if the object had been to set aside the deed of trust, as
fraudulent, the fraud, with the fact- connected with it, should have
been alleged in the bill. Or if the negroes and mules were about
to be taken out of the State, and beyond the jurisdiction of the
court, unless restrained by an injunction, such fact should have
been stated. But the principal allegation in the bill is, that under
the State authority the sheriff had no right to take the negroes. &c.
If this be admitted, it does not folloiv that the remedy of the complainants is in a court of equity. On the contrary, from the showing in the bill, there is a plain remedy at law. The marshal might

.TANUARV

TERM, 1846.

317

Cookendorfer v. Preston.

have brought trespass against the sheriff; or applied to the Circuit

Court for an attachment.
Out of the answer which sets up the deed of trust, the complainants 'insist they are entitled to relief. Now no relief can be given
by a court of equity, except a proper case be made in the bill.
The inquiry is not only whether the defendant, from his own showing or by proof, has acted unjustly and inequitably, but also,
whether the complainants, by their allegations and proof, have
shown that they are entitled to relief.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.

THomAs COOENDORPER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ANTHONY PRESTON,
DESzNDANT IN ERROR.
In an action brought by the indorsee against the indorser of a promissory note, which
had been deposited in a bank for collection, the notary public who made the protest is a competent witness, although he has given bond to the bank for the fiithfil performance of his du%.
He is also cozopetent to testi r as to his usual practice.
The cases reported in 9 Wheaton, 68, 11 Wheaton, 430, and 1 Petirs, 25, reviewed.
At the time when these decisions were made, it was the usage in the city of Washington to allow four days of grace upon notes discounted by banka, and aio upon
notes merely deposited for collection.
But since then the usage has been changed as to notes deposited for collection, and
been made to conform to the general law merchant, which allows only three days

of grace.

Although evideneL is not admissible to show that usage was in fact different fiom
that which it was established to be by judicial decisl'ne, yet it may be shown
that it-was subsequently changed.

THis case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of
the United States for- the District of Columbia, in and for the
county of Washington.
The case was this.
On the 17th of May, 1839, E. T. Arguelles gave the following
note.
$300.
Washington, May 17, 1839.
On the first day of February next, I promise to pay to Thomas
Cookendorfer, or order, three hundred dollars, for value received,
negotiable and payable at the Bank of Washington.
(Signed,)
E. T. ARGUELLES.
(Indorsed,)
Taos. COOKENDORFER.
ANTHONY PRESTON.

This note was deposited in the Bank of Washington, for collection. Not being paid at maturity by the drawer, it was protested

