JANUARY TERM, 1846.

155

Stockton et al. v. Bishop,

In conclusion, then, as by several cases in England the allowance of a repleader in courts of error seems to have gone into disuse in modern times, and as the practice in 'common law cases in
this tribunal, though otherwise in some of the States, has usually
been, not to direct either amendments or repleaders in cases like
these, but to reverse the judgment and remand the cause to the
court below for further proceedings there, we shall conform to that
practice in the present instance.
Let the judgment below be reversed, and the case remanded for
further proceedings.

LucIus W.

STOCKTON

AND DANIEL MOORE,

PLrINIFs

IN ERROR, V0.

HARRIET BIsEoP.
Where a count in a declaration is defective on account of dates being left blank,
but the party has pleaded and gone to trial, the presumption is that the proof

supplied the defect.
In an action on the case for injury sustained by the oversetting of a stagecoach, although the declaration does notset out the payment of any passage money, nor any
promise or undertaking on the part of the defendants to carry the plaintiff safely,
yet if it states that the plaintiff became6 a passenger for certain rewards to the defendants, and thereupon it was their duty to use due and proper care that the
plaintiff should be safely conveyed, and if the breach was well assigned, and
the cause went on to plea, issue, trial, and verdict, the defect in the declaration
is cured by the 32d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
The "right of the cause and matter in law" being with the plaintiff in the court
below, the judgmeiit of that court must be affirmed.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for West Pennsylvania.
There was no bill of exceptions signed by the judge, and the
record presented the following appearance.
Among the rolls, records, and judicial proceedings of the Circuit
Court of the United States, in and for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, in the Third Circuit, may be found the following
words and figures, to wit Copy of Docket Entries.
McCandless, and
Harriet Bishop, a citizen of the
McClure & Biddle.
State of Ohio,
|
VS.
18
Darragh, Loomis,
Lucius W. Stockton and Dan- 1
Mahon & Washington.
iel Moore, citizens of Penn. J
Summons case, exit September 17th, 1842.
1842, November 4th, returned. Served by leaving a copy at
the dwelling-hous6 of. D. Moore, November 1st, 1842, and personally on L. W. Stockton, November 2d, 1842.

-

156

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

1843, Jan. 12th. Narr. filed.
1843, February 6th. On motion of Mr. Dirragh, rule for security for costs.
1843, February 7th. Rule for security for costs returned,
"Served on Mr. McClure, February 7th, 1843."
1843, April 5th. Consent of attorney for defendants, that a
commission issue forthwith to take testimony on part of plaintiff,
and declension to file cross interrogatories. (See .paper filed.)
1843, April 5th. Interrogatories on part of plaintiff filed, and
commission issued to Albert G. Westgate, Esq., of McConnellsville,'Morgan county, Ohio'commissioner named by plaintiff.
1843, April 10th. Stipulation of John Sarber, as security for
costs, filed
1843, April 18th. Commission, with depositions taken before
Albert G. Westgate, Esq., Teturned and filed.
1843, May 10th. Plea of defendants ffld.
1843, May 10th. Agreement of attorneys filed.
1843, May 17th. Continued.
1843, October 5th. Subpcena on part of defendants to Dr.
'Kennedy.
1843, October 28th. Subpcena on part of defendants to Dr.
Campbell.
1843, October 30th and 31st. Subpoenas on part of plaintiff
to Dr. A. H. Campbell, James Corbin, James Smith, James
Snyder, and Daniel Brown.
1843, November 20th. Above subpoenas returned.
1843, November 22d, 23d, 24th, and 25th. Tried by jury,
and, 25th,'verdict for plaintiff for six thousand five hundred dollars
($6,500), with costs of 'uit.
1843, November 24th. Defendants' points filed.
1843, Nowmber 25th. Motion in arrest of judgment, and for
a new trial.
1843, November 27th. Plaintiff's bill of costs filed.
1843, November 30tb. Reasons in arrest of judgment, and for
a new trial, filed.
1843, December Ist. Argument for a new trial commenced.
1843, December 7th. Argument of motion for new trial continued and concluded by Messrs. Mahon and Loomis, for defendants, and Mr. Biddle, contra, for plaintiff.
Sam6 day. Affidavit of Jacob Murphy filed.
Same day. After argument, defendants' points overruled, and
judgment on the verdict ; stay of execution for thirty days.
Same day. Plaintiff's counsel desired the'sanction of the court
to the following amendment to the verdict, objected to by defendants' counsel. Objections filed by order of the court ; after argument, objections overruled, and verdict amended as follows, viz.: "An4 now, to wit, December 7th, 1843, inasmuch as the plain-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

157

Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

tiff, on the trial of the cause, offered proof of but a single disaster,
and its injurious consequences, as set forth in the second count of
the declaration, the verdict is amended accordingly, and judgment
entered for 'the plaintiff" on'the said second count, and for the defendants on the first count."
1843, December 15th. Defendants enter into a bond, which is
approved by Judge Irwin, in the sum of thirteen thousand dollars,
and sue out their writ of error.
1843, December 15th. Citation issued.
1843, December 15th. Writ of error allowed and issued.
1843, December 16tfi. Citation returned ; served by copy on
R. Biddle, Esq., attorney of defendants.
Copy of Declaration.
In the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Pennsylvania.
Lucius W. Stockton, a citizen of Pennsylvania, and Daniel
Moore, also a citizen of Pennsylvania, were summoned to answer
Harriet Bishop, a citizen of Ohio, in an action on the case.
Whereupon the said Harriet Bishop, by McCaiidless & McClure,
her attorneys, complains, for that whereas the said defendants, before and after the time of committing the grievance hereinafter
mentioned, were owners and proprietors of a certain line of stagecoaches for the carriage and conveyance of passengers from Baltimore, in the State of Marylandto Wheeling, in the State.of
Virginia, for hire and reward, to the said defendants in that behalf;
and the said defendants being such owners and proprietors of the
said line of coaches so as aforesaid, thereupon heretofore, to wit,
at the special instance and request of tie said defendants, became
and was a passenger in the said line of coaches, to be safely and
securely carried and conveyed thereby on a certain journey, to
wit, from Baltimore aforesaid to Wheeling aforesaid, for a certain
fare and reward to the said defendants in that behalf; and the said
defendants then and there received the said plaintiff as such passenger as aforesaid ; and thereupon it then and there became and
was the duty of the said defendants to use due and proper care
that the said plaintiff should'be carefully and securely carfried and
conveyed by and upon the said line of coaches on the said journey ; yet the said defendants, not regarding their duty in that behalf, did not use due and proper care that the said plaintiff should
be safely and securely carried and conveyed by and upon the
said stagecoach, on the said journey from Baltimore aforesaid to
Wheeling aforesaid, to the damage of the plaintiff twenty thousand
dollars.
And whereas also, heretofore, to wit, on the day and year aforesaid, at Baltimore aforesaid, the said plaintiff, at the said special instance and request of thd said defendants, became and was a pasVOL. IV.

Iq

158

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

senger by a certain other coach, to be safely and securely carried
and conveyed thereby on a certain journey, to wit, from Baltimore
aforesaid to WII'eeling aforesaid, for certain rewards to the said defendants in that behalf ; and thereupon it then and there became
and was the duty of the said defendants to use due and proper
care that the said plaintiff should be safely and securely carried
and conveyed, by the said line of coaches, on the said journey
from Baltimore aforesaid to Wheeling aforesaid ; yet the said defendants, not regarding their duty in this behalf, did not use due
and proper care that the said plaintiff should be safely and secure.ly carried and conveyed, by the last mentioned coach, on the said
journey from Baltimore aforesaid to Wheeling aforesaid ; but
wholly neglected to do so, and by reason wnereof one of the legs,
one of the arms, two of the ribs, [and] the collar-bone of the said
plaintiff then and there became and were fractured and broken,
and the said plaintiff was then and there otherwise greatly bruised,
wounded, and injured ; and also by means of the premises the said
plaintiff became and was sick, sore, lame, and disordered, and so
remained and continued for a long space of time, to wit, hitherto ;
during all which time the said plaintiff suffered, and underwent,
and endured great pain, and was hindered and prevented from
transacting and attending her necessary and lawful affairs and business by her during all that time to be performed and transacted,
and lost and was deprived of divers great gains, and advantages,
and profits, which she might, and otherwise would, have derived
and acquired from the same ;.and thereby also the said plaintiff
was forced and obliged to pay, lay-out, and expend divers other
large sums of money, amounting, in the whole, to the sum of one
thousand dollars, in and about the endeavouring to be cured of the
last mentioned bruises, fractures, and injuries received as last aforesaid, to the damage of the said plaintiff twenty thousand dollars;
and therefore she brings suit.
MiCANDLESS & McCLURE,
Plaintiff's attorneys.
(Then followed a summons, and a commission to take testimony,
under which several witnesses were examined, and the record proceeded.)
Copy of
Plea.
Circuit Court of the United
States for.the Western District of Pennsylvania.
The defendants, by Cornelius Darragh, their attorney, come
and defend the wrong, when, &c., and for plea say, that they are
-not guilty of the matters and, things alleged against them in the
plaintiff's declaration, and of this they put themselves upon the
country.
Nay 10, 1843.
C. DARRAGH, for defendants.
BisHoP v. STOCKTON ET AL.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

159

Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

Copy of Defendants' Points.
BiSHOP v. STOCKTON & MOORE.
The counsel of the defendants respectfully request the court to
instruct the jury as follows :1st. That the proprietors of a stagecoach do not warrant the
safety of their passengers, in the character of common carriers ;
and that they are not responsible for mere accidents to the persons
of passengers, but only for the want of due care. , (Given.)
2d. That they do not warrant the safety of passengers ; their
undertaking, as to them, goes no further than this ; that as far as.
human wisdom and vigilance can go, they will provide for the safe
conveyance of their passengers. (Given.)
3d. That if the jury believe that the accident in this case was
caused by the intoxication of James Corbin the driver, but that he
was not only not in the habit of drinking intoxicating liquors, but
was intoxicated, on this occasion, for the first time in his life ; that,
in this event, the defendants will have exercised due care in the
selection and employment of James Corbin as a drivee, and will
not be liable in this action. (Refused.)
4th. That if the jury believe that the accident was caused by
the intoxication of James Corbin, yet if they also believe hat a
long course of previous habitual good conduct through a series of
years, from his boyhood to the time of this accident in question,
had satisfied the defendants, the tavern-keepers with whom James
Corbin boarded, and his associates, that he was a temperate and
an abstemious man, that then the defendants, as far as ordinary
wisdom and vigilance could go, did provide for the safety of their
passengers in the selection and employment of James Corbin as a
driver, and that they are not liable id this action. (Refused.)
5th. If the jury believe that, at the time of the accident, the
coach was on the upper and safer portion of the road, and that the
accident occurred in the effort of Corbin to take up his horses
after descending the hill, that the defendants are not liable in this
adtion. (Refused.)
6th. That although the jury may believe that Corbin was, at
the time of the accident, partially intoxicated, still, if he was not
so much intoxicated as to be incapable of the management and
control of this team, and the accident did not arise from that cause,
but from the state of the weather, obscurity of the night, and the
condition of the roads, that the defendants are not liable in this action ; especially if the jury believe that the said Corbin had heretofore sustained an unexceptionable character for skill, care, and
sobriety. (Refused.)
7th. If the jury believe that the driver was a person of competent skill, of good' habits, and in every respect qualified and suitably prepared for the business in which he was engaged, plaintiff
HARRIET

160

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

cannot recover, unless they were clearly satisfied that, on this occasion, the disaster was attributable to the fault of the driver, and
not to the darkness of the night, or other accidental cause, and that
said accident would not have occurred but for the fault of the
driver. (Given.)
.Defendants' Exceptions.
HARRIET Bisip

In the Circuit
Court of the United States.
The counsel for defendants respectfully except to the refusal of
the court to instruct the jury as prayed for on all the points presented by them, except the first, second, and seventh.
MAHON & WASHINGTON,
METCALF & LOOMIS,
Alttorneys frr defeiidants.
25th N'ovember, 1843.
V. .STOCKTON & MOORE.

Copy of Reasonsfor a Nlew Trial, and in .Arrestof Judgment.
v. STOCKTON & MooRE.
The counsel for defendants move the court for a new trial, for
the following reasons, viz. :1. The verdict is agai ist the weight of evidence.
2. It is rendered for vindictive damages.
3. It is not the result of the deliberate opinions of the jurors,
or of comparison of. their several opinions, but the amount was
fixed and determined by the average of different sums named by
the jurors.
They move in arrest of judgment, because,1. No sufficient cause of action is set forth in plaintiff's first
count of narr., and the verdict is general on both counts.
2. No sufficient caiise of action is set forth in either count;
there being no allegation that the amount charged for fare, or passage money, had in fact been paid by plaintiff.
,3. General errors.
MAHON & WASHINGTON,
Attorneys for defendants.
.November 27th, 1843.
HARRIET BisHo

Copy of Aqffidavit of Jacob lfurphy.
Personally appeared before me, a justice of the peace in and for
the county of Fayette, Jacob Murphy, who, being sworn, doth depose and say, that he was a juror in the Circuit Court of the United
[States] for the Western District of Pennsylvania, for November
term, 1843, and that he was one of the' panel who tried the case
of Harriet Bishop v. L. W. Stockton and Daniel Moore, for damages accruing from the upsetting of a stagecoach, and that the
method adopted by the jury by which they settled on the .amount

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

161

Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

of the verdict was this : it was agreed that each juror should mark
the sum he found, and that the total amount, divided by twelve,
should, without alteration, be the amount of the verdict ; in accordance with their agreeinent, each juryman put down the amount he
thought proper ; they then added the whole together, and divided
the amount by twelve, and the product was six thousand five hundred dollars, which was reported as the verdict of the jury.
JACOB MURPHY.
Sworn and subscribed before me, the 5th December, 1843.
CLEMENT WOOD, J. F.
The verdict as or4red to [be] entered by the Court.
And now, to wit, December 7th, 1843, inasmuch as the plaintiff, on the trial of the cause, offered proof of but a single disaster,
and its injurious consequences, as set forth in the second count of
the declaration, the verdict is amended accordingly, and judgment
entered for the plaintiff on the said second count, and for the defendants on the first count.
Copy of Defendants' Objections.
In the Circuit Court of the United States, Western District of
Pennsylvania.
HARRIET BISHOP v. L. W.

STOCKTON ET AL.

The counsel for the plaintiff having moved the court to make
the following entry of record in the cause, to wit : - " And now,
to wit, November, 1843, inasmuch as the plaintiff, on the trial of
the cause, ofrered proof of but a single disaster, and its injurious
consequences, as set forth in the second count of the declaration,
the verdict is amended accordingly, and judgment entered for the
plaintiff, on said second count, and for the defendant on the first
count."
The defendants, by their counsel, now, to wit, November 7th,
1843, appear in court, and object to the allowance of said motion
by the court, and to any permission by the court that such entry as
is above indicated should be made in the cause, and in support of
their objection assign the following causes, to wit : that the issue,
if any, joined by the pleadings between the parties, was upon the
whole declaration ; that the jury were sworn to try the issue, if any,
joined upon the whole declaration ; that the jury returned their verdict in writing in the following words : HARRIET BIsHOP v. STOCKTON, MOORE, & Co.

We, the jurors sworn and empanelled in this cause, do find for
the plaintiff six thousand five hundred dollars, with costs of suit, this
25th day of November, A. D. 1843.
Which said verdict wis received bh the court; and thereupon an
N*
21
VOL. Tv.

162

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

entry was made of record in the cause, in the following words, to
wit:cc HARRIET BisHoP v. STOCKTON & MOORE.
"Jury find for the plaintiff six thousand five hundred dollars, with
costs of suit."
That the verdict so found by the jury was found by them upon
the entire issue or issues, if any, between the parties, and upon the
whole declaration, embracing both the first and second counts
thereof; that said verdict is general ; that the testimony given in
the cause-was as applicable to the first as to the second count cf
the declaration ; that the defendants have as good a right to claim
that the verdict of the jury should be amended, by entering it upon
the first count of the declaration for the plaintiff, and judgment
thereon for the plaintiff, and judgment on the second count for the
defendants, as the plaintiff has to claim that the proposed. entry
should be made. That the jury having given a general verdict for
entire damages on both counts of thQ declaration, which verdict was
received by the court, and entered of record without objection from
the plaintiff, and the jury having separated, the court have not the
legal right, and if they possess the legal right, ought not, in the exercise of a sound discretion, to modify the verdict of the jury in
the manner proposed by the plaintiff's counsel ; which objections,
and reasons in support thereof, are respectfully submitted by the
defendants, to be filed and entered of record in the cause.
METCALF & LOOMIS,
MAHON & WASHINGTON,
.6ttorneysfor defendants.
United States, Western Districtof Pennsylvania, ss.:
I, Edward J. Roberts, clerk of the Circuit Court of the United
States in and for the Western District of Pennsylvania, do hereby
certify, that the foregoing is a full, true, and complete exemplification of the record in the case of Harriet Bishop, a citizen of the
State of Ohio, against Lucius W. Stockton and Daniel Moore,
citizens of Pennsylvania.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and affixed
the seal of the said court, at Pittsburg, this twentieth day
[L. s.]
of December, A. D. 1843, and in the sixty-eighth year
of the independenoe of the said United States.
E. J. ROBERTS, Clerk.
A writ of error, sued out on behalf of Stockton & Moore, brought
up the record in the form in Which it is stated above.
The case was argued by JXr. Bledsoe and JMr. Coxe for the plain.
tiffs in error, and ,Mr. Richard Biddle (in a printed argument), for
the defendant in error.'

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

163

Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

.Mr. Bledsowe for plaintiffs in error.
Perhaps no record ever came up to this court in such an imperfect state. There appears to be no issue, no venire, no jury empanelled or sworn, no verdict, except where it is incidentally mentioned, no bill of exceptions signed, no judgment of the court for a
specific sum. It is true, that there is a verdict spoken of in the
docket entries, but these are only to refresh the memory of the
clerk. 10 Ohio Rep. 200.
Nothing is a part of the record except the pleadings, or what is
referred to in the opinion of the court. 5 Peters, 254.
There is no regular judgment of the court for a specific sum.
How could an action of debt or a scire facias be maintained upon

such a record ? 5 Dane's Abr. 221 ; 1 Arkansas Rep. 346, 347 ;
2 Arkansas Rep. 390 , 1 Robinson's Practice, 690 ; 6 Randolph,
.30- 32 ; 4 Munford, 262 ; Yelverton, 107 ; 4 Leonard, 61 ; 1
Chitty's Plead. 356.
The declaration is radically defective. The first count was abandoned, and judgment entered on the second count. This must
therefore stand alone, and, taken by itself, it discloses no cause of
action. Two reasons exist for this. 1. There is nothing stated
from which an implied undertaking can be inferred to carry safely.
2. There is no such express undertaking averred.
1. In order to raise the implication, the fact must be averred,
that the other party were common carriers. This is necessary, as
a foundation foi the implied assumpsit. 1 Wendell, 272; 6 J. B.
Moore, 158 ; 2Chitty's Plead. 356, note. See also Story on Bailments, 374, 591.
The declaration was designed.to be in tort. It is not averred
that any reward was to be paid by the plaintiff, or that there was
any promise at all. Lawes on Pleading, under the head of "Promise."

.Mr. Biddle, for defendant in error.
Under the 40th Rule of Court, the following remarks are respectfully submitted on behalf of the defendant in error.
. No specification of errors having been filed, the points which
will be pressed are left to be inferred from what took place in the
court below.
First. As to the declaration. It may be alleged that the first
count is bad, and that the verdict, being general on both counts, is
thereby vitiated. The reply is :- 1. The count is not bad. It
provides for the event of no special damage being made out. It
would, at least, justify nominal damages. It alleges that the defendants were engaged in a duty to the public as carriers of passengers ;
that they undertook to carry the plaintiff safely, and failed to do so.
Further, it is to be remembered that there was no demurrer to
the count, and the objection therefore comes after verdict. Now it

164

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

is a familiar rule, that a cause of action defectively or inaccurately
set forth is cured by the verdict, because, to entitle the plaintiff to
recover, all circumstances necessary, in form or in substance, to
make out his cause of action, so imperfectly stated, must be proved
at the trial. (9 Wheat. 595 ; 1 Peters's C. C. R. 482.) But,
2. This inquiry is unnecessary, as the judgment is entered on the
second count. The recent case of Matthewson's Administrators
v. Grant's Administrator, in this court (2 Howard, 263), renders
.superfluous any argument as to the right and the duty of the court
to permit the amendment prayed for. The second count is the
familiar one in case, not requiring any averment of the payment of
money, found in 2 Chitty's Pleadings, 647 (ed. of 1840), and
in 2 Chitty's Precedents, 506, a (ed. of 1839), and was pursued
in Curtis v. Drinkwater, 2 Barn. and Adolph. 169 (22 English
C. L. Rep. 51). Had such averment been necessary, the omission would be cured after verdict, on the principle heretofore noticed.
Second. As to any irregularities committed by the juy in making up their verdict, they are not examinable in a court of error.
1 Peters's 0. C. R. 159. All these matters are referred to the
sound discretion of the court below. The refusal to grant a new
trial is not the subject of a writ of error. 4 Wheat. 223 ; 6 Wheat.
547.
Nothing, however, can be, better settled, than that the Circuit
Court was right in refusing to act upon the affidavit of a juror.
2 Tidd's Pr. 709 ; Vaise v. Delaval, 1 T. R. 11 ; Owen v.
Warburton, 4 Bos. & Pull. 326 ; 4 Wash'. C. C. R. 32 ; 4 Binn.
150 ; 5 Conn. R. 348 ; 3 Gill and Johns. 473 ; 2 Greenleaf, 41;
2 Tyler's Verm. R. 13.
That the process resorted to by the jury is not open to just exception, even if established by unexceptionable evidence, see Grinnell v. Phillips, I Mass. R. 541 ; Commonwealth v. Drew, 4
Mass. R. 399; Goodwinv. Philips, Lofft, 71; Lawrence v. Boswell, Sayer, 100.
. Third. As to the instructions prayed for by the counsel of the
defendants below, and refused by the court. The late lamented
Judge Baldwin delivered in this case an elaborate and comprehen"sive charge to the jury, in which the law, as settled by this court
in Stokes v. Saltonstall, 13 Peters, 181, was clearly laid down
and enforced. Unfortunately it cannot now be found. To this
charge so exception was taken. It covered the whole ground, and
the learned judge might well, therefore, have refused to notice any
of the points submitted by defendants' counsel. This course was
pursued by the circuit judge in the trial of Stokes v. Saltonstall
(see 13 Peters, 185). Judge Baldwin, however, thought proper to yield his assent to the points submitted, so far as he could do
so with propriety. His answers to these points, apart from the

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

1-5

Stockton et al v. Bishop.

general charge, established the following rules for the guidance of
the jury :1. That the proprietors of a stagecoach do not warrant the
safety of their passengers in the character of common carriers ; and
that they are not responsible for mere accidents to the persons of
passengers, but only for the want of due care. ' (Jury so instructed
in conformity to the first proposition submitted by the defendants
below.)
2. That they do not warrant the safety of passengers ; their
undertaking as to them goes no further than this, that as far as human wisdom and vigilance can go, they will provide for the safe
conveyance of their passengers. (Jury so instructed in conformity
to the second proposition submitted by defendants below.)
3. If the jury believe that the driver was a person of competent skill, of good habits, and in every respect qualified and suitably
prepared for the business in which be was engaged, plaintiff cannot
recover unless they were clearly satisfied that, on this occasion the
disaster was attributable to the fault of the driver, and not to the
darkness of the night or other accidental cause, and that said accident would not have occurred but for the fault of the driver. (Jury
so instructed in conformity to the seventh proposition submitted by
the defendants below.)
The other propositions submitted are either inconsistent with
what was conceded by the defendants themselves to be correct
doctrine, or present parts of the subject in a detached, isolated
form, calculated to mislead rather than enlighten the jury. Thus
the third and fourth propositions ask the court to declare, that although the grossest negligence and incapacity existed on this particular occasion, yet if the driver's past conduct and character had
been good, the proprietors were not liable. To have so held would
have been in'defiance of the decision of the Supreme Court in
Stokes v. Saltonstall (13 Peters, 181), and would have 'been inconsistent with the court's assent to the defendant's seventh proposition, where good conduct on the particular occasion is conceded to
be indispensable.
The fifth proposition presents a-hypothetical statement of facts,
and asks the court to instruct the jury that their existence would
free the defendants from liability. It is denied that any right exists
to force upon the court teasing and endless repetition of points favorable to one or the other side, where the law has been once correctly stated. But here, to have answered the question affirmatively
would have been palpably wrong, for all the circumstances mentioned might be true, and yet the disaster have been occasioned by
the intoxication of the driver.
So of 'the sixth proposition. It is to be borne in mind that the
court instructed the jury that plaintiff could not recover, "unless
they were clearly satisfied that on this occasion the disasterwas at-

166

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

tributable to the fault of the driver, and not to the darkness of the
night, or other accidental cause, and that said accident would not
have occurred but for the fault of the driver." The question,
therefore, was fully answered, without entering into an idle and unseemly dissertation on the several stages of drunkenness.
,Mr. Coxe, for plaintiffs in error, in reply and conclusion.
As to the errors in pleading which will lead to a reversal, see
9 Wheat. 720.
In this case there is no plea, and of course no replication;
docket entries are no part of the record. 10 Ohio Rep. 200 ; 5
Peters, 254 ; 12 Wheat. 118, 119.
(.Mr. gone then went into a critical examination of the record.)
Whatever would be fatal in the court below is also fatal in the
court above. 6 Cranch, 221; 15 Johns. 403.
If the first count be taken away, the second, standing by itself,
does not afford sufficient foundation for the judgment. For example, it speaks of a " day and year aforesaid," but no day is
named. It speaks of "passengers in a coach," but it is not
averred to be a public coach. If the contract is to be implied, the
fact that the stages were public must be averred. The declaration
says that the defendants did not perform their duty. How? Was
the plaintiff left behind ? Or was the driver negligent ? The
second count does not say.
When the cause of action is inaccurately set out, the defect is
cured by verdict ; but a mere allegation of omission of duty is
not enough. The case must show the facts. 2 Cranch, 389.
Title to property must be alleged. Stephens, 304 ; 2 Fenwick, 134.
The allegation in this case should have been, that the defendants
were common carriers ; there is none of a contract for hire. 2
Wash. 187 ; 2 New Hamp. R. 289.
Mutual promises must be averred. I Cain. 583; 5 Serg. &
Rawle, 358.
Every material fact must be averred with precision. 9 Johns.
291.
Will the verdict cure these defects of pleading ? The general
rule is, that nothing is to be presumed after verdict, except what is
stated in the declaration, or necessarily implied. f T. R. 145 ;
7 T. R. 521 ; 2 Tidd's Prac. 82.
It is not alleged here that the defendants were owners of the
coach, nor that it was a public coach. Douglas, 679.
Whatever the law will not imply must be stated in the declaration. 1 Chitty, 365, 368.
The declaration must aver a consideration, and here there is no
averment of any contract whatever. 5 T. R. 150; Latch'sRep.
177.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

167

Stockton et al. r. Bishop.

Air. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause comes here by a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the District of Western Pennsylvania. There is no bill of exceptions in the record ; although instructions said to have been given
by the court to the jury are certified up as part of the proceedings.
These of course we cannot notice. Other supposed errors are
therefore relied on as sufficient to reverse the judgment.
1. That the judgment belovi was rendered for the plaintiff, on,
the second count of the declaration ; and it is insisted that this
count is so defective, that no judgment could be rendered on it ;
and therefore on error the judgment must be reversed. If the assumption be true, the consequence must follow.
The second count refers to the first for the dates of the clircumstances, and the injury complained of, and as no time is givent
in the first count, neither .has this any.
The plaintiff in error having pleaded not guilty and gone to trial,
the presumption is that the proof supplied the defective statement.
Such, we suppose, is the uniform rule, where material dates are
left blank.
2. It is insisted that the declaration does not set out the payment of any passage money; nor any promise or undbrtaking on
the part of the defendants below to carry the plaintiff safely. The
allegation is, that the plaintiff, at the special instance and request
of the defendants, became and was a passenger in a certain coach,
to be carried safely, &c., for certain rewards to the defendants;
anathereupon it was their duty to use due and proper care, that
the plaintiff should be safely conveyed. The breach is well assigned, as it shows the neglect and consequent injury sustained.
No demurrer was interposed, for want of form ; and this brings the
32d section of the JudiciaryAct of 1789 to bear on-the proceeding."
Not guiltk, was pleaded; a trial had on the issue, on which the jury
returned a verdict in these words :-" Harriet Bishop v: Stockton,
Moore, & Co. We, the jurors sworn and empanelled in this
cause, do find for the plaintiff six thousand five hundred dollars,
with costs of suit, this 25th day of November, A. D. 1843."
The verdict was. received by the court, and" stands recorded as
found; and afterwards, on motion, it was amended so as to apply to
the second count only.
Who the jurors were, or how many found the verdict, does not
appear ; nor does it appear that they were sworn to try the issue,
further than the jury say in their verdict. Still we are bound to
presume in favor of proceedings in. a court having jurisdictiun of
the parties and subject-matter, that justice was administered in the
ordinary form, when so much appears as is found in this imperfect
record.
The declaration, plea, and finding must be taken together; and

168

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

from these, we are bound, by the 32d section, above cited, to ascertain whether, according to the right of "the cause and matter
in law," the plaintiff is entitled to her damages ; and in so doing,
defects of form must be disregarded. Why Congress so provided,
in 1789, is obvious. No modes of proceeding were prescribed by
the act, in civil causes, at common law, and the modes observed
in the English courts left to apply as general rules. These were
formal and technical ; and forasmuch as by the 35th section all
parties to causes in courts of the United States might plead and
manage their own causes personally, if they saw proper, technicalities could not be required. That the practice under this privilege has not corresponded to the theory tolerating it may be conceded; yet we cannot for this reason disregard the clause covering
jeofails, intended for its protection ; and if proceedings, as recorded, in the courts in any part of the Union were as loose in 1789
as this record indicates them yet to be, in one circuit court at
least, where the two acts of 1789 continue to govern, it must be
admitted that Congress acted wisely in declaring that no litigant
party should lose his right in law for want of form ; and in going
one step further, as Congress unquestionably has done, by declaring, that, to save the party's rights, the substance should be infringed on to some extent, when contrasted with modes of proceeding in the English courts, and with their ideas of what is substance.
According to "the right of the cause and matter of law,"
appearing to us on the pleadings and verdict, we think the plaintiff
is entitled to her damages, and that judgment below ought to have
been rendered for her.
But the judgment there given is also assailed, and justly, as being less formal than what precedes it. It is either no judgment, or
binding. If it amounts to nothing, then, by the .22d section of the
Judiciary Act, no writ of error lay (as one can only be prosecuted
on a final judgment), and the case must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, and the plaintiffs in error be sent to the court below,
to quash the execution. We think, however, there was a judgment on the verdict, that warranted an execution for the damages
found; and consequently the prosecution of a writ of error. And
this being so, for the reasons above stated, such judgment must be
affirmed.

