.TANUARV

TERM, 1846.

317

Cookendorfer v. Preston.

have brought trespass against the sheriff; or applied to the Circuit

Court for an attachment.
Out of the answer which sets up the deed of trust, the complainants 'insist they are entitled to relief. Now no relief can be given
by a court of equity, except a proper case be made in the bill.
The inquiry is not only whether the defendant, from his own showing or by proof, has acted unjustly and inequitably, but also,
whether the complainants, by their allegations and proof, have
shown that they are entitled to relief.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.

THomAs COOENDORPER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ANTHONY PRESTON,
DESzNDANT IN ERROR.
In an action brought by the indorsee against the indorser of a promissory note, which
had been deposited in a bank for collection, the notary public who made the protest is a competent witness, although he has given bond to the bank for the fiithfil performance of his du%.
He is also cozopetent to testi r as to his usual practice.
The cases reported in 9 Wheaton, 68, 11 Wheaton, 430, and 1 Petirs, 25, reviewed.
At the time when these decisions were made, it was the usage in the city of Washington to allow four days of grace upon notes discounted by banka, and aio upon
notes merely deposited for collection.
But since then the usage has been changed as to notes deposited for collection, and
been made to conform to the general law merchant, which allows only three days

of grace.

Although evideneL is not admissible to show that usage was in fact different fiom
that which it was established to be by judicial decisl'ne, yet it may be shown
that it-was subsequently changed.

THis case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of
the United States for- the District of Columbia, in and for the
county of Washington.
The case was this.
On the 17th of May, 1839, E. T. Arguelles gave the following
note.
$300.
Washington, May 17, 1839.
On the first day of February next, I promise to pay to Thomas
Cookendorfer, or order, three hundred dollars, for value received,
negotiable and payable at the Bank of Washington.
(Signed,)
E. T. ARGUELLES.
(Indorsed,)
Taos. COOKENDORFER.
ANTHONY PRESTON.

This note was deposited in the Bank of Washington, for collection. Not being paid at maturity by the drawer, it was protested

318

SUPREME COURT.
Cookendorfer

r.

Preston.

under the circumstances and in the manner stated in the bill of exc3ptions.
In February, 1842, a suit was brought by Preston, the indorsee,
against Cookendorfer, the indorser, which resulted in a verdict and
judgment for the plaintiff.
The following bill of exceptions shows the points of law which
were raised and ruled at the trial.
MTlfemorandum. Before the jurors aforesaid retired from the bar
of the court here, the said defendant, by his attorney aforesaid, filed
in court here the following bill of exceptions, to wit Defendant's Bill of Exceptions.
ANTHONY PRESTCN

v.

TnOMAS COOKENDORFER.

On the trial of this cause, the handwriting of the maker and indorser of the note in the declaration mentioned was admitted, and
the plaintiff; to maintain the issue on his part joined, offered George
Sweeny, who was admitted to be a notary public for the county
of Washington, District of Columbia, lawfully commissioned and
swomr, and by him they offered to prove that he, as such notary,
was required by the Bank of Washington (who then held the said
note for collection) to demand payment of the note mentioned in
the declaration, and the said note was delivered to him by the said
bank ; and he did thereupon, on the 4th day of February, 1840,
present tl" said note at the said bank, and did demand payment
thereof at the said bank, and he was answered by the proper officer
of the bank, "that there were no funds there for it" ; that he, the
said notary, did, on the next day, to wit, the 5th day of Februpry,
1840, deliver to the defendant a notice in writing, which not; e being now produced to the witness by the defendant, is in t",e words
and figures -following :Notice of 5 February, 1840.
Washington, February5th, 1840.
Sm:- A note drawn byE . T. Arguelles, dated the 17th May,
1839, for three hundred dollars, payable at 1-4 February, 1840,
due, and by you indorsed, and for which you are accountable to the
President and Directors of the Bank of Washington, has been
this day protested for non-payment.
Your obedient servant,
GEORGE SWEENEY, .Notary Public.
THos. COOKENDORVER, Esq.
And he did, also, on the said 5th day of February, 1840, extend and record in his notarial register the protest of the said note,
which is in the words and figures following :-

JANUAR7 TERM, 1846.

319

Co'okendorfer v. Preston.

Protest.

$ 300.

WASHINGTON, .May 17, 1839.
On the first day of February next, I promise to pay to Thomas
Cookendorfer, or order, three hundred dollars, for value received,
negotiable and payable at the Bank of Washington.
E. T. ARGUELLES.
(Sipned,)
(Indorsed,) Tnos. COOKENDORFER,
ANTHONY PRESTON.

Washington County, sct.
Be it known, that on the 4th day of February, 1840, I, George
Sweeny, notary public, by lawful authority duly commissioned and
sworn, dwelling in the county and District aforesaid, at the request
.of the President and Directors of the Bank of Washington, presented at the said bank the original note, whereof the above is a
true copy, and' demanded there payment of the sum of money in
the said note specified, whereunto I was answered,-" There are
no funds here for it."
Therefore, I, the said notary, at the request aforesaid, have
protested, and by these presents do solemnly protest, against the
drawer and indorser of the said note, and all others whom it doth
or may concern, for all costs, exchange, reExchange, charges, damages, and interests suffered and to be suffered for want of payment
thereof.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
[SEAL.] my seal notarial, this 5th day of February, 1840.
GEORGE SWEENY, ,Notary Public.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,

Protesting, .1"75.

Recorded in protest-book G. S. No. 3, page
And the said witness further teztified, that he copied the form of
the said notice from a form used by Michael Nourse, one oi the
oldest notaries in the city, and largely employed as notary, and that
he made the demand and gave'the notice in this case according to,
his usual practice, and that his said practice conformed, so far as
he knows and believes, to the practice of the other notaries in the
city of Washington.
And the plaintiff offered further evidence tending to prove the
said practice of said notaries to be according to the statement made
by Mr. Sweeny, and that the usual practice was, when a notice
was to be sent abroad, to put it into the post-office, and date it on
the third or last day of grace; but when the notices were to be delirerec in the city of Washingtor, a latitde was allowed to the
notary, either to deliver the notice on the third or last day of grace,
or the day after the last day, and in all cases to date the notice on
the day of its delivery, and the usage is to extend the protest on
the day on which the notice is given as in this case, stating the de-

20

SJPREME COURT.
Cookendorfer v. Preston.

mand to have been made on the last day of grace, and the protest
to be dated the same day on which the notice is dated.
And the said George Sweeny, on cross-examination, testified
that he usually acted on behalf of the said' Bank of Washington,
at its request, as the notary in regard to notes and bills in said
bank, and that he had given a bond, with security, to said bank, in
the penal sum of $ 10,000, f6r the faithful performance of his duty
as notary public in regard to said business, and that the note in
controversy had been deposited by plaintiff in said bank for collection.
And the counsel for the defendant objected to the admissibility
and competency of said George Sweeny as a witness, and the court
overruled the said objection, and permitted the said Sweeny to be
sworn, and to testify as aforesaid to the jury, to which the defendant, by his counsel, excepted, and prayed the court to seal this bill
of exceptions, 'which is done accordingly.
And the said counsel for the defendant further objected to the
admissibility .and competency of the said testimony upon the subject of the practice and usage spoken of by the witness, but the
court overruled the objection, and suffered the said testimony to go
to the jury ; whereupon the said counsel excepted.
And the said counsel for the defendant thereupon moved the
court to instruct the jury, that the said evidence was not sufficient,
if believed to be true, to show that payment of- said note had been
duly demanded and refused, and that due notice of such dishonor
had been given to defendant so as to bind him.
But the court refused to give such instruction.
To each of which rulings of the court,in permitting the evidence
as aforesaid to go to the jury. in refusing the instruction as prayed,
the defendaht: by his counsil, excepts, and prays the court to seal
this bill of exceptions, which is accordingly done, this 7th day of
April, 1843.
W. CRANCH.
[8s:AroJ
JAMES S. MORSELL. [sEAt.]
The 'cause was argued by 1Mr. Bledioe and.Mr. Coze, for the
plaintiff in error, and Mr: Bradley, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Bledoe, for plaintiff in error, made three points :1. That the court erred in'admitting the testimony of the notary
public.
2. That the court erred in refusing the instruction asked for by
the defendant's counsel.
3. That the declaration is radically and essentially defective.
1. It may be said, that the objection to. the evidence of the notary public goes to his credibility rather than to his competency,

.JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

M2

Cookendorfer v. Preston.

But inasmuch as the bank would he absolved from responsibility if
the notary committed an error, and all the liability to the party injured by the fault would devolve upon the notary, it clearly became
his interest to exonerate himself from it by proving .that he committed no fault. His interest was strong and direct. Bayley on
Bills, 251 ; 20 Johnson, 372; same case, 3 Cowen, 562.
If the plaintiff should fail in recovering from the indorser, on account of the ignorance or neglect of the notary in making a aufficient protest, the latter would become personally liable. His
interest is to protect himself by securing a recoiery from the
indorser.
2. Supposing the evidence to be admissible, itis not sufficient.
A note must be presented-for payment on the day that it falls due.
When is that ? On the last day of grace. The time of grace
formed a part of the contract by the indorser. 1 Peters, 31.
But in this case it was presented on the third day of grace.
This would have been proper under the general law merchant, if
that law prevailed in the District of Columbia. But it does not.
It is controlled by a local usage, 'which is to alow four days of grace.
1 Peters, 34 ; 9 Wheat. 582.
Such an usage is part of the contract, whether the parties were
acquainted with it or not. 11 Wheaton, 430.
A presentment too soon is a nullity. Bayley on Bills, 236.
No proof was offered in this case, of the four days usagb, but as
it had been once proved and established, we were not bound to
prove it again. It then became a part o- the law. 1 Peters's C.
C. R. 20 ; 2 Starkie (7thLond. ed.), 360.
In 1 Peters, 34, there was no proof of thig usage, but the court
relied upon its having been proved .before. There was proof of
another usage, but'none of that now in question.
It is apprehended that the counsel on the other side mean to
make a distinction between notes discounted by banks and those
left for collection ; and to contend that the usage of four days grace
applies only to notes discounted by banks. But this distinction is
not recognized in the case in 1 Peters, 33, 34.
The usage being once established and recognized by law, the
court below erred in admitting evidence to contradiot it. 9 Law
Lib. 40 ; 2 Burr. 1216, 1220, 1222, 1224, 1228 ; 1 Call, 159 ; 2
Starkie, 360.
It is an usage in other places to allow four days grace, and this
is recognized as valid in the books. Chitty on Bills, 407, note;
Bayley on Bills, 235, note, speaking of this one.
It is contrary to the policy of the law to leave these questions
open for the jury. Chitty on Bills, 402.
The law merchant is built upon usage taken in connection with
the principles of justice, not being found in any statutes. Evidence
to unsettle it ought not to be received. 1 Dail. 265 ; 3 Wash.
VOL. IV.
41

822

SUPREME COURT.
Cookendorfer v. Preston.

C. C. R. 149; 5 Binney, 207 ;6.Binney, 420, 450; 1 Hall,
619.
3. The evidence does not support the declaration, which says
that the note was presented on the third day of grace. The notice
does not state the day of presentation, saying only that it was protested on the 5th of February. The note Was due either on the 4th
or 5th. We gay it was not due until the 5th. If so, it was premature to present it on the 4th, the day on which the counsel on
the other side say it was due.
.fr. Bradley, for defendant in error.
As to the first point. A notary is not an ofticer of the law to demand payment of notes, out is merely an agent of the bank. It has
been said, that the bank would not be responsible for an error of the
notary, and the case in 3 Cowen cited to sustain it. But in that case
the bank was held responsible.
The bank is the agent of the deposition, and the notary is the
agent of the bank. In an action by the holder against the indorser,
the competency of the notary cannot be affected. If the action
were against the bank, the conclusion might be different. The
competency of a notary as a witness is discussed in 2 Bailey's
S. C. Rep, 183.
An agent is generally a competent witness as to matters within
his agency. 1 Bingham, 368 ; 6 Lea. R. 29 ; 1 N. H. Rep. 192;
5 Martin, N. S., 310. See also 15 Wend. 314.
*2. The notary not only proved his own acts, but the general
usage and custom of allowing different days of grace upon notes
discounted by a bank and those merely deposited for collection.
It is admitted, that if courts have, by their decisions, settled, and
established what the usage is, it becomes as binding as statute law.
The general usage in the United States is to allow only three days
of grace, and the special custom of this District is to allow four
days only as to those notes discounted by a bank. 9 Wheat. 582,
583 ; Story on Prom. Notes, 242, note.
In the case of Bank of Washington v. Triplett and Neale, 1
Peters, 33, 34, the report of the case does not show that any evidence was taken to establish usage, but the original record shows
that it was so. (Here Jffr. Bradley produced the original record.)
Usage depends on the practice of banks. But this may have
changed between 1824 and 1840, and if so, can we not show it ?
Is a usage, once recognized by a court as existing, to last for ever
without any change ? If the people in the District should conform
to the custom in other parts of the United States, shall-we be precluded from showing it by evidence ? It is said that the evidence
given was not sufficient. But the existence of usage is a factof which
the jury are to judge, and the court was right in leaving it to them.
3. The declaration says that demand was made on the third day

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

323

Cookendorfer v. Preston.

of grace. But the fact of notice on that day is immaterial ; it always says on the day and year aforesaid.
Mr. Cozxe, for plaintiff in error, in reply.
As to the competency of the witness. The notary was a public
officer, and the bank could not be held responsible for his mistakes.
It is the duty of the bank to collect notes which are deposited for
collection, and for this purpose it must employ competent agents.
It is only responsible in case it employs incompetent ones. But
where it uses due diligence according to the law of bailments, it is
not liable for their errors. In the case in 20 Johnson, the bank
was held responsible because it did not employ a public officer,
but an agent of its own. In the present case, the bank would be
blameless, but the notary is responsible to-the holder of the note, if,
from any negligence or ignorance on the part of the notary, the
holder were to lose his remedy against the indorser:. Besides,
he has given a bond to the bank, in a penalty of $ 10,000, for the
faithful performance of his duty. If a person, standing in such a
situation, is ever admitted as a witness, it is only from necessity,
and then he is only allowed to prove his own acts. But here he
not only proves what he did, but goes on to testify as to the regularity and correctness of his actions, and that, too, by refeorring to
other persons. For example, he says that he "copied from an
old notary." The old notary himself could have proved this much
better. The usage is to extend the protest on the last day of grace.
The notice here says, "this day protested," &c., that is, on the
5th ; but it does not say whether the demand was made on the 3d
or 4th day.
Was any evidence adinissible in this case to show usage ?
There have been three decisions of this court upon the subject.
In the first, 9 Wheat. 582, the note happened to he discounted at
bank. But can a contract lie changed without the party's being
aware of it, merely by the circumstance that the note has been subsequently discounted at bank ?
In 11 Wheat. 431, stress was laid upon the note's being made
for the purpose of being negotiated.
In Bank of Washingtqn v. Triplett and Neale, 1 Peters, both the
above cases came up again for review, and the original record has
been referred to by Mr. Bradley, to show that evidence was given
upon the subject of usage. It was so. That evidence says, that
it was the usage to demand payment of notes which were deposited for collection on the day after the third day of grace.
(Air. Bradley referred to the record, and said that the original
practice was changedby the banks, and demand made on the third day.)
It is contended by the other side, that there is a difference between discounted notes and those deposited for collection. But
there is no allusion to this in the testimony, and no such distinction

3 4

SUPREME COURT.
Cookendorfer v. Preston.

made in any part of the record.
applicable to all.

The same usage appears to be

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions in this case arise on the rulings of the court, to
which, at the trial, exceptions were taken.
Preston, the defendant, as the indorsee of a promissory note,
brought an action against the plaintiff in error, the indorser. The
signatures of the maker and indorser- were admitted. These
grounds of error are assigned:k. That the court erred in admitting the testimony of the notary
public.
2.'In refusing the instructions asked by the defendant's counsel.
3. The declaration is defective.
George Sweeny, the notary who protested the note, testified
that it was delivered to him by the Bank of Washington, who held
it for collection; to demand payment, and that he did thereupon,
the 4th of February, 1840, present the note to the bank, and demanded payment, but was informed by the proper officer that there
were no funds to pay it, on which he protested the same for nonpayment ; and nn the next day, the 5th of February, he delivered
to Cookendorfer, the plaintiff in error, thi following notice, in
wvritng :w :Washington, "ebruary
5th, 1840.
"1 Sir, -A
note drawn by E. T. Argt,,.lles, dated 17th May,
1839, for three hundred dollars, payable 1 -4 February, 1840,
due, and by you indorsed, and for which you are accountable
to the president and directors of the Bank of Washington, has been
this day protested. f6r non-payment."
And the witness stated, " that he made the demand and gave the
notice hccording to his usual practice," and "that said practice
conformed, as far as he knows and believes, to the practice of the
other notaries in the city of Washington."
And other evidence was given, conducing to show that the usual practice in such cases was, "when a notice was to be sent
abroad, to put it into the post-office, anld date it on the third or
last day of grace ; but when the notice was to be delivered in the
city of Washington, a latitude was allowed to the notary either to
deliver the notice on the third or last day of grace, or the day after
the last day, and in all cases to date the notice on the day of its
delivery ; and the usage is to extend the protest on the day on
which the notice is given, as in this case, stating the demand to
aave been made on the last day of grace, and the protest to be
dated the same day on which the notice is dated."
It-is insisted that the notary, by reason of his interest in this
suit, is an incompetent witness.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

325

Coolkendorfer v. Preston.

In the cas6 of Smedes v. Utica Bank, 20 Johns. R. 372, it was
held that a bank which receives a promissory note for collection, to
charge the indorser, by a regular notice, is liable for neglect-; but
this is not the case where the bank delivers the note to a notary,
who is a 9worn public officer, and -whos4 duty it is to make the
demand and give the notice. The same doctrine is laid down in
3 Cowen, 662. From this it is argued that the notary is liable
directly to the holder of the paper for neglect, as a public officer,
and not to the bank, as its private agent. That in the latter case
he would not be liable to the holder of ihe paper, but might be
called on to indemnify the bank which-had suffered on account of
his laches.
A notary is a competent witness on the same ground that other
agents are admissible. They are always.responsible to their principals for gross negligence, and yet, from the necessity of the case,
they are competent witnesses to prove what they have done in the
name of their principals.
It appears that the witness, who generally acted as notary for
the Bank of Washington, had given a bond, with security in the
sum of ten thousand dollars, for the faithful performance of his duty
as notary public, in the business of the bank committed to him.
But this, it would seem, does not render him incompetent. ," The
cashier or teller of a bank is a competent witness for the bank, to
charge the defendant on a promissory note, or for money lent or
overpaid, or obtained 'from the officer without the security which
he should have received; and even though the officer has given
bond to the bank for his official conduct." Greenleaf's Ev. 485 ;
The Franldin Bank v. Freeman, 16 Pick. 535 ; United States
Batik v. Steams, 15 Wendell, 314.
It is further insisted, that if the notary was competent to state his
own acts, he could not prove the usage under which he acted. He
stated, that in making the protest and giving notice he pursued "his
usuaLpractice," "and, so far as he knew, the practice of the other
notaries in the city." Now it would be an exceedingly technical
rule which would permit a notary to say what he had done in a
particular case, but prohibit him from stating that he acted in such
case according to his usual practice. And this was all the witness
did say ; for although he spoke of his belief as to the practice of
other notaries in the city, he does not state that he had a knowledge
of their practice.
The instruction prayed by the defendant's counsel, and the refusal of which is the second ground of error assigned, was, "'that
the said evidence was not sufficient, if believed to be true, to show
that payment of said note had been duly demanded and refused,
and that due notice of such dishonor had been given to defendant,
so as to bind him."
In the case of Renner v. The Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheat.
VOL. iV.

ER

326

SUPREME COURT.
Cookendorfer v. Preston.

582, a suit was brought against the irnlorser of a note which had
been negotiated in the Bank of Columbia. Payment was demanded, and the note protested on the fourth day after that mentioned in
the note as th-e day on which it became payable. This was proved
to be the usage of the bank, and this court held the demand was
made at the proper time. In Mills v. The Bank of the United
States, 11 Wheat, 430, this court held, that " when a note is
made payable or negotiable at a bank, whose invariable usage it is
to demand payment and give notice on the fourth day of grace, the
parties *are bound by that usage, whether they have a personal
knowledge of it or not."
In the Bank of Washington v.Triplett and Neale, 1 Peters, 25,
this court sanction the usage to make the demand of payment of
a note which was left in the bank for collection on the day after
the last day of grace, placing such notes, in this respect, on the
same footing as notes discounte'd by the bank. And that such was
the usage in 1817, when payment on the note or bill in question
was demanded, was proved in that case. But it was also proved,
as appears from the record, that the usage was changed in 1818 by
all the banks 6f Washington and Georgetown, " so as to conform to the general commercial usage of demanding payment on
the last day-of grace."
This referred to notes or bills sent to the
banks for, collection, and of course embraces all notes not negotiated
in bank.
Where a usage is sanctioned by judicial decisions, it becomes
the law of the place, and no further proof is necessary to establish
it ; and it is said, that no evidence is admissible to controvert the
fact, as laid down by the court. Edie v. East India Co., 2 Burr.
1221.
Now if the usage, as sanctioned in the cases above cited, governs
this case, it is clear that such diligence has not been used as to
charge the indorser. For, under that usage, the demand should
have been made on the day after the third day of grace, when it
was in fact made on the third day of grace.
This objection is met by the defendant in error by the proof of
the usage as, stated ; which he insists governs all notes not discounted by the banks of the District. The note in question was
not discounted by the Bank of Washington, it being merely left
there for collection. But it is insisted that this usage cannot be
shown to overthrow that which has been sanctioned by judicial decisions. A local usage may be changed in the same mode by
which it was established. But parol evidence is not admissible to
show that the usage was different, at the time, from what the court;
have solemnly adjudged it to be. The law merchant is founded
upon custom, and 6very modification of it by local usage shows
that, like other laws, it may be changed.
The usage proved in this case, except ii Bank of Washington v.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

327

Rankin et al. v. Hoyt.

Triplett and Neale, and that is explained by the evidence cited,
does not conflict with that decided by this court, if the latter be
limited to notes discounted by the banks, and the former applies to
all other notes payable in the District. In other words, that the law
merchant should be modified by the usage only as to demand and
notice on notes discounted by the banks. And it would seem, from
the decisions above cited, the usage to demand payment the day after
the third day of grace had its origin with the banks, and has not been
extended, since 1818, to paper not discounted by them. On all
other paper, a demand is made on the third .day of grace, and the
"1usage is to extend the protest on the day on which the notice is
given, stating the demand to have been made on the last day of
grace, and the protest to be dated the same day on which the notice
is dated." Nbwa demand and protest on the last day of grace, and
a notice on the following day., come strictly within the law merchant.
And this was" the diligence used in the present case, except the
formal date of the protest on the day of the notice. No confusion
can, therefore, arise froum this'general commercial usage, as it.conforms to the established law. No inconvenience has arisen, it is
supposed, from the bank usage in the District, which has been so
long and so firmly established.
No defects in the declaration are perceived, and none have been
pointed out to us, which are not cured by the v rdict.
Upon the whole, we affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court,
with costs.

-ALEXANDEF, RANxiN, CUNNINGHAz Sxri5H, GEoiRG C. C. THUEGER,
AND .'OHN McCALL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JESSE HoYT.
Under the act of 1832, the collector had power to direct wool to be appraised, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether or not it was entitled to be imported free
from duty ; the exemption depending upon its value not exceeding eight cents
per pound at the place of exportation.
Although it was necessary for the collector to request the appraisers to act, and no
such request appears in the record, yet the legal presumption is, that the collector
and appraisers-did their duty, he requesting their action and they complying.
And the collector's subsequent adoption of the proceedings of the appraisers is tantamount to having requested them.
It was the duty of the collector to be guided by such an appraisement, and a spbsequent verdict ofa jury, finding that the value of the wool was under eight cents
per pound, cannot be considered as rendering his acts illegal.
The importer bad a right to,appeal to 'another board of appraisers, differently constituted, and if he did not choose to resort to them, he cannot, with much grace,
afterwards complain that an over-estimate existed.

THis case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
It was an action brought by the plaintiffs in error, transacting

