JANUARY

TERM, 1846.-

503

Michoud et al. -v. Girod et al.

the record shait have been transmitted to an inferior tribunal. But,
independently-of these irregularities, we think that this court Jmve
no jurisdiction under the act of Congress, and on this ground this
suiris dismissed.

ANTOINE MIcHuoiD, JOSEPH MAIE GIROD, GABRIEL MONTAXAT, FEr
LIx GrEiA, JEAN B. DYAN, AiNi DENIS PRIEUR, CHARLES CLAIBORNE, MANDEVILLE MARIGNY, MADAx E. GmRu, WIDOW SABATIER, A. FOURNIER, E. MAZUREAv, E. RIVOLET, CLAUDE GunLIE,
THE MAYOR 6F THE CITY OF NEW ORLEANS, THE TREASURR or
THE CHARITY HOs PITAL, AND THE CATHOLtC ORPHNt'S AsYLUM,
APELLANTS, V. PERONNE BERNARDINE GIROD, WIDOW OF J. P. H.
PARGOUD, RESIDING AT ABERVILLE, IN THE DUCHY OF SAVOY, f.ROSALIE GIROD. WIDOW oF PHILIP-ADAm, BESIDING AT FAVEEGES, IN
THE DUCHY OF SAVOY, ACTING FOR THEMSELVES AND IN BEHALF OF
THEIR COHEIRS OF CLAUDE FRANgois GIROD, TO WIT, Louis- JoSEPH POIDEBARD, FRANoIS S. POIDEBARD, DENIS P. POIDEBAfiD,
WIDOW Or P.NicouD; JACQUELINE PO6EBARD, WIFE OF MARIE
RIVOLET; CLAUDINE POIDEBARD, WIDOW OF P. F. POIDEBARD; AND
M. R. POIDEBARD, WIFE or ANTHELDIE VALLIER, AND ALSO OF
FRAN~ois QUvTAND JEAN Wf.-F. QUETAND, MAIEJ QUETAND, WIFE
or J. M. AVIT ; F ANSOISE °QVETAND,- WIFE or J.A: ALLARD; MIARIE R..QU TAND, MARIE B. QUETAND ; ALSO OF J. F. GiiOt,
JEANNE
P. GIROD, WIE OF CLEMENT ODONINO, F. CLEMENTINE GIROD,
WIFE OF P. F. PEENOISE, AND JEAN MICHEL GIROD,. DEFEND-NTS.
A person cannot legally purchase on his own account that which his duty or trust
requires him to sell on account of another, nor purchase on account of another
that which he sells on his own account. He is not allowed to unite the two
opposite characters of buyer and seller.
A purchase, per interpositam personan,by a trustee or agent, of the particular
property of which he has the sale, or in which he represents another, whether:
he has an interest in it or not, carries fraud on the face of it.
This rule applies t, a purchase by executors, at open sale, although they were empowered by the '-ill to sell the estate of their testator for the benefit of heirs and
legatees, a part of which heirs and legatees they themselves were.
A purchase so made by executors will be set aside.
The decisions of the courts of several States, upon this subject, examined and rea
marked upon.
Relaxations of this rule of the civil law, which were made in some countries of
Europe, were not adopted by the Spanish law, and of course never reached Louisiana. Nor were those' relaxations carried so far as to allow a testamentary or
dative executor to buy the property which he was appointed to administer.
The maxims and qualifications of the civil law, upon this point, examined.
Although courts of equity generally adopt.the statutes of limitation, yet, in a case
of actual fraud, they will grant relief within the lifetime of either of the parties upon whom the fraud is proved, or within thirty years after it has been discovered or become known to the party whose rights are affected by it.
Within what time a constructive trust will be barred must depend upon the circumstances of the case, and these are always examinable.
Acquittances given to an executor, without a full knowledge of au the circumstances, where such information had been withheld by the executor, and menaces
and promises thrown out to prevent inquiry, are not binding.

WSUPREME

COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et aL

THis case was brought up by appeal from the Circuit Court of
the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, sitting as
a court of equity.
The widow Pargod and others, defendants in this court, were
complainants in the court below, and obtained a. decree in their
favor, from which the other parties appealed. They alleged, that
a series of fraudulent transactions occurred; commencing in 1813,,
by which they had been deprived of their fair share of the estate of
Claude Francois Girod, whose heirs they were, and that the chief
agent in this fraud was Nicholas Girod, a brother of the deceased
Claude Franois Girod, and also a brother of some of the complainants, and relative of the rest.
Claude Frangois Girod was a resident of the parish of Assumptjon, in the State of Louisiana, and died in the mopth.of November,
1813, leaving a last will and testament, dated op the 30th of November, 1812, and a codicil, dated on the 4th of November, 1813,
which will was admitted to probate, with the codicil, on the 8th of
November, 1813. He never was married, and left eight brothers
and sisters, and the children of a predeceased sister. These surviving brothers and sisters, with the exception of Jacques, otherwise called Jacques Antoine Girod (who was excluded by the
terms of the will), were the legal heirs of the deceased Claude
Frangois Girod, each for the one eighth part of his estat6 and the
succession ; and the heirs and legal representatives of the said predeceased sister, the legal heirs by representation of their deceased
mother, for the remaining eighth part of the estatq.
The proceedings in the case were exceedingly complicated.
There was a bill, and an amended bill, and a supplemental bill, and
another amended bill, and then another amended bill. Instead of
pursuing the case through all these details, the simplest course will
be to state-the charges in the bill, and the documents brought forward to sustain them.
The will of Claude Francois Girod was as follows " I, Claude Francois Girod, the legitimate son of Frangois
Silvestre Girod, deceased, and of the late Frangois, born Dubois,
native of Th~ne, in Savoy, diocese of Geneva, province of France,
and now a resident of the parish of Assumption, on Bayou
Lafourche, in the State of Louisiana, being about sixty years of age,
and desirous to die in the Roman Catholic and Apostolic religion,
under which I have ever lived, with a-firm belief in the mysteries
'of our holy religion, do ordain this my last will or testament, in
case .I should be overtaken by death, the hour of which I am uncertain of; and as it behooves all living beings to settle their temporal affairs, when they are in the full enjoyment of their health and
reason, in order to avoid terebythe difficulties which arise when
we are laboring under a dangerous disease, which takes from us the
use of our reasonable faculties, and consequently deprives us of the

JANUARY TERM

1.46.
4

565-

Michoud et al. v. Giro1 et al.

understanding and memory necessary to the faithful and peaceable
settletment ot our family affairs, with a..view to avert from our heirs
the difficalties always prejudical to those that are absent. Now,
therefore, under these circumstances, I invoke the grace:and clemency of God, to whom I recommend my soul When separated from
my body ; and I wish and ordain, that the latter be buried among
faithful Christians, with all the usual "rites of our mother church,
leaving with my testamentary executors, herein after named, the
performance of all pious works, such as causing. three masses to be
said on my behalf to my holy patron, as also funeral services,
masses, &c., &c.
"I1. I declare that the property I am now possessed of are the
earnings of my labor and savings, and consist of the following items,
to wit :- Three houses and several lots situated in suburb St. Mary,
above the city of New Orleans, and one in Chartres Street, now
occupied by my brothe, Nicolas Girod; one-main plantation, whereon I reside, situated in said Bayou Lafourehe, with all the buildings, improvements, and appurtenances thereof-,and being thirty-one
and a half arpents front, together with the utensils, implements of
husbandry, animals of all kind,- and one hundred and odd slaves of
different ages belonging to me ; also, i quantity of lands situated in
the different 'parishes of the bayou, the titles to which I hold in my
possession ; also, a certain sum of money is due to me, which I cannot ascertain at present, but which will be made to appear by the
books and obligations in my power ; also, I am the owner of upVards
of two hundred and seventy bales of ginned cotton, now in my
stores; also, I declare that I am indebted unto divers persons -by
obligations, and little by accounts, in a sum of about thirty thousand
dollars.
"4 3. I give and bequeath to my parish of Thbne, in Savoy, to
have a solemn mass annually said on my behalf, and-to contribute
to the repairs of said church, a sum of two thousand dollars, such
being my will.
"4. I give to the poor of my said parish, to be distributed among
them so a to meet their most pressing wants,, a sum of one thousand dollars, such being my will." 5. I give and bequeath to the cousins, Dodos Golli6, of said
parish, a sum of five hundred dollars, such h~ing my-will.
"16. I give and beqheath to the brothers and sisters, Joseph Suard,
senior, and Antoine Suard, junior, sons of Antbine Suard, deceased,
since about thirty years, residing at Cluse, in Fonsigny (Savoy),
the sum of two thousand dollars, such being my will.
"7. I give and bequeath to my distant relations of said parish a
sum of five hundred dollars, to be -distributed among them, -such
being my will.
"8. I give and bequeath to the Charity Hospital of Th6ne, in
Savoy, a sum of one thousand dollars, such being my will.
VOL. IY.
64
qQ,,

508

SUPREME COURT.
Michdud et a]. v. Girod et a.

'C 9. I give and bequeath to the children of my deceased sister,
Franqoise, wife of Poidabard, without prejudicing their rights in
and to my succession, the sum of two thousand dollars, to be
divided between them by equal poitions, such being my will.
" 10. I give and bequedth to my sister Teresa, wife of Quetant,
without prejudice to her rights in my succession, a sum of one
thousand dollars, such being my will.
c 11. I give and bequeath to my god-daughter and sister, Rosalie,
married at Talcire, her husband's name being unknown to me, a
sum of one thousand dollars, without prejudice to her rights in my
succession, such being my will.
"112. I give for once to my brother James Girod, a sum of four
thousand dollars, without any other rights or pretensions whatever in
and to my succession, such being my last will.
"113. 1 give and bequeath to mybrother Claude, married, the sum
of two thousand dollars, without prejudice to his.rights in my succession, such being my last will.
" 14. I give and ,bequeath to the parish of Assumption, for the
church.wardens in Lafourche, where I now reside, a sum of five
hundred dollars, for contributing to the construction of a church,
such being my will.
"1115. I give and bequeath to the mulatress Frangoise Vils, for the
faithful services she has rendered to me at my house, during a Ion
space of time, a sum of six thousand dollars, which shall be.paid
to her (after my death) one, two, and three years, such being my
will.
" 16. I give and bequeath to my god-daughter Franmoise, a free
colored woman, the daughter of Rosette, a negro woman, a sum of
fifteen hundred dollfrs, such being my last will.
" 17. I give and bequeath to the mulatress Belanie, wife of
Colas Meillen, a sum of two hundred dollars, such being my will.
"118. I give likewise to her younger sister Polline, a sum of two
hundred dollars, such being my will.
" 19. I give and bequeath to my mulatto slave Dominic, who is
a blacksmith and rum-distiller, his freedom, which he shall be put in
possession of six'months after my death, for his good and faithful
services to me.
"120. I nominate for my testamentary executors th following
persons, my brother Nicolas, who- is my senior, and Jean Fran ois,
my junior, the former being a merchant in New Orleans, and the
second is a planter, residing at Washita, and in their default, Mr.
Phillipon, senior, merchant at New Orleans, to whom I give, by
the present olographic testament, full power and authority as required by law to take possession of all my property present and to
come, to inventory, sell, and cause them to be sold, as' to him will
seenA best for the heirs of all my brothers and sisters, present and
absent, without intervention of justice, hereby annulling ani de-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

5W

Michoud et al v. Girod et al.

claring void all other testaments, codicils, and donations, me'is
causa, and other acts of last will which I may have made previous
to and to the prejudice of the present, which is the only one I
adopt as being my last will, in order that my heirs may inherit and
enjoy my property with the benediction of God and mine, &c.
" Done and passed on my plantation, at Lafourche, the 30th of
November, 1812.
(Signed,)
C. F. GIROD.
J'H COURRIE, Witness8.SAINT FELIX, withess.
"Ne varietur
"STATE

or LoUIszAurA, PARISH OF ASSUMPTION:.

"Monday, the 8th of November, in the year 1813.
"1At the request of Mr. Nicolas Girod, I, F. Corvaisier, judge
of this parish, did repair to the plantation of the late C. F. Girod,
where a' bundle written over having been presented to me as the
testament or last will of the said C. F. Girod, signed by him under
date of the thirtieth of November, eighteen hundred and twelve, as
also an open codicil signed by the deceased, in the presence of
Messrs. Prevot, St. Felix, and Francois Bernard de Deva, I *proceeded to the proof of said testament by swearing to that effect
Messrs. St. Felix and J'h Courrie, witnesses to said testafrent,
in the presence of Mr. Nicolas Girod, and then proceeded -to open
the same.
(Signed,)
N. GIROD,
J. L. COURRIE,
SAINT FELIX BECHE,
Justice of the Peace.
F. CORREJOLLES, uitnees.
F. CORVAISIER, Judge.
"1And by the opening of said testament we saw that Messrs.
Nas Girod and F'ois Girod, brothers of the deceased, were appointed testamentary executors.
(Signed,)
F. CORVAISIER, Judge."
There were four inventories made of the, property of the deceased, namely :November 12th, 1813.
'In the parish of Assumption.
February 3d, 1814.
In the parish of Assumption.
February 18th, 1814.
In the parish of Assumption.
February 26th, 1814.
In the city of New Orleans.
The amount of all these inventories was $ 124,594-45. In
the fourth inventory was included the half of a house and lot at the
corner of S' Louis and' Chartres Streets, in the city of New Orleans, whereas the complainants alleged that the whole of it be-

WSUPREME

COURT.
Michoud et al. r. Girod et al.

longed to the deceased, and ought to have been included in the
inventory.
The bill then charged, that the executors plotted and contrived
to obtain possession, for their own use: and benefit, and to the wrong
and injury of their coheirs, of the entire succession -and estate of
their deceased brother, by virtue of the ,following proceedings,
which were charged with being illegal and fraudulent, namely :I On the 19th of January, 1814, the executors presented the following petition :'$ To

the Honorable Fran's Corvaisier, Judge of the Court of Probates of the Parish of Assumption, Lafourche.
"The petition of Nicholas and Jean Francois Girod, both merchants, residing in the State of Louisiana, and testamentary
executors of the late Claude Francois Girod, deceased, in the
said lfarish, humbly showeth :4"That their deceased brother, Claude Frangois Girod, by his
testament dated the 30th of November, 1812, has appointed them
his testamentary executors and detainers of his estate, and, as such,
given to.them full power and authority to cause an inventory of all
his property to be made, without intervention of justice, to sell or
cause to be sold his property, in whole or in part, as to them will
seem best for their own interests, and for those of' the absent heirs
named in said testament.
"Wherefore petitioners pray the honorable court to order,
that the sale of the movablesi movable effects, and of the main
plantation, as also of the slaves of both sexes employed thereon,
and other lands adjoiningtherbto, and making part thereof in die
lifetime of the- deceased, be made at public auction, for cash, as
consisting in part of perishable objects, and for the purpose of paying the debts of the sucdession, after the usual delays, advertisements, and publications required by law.
"The 19th of January, 1814.
(Signed,)
N. GIROD,
Testamentary Executor.
JN. FS. GIROD,
Testamentary Execuftor."
On the 16th of February; 1814, the following bond was executed
"Whereas, the honorable judge, Franqois Corvaisier, thinks that
he is not authorized to sell the several properties situated in the
parish of Lafourche, interior, as being without the jurisdiction of
his said parish ; and whereas we are desirous to remove all the
liabilities which the said honorable judge might subject himself to,
by selling said lands in the same manner, and at the same time, as
those situated -within. his jurisdiction. Now, therefore, as test&-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

509

Michoud -et a]. r. Girod et al.

mentary executors of the late C. F. Girod, we do bind -ourselves,
by these presents, to protect and warrant said honorable judge
against all the troubles and difficulties which might be the c6onsequence of his thus selling the lands of the succession situated out
of this parish.
" In faith whereof, wehave signed these presents, to be by him
used as of right. Parish of Assumption, the 16th of February,
1814.
JN. FS. GIROD.
(Signed,)
JN. FS. GIROD, Executor."
On the i 8th of February, 1814, a sale took place, as evidenced
by the following paper :"State of Louisiana, Parish of Assumption, the eighteenth day of
February, in the year 1814.
"On the day and year aforewritten, upon the. request of the
testamentary executors of the late C. F. Girod, I, Fran?0is Corvaisier, judge of the said parish, did repair to the sugar-plantation
of the deceased, and we there proceeded to the sale and adjudication (as requested), of the property, both movable and immovable,
belonging to the succession, to wit :-I"
(Then follows an enumeration of plantations, tracts of land, and
personal property.)
"'N.
B. A certain lot of ground situated at Donaldsonville,
which, through error, was included in the original inventory, has
not been sold, because it does not belong to the succession, but to
one F'se Wiltz, a free woman of color. And the present sale
being concluded on the day and year aforewritten, we have closed
these presents, amounting to the total sum of eighty-four thousand
seven hundred and fifty-five dollars and forty cents, omissions and
errors of calculations excepted, And the witnesses, the last appraisers, and the parties interested, have signed,.before the judge
of the aforesaid parish of Assumption, on the 18th of February,.
1814.
JN. FS. GIROD, Testamentary Etecutor,
(Signed,)
for self, and by procuratio of his brother, .N'a's Girod.
ETIENNE BOUDREAUY, eitnest.
do.
JACQUES TERIOT,
do.
L. RICHE,
do.,
P. L. LAURET,
do.
FS. CORREJOLES,
do.
Ordinary mark of PIERRE CANCIEL,
do.
JUAN VIVES,
do.
J. BERN'DO DE DEVA,
CCBefore me,
F. CORVAISIER, Judge."
QQ*

510

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

On the same day, namely, the 18th of February, 1814, the following judicial adjudication of the property was made, being in the
nature of a deed :" State of Louisiana, Parish of Assumption, the 18th of February, 1814.
"At the request of the testamentary executors of the late C. F.
Girod, J. F. Corvaisier, judge of the -aforesaid parish and of the
Court of Probates, did repair to the sugar-plantation of said deceased, where, the customary formalities being complied with,.and
the sale having been announced by the public crier, I proceeded,
as requested, to sell at auction, and for cash, to the highest and last
bidder, on account of said succession, or those interested therein,
all the lands, slaves, and-other property situated in this parish and
county of Bayou Lafourche, to wit :- Thirteen tracts of land or
plantations, cultivated or otherwise, including thereon the sugarplantation [and] three small islands lying at the mouth of said
bayou ; also one hundred and seventeen slaves, employed on said
sugar-plantation, said slaves being of different ages and sexes, in
good health, sick, infirm, crippled, and such as they are or may be,
and no warranty being given to the purchaser against the redhibitory vices and maladies prescribed by law, said warranty being on
-the contrary absolutely and totally refused ; also a cotton-gin adjoining said sugar-plantation ; also a distillery in operation, with its
implements and appurtenances ; also all the horned cattle, mules,
horses, carts, and wagons ; also all the implements- of husbandry
of. said sugar-plantation ; as also all the furniture [and] old silver
plate ; also twenty-two hundred gallons of Tafra, in the distillery
aforesaid ; also fifty-five thousand pounds of brown sugar lying on
cisterns ; also sixty-three bales of cotton (nine of which are damaged), weighing together twenty-three thousand one hundred and
thirty pounds. All the above articles were sold separately, and
cried by the public crier, with the exception of the sugar-plantation,
which was sold, with the furniture thereof, as appears by the judicial sale, detailed and deposited in the clerk's office of the- said
parish of Assumption; and the whole, amounting together to the
sum of eighty-four thousand seven hundred and fifty-five dollars and
forty cents, was adjudicated for cash to Mr. Charles Saint Felix,
who is satisfied therewith, for having seen, visited, received, and
taken possession of same. And the aforesaid Nas. Girod and
Jn.-F. Girod, here present, declare, by the present act, that they
have received from the said Charles Saint Felix the aforesaid sum
of $ 84,755"40, for which acquittance is hereby given, and that
they quitclaim and release him, and his heirs and assigns, of and
from all claims and demands whatsoever.
"In testimony whereof, the aforesaid parties have signed the

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

511

Michoud et a]. v. Girod et al.

present judicial sale, the day and year first above written, in presence of the undersigned witnesses, and of the parish judge.
"Signed, per procuration of Nas. :Girod, JN. F. GIROD.
JN. F. GIROD.
SAINT FELIX.
T. COURRIE.
"Witnesses, - F. CORREJOLLEES.
" Before me,
J. CORVAISIER, Judge."
On the 23d of February, 1814, by a similar deed to the above,
Saint Felix conveyed the whole of the property to Nicholas Girod
and Jean F. Girod, describing it in the language above quoted, and
for the same consideration. The deed concludes in the following
language :"All which articles, the said Saint Feli does, by these presents,
retrocede to the said purchasers, Nas. Girod and Jean Francois
Girod, for themselves, their heirs and assigns, without any reservation or reclamation whatever, for the price and sum of eighty-four
thousand seven hundred and fifty-five dollars and forty cents, which
the said vendor acknowledges, by these presents, to have received, in
ready money, from the said purchasers, Nas. Girod and Jean Frs.
Girod, and for which the present sale will operate as an acquittal and
release against all and every person or persons whatever ;' the said
Saint Felix herein delaring, that he is not bound to furnish the said
purchasers with any other titles for the said lands and slaves, than
those which have been given and delivered to him at the judicial
sale aforesaid, and which he now delivers to said purchasers, who
acknowledge to have received them, and to be .,atisfied therewith.
Wherefore, the contracting parties agreeing both to these presehts,
have set their names to the same, the day and year aforewritten,
in the presence of the undersigned witnesses, and- of the parish
judge aforesaid.
NAS. GIROD, per procuration.
(Signed,)
SAINT FELIX.
JN. F. GIROD.
JN. F. GIROD.
" Witness, - (Signed,) J. COURRIE.
Fs.

CORREJOLLES."

On the 4th of March, 1814, the following petition was presented, and order given for the sale of the property in New Orleans.
"To the Honorable James PitotiJudge of the Court of Probates,
the petition of Nicolas and Jean Francois Girod, testamentary
executors of the late Claude Francois Girod, humbly showeth:
"1That, in conformity with the order rendered by thishonorable

512

SUJPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. r. Girod et al

court, they have caused an inventory to be made by the reger
of said court of all the property left by the deceased in this parish, and amounting, according, to the appraisement made thereof,to the sum of twenty thousand seven hundred dollars, behig the'
-amount of eight lots, and a piece of ground, situated in this city, at

the corner of St. Louis and Chartres Streetp, as the whole appears

from said inventory deposited in the clerk's office of said court.
Petitioners further-show, that the succession of their' late brother
Claude Frangois Girod is indebted in a sum.of sixt thousand dollars, or thereabouts, being the amount of the legacies and debts
left by the deceased, which it is necessary to pay without- delay.
Wherefore petitioners pray this honorable court to order that the
said piece of ground and eight lots be sold for cash, as also the
said house, which, belonging in common to the succession and one
of the petitioners, cannot be conveniently divided without loss or
inconvenience t6 the owners ; and petitioners further pray that the
present petition be served upon the attorney appointed- to represent
the- absent heirs, so that the law be complied with, and justice
will be done.
(Signed,)
N. GIROD, JMayor."

Copied from the original in English.
Order.
"Let Mr. C. R. Caune, attorney appointed by the court to
represent the absent heirs of said Claude Frangois Gircd be not'fied to show cause why the prayer of this petition shore not be
granted.
(Signed,)
JS. PITOT.
".New Orleans, .March 3d, 1814."
"As attorney representing the absent heirs of the said late
Claude Francois Girod, I have no objections to the petitioners'
demand.
(Signed,)
R. CAUNE, .Alttorney for absent heirs.
'24ew Orleans, .March4th, 1814."

-

Order.
"Let the sle be made as prayed for.
".New Orleans, .March 5th, 1814.
(Signed,)
JS. PITOT, Joudge."

On -the 9th of April, 1814, a sale was made of the property in
the city of New Orleans, in conformity with the above order,
which was inventoried onr the 26th of February, as appeared by
the following paper.
"And on this'ninth day of the month of April, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight, hundred and fourteen, and of the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

513

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

independence of the United States of America the thirty-eighth,
at the hour often, A. M., I, Jean Baptiste Marc Brierre, deputy
register of wills for the city and parish of New Orleans, did repair
-to suburb Saint Mary, for the purpose of selling to the highest and
last bidder the houses and lots belonging to the succession of the
late Claude Frangois Girod, and there being, we did find and
meet with Mr. Nicolas Girod, one of the testamentafy executors
of the deceased, and Charle§ Robert Caune, attorney at law, appointed by the court to represent the absent heirs. Whereupon,
in their presence, and in that of Prosper Prieur and Sebastian
Blondeau, witnesses hereto required, I did proclaim the said sale
in a loud-and audible voice, and on the following terms and conditions, to wit :cc"Cash."
(The paper then enumerated the lots of ground, and concluded

as follows.)
"And there remaining nothing ee to 'be sold belonging to said
succession, I, deputy register, aforesaid, closed and terminated
"the present process verbal. And after reading thereof, we ascertained the amoant of said sale to be twenty-seven thousand seven
hundred dollars, which sum was left by us in the hands of the said
Nicolas Girod, testamentary executor aforesaid, who acknowledges
the same, takes charge thereof, and has signed with the parties,
the witnesses, and me, deputy register, the day, month, and year
aforewritten.
(Signed,)
BLONDEAU.
PROSPER PRIEUR.
R. CAUNE, .fttorney.
N. GIROD, Testamentary xecutor.
BRIERRE, Deputy Register "
On the 28th of April, 1814, Laigne' conveyed to Nicholas Girod, as follows.

Sale of House and Lots from Simon Laignel to Aicholas Gied.
" Before. me, Michel de Armas, a notary public, residing in
New Orleans, State of Louisiana, United States of America, and
in the presence of the witnesses hereinafter named and undersigned,. personally appeared Mr. Simbn Laignel, merchant, residing in
suburb St. Mary, who has, by these presents, sold, transferred,
and conveyed, from this day and for ever, with no other warranty
than that of his own acts and deeds, unto Mr. Nicolas Girod, of
this city, merchant, here present and accepting purchaser for himself, his heirs and assisgs.
" 1st. Six lots of ground," &c., &c., enumerating the lots,
aqd concluding as follows :- To.have and to hold said property
VOL. iv.
65
",

514

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

unto the said purchaser, who may use, enjoy, and dispose of the
same, in full and complete ownership, by virtue hereof. The
property herein sold and described belong to the vendor, for having acquired the same at the public sale which the said Nic6las
Girod, as testamentary executor of the late Claude Frangois Girod, caused to be made on the 9th of April, instant, by the register of wills, of the property belonging to said Claude Franois
Girod's succession, as the whole appears by the act of sale confirmatory of the adjudication aforesaid, passed before the notary
undersigned on the 25th instant. By the certificate of the recorder
of mortgages in this city, bearing even date herewith, it appears
that there is no mortgage in the name of. the vendor on the property herein bargained and sold,
"The present sale is made for and in consideration of the total
sum of thirty-five thousand eight hundred dollars, which the said
vendor acknowledges to have received cash, before the signing
hereof, and out of. the presence of the notary and witnesses undersigned, from the purchaser, to whom he grants full and ample
acquittance and release of the same, renouncing the benefit of the
ex6eption, non nuinerata petunia, and the two years' delay which
the law accords to enforce said exception. ,Thus it was, &c.,
promising, obliging, renouncing, &c.
"Done and passed at New Orleans, in my office, m the presence of Messrs. Michel J. B. L. Fourcesy and Charles Robert
Caune, both witnesses hereto required and domiciled in this city
on the twenty-eighth of April, in the year eighteen hundred and
fourteen, and of the independence of America the thirty-eighth;
and the said appearers, notary, and witnesses, have signed these
presents, after reading thereof.
(Signed,)
N. GIROD,
SIMON LAIGNEL,
FOURCESY,
R. CAUNE,
MICH'L DE ARMAS, .Not. Pub."
The bill of the complainants in the court below also charged,
that the executors, in order to appropriate, wickedly and fraudulently, to their own use and benefit, the funds of the succession,
did, in their account of the 23d of May, 1817, place themselves
as creditors of said succession for a sum of nearly forty-nine thousand dollars, to wit, said Nicholas Girod for forty thousand four
hundred and eighteen dollars and nine cents, and said Jean FranSois Girod for eight thousand two hundred and fifty-three dollars
and twenty cents, although no sum was due to them.
The proceedings upon which this charge was founded are as
follows : -

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

515

Michofd et al v. Giroa et a].

"STATE oF LouistrmA:
"NCHOLAs

J. F.

GIRPD,

GIROD

Executor of C. F.

o.604.

Parishcourt.

Girod, and R. C. Caune, &c.
"Petition, filed .November 26th, 1814.
"To the Honorable James Pitot, Judge of the Parish Court for
the Parish and City of New Orleans.
"The petition of Nicolas Girod, of the said city and parish,
merchant, showeth, that Claude Francis Girod, of Lafourche, was
indebted to your petitioner in a 1rge sum of Inoney, previous
to his decease ; -that. hereto annexed is a detailed account of
the mohey due by his estate, at tbiq time, to your petitioner ;
which account, amouiting to the sum of forty thousand five hundred and seventy-seven dollars and twenty cents, principal [and]
interest, the executors of the said Claude F. Girod has refused to
pay, though thereto frequently required. Wherefore your petitioner prays, that John.Francis Girod, now residing in the city of New
Orleans aforesaid, one of the executors of the said Claude F.
Girod, and R. C. Caune, the attorney appointed to represent the
interest of the absent heirs, may be cited to appear and answer
this petition.
"And your petitioner further prays, that they may be condemned to pay your petitioner the above sum of $40,577'20, with
interest and costs.
"c And your petitioner further prays all -such other relief as
the case may require, and to justice and equity may appertain.
"Received the annexed document, New Orleans, September
9th, 1816.
(Signed,)
-N. GIROD.
"A copy thereof being annexed to the dward of the arbitrators
in the premises.
c Citation.
"Mr. J. F. Girod, Executor of C. F. Girod, and C. R. Caune:
"You are hereby summoned to comply with the prayer of the
annexed petition, or to file your answer thereto in writing with the
clerk of the parish of Orleans, at his office at New Orleans, in ten
days after the service hereof; and if you fail herein, judgment will
be given against you by default.
"1Witness the Honorable James Pitot, judge of the said court,
this 26th day of November, in the year of our Lord 181
(Signed,)
SAM. P. MOORE, Deputy Clerk.
"

" Sheriff's Return.
Served a copy of petition and citation on each [of]

16

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al.

..

Girod et al.

defendants, November 28th, 1814 ; returned November .8th,
1814.
J. H. HOLLAND, Deputy Sheri.
" ./cnswer of . F. Girod,filed N'ovember 29th, 1814.
" To the Honorable James Pitot, Judge of the Court for the Parish and City of New Orleans, the answer of Jean F. Girod$
one of the testamentary exed.5,ors of the late C. F. Girod,
to the petition of Nicholas Girod, humbly showeth :
" That all and singular the items in the acqounts presented by
said Nicholas Girod, in his said petition, must be proved, to justify
his claim against the succession of C. F. Girod, and for that purpose this.respondent prays this honorable court to order what shall
veeui -the best for the common interest of parties, and -moreover to
be hence dismissed with costs. And, &c.
(Signed,)
J.F. GIROD, Bx., Jr.
" Answer of R, Cata, filed .N'ovesmber 29th, 1814.
To the Honorable James Pitot, Judge of tle Parish Court, the,
answer of C. R. Caune, in his capacity of attorney-representing the absent heirs of the late C. F. Girod, to the petition presented by Nicholas Girod, against the estate of the
late aforesaid C. F. Girod:
"Your respondent denies all facts mentioned in the plaintiff's
titon, and he says that the plaintiff must be proven his claim
fore court, and prays the court to dismiss him, with costs of the
suit ; in duty bound, your petitioner shall ever pray.
(Signed,)
R. CAUNE, q8torney.
'

Order appointing ~. btrators, Parish Court for the Parit and
City of New Orleans, .November 27th, 1814.
"Present : the Honorable James Pitot.
,NIcOLAs GIROD V. J. F. GIROb, Ex. of C. F. Girod, and
C. R. Caune, attorney for the absent heirs.
" Upon motion of Alfred Hennen, esquire, of counsel for the
plaintiff it is ordererd that F. Percy and F. M. Rouzan be appointed arbitrators in this case, to decide on the claim of the plaintifft, and in ease of their not .agreeing, that the court appoint a third
person as umpire. I do hereby certify the above.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
the seal of the said court at the city of New Orleans, the day and
year first above written, ad of the independence of the United
States the thirty-ninth.
(Signed;)
SAM. P. MOORE, Deputy Clerk (swearing).
"

"Personally appeared before me, one of the justices of the
peace in and fqr the city and parish of New Orleaifs, Ferdinand

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

517

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

Percy et F. M. Rouzan, of this city, who were duly sworn according to 12w as arbitrators as above named, that they will examine the accounts between the parties.with impartiality, and give the
report according to law.
F. MEFFER ROUZAN.
(Signed,)
F. PERCY, Jun.
- "USubscribed and sworn to before me, at New Orleans, the 10th
day of December, 1814.
(Signed,)
J. L. LAPANSE, Jtusice of thIe Peace.
"1The undersigned arbitrators, appointed by a decree of the
honorable the court of the city of New Orleans, under date of the
25th of November last, to verify and examine the accounts and
demands of Nicolas Girod, a merchant residing in New Orleans,
against the succession" of the late Claude Frangois Girod, his
brother, who was a resident -of the parish of Lafourche, in this
State, said succession being represented by Jean Franjois Girod,
one of the testamentary executors thereof, and C. R. Caune, attorney for the absent heirs, and to make a report thereon to said
honorable court, do declare, under the sanctity of the oath they
hale taken, on the t&nthof ]Decembhr instant, and which is hereto
annexed, that after hearing the parties interested in this affair, and
the witnesses by them introduced, after being sworn by John L.
*Laparge, a justice of the peae in this city, they have proceeded
to the examination, apd verification of the documents, titles, accounts, and books exhibited to them by the parties interested in the
manner following, to wit: - First, they have examined the sworn
account produced by Nicolas Girod, on the 25th of November last,
which consists of thirteen items, which the arbitrators have verified
in the manner following.
The first item, amounting in capital to $ 1,602 for 801
hides, which the said Nicolas had left in the stores
of Claude Franqois Girod, is established by 'the
declaration of Jean Franois Girod, who affirms
positively that the said 801 hides had been left in
the stores of said Claude Francois Girod, who disposed of the same for his private. account; the said
Jean Francois Girod declares likewise, that two
dollars was the price for hides in 1794, and that he
himself had purchased some at that price for his
own account
..
.
.
.
.
.
1,602 00
The second item, amounting in capital to $4-I,50, is
the produce of an account which A-fr. Pierre Bousignes, then clerk of the house of Claude F. Girod, had collected and paid in the hands of said
Claude F. Girod, as making part of the funds

$

VOL. IV.

TR

518

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

belonging to Nicolas Girod. Mr. Bousignes declared under oath, that he does not remember the
precise amount of that sum, but that it must have
been something like fifteen hundred dollars ; he recollects that that account was paid in before the fire
of 1794, and that several cash payments for, the"
private account of C. F. Girod were mae-out
. $1,500 00
of the funds belonging to said Nicolas Girod.
The third item, amounting in capital to $ 6,222"18, proceeds from the following remittances and, effects, to
wit: Jean Francois Girod paid in specie to Claude
Francois Girod, Nicolas Girod'stintrest, say two
thirds in a shipment of furs made in March, 1795,
on board the brig Jane, bound to Philadelphia, and
amounting to $ 3,593-37, as appears from a copybook or register, marked A, No. 40, writtep by
Guilhempan, and signed by the said Claude Frangois Girod, which book or register has been produced by 'the said-Jean Francois Girod, who further declared, that the said Claude Francois Girod
was at that time authorized to settle the accounts of
Nicolas Girod with this deponent, and that the said
C. F. Girod has never rendered to Nicolas Girod
.
.
2,395 63
.
.
an account of this transaction
For so much paid by Jean Francois Girod to said
Claude Francois Girod, for Nicolas's interest, say
two thirds in another shipment of furs made' in
April, 1795, on board the brig L'Archedimoi, bound
to Philadelphia, as appears from the aforementioned
.
.
432 75
copy-book or register, marked A, No. 40.
For the amount of a barrel of wine, with which the private account of said C. F. Girod was debited on
the 17th of October, 1795, but never since credited
with, as appears from the aforementioned copy-book
5000
or register,
Amnount of a bill of exchange drawn by Claude Francois Girod, on the 7th of April, 1796, payable eight
days after sight, at New York, to his brother, Nicolas Girod, for $2,000, which he had received from
Jean Franyois Girod, for $ 2,000, which he had received from Jean Franfois Girod; said bill has
never been accepted of paid, as appears from the
bill itself, which has been exhibited to us by said
00
.
.
.2000
.
Nicolas Girod, .
For Eh half of the amount of twenty-six barrels of
gunpowder, shipped in the month of April, 1796, on
board the ship The Two Friends, bound to New

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

59

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

York, and consigned to Th. Thebane, by Jean
Frangois Girod, on joint account with Nicolas Girod.
The proceeds whereof, amounting to $ 1,193"75,
as appears from the copy-book aforesaid, were received,..as also the profits of said Th. Thebane by
the said Claude Francois Girod, who never accounted for them to the parties intere ted. This being
established by the declaration of said Jn. F. Girod,
.
.
.
.
.
. ..
Amount of sundry merchandises belonging to Nicolas
Girod, and by Jean Franois Girod ifitrusted to
Claude -Francois Girod, as appears from the copybook aforesaid, which was exhibited to us by said
Jean Fran.is Girod, who declared that Claude
Francois. Girod had never accounted for the merchandise to said Nicolas Girod, .
.
.
.
Amount of sundry debts which Claude Francois Girod
had undertaken to collect for account of Nicolas
Girod, as appears from the statement produced by,
Jean Franois Girod, and corroborated by the afore-said copy-book
or register A,
.
.
.
.
Amount of ta barrel of wine, sold to Mr. de Vangine,
by the said Jn. Frangois Girod, which was paid to
said Claude Frangois Girod, as is proven by a
written declaration of said Jn. F. Girod in said copybook or register,
.
.
...
The 4th item, amounting in capital to $ 186, is established by the declaration of Jean Francois Girod,
who affirms that it is within his *knowledge that the
articlest composing said item were delivered- to
Claude Francois Girod, who shippbd them for H vana on his private-account,
.
The 5th item, amounting in capital to $ 651"50, consists of the net proceeds of the sale maide by Claude
Frs. Girod of 2 bales of blue drilling, shipped for
New York in 1801, on board of the ship South Carolina, Stick, master, by Thibaut, for account of
Nicolas Girod, and consigned to Claude F'ois Girod, as appears from book No. 1, which was exhibited to the arbitrators, who ascertained that. it was in
the handwriting of Guilhempan, then the clerk and
agent of C. F. Girod,
.
.
.
The 6ih item, amounting in capital to $ 229"06, consists likewise of the net proceeds of the sale of a
cask of manna, shipped by Nicolas Girod when in
New York, in 1797, on board of schooner Despatch,
Clark, master, to the consignment of said Claude

$ 596 87

"210 06

476 87

60 00

186 00

651 50

SJPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et aL

Frangois Girod, as the whole was made to appear
by copy-book No. 1, mentioned in the foregoing article,
•$
The 7th item, amounting in capital to $ 379"12, consists of a lot of merchandise, consigned by Jean
Franois Girod to Claude Franois Girod, at the
time of said J'n F. Girod's departure for the United States in 1797, which said merchandises belonged to said Nicolas Girod, ahd were sold by said
Claude Fran~ois Girod, as appears from a waste or
copy-book, in the handwriting of said Guilhempan
marked B, No. 42, and prdduced by said Jean
Fran ois Girod,
.
The 8th item, amounting in capital to $813"82, consists of-the proceeds of the sale made by Claude
Fra. of divers merchandises belonging to Nicolas
Girod, which the latter had left in the hands of Jean
Francois Girod, who delivered them in kind to
Claude Franqois Girod at the time of said J. F. Girod's departure for the United States, in 1797 ; said
merchandises are enumerated in a copy or wavtebook in 'the handwriting of the late Guilhempan,
marked B, No. 41, and likewise produced by the
parties interested,
.
.
.
.
.
.
The 9th item, amounting in capital to $ 899, consists
of the net proceeds of twelve barrels of wine
shipped by Nicolas Girod when in New York, 1797,
on board the brig Success, Dinsmore, master, to the
consignment of Claude Franuois Girod, who sold the
same, as was shown by the ales-book No. 1, afQresaid, .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
The 10th item, amounting in capital to $ 489,63, consists also of the net proceeds of sale made by Claude
Fois Girod, of 498 sextains of cards shipped by
N'as Girod when in New York, in 1797, on board of
the brig Success, Rathbone, master, to the consignment of said Claude F'ois. Girod, as was shown by
the sales-book No. 1, aforesaid, .
.
..
The 11th item, amounting in capital to $ 991-38, con.
sists also of the net proceeds of the sale made by
C. F. Girod of 762 sextains of cards, shipped in
1795 by Nicolas Girod, then in New York, for his
account and risks, on board the schooner Active,
Wilcox, master, and consigned to said Claude Frs.
Girod, as appears from the sales-book No. 1, aforesaid,
.

to-i19h item, amounting ih capital to the sum af

229 06

79 12

813 82

899 00

489 63

991 38

JANUARY TERM,, 1846.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

13,901"94, consists of divers lots of merchandises
and, jewelry belonging to N. Girod, which the said
Claude Fran ois Girod. sent into* the provinces of
the interior, and there sold, or caused to be sold.
The accounts of those sales were never settled between Claude Francois and Nicolas Girod, which
fact is attested by the declaration of Jean Franjois
Girod, and several other witnesses, who testify that
Claude Frs. Girod has constantly avoided to render
said account. The several articles corposing the
present item are enumerated and detailed in the
aforementioned sales-book No. 1, which the arbitrators have ascertained to be in the handwriting of
Guilhempan,
.
.
.$.
.
'131901 94
The 13th item, amounting in capital to $ 6,574-30,
consists of the balance of an account between Nicolas and Claude F. Girod, adjusted on 1st August,
1813, by Mr. Phillippon, jr., who was authorized
for that purpose by the said Claude F. Girod.
The arbitrators, after examining that account and
the one preceding it, are satisfied that the articles
mentioned in said accounts are foreign to the affairs
which existed between the said Nicola and Claude
Frs. Girod,
.
.
.
.
.
.
6,574 30
$ 34,439
Secondly.- The arbitrators have examined and verified the account of-interests also making part of the
claims of said Nicolas Girod, as follows, viz. -Interests on $ 1,602, amount of the first item of the
account produced by Nicolas Girod, from November, 1794, to the date, hereof, making, in all, 20
years, at 6 per. cent. per annum,
.$1,922
Interests on $ 1,500, amount of the 2d, irem, .from the
year 1794 to the date hereof, that is, 20 years, at 6
per cent. per annum,
.
.
•
• 1,800
Ditto, on $ 6,222"18, amount of the 3d item; the arbitrators have examined the eight parts whereof this
item is composed, and found that the interests calculated on each part amounted to $ 7,087"92,
wherefore they have been of opinion to leave the
item as it was presented,
•
.
.. 6,657
Ditto, on the $ 186, amount of the 4th item, from
January, 1797, to this day, making 17 years, 10
months, at 6 per cent. per annum,
.
I .
199
Ditto, on $651"50, amount of the 5th item. The arbitrators have reduced the amount claimed4 ' to vVOL. IV.
66
Zi *

93

40
00

6i
02

a12

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et a).

664"02, to $ 504"91, because the interests ought
to have been calculated only from the 1st of January, 1802, when the 2 bhles of drilling shipped by
Thibaut, were sold ; - this gives 12 years and I1
months, at 0 per cent. per annum,
.
. . $504
Ditto, on $229"06, amount of the 6th item. The arbitrators have verified the calculation, which they
have found correct,
.
.
233
Ditto, on $ 379"12, amount of the 7th item. The
calculation was verified, and found correct, .
382
Ditto, on $813"82, amount of the 8th item. The
calculation was verified, and found correct,
.
817
Ditto, on $ 899, amount of the 9th item. The calculation was examined, and found correct, .
.
876
Ditto, on $489"63, amount of the 10th item; after
examination, found correct,
.
.
477
Interests on $ 991-38, amount of the Ilth item ; examined, and found correct,
.
966
Ditto, on $ 13,901"94, amount of the 12th item ; examined, and found correct,
.
.
. 12,998
Ditto, on $ 6,574"30, amount of the "1thand last item
of the account presented 'byNicolas Girod. The
arbitrators, after examining the calculation, found
that it fell short of what it ought to have been, but
as the difference is trifling, and in favor of the heirs,
they left the item as it was presented, .
493

91
58
78
90
52
75
22'
30

06

Capital and interests due, after examination,
..
$62,769 98
The arbitrators next proceeded to verify and examine
the sums with which the said Nicolas Girod has
credited the account he has produced, which sums
amount, in capital and int6rests, to $22,351"89,
and were found correct,
..
.
.
.
. 22,351 89
Balance in favor of Nicolas Girod,

.

40,418 09

" So that the balance in favor of Nicolas Girod is reduced to

$40,418"09 instead of $40,579"20, as claimed in his account,

this difference being produced by the reduction made on the interests of the 5th item of said account. The arbitrators, after having examined and heard the declarations of Messrs. Pre. Bousignes, M. Pacaud, Joseph Guillot, and Jean Frangois Girod, witnesses introduced by the parties, and sworn by John S. Lapauze,
a justice of the peace, who positively assert that Claude Franrois
Girod has always refused to settle his accounts with his brother,
Nicolas Girod; and after a scrupulous, examination of the books,
accounts, titles, and other documents which were produced in this

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

5W

Michoud at al. v. Girod et al.

affair, are of opinion that the sum 6f forty thousand fouri hundred
and eighteen dollars and nine cents, claimed by said Nicolas Girod, is lawfully due to him. In faith whereof, we have signed the
present award, that it may have its legal effect given to it.
"New Orleans, this fourteenth day of the month of December,
eighteen hundred and fourteen.
F. MEFFRE ROUZAN,
(Signed,)
F. PERCY, JUNr."
" On this, the twelfth day of the month of Decemberi 1814, in
the thirty-ninth year of the independence of the United States of
America, before Yue, one of the justices of the peace for the city
and parish of New Orleans, personally appeared, as requested by
the parties, Mr. Joseph Guillot, a witness in the case of Nicolas
Girod v. Jean Francois Girod, one of the testamentary executors
of the late Claude Francois Girod, and Charles Robert Caune,
attorney for the absent heirs, who, being duly sworn according to
law, declared and said, that he ha always been a friend of the
Girods, and that some time in the month of July, 1813, the late
Claude Franois Girod, being in town, came to deponent's house,
and requested him to call uiion him in his room, saying that he had
something to confide to him ; and that having repaired thither,
said Claude Francois Girod communicated his intentions of preventing all difficulties after his death, saying that he was desirous
to settle with his brother Nicolas, that he had been to church,
where he had knelt before the Holy Virgin, beseeching her to assist him in terminating his affairs with his said brother Nicolas ;
deponent, knowing nearly all their affairs, asked him in what manner he intended to settle them ; then the said Claude *Fran~ois
Girod toldihim, - Here are my propositions ; I will sell my house
in St. Louis Street for cash to my said brother Nicolas, with a
view to settle with him, reserving, for the term of my natural life,
the use of one of the back rooms of said house ; and if there be
any balance remaining due to him, he will grant me a delay to pay
the same ; - and he requested deponent to submit those propositions
to Nicolas Girod's consideration, which deponent did ; but the
said Nicolas Girod. answered him surely, No ; and added, that he
requested deponent not to interfere in that affair, saying that he
himself had made proposal§ to Claude Francois Girod, his
brother.
"Deponent further says, that he.knows well that said affairs between Nicolas and Claude Francois Girod were never settled;
and he has signed with us.
JN. FRS. GIROD, Test'y Executor.
Signed,)
JOSH. GUILLOT.
N. GIROD.
R. CAUNE, .Attorneyfor absent heirs.

524

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et a]. v. Girod et al.

"9Sworn to and subscribed before me, at New Orleans, this
12th day of December, 1814.
(Signed,)
JH. L. LAPANGE, Justice of the Peace."
Order, 15th December, 1814.
"NICHOLAS

GIROD,

JE:AN FRAW OlS GIROD, EX.OfC.F.
Girod, and C. R. CAUNE, Att'y, &c.

0

"Upon motion of Alfred Hennen, Esq., counsel for the plaintiff, and upon reading .and filing the report of the arbitrators appointed in this case, it 'is ordered, that the defendants do show
cause on Saturday next, the 17th instant, if any they have or can,
why the said report should not be homologated, and made the
judgment of this court in the premises."
Sheriff's Return on Copy of the above Order.
"Served copy of 'the within order on each of the defendants,
December 15th, 1814.
(Signed,)
J. H. HOLLAND, Deputy Sheriif."
Order and Judgment.
"It is ordered, that the report of the arbitrators be homologated, and made the judgment of the court in this case, and that the
said defendants do pay to plaintiff, in conformity to the said
award, the sum of forty thousand four hundred and eighteen dollars and nine cents, with costs of suit to be taxed.
",'ew Orleans, May 6th, 1815.
(Signed,)
J. PITOT, Judge."
"I do hereby certify this to be a true copy of all the records,
documents, and proceedings had in this case. Clerk's
[SEAL.] office of the Parish Court, New Orleans, January 10th,
1844.
(Signed,)
ALFRED BODIN, Deputy Clerk."
In the preceding March, Jean Fran ois Girod had brought in
an account against the succession, and passed it through a similar
process, which resulted in a judgment in his favor for the sum of
$8,253"20.
The bill of the complainants in the court below then charged, that
nearly all the coheirs, having full faith and confidence in the honesty and integrity of Nicholas and Jean Franois Girod, did intrust
them with their powers of attorney, authorizing them to represent
_tae interests of such coheirs in the settlement of the succession ;
in virtue of which the executors approved the account rendered by
thenrelves. And that afterwards, by concealment of facts which
they knew to exist, and were bound, as agents, to communicate, the

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

525

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

said executors obtained from some of them an acquittance or
transfer of all claims against the succession.
The bill then recited that Nicholas Girod Had died,in possession
of all the real estate of Claude Francois Gikod except some parts
which were mentioned as having been sold, all of which property
thus remaining with Nicholas Girod the complainants claimed as
the original coheirs of Claude Frangois Girod, and also an account
of the rents and profits. All claim against the other executor,
Jean Franois Girod, was released.
Amongst the matters introduced in evidence was the following
letter, which is inserted because it is referred to in the opinion of
the court; and was sent by Girod at the same time that he obtained from his two sisters the receipts which are mentioned in another part of this statement.
" ew Orleans, 27th May,.-1847.
"My sister Quetend - To-morrow, our brother Jean Francois
embarks for Havre ; from thence he will proceed home, for the
purpose of delivering to each one of you what is coming to him
from the succession of our late brother, Claude Francois. I assure
ybu, that if I had not been anxious to protect the honor of this brother, every thing would have been absorbed in settlement of accounts with me, and by other debts ; besides, whether you have it
now or later, the greater part cannot escape you ; - this is to be
understood of those who shall not cease to merit our friendship and
esteem. Beware not to imitate the example of Jacques, who has
for ever lost our regard by his iniquities toward our whole family.
Hereafter, when I shall have, in some measure, recovered from my
losses by different bankrupts, I will send you some assistance from
time to time. At present J. F. has orders to regulate his conduct
towards you all by your conduct towards him. Farewell.
"I cordially embrace you all.
"Your brother and friend,
N. GIROD.
(Signed,)
"I have not time to write to you more at length, having much
to attend to, before the departure of my brother."
The original is indorsed :"Recorded in consular book G, page 94.
"Paris, 22d January, 1844.
(Signed,)
LORENZO DRAPEZI [sEAL.]
Consul United States."
Proved and aidmitted in evidence,. April 29th, 1844.
On the 19th of January, 1830, Jean Frangois Girod executed
to his brother and co-executor, Nicholas, the following deed.
"On this nineteenth diay of the month of January, of the year

-

526

SUPREME

COURT.

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

eighteen hundred and thirty, and of the independence of the United
States of America the fifty-fourth, before me, Louis T. Caire,
a notary public in and for the parish and city of New Orleans, duly
commissioned and sworn, and in the presence of the witnesses
hereinafter named and undersigned, personally appeared Mr. Jean
Francois Girod, junior, residing at Paris, in the kingdom of France,
and now in this city, herein acting for himself and in his own right, of
the one part, and Mr. Nicolas Girod, his brother, residing in this city,
and herein acting for himself, and in his own right, of the other part,
who declared that they own, in common, for a moiety each, several
landed properties, and, among others, a sugar-plantation, situated
on Bayou Lafourche, parish of Assumption, in this State, which
they have for several years cultivated as partners, the said Nicolas
Girod having the exclusive administration of the same, and being
clothed with the necessary powers to that effect ; but that from the
date hereof the partnership between them is amicably dissolved,
by consent of both parties.
"1And the said Jean Franois Girod moreover declared that.
sells, abandons, transfers,- and sets over, without any other warranty
than that arising of his personal acts and deeds, but with substitutibn and subrogation to all the warranties which have been given to
them by their original vendors, unto the said Nicolas Girod, his
brother, here present, and accepting purchaser, for himself, his
heirs and assigns :"1 . The undivided moiety of a sugar-plantation, seven leagues
distant from the River Mississippi, situate on Bayou Lafourche, in
the parish of Assumption, as it now is, or may be, together with the
undivided moiety of the improvements, slaves, animals, ameliorations, implements of husbandry, and all other 6biects or things whatever appertaining thereto.
"12. The tlndivided moiety of all the lands belonging to them in
common, and situated on Bayou Lafourche.
3. The undivided moiety of three islands lying atthe mouth of
said Bayou, and known as Timballier, Brois, and Caillon islands.
"1The whole of which had been acquired, on joint account, by the
said appearers, by purchase from the late Joseph St. Felix, as per
act executed before F. Courvaisier, judge of the aforesaid parish
of Assumption, on the eighteenth of February, eighteen hundred
and fourteen, the said St. Felix had purchased the same at the
judicial sale of the property belonging to the succession of the late
Claude Francois Girod, who in his lifetime had acquired the same
by purchase from divers persons ; the said purchaser acknowledging
that he is fully satisfied with the said titles, and declaring that he is
well acquainted with the said plantation, lands, animals, slaves, and
improvements, which are the subject-matter of this act, and Tequires
nothing further.
"But it is well understood and agreed upon, by and between the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

521

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

parties heret6, that the sugar and molasses now on said plantation
and in the sugar-house are not' included in this sale, and that the
net produce thereof shall be equally divided between the parties.
"And the said Jean Frangois Girod moreover declared, that he
also transfers and abandons, unto the said Nicolas Girod, his brother, all and singular the debts due to said plantation, as also all
such sum or sums as now are, or may hereafter be, due to said partnership or community, under what title, and for what reason or
reasons soever, hereby giving unto his said brother full power and
authority .to sue for and enforce the payment thereof, but without
recourse against the transferer.
" The present sale and transfer of debts are made and accepted
by the contracting parties for and in consideration of the price and
sum of seventeen -thousand dollars, in payment whereof the said
purchaser, Nicolas Girod, has presently subscribed to the order of
the said Jean Fran~ois Girod, his brother, three promissory notes,
each for a like' sum of twenty-three thousand three hundred and
thirty-three dollars thirty-three and one-third cents, the first payable
on the first of March, eighteen hundred and thirty-one, the second
on the first of March, eighteen hundred and thirty-two, and the
third on the first of March, eighteen hundred and thirty-three, with
power and faculty, however, to postpone the payment of said notes,
or of parts thereof, from year to year, by paying to the said Jean
Fran~ois Girod, or to the holder of the nbtes the payment whereof shall have been postponed, a yearly interest, at the rate of eight
er centum per annum, until final payment; which said notes, after
being marked ne varietur by the notary undersigned, to identify
them herewith, were handed over to the said Girod, who acknowl-edges the rece pt thereof, and gives full and ample acquittance
for the same.
" By means of the foregoing, but provided the aforesaid notes be
paid, the said Jean Franois Girod transfers and abandons unto the
said Nicolas Girod all the rights of ownership whatever which he
had, has, or may have, in and to the plantation, lands, slaves, animals, implements of husbandry, in a word, in and to all the property which they owned in common, wishing that the said Nicolas
Girod be seize,: of the same, and may enjoy, use, and dispose
thereof, as of things to him well and lawfully belonging, from, this
day and for ever.
"And the said appearers have furthermore declared, that by act
before G. R Stringer, a notary in this city, bearing date the
fifteenth of May, eighteen hundred and twenty-nine, Mr. Nicolas
Girod, acting for himself, and in the name and with the consent of
his brother, sold to Messrs. Abner Robinson and Benjamin Balb
lard a tract of land situated in the parish of Assumption, and belonging to the community aforesaid, for the price of fifteen thousand'
dollats, five thousand whereof were paid cssh, and converted to

528

S11PREME COURT.
Micioud et al. v. Girod et al:

the use of said sugar-plantation and other -property ; that the t n
thousand dollars payable at one, two, and three'years from the date
of the act aforesaid belong to them for a moiety each, but that the
said Jean Francois Girod assigns to' Nicolgs-Girod his share of
five thousand dollars in said debt, on condition that the latter shall
credit his running account with a sum of twenty-five hundred dollars,-as for money had and received, and without recourse to the
assignor, who moreover transfers to said-Nicolas Girod, without
exception or reservation any, all the rights, actions, privileges, and
mortgages accessory to the aforesaid debt of five thousand dollars,
being the transferer's share in the price of the sale aforesaid.
"And the notary undersigned having made known to the parties
hereto article 3,328 of the new civil code of Louisiana, which reads
as follow : -- Every notary who shall pass an act of .sale, mortgage, or donation, of an immovable or slave, shall be bound to obtain from the office of mortgages of the place where the immovable is situated, or where the seller, debtor, or donor has his
domicile, if it be of a slave, a certificate declaring the privileges or
mortgages, which may bd inscribed on the object of the contract,
and to mention them in his act, under penalty of damages towards
the party who, may suff r by his neglect in that respect,' they, the
said parties, declared, that, as tenants in common, they are fully
aware of the state of things in relation to the immovables and slaves,
object of this sale, and that they do hereby, jointly and separately,
relieve and free the notary undersigned from all liability 9n that
subject.
"Done and passed in my office, at New Orleans, the day, month,
and year first above written, in the presence of Messrs. Charles
Darcantel and Jose Antonio Bermudez, witnesses hereto required,
and domiciled in this city, who have signed with the said appearers
and me, notary, after reading hereof.

(Signed,)

JN. FS. GIROD.

N. GIROD.
CHARLES DARCANTEL.
J. ANTONIO BERMUDEZ.
LOUIS T. CAIRE, .Notary Public."
About the Ist of September, 1840, Nicholas Girod died, in
Niw Orleans, leaving the following will :"Will of JNicolas Girod. - Filed 30th January, 1841.
"XNe varietur. New Orleans, 30th January, 1841.
(Signed,)
J. BERMUDEZ, Judge.
A due bill to the Mayor of New Orleans, for the
sum of $ 10G,000"00, to be employed in the
construction of a building called by the name of
IN.- Girod,' in the parish of Orleans, to receive

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Michoud

5M9

et al. e. Girod et al.

and come to the relief of the French orphans inhabiting the State of Louisiana,
.
.
. $ 100,000 00
A due bill to the troasurer of the Charity Hospital, $ 30,000 00
A due bill to the president of the Catholic Asylum,
30,000 00
No. 4. A due bill to Mrs. Bouvard, born PoideSbard
of Bordeaux,
5.
Do.
Mr. Vollier
Poidebard, at. 100,000 00
30,000 00
100,000 00
50,000 00
8.
50,000 00
9.
30,000 00
10.
20,000 00
11.
40,000 00
12.
15,000 00
13.
.
15,000 00
14.
20,000.00
15.
20,000 00
16.
.
20,000 00
17.
.
20,000 00
18.
20,000 00
$710,000 00
"I certify that the eighteen due bills, above mentioned, are, and
constitute, my sole and last will.
"New Orleans, the 23d of December, 1837.
(Signed,)
N. GIROD."
6.
7.

Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.

Chamberry, .
.
Mr. Joseph Girod, .
Mr. G. Montamat,
Mr. A. Michoud,
.
Mr. F. Grima, .
.
Mr. Dejan, senior, .
Mr. D. Prieur,
.
Mr. Chs. Claiborne,.
Mr. M'ville Marigny,
Mrs. Widow Sabatier,
Mr. A. Fournier,
.
Mr. E. Rivolet,
.
Mr. E. Mazureau,
.
Mr. C. Gurlie,.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

The following is a specimen of one of these due bils "Good for the sum of fifty thousand dollars, payable to Mr. A.
Michoud, at the settlement of my estate.
"$ 50,000. No. 8.
(Signed,)
N. GIROD."
All these legatees were made defendants to the bill.
In the course of the suit an injunction was issued against Antoine
Michoud, the executor of Nicholas Girod, to prevent him from
making any payment or distribution of tbhfunds received or to be
received.
The defendants all answered; the principal answer being that of
the legatees. They denied that Claude Francois Girod enumerated in his will and codicil all the debts due by him, but averted
that he owed other and much larger debts ; insited that the authorization granted to the executors by the will, for the sale of the
property, was legal ; that no law of Louisiana, then existing, contained a provision by which a judge ex officio auctioneer was
rendered inmcmpetent, any more than any other auctioneer in the
State, to sell any property whatsoever, situated within or without.
the limits of his jurisdiction; averred thati as no complaint was
VOL. Iv.
67
9s

SUPXR9ElE C*OVTJT.

530

Michoud et al. v. Giro'd et i.

made of the price of the property so sold by the.judge; the circumstance that a portion of the property was beyond his jurisdicion was of no consequence, and the price thereof must be regarded
as fair, and the sale as having been duly made ; admitted the sales
of property to St. Felix and Laignel, but denied that any retrocession of the property to the executors ever took place, inasmuch
as no retrocession could take place between the parties, unless the
executors had been previously the sole and exclusive owners of the
property ; denied that any fraud or breach of trust was committed
by the executors.
The respondents, in their answer, also admitted that the executors bad placed themselves as creditors, in their account of the
succession, but averred that they had a right lawfully and justly to
do so ; that Nicholas Girod'was creditor by virtue of a final judgment of a competent tribunal, namely, the Parish Court of the Parish
and City of New Orleans, rendered on the 6th of May, 1816 ; they
further aver, that. this judgment has, for upwards of twenty-six
years past, acquired the force of res adjudicata, and cannot be
disturbed; -that the account presented by the executors was duly
homologated by the Court of Probates,'and that judgment of homologation has- also acquired the force of res adjudicata. The
respondents also deny that the executors, in placing themselves as
creditors of the succession in their account, and in ratifying that
account under the power of attorney intrusted to them by their
coheirs, abused the trust and betrayed .the interest confided to
them for their own advantage, and to the wrong and injury of their
constituents.
The respondents further denied, that Nicholas Girod, by means
of false and fraudulent representations, or concealment, had induced
the complainants to sign acquittances; averred that they were signed
freely, after being well informed of all the circumstances; that
Hyppolite Pargoud, the son of Madame Pargoud, had been in New
Orleans, &c., &c.

The respondents inserted in- their answer a number of family
letters, from which they inferred that Nicholas Girod was a charitable man, and had -constantly been the supporter of his distant
relations, and concluded by pleading prescription.
To these answers there was a general replication.
In the progress of the suit the following admissions -were filed by
the respective parties :-

Aidmissions of Plaintiffs.
"PARGOUD

V. MICHOUD.

"1. Jean Francois Girod, senior, died, leaving a will in favor of
Jean Franqois Girod, junior, of Paris, and the share of the- complainants, M'mes Pargoud and Adam, in the estate of Claude Francois Girod remained as it previously was, to wit, one eighth.

JANUARY TERiM, 1846.

.

M

Michoud et al. v. Girpd et al.

"2. The complainants will contest no portions of the account
rendered by the testamentary executors of C. F. Girod to the Court
of Probates in 1817, except the individual claims of the said two
executors, and the judgments bbtained on them. " 3. The heirs of Claude Francois Girod, with the exception'of
Nicolas GOrd and Jean Francois Girod, junior, resided ,in Europe.
"14. All the legatees of Claude Fran~ois Girod resided in Europe,
except the Parish Church of Assumption, Frangoise 'Kiltz, Fran,oie, the daughter of Rosette Celan) the wife of Mellion, 'and
Ptauline and Dominick, who resided in-Louisiana.
" 5. The lots of which Nicolas Girod- has made a-donation'tothe Poydras Asylum were worth, at the time of said donaffdn,
35,000, or thereabouts.
" 6. Nicolas Girod alwaysresided in Louisiana, and never went
to Europe after his settlement in this city under the Spanish govern.ment..
"7. Althe letters mentioned in the printed answer, from pp. 27
-to 38 inclusive, are admitted to be genuine, and the translations of'
parts thereof, in said answer, are'admitted to be correct ; but the
"cihnplainants willrequire
complete translations of them to be prepared, and they reserve the right of objecting, to their admissibility
on other grounds, if any they have.
"8. Hyppolite Pargoud was brought to Louisiana by his uncle,
Jean Francois Girod, junior, and has resided with him in Ouachita
up to the year 1821, when said uncle went to Paris.
"9. The residence of M'me Adam, of
n'me Quetand, and of
Jacqueline Poidebard, the wife of Joseph Rivolet, was at Th6nes,
inSavoy.
"10. Th6 age of Jeaif Franois Girod, junior, now residing at
Paris, is seventy-two. He is unmarried. Has no other heirs at
law except the complainants, and some relatives of the same degree,
or their legal representatives. He is on good terms with the complainant, and he aAd Hyppolite Pargoud, the attorney in fact of the
complainants, are intimate friends, and Antoine Michoud is his attorney in fact.
"11. The two acquittances of M'mes Pargoud and Adam, mentioned in the answer, and-since deposited in court, are admitted to
be genuine, and the said complainants were, in executing them,
authorized and assisted by their husbands.
"112. Hippolyte Pargoud is a man of good business habits, attentive and intelligent. He visited his family in 1827 and 1835, but
at each visit stayed but a very short time with them. In 1837, he
obtained a power of attorney from his mother, authorizing -him to
claim and recover her share in the estate of Claude Franois Girod.
It was shown to Antoine Michoud, to be by him attested or legalized, as Sardinian consul, but it was not made use of. Hyppolite
Pargoud demanded and obtained another, which was executed be-

332

JSUPRRME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et a].

fore a.notarypublic on the 18th of May, 1840. From the timehe
received the first power, he made no secret of his intention of
bringirg a suit against his uncle Nicolas, and after receiving the
second power, when making the inventory at Lafourche, where he
was present, he said, that if there had been a will or testament
made by his said uncle, he would have sued his succession in the
name of his mother.
"113. The letters which have heepi heretofore deposited by the
defendants in the hands of the clerk of the court are genuine, and
all signed by the parties in whose names they are written. But the
complainants reserve all other objections to their admissibility, and
if they are admitted in evidence, they must be translated.
"114. The will of Nicolas Girod was not known when the said
inventory was made at Lafourche; it was discovered to exist some
time thereafter.
" 15. By the laws of the Duchy of Savoy, Hyppolite Pargoud
is a forced heir of his mother, Peronne Bernardme Pargoud, one
of the complainants.
" 16. Nicolas Girod was the eldest of the family. He was
years old when he died.
"17. In November, 1833, Nicolas Girod made a present to
PT 'lippine Poidebard, his niece (widow Nicoud), of the sum of
8,240 francs, equal to $ 648 ; and in March, 1834, he made her
another present of 22,000 francs, equal to $ 4,400, both which
presents she received.
J. P. BENJAMIN, for complainants."
(Signed,)
And on the 29th of April, 1844, the following admissions of
defendants were filed.

Admissions of Defendants.
" PARGOUD V. MICHOUJD.

" 1. Denise Philippine Poidebard, the widow of Pierre Nicoud,
died in August, 1841, leaving three legitimate children, viz. Benoite Colline Nicoud,, Maurice Emilie Nicoud, and Jeannie Benoite Nicoud, die last of whom is a minor; Jean Berger is her
tutor. All these parties, as well as Louis Joseph Poidebard,
never were in the United States.
"2. The allegations in the answer of Jean Firman Pepin, as
syndic of Jean Fran.ois Cirod, jr., concerning the transmission 6f
the latter's interest in the subject-matter of this suit, are correct,
viz.: that Pierre Nicolas Girod died at New Orleans, on the 1st
of September, 1841, leaving a testament, by act, before Joseph
Cuvillier, notary public, of the 6th of February, 1841, by which
he bequeathed all his property to the said Jean Francois Girod, jr.,
his brother ; the said Jean Franois Girod, jr., made a cession of
property in the District Court of the First Judicial District, on the
k5th of January, 1842 4 that thereby the interest of both Pierre

JANUARY.TERM, 1846.
MicnoUd

533

ot aL v. Girod et al.

Nicolas and Jean Frangois Girod. jr., is vested in the creditors of
the said Jean Fraqois Girod, jr., and that said Jean Firman Pepin is the syndic of the said creditors.
"13. All the property described in the inventory of the estate of
Nicolas Girod, as being situated in the second munibipality, is derived from the estate of Claude Francois Girod. Nicolas Girod
never improved.this property, but leased it to John F. Miller, by
two acts passed before L. T. Caire, notary public, on the 9th of
May, 1829, and the 30th of April, 1831 ;, each of these leases is
for the space of twenty years, and for an annual rent of $ 3,000.
"f4. The age of Jean Baptiste Dejan, ain6, is sixty-seven years,
and that of Claude Gurlie, seventy-two years. The former is a native of New Orleans, the latter has resided in New Orleans fortyeight years, and whs intimate with Nicolas G-irod as early as 1814.
",5. Nicolas Girod never cultivated oi occupied any of the lands
mentioned in the bill as situated on Bayou Lafourcho, except the
plantation, but made levees on those lands.
" 6. The Bouvard family resided, in 1813, and has ever since
been residing, at or near Bordeaux, in France.
"7. The age of Etienne Rivolet, one of the legatees of N. Girod, is forty years. He is not related to the Girod family, except
by his brother, who married Jaqueline Poidebard, one of the
nieces of Claude Francois Girod, the testator, and who is therefore his sisteir-in-law.
MIAZUREAU, for defendants."
(Signed,)
And on the 29th of April, the following was offered in evidence
and filed.
" UNITED
"WIDOW

PARGOUD

STATES CIRCUIT COURT.

AND OTHERS

v*
ANTOINE
9

In Chancery.

MIC'HOUD AND OTHERS.

dmissions and Atgreements between the Parties.

Corrino,
"91. Admitted that one Joseph Gaubuan, and ont:
witnesses on the part o" the defendants, would, on being examined
upon their oaths, declare; that it was to theperfect previous knowledge, andwith the consent and authorization of Jean Francois Girod, jr., one of the testamentary executors of Claude Franois
Girdd, that Simon Laignel did bid and become the pnrchaser, at the
public sale made by the register of wills, in the city of New Orleans, of the faubourg and city property belonging to said Claude
Franois Girod, after his death ; and further, that it was also to th.
perfect knowledge, and with the consent and authorization, of said
Jean Francois Girod, that afterwards the said Simon Laignel sold
the same property to- Nicolas Girod, the co-testamentary executor
of said Jean Francois.

$84

SUPREME tPOURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

1"2. All objections are waived,. which migit-ave been made in
cousequence of the answers of tne defendants, to whom interrogatories have been administered and propounded, being sworn to
before Justice Jackson ; and it is agreed that the said answers, so
sworn to, shall have the same force and effect as if they had been
iwora to before the proper officer.
(Signed,)
L. JANIN.
"N'bw Orleans, 29th .Qpril, 1844."

On the 29th of July, 1844, the court made a decree, of which
he following is a copy.
",This cause came on to be heard this term, and was argued
by counsel,; and thereupon, upon consideration thereof, it is ordered, adjudged,.and decreed as follows:- That the plaintiffs are
the residuary legatees of Claude Fran ois Girod, deceased, in the
following'proportion, viz. Peronne Bernardine Girod, the widow
of Jean Pierre Hector Pargoud, for one eighth; Rosalie Girod,
the widow of Louis Adam, for one eighth; Franjoise Peronne
Quitand, the wife of J. A. Allard, for one forty-eighth ; -Marie
Philippine Rose Qditand, for. one forty-eighth ; Marie Bernard

Quitand, for one forty-eighth; Louis Joseph Poidebard, for one
forty-eighth ; Benoite Colline Nicoud, for two two-hundred-andeighty-eighths ; Maurice Emilie Nicoud, and Jenny Benoite Nicoud, represented by Jean Berger, their tutor, each for two two-

hundred-and-eighty-eighths ; Jean Francois Girod, the nephew, in
his own right, and as testamentary heir of Pierre Nicolas Girod,
his brother, and repesented by Jean Firman Pepin, the syndic of

his creditors, for one twentieth; and Franoise Clementine Girod,
wife of Pierre Franooi Pernond,.for one fortieth."That the adjuaication of landed property, with the slaves
thereto attached, situated on Bayou Lafourche, made on the 18th
of February, 1814, to Charles St. Felix ; the retrocession of said
property by said Charles St. Felix to Nicolas and Jean Frangois
Girod, on the 23d of Febrnary 1814 ; the adjudication of the
property situated in the parish of Orleans, made to Simon Laignel
on ihe 9th of April, 1814, and the notarial seal made to the same
on the 26th of April, 1814, in pursuance of said adjudication ;
and the conveyance of said property to Nicolas Girod, of the 28th of
April, 1814, be set aside and annulled, saving, however, the just
rights of third persons, to whom two tracts of land on Bayou t1afourche, two slaves, and a piece.-of ground in the city of New Orleans were conveyed by the said Nicolas Girod in his lifetime, as
appears from the admissions in the pleadings.
"That the dative testamentary executors of the late Nicolas

Girod do execute to the plaintiffs, or to their legal representatives,
good and valid notarial conveyances and assignments of such undi-

vided portions of the aforesaid property as correspond to the pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

80

Michoud et al. r. Giroil et al;

portions in which they are residuary legatees of the late Claude
xran ois Girod, as herein before declared ; which conveyances and
assignments are to be settled-by Duncan N. Hennen, as master in
chancery of this court, in the event of a difference between the parties in relation thereto.
"And for greazer certainty, it is hereby declared, that the property, of which undivided portions are to be conveyed and assigned
to the plaintiffs as aforesaid, is all the property and slaves which
were inventoried in the parishes of Ascension, Assumptibn, and
Lafourche Interior, after the death of said Nicolas Girod, as b6
longing to his estate; and all the property which was inventoried,
after the death of said Nicolas Girod* as situated in the Municipality No. 2 of the city of New Orleans, including the property whieh
is an alluvion, and accessory to the property derived from the estates of Claude Frangois Girod, was abandoned to Nicolas Girod
by the heirs of Bertrand Gravier, by an act of compromise executed on the 29th day of March, 1823, and also the house and lot
situated at the comer of St. Louis and Chartres Streets, in Munici"pality No. 1 of thd city of New Orleans.
" That the account filed by Nicolas Girod and Jean Franqois
Girod, in the Court of Probates of the Parish of Orleans, in May,
'1817, be opened and set aside; that the sum of $ 40,418"09i claimed by Nielas Girod in said account, and the sum of $ 8,253"20,
claimed by Jean Franpois Girod for himself in said account, be
disallowed and rejected; that the. two judgments which were obtained in the Parish Court of the Parish of Orleans, in the year
1815, for the aforesaid two sums of$ 40,418"09, and $ 8,253"20,
be declared satisfied, and that no allowance be made to the defendants on account of said judgment .
" That the two acquittances and releases given, in 1817, by the
plaintiffs, Madame Adam and Madame Pargoud, to Jean Francois
Girod, be set aside, and be allowed no other force or effect than
as acknowledgments of the, receipt by Madame Pargoud for
5,242-75 francs, and by Madame Adam for the sum of 10,242
francs 75c., making respectively the sum of $975"15 and
$ 1,905-15 in the currency of the United States, as stated in said
receipt.
" And it is ordered, that a reference be made to the said master
in chancery, to take an account of what is due from the estate of
Nicolas Girod to the plaintiffs on account of the property belonging to the estate of Claude Francois Girod and alienated by said
Nicolas Girod, for rents and profits, and for interest; and of what
may be due by the complainants to the estate of Nicolas Girod,
for payments made by the said Nicolas on account of the debts
of the said Claude Francois Girod, and of the legacies made by
him, and of permanent improvements ; afid in taking said account,
said master shall charge the said estate with the value of the crop

538

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

alleged to have been on hand when the property in Lafourche was
adjudicated to Charles St. Felix, with interest thereon ; with the
amounts which, by the aforesaid account of 1817, the said executors acknowledged to have received, or for which they consented
to become responsible, from the time the same were received; with
the price at which the two tracts of land on Bayou Lafourche and
the two slaves were sold, and which are mentioned in the pleadings
as ,having heretofore been sold, with interest thereon, from the
time when, according to the bill of sale, said price was payable ;
with the sum of thirty-five thousand dollars, this being the admitted
value of the price of the ground donated by Nicolas Girod to the
Female Orphan Asylum, with interest thereon from the time said
donation was made ; with the rents and profits of the plantation and
slaves, the house at the corner of Chartres'and St. Louis Streets,
and the property in Faubourg St. Mary:, now called the Second
Municipality, from the ,jdjudication of 1814, and at the rate which
might reasonably, and with a proper administration, have been obtained for the same, it being understood that from the years 1819
and 1830, when the property in Faubourg St. Mary, or Second
Municipality, still undisposed of, was lased to John F. Miller, the
rents and profits thereon are to be charged at the rate at which the
rent was stipulated in the lease to said Miller.
"And the said master shall credit the estate of Nicolas Girod in
said account -with the amount with which said executors credited
themselves in their account of 1817, with interest thereon, except
their aforesaid two personal claims of $ 40,418"09, and $ 8,25320;
with any payments that have been made on account of legacies left
by-the said Claude Fran~ois Cirod, with interest thereon; and
also with one half of tfie rents and profits of the plantation and
slaves-of Bayou Lafourche, up to the time when Jean Trangois
Girod sold his interest in the same to Nicolas Girod, the plaintiffs
having in their bill consented to ,abandon the half of these rents and
profits supposed'to have been received by the said Jean Frangois
Girod ; and also with the actual cost in money to Nicolas Girod,
but without interest, of the permanent improvements made by said
Nicolas Girod, and still in existence, on the lot at the comer of St.
Louis and Chartres Streets, and on the lahds on Bayou Lafourche,
deducting therefrom the value of the labor of the slaves of the
said plantation,. and of the materials procured from the same, and
making, also, proper deductions for the diminution in value of said
improvements by wear and tear ; and all the interest to be charged
in said account shall be so charged at the rate of five per cent.
" And the said master shall compute what amount of the balance
so to be found against the estate of Nicolas Girod shall be paid to
each of the plaintiffs, according to their declared proportionate interest in the estate of Claude Franois Girod, and said balance
shall be paid to them, with interest, from the date up to which the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

587

Hichond et al..v. Giro'd et al.

master's report may present a calculation of interest, unless, on i.
plication of the parties, the court shall otherwise direct ; and said
payment shall be made by the dative testamentary executors of
Nicolas Girod, out of the funds of said.estate, in preference to any
legacies. And for the better discovery of matters aforesaid, the
parties are to produce before the said master, upon oath, all books,
papers, and. writings, in their custody or power, relating thereto, as
the said master shall direct. And the said master shall, when
necessary, examine said parties upon written interrogatories.
" And it is further ordered, that the said dative testamentary executors pay out of the funds of said estate the costs of this suit
which have hitherto accrued. And it is further ordered, that either
party, if so advised, be at liberty to apply to the court for a partition in kind, or by sale of the above-mentioned real estate of
Nicolas Girod. And all further directions are ieserved until the
master shall bring in hi report.
"Decree signed, July 30th, 1844.

(Signed,)

THEO. H. McCALEB,

[SEAL.]

United States Judge."
From this decree, the defendants appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Eutis, for the appellants, and
JMr. Janin, for the appellees.
The following is a synopsis of the argument of Mr.
Eustis for
1
the appellants.
The facts necessary to an understanding of this case are few and
not complicated ; most of them are admitted in the answer, and
others are established by documentary evidence.
The action is founded on an alleg I purchase of the effects of
the s'uecession of Claude Girod by his'executors.
Claude Girod died in 1813, leaving a will made in 1812.
The sales ;omplained of took place in 1814.
The commencement of the adverse possession, .and the 'uninterrupted, exclusive, and notorious enjoyment of the revenues of the
,estates being fixed by the complainants' own bill, we proceed at
once to the matters of defence which those facts present, and
which are set forth formally in the answer.
1. The first grouhd of defence is the entire want of equity in
the complainants' case, arising from the silence, acquiescence, and
laches of the complainants since 1814.
The principles on which courts of equity refuse their assistance
to parties under circumstances like the present are familiar to the
court. The most recent cases are the following: - McKnight v.
Taylor, 1. Howard, 168-; Bowman v. Walthen, I Howard, 193;
Smith v. Clay, 3 Brown's Ch. R. 640, n. ; Stearns v. Page, 1 Story, 215 ; Giles v. Baremore, 5 Johns. Ch. R. 550 ; Piatt r. VatVOL. IV
68

WSUPREME

COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girtd et al.

tier, 9 Peters's R. 417 ; Story's Equity, §§ 1519, 1520, ef 8eq.;
Fonblanque's Equity (last edition), notes to, Book 1, c. 4, § 27.
2. The, allegations and evidence adduced by the complainants
are no. reasonably definite as to the time, occasion, and circumstances of the alleged concealment, misrepresentation, and frauds;
nor is any account given of the time of the discovery. Of the fact
of the adverse possession, it is not even alleged in terms that the
plaintiffs were ignorant ; the allegation of ignorance of the real situation, &c., is not sufficient for a court of equity to base its action
upon. Stearns v. Page, 1 Story's R. 215.
The -allegations of ignorance, concealment, &c., are expressly
denied and put at issue by defendants.
By the testimony of J. F. Girod, J. M. Girod, Michoud, and
Rivolet, receipts2 &c., the fact of knowledge is put beyond a reasonable doubt.
3. The allegations of the complainants in their amended bill
afford strong evidence -that the relief sought by them will not be a
matter of equity, but a speculation upon events.
The will of the testator, Nicholas Girod, and the large amount
of legacies, was the cause of the suit, not the injustice and wrongs
of 1814.
The release of the co-executor, J. F. Girod, and their conduct
towards him, point to the same conclusion. He is rich and alive.
The chances of inheritance offer a greater benefit than the result
of litigation. They acquiesce, discharge him, and await his bounty N. Girod is dead, and all their vials of wrath are opened
upon .his grave.
4. The defendants rely upon prescription as a defence.
There is a marked difference between piescriptions and statutes
of limitation. The former. create rights ; the latter merely reach
remedies,,and in a very qualified and artificial manner.
Prescription is a manner of acquiring property and of discharging debts by the effect of time. It is a title as much so as that of
inheritance or sale is. All are on the same footing, and a court
can no more interfere with rights under the one than under the
others. Louisiana Code, 3421 ; Code of 1809, p. 482, art. 32.
By the civil law, prescription is a mode of extinguishing obligations, and is classed withpayment, novation, 4c. The obligation
itself is extinguished in foro conscientim, as well as in foro legis.
Louisiana Code, art. 2126 ; Code of'1809, p. 286, art. 134 ;
Troplong on Prescription. c. 1, §§ 2, 31 ; Code Napoleon, 1234,
2219 ; Institutes of the C-vil Law of Spain, p. 103, lib. 29,tit. 2,
p. 108.
Under the civil law, from motives of public policy, great weight
in matters of property is given to possession. The oldest legal
maxims of which we have record establish the, principles, which
modern nations, so far from deviating from, have rather restricted.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

539

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

The policy has stood the test of experience and of time. Possession is at once the object, the attribute, and the proof of property ; henceit forms the basis of a title, that of prescription.
Nicholas Girod purchased and possessed the estates mentioned
in the bill since 1814.
He acquired to their a complete title, by prescription, under the
laws of Louisiana. His acts of conveyance were public -and authentic, and duly recorded in the proper offices. There are several articles of the Code providing prescriptions; which cover this
case. Article 2218, and 204, p. 302, of the Code of 1809,
provide, that in all cases in which the action of nullity or of rescission of an agreement is not limited to a shorter period by a
particular law, that action may be brought within ten years. In
cases of error or deception,'the time of the prescription dates from
the day on which either was discovered. In this case, there was
no secrecy or concealment, and there could be no discovery, in relation to the fact of the sales to N. Girod. The property. was not
kept concealed under the name of a third person, but in his own,
and placed on the public records as belonging to him. The adverse possession alone was full notice to the complainants. It was
sufficient to put them on the inquiry, and they had all the means of
information to lead them to a knowledge of the facts, and in law
are deemed consonant of them. Sugden on Vendors, 542 ; 1
Atkyns, 489 ; 1 Johns. Ch. R. 267; 2 Binney, 466 ; 1"5 Johns.
R. 555; Wilhison v. Watkins, 3kPeters, 52; 10 Peters, 222, 223;
1 Howard, 196 ; see also the opinion of Pothier on prescription,
as affecting absentees, Treatise on Obligations, No. .649 ; Institutes of the Civil Law of Spain, lib. 2, tit. 2, p. 108.
The only fraud in relation to the sales which can be pretended
is, that the executors purchased at.the public sales. This fact, if
it was so, is as apparent when the titles were put in their names as
it is now.
But, if the only fraud in the sales arises from the incapacity of
the partyto purchase, the prescription of he article 3507 applies
with great force. That provides that the action of nullity or rescission of contracts, testaments, or other acts for -the rescissions
of partitions, &c., is prescribed by five years against persons living
in the State, and ten years against absentees.
Is not the agreement between J.F. Girod and.Me. Pargoud, of
November 10, 1817, a contract, - an act ? Is it not, under,the
decisions of our courts, a partition ? It is stated in the instrument,
that it is for her share'in the succession reduced into movable effects, mobilise, turned into money. "Whatever may be the form
of the act, it is well settled that every first settlement between heirs
or partners, by which a state of indivision is terminated, is in substance a partition," say the Supreme Court. And an hetion to set
aside, on the ground of lesion and fraudi an agreement by which

540

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

six slaves were given in consideration of a relinquishment on the
part of an heir of all her right and interest in the succession of her
mother, in favor of her father-in-law, was held to be barred by the
prescription of five years under this article 3507. See 3 Robinson's A. 317 ; 14 Louisiana R. 22; 15 ibid. 517; 16 ibid. 252;
Tippet and husband v. Jett. Here the court hold that even fraud
is prescribed against under this article, without any reference as
to the time of the discovery of it.
The prescription of actions for lesion, in contracts generally, is
only four years. Code, 1870. . There is. another prescription
which protects the defendants, - that of twenty years under a just
title ;, that is, a title by which property can be transferred. Louisiana Code, 3442 ; Code of 1809, p. 488, arts. 60-72.
After the 10th of November, 1817, the date of the receipt of the
funds of the succession, in which it is stated that the property is
mobiliee, - converted into money, - there was nothing to impugn
the justice of the title to the property sold, which could not be affected by any misappropriation of the purchase money. This
would constitute a claim, and give rise to a personal action, which
would not affect the title to the property, which must rest on tbe
state of things in 1814. The heirs in Europe must be considered
as being satisfied with the price the property sold for, and constituted themselves creditors for their respective shares. The complaint that they have been wronged out of the proceeds presupposes that the sales were made ; and though it may or not be
true that they have been hardly dealt with, as the complainants allege, it by no means follows that the property was, in 1814, sold
or purchased in bad faith. In matters of prescription by possession, good faith is presumed ; bad faith, in a possession, must be
proved. Art. 3447. On the form of the title, see Toullier, 8
vol., No. 508, 509, art. 3,453, et seq. ; Merlin, Questions de
Droit, verbo .ineur.
There is a statute on this subject which clearly points out the
policy of the law, which is decidedly against stale claims, and reduces the prescription in previous sales to administrators, executors, &c. to two years from its passage, and recognizes their right
to purchase in all cases in which they have an interest in the property sold, as heirs, legatees, or partners. This law is very important in the consideration of this case. Laws of Louisiana of
1840, p. 123, No. 112, .passed on the 28th of March, 1840.
5. The angwer contains an argument on the facts. The letters
offered by defendants are found at pp. 200-215; the answers under oath from pp. 91 - 101. The most important deposition, that
of the co-executor, J. F. Girod, taken in Paris, at p. 139. It
was offered in evidence by the complainants.
The complainants call upon the defendants to explain all the
The deaffairs of'this succession, which was opened in 181.

JANUARY

541

TERM, 1846.

Michoud at al. v. Girod et-al.

fendants are all strangers to them. They are the dative executors,
appointed by the Court of Probates, and not by the will of the testator and legatees. Vide the will.
Why did they not call upon him who alone could give them information,- upon N. Girod, in his lifetime ?
But they called upon J. F. Girod, the co-executor of Claude
Girod, and the alleged confederate in these marvellous frauds.
Let his deposition speak. Doeg he say the sales" were fraudulent,
or that his coheirs were wronged ? It is decisive of the case.
One sentence alone closes it :"Then (1817) it was that N. Girod, who had settled the estate, handed mea copy of the account rendered to the Court of
Probates, and a copy of C. F. Girod's testament, and it was on
the faith of these documents) presented to the heirs in Europe,
that I paid to each of them and to the legatees what accrued to
them."
J. F. Girod was sent to Europe by his brother to pay the heirs
who resided in Savoy. The act in the bill of complaint, signed
by Me. Pargoud, was- made at Annecy, in -Savoy. He met his
brother, the priest, in Paris. He refused to examine the accounts
in Paris. Vide his letter. The account on which the heirs were
paid by''J. F. Girod is found at length at pp. 125 - 128 ; the will
of Claude Girod, pp. 163, 164. In the account are stated the
amounts due 1N. Girod and J. F. Girod, namely, of $ 40,413-09,
and of $ 8,253"20. These items are charged as paid, and the
succession is credited with the proceeds of the property sold.
The account is a settlement of the. affairs of the succession, on
which the payment was made in Savoy, in 1817.
A strict examination of the evidence must result in the conviction of an entire want of evidence io establish any thing like fraud
on the part of N. Girod.
There are some matters of law which it may be well to consider
under this head.
a. By the will the executors were empowered to sell, without
the intervention of justice, as to them should seem best for the interest of the absent.
b. The executors were bodnd to cause the property to be sold.
Code of 1809, p. 246, arts. 173, 174 ; p. 174, art. 128.
c. The heirs present had a right to insist on a sale for cash.
ibid., p. 174, art. 129.
d. The law requires the estate to be settled within the year,
where it can be done. The possession of the executor does not
continue after a year and a day. Ibid., p. 244, arts. 166, 169, 173,
et al. ; 4 Martin's R. 340, 609 ; Norwood's case, 10 ibid. 723.
e. After a considerable lapse of time, the presumption omnia.
rite acta esse applies ; besides, by the law of 1834, (p. 123 of
pamphlet acts), all informalities growin& out of a public sale by a
VOL. IV.

'IT

542

SUPREME

COURT.

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

parish judge, or other public officer, are prescribed by the lapse
of five years. 2 Robinson, 377 ; 16 Louisiana Rep. 554.
f. But the executors did not sell ; the- judge sold at public auction, and in the most public, fair, and formal manner.
Code of 1809, pp. 174, 127- 129. The judge sells, not the
executor or curator. "The sale was complete without any act of
the executors. 3 Martin, 592.
g. No decree of the court was necessary to authorize the sale.
If there was, one must be presumed after this lapse of time ; for
the judge himself sold. But none was necessary. Commentary
of Gregolio Lopez on Law, 62, tit. 18, part. 3, which treats of
sales made by executors, and only requires them to be made at
auction.
6. The decisions of the Supreme Court went.far beyond the
law in establishing incapacities to purchase at judicial sales under
the old laws ; the legislative interpretatioki of 1840, before cited,
puts this fact beyond question. In interpreting the Spanish laws,
the decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana are very unsafe
guides, as. every one knows who has scrutinized them.
It is a great mistake to suppose that purchases made by an executor, at a public sale made by a judge of the property of a succession, are absolutely nill and void. The inhibition is, at best, a
matter of precaution, to prevent abuse, and is established in the
interest of the heirs, and for their benefit exclusively. The authorities cited by the complainants pfove this beyond question. .13
Louisiana R. 396. This they may renounce or enforce, after a
reasonable tune, according to their own peculiar views. Louisiana
Code, art. 11 ; 7 Toullier, 562, et seq., 665, c! seq. ; Sugden on
Vendors (ed. of 1834), 436. In all cases where a purchase is
made by a trustee, it is optional with the cestui que trust to set it
aside. Story's Equity, §§ 322, 308. The cestui que trust has
a right to set aside the prchase, and have the estatb resold, if he
choose, within any reasonable time, to dissent from the purchase.
5 Vesey, 678 ; 13 Vesey, 600.
The purchase by a curator or trustee is nalum prohibitum, and
not malum in. se.. 8 Toullier, § 517, p. 713 ; 2 Sugden on Vendors (edition of 1836),. 143 ; notes to page 125, No. 329.
In Randall v. Ermington (1-0 Vesey, 428), the fact of the purchase
was not clear, the possession of Ermihgton was equivocal ; but, in
all cases where there is a continued public adverse possession, the
party dissenting must apply within a reasonable time for relief; he
must not lie by and speculate on events. 5 Vesey, 678 and 680;
Newland on Contracts.
The court cannot permit the parties in this case to speculate on
the chances of war. The appraisement, the basis of the mortuary
oceedings, is not impugned, nor is the adequacy of the price.
he complainants were satisfied with it, even in 1817. They have

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

54

Mich oud et a]. v. Girod et al.

waited until the growth of the country has given an increased value
-to real property, and now ask the court, not to do justice,, but to
accomplish for them a speculation. Had Louisiana been reduced
to colonial vassalage, and enjoyed the advantages of negrophilism,
or had the father of the floods, instead of adding to 'the extent of
the suburban estates, reduced, by its frequent abrasions, their extent and value, and burdened it with riparian works and charges,
we should have been held accountable for the price, -- at their option
the thing or the price, as it is most advantageous to the claimants.
What is this but a speculation on events, which law and good faith
repudiate ?
7. There has been a ratification of the sales by receiving the
price, or part of it. This is what is called the voluntary execution
of the contract of sales. -The article 2252 of our Code, and 238
of the Code of 1809, p. 310, say it is sufficient that the obligation
be voluntarily executed, to throw the- proof. of ignorance 'of the.
party ratifying on him who alleged it. Where there is an execution of the contract by receiving the price, the party executing it
is presumed to know any defects-or grounds on which it could be
annulled, and ignorance of them must be proved, which Tcan 'be
very easily done where there has been any misrepresentation, or
deceit. And if part of the price be received, the remedy of the
party is by a personal action against the executor or trustee for any
abuse of his functions.
8 Toullier, 508 - 510, 513, cit. Merlin, Questions de Droit,
verbo Alineur.
The case of Rivas, relied on by complainants, contains no new
doctrine. The question there was, whether the party had received
part of the price of the plantation in dispute knowingly, that is,
knowing that the money he received came from "the sale. The
court, not being satisfied of the fact,'bf course held that there was
no ratification, but asserted the principle maintained in 8 Toullier,
519, art. 2252 of the Louisiana Code.
The law never permits a person to mislead another by his silence,
where, by the relations between: them, he is bound to speak. This
property had been sold, the executors were the agents of complainants, the accounti were before them, the price which the property
brought was laid before them, and if they thought proper to receive
their portions, they certainly ratified the sales. Their claim for a
further portion of the price remains to be considered. Story on
Agency, § 255, and cases cited.,
The application of these principles to the payment and discharge
in Europe, as explained in the testimony of J. F. Girod, requires
no observation.
8. An examination of the articles of the Code of 1809 cited by
complainants will satisfy the court that the parish judges of the
place wherie the property was situated were competent to make the

544

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. -. Girod et al.

inventories, appraisements, and sales. Page 246, art. 174 ; page
174, art. 127 - 129.
The French text of art. 127, cited, puts the matter beyond controversy, - le juge de 'la paroisse ou des paroisses, in which the
deceased had property, hall make the inventory ; and art. 128
provides, that the judge making the inventory shall make the sales.
The- art 137, P. 178, refers to curators appointed by a judge.
The executor is appointed by the will, and not by the judge.
It is not alleged in the bill or suppleniLntary bills,"Mat the parish
-judges who made the inventories and sales acted without authority,
except as to the sale of the land in the parish of Lafourche Interior b5y the judge of Assumption. Nor is it alleged that the Court
of Probates of New Orleans was without jurisdiction as to the settlement of the executor's accounts and liquidation of the succession.
The only allegation as to the defect of jurisdiction of any of the
courts is found in the amended bill, p. 102, in which it is charged
that the Parish Court of New Orleans, which rendered the two
judgments alleged to be fraudulent, is incompetent. How incompetent ? By reason of what ? Query) for want of jurisdiction,
or for want of 'proper parties ?
Questions of jurisdiction, under the old judicial system of Louisiana, particularly of the courts of probates, have been difficult;
and, after this lapse of time, eveiy presumption must be in favor
of what has been done in courts of justice. 2 Robinson's R. 377;
Drenet's case, 8 N. S. 705.
As to the undoubted jurisdiction of the court of the parish and
city of New Orleans, which rendered the judgments attacked as
fraudulent, vide Tabor's case, 3 Martin, N. S., 676 ; 6 Martin,
N. S., 676; 8 ibid. 241 and 705;-7 ibid. 378. The Code of Practice, enacted in 1825, vested the jurisdiction in the courts of probate exclusively of all claims for money against successions.
The jurisdiction of the Court of Probates of New Orleans,
which homologated the executor's account, not having been questioned in the bill this court will not disturb its decrees. The
jurisdiction existed ratione materice, the creditors assented thereto ;
the succession was solvent, and the vesting of the jurisdiction in
any other court by the articles quoted is merely a matter of implication, and by no means exclusive. Vide Tabor's case, cit. 3
Martin, N. S., 680.
9. Respecting the effect given to judgments bomologating proceedings, tableaus, accounts, &c., vid. 6, N. S., 133, 654 ; 11
Louisiana R. 571 ; 7 N. S. 183, 433 ; 4 Louisiana R. 174. The
settlement established by the judge in a judgment against a'curator
or, As
executor.
Code of 1809, p. 180, art. 145.
to the appointment
of a defensor to represent absent heirs in
suits and vacant successions, vide 4 Martin, 666 ; 10 Martin,

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

545

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

17 ; 4 Louisiana R. 259 ; 6 Martin, N. S., 17; Seymour's case,
9 Louisiana R. 79.
10. Homologations, like other judgments, must bejainulled by a
judgment of the court which rendered them. 12 Louisiana R, 406.
Every judgment in Louisiana is subject to an action of nullity,
4ut it must be brought before the court by which the judgment was
rendered. 1 Louisiana R. 21. Code of Practice, article 608, and
notes.
It the cqurt would not give the party relief, then, and only then,
can relief be sought before the courts of the United States. The
doctrine established by this court in the Gaines case, concerning
relief against the effect of a will, is similar in all respects to that
which is here invoked.
11. It appears that in the account filed by the executors in the
Court of Probates of New Orleans, and exhibited, with the will, to
the heirs in Europe by J. F. Girod, on which he made the payrients to the heirs, were two sums with which the executors charged
the succession of Claude Girod ; one was for $ 40,413-09, as paid
to Nicolas Girod ; and the other was for $ 8,25820, paid to J.
F. Gired The sums are stated to be by account annexed, approved by the judge. Vide Code of 1809, p. 180, article 145.
The complainants, acting uniformly on the principle of -orie
course of conduct for the living and another for the dead, have
discharged J. F. Girod, and seek to make N. Girod's succession
responsible for both debts.
it appears that the judge of the Court of Probates did not approve
these accounts against the succession of. Claude Girod until thej
had been litigated on, and settled judicially, in a court of la*.
Judgments were rendered on each claim in the coart of the parish
and city of New Orleans ; on that of N. Girod on the 5th Decemn-"
ber, 1814, and on that of J. F. Girod on the 6th May, 1815. On
these judgments the vials of wrath are poured forth by the complainants. Rec. 163-182.
Recourse is had to conjecture, when nothing would have been
easier than to prove any fact in relation to these judgments by J. F.
Girod himself, who, so far from being interrogated concerning these
debts, is provided with a complete and full discharge.
The consequences and effect of this discharge of the plaintiff.in
one of the suits, and the recipient of the money and the defendant
in the Qth6r, will certainly have an important bearing on the equity
of the complainants' case ; and the absence of this proof, which is
at hand, will show that they rely more on confmion and conjecture
for success than on evidence.
The court of the parish and city of New Orleans had jurisdiction
of the cases, as has been shown.
An objection has been made, that there were not proper parties.
What prevented an executor, who had a disputed claim on a suc
TT *69
VOL. IV.

546

SU3PREME, COURT.
Miehoud et al. v. Girod et al.

cession, establishing in an ordinary tribunal, as the laws stood before the Code of Practice ? The art. 137 (p. 248, Code of
1809) gives the power of one executor to represent the succession,
where there are mor- than o e executor who has accepted. Code,
1674 ; vide 3 Martin's R. 247. The appearance and answer of
the defensor of absent heirs strengthens.the validity and fairness of
ihe proceedings.
The judgments, being valil in point of form, maststand until the
are annulled and declared void by a proper tribunal. 7 Martin, 1.
S., 257 ; 11 Martin's R. 607 ; 5 Martin, N. S., 664.
These judgments are attacked as fraudulent. Unfortunately for
the complainants, there is no circumstance by them even conjectured which may not have been removed by evidence.
The testimony and evidence on which thes6 judgments were
rendered is not before us ;. but let us take up that in favor of N.
Girod, which is the only one we have any interest in - maintaining,
since the release of J. F. Girod.
Claude Girod was a trader, and left' at his death various accounts, books, papers, &c., which were inventoried at his death.
He had transactions with his elder brother Nicholas, who was a
merchant in New Orleans. The witnesses examined by the arbitrators were Boussignes, Pacaud, Guillot, and J. F. Girod.
The grbitrators, as will be seen by the reasons appended to each
'item, founded their opinion on the testimony of witnesses, and the
examination of books, documents, and vouchers.
It is complained that the case was referred to arbitrators ; - was
it not a case of old and complicated accounts ? 7 Peters, 625 ; 1
Martin's Digest, verbo A.ccounts, 405.
Arbitrators, by our code, are to decide according to the strictness of the law. Louisiana Code, 3077, Code of 1b09, p. 442,
art. 12 ; Law of 1805, verbo qccounts ; 1 Martin's Dig. 405.
The interest may well have been due. Suppose that C. Girod,
in his books, charged interest on his accounts with his brothers ; was
he not bound to allow it ?
The prescription may have been proved to have been interrupted by acknowledgment and promises. The interruption is proved
positively by the testimony of Guillot. It was only in the case of
Goddard and Urquhart, in 1834, that the prescriptions under the
Spanish law were established. In Lobdell's case (7 Martin, N.
S., 109), the Supreme Court held, that the prescription of a promissory note, under the Spanish law, was thirty years. It is a mistake
that Claude Girod says in his will that he leaves no debts but to the
amount of $ 30,000. He says, I am indebted to divers persons by
obligations, and little by accounts, in a sum of about $ 30,000.
He may have meant to persdns other than his brothers, - to persons out of his family. Debts, especially old ones, between broth-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

54

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

ers, are ligtly thought of by debtors; but creditors, have better
memories.
The declarations, indefinite as these, in a man's wil, are bad arguments against the existence of a debt, and no proof at all.
Nor did N. Girod, in his petition for the sale of the property
of Claude Girod's succession in New Orleans) limit the legacies
and debts to $60,000. He says, the amount of legacies and
debts which it is necessary to pay without delay is that sum, or
thereabouts.
Several of the persons who are parties to these suits are itill
Hving ; the respectable counsel for the plaintiff is still at the bar,
and the gentlemen appointed arbitrators were persons whose char.
acters were of the highest consideration.
But this court will enter into no such inquiry in a matter in which
the presumption is omnia acta rite e:se.
Supposing there were no judgments, were not the amounts exhibited to. complainants, when the payments were made to themi
and the will, with its contents, shown to them, and does not the
claim for these amounts resolve itself into a personal action to recover money unlawfully retained, as they allege ? and is not an action of this kind prescribed by ten years, according to complainants' own showing ? Goddard's case, 6 Louisiana R. 660.
It is believed that the grounds of defence to this action are so
obvious, as to require little else from the court than an examination and scrutiny of the facts. To aid in this examination, this
summary has been prepared, and is respectfully submitted.
lseignment of Rrror.
The appellants assign for errorin the decree rendered against
them in the court below, 1. That there is a total want of equity throughout the complain.
ants' bill, and ih the evidence adduced in support of it.
2. That, under the evidence and allegations of the bill, the conplainants have no claim in a court of equity, by reason of their long
silence, laches, and acquiescence in the ats complained of since
1814.
3. That the cause of action, as set forth by the complainants, is
barred and prescribed by lapse of time under the laws of Louisiana.
4. That the disallowance of the sums of $40,418 and of $8,253,
and the decree concerning the judgments for said amounts, is contradictoryand in violation of law.
5. That the agreements made by two of the complainants with
the defendant in 18.17 are valid, obligatory, and conclusive uponthe
parties ; that the dleclaration of the co-executor, J. F. Girod, has
the same effect.
6. That the discharge of J. F. Girod, the co-executor, destroys
all claim in equity against the defendants.

b48

SUPRRME' COURT.
Hichoud et aL

. Girod et al.

.Mr. Jnin,for the appellees, relied upon the following points and
-

authorities.

1. Although the will authorized the executors "to sell, the
property, or cause it to be sold, as to them would seem best for
the heirs of the testator, without the intervention of justice," the
Spanish law, then in force in Louisiana, yet required that the property should be sold at public sale, by order of court, and -after
thirg days' advertisement. Gayoso. v. Garcia, 1 Martin's R.,
N. S, 324.
2. A succession sale, made by the register of wills in the parish
of Orleans (or by the parish judges in the country parishes, who
there perform the functions of the register of wills, Code of 1808,
p. 182, art. 153), is null and void, if not preceded by an order of
the Court of IProbates. Elliott v.Labarre, 2 Louisiana R. 326.'
3. Probate sales, sheriff's sale', or judicial sales of any kind,
can be- set aside by the parties in interest, and treated, as nullities)
if the formalities prescribed by law are not complied with. Psyclb
%'.Psradol, 6 Louisiana R. 166 ; MoDonough v. Gravier's Curator, 9 Louisiana R., and cases there cited.
4. The act of the legislatre of Louisiana, of March 10, 1834,
by which certain irregularities in judicial sales are cured by the
lapse of five years, applies only to- irregularities in the advertisements. Morton v. Reynoldsl 4.Louisiana A.-28;, McCluskey v.
Webb, ibid.. 206. And 'even so:far as -the statute is applicable to
.the facts of this case, it cannot avail the defendants, because it was
not pleaded.c
5. By the civillaw, as well as by the law of chancery, an executor cannot purchase the property of the estate which he administers. Harrod v.Norris's Heirs, 11 Martin's, R. 298 ; Longbot-.
tom's Ex'r v. Babcock et al., 9 Louisiana R. 48 ; Scqtt's Ex'rs V.
Gorton, 14 ibid. 114, 122 ; frcCluskey v. Webb, 4 Rob. R. 201 ;
J Story's Eq. Juri~p. 315 1 Prevost v. Gratz, 1 Pet., C. C. Rep.
368 ; Wormley v. Woinley, 8 Wheat. 421 ; Case v. Abeel, 1
Paige, 397 ; Davoue v. Fanning, 2 Johns. Ch.R. 252 ; Rogers v.
Rogers, I -Hbpk.525.
6. The judgments obtained by Nicholas Girod for $ 40,418.09,
sud by J. .Girod for $ 8;253-0, were the result of the frauduleat veoitrivances disclosed by the evidenee. It is well settled, that
chancery will relieve collaterally'against frauds iu judgments. 1 Story's Eq'- Jurisp. § 252 ; 2 ibid.' § 1252 ; I addock's Ch. Pr.
300; Mitford's Eq. Plead. 266. ; Brashear s. West, 7 Peters,
16; Pratt v. Notham 5 Mason, 103 ; Gamett .Mason, 2
Brockenbr. 213 ; Marine Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 2 Cond. R. '526 ;
Bateman v. Willoe, I Sch. & Lef. 205 ; Winthrop et al. v. Lane,
3 Dess. 323; Irby v.M'Crae, 4 Dess. 429 ; Barnslyv . Powell, '1 Yes. sen. 289.
7. Even without fraud, these judgments could not be binding upou

JANUARY TERM,

146.

549

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

the heirs, for they were not parties to them, and the executors did
not represent them or the estate in these proceedings.- These
were indeed judgments without parties. Co-executors are- bound
jointly and severally. Code of 1808, p. 248, art. 177 ; 2 Story's
Eq. Jurisp. §§ 1280,1281. One of them may act for all. (Same
article of the Code 6f 1808.) They are considered in law'as one
person. 2 Williams's Executors, 620. Hence, if one confess the
action, judgment shall be given against them all. Ibid. 621. And
they cannot sue one another, if they have accepted the trust. Ibid.
685, 818.
8. Though the attorney of the absent heirs was made a party to
these suits, the judgments are not binding on the heirs. The duties of such an attorney are merely conservatory, - be never represents the estate. In cases of mere neglect, and free from fraud,
judgments obtained contradictorily with the attorney of the absent
heir have been treated as nullities. Stein v. Bowman, 9 Louisiana R. 282 ; Collins v. Pease's Heirs, 17 ibid. 1.17. As a
general rule, the courts disregard entirely judgments opposed to
parties who were not cited or not properly represented. 'Psyche
v. Paradol, 6 Louisiana R. 366 ; Marchaud v. Gracie, 2 ibid.
148.
9. The homologation of the account of 1817 is not resjudicata.
It appears, from the petition of the executors, and from the order
thereon., that the heirs were not at all represented in this proceeding'; the executors themselves preferring to represent them. An
attorney was indeed appointed to represent the three heirs of the
Poidebard family, who had not sent their powers of attorney to the
executors, and who were, together, entitled to one sixteenth of the
estate. But they, also, will be relieved from the effects of the homologation Qu account of the fraud of the executors, and the
neglect, if not worse, of the attorney of the absent heirs.
10. The proof of fairness, in dealings between trustee and cestui
que trust, lies upon the former. 8 Cond. Ch. R. 495 ; 1 Story's
Eq. Jurisp. § 218.
11. By the civil law, a purchase, by an executor of the property,
of the estate administered bv himself is radically null, and cannot
be cured by prescription. His possession as'executor is called 5Jn
that system of jurisprudence, a "1precarious " possession ; by no
act of his own can he alter its character; he cannot sell to himself ; notwithstanding an attempted purchase, the law considers his
possession as the precarious possession of an executor, and a precarious possession cannot prescribe by any lapse of time. Macarty v. Bond's Administrator, 9 Louisiana R. 355 ; McCluskey
v. Wbbb, 4 Rob. R. 201 ; Montamat v. Debon, 4 Martin's R.,
N. S., 152; Troplong on Prescription, Nos. 509, 517; 1 Vazeille on Prescription, Nos. 148, 149 ; Pothier's Treatise on Possession, Nos. 64 - 66.

550

SUPREME COURT,
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

12. If any prescription was applicable to the purchases of the
executors, it would be the prescription of thirty years, which protects purchasers in bad faith. Code of 1808, p. 486, art. 66;
Code of 1825, art. 3438, 3465 ; Frangois v. Delaronde, 8 Martin's R. 629; Troplong on Prescription, 'Nos. 905-907, 915,
918 ; 21 Durantun, Nos. 352-354.
13. The prescription of ten and twenty years relied on by the
detehdants, that is, of ten years between present, and of twenty
yeass between absent persons, can be pleaded only by those w~ose
possession was acquired, -first, honestly; second, by virtue of a
just title; third, by a title not defective in form. Code of 1808,
p. 486, art. 67 ; Deval v. Choppin, 15 Louisiana Rep. 566
Code of 1825, art. 3442, 3445, 3449 -3454.
But this prescription was not pleaded by the defendants.
14. The only prescription which the defendants plead in their
answer is the prescription of the action of nullity (p. 81 of the
answer). This is a .prescription of ten years, established by art.
204, p. 303, of the Code of 1808, which is literally the same as
article 2218 of the Code of 1825, and article 1304 of the Napoleon Code.
The answer rests this prescription on the receipts given in 1817
by Mine. -Pargoud and Mine. Adam, representing two of the five
branches of heirs on whose behalf this suit has been brought.
The terms of the law show that this prescription applies only to
actions of nullity or rescision to set aside an "1agreement." This
is not an action of nullity, but an action of revendicatioa, or petitory action, which, as bas been seen, is -barred only as. between
absent persons by the prescription of twenty or of thirty years, according as the purchaser was in good or in bad faith.
The receipts were not "'agreements," but an acknowledgmnpt
of the reception of a sum of money, which the executors represented as all that was coming to those two heirs'from the succession.
Even if-these receipts were "1agreements," in the sense of the
article, the right to set them aside would be barred only by the
term of ten years " from the discovery of the fraud." The evidence shows that the complainants had not the slightest knowledge
of the fraudulent acts now proved,, before 1837.
15. The defendants also contend, that these two receipts imply
a ratification of the acts of the executors. The definition and attributes of acts of confirmation and ratification are given in article.
238, p. 310, of the Code of 1808, which is a literal copy of article
1338 of the Napoleon Code, and which was retained in the Code
of 1825 as article 2252.
But no ratification or' confirmation exists in this casei be-

cause, 1st. The original sales, being absolute nuities, are not suscepti-

JANUARY TERM,, 1846.

551

Michoud et al. v. Girod et a.

ble of ratification. If it was the intention of the injured. party to
sanction them, nothing less than a now sale would have teen required to accomplish this object. Acts infected with a radical
nullity cannot be ratified ; they must be made anew. - Solon, Th&.
orie sur la Nullit6, vol. 2, pp. 262, 292, 294; 296, 301, 321,
327, 328, 373 et, seq., 406 ; Troplong on Prescription, n. 90S
-907.
2d. If considered as an express ratification of its fraudulent sales
and judgments, the receipts are inoperative, for they do not contain, in the words of the law (Code of 1808, p. 310, art. 238),
"the mention of the motive of the action of rescission, and the in.
tention of supplying the defect on which that action is founded."
3d. If considered as a tacit ratification, all the authorities concur that all the facts and circuipstances must be fully and completely known, and that the act relied on 'as a tacit ratification can
e susceptible of no oihe6r interpretation. .Rivas's Heirs v. Bernard, 13 Louisiana R. 175, and authorities there cited; Copeland v. Mickie, 17 ibid. 293;,2 Solon, p. 370 ; Perrin, Trait6
des Nullit~s, p. 350.
16. The defendants also rely, in their printed argument, on the
prescription of five years, established by. art.. 3507 of the Code of
1825. This prescription was not pleaded by them:. Had it been,
the answer would be, that it applies, in terms, to "contracts, testaments, and other adts,1' like art. 204, p. 303, of the Code of
1808 ; and that it does not extend to cases of fraud, which are
exclusively provided for in the last-mentioned article.
17. If the case be tested by the rules of chancery, the resale
would be the same.
In chancery, a purchase by a trustee can be cured by lapse of
"fme.
The cases on this subject are nowhere better reviewed than in
Kane v. Blooidgood, 7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 90. But the statute of
limitations begins to run ofly from the open disavowal 6f the trust.
In this case, the possession vas not known to the heirs to be
adverse to the trust, except from the time when they were informed that the sales to Laignel and St. Felix were simulated. Until
thei, they believed the executors to be, as thb executors pretended themselves to be, bona fide purchasers from Laignel and St.
Felix, who, it was believed and represented, were themselves serious purchasers from the estate.
The courts of the United States, sitting as courts of equity,
apply the statutes of limitations of the respective States. 6 Peters,
291 ; 16 Peters, 455, 495 ; 11 Peters, .369, 393,.406.
When the statute limits not at law, the same length of time is
not a bar in equity. Boone v. Chiles, 10 Peters, -177 ; Cook v.
Ankam, 6 Cond. Rep. 287; Baker v. 'Whiting, 3 Sumner, 486.
" In a case of trusts of lands, nothing short of the statute peri-

W2

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

od which would bar a legal estate or right of entry would be permitted to operate in equity as a bar of the equitable estate."
Judge Story, in Baker v. Whiting, 3 Sumner's Rep. 486.
It has been seen that no other prescription but that of tr
years would, by the law of Louisiana, bar the action of revendication.
Nothing is better settled, in the law of chancery, than that, in
cases of fraud, the statute of limitations does not begin to run until a full discovery of the- frauds practised. Boone v. Chiles, 10
Peters, 223 ; Aylward v. Keamey, 2 Ball & Beat. 476 ; Murray
v. Palmer, 2 Sch. & Lef. 486 ; Hovenden v. Lord Anndsley,
2 Sch. & Lef. 632 ; Bond v. Hopkins,, 1 Sch. & Lef. 413 ;
1 Hovenden on Frauds, 480 ; Croft v. Adm'rs of Townsend, 3
Dess. 239 ; Wamburzee v. Kennedy, 4 Dess. 474, 485, 489;
Randall v. Errington,-10 Ves. 423.
And vague rumors. and reports do not constitute that kind of
knowledge of the fraud which will give course to the statute of limitations. Flagg '.
-Mann, 2 Sumner, 491, 551, 563 ; Irby v.
M'Crae, 4 Dess. 431 ; Randall v. Errington, 10 Ves. 423 ; 11
Louisiana R. 139 ; Conway v. Williams's Adm'r, 10 ibid. 568;
Tyson v. McGill, 15 ibid. 145.
The acquiescence and ratification of two of the complainants is
attempted to be inferred from their receipts. These parties assuredly knew nothing of the frauds of the executors when they
signed the receipts, and acted with blind confidence. In equity,
as long as the injured p1arty does not know the full extent of his
rights, and that the transaction is impeachable, any act done by him
subsequently will not amount to a ratification or confirmation. As
long as the dependence of the cestui quc trust upon the trustee and
the fiduciary relation continues, an alleged ratification will always
be scrutinized with the utmost jealousy; and a party possessing
only imperfect information cannot be held guilty of laches. 1 Stokry's Equity, § 345 ; Butler v. Haskell, 4 Dess. 651, 709 (where
the principal cases are reviewed); Murray v. Palmer, 2 Sch. &
Lef. 486 ; 1 Hovenden on Frauds, 152, 484 ; Purcell v. McNamara, 14 Yes. 107, 120; Cole v. Gibbons, 3 P. W. 293 ;
Brooke, Ex'r, v. Gally, 2 Atkyns, 34 ; Cole v. Gibson, I Yes.
sen. 507 ; Taylor v. Rockfort, '2 Yes. sen. 281 ; Roche v.
O'Brien, 1 Ball & Beat. 230; Morse v. Royal], 12 Ves. 364;
Wood v. Downes, 18 Ves. 120.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The conclusions to which we have come in this cause do not
require from us any comment upon its facts.
We concur with the learned judge in the Circuit Court, in setting aside the purchases by which Nicholas Girod and Jean Francois Girod became the possessors of their testator's entire estate.

JANUARY

TERM, 1&46.

553

Michoud et al. v. Girod et at.

But the morality pnd policy of the law, qs. it is administered ki
courts of 6quity, induce us to add, that thos purchases were
fraudulent and void, and may :be declared to- be so, without any.
further inquiry, upon the ground that they.were made by the intertrention of persons -who were nominal buyers of the property for
the purpose of conveying it to the executors. Such a transaction
carries fraud upon th face of it. Lord Hardwicke v. Vernon, 4
Ves. jun. 411 ; 14'Ves. jun. 504 ; 2. Bro. C. C. .410,note. It
matters not, in such a case, whether the sales are made with ,o
without the sanction of judicial authority, or with ministerial einetness. The rule of equity is, in every code of juisprudenee with
which we are acquainted, that a purchase by a trustee or agent ot
the particular property of-which he--has the sale, or in which he
represents another, whether he has an interest in it or not,-pw
interpoitam personam, --- carries fraud on the face of it. In OlU
instance, Laignel and St. Felix *ere the instruments. of tfe executors. They bid off the property, paid nothing, received ii
ties, and conveyed what they nominally bought to the executom
In this way Nicholas Girod became the purchaser of all the testa.
tor's property in New Orleans, and himself and his brother Jean
Frano~is, the other executor, were joint- purchasers of: the. lan&
and slaves in the parish of Assumption, and of the testator's lands.
elsewhere. Jean Frauois, some years afterwards, sold out his
half of their joint purchase to Nicholas, for seventy thousand dollars. Thus the latter became the possessor of the entire estate,1
and held it until he died, to the exclusion of all the other testamentary heirs. Some of those heirs, and the represefitatives of
others of them, now sue the representatives of Nicholas Girod,
and seek to set aside the purchases of the executors. They allege that they, were fraudulently made, ask that they may hawe
assigned to them their respective portions of the estate, with an
account of rents and profits excepting from their claim for the lat-ter the moiety which had been received by Jean Fran~ois Girod.
The defendants reply, and deny fraud in fact or in intention on the
part of the executors. They declare, that the sales were judicially
ordered and conducted, that the purchases were 'rightfully made,
for a fair price, at public auction, that the complainants have no
standing in a court of equity by reason of their long silence, laches,
and acquiescence in the acts of which they complain, and that .
their rights are barred by lapse of time, under the laws of Louisiana. They also say, that receipts or acquittances were given to
the executors by two of the complainantsi which are valid and obligatory upon them. The bill and answers, and the argumeilts of
the learned counsel for the appellants, then, involve, the question
of the right of executors to purchase any part of the estate which
they administer, for a fair price, at a public sale judicially ordered
and conducted.. Remarkin, first, that an executor or administraVOL. IV.
70
UU

554

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

tor is in equity a trustee for heirs, legatees, and creditors, we proceed to give our opinion of the law in respect to purchases of the
estate represented by them, and of purchases made by other trustees
and agents, and all persons gui ne,,otia alienagerunt. The rule as
to persons incapable of purchasing particular property except under
particular restraints, on account of the rules of equity, is compendiously given by Sir Edward Sugden, in his second section of purchases. by trustees, agents, &c. It has been adopted 'by almost
every subsequent writer, and we cite -the passage with confidence,
having verified its correctness by an examination of all the cases
cited by him ; by an examination, also, of other cases in the English courts, ana of cases in the courts of chancery of several of
the States in our Union, sustaining the doctrine, to the fullest extent, of the incapability of-trustees and agents to purchase particular property, for the sale of which they act representatiely, or in
whom the title may be for another. He says, --- " It may be laid
down as a general proposition, that trustees, -unless
they are
nominally such to preserve contingent remainders, - agents, commissioners of bankrupts, assignees of bankrupts, solicitors to the
commission, auctioneers, creditors who have been consulted'as to
the mode Qf sale, or any persons who, by their connection with any
other person, or by being employed or concerned in his affairs,
have acquired a knowledge of his property, are incapable of purchasing, such property themselves, except under the restraints
which will shortly be mentioned. For if persons having a confidential character were permitted to avail themselves of any knowledge acquired in that capacity, they might be induced to conceal
their information, and not to exercise it for the benefit of the persons relying upon their integrity. The characters are inconsistent.
Emplor emit quam minimo potest, venditor vendit quam maximo
potest." 2 Sugd. Vendors and Purchasers, 109, London ed.,
1824.* The principle has beern extended to a purchase by an
* Trustees.- Fox v. Mackreth, 2 Bro. C.C. 400; 4 Bro. P. C. (Tomlins's) 258;
Hall V. Noyes, 3 Bro. C. C. 483, and see 3 Yes. jun. 748; Kellick v. Flexny, 4

Bro. C. C. 161; Whitcote -. Lawrence, 3 Ves. jun. 740; Camp bell v. Walker, 5
Ves. jun. 678,'and Whiteckre v. Whitackre, Sel. Chan. Cases, 13.
Remainders.-

See Parks v White, 11 Yes. jun. 26.

.qgents. - York Buildings Company v. Mackenzie, 8 Bro. P. C. 42; Lowther v.
Lowther, 13 Yes. jun. 95; see Watr . Grove, 2 Sch. & Lef 492; Whitcomb v.
Minchin, 5 Madd. 91; Woodhouse r. Meredith, 1 Jac. & Walk. 204.
Commissioners of BankrTls.- Ex parte Bennet, 10 Ves jun. 381 ; E parke
Dumbell, Aug. 13,1806, Mont., notes, 33, cited; Ex parte Harrison, I Buck, 17.
bsignees of Bankrupts.- Ex parte Reynolds, 5 Yes. jun. 707; Ex parte La-

cy, 6y es. Jun. 625 ; Ex parte Bage, 4 Madd. 459;. Ex parse Badcock, 1 Mont. &
Mac. 231.

Solicitors to the Commission,- Owen v. Foulkes, 6 Ves. jun. 630, note b; Ex

parte Linwood , Ex parte Churchill, 8 Ves. jun..343, cited; Ex parte Bennet, 10
Ves.jun. 381; Ex parte Dumbell, Aug.,13, 1806, Mont., notes, cited; see 12 Ve.

jun. 372; 3 Mer. 200."
a t
Auctioneers, creditors consulted as to mode of sale, or any persons w by their
ocetion wcith, or concern in, the affairs hare acquired a knmoledge, 4i. - See Ex
parte Hughes, 6'Ves. jun. 617; Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Ves. jun. 234'; 1 Smith's

Ra. 233" Oliver v. Court, 8 Price, 127.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

555

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

attorney from his client whilst the relation subsists. Bellew ,.
Russell, 1 Ball & Beatty, 96 ; 9 Ves. jun. 296 ; 13 Ves. jun.
133. As to gifts. Lord Selsey v. Rhoades, 2 Sim. & Stu. 41 ;
Williams v. Llewellyn, 2 You. & Jer. 68 ; Champion v. Rigby,
1 Russ. & Myl. 539. Nor can an arbitrator buy up the unascertained claims of any of the parties to the reference. Blennerhasset v. Day, 2 Ball & Beatty, 116 ; Canev. Lord Allen, 2 Dow,
289. Where a person cannot purchase the estate himself, he
cannot buy it as agent for another. 9 Ves. jun. 248; Ex parte
Bennet, 10 Ves.jun. 381.
The general rule stands upon our great moral obligation to refrain from placing ourselves in relations which ordinarily excite a
conflict between self-interest and integrity. It restrains all agents,
public and private ; but the value of the prohibition is most felt,
and its application is more frequent, in the private relations in which
the vendor and purchaser may stand towards each other. The disability to purchase is a consequence of that relation between them
which imposes on the one a duty to protect the interest of the
other, from the faithful discharge of which duty his own personal.
interest may withdraw him. In this conflict of interest, the law
wisely interposes. It acts not on the possibility, that, in some
cases, the sense of that duty may prevail over the motives of selfinterest, but it provides against the probability in manyvases, and
the danger in all cases, that the dictates of self-interest will exercise
a predominant influence, and supersede that of duty. It therefore prohibits a party from purchasing on his own account that
which his duty or trust requires him'to sell on acdount of another,
and from purchasing on account of another that which he sells on
his own account. In effect, he is not allowed to unite the two opposite characters of buyer and seller, because his interests, when
he is the seller or buyer on his own account, are directly conflicting
with those of the person on whose account he buys or sells. 2
Burge's Comm. 459. Cases have been frequently decided in the
courts of Louisiana, which maintain the rule in all its integrity. In
Pehnsylvania it is enforce&, though, on looking over its reports, we
find a case, but unsustained by any reference to adjudged cases, in
which it is said that an executor might buy at a sale of the testator's effects, if he did so for a fair price, at public auction. In
Maryland, the courts of chancery carry out the rule to the fullest extent of the principles upon which it is founded, and as they have-just
been stated byus. In the case of Wormley v. Wormley, 8 Wheat.
421, this court declared, that no rule is better settled, than that a
trustee cannot become the purchaser of the trust estate. He cannot be, at the same time, vendor and vendee. It had been previously ruled, in the case of Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481, and
this court afterwards, in Ringo et al. v. Binns et al., reaffirmed the'
rule, by its application to an agent who had bought land to which

556

,SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. r. Girod et al.

his principal was in equity entitled. It said, " The proposition laid
down by' this court is, that if an agent discovers a defect in the title
of his- principal t6 land, he cannot misuse it to acquire a title for
himself ; and if he does, that he will be held as a trustee holding
for his principal." 10 Pet. 269, 281. See also the case of Oliver
v. Piatt, 3 How. 333. It is also affirmed, in Church v. Marine
Insurance Company, 1 Mason, 341, that an agent or trustee cannot, directly or indirectly, become the purchaser of the trust property
which is confided to his care. We scarcely need add, that a purchase by a trustee of his cetui que trust, 8uijuris, provided it is
deliberately agreed or understood between them that the relation
shall be considered as dissolved, "and there is a clear contract,'
ascertained to be such, -after a jealous and scrupulous .examination
of all the circumstances, and it is clear that the cestui que trust
intended that the trustee 'should buy, and there is no fraud, no
concealment, and no advantage taln by the trustee of information
acquired by him as trustee," will b6 sustained in a court of equity.
But it is difficult to make out such a case, where the exception is
taken, 6specially when. there is any inadequacy of price, or any
inequality in the bargain. Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Ves. 246 ; Fox
v. Mackreth,'2 Bro. Ch. R. 400; Gikson v. Jeyes, 6 Ves. 277 ;
Whichcote v. Lawrence, 3 Ves. 740; Campbell v. Walker, 5
Ves. 678 ; Ayliffe v. Murray, 2 Atk. 59. And therefore, if a
trustee, though strictly honest, should buy for himself an estate
from his cestui que trust, and then should sell it for more, according
to the rules of a court of equity, from general policy, and not from
any peculiar imputation of fraud, he would be held still to remain a
,trustee to all intents and purposes, and not be permitted to sell to
or for himself. 1 Story's Com. on Equity (2d ed.) 317 ; Fox v.
Mackreth, 2 Bro. Ch. R. 400; S. C., 2 Cox, 320, 327,
In New York there has been no relaxation of it, since the decision
in the case of Davoue v. Fanning, 2 Johns. Ch. 252. It is a critical
and able review of the doctrine, as it had been applied by the English
courts of chance.y from an early day, and has been received, with very
few exceptions, by our State chancery courts, as altogether putting
the rule upon its proper footing. Indeed, it is not too much to say,
that it has secured the triumph of the rule over all qualifications and
relaxations of it in the United States, to the same extent that had
5een achieved for it in England by that great chancellor, Lord
Eldon. Davoue v. Fanning was the case of an executor for whose
wife a purchase had been made by one Hedden, at public auction,
bon4 fide, for a fair price, of a part of the estate which Fanning
administered, and the prayer of the bill was, that the purchase
might be set aside, hnd the premises resold. The case was examined with a special reference to the right of an executor to buy
any part of the estate of his testator. And it was affirmed, and we
think rightly, that if a trustee, or person'acting for others, sells the

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

557

Michoud et &L.v. Girod et al.

trust estate, and becomes himself interested in the purchase, the
testuis que trust are entitled, as of course, to have the purchase
set aside, and the property re~xposed to sale, under the direction
of the court. And it makes no difference in the application of the
rule, that 'a sale was at public auction, bona fide, and for a fair
price, and that the executor did not purchase fQr himsel4but that a
third pers6n, by previous arrangement -with the executor, became
the purchaser, to hold in trust for the separate us and benefit of
the wife of the executor, who was one of the cestuis que trust, and
who -bad an interest in the land tinder the will of the testator. The
inquiry, in such a case, is not whether there was or was not fraud
in fact. The purchase is void, and will be set aside at the instance
of the cestui que trust, and a resale ordered, on the ground of the
temptation to abuse, and of the danger of imposition ina6cessible
to the eye of the court. We are aware that cases may be found,
in the reports of some of the chancery courts in the United States,
in which it has been held that an executor may purchase, if it be
without fraud, any property of his testator, at open and public sale,
for a fair price, and that such purchase is only voidable, and not
void, as we hold it to be.- But with all due respect for the learned
judges who have so decided, we say that an executor or administrator is, in equity, a trustee for the next of kin, legatees, and
creditors, and that we have been unable to find any one well considered de6ision, with other cases, or any one case in the books, to
sustain the right of an executor to 'become the purchaser of the
property which he represents, or any portion of it, though he has
done so for a fair price, without fraud, at a public sale. Why
should the rule be relaxed in the case of persons most frequently
exposed ,to the temptations of self-interest, who may yield to it
more readily than any others, with a larger impunity, if the day of
equitable retribution shall ever come for those'who have been defrauded ? Is it not better that the cause of the evil shall be prohibited, than that courts of equity shall be relied tipon to apply the
remedy in particular cases, by inquiring into all the circumstances
of a case, whether there has or has not been fraud in fact ? Is the
rule to be relaxed, in the case of executors, in respect to all persons
interested in the estate, or only to such of them as are sui juris .2
And if only to those who are sui juris, why in case of an executor as to such persons, when the rule has never been relaxed by any
court of equity to permit purchases by any other trustee or agent
of one who is sui jurii? Shall it be relaxed in cases of those
who are interested in the estate, and who are not sui juris or minors ? Then othey remedies must be devised to protect their
interests than'that which experience has shown to be alone efficacious. It is, that when a trustee for one not sui juris sees that it
is absolutely necessary that the estate must be sold, and he is ready.
to give more for it than any One else, that a bill should be filed,
UU*

558

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et a]. v. Girod et al.

and he should apply to the court by motion, to let him be a purchaser.
Tfiis is the only way he can protect himself. There are cases in
which the court wXl permit it. Campbell v. Walker, 5 Ves. jun.
478 ; 13 Ves. jun. 601; I Ball & Beatty, 418.
Such is the proceeding adopted in Louisiana, when property in
which a minor is interested is offered for sale, as may be seen by
the case in 5 Louisiana R. 16, McCarty v. Steam Cotton Press
Company et al. The property was sold at auction, and the mother
of the minor became the purchaser. It was contended that this
purchase was null and void, because the property had descended to
the children immediately after the death of the father, and the mother, who, by the effect of the law, was. their natural tutor, could not
buy it. The court said it was a general rule. But it having been
shown that the mother and purchaser had petitoned the Court of
Probates for a iatification of the sale, and that the court had ratified
it upon the advice of a family meeting, the sale was confirmed.
And the court held, that under the Spanish law (20) a tutor
could purchase the property of his ward, with the permission of the
judo.
We have said more upon the relaxation of the rule in the case of
executors thap we would have done, if the learned c6unsel for the
appellantd had not pressed, as an exemption from the rule, purchases
made by executors without fraud at open sale, especially when by
the will they were empowered to sell the estate of their testator for
thebenefit of heirs and legatees, and were heirs or legatees themselves.
And if it had not been urged, that the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana were unsafe guides in interpreting the Spanish
laws in respect to .the incapacity of persons to purchase at judicial
sales particular property, on account of the official or financiering relation in which they stood, to the persons who owned the property.
It was supposed that the qualifications of the rule by.the civil law embraced executors, or might do so by the "eason upon which those qualifications were sustained. It imposes'apon us the task of showing,
that the relaxations of the rule by the civil law were never permitted
by the Spanish law which prevailed in Louisiana, and were never
extended under the civil law, to permit the executor testamentarius
or executor dativus to buy the property which he was appointed to
administer. It is a subject of curious and instructive exan ination
to trace the rule or prohibition, in the course of its application under.
the jurisprudence of different nations. In all of them, there. were
limited ad occasional relaxations of the rule in particular cases,
in what are sometimes called hard cases, but in no one nation have
purchases by executors been permitted, as a relaxation of the civil
law rule. For a general historical examination of the subject, we
have not time ; we wish we had. A brief examination, however, of
the qualifications of the rule. by the ciil law will, not be inappropriate upon an appeal from a court held in Louisiana, where the civil

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Michoud et al v.

559

irod et al.

law exists in a modified form, and is still often the rule of decision
by its 6nlightened jurists. The prohibition of the civil law is thus
expressed : -"
Tutor rem pupili emere non potest ; idemque porrigentdum est ad similia, id est, ad curatores, procuratores, et qui
negotia aliena gerunt." Dig., Lib. 18 tit. 1, 1. 34 ; Inst., Lib.
1, tit. 21, 23.
The rule as expressed embraces every relation in which there
may arise a conflict between the duty which the vendor or purchaser owes to the person with whom he is dealing, or on whose
account he is acting, and, his own individual interest. Nor was it
ever relaxed oi qualified by the civil law, further than to allow the
guardian to purchase the property of the 'Ward, palam et bona fide,
at public auction. "Cum ipse tutor nihil ex -bonis pupilli, quo
distrahi possunt,. comparare' palam et bona fide prohibetur ; multo
magis uxor ejus hoc facere potest."' Cod., Lib. 4, tit. 38, L 5.
But foreseeing the mischief which might grow out of the relaxation,
it required that the purchase must be made by the guardian himself,
-palamet bona fide, and not per interpositampersonam.
Sed si
per interpositam personam rem pupilli emerit, in ea causa ut emptio
nuUius momenti sit, quia non bona fide videtur rem gessisse. Et ita
es rescriptum a D. Severo et Antonino." Dig., Lib. 26, tit. 5,1. 5,
§ 3. A purchase by a guardian from his co-guardian was permitted, if it took place in public, and bona fide. "Item ipse tutor et
emptoris et venditoris officio fungi non potest. Sed enim si contutorem habeat, cujus auctoritas sufficit, procul-dubio emere potest.
Sod si mali fide emptio intercesserit, nullius erit momenti, ideoque
nec usucapere potest. Sanei si sun mtatis factus comprobaverit
emntionem, contractus valet." Dig., Lib. 26, tit. 8' 1. 5, § 2.
The guardian might purchase at a sale made at the suit of a
creditor. " Si creditor pupilhi distrahat, aque emere bona fide
potent." Dig., Lib. 26, 1. 5, § 5. Such is the extent of the
qualification of the rule of the civil law. And, its limitation not
being well understood, persons have often been misled to apply it to
what they supposed to be analogous agencies, such as executors,
when there was no authority either in the text of the civil law, or in
the practice under it, for doing s6. But, further, those qualifications
of the rule mentioned were confined in practice to those territories.
in Europe in which the civil law prevailed without modificauon.
And it is remarkable, considering what were the influences upon
Christendom of the civil law, after its discovery- in the twelfth
century, - and when not until some time after it began to be used as
a rule of law by which public and private rights were determined,
when'in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries it was the study of the
wisest men, - it is remarkable that the qualifications of the rule, as
they have been stated, *ere considered imperfections, and were
rejected by every n~tion in Europe whose codes -are generally ad.
nitred to have been compiled from the civil law, with an intimate
"

560

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et a].

knowledge of human nature, as it has always shown its,-lf in the
business of life. Here, appropriate to what has been just said, is
the language of Pothier. "Nous ne pouvons acheter, ni par nousmemes, ni par personnes interposes, les choses que font partie des
biens dont nous avons l'administration ; ainsi un tuteur ne pent
acheter les choses qui appartiennent . son mineur ; un administrateur ne peut acheter aucune chose de bien dont ila l'administtion."1
Tr. du Contrat de Vente, part. 1,n. 13. The rule of the civil
law, without qualification, is adopted in the codes of Holland.
"Qua vero de tutoribus cautA, eaquoque in curatoribus, procuratoribus, testamentorum executoribus, aliisque similibus, qui aliena gerunt
negotia, probanda sunt.". Voet., Lib. 18, tit. 1, n. 9 ; 2 Burge's
Comm. 463. In Spain, the rule was enforced without relaxation,
and with stem uniformity. Judge McCaleb cites in bis opiniony
from the'Novissinma Recopilacion, therule, in the following words.
11 No man, who is testamentary executor or guardian. of minors, nor
any other man or woman, can purchase the property which they administer, and whether they purchase publicly or privately the act is
invalid, and on proof being made of the fact, the sale must be set
aside." This was the 1Itw of Louisiana when ther executors in
this instance made their ',urchases, and it is conclusive of the invalidity.
We have thus shown, that those purchases are fraudulent and
void, from having been made per interpositam personam, and if
they were not so on that account, that they are void by the rule in
equity in the courts of' England, and as it prevails in the courts of
equity in the United States. It has also been shown, that they
are void by the law of Louisiana, as it was when they were made
b7 the executors, and that such purchases never were countenanced in that State by any. qualification of the civil law rule prohibiting purchases by those who stood in such fiduciary relations
to others ; that the act could not be generally done, without creating a conflict between self-interest and integrity. In every aspect
in which we have viewed this case, we are called upon to direct
that the purchases made by Nicholas and Jean Frangois Girod
of their testator's estate should be set aside. We shall order
it to be done. Nor do we think that the complainants have lost
their rights by negligence, or by the lapse of time. We can only
see in their conduct the fears and forbearance of dependent relatives, far distant from the- scene of the transactions of which they
complain, desirous of having what was due to them, and suspecting it had been withheld, but unwilling to believe that they had been
wronged by brothers, with whom they had been associated in a
common interest by another brother who was dead. In a case. of
actual fraud, courts of- equity give relief after a long lapse of time,
much longer than has -passed since the executors, in this instance,
purchased their testator's estate. In general, length of time is no

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

561

Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

bar to a trust clearly established to have once existed ; and where
fraud is imputed and proved, length of time ought not to exclude
relief. Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481. Generally speaking,
when a pdrty has been guilty of such laches in prosecuting his equitable title as would bar him if his title were solely at law, he will be
barred in equity, from a wise consideration of the paramount importance of quieting men's titles, and upon the principle that expedit rcipublicte ut sit finis litium ; although the statutes of limitations do not apply to any equitable demand, courts of equityadopt them ; or at least generally take the same limitations for
their guide, in eases analogous to those in which the statutes apply
at law. 10 Ves. 467 ; 1 Cox, 149. Still, within what time a
constructive trust will be barred must, depend -upon the circumstances of the case. Boone v. Chiles, 10 Peters, 177. There is
no rule in equity which excludes the consideration of circumstances, and, in a case of actual fraud, we believe no case can be found
in the books in which a court of equity has refused to give relief
within the lifetime of either of the parties upon whom the fraud is
proved,' or within thirty years after it has been discovered or becomes known to the party whose -rights are affected by it. In
this case, that time has not elapsed since the executors made their
purchases, and it is not pretended that they were known to any of
the complainants until the- year 1817, and not then, except by the
exhibition of an account by the executors .to some of the complainants, with declarations that every thing bad been fairly done
with a view to save the honor of the testator, and the interests of
tho'se who were the 'objects of his bounty. In' this view of the
case, it is not necessary for us to consider the time within which
remedies are barred, or property may be acquired by prescription,
under the laws of Louisiana. We would willingly otherwise do
so, for the result would show the'sanm harmony in the application
of the rules of the civil law and those of Louisiana upon prescription with the rules prevailing in courts of equity in England and
the United States, as we trust has been shown to exist between
them in the prohibition of an executor to buy the estate of his testator.
The receipts or acquittances given by two of the complainants to
the executors do not affect their rights. They were obviously
give; without full knowledge of all the circumstances connected
with the disposal and management of the estate. Indeed, it is
plain that such information had been withheld by the executors.
It is true that an account was presented to them, with official signatures to it, but without vouchers of any kind to verify its correctness, and it was accompanied by a letter from Nicholas Girod,
in which menaces of displeasure are mingled with intimations of
future kindness.
We shall also direct the official proceedings which were had
.71
VOL. IV.

562

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et'-al°

upon the account of Nicholas Girod, against the estate of Claude,
to be set aside and annulled. But there will be allowed to the
representatives of Nicholas, in the settlement of the estate, the sum
of $ 6,574-20, with interest at five per -cent. The proofs in the
cause show that, a few months before* the death -of, he- testator,
there had been a settlement of accounts between him and Nicholas,
and we allow that amount, as it is charged'in the general account)
disallowing all the other items. We suppose it to be an inadver-,
tency in drawing up the deciee, that the sum just mentioned was
not allowed, as the learned judge, in his opinion, states that a set-,
tlement had taken place, with that result.
We shall also direct that the actual cost of all permanent improvements which were made upon any part of the estate by Nicholas Girod shall be allowed to his representatives, with interest .at
five per cent. in the settlement which shall be made with the complaihants and the other~persons having an interest under the will of
Claude. And also an allowance for taxes, and the expenses and
cost paid in recovering the property gained by alluvion. A reference to a master will be directed. We regret to perceive from
the record, that all the persons who are interested in the estate of
Claude F. Gipod are not parties to this proceeding. We shall direct, that they shall be permitted to make themselves parties, if they
please to become. so. But in giving the order, it is not intended to
delay those fron receiving their portions in whose behalf this decree is made. The fruits of their vigdance can be apportioned
according to their respective rights in the estate, when one of the
original testamentary heirs claims, and the Circuit Court, ih the
further proceedings in the cause under the mandate of this court,
will of course take care to ascertain who are the representatives of
others of them who are dead.
Jean Francois Girod is not-auparty in this cause, and therefore
we can give no decree against him, but should he offer to become
a party for the purpose of claiming What under the will was his
portion of the estate of Claude, or should it be claimed by any
representative of his, we think'it right to remark, for the purpose
of preventing further litigation in this matter, that such claim will
be subject to all the equities subsisting between Jean Frangois and
Nicholas, and especially.to the allowance to the representatives of
Nicholas of the purchase money which was given by Nicholas-to
Jean, for the one half of their joint purbhase of the property oftheir testator, with interest at the rate according to their contract
up to the times when the purchase money was paid, and afterwards at five per cent.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern Dis-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

560

Michoud et al. v. Girod et aI.

trict of Louisiana; and was argued by counsel. "Wereupon it is
considered by the court, 1. That the plaintiffs are residuary legatees of Claude Francois
Girod, deceased, in the following proportion, namely: Peronne
Bernardine Girod, the widow of Jean Pierre Hector Pargoud, for
one eighth-; Rosalie Girod, the widow of Louis Adam, for one.
eighth ; Frangoise Peronne Quiitand, the wife of J. A. Allard, for
one forty-eighth ; Marie Philippine Rose Quitand, for one fortyeighth ; Marie Bernard Quitand, for one forty-eighth; Louis Joseph Poidebard, for one forty-eighth ; Benoite Collihie Nicoud, for
two two-hundred-and-eighty-eighths ; Maurice Emilie Nicoud, and
Jenny Benoite Nicoud, represented by Jean Berger, their tutor, each for two two-hundred-and-eighty-eighths ; Jean Franois
Girod, the nephew, in his own right, *and as testamentary heir of
Pierre Nicholas Girod, his brother, and represented by Jean Firman
Pepin, the syndic of his creditors, for one twentieth ; and FranIoise Clementine Girod, wife of Pierre Francois Pernond, for one
fortieth.
2. That the adjudication of landed property, with the slaves
thereto attached, situated on Bayou Laf6urche, made on the 18th
of February, 1814, to Charles St. Felix ; the retrocession of said
property by said Charles St. Felix to Nicholas and Jean Ftaucois
Girod, on the 23d of February, 1814; the adjudication of the
property situated in the parish of Orleans made to Simon
ignei
on the 9th of April, 1814, and the notarial seal made to the same
on the 26th of April, 1814, in pursuance of said adjudication ; and
the conveyance of said property to Nicholas Girod, of the 28th of
April, 1814, be set aside and annulled, saving, however, the just
rights of third persons, to whom two tracts of land on Bayou Lafourche, two slaves, and a piebe of ground in the city of New
Orleans were conveyed by the said Nicholas Girod in his lifetime,
as appears from the admissions in the pleadings.
S. That for the purpose of giving to the residuary legatees of
the late Claude Francois Girod their proportions respectively of
the estate of the testator, the said Circuit Court should direct either
a sale of the said property, both real and personal, at such time and
manner as said court shall see fit, or cause a partition in kind to be
made of said property, as in the judgment of the said court might be
deemed most advisable ; and that in either case the said court
should direct all the proper conveyances to be made accordingly.
4. And for greater certainty it is hereby declared, that the property, of which undivided portions are to be conveyed and assigned
to the plaintiffs ai aforesaid, is all the property and slaves which
were inventoried in the parishes of Ascension, Assumption, and
Lafourehe Interior, after the death of said Nicholas Girod, as belonging to his estate ; and all the property which was inventoried
after the death of said Nicholas Girod, as situated in the Municipal-

56

SUPREME COURT.
Michoud et al. r. Girod et a].

ity No. 2 of the city of New Orleans, including the property which
is an alluvion, and accessory to the property derived from the estates of Claude Francois Girod, and which was aba~doned to Nicholas Girod by the heirs of Bertrand Gravier, by an act of comp.iomise executed on the 29th day of March, 1823, and also the
house and lot situated at the corner of St. Louis and Chartres
Streets, in Municipality No. 1 of the city of New Orleans.
5. That the adjudication made in the Parish Court of the Parish,
of Orleans, in the year 1815, in favor of Nicholas Girod, for
$40,418"09, and claimed by the said Nicholas in the account filed
in the Court of Probates by Nicholas and Jean Ffan~ois Girod, in
May, 1817, be set aside, and instead thereof that the representatives of said Nicholas Girad be allowed, in the settlement of the
accounts by the master in this cause, the sum of $ 6,576"20, with
interest thereon at the rate of five per cent. per annum from the
1st day of August, 1813.
6. That the two acquittances and releases given, in 1817, by the
plaintiffs, Madame Adam and :Madame Pargoud, to Jean Fran ois
Girod, be set aside, and be allowed no other force or effect than
as acknowledgments of the receipt by Madame Pargoud for 5,242
francs 75 c., and by Madame Adam for the sum of 10;242 francs
75c., making respectively the sum of $ 975"15, and $ 1,905"15,
in the currency of the United States, as stated in said receipt;
and that the said amounts should be deducted from their portions
respectively in the distribution.
7. That a reference be made to a master in chancery to take an
account of what is due from the estate of Nicholas Girod to the
plaintiTs, on account of -the property belonging to the estate of
Claude Frangois Girod, and alienated by. said Nicholas Girod, for
rents and profits, and for interest ; and of what may be due by the
complainants to the estate of Nicholas Girod, for payments made
by the said Nicholas on account'of the debts of the said' Claude
Franjois Girod, and of the legacies paid by him, and of permanent
improvements ; and, in talng said account, said master shall charge
the said estate with the value of the crop .alleged to have been on
hand, when the property in Lafourche was adjudicated to Charles
St. Felix,. with interest thereon; with the amounts which, by the
aforesaid. account of 1817, the said e:iecutors acknowledged to have
received, or for which they consented to become responsible, from
the time the same were received ; with the price at which the two
tra2ts of land on Bayou Lafourche and the two slaves were sold,
and which are mentioned in the pleadings as having heretofore been
sold, with interest thereon from the time when, according to the bill
of sale, said price was payable ; with the sum of thirty-five thousand
dollars, this being the admitted value of the price of the ground
donated by Nicholas Girod to the Female Orphan Asylum, with interest thereon from the time said donation was made ;. with the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

565

Michoud et al. v. Giroa et al.

rents and profits of the plantation and slaves, the house at the
comer of Chartres and St. Louis Streets, and the property in
Faubourg St. Mary, now called the Second Municipality, rim the
adjudication of 1614, and at the rate which might reasonably, and
with a proper administration, have been obtained for the same, it
being understood that from the years 1829 and 1830, when the
property in Faubourg St. Mary, or Second Municipality, still undisposed of, was leased to John F. Miller, the rents and profits
thereon are to be charged at the rate at which the rent was stipulated in the lease to said Miller.
8. And the said master shall credit the estate of Nicholas Girod,
on said account, with the amount with which said executors -credited themselves in their account of the 23d of May, 1817, with interest thereon, except the personal claim of $40,418-09, in lieu
of which this court has directed the alloivance of $ 6,576-30, being one of the items of the general account which was claimed by
Nicholas Girod against Claude Francois Girod after the death of
the said Claude, and the estate of Nicholas Girod shall be credited
with any payments that have been made on account of legacies left
by the said Claude, with interest thereon. And the estate of the
said Nicholas Girod shall be credited with one half of the rents and
profits of the plantation and slaves of Bayou Lafourche, up to the
time when Jean Frangois sold his interest in the same to Nicholas
Girod. And the said master shall also credit the estate of the said
Nicholas Girod with, the actual cost in money expended by the said
Nicholas in permanent improvements, still in existence, of or upon
any part of the estate of Claude Franois Girod, including improvements of the property gained by alluvion, accessory to the
property derived from the estate of Claude Francois Girod, which
was abandoned to Nicholas Girod by the heirs of Bertrand Gravier, by an act of compromise, executed on the 29th of March,
1823, and the expenses and cost paid by him in recovering the alluvion before mentioned, and including also improvements on the
lot at the comer of St. Louis and Chartres Streets, and with improvements on the lands on Bayou Lafourche, deducting from these
last the value of the labor of the slaves on the said plantation aiding and making such improvements, and of the materials pr6cured
from the same. And the actual cost in money of all improvements
made by said Nicholas shall be allowed, with interest at five per
cent. upon the same from the time it shall be ascertained or found
by the master that the sums were expended. And allowance is
also to be made to the estate of said Nicholas for all taxes paid on
the property of Claude Francois Girod. And the said master is
hereby authorized, for the discovery of the matters aforesaid, to
receive from the parties, upon oath, books, and papers, and writings
in their custody and power relating thereto, and. also to examine
witnesses orally or upon written interrogatories, in regard to the cost
VOL. iv.
vy

b06SUPREME

COURT.
Michoud et al. v. Girod et al.

of all improvements,'due notice of his proceedings in this matter
being given to the parties or their attorney.
9. And the said master shall compute what amount of the balance so to be found against the estate of Nicholas Girod shall be
paid to each of the plaintiffs, according to their declared- proportionate interest in the estate of Claude Fran0is Girod, and said
balance shall be paid to them, with interest from the date up to
which the master's report may present a calculation of interest ;
and said payment shall be made by the dative testamentary executors of.Nicholas Girod, out of the funds of said estate, in preference
to any legacies under the will of said Nicholas Girod. And for
the better discovery of matters aforesaid, the parties are to produce
before the said master, upon oath, all books, papers, and writings
in their custody or power relating thereto, as the said master shall
direct. Andthe said master shall, when necessary, examine said
parties upon written interrogatories.
10. That any other person or persons, not now parties to the
proceedings, claiming title to the funds or estate in controversy,
or to any part thereof, should be allowed to present their claims
respectively before the said Circuit Court, to make due proofs thereof, and to become parties to the proceedings, for the due establishment and adjudication thereof. And that the costs of this suit which
have hitherto accrued in the said court should be paid by the said
dative testamentary executors out of the funds of said estate.
11. It is thereupon now here. adjudged and decreed by this
court, that so much of the decree of the said Circuit Court as conforms to the decree and opinion of this court be and the same is
hereby affirmed. And that this cause be and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to allow, any
person or persons not now parties and claiming title to any portion
of the estate in controversy to become parties to the suit, tQ present their claims and make due proof thereof, and for such further
proceedings to be had therein,.in conformity to the decree and
opinion of this court, as to law and justice shall appertain.

