JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

127

Brandon v. Loftus et al.

leaving any undue impression upon their minds as to the weight and
effect of the evidence from opinions that had fallen from it in the
course of the trial. For, after referring to the view taken in their
hearing on the motion for a monsuit, in which the court were obliged to express an opinion as to the tendency of the evidence on the
depositions, the jury were expressly advised, that they were not
bound by the construction given by the court, but could give such
construction as, in their judgments, the facts would warrant.
Even if an opinion had been expressed, in the course- of 'submitting the case, more pointedly, as to the bearing and tendency of the
evidence, than is to be found in this case in the record, after the
jury were advised, that they'were not intended as instructions, or to
be binding upon them, -- that the question was one of fact and construction, which they must consider and determine for themselves, we are not aware of any ground of reason or authority upon which
error'could be predicated for an interference with the rights of the
jury, but the contrary.
The cases of Evans v. Eaton (7 Wheat. 426), and Carver v.
Jackson, ex Dem. of Astor and others (4 Peters, 80, 81), need
only be referred to in confirmation of the position.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the judgment of the Circuit
Court should be affirmed.

GrxARD C., BRANDON,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. RALPH W.
AxD FLOYD WHITEHEAD, DEFENDANTS.

LoFTus

Under the statutes of Mississippi, providing for the admission of the evidence of a
notary public with regard to a protested note, directing the form ofproceeding
which the notary shall pursue, and providing further that justices of the peace
may, in certain cases, perform the duties of notaries public, itwas proper to read
in evidence the original paper of the acting notary, although the record was made
out at a time subsequent to that when the protest was actually made.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It was an action brought by the indorsee against the indorser of
a promissory note, under the following circumstances.
On the 12th of December, 1838, the following note was executed :-

Fort Atdams, December 12th, 1838.
On the first day of-January, A. D. 1841, we jointly and severally
promise to pay Gerard C. Brandon, or order, the sum of two thousand six hundred and sixty-seven dollars, value received, without
plea or offset, payable and negotiable at the Planters' Bank of the
State of Mississippi5 at Natchez.
(Signed,)
WILLIAM C. COLLINS,
JOHN C. COLLINS.
(Indorsed,) "Gerard C. Brandon," " Loftus & Whitehead."

128

SUPREME COURT.
Brandon v. Loftus et al.

The note was passed by the indorser, Brandon, to Loftus and
Whitehead, who were citizens of Virginia. It fell due upon the 4th
of January, 1841, and was not paid. In February, 1841, Lcftus
and Whitehead brought a suit against Brandon, and the cause cime
on for trial in June, 1842. Upon the trial, the plaintiffs offerei in
evidence the following paper, which was objected to by the defindant ; but being admitted, the, defendant took a bill of exceptions,
which is the only one in the record, viz. The plaintiff then, without any further proof, offered to read to
the jury, as evidence of the protest of said note, and to show nolice,
a certificate of James K. Cook, which was contained in a loose,
detached piece of paper, partly written and partly.printed, wiich
certificate is in the words and figures following, to wit :STATE oF Mississippi, Adams county :
I, James K. Cook, justice of the peace and ex officio notary
public in and for said county, residing in the city of Natchez, q'ialifled according to law, do hereby certify that, on the 4th day of January, in the year 1841, I went to the Planters' Bank of the Etate
of Mississippi, in NatchE z, and then and there presented for payrlent
the original note, of wh.ich the following is a true copy, together
with the indorsements on the back of said note:
Fort Aqdams, December 12th, 183E:.
On the first day of January, A. D. 1841, we jointly and seveially
promise to pay'Gerard C. Brandon, or order, the sum of two thousand six hundred and sixty-seven dollars, value received, witlhout
plea or offset, payable and negotiable at the Planters' Bank of the
State of Mississippi, at Natchez. WILLIAM C. COLLINS,
JOHN C. COLLINS.
(Indorsed,) " Gerard C. Brandon," "Loftus & Whitehead."
And I then and there, demanded/payment of the said note according to its tenor and effect, and was answered by the teller of the
said bank that the said note would not be paid, and that no ftnds
were deposited in said bank for that purpose ; and the said note was
not paid by any person when payment thereof was demanded as
aforesaid. Whereupon I protested said note for nonpayment, and
notified the parties thereto of said demand, nonpayment, and prolest,
and that the holder of said note looked to them for payment ther eof,
which notices were given at the times, and addressed to and directed in the manner following, to wit :- To Gerard C. Brandon, at P'ort
Adams, Miss. To Gerard C. Brandon, at Pinckneyville, Miss.
To Gerard C. Brandon, at Woodville, Miss. ToW. C. and J. C.
Collins, at Concordia, Louisiana.
All of which notices, directed to the parties respectively as afiresaid, were placed by me in the post-office at Natchez in time tc go

JANUARY TERM, 1846..

129

Bruandon v. Loftus et al.

out by the first mail of the day next succeeding that on which said
note was protested as aforesaid.
Which facts constitute, as herein set forth, a full and true record
of all thatwas done by me in the premises.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
[L. S.] my official seal this 27th day of January, 1841.
JAMES K. COOK, J. P. .N'otary.
STATE OF MISSISSIPPI, qfdams county:
Personally appeared before the undersigned justice of the peace
for the county aforesaid, James K. Cook, a justice of the peace and
ex officio notary public, whose name is signed to the foregoing, and
made oath that the same is a true statement, in substance and in
fact, of his official acts and doings altogether in relation to the premises.
JAMES K. COOK.
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 27th day of January,
1841.
M. ROBETAILLE, J. P.
To the admission of which as evidence to the jury the counsel of
defendant objected, but the court 9verruled the objection, and permitted said certificate to go to the jury as evidence of its contents ;
to which decision of the court, in then and there admitting said certificate, and permitting it to be read in evidence, the counsel'for the
defendant excepted, and reserved his exception. He therefore prays
that this his bill of exceptions may be signed, sealed, and .made a
part of the record; which is done accordingly.
J. McKINLEY. [SEAL.]
To review this decision of the Circuit Court, a writ of error
brought the case Up to this court.
It was argued by .4fr. ,Mason (Attorney-General), for the plaintiff in error, and .Mr. Robert J. Brent, for defendants.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question in this case is, whether a notarial act of protest
was prbperly admitted in evidence to fix an indorser on a negotiable
note payable in bank.
The statute of Mississippi (H. & H. Digest, 609, sec. 33)
provides; that in all cases where it may be necessary to have the testimony of a notary public in any suit touching a protested note, bill
of exchange, or other instrument, the official act of such notary, certified under his hand and attested by his notarial seal, shall be deemed, held, and taken to be conclusive evidence of the protest of such
note) bill, or other writing on-the day it purports to have been made ;
and the notary shall not be required to go beyond the limits of the
county of his residence to give evidence of the facts. The foregoing provision declares the force and: effect of the instrument.
VOL. IV.
17

SUPRE*ME COURT.
Brandon r. Loftus et al.

And then, the statute prescribes its form. When a notary ihall
protest an instrument, "1he shall make and certify on oath a full and
true record of what shall have been done thereon by him in relation
thereto; according to the facts, byfnoting thereon whether den: and
for the sum of money mentioned in the same was made, of whom,
and where ; when the requisite notice or notices were served, and
on whom ; where the same were mailed, if such be the case, %hen
mailed, to- whom and where directed ; and every other fact in any
manner touching the same shall be distinctly and plainly set forth in
the notarial record; and when so made out and certified, it shall
have the same validity, force, and effect in all courts of record in that
State, as if the notary were personally present and interrogatel in
court. "
Justices of the peace are authorized to perform the duties of n:taries, in particular instances, by another statute of Mississippi ; and
this notarial act was made by a justice of the peace.
The note on which the protest was founded was due the 4th of
January, 1841, payable and negotiable at the Plantems' Bank, at
Natchez; made by William C. and John C. Collins, to Gerard C.
Brandon, and indorsed by him ; and who is the plaintiff in error, and
was the defendant'below. Three duplicates fnotice are stated to
have been sent by mail to Brandon to different places. An obection was made in the Circuit Court to receiving the notarial ac'. in
evidence for any purpose, because it purports to be a record, oatiginal and of iself; and not a copy of a record from the notary's
book; which, it is insisted, it ought to be, and could only be.
After setting forth the facts of demand at the bank, and the answer of the teller, that the note would not be paid, because no funds
had been deposited for such purpose, and that a formal protest for
nonpayment had been made,,and also the fact of forwarding the
noticbs, the notary says,- 1 Which facts constitute, as herein set
forth, a full and true record of all that was done by me in the premises." To this is affixed the notarial seal, signature, and affidavit
of the notary. It was done on a separate paper, partly printed and
partly written; and offered in evidence as a record of the notarial
act within the meaning of the statute above recited.
In our opinion, the legislation of Mississippi is distinct and certain; it had reference to the usage of notaries public genera ly,
when making protests and giving notices; that usage we understand to be, for the notary to make the demand and give the notize,
and after doing so, to write out the facts in his memorandum-book,
or to preserve them otherwise ; and from these facts the record
contemplated by the statutes is made up ; and to it was done in
this instance, both in substance and form. To the paper having ,he
official seal and affidavit of the notary attached, the legislature refers ; and not to any previous writing.
It is supposed the case of Fleming v. Fulton (6 Sto. Mi. Rep.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

131

Garland v. Davis.

473) gives a different construction to the statute. The objection to
the record of protest there was, that it had not been made out and
sworn to at the time the protest was made; and such is the fact in
the case before us ; but the court held that the record might well
be made subsequently, and this for reasons, as we think, too obvious
to require explanation. Nor do we understand either of the remarks made by the High Court of Errors and Appeals of Mississippi in any degree impugned by our construction of the statute.
The judgment is therefore ordered to be affirmed, with costs.

HuGn A. GA

rvuw, PIL

ipr

IN ERROR,
PENDANT.

v. GEoRGE M. Divis, DE-

This was an action on the case, brought by Davis against Garland, the former
clerk of the House of Representatives. The declaration set out, by way of inducement, a contract between Davis and Franklin, the predecessor in office of
Garland, and then charged upon Garland a wrongful and injurious neglect and
refusal to furnish a copy of certain laws to Davis, as had been agreed by
Franklin.
The plea was "1non assumpsit," and the issue and verdict followed the plea.
This court can notice a material and incurable defect in the pleadings and verdict,
as the are represented in the record to have existed in the court below, although
such defect is not noticed in the bill of exceptions, nor suggested by the counsel
in argument here.
When a declaration sounds in tort and the plea is "non assumpsit," such a plea
would be bad, on demurrer. If not demurred to, ana the case goes to trial (the
isue and verdict following the plea), the defect is so material that it is not cured
by verdict, under the statute of jeoals.
Bad pleas, which are cured by verdict, are those which, although they would be
bad on demurrer because wrong in form, yet still contain enough of Rubitance
to put in issue all the material parts of the declaration.
The pyovision by Congress, in relation to amendments, which is found in the 32d
section pf the Judiciary Act of 1789, is similar to that of 32 Hen. 8, but certainly
not broader.
The issue was an immaterial issue.
The opinion of this court in Patterson r. The United States, 2 Wheaton, 221, reviewed and reaffirmed, namely, -" 1 Whether the jury find a general or a special
verdict, it is thei duty to decide the very point in issue, and although the court
in which it is tried may ive form to a general finding, so as to make it harmonize with the issue, yet if it appear to that court, or to the appellate court, that
the finding is different from the issue, or is confined only to a part of the matter
in issue, no judgment can be rendered on the verdict."
This principle applies equally to a plea varying from th6 substance of the declaration.
In this case, the verdict does not find any of the misfeasance charged upon the
defendant.
If the merits of the case were passed upon in the court below, it was illegally
done, because no evidence was competent except such as related to the promise
described in the declaration.
This court abstains from awarding a repleader, for the reasons stated in the opinion, but remands the case so that the pleadings may be amended.

THIS case was brought up, by writ if error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in
and for the county of Washington.

