JANUARY TERM, 1846.

645

Holliday; et al. v. Batson et al.

do. forthwith return any-such execution in your hands, together
with this supersedeas, to the said Circuit Court, as you will answer the contrary at your peril. And you, the judges of the
said Circuit Court, are hereby commanded to stay any execution
which may have issued as-aforesaid, and to stay any execution or
further proceedings on the aforesaid judgment of the said Circuit C6urt in this case, pending the writ of error last afoiesaid ino
this court.
Witness the Honorable ROGER B. TANEY, Chief
Justice of said Supreme Court, this 27th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and forty-six.
WM. THOS.
CARROLL,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States.

RoBERT HoLrvAY

T At. v. JQsEPH N. BATSOx ET AL.

In order to entitle a party to have a case docketed and dismissed, under the fortythird rule of court, the certificate of the clerk of the court below must set forth
an accurate titling of the case.

Barton having filed and read in open court a certificate in
.Mr.
writing, in the following words and figures, to wit :" Clerk's Office, Circuit Court, United States, 5th Circuit, and
IkAtern Districtof Louisiana.
CROBERT HOLLIDAY ET AL. V. JOSEPH N. BATSON ET AL.

"In the above-entitled cause, I certify that a final judgment was
rendered in the Circuit Court of the Unied States for the 9th
(now 5th) Circuit and Eastern District of Louisiana, on the twentieth day of January, eighteen hundred and forty-one, and that a
writ of error was taken by the defendants, returnable to the January
term, 1842, of the Supreme Court of the United States.
"Witness my hand, and the seal of said court, at New Orleans,
this 4th February, 1845.
[SEAL.]

DUNCAN N. HENNEN, Clerk."

and moved the court to docket and dismiss the said writ of
error, under the forty-third rule of court. It is thereupon now
here considered and ordered by the court, that the said motion be)
and the same is, hereby overruled, the titling of the case in the said
certificate being too vague and uncertain.
Per Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
The above motion was made and overruled at the preceding

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Rousseau et al.

term. At the present term, a certificate was filed, with a proper
titling, and, on motion of Mfr. 4ustis, the case was docketed and
dismissed.

JAxns. G.

WILSON. PLAINTIFF, v. LEwis

ROUSSnIu

AND

CHARLES

EAsT N.
The eighteenth section of the patent act of 1836 authorized the extension of a
patent, on the application of tie executor or administrator of a deceased patentee.
Such, an extension does not inure to the benefit of assignees under the orijinal
patent, but to the benefit of the administrator (when granted to an administrator), in-his capacity as such. But those assignees who were in the use of the
patented machine at the time of the renewal have still a right to use it.
The extension could be applied for and obtained by the administrator, although the
original patentee had, n his lifetime, disposed of all his interest in the then
existing patent. Such sale did not carry any thing beyond the term of the
original patebt.
A covenant by the-patentee, made prior to the law authorizing extensions, that the
covenantee should have the benefit of any improvement in the machinery, or
alteration or renewal of the patent, did not include the extension by an administrator, under the act of 1836. It must be construed to includb only renewals
bbtained upon the surrender of a patent on account of a defective specification.
Parties to contracts look to established and general laws, and not to special acts
of Conress.
A pjaintif therefore, who claims under an assignment from the administrator, can
maintain a suit against a person who claims under the covenant
An assignee of an exclusive right to use two machines within a particular district
!-.an maintain an action for an infringement ofthe patentwithin that district, even
against the patentee.
Ithe case of Woodworth's planing-machine, the patent granted to the administrator was founded upon a sufficient specification and proper drawings, and
is valid.
The decision of the Board of Commissioners, to whom the question of renewal is
referred, by the act of 1836, is not conclusive upon the question of their jurisdiction to act in a given case.
The Commissioner of Patents can lawfully receive a surrender of letters patent
for a defective specification, and issue new letters patent upon an amended specification, after the expiration of the term for which the orig,nal patent was
granted, and pending the existence of an extended term of seven Tears. Such
surrender and renewal m.y be made at any time during such extended term.

THis case, and the three subsequent ones, namely, Wilson v.
Turner, Simpson et al. v. Wilson, and Woodworth & Bunn v. Wilson, were-argued together, being known as the patent cases.* Many
of the points of law involved were common to them all, and those
which were fully argued in the first case which came up were hut
incidentally touched in the discussion of the subsequent cases.
* The reporter intended to publish the arguments of counsel in these patent
cases in extenso, and with that view applied for and obtained from many of
'the c6unsel their arguments prepared by themselves; but circumstances beyond
his control prevent hin from executing this purpose. He returns his thanks to
those gentlemen who so kindly furnished him with their arguments, and regrets
that his original design has been frustrated.

