242

SUPREME COURT.
Clifton r. The United States.

It is unnecessary to inquire whether the acknowledginent of the
femes covert is or is not in conformity with the statute of Mississippi. For, assuming-it to be entirely regular, it would not give
effect to the conveyance of their interests made by the husbands
alone. And as to the receipt of the money mentioned in the testimony, after they became sole, it certainly could not operate as a
legal 'conveyance, passing the estate to the grantee, nor give effect
to a deed which as to them was utterly void.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.

CHARLES CLIFTON, CLAULANT, PLAINTIFF IN EREOR,

v.

THE UNITED

STATES.

Upon the trial of a cause where goods bad been seized upon suspicion of being
fraudulently imported, and the United States had shown sufficient ground for an
opinion of the court that probable cause existed for the prosecution, and notice
had been given to the claimant to produce his books and accounts relating to
those goods, it -vas proper for the court to instruct the jury, that, if the claimant
had withheld the testimony of his accounts and transactions with the parties
abroad from whom he received the goods, they were lt liberty to presume that,
if produced, they would have operated unfavorably to his cause.
The doctrine laid down in 2 Evans's Pothier, 149, cited and approved, namely,
"1That if the weaker and less satisfactory evidence is given and relied on in support of a fact, when it is apparent to the court and jury that proof of a more direct and explicit character was within the power of the party, the same caution
which rejects the secondary evidence will awaken distrust And suspicion of the
weaker and less satisfactory, and it may well be presumed, that if the more per.open deficiences and objections
fect exposition had been given, it wouldhave laid
which the more obscure and uncertain testimony was intended to conceal."
The principle established in the case of Wood v. The United States (16 Peters,
34) reviewed and confirmed, namely,- 11That if goods are fraudulently invoiced, they are not exempted from forfeiture, by having been appraised in the
custom-house at valuations exceeding the prices in the invoices, and delivered to
the importers on payment of the duties assessed upon such increased valuations."
If the information contains several counts, founded on the following acts, namely,
the sixy-sixth section of the act of 17.99, the fourth section of the act of 183l,
and the fourteenth section of the act of 183-2, the defectiveness ofthe counts upon
the acts of 1830 and 1832 would be no ground for reversing a judgment of condemnation, provided the count is good which is founded upon the act f 1799;
because one good count is sufficient to uphold a general verdict and judgment.
The difference between these sections explalned.
In this case, therefore, it is unnecessary to, decide what averments are required in
counts resting upon the acts of 1830 and 1832, or whether the counts are or are
not void from generality.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for East Pennsylvania.
The facts are fully set forth in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. ,Meredith,for the plaintiff in er-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

243

Clifton v. The United.States.

ror, and .Mr. Cadwalladerid
for the United States.

Mr. Miaon (Attorney-General) '"

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of he court.
This is a writ of error from tbe judgment of the Cfrcuit Court
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, affirming a judgment of
the District Court of the same district.
The- original suit was a libel of information, in rem, founded
upon a seizure on land in the said district of some seventy-one
cases of cloths and cassimeres imported into the United States,
and alleged to have been forfeited.
The libel contained thirteen counts, resting upon different sections of the several acts of Congress regulating the collection of
duties 'on imports and tonnage ; but it will be material to notice
particular!y those only which are founded tipon the sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799 (ch. 22, Lit. & Brown's ed.), the fourth
section of the act of 1830 (ch. 147), and the fourteenth section
of the act of 1832 (ch. 227), which provide against the making
up of false invoices and false packages of the goods imported,
with the intent to evade or defraud the revenue.
Various pleas were put in by the claimant, but as no questions
are raised upon them, they need not be stated.
On the trial of the cause, it appeared that the goods in question
had been originally imported into the' prt of New York, and were
there duly entered ind landed; and the duties paid upon the invoices produced by the claimant to the collhctor. The goods
were appraised at the custom-house, at a valuation of ten per cent.
above the invoice prices, and no appeal taken. They were afterwards transported to the city of Philadelphia, and were there seized
by the custom-house officers, under a warrant issued for that purpose, in the stores of certain persons having the custody of them
in that city for the claimant.
A good deal of evidence was given on the part of the United
States, tending strongly to establish the fact, that the several invoices upon which the duties had been paid at the custom-house in
New York, and which invoices were produced before the court,
had been iiade up greatly under the actual cost and value of the
goods in England, the place of exporittion, and with the intent to
evade and defraud tie. revenue ; and in the progress of the trial,
the counsel for the government, in pursuance of a notice given
somd months previously, called upon the claimant for the production of his ledger containing entries of each of the several invoices of the goods thus imported; also, for the production of
his cash-book for the years 1838 and 1839, embracing the period
within which the goods had been imported, and for the entries
therein relating to the said importations; also, for the charges
of the payment of freight upon said goods ; - to each of which

244

SUPREME COURT.
Clifton v. The United States.

calls the counsel were answered, that the claimant had no such
book in court.
. The counsel for the government, like previous notice having been
given, also called upon claimant for the production of the accounts
in the ledger; for the years 1838 and 1839, with each of the houses
in England who had sold and invoiced the said goods to him, and
for his letter-book for said years, and the correspondence with each
of the said houses respectively, and also for his day-book ; to
which calls the counsel answered, that neither of them were in
court.
When the testimony closed, te court below instructed the jury
.that it was lalleged, on the part of the United States, that the goods
in question -had been forfeited, from having been imported into
New York by false invoices, With intent to evade the payment of
part of the duties to which they were subject. That it was incumbent upon the government to show upon the trial that there
was probable cause for the prosecution ; and if that had been
shown, of which the court was to judge, the burden of proof was
on the claimant, who must then satisfy the jury that the goods were
invoiced at their actual cost.
That with a view to show probable cause, the government relied
mainly upon the evidence, that the actual Value of the goods in
England exceeded the prices per yard mentioned in the invoices,
and that after the testimony which had been produced on the part
of the government of the value of the goods at the time and place
of exportation, as compared with the prices fixed in the invoices,
it was material to notice the negative evidence, arisiPg out of the
absence of testimony on. the part of the defendant of the actual
cost of the goods ; and to consider whether its absence had been
accounted for. That there wag evidence that one of the persons,
by whom a portion of the goods in controversy appeared to have
been invoiced to the claimants,.was within the-reach of a sibpcena,
and it was reasonable to presume that it yvas in the claimant's power
to have produced evidence of the real state of his accounts and
transactions with all the parties in Ergland from whom the goods
had been received, as the" correspondence showed that two years
ago his counsel had advised him to procure proof on this subject,
which had not been produced ; that the claimant knew from whom
he had bought the goods, and what their actual cost was, and yet
he had not produced the evidence, nor accounted for its absence ;
that to withhold testimony which was in the power of a party to
produce, in order.to rebut a charge against him, where it was not
supplied by equivalent testimony, might be as fatal as positive testimony in support or confirmation of the charge ; that if the claimant had withheld proof which his accounts and transactions with
these parties afforded, it might be presumed that if produced they
would have operated unfavorably to his case ; that the government

JANUARY TERM, 1846,

245

Clifton v. The Unite4 States.

had shown probable cause, and that the next inqury was, whether
the claimant had relieved himself from the burden of the proof, &.
The court further instructedthe jury, that in respect to some of
the invoices, the government and claimant relied upon the same
circumstance, namely, that goods included in the information, in
passing through the custom-house in New York, were appraised at
amounts exceeding the invoice prices) and that the cleaimant, without appealing, had paid the duties assessed upon the increased
•
value, and receivedthe goods from the custom-house.
The counsel for the government contended that this acquiescence
implied an admission that the invoices were untrue, while the counsel for the claimant contended, that by this appraisement, assessment, and payment of duty, the government were precluded fromalleging or enforcing a forfeiture of these goods. The court expressed the opinion, that the question of liability to forfeiture
was so far distinct from questions 'connected with the ascertainment and payment of duties, that the passing of goods
through the custom-house, under such circumstances, was not, in
a legal point of view, decisive of any question before the jury.
That the question was, whether the goods were falsely invoiced,
with intent to-defraud the revenue, &c.
The counsel for the claimant excepted to that part of the charge
in which th' jury were instructed, that, if the claimant had withheld the testimony of his accounts and transactions with the parties
abroad from whom'.he received the goods, they were at liberty to
presume that, if produced, they would have operatdd unfavorably
to his case ; and also to that part in which the jury were instructed,
that, if the goods in controversy were fraudulently invoiced, they
were not exempted from forfeiture by having been appraised in the
custom-house at valuations exceeding the prices in the ,invoices,
and delivered to the importer on payment of the duties assessed
upon the amount.of such appraisement ; and also to that part of
the instructions in which the jury were advised that probable- cause
bad been shown by the government in support of the prosecution.
A general verdict - as rendered for the United States.
As to the instrueions giveh to the jury first excepted to, in
which the court belcw expressed the opinion, "that if the claimant
had withheld proof which his accounts and transactions with the
parties afforded, it hnight be presumed that, if-produced, they
would have dperated unfavorably to his case " ; in order to comprehend fully the appropiiateness -and legality of the instructions,
it is material to refer to the posture of the case at the time they
were given, and to the question then under the consideration of the
court.
The counsel for the government had furnished proof tending
strongly to the conclusion, that the invoice prices of the goods in
and in the
question were greatly under the actual cost at the place
*
u

246

SUPREME COURT.
Clifton v. The United States.

country whence they were imported. This proof rested mainly
upon the testimony of several merchants, importers, and dealers in

the particular article, who had examined the goods and estimated
their cost.

The average estimate exceeded the invoice prices some fifty
per cent.

The counsel also, with a view of further strengthening their
case, and in pursuance of previous notice for that purpose, called
upon the claimant for the production of his books and papers containing an account of the several importations, and of his dealings
in respect to them with the foreign houses, together with his and
their correspondence concerning the same. Neither were produced, nor any account attempted to be given for the non-production.
Upon this the government rested. Probable cause for the
prosecution having been thus sufficiently established, the claimant
went into his defence ; and, instead of furnishing evidence of the
prices actually paid by him to the houses abroad from whom the
goods were purchased, as he might have done, either by executing
a commission to take their testimony, or by persons concerned in
making the purchases, or by the production of the books of account that had been called for, as the call afforded him an opportunity to put them in evidence, he placed the defence altogether
*upon the judgment and opinions of merchants and other persons
acquainted with this description of- goods, as to the value and cost
of the article in the home market, tending thereby to confirm and
support the correctness of the valuations as fixed in the invoices.
The burden of the case was upon the claimant, and it was in
this stage and posture of it that the instructions were given which
are the subject of the exception ; and in which the court stated,
"that the claimant knew from whom he had bought the goods,
and what was their actual cost, and yet had not produced this testimony, or accounted for its absence ; that to withhold testimony
which it was in the power of the party to produce, in order to rebut a charge against him, where it is not supplied by other equivalent testimony, might be as fatal as positive testimony in support
or confirmation of the charge. And that if the claimant had with-

hell testimony of his accounts and transactions with these parties
(meaning the foreign houses from whom he had purchased the
goods) , the jury were at liberty to presume that, if produced, they

vould have operated unfavorably to his case."
The instructions had a direct reference to, and are to be construed as intended to bear upon, the matters of defence, probable
cause having been shown ; and upon the nature and species of the
evidence relied on by the claimant in support of it ; and in this aspect of the case, at least, without now referring to any other, we
think thay were -hot only quite pertinent to the question in hand,

JANUARY

TERM , 1846.

247

Clifton v. The United States.

but founded upon the well established rules and principles of
evidence.
The prosecution involved in its result, not only the forfeiture
of a considerable amount of property, but also the character, of
the claimant, both as a merchant and an individual. He was
charged with a deliberate and systematic violation. of the revenue
laws of the country, by means of frauds andfperjuries, and the
court, as was its province, under the seventy-first. section of the
act of 1799, had pronounced the proof sufficient to establish the
offence, unless explained and rebutted by-opposing evidence.
Underithese circumstances, the claimant-was called'upon by the
strongest considerations, personal and legal, if innocent, to bring
to the support of his defence the very best evidence that was in his
possession, or under his control. This evidence was certainly
within his reach3 ancfprobablr in his counting-Loom, namely, the
proof of the actal cost of the goodg at'the place of expbrtation.
He not only neglected to furnish it, -an& contented, hi'hselfrwith the
weaker evidence, but even refused, to furnish it on the call of the
government; leaving, therefore, the obvious presumpticn to be
turned against him, that the highest and b, st evidence going to the
reality and truth of the transaction would not be favorable to the
defence.
One of the general rules of evidende, of uniVersal application,
is, that the best evidence of disputed -facts must be produced of
which the nature of the case will admit. This rule, speaking
technically, applies only to the distinction between primary and
secondary evidence; but the reason assigned for the application of
the rule in a technical sense is equally applicable, and is frequently
applied, to the distinction between the higher and inferior degree of
proof, speaking in a more general and enlarged sense of the terms,
when te.idered as evidence of a fact. The meaning of the rule is,
not that courts require the strongest possible assurance of the matters in question; but that no evidence shall be admitted; which,
from the nature of the case, supposes still greater evidence'behind
in. the party's possession or power.; because the absence of the
primary evidence raises a presumption, that, if produced, it.would
give a complexion to the case at least unfavorable, if not directly
adverse, to the interest of the party.
This is the reason! given for exacting, in all cases, the primary
evidence, unless satisfactorily accounted for. 1 Phillips on Ev.
218, 0. & H.'s notes,'414, 418, and cases.
For a like 'reason,-even in cases where the higher and inferior
testimony cannot be resolved into primary and secondary evidence,
technically, so as to compel the production of the higher ; and the
inferior is, therefore, admissible and competent without first -accounting, for the other, the same presumption exists in full force
and effect against the party withholding the better evidence ; es-

g48

SUPREME COURT.
Clifton v. The United State.

pecially when it appears, or has been shown, to be in his possession or power, and must and should, in all cases, exercise no inconsiderable influence in assigning to the inferior proof the degree
of credit to which it is rightfully entitled.
It is well Qbserved by Mr. Evans (2 Evans's Pothier, 149), in
substance, that if the weaker and less satisfactory evidence is given
and relied on in support of a fact, when it is apparent to the court
and jury that proof of a more direct and explicit character was
within the power of the party, the same caution which rejects the
secondary evidence will awaken distrust and 'suspicion of the
weaker and less satisfactory; and that it may well be presumed,
if the more perfect exposition had' been given it would have laid
open deficiencies and objections which the more obscure and uncertain testimony was intended to conceal.
We will only add, that practical illustrations of this application
of the rule are witnessed daily in the administration of justice in
criminal cases, and are too familiar to every lawyer to require a
more particular reference.
We are satisfied, therefore, that no error was committed by the
court below ingiving the instruction first excepted to.
The second exception was to that part of the charge in which
the court instructed the jury, that, if the goods were fraudulently
invoiced, they were not exempted from forfeiture by having been
appraised in the custom-house at New York at valuations exceeding the prices in the invoices, and delivered to the importers on
payment of the duties assessed upon the amount of such appraisement.
In respect to this instruction, it is only necessary to refer to the
case of Wood v. The United States (16 Peters, 342), in which
a similar one had been given, and came up for review, and the correctness of which was affirmed by the court.
The third and last exception taken was to the instruction, that
probable cause had been shown by the United States for the pros.
ecution, which was virtually given up on the irgument. There
can be no doubt as to its correctness.
In addition to the foregoing exceptions, the counsel for the
plaintiff in error insisted, on the argument, that the fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth, eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth counts in
the information, all of which are founded upon the fourth section
of the act of 1830 (ch. 147, Lit. & Brown's ed.), and the fourteenth section of the act of 1832 (ch. 227), were substantialy
defective, by reason of the generality.and uncertainty of the averments in each and every of the said counts ; and that, for this
reason, the judgment should be reversed.
It was not denied but that the fourth count, which is founded
upon the sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799 (ch. 22), was good
in form and substance, and sufficient, if it stood alone, to uphold

JANUARY TER[, 1846.

249

Clifton v. The United States.

the recovery ; but it was insisted, as the verdict and Judgment were
general upon all the counts in the information, that, if one or more.
were bad, an error 6xisted upon the" record for which, the court
was bound to reverse the judgment.
The sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799, vol. 1, p. 677 (Lit.
& Brown's ed.), provides, "that if any goods, wares, or merchandise, of which an entry shall have been made in'the office of a
collector, shall not be invoiced according to the actual cos thereof
at the place of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereupon, or any part thereof, all such goods, &c., shall be forfeited."
'The same section 'also provides for seizing the goods on suspicion of fraud, and detaining them for examination. This section
condemns the goods to forfeiture in cases where they are invoiced
below their actual cost at the place of exportation, with, intent to
defraud the revenue.
The fourth section of the act of 1830 provides, that the oollector shall cause at least one package out of every invoice, and
one package, at least, out of every twenty packages of each invoice, and a greater number if deemed necessary, of the goods imported, which'package or packages he -shall first designate on the
invoice, to be opened and examined ; and if the same be found not
to correspond with the invoice, or to be falsely charged in such invoice, the collector shall order, forthwith, all the goods contained
in the same entry to be inspected, and if subject to an ad valoren
duty, the same shall be appraised; and if any package ihall be
found to contain any article not described in -the invoice, or if
such package or invoice be made up wsith intent, by a false valuation, or extension, or otherwise, to evade or defraud the revenue,.
the same shall be forfeited.
This section condemns the goods to forfeiture,1. If the package is found to contain any article not in the invoice and,.
2. If it shall -he found that the package or invoice is made up
with intent to defraud the revenue by a false valuation or otherwise.
The fourteenth section of the act of 1832 provides, that whenever, upon opening and an examination of any package or packages of imported goods, composed wholly or in part of wool or
cotton, in the manner provided for by the fourth section of the act
of 1830, the goods shall be found not to correspond with the entry
at the custom-house, and the package shall be found to contain
any article not entered, such article shall be forfeited ; or if the
package be made up with intent to evade or defraud the revenue,
the package shall be forfeited, and so much of the said fourth
section as prescribes a forfeiture of the goods found not to correspond with the invoice is repealed.
This zection condemns to forfeiture,
VOL. IV.

32

250

SUPREME COURT.
Clifton v. The United States.

1. The article in the -package which it is found does not correspond with the entry ; and,
2. The package which it is found has been made up with intent to
defraud t4e revenue ; and,
3. Repeals that part of the fourth section in the act of 1830
which forfeits the package in which an article is found not corresponding with the invoice.
The fourth section of the act of J830, and fourteenth of 1632,
enlarge the grounds of forfeiture beyond the sixty-sixth section of
the act of 1799 ; but the frauds provided against in those sections,
and upon which the forfeiture proceeds, appear to be limited to
cases where the detection takes place in the course of the examination at the custom-house.
The sixty-sixth section limits the forfeiture to the case of fraud
in making up the invoice prices below the actual cost of the goods,
but leaves the time and place of detection unrestricted. Under
this section, whether the discovery of the fraud be made by the
custom-house officers while the goods are passing inspection, or
afterwards, is immaterial. In either case condemnatioif follows, as
has already been held by this court in the case of Wood v. The
United States (16 Peters, 342).
As already stated, it is not denied but that the condemnation
is well supported under the count founded upon the sixty-sixth
section': but it is insisted, that all the counts founded upon the
fourth section of the'act of 1830, and'the fourteenth of the act of
.- 1832, are substantially defective for their generality and want of
averments setting forth the special eircumstance of the examination and detection of thefraud under the authority of the collectors.
Whether this be so or not, it is unimportant to determine in this
case, as it was held, at an early day, in this court, that one good
count was sufficient to uphold a general verdict and judgment upon
all the counts, though some of them might be bad, the information
being regarded in the nature of a criminal proceeding. (Locke v.
The United States, 7 Cranch, 339; 1 Johns. R. 320 ; Doug. 730 3
8 Bac. Abr. 114.)
The same must have been virtually held in the cases of Wood
v. The United States, already referred to, and Taylor and others v.
The same (3 How. 197).
We will merely add, as to the sufficiency of the counts upon the
fourth section of the act of 1830 and fourteenth section of 1832,
that, by the sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799, the collector was
authorized, in case he suspected fraud in the invoice prices, to seize
the goods and detain them for examination as fully as is provided for
in the two sections of the acts of 1830 and 1832. There is no substantial differenec, in this respect, except that the latter makes it the
duty of the collectors, in all cases, to direct an examination before
the goods are allowed to pass through the cstom-house, whereas

JANUAIRY TERM, 1846.

251

Buckley v. The United States.

the sixty-sixth section left it as matter of discretion, 'depending
upon suspicion of fraud in the invoices.
Upon the whole, we are satisfied that the judgment of the Circuit
Court, affirming that of the District Court, is legal, upon all the
grounds which have been urged against it, and should be affirmed.

3AEs BucKLEY,

CrLAItT OF THREE BALES AND EIGHT CASES OF CLOTH,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.

In the trial of a cause where goods had been seized upon suspicion of being fraudulently imported, it was proper to allow to go to the jury, as evidence, appraisements of the goods made either by the official appraisers or appraisers acting under
an appeal, they being present to verifythe papers. The objection that the ap.
praisements had not been made in presence of the jury wds not sufficient.
Such papers are documents orpublic writings, not judicial, and may be used as didence, under the rules whic regulate all that class of papers.
Other invoices of other goods imported by the party are admissible. The decision
on this point in Wood v. The United States (16 Peters, 359, 360) confirmed.
It was proper to show, in such a case, that the agent of the claimant had sold goods
for him at prices which yielded profits, which other persons, engaged in the same
trade, averred could not fairly have been made in the then state of the market.
The court is the tribunal to determine, from the evidence, whether or. not there
was probable cause for the seizure.
In order to sustain counts in the information, founded on the acts of 1830 and 1832,
it is not necessary that they should contain averments of the special circumstances of the examination of the goods and datection of the fraud under the duthority of the collector. The language of the court in Wood's case reexamined,
explained, and controlled.
The court below was right in instructing thejury,.that, under such an information,
they were not restricted in the condemnation of the googs to any entered goods
which they found to be undervalued, but that they might find either the whole
package or the invoice forfeited, though containing other goods correctly valued,
provided they should find that such package or invoice had been made up with
intent to dediaud the revenue.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, fronr -the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District ofPnnnsylvania.
On the 16th of August,, 1839, Patrick Brady, a resident of the
city of Philadelphia, presented to the custom-bouse in that city an
entry of certain goods which had arrived from Liverpool. in the

ship Franklin. Accompanying the entry was the oath of James
Buckley, the present claimant, taken at Liverpool, on the 8th of
June, 1839. It was what is called the manufacturer's oath, as contradistinguished from the purchaser's oath, and stated the value, the
purchaser's oath stating the actual cost, of the goods. The bill of
lading was for three bales, marked P. B., 810, 811, 812, and eight
cases, marked P. B., 813 to 820, which were consigned to the said_
Patrick Brady.
These goods were ordered to be appraised by the tio regularly

-

