567

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
The United States v. Rogers.
THE UNITED STATES, PLIINTIFFS, V. WILIA

S. ROGERS.

The United States have adopted the principle originally established-by- European
nations, namely, that the aboriginal tribes of Indians in North America are not
regarded as the owners of the territories which they rcpectively occupied. Their
country was divided and parcelled out as if it had been vacant and unoccupied
land.
If the propriety of exercising this power were now an open question, it'wuld be
one lor the law-making and political department of the government, and not the,
judicial.
The Indian Zribes residing within the territorial limits of the United States are
subject to their authority, and where the country occupied by them is n6t within
the limits of any one of the StatesCongress may, by law, punish any offence
committed there, no hiatter whether the offender be a white man or an Indian. "
The twenty-fifth section of the act oe 30th June, 1834, extends the laws of the
United States over the Indian country, with a proviso that they shall not include
punishment for "crimes dommitted by one Indian against the person or property
of another Indian."
This exception does not embrace the cise of a white man who, at mature age,is
adopted into an Indian tribe. He is not an" Indian," within the meaning ofthe law.
The treaty with the Cherokees, concluded at New Echota, in 1835, allows the Indian Council to make laws for their own people or such persons as have connected thiemselves with them. But it also provides, that such laws shall not be
inconsistent with acts of-Congress. The act of 1834, therefore,"controls and exOlains the treaty:
It results from these principles, that a plea, set up by a white man, alle&ing that he
had been adopted by an Indian tribe, and was not subject to the jurisdiction of,
the Circuit Court of the United States, is not valid.

THis case came up, on a certificaie of division, from the Circult Court of the United states for the District of Arkansas.
At the April term, 1845, of the said Circuit Court,, the grand
jury indicted William S. Rogers for the murder of Jacob Nicholson. Both Rogers and Nicholson were alleged, in the indictment,
to be "1white men and not Indians." The offence was charged.
to have been committed within the jurisdicion of 'the court, that is'
to say, in that part of the Indiancountry west of the State of Arkansas that is bounded north by the north line of lands assigned to
the Osage tribe of Indians, produced east to the State of Missouri, west by the Mexican possessions, south by Red River, and
east by the west line of the now State of Arkansat, and the State
of Missouri (the same being territory annexed to the said District
of Arkansas, for the purposes in the act of Congress in that behalf
.,nade anti provided]).
The defendant filed the following plea :" And the defendant in his own proper person, comes into court,
and, having heard tha said indictment read, says, that the court
ought not to take further cognizance of the said prosecution, be-

cause, he says, heretofore, to wit, on the

-

day of November,

•
1836, he-then being a free white man and a citizen of the United
States, and having been born in the said United States, voluntarily

and of his free will removed to the portion of the country west of
the State of Arkansas, assigned and belonging to the Cherokee

5SUPREME

COURT.
The United States v. Rogers.

tribe of Indians, and did incorporate himself with said tribe, and
fr6m that time forward became and continued to be one of them,
and made the same.his home, without any intention of returning to
the said United States ; and that afterwards, to wit, on the
day of November, 1836, he intermarried with a Cherokee Indian
woman, according to the forms of marriage, and that he continued
to live with the said Cherokee woman, as his wife, until September, 1843, when she died, and by her had several children, now
living in the Cherokee nation, which is his and their home.
"1And the defendant further says, that, from the time he removed,
as aforesaid, he incorporated himself with the said tribe of Indians
as one of them, and was and is so treated, recognized, and adopted by said tribe and the proper authorities thereof, and exercised
and 'exercises all the rights and privileges of a Cherokee Indian in
said tribe, and was and is domiciled in the country aforesaid ; that,
before
and at the time
of the commission of the supposed crime, if any such was committed, to wit, in the Indian country aforesaid, he, the defendant,
by the acts aforesaid, became, and was, and still is, a citizen of the
Cherokee nation, and became, and was, and still is, a Cherokee
Indian, within the. true intent and meaning of ihe act of Congress
in that behalf provided. And the said defendant further says, that
the said Jacob Nicholson, long before the commission of said
crime, if any such was committed, although a native-born free
white male citizen of the United States, had settled in the tract of
country assigned to said Cherokee tribe of Indians west of the
State of Arkansas, without any intention of returning to said
United States ; that he intermarried with an Indian Cherokee
woman, according to the Cherokee form of marriage ; that he was
treated recognized, and adopted by the said tribe as one of them,
and entitled to exercise, and did exercise, all the rights and privileges of a Cherokee Indian, and was permanently domiciled in
said Indian country as his home, up to the time of his supposed
murder.
"1And the said defendant further says, that, by the acts aforesaid, he, the said Jacob Nicholson, was a Cherokee Indian at the
time of the commission of the said supposed crime, within the true
intent and meaning of the act of Congress in that behalf made and
provided. Wherefore the defendant says, that this court has no
jurisdiction to cause the defendant to make a further or other answer to said bill of indictment, for said supposed crime alleged in
the bill of indictment. And the defendant prays judgment, whether he shall be held bound to further answer said indictment."
To this plea the*District-Attorney of the United States filed the
following demurrer.
" And the said United States, by Samuel f. Hempstead, Dis-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

569

The United States v. Rogers.

trict-A ttomey come and- say, that-the said first, plea of the defendant to the jurisdiction of this honorable court is insufficient in
law, and that, by reason of any thing therein contained, this court
ought not to refuse to entertaini further jurisdiction of the crime in
said bill of indictment alleged.
' And the following causes .of demurrer are assigned to said
plea

-

"1 1st. That a native-born citizen of the United States cannot
expatriate himself, so as to owe no allegiance to the United States,
without some law authorizing him to do so.
" 2d. That no white man can rightfully become a citizen of the
Cherokee tribe of Indians, either by marriage, residence, adoption,
or any other means, unless the proper authority of the United
States shall authorize such incorporation.
" 3d. That the proviso of the act of Congress, relating to
crimes committed by one Indian upon the property or person of
another Indian,, was never intended to embrace white persons,
whether married and residing in the Indian nation or not."
And, upon the argument of the said demurrer, the following
questions arose, and were propounded for the decision of the
court ; but the judges being divided in opinion upon the same, upon motion, ordered that they be entered of record, and certified to
the next term of the Supreme Court of the United States for its
opinion and decision thereupon.
1st. Was it competent for the accuseci, being a citizen of the
United States, either under the fourth clause of the eighth section
of the first article of the Constitution of the United States; or under
any act of Congress passed in virtue of the Constitution oT the
United States, upon the subject of naturalization ; or in virtue of
any admission, obligation, or duty incumbent upon the government
of the United States, and.implied by the said clause, section, antd
article of the Constitution'; or any of the said acts of-Congress in
reference to citizens of the United States, or to foreign governments, their subjects or citizens, upon the authority of the will
and act of the accused, and without any form, mode, or condition
prescribed by the government of the United States, - to divest
himself of his allegiance to that government, and of his character
of citizen of the United States ?
2d. Could the accused, as a citizen of the United States, or
a resident within the same, possess the right or the power resulting
from the nature and character of the civil and political institutions
of the United States, or as appertaining to, and inherent in, him,
as a free moral and political agent, or derived to him from the
law of nature or. from the law of nations, founded either upon
natural right or upon convention, voluntarily and entirely put off his
allegiance to, and his character of citia , of,.the United States,
VOL. IV.
72
Vv *

670

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Rogers.

and transfer that allegiance and citizenship to any other government,
state, or community ?
3d. Could the tribe of Indians residing without the limits of
any one of the States, but within the territory of the United
States, as set forth in the pleadings in this prosecution, and designated as the Cherokee tribe, and also as the Cherokee nation (and
by whom the accused alleges that he has been adopted), be held
'and recognized, in reference to the government, and under the laws
of the United States, as a separate and distinct government or nation, possessing political rights and powers such as authorize them
to receive and adopt, as members of their state, the subjects or
citizens of other states or governments, with the assent of such
subjects or citizens, and particularly the citizens of the United
States, and thereby to sever their allegiance and citizenship from
the states or governments to which they previously appertained,
and to naturalize such subjects or citizens, and make them exclusively'or effectually members, subjects, or citizens of the said
Indian tribe, with regard to civil and political rights and obligations ?
4th. Could the accused, by any act or assent of his own,
combined with the acts, authority, or assent of the above-men"tidned tribe, residing within the territory aforesaid, so change and
put off his character, rights, and obligations as a citizen of the
United States, as to become in his social, civil, and political relations aud condition a Cherokee Indian ?
5th. Does the twenty-fifth section of the act of Congress of the
30th of June, 1834, entitled 1 An act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian -tribes, and to preserve the peace of the
frontiers," and the proviso to that sectjpn, limit the operation of
the said act, and give effect to the said proviso, as to instances of
erimes committed by natives of the Indian tribes of full blood,
against native Indians of full blood only; or do the said section
and proviso have reference also to Indians (natives), or others
adopted by, and permanently resident within, the Indian tribes ;
or have they relation to the progeny of Indians by whites or by
negroes, or of whites 'or negroes by Indians, born or permanently
resident within the Indian tribes and limitsor to whites or free
negroes born and permanently resident in the tribes, or to negroes
owned as slaves, and resident within the Indian tribes, whether
procured by purchase, or there born the property of Indians ?
6th. Does the plea interposed by the accused in this prosecution, the facts whereof are admitted by the demurrer, constitute a
valid objection to the jurisdiction of this court ?
The twenty-fifth section of the act of.1834, referred to in the
fifth point certified, enacts as follows :That so much of the
laws of the United States as provides for the punishment of crimes
committed'within any place within the sole and exclusive jurisdic-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

571

The United States v. Rogers.

tion of the United States shall be in force in the Indian country;
provided, that the same shall not extend to crimes committed by
one Indian against the person or property of another Indian."
The defendant moved the court for an order to discharge him
from imprisonment, on the ground that the court were divided in
opinion on his plea to the jurisdiction ; but the court overruled the
motion, and remanded him to the custody of the marshal.
The case came up to this court upon the points certified, and
was argued by Mr. XMaeon, Attorney-General, on behalf of the
United, States.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion, of the court.
This case has been sent here by the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Arkansas, under a certificate of division
of opinion between the justices of that court.
It appears by the record, that"William S. Rogers, a white man)
was indicted 'in the above-mentioned court for mur der, charged to
have been committed upon a certain Jacob Nicholson, also a white
man, in the count:ry now occupied and allotted by the laws of -the
United States to The Cherokee Indians.
The accused put in a special plea to the indictment, in which he
avers, that, having been ja citizen of the United States, he, long
before the offence charged is supposed to have been conrmitted,
voluntarily removed to the Cherokee country, and made it his
home, without any intention of returning to the United States, that
he incorporated himself with the said tribe of 'Indians as one of
them, and was so treated, recognized, and adopted by the said tribe,
and the proper authorities thereof, and exercised all the rights and
privileges of a Cherokee Indian in the said tribe, and was domiciled
in their country ; that by these acts he becdme a citizen of the
Cherokee nation, and was, and still is, a Cherokee Indian, within
the true intent and meaning of the act of Congress in that behalf
made and provided; that the said Jacob Nicholson had in like
manner become a Cherokee Indian, and was such at the time of
the commission of the said supposed crime, within the true intent
and meaning of the act of Congress in that behalf made and provided ; and that therefore the court had no jurisdiction to cause* the
defendant to make a further or other answer to the said indictment.
This is the substance of the plea, and to this plea the attorney for
the United States demurred, setting down the causes of demurrer
which appear in the fgregoing statement of the case.
Several questions have been propounded by the Circuit Court,
which do not arise on 'the plea of the accused, and some of them
we think cannot be material in the decision of the case, and need
not therefore be answered by this court.
The country in which the.crime is charged to have been committed is a part of the territory of the United States, and not with-

572

SUPREME COURT.
The United States r. Rogers.

in the limits of any particular State. It is true that it is occupied
by the tribe of Cherokee Indians. But it -has been assigned to
them by the United States, as a place of domicile for the tribe, and
they hold and occupy it with the assent of the United States, and
under their authority. The native tribes who were found on this
continent t the time of its discovery have never been acknowledged or treated as independent nations by the European governments, nor regarded as the owners of the territories they respectively occupied. On the contrary, the whole continent was divided
and parcelled'out, and granted by the governments of Europe as if
it had been vacant and unoccupied land, and the Indians continually held to be, and treated as, subject to their dominion and control.
It would be useless at this day to inquire whether the principle
thus adopted is just or not ; or to speak of the manner in which
the power claimed was in many instances exercised. It is due to
the United States, however, to say, that while they have maintained
the doctrines upon this subject which had been previously established by other nations, and insisted upon the same powers and dominion within their territory,.yet, from the very moment the general
government came into existence to this time, it has exercised its
power over this unfortunate race in the spirit of humanity and
justice, and has endeavoured by every means in its pwer to enlighten
their minds and increase their comforts, and to save them if possible from the consequences of their own vices. But had it been
otherwise, and were the right and the propriety of exercising this
power now open to question, yet it is a question for the law-making
and political department of the government, and not for the judicial.
It is our duty to expound and execute the law as we find it, and
we think it too firmly and clearly established to admit of dispute, that the Indian tribes residing within the territorial limits of
the United States are subject to their authority, and where the
country oicupied by them is not within the limits of one of the
States, Cdgress may by law punish any offence committed there,
no matter whether the offender be a white wan or an Indian. Consequently, the fact that Rogers had become a member of the tribe
of Cherokees is no objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and
no defence to the indictment, provided the case is embraced by the
provisions of the act of Congress of the 30th of June, 1834,
entitled " An act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian
tribes, and to preserve the peace of the frontiers."
By the twenty-fifth section of that act, the prisoner, if found guilty, is undoubtedly liable to punishment, unless he comes within the
exception contained in the proviso, which is, that the provisions of
that section " shall not extend to crimes committed by one Indian
against the person or property of another Indian." And we think
it very clear, that a white man who at mature age is adopted in an
Indian tribe does not -thereby become an Indian, and was not

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

573

The United States v. Rogers.

intended to be embraced in the exception above mentioned. He
may by such adoption become entitled to certain privileges in the
tribe, andmake himself amenable to-their laws and usages. Yet
he is not an Indian ; and"the exception is confined to those who by
the usages and customs of the Indians are regarded as belonging to
their race. It does not speak of members of a tribe, but of the
race generally, - of.the family of Indians ; and it intended to leave
them both, as regarded their own tribe, and other tribes also, to be
governed by Indian usages and customs. And it'would perhaps be
found difficult to preserve peace among them, if white men of every
description might at pleasure settle among them, and, by procuring
an adoption by one of the tribes, throw off all responsibility to the
laws of the United S utes, and claim to be treated by the government and its officers as if they were Indians born. It can hardly
be supposed that Congress intended to grant such exemptions, especially to men of that class who are most likely to become Indians
by adoption, anli who will generally be found the most mischievous
and dangerous inhabitants of the Indian country.
Echota, made
with
of Newinfluence
the Cherokees
1835, ought
that the
supposed,
to treaty
have some
have been in
It may
upon
exception
this act of
the
in
there the
is nothing
Butextend
the tribe. and
of Congress,
allconstruction
the adoptedofmembers
to
the treaty in conflict with the construction we have given to the
fifth article of the treaty stipulates, it is true, that the
law. The
United States will secure to the Cherokee nation the right, by their
national Councils, to make and carry into effect such taws as they
may deem necessary for the government and protection of the persons and property within their own country, belonging to their people, or such persons as have connected" themselves with them.
But a proviso immediately follws that such laws shall not be inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States and such acts
of Congress as had been, or might be,.passed, regulating trade and
intercourse with the Indians. Now the'act of Congress under which
the prisoner is indicted had been passed but a few months before,
and this proviso in the treaty shows that the stipulation above mentioned was not intended or understood to alter in any manner its
provisions, or affect its construction. Whatever obligations the
prisoner may have taken upon himself by becoming a Cherokee
by adoption, his responsibility to the laws of the United States remained unchanged and undiminished. He was still a white man,
of the white race, and, therefore not within the exception in the act
of Congress.
. We are, therefore, of opinion, that the matters stated in the plea
of the accused do not constitute a valid objection to the jurisdiction
of the court, and that, if he is found guilty upon the indictment, he
is liable to the punishment provided by the act of Congress before
referred to, and is not within the exception in relation to Indians.

SUPREME COURT.

574

Barry r. Mercein et ah

And we shall direct this opinion to be certified to the Circuit Court,
as the answer to the several questions stated in the certificate of
division. We abstain from giving a specific answer to each question, because, as we have already said, some of them do not appear
to arise out of the case, .and, upon questions of that description,
we deem it most advisable not to express an opinion.

JOHN

A.

BARY, PLAINTIFF In ERROR, V. MA

XY
MEECEIN AND ELIT.ZA

ANN BARy, DEFENDANTS.
After a case has been called, and placed at the foot of the docket, the court cannot
take it .up, on motion, and assign a day for its argument, when other cases, of
greapublio importance, have already been assigned for what may be the remainder oiJthe term.

TnE circumstances which led to the interlocutory opinion of the
court in this case are sufficiently set forth in the memorial of Mr.
Barry, and the opinion of the court.
The memorial was as follows: "To their Honors, the Justices of the Supreme Court of the
United States of America.
"The memorial of John A. Barry respectfully represents, that
he is a British subject, domiciled and resident abroad within the dominions of her Britannic Majesty ; that, for some considerable time
past, he.has had upon the docket of this honorable court a highly
important and most interesting case, on a writ of error to the Circbit Court for the Southern District of New York : that, consequently, he came over, to these -United States in November, 1844,
to attenal to the said case it the last term of this honorable court ;
but the number of the case being 128, he wai greatly disappointed
in being obliged to -return to his home without its having been
reached : that he has now again come over to this country for the
purpose of meeting the said case ; but, owing to an unusual length
of passage, did not prrive at Boston until after this honorable court
had commenced its present session : that it was his intention, and
full expectation, to have been before this honorable court whenever
the said case (No. 72) on the present calendar should be called ;
but, owing to an attack of bodily indisposition, he was detained in
New York until he became apprehensive that he might not be enabled
to be present at the call of the said case in its regular order: that he
thereupon wrote a letter to W. T. Carroll, Esq.,.the clerk of this
honorable court, intimating his said apprehension, in order that,
should it be realized, the cause thereof might be communicated to

