JANUAIRY TERM, 1846.

251

Buckley v. The United States.

the sixty-sixth section left it as matter of discretion, 'depending
upon suspicion of fraud in the invoices.
Upon the whole, we are satisfied that the judgment of the Circuit
Court, affirming that of the District Court, is legal, upon all the
grounds which have been urged against it, and should be affirmed.

3AEs BucKLEY,

CrLAItT OF THREE BALES AND EIGHT CASES OF CLOTH,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.

In the trial of a cause where goods had been seized upon suspicion of being fraudulently imported, it was proper to allow to go to the jury, as evidence, appraisements of the goods made either by the official appraisers or appraisers acting under
an appeal, they being present to verifythe papers. The objection that the ap.
praisements had not been made in presence of the jury wds not sufficient.
Such papers are documents orpublic writings, not judicial, and may be used as didence, under the rules whic regulate all that class of papers.
Other invoices of other goods imported by the party are admissible. The decision
on this point in Wood v. The United States (16 Peters, 359, 360) confirmed.
It was proper to show, in such a case, that the agent of the claimant had sold goods
for him at prices which yielded profits, which other persons, engaged in the same
trade, averred could not fairly have been made in the then state of the market.
The court is the tribunal to determine, from the evidence, whether or. not there
was probable cause for the seizure.
In order to sustain counts in the information, founded on the acts of 1830 and 1832,
it is not necessary that they should contain averments of the special circumstances of the examination of the goods and datection of the fraud under the duthority of the collector. The language of the court in Wood's case reexamined,
explained, and controlled.
The court below was right in instructing thejury,.that, under such an information,
they were not restricted in the condemnation of the googs to any entered goods
which they found to be undervalued, but that they might find either the whole
package or the invoice forfeited, though containing other goods correctly valued,
provided they should find that such package or invoice had been made up with
intent to dediaud the revenue.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, fronr -the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District ofPnnnsylvania.
On the 16th of August,, 1839, Patrick Brady, a resident of the
city of Philadelphia, presented to the custom-bouse in that city an
entry of certain goods which had arrived from Liverpool. in the

ship Franklin. Accompanying the entry was the oath of James
Buckley, the present claimant, taken at Liverpool, on the 8th of
June, 1839. It was what is called the manufacturer's oath, as contradistinguished from the purchaser's oath, and stated the value, the
purchaser's oath stating the actual cost, of the goods. The bill of
lading was for three bales, marked P. B., 810, 811, 812, and eight
cases, marked P. B., 813 to 820, which were consigned to the said_
Patrick Brady.
These goods were ordered to be appraised by the tio regularly

-

252

SUPREME COURT.
Buckley v. The United States.

appointed appraisers for the port of Philadelphia, namely, Thomas
Stewart and Henry Simpson. The examination was not finished
until the 25th of September, 1-839 ; the result of which was an appraisement of £1,917, the invoice being £ 1,647.
On the 15th of February, 1840, the claimant, being then in
England, made out a copy of the invoice Of the goods in question,
to which he annexed a purchaser's oath, stating the goods to have
been purchased. on the 28th of May, 1839, from William Buckley
and Company.
On the 25th of May, 1840, the claimant appealed from the decision of the official appraisers,-in"the manner ointed out in the
act of Congress providing for an appeal, when Sarmuel Ross and
A. J. Lewis were appointed to make an appraisement On the
22d of June, 1840, they took the oath required by law, and proceeded to make the valuation.
About this time, but the record does not state exactly when, the
agent of the claimant filed in the custom-house at Philadeluhia
the purchaser's oath just spoken of.
On the 22d of June, 1840, the appraisers, Ross and Lewis,
who had been appointed under the appeal to appraise the goods,
took the necessary oaths and proceeded to execute the duty. The
result was, that their appraisement was seventeen per cent. higher
than the value as stated in the invoice.
On the 28th of September, 1840, an information was filed against
the goods in the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. It consisted of four counts.
The first -was founded on the sixty-sixth section of the act of
1799.
The second, upon the fourth section of the act 'if 1830, and
charged that the invoice was made up with intent, by a false valuation, to evade and defraud the revenue of the United States.
The third, upon the same section of the same act, charging -hat
each of the several packageg was made up with intent, &c.
The fourth, upon the fourteenth section of the act of 1832,
charging that the goods were composed wholly, or in part, of wool
or cotton, and that all and each of the se'veral packages in the invoice were made up with intent, &c.
As these counts are the subject-matter of a part of the decision
of the Supreme Court, it is proper to insert them in extenso.
In the District Court of the United States of America, in and
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA,

8$.:

Be it remembered, that, on this twenty-eighth day of September,
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty, into
the District Court of the United States of America, in and for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, comes John M. Read, attorney

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

253

Buckley v. The United States.

of the said United States of America, and prosecuting in their
name and on their behalf, and gives the said court here to understand and be informed, that, on the twenty-fourth day of June, in
the year aforesaid, at the city of Philadelphia, in the, Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and within the jurisdiction of this court, the
following goods, wares, and merchandise, to wit :Three bales of cloths, marked P. B., 810, 811, 812, and eight
cases of cloth, marked P. B., 813, 814, 815, 816, 817, 818, 819,
820, were seized on land by Calvin Blythe, Esq., collector of the
customs of the part and district of Philadelphia, in the said Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and are now in his custody, as being
forfeited, for the causes hereinafter mentioned, to wit:1. That the aforesaid goods, wares, and merchandise are of the
growth, produce, ind manufacture of some foreign place or country, to the said attorney unknown ; and were heretofore, to wit, on
the sixteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-nine, brought or imported in a ship or vessel, being a ship called the Franklin, from a foreign port or place,
to wit, the port of Liverpool, to the port of Philadelphia, in the
collection district of Philadelphia, in the Eastern District of Penn.sylvania, which said goods, wares, and merchandise are subject to
the payment of duties to the United States, on being brought and
imported as aforesaid.
That an entry of the aforesaid goods, wares, and merchandise,
duly signed, was, at the time of said importation thereof, made at
the office of the collector of the customs of the said port and district of Philadelphia; and that, on such entry being made as aforesaid, an invoice of the goods. wares, and merchandise included in
such entry was produced, and left with the said collector of the
customs of the port and 4istrict of Philadelphia.
And the said attorney further avers, that the aforesaid goods,
wares, and merchandise, which were so entered as aforesaid, and
of which an invoice was so produced and left as aforesaid, were
not invoiced according to the actual cost thereof at the place of ex.portation, but, on the contrary, were in fact invoiced at less sums
than the actual cost thereof ht the place of exportation, with design
to evade the duties thereupon, or some part thereof, against the
form of the act of Congress in such case made and provided.
2. That the aforesaid goods, wares, and merchandise, beiPn
subject to the payment of ad valorem duties to the 'United
States, an entry thereof, duly signea, was, at the. time of the importation thereof, made at the office of the collector of the customs
of the said port and district of Philadelphia, and that, on such entry
being made as aforesaid, an invoice of the goods, wares, and merchandise included in such entry was produced and left witir the
said collector of the customs of the said port and district of Philadelphia.
VOL. IV.
v

254

SUPREME COURT.
Buckley

v. The United States.

And the said attorney further avers, that the said invoice, so produced and left as aforesaid, was made up with intent, by a false
valuation, to evade and defraud the revenue of the United States,
against the form of the act of Congress in such case made and provided.
3. That the aforesaid goods, wares, and merchandise, being
subject to the payment of ad valorera duties to the United States,
an entry thereof, duly signed, was, at the time of the importation
thereof, made at the office of the collector of the customs of the
said port and district of Philadelphia ; and that, on such entry being made as aforesaid, an invoice of the goods, wares, and merchandise included in the -said entry was produced and left with the said
collector of the customs of the said port and district of Philadelphia.
And the said attorney further avers, that all and each of the said
several packages contained in the said entry so made, and in the
invoice so produced and left as aforesaid, in which the aforesaid
goods, wares, and merchandise were so imported and entered as
aforesaid, was made up with intent, by a false valuation, to evade
and defraud the revenue of the United States, against the form of
the act of Congress in such case made and provided.
4. That the aforesaid goods, wares, and merchandise, beng
composed wholly or in part of wool or cotton, an entry thereof,
duly signed, was, at the time of the importation thereof, made at
the office of the collector of the customs for the port and district of
Philadelphia ; and that, on the said entry being. made as aforesaid,
an invoice of the said goods, so as aforesaid composed wholly or
in part [of] wool or cotton, included in such entry, was produced
and left with the said collector of the customs of the said port and
district of Philadelphia.
And the said attorney further avers, that all and each of the several packages in the said invoice so produced and left as aforesaid,
and in the said entry so much as aforesaid, in which the aforesaid
goods were so imported as aforesaid, were made up with intent to
evade and defraud the revenue of the United States, against the
form of the act of Congress in such case made and provided.
By reason of all which the premises and the acts of Congress
in this behalf made and provided, the said goods, wares, and merchandise have become and are forfeited.
Wherefore, the said attorney prays the aid and the advice of the
said court here in the premises, and due process of law for the
condemnation thereof.
JOHN N . READ,

United States J.ttorneyfor the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The acts of Congress upon wlhica these counts are founded are
as follows :-

JANUAR.Y TERM, 1846.

255

Buckley v. The United States.

The sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799, chapter 22, provided,

-

"That if any goods, wares, or merchandise, of which entry
shall have been made in the. office 9 f a. collector, shall not be invoiced according to the actual cost thereof at the place of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereupon, or any part thereof,
all such goods, wares, and merchandise, or the value thereof, to be
recovered of the person making the entry, shall be forfeited."
The fourth section of the act of 1830, chapter 147 (4 Lit. &
Brown's ed. 410), provided, "That the collectors of the customs shall cause at least one
package out of every invoice, and one package at least out of every
twenty packages of each invoice, and a greater number should he
deem it necessary, of goods imported into the respective districts,
which package or packages he shall have first designated on the invoice, to be opened and examined, and if the same be found not to
correspond with the invoice, or to be falsely charged in such invoice, the collector shall order, forthwith, all the goods contained
in the same entry to be inipected ; and if such goods be subject to ad valorem duty, the same shall be appraised, and if"any
package shall be found to contain any article not described in the
invoice, or if such package or invoice be made up with intent, by
a false valuation or extension, or otherwise, to evade or defraud
the revenue, the same shall be forfeited ; ". (then follows a repeal
of the fifteenth section of the act of 1823, and of any act which
imposes an additional duty or penalty of fifty per cent. upon goods
appraised above their invoice price ;) " and no goods liable to be
inspected or appraised as aforesaid shall be delivered from the custody of the officers of the customs, until the same shall have been
inspected or appraised, or until the' packages sent to be inspected
or appraised shall be found correctly and fairly invoiced and put up,
and so reported to the collector ; provided," &c., &c., &c.
The fourteenth section of the act of 1832, chapter 224 (4 Lit.
& Brown's ed. 593), provided,
"

-

That whenever, upon the opening and examination of any

package or packages of imported goods, composed wholly or in
part of wool or cotton, in the manner provided by the fourth section of the act for the more effectual collection of the impbst duties, approved on [theJ 28th day of May, 1830, the said goods
shall be found not to correspond with the entry thereof at the custom-house ; and if any package shall be found to contain any article not entered, such article shall be forfeited ; or if the package
be made up with intent to evade or defraud the revenue, the package shall be forfeited; and so much of the said section as prescribes a forfeiture of goods found not to correspond with the
invoice thereof be, and the same is, hereby repealed."
On the 7th of October, 1840, Buckley filed his claim, and on

256

SUPREME COURT.
- Buckley

i.

The United

States.

the 13th of December, 1842, the cause came on for trial. In the
course of it, the counsel for'the clinmant took nine exceptions to
the admissibility of certain evidence offered in support of the prosecution, which may be stated as follows..
1. The first exception was to the admissibility of Thomas Stewart to prove an appraisement of the-goods made by him as one of
the official appraisers of the port ; to which testimony the counsel
for the claimant objected, that the appraisement was not made in
presence of the court and jury.
2. Was to the admissibility of the appraisement.
3. Was to the admissibility of the testimony of Felix A. Huntingdon, an importer and experienced judge of goods, to prove
what was the value, in his belief, of the goods in the British market
at the date of the invoice upon which they were entered ; the
ground of the objection being, that the appraisement was not made
in the presence of the jury.
4, Was to the admissibility of the affidavits of Samuel Ross and
A. .. Lewis, who had appraised the goods under an appeal, taken
by them bef6re -entering on the performance of their duty as appraisers under the appeal.
5. Thereupon the coursel of the United States gave in evidence
their appraisement ; and to this the claimant excepted, that the appraiseinent had Vot been made in presence of the jury.
6. The counsel for the United States having produced the invoices of two importations - one into Philadelpbia, and the other
into New York - of goods exported from England by the claimant,
whose affidavit was in each case annexed, dated 23d May, 1839,
and 12th June, 1839, the counsel for the claimant excepted to the
reading of these two affidavits.
7. Several other invoices, affidavits, and entries were offered on
the part of the United States, after being verified in the same manner as those mentioned in the last exception ; and to their admission in evidence the counsel for the claimant excepted.
8. The counsel of the claimant also excepted to any evidence
being given of certain importations made by the claimant into New
York, per Republic and United States, in which cases the value of
the goods were appraised at a higher value than the invoices.
9. The counsel for the United States proved that the claimant's
factors in Philadelphia had received goods from him to be sold for
his account, and had sold the same at prices more, by one hundred
and twenty per cent., than the prices entered upon the invoices upon
which they had been entered ; andt to the admissibility-of this testimony the co~rusel for the claimant excepted.
The evidence being closed on both sides, the counsel for the
United States prayed certain instructions, and the court proceeded
to charge the jury. The two following appear to be the passages
to which the counsel for the'claimant excepted.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

257

Buckley x, The United States.

The United States allege that the appraisements and the affidavits,
and the fact of Mr. Bu~kley's acquaintance with the different forms
of oaths, show his fraudulent.intent in this importation; - other invoices of the claimant are also given in evidence to show the same
fraudulent design. Fraud is to he judged of by varipus circumnstances. If this were the only case, the presumption might be that
there was a mistake ; but the United States have presented these
various invoices to show that there was no mistake. They have
furthei shown the appraisements and the sales of these other importations by James Bucley at an advance from one hundred and
fourteen to one hundred and forty per cent. in the invoice. Whereas
eighty-five per cent. advance is a fair profit according to the testimony. These circumstances go to show intention; because,
though the goods may be under invoiced, yet, unless fraud was
intended, the under valuation will not work a: forfeiture. The
United States are only bound in the first instance to prove to the
court probable cause. I have no difficulty in saying that the
United States have abundantly shown probable 'cause ; the burden
of proof is hence throw.r upoin the claimant.
It is said, that, although some of the goods were undervalued,
some were not so, and should not be condemned. The law is
this; if in any particular package the prices'of some of them are
undervalued,'ind some of them are fair, if the whole package has
been made up by a false valuation with, intent to defraud the
revenue, the whole is forfeited. The same is the case with an
invoice. Although it may be composed of some packages fairly
made up, yet, if the whole invoice has been made up with intent to
defraud, the whole invoice will be forfeited. If the cost of the
whole invoice offered for entry is made up with intent to defraud, the whole of the goods conthined in it are forfeited
The first question for your decision then, is, whether the goods
were put in the invoice under their cost or value ; if so, whether
such undervaluation was with a view to defraud ; if this were so,
then as to those goods there can be no difficulty ; whether the
other goods in the invoice are to be f6rfeited must depend on the
intent of the party in making up the invoice.
1st. And thereupon, the counsel for the claimant did except to
so much Of the said charge as decided upon the question of probable
cause as a question of law, taking it entirely from the jury.
2d. And to so much of the said charge as decided that, under the
present information, the jury should not be restricted in their condemnation to any restricted goods which they found ,undervlued ;
but find, first, either the whole package, or second, the invoice
in which they were imported, forfeited,, though containing other
goods correctly valued; if 'they should find that such package or
mvoice had been made up with intent to defraud the revenue of
the United States.
v
33
VOL, IV.

258

SUPREME COURT.
Buckley v. The United States.

And forasmuch as the exceptions afqresaid do not appear of
record, the said defendant prayed that the court will sign and seal
this his bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly.
ARCHIBALD RANDALL.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court,
Nine exceptions were taken, upon the trial of this cause, to tim
admissibility of the testimony which was offered on the part of the
United States.
The first, second, third, fourth, and fifth are objections to the introduction of the appraisements vhich were made of the goods entered by the claimant, to the introduction of the persons who made
them, to the affidavits of-Ross and Lewis, the appraisers upen the
claimant's appeal from the oqcial valuation, and to the admissibility of
an experienced judge and importer of goods, who was put upon the
stand, to prove the value of the goods in the English market, at the
date of the invoice, upon which they were entered. The objection
in each instance is, that the appraisements had not been made in
the presence of the jury. The goods were subject to ad valorem
rates of duty. The collector, having cause to suspect that they
were invoiced below their true value or actual cost, with an intent
to evade or defraud the revenue, directed them to be appraised by

the official appraisers.

From their valuation, the claimant appeal-

ed. Ross and Lewis acted as appraisers upon the appeal, and
made their estimate of the value or cost of the goods. The
originals of both appraisements were returned to the custom-house.
It is not denied, that they were made according to the provisions
of the acts of Congress. They were so made. From the oharacter of those papers, we think they were, admissible. They are
documents or public writings, not judicial. As such they may be
used as evidence, subject to the rules applicable to the admissibility of such writings as evidence. The originals or examined
copies were admissible, as is the case wherever the original is, of
a public nature. They are within the reach ofdither party in a cause ;
either for inspection or for copies, when a copy is wanted to be
used as evidence. We need not enumerate the classes of such
writings, or the particular-kinds of them which from analogy have
been adjudicated to be such, as both may be found in any of the
elementary treatises upon evidence. There is authority for so classing these appraisements. It has been decided, that a copy of an official document, containing an account of the cargo of a ship, made
in pursuance of an act of parliament by an officer of the customs
and lodged there as an official document, should be admitted as
proof that the property mentioned in it was put on board of a vessel. So, also, the copy of an official document containing !he
names, capacities, and descriptions of passenger on board a vessel,
made in pursuance of an act of parliament, has. been received as

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

-259

Buckley v. The United States.

roof of such persons being on board. Richardson v. Mellish, 1
an & Moody, 68 ; 2 Bing. 229.
In this instance, the counsel for the United States offered the
originals of the appraisements, at the same time introducing the persons by whom they were made, as witnesses to authenti4ate them.
They were not offered as conclusive of the cost or value of the
goods, or as conclusive that an attempt had 'been made to enter.
them with an intent to evade or defraud the revenue. They might,
with other evidence, conduce to establish those facts, and there is
no doubt they were in part used for such a purpose in this case.
But the primary object was to show from them, with other testimony, that there was probable cause for the seizure, that a course
had been taken by the collector which the law permitted, and that
every thing had been done to give to the claimant the opportunity
of establishing the fairness of his suspected entry. What we -have
said of the character of the appraisements is equally applicable to
the objection to the admissibility of the affidavits of Ross and
Lewis, by whom the goods were appraised upon the appeal.
There is no force, then, in the objection, that the appraisements
were not made in the presence of the jury. We have thus disposed of the first five exceptions to the admissibility of the evidence;
for we do not understand that any objection was made to Stewart
and Huntingdon as witnesses to prove, from their knowledge of the
vaJue of goods, what was the value of the goods in question, but
dt they were objected to, as it is expressed in the exception, because the appraisements made by them were not made in the presence of. the jury. As experienced judges of goods and of their
value, they were certainly good witnesses to testify what in their
belief was the value of the goods in the English market, at the date
of the invoice upon which they were entered. The sixth, seventh,
and.eighth exceptions were objections to the admissibility as evidence
of other invoices of other importations made by the claimant, to
show fraud in this case. Such invoices for the same purpose were
decided by the court in Wood's case (16 Pet. 359, 360) to be
admissible., It is not necessary to repeat what was then said upon
the subject. The ninth exception is an objection to the introduction
of any evidence to show that the factors of the claimant had sold
goods for him at more than one hundred and twenty per cent. above
the invoice prices. We know that the prices of commodities
uctkate from many causes, and that enhanced prices can of themselves be no proof of unfair dealing, or of an entry having been
made at the custom-house upon an undervalued invoice. But
if in a particular business testimony can be found to establish that an
importer .has received prices extravagantly above invoice prices,
such as others engaged in the same trade, at the same time, declare
could not have been made in the state of the market during the
time, a strong presumplion arises that unfair means have been used

260

SUPREME COURT.
Buckley v. The United States.
I

to produce effects contrary to the usual results of contemporary trade.
Such a fact may well, then, be considered as good evidence, when
the issue in a case is fraud or no fraud in the importation of goods.
The exceptions taken to the evidence having been disposed of,
we proceed, to examine such as were taken to the charge of the
court. The first, that the court had undertaken to determine from
the evidence that there was probable cause for the seizure, without
submitting it to the jury, was abandoned in the argument. This
court had ruled in Taylor v. The United States, 3 Howard, 211,
that the judge, and not the jury, was to determine whether there
was probable cause, so as to throw on the claimant the onue probandi to establish the fairness of the importation.
The second exception is an objection to so much of the charge
of the court as instructed the jury; that, under the present information, they were not restricted in their condemnation to such goods
as they should find had been undervalued, but that they might find
either the whole package or the invoice forfeited, though it contained other goods correctly valued,, if they were of the opinion, that
such package or invoice had been made up with intent to defraud
the revenue of the United States.
The information contained four counts. The first, upon the sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799, to which the exception does not
-apply. The second and third counts were framed.upon the fourth
section of the act of 1830, ci. 147 ; and the fourth upon the fourteerith section of the act of 1832, ch. 227. The objection is not
meant to deny the liability of the goods to forfeiture in a case made
out under either of those acts, from any conflict between them, or
from either being a repeal of the other in any particular, so as to exempt the goods from condemnation. But the exception is confined
to the insufficiency of the averments in the second, third, and fourth
counts to enforce a forfeiture. The language of the counsel in argument was, that the second, third, and fourth counts ot the information
are defective on account of the uncertainty and generality of the
averments in each and every of them, and that the judgment ought
therefore to be reversed. The uncertainty complained of is, that
there is not in either of the three counts. an averment of the special circumstances of the examination of the goods and detection
of the fraud, under the authority of the collector. In support of
the objection, the counsel relied chiefly upon this court having said
in Wood's case, that such anaverment was necessary to enforce a
forfeiture under the fourth or fourteek4h sections of the acts of 1830
and 1832. Pressed as it was with other arguments in support of the
position, the preparation of this opinion has been delayed, with
the view of giving to the objection the most deliberate enamination. Having made it, by a close scrutiny of all the acts of Congress which have been passed to prevent frauds upon the revenue ;
by a comparison of what has been the practice in our own courts,

JANUARY

I ERM, 1846.

261

Buckley v. The United States.

upon informations of a like character under those acts, and of
what have been, both in England and in our own country, declared
to be essential allegations in informations for offences aginst the revenue arising from foreign trade, we have concluded that the language
in Wood's case is stronger than it should have been. It was used argumentatively to show that the sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799
had not been repealed by the fourth and fourteek t sections of the
acts of 1830 and 1832 ; and it was assumed in the argument, that
certain allegations were proper in a count under the last two sections, which were not necessary and would not be suitable in a count
under the sixty-sixth section. In that section, goods not invoiced
according to the actual cost thereof at the place of exportation,
with design to evade the duties, are subject to forfeiture. They
are so, whether the undervaluation shall be discovered after they
have been entered aid passed from the custom-house, or whether
there has or has not been an examination of them. But then, under that section, only such of the goods not invoiced according to
actual cost, without any reference to the contents of the package in
which they may be, or to the entire invoice of which they may form
a part, aresubject to forfeiture. It is neiiher necessary nor proper,
then, as was said in Wood's case, in a count under that section, to
allege the circumstances which led to the detection of the fraud.
But it is said thai previous examination and a consequent appraise-'
ment must be made under the fodrth section of.the act of 1830, and
under the fourteenth section of the act of 1832, in the manner directed in the former; and therefore it is necessary, in a count under either
of them, to aver that both -were done. That, however, is only one
of the ways which the collector may pursue, under existing laws,
for the purpose of securing the payment of lawful duties, by detecting intended fradds upon the revenue. The object of an examination, by packages, under the fourth section of the act of 1830,
is for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not either, of the
causes mentioned in it exist to make it the duty of the collector to
have all the goods in the same entry inspected and appraised, but
he is not confined to one package out of every invoice, or to one
out of every twenty packages of each invoice. He may examine
a "cgreater number" of packages should he deem it necessary,
extending the examination to every package in the invoice. If, before that course has been taken, the collector suspects the entry
to be fraudulent as a whole, or any package of it to be falsely
charged, he can, without any designation of particular packages,
have all the goods inspected and appraised. Or, in making an appraisement under the seventh and eighth sections of the act of 1832,
ch. 227, he may direct it to be done with reference to the detection
of an apprehended fraud of any kind whatever, as well as to those
particulars mentioned in the fourth and fourteenth sections of the acts
of 1830 and 1832, which, when discovered and proved to the satis-

2ft

SUPREME COURT.
Muasson et aL v. Lake.

faction of a jury, attaches a forfeiture either to a package of an entry,
or to the entire invoice. The fourth and fourteenth sections direct'
the collector how he is to act in one way to detect frauds upon the
revenue. But one mode of prevention, without restrictive terms,
limiting an examination and appraisement. of goods to that mode,
does not imply that -other lawful means shall not be used to produce
the same result. If the frauds, for which the fourth and fourteenth
sections declare there shall-be a forfeiture, shall be discovered, in
any way of making an appraisement differing from the manner of
examining goods under the fourth section of the act of 1830, no
one can be found to say that the forfeiture would not attach, without any reference to the means by which the fraud was discovered. It follows, then, that the mode of making an examination is
not confined to that mentioned in the fourth section of the act of
1830, and that the averment of it is not essential in a count under
either of the sections of the law upon which the present information w s framed. Without such an averment, a count under the
fourth section of the act of 1830, and fourteenth section of the act
of 1832, stating time and place, and such circumstances or
particulars of those sections that a correction or acquittal might
be' given in evidence to prevent another information for the
same offence, would be sufficient to prevent the judgment from
We think
being arrested upon a motion for that purpose.
there was no error in the court having instructed the jury, that, under the information in this case, they were not restricted in the
condemnation of the goods to any entered goods which they found
undervalued, but that they might -indeither the whole package or
the.invoice forfeited, taougjh coiatining other goods correctly valued, if they should find that such package or invoice had been
made up with intent to defraud the revenue of the United States.
The judgment in the court below is affirmed.

MICHAEL MUssoN AND GEORGE 0. HALL, SURVING PARTNERS 0F
WILLIAM NOELL, PLAINTIFFS, V. WILLIAM A. LAix.
By the law merchant, when a demand of payment is made upon the drawee of a
foreign bill of exchange, the bill itself must be exhibited.
Neither the statutes of Louisiana, nor the decisions of the courts of that State, have
changed.the law in this respect.
The statutes and decisions examined.
If, therefore, the notarial protest does not set forth the fact that the bill was presented to the drawee, it cannot be read in evidence to the jury.
Even'if the laws of Louisiana; where the drawee resided, had made this change in
the law merchant, it would not affect the contract in the present case, which is
a suit against an indorser residing in Mississippi, where the contract between
him and all subsequent indorsees was made, and where the law merchant has
not been changed.

THis case came up, on a certificate of division in opinion, from

