JANUARY TERM, 1846.

185

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

the operation of time any effect as against Landry and Jourdan,
unil they respectively purchased.
By the Constitution, Congress is given " power to dispose of
and make all needful rules and iegulations respecting the territory
or other property of the United States " ; for the disposal of the
public lands, therefore, in the new States, where such lands lie,
Congress may provide by law ; and having the constitutional power
to pass the law, it is supreme ; so Congress may prohibit and punish trespassers on the public lands. Having the power of disposal
and of protection, Congress alone can deal with the title, and no
State law, whether of limitations or otherwise, can defeat such
title.
For the foregoing reasons, we order the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana to be reversed, and that the cause be
remanded, &c.

JEREIIAH CARPENTER, APPELI ANT, V. THE PnoviDENcE WASINGToN
INSURANCE COMPANY.

A policy of insurance contained a stipulation, that if the insured then had, or

thereafter should have, any other insurance upon the same property, notice
thereof should be given to the company, and the same iidorsed upon the
policy, or otherwise acknowledged by the company in writing, in default of
which the policy should cease.
A bill was filed in equity by the insured, alleging that notice was given to the insurance company, and praying that the company might be compelled to indorse
the notice upon thepolicy, or otherwise acknowledge the same in writing.
When the answer of the company, sworn to by the then president, denies the reception of the notice, to the best of his knowledge and belief, the question becomes one of fact and of law; of fact, whether the evidence offered by the
complainant is sufficient to sustain the allegation; and of law, whether, if so,
this court can compel the company to acknowledge it.
The answer being responsive to the bill, and denying the allegation, under oath,
the general rule is, that the allegation must be proved, not'only by the testimony
of one witness, but hy some additional evidence.
Several qualifications and limitations of this rule examined.
The circumstances of this case are such that the general rule applies.
Two witnesses are produced, by the complainant to prove the notice, but neither
of them swears positively to it, and the circumstances of the case do not
strengthen their testimony.
The ruls by which parties are sometimes allowed to introduce parol evidence with
reference to a written contract do not apply to this case, where the parol proof
is offered by the complainant, seeking to show a fact which, if true, would etablieh a breach of duty in the defenddnts, happening.after the original contract was
made.
The question of lhv which would arise if the notice were sufficiently proved by
the complainant need not be decided in this case.

THIs case was brought up by appeal from-the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Rhode Island, sitting -as a
vOL. Iv.

24

P*

186

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

court of equity. The bill was filed by Carpenter against the insurance company, and referred to an action at law, which he
brought against said company, in 1839, and which was brought, by
writ of error, to the Supreme Court of the United States. It is
reported in 16 Peter , 495. The opinion of the court sets forth
the facts in the case, and they need not be repeated.
The present hill averred that the Providence Washington Insurance Company did receive notice of the existence of an insurance made at the officedof the American Insurance Company,
which said notice was given under the terms of the policy, and that
it was the duty of said Providence Washington Insurance Company
to have indorsed said notice upon said policy, at their office, or
otherwise acknowledged the same in writing, by reason of which
neglect the complainant lost his right at common law to claim the
amount of the insurance, viz. fifteen thousanid dcllars. It then
prayed for a decree to compel the said company to indorse said
notice on said policy, or otherwise acknowledge the same in writing,
according to the terms of their policy, as they long since ought to
have done, and further to compel the said company to pay the said
sum of fifteen thousand dollars, with interest, &c., &c.
By referring to the record in th former suit, it will be seen that
Carpenter and his assignors obtained policies of insurance from two
companies, as follows :Providence Wash. Ins. Co.
Americat Insurance Co.
1835. September 27.
1836. December 12.
1836. September 20.
1837. iecember 14.
1837. September 27.
1838. December 11.
1838. September'27.
Prior to the policy of December 12th, 1836, the then owner of
the property insured made an erroneous representation of the value
of the property proposed to be insured, which vitiated the policy,
anda suit bropght upor, if-was abandoned.
The policy of September 27th, 1838, upon which the suit at
law and the present proceeding in chancery were'founded, contained, amongst 6ther provisions, the following :"And if the said insured, or their assigns, shall hereafter make
any other insurance on the same property, and shall not, with all
reasonable diligence, give notice thereof to this corporation, and
have the same indorsed on this instwnent, or otherwise .acknowledged by them'in writing, this policy shall cease and be of no further effect."
" And provided further, that in case the insured shall have already any other insurance against loss by fire on the property hereby insured, not notified to, this--corporation, 'nor mentioned in nor
indorsed upon this policy, then this insurance shall be void. and of
no effect."

JANUARY

TERM,

1846.

187

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

Annexed to the policy were the proposals and conditions on
which the policy was asserted to be made, one of which was as
follows.
"V. Notice of all previous insurances upon property insured by
this company shall be given to them, and indorsed on this policy,
or otherwise acknowledged by the company in writing, at or before
the time of their making insurance thereon ; otherwise the policy
made by this company shall be of no effect. And in case of subsequent insurances on property insured by this company, .notice
thereof must also, with all reasonable diligence, be given to them,
to the end that such subsequent insurance may be indorsed on the
policy made by this company, or otherwise acknowledged in writing ; in default whereof, such policy shall thenceforth cease and be
of no effect. And in case of loss, this company shall be liable for
such ratable proportion of loss or damage happening to the subject
insured, as the amount insured by this company shall bear to the
whole amount insured thereon, without reference to the dates of
the different policies."
In the suit at law, the court.decided,
1. That the circumstance of the early policies being held by
mortgagees did not, of itself, dispense with the necessity of a notice by Carpenter.
2. That the misrepresentation to the American Insurance Company did not, of itself, make the policy absolutely void, so as to
dispense with the necessity of notice.
S. That, at law, whatever might be the case in equity, mere parol
notice of the insurance made in the American Insurance Company
was not, of itself, sufficient to comply with the requirements of the
policy declared on ; but that it was necessary, in case of any such
prior policy, that the same should not only be notified to the company, but should be mentioned in or indorsed upon the policy;
otherwise the insurance was to be void and of no effect.
Under this decision, the plaintiff, Carpenter, having lost his suit,
filed a bill on the equity side of the court, averring that in December, 1836, and December, 1837, and at divers other times, the
Providnce -Wa§hington Insurance Company had notice from
Wheeler & Co. of the insurance at the office of the American
Insurance Company, and that said notices were given for the purpose of having the same indorsed on the policy at the office of the
Providence Washington Insurance Company, or otherwise acknowledged by them in writing. The'bill further averred, that it
was the duty of said insurance company to have indorsed said notice upon said policy at their office, or to have otherwise acknowledged the same in writing. The prayer of the bill 'is recited in
the commencement of this statement.
The defendants filed an answer and an amended answer. In
the amended answer, they deny that said Policies of insu,'an'ce, or

188

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

either of them, executed by. the said American Insurance Company, and bearing date the 12th day of December, A. D. 1836,
the 14th day of December, A. D. 1837, and the 11th day of
December, A. D. 1838, were notified to these defendants in any
form, or that these defendants had any knowledge'or suspicion of
the existence of said policies, or either of them, until long after
the execution, by these defendants, of the policy of the 27th day
of September, A. D. 1838.
They then aver, that they executed said policy of the 27th of
September, A. D. 1838, in entire ignorance of all said policies at
the said American Insurance Office, and in the full belief that the
said policy by these defendants was all the insurance which the
said plaintiff had on the property insured.
They object to the admission of any evidence that said policies
by the said American Insurance Company, of the 12th of December, A. D. 1836, and the 14th of December, A. D. 1837,
were notified to these defendants, except the mention of said policies in the policy executed by these defendants, or the indorsement of the same thereon ; and also object to the admission of
any evidence that said policy executed by the said American Insurance Company on the 11th day of December, A. D. 1838,
was notified to these defendants, except the indorsement of said
notice on said policy of the 27th of September, A. D. 1838, or
an acknowledgment by these defendants in writing of such policy.
The answer then sets out specifically the misrepresentation under which the American Insurance Company had executed the
policies of 1836, 1837, and 1838, and claims the benefit of it, alleging that if notice had been given to the defendants of these
policies, their existence, coupled with the representations which
had been made, would have led the defendants to believe that both
policies would have left a sufficient proportion of the property at
the risk of the owner, and consequently they would have had no
objection to executing the policy of the 27th of September, 1838,
or to indorsing a notice of the policy of December 11, 1838, upon their policy.
The answer then pleads the former verdict and judgment in bar
Amongst other evidence taken in the cause were th depositions of Samuel G. Wheeler, a former owner of half the mill,
Allen 0. Peck, secretary of the American Insurance Company,
and War'en S. Greene, the secretary of the Providence Washington Insurance Company from October, 1836, to that time.
Wheeler deposed, that he caused insurance to be effected upon
the property in December, 1836, at the American Ofce in Providence; that there was a prcxisting policy in the office of the
Providence Washington Insurance Company; that he gave notice,
by letter to the late president of the latter company, Mr. Jackson, of lhe insurance effected in the former about the time when it

JANUAR.Y

TERM, 1846.

18D

Carpenter v. Providface Washington Ins. Co.

was done, viz. in December, 1836 ; that he had no copy of the letter; that the recollection was distinctly on his mind that he did
write such a letter ; that he was an agent for the Providence
Washington Office, and well. acquainted with the terms and conditions of a policy of insurance, and of the necessity of giving notice.
On his cross examination, he stated the contents of the letter.to
be a notice of the insurance of $ 6,000 at the 'American Office,
with a request that the necessary entry should be made on the
books of the company ; that he could 'find no letter from Mr.
Jackson, in reply; that he had not any distinct recollection of having received a reply; that he had no business of his own which reqyired a clerk, and therefore employed none for himself ; that his
impression was, that he put the letter into the post-office, but could
not say positively; and in reply to an interrogatory why he did
not take a copy of the letter to Mr. 'Jackson, answered as follows.
Jlnswer. "1The first reason is, which may have operated on my
mind, that I did not at that time know that it was necessary to get
from the office an kcknowledgment in wiiting that notice had been
received. I supposed it only necessary to make the communica-tioh in the usual way. And the other was, that a. er I removed to
New Jersey, my correspondence was so limited, that I did not always take copies ; sometimes they were copied by members "of
my familyr sometimes I copied minutes only, and sometimes did n't
copy at air."
Allen 0. Peck being sworn, and shown the letter from Samuel
G. Wheeler to him, dated December 13th, 1837, and a copy of
his reply, dated December 14th, 1837 (above referred to), testified,*
that it was the common practice to darry letters of this nature to
the Washington Office; that he recollected distinctly having an interview with Mr. Jackson, president of the Washington Insurance
Company, upon.the subject, at the Washington Office; and that he
had no doubt that he did carry the letter from Samuel. G. Wheeler,
of December 13th, 1837, to the Washington Office, and show the
same to Mr Jackson ; but he had no recollection of so carrying
said letter, or banding it to Mr. Jackson ; that his impression that
he did carry said letter, and present it to Mr. Jackson, is derived
from the fact that it was his custom to communicate such information in that way ; that whatever communication was made, was
made to Mr. Jackson; that the representation referred to in -the
first letter of Samuel G. Wheeler to the American Office, as be!ng in the Washington Office, was obtained bk him from the Washington Office for examination; that whatever communications were
made by him were made to Mr. Jackson, he being the active organ of the company ; that he had no doubt he did show the letter
aforesaid to Air Jackson. bui that he had'no recollection, of having

190

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

done so, and that the statement he now makes, that he did so, is
founded on the fact that such was his practice in similar cases;
that Mr. Jackson died in April, 1838.
Warren S. Greene deposed that there was no record, memorandum, or notice on the books, records, or papers of the Providence
Washington Insurance Company of insurance on the Glencoe Mill
by the American Insurance Company; that Mr. Jackson, late
president of the office, died on the 18th of April, 1838, having
been confined to his house by sickness between two and three
weeks ; that he was not confined so as to keop him away from his
business till his last sickness.
The complainant took the depositions of Joseph Strong, Richard A. Reading, Edward W. Laight, and Lewis Phillips, of the
city. of New York, and Joseph Balch and Charles W. Cartwright,
of Boston, as to the usage and practice of insurance companies,
who testified that it was not the practice of their or other offices,
after notice of a policy upon the same property at another office,
to require notice of the renewal of such policy at such other office.
To cross interrogatories, these deponents replied, that notice should
be given in the manner prescribed in the policy, and that where
such notices were verbal they were not sufficient, unless some
memorandum of them was made on the books of the company ;
that the practice of not requiring notice of the renewal of other insurance was confined to cases where the original notice was given
in the mode prescribed in the policy.
At November term, 1843, the cause came on for hearing, upon
bill, answer, and the testimony, when the court decreed that the
bill should be dismissed, with costs.
From this decree, an appeal brought the case up to this court.
The case was submitted on printed arguments, by J.7r. Whipple
and Mr. Wood, for the appellant, and .Mr. R. W. Greene and Xr.
Sergeant, for the appellees.
As the decision of the court turned upon the sufficiency of the
proof of the fact that notice was given to the company, the arguments of counsel upon other points are omitted.
.7Xr. Whipple, for the appellant, statea the case, and then proceeded.
The whole case (with the exception of something about the
merits having been tried at law) is involved in the above extracts
from the answers, and they present two questions. First, Is there
sufficient proof of the fact of notice ? and, secondly, If there is,
will the misrepresentation at the American Office have the same
effect as if it had been made at the Washington Office ? Tbe last
is in the nature of a preliminary question, and entitled to the earliest attention.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

191

Carpenter v.'Providence Washington Ins. Co.

(The argument upon this point is omitted.)
The great, and I consider the only, question in the case is the
sufficiency of the evidence to establish the fact of notice to the,
Washington Office previous to September, 1838 (the date of the
last and existing policy sought to be reformed), of the existence
of a previous policy at the American Office upon the same property. I say a previous policy at the American Office, because
there never was but one policy at that office, the policy of the 12th
December, 1836. No new policy was ever effected, but that policy, that insurance, was renewed on the 14th December, 1837,-by
a renewal receipt, and again renewed in December, 1838.
The representation of December, 1836, extended to all subsequent renewals, because it was the same insurance.
The clauses in the policy now in dispute require that notice
shall be given of "any other insurance" prior to or subsequent.
It notice had been given to the* defendants of the policy at the
American Office of the 12th December, 1836, and indorsed upon
the policy of the defendants, it woula be a strained construction of
the words "any other insurance," to extend them to subsequent
renewals of the same policy. Without any previous knowledge
of their opinions or practice, the plaintiff has taken the depositions
of the most experienced underwriters in Boston and New York.
The interrogatories propounded are in page 70 of the record.
By the answers of Joseph Balch and Charles W. Cartwright, it
appears, Ist, that notices are usually verbal ; 2d, that it is the
practice for the office to note the notice on the margin of the policy ; 3d, that it has not been the practice to require notice of the
renewals of policies.
By the depositions of brung, Phillips, Reading, and Laight, it
appears, 1st, that notices are usuallr verbal ; 2d, that it is considered the duty of the office either to reject the proposition and cancel the policy, or to make the indorsement on the books of the
company or on the policy ; 3d, that it is not the practice in New
York to require notice of a renewal.
It further appears by the depositions, that it is not the practice in
New York or Boston to make such a defence, unless in cases of a
well grounded belief that fraud has been practised.
The defendants have not attempted to establish any different
practice or usage in Providence. Here, as everywhere else, these
notices are usually verbal.
Mr. Reading says, -" When notice is given of anotlier policy,
we receive or reject it. If we reject it, we cancel our own policy.
If we accept it, we require no notice of the renewal."
I have referred to the answers to the cross interrogatories by
the defendants. The answers to the direct interrogatories are
equally strong and conclusive.
The prayer of our bill is for a "decree compelling said corn-

192

SUP11ME 'COURT.
Cirpenter v. Providence Washingtok lis.

Co.

pany to indorse said notice on said policy, or *otherwise acknowledge the same in writing, according to the term,, of their policy, as
they long since ought to have done," &c.
In the first place, it is not a bill to reform a written instrument.
'We do not ask that one line or one letter of the policy of September, 1838, should be altered, or differently interpreted from the
usual meaning of the words. We do not say that something was
omitted which-ought to have been inserted, or something inserted
which should have been omitted. The policy reads as both parties supposed it read, and means what'both supposed it meant. No
accident or mistake has prevented the exact meaning and intention
of both the parties from being fully and fairly expressed.
In bills for reforming written instruments, the proof 'is required
to be much stronger than in ordinary cases, because there is always
a presumption, a very strong presumption, that an instruient
which has received the examination and scrutiny of both the parties
fairly embodies the meaning, and the whole meaning, of both the
parties. In cases of this sort, says Mr. Justice Story, in his Commentaries on Equity, vol. 1, pages 168 and 169, the rule is, that
the fact must be " clearly made out by satisfactory proofs." Relief will be refused, says the same learned writer, "whenever the
evidence is loose, equiv ,cal, or contradictory, or is in its texture
open to doubt, or to opposing presumptions."
These and other rules of construction laid down by the same
learned writer are all founded in great good sense, and illustrate
most fully the wisdom of this branch of the law. As you increase
the presumptions against the relief sought, you increase the necessity for proof strong enough to overcome them, just as a head wind
and tide require more nerve and vigor at the oar.
Every case cited by the author in relation to insurance were attempts to alter the original policy. Every bill to reform a written instrument or contract is a bill to alter the contract. But the
present is more like a bill for the specific execution of a contract.
It goes not behind, but in front of, the contract. It requires a party
to fulfil what he agreed to fulfil in this very contract. The company agreed that, upon receiving notice of any other insurance,
they would assent or disseht. If the former, that they would enter
their assent upoA the policy or in some other writing. If they dissented, that they would notify us and cancel their policy. Instead
of undoing what has been done, the object of our bill is to compel
the other party to do what he has left undone. He has contracted
to do certain things upon our giving a certain notice. The contract specifies no fobi-of the notice. It may be in writing or verbal. It may be formal or informal. All that the underwriters require is, that in case of any prior or subsequent insurance, the insured will let them know it..
It is like all other liabilities depending upon notice, - the liabil-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

193

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

ity of an indorser or other surety in special cases, - like all other
liabilities, throughout the whole range of human transactions, which
are dependent upon the happening of some contingency. When
the ordinary evidence is given and not contradicted, the evidence
which is usually given of such contingency, the liability becomes
fixed, unless that proof is opposed by counter proof. I say counter
proof, because, unlike the bill to reform a written agreement, there
are no counter presumptions. Giving notice is an act in pais.
The law neither presumes that it was or was not given.
Many a poor wretch has swung upon the gallows without half
the evidence that we have presented. Many and many a conviction has been had, directly against the legal presumiption of innocence, upon evidence not half as precise and direct, nor proceeding
from men of half the character and intelligence.
I do not perceive why this office with so many years' premiums
in their pockets, paid by my unfortunate client, should be entitled
to stronger evidence than is usually given of such facts.
This brings us to the question of the evidence itself. The party
who gave the notice was Samuel G. Wheeler, who became a purchaser in October, 1836, and parted with all his interest in the
property on the 6th of December, 1837. On that day he conveyed
his moiety to Jeremiah Carpenter, the present plaintiff. The policy at the American Office was effected by Wheeler on the 12th day
of December, 1836.
In the first place, then, it must be admitted that Samuel G.
Wheeler was aware of the necessity of giving notice, and that he
had no design to conceal the existence of the policy at the Ameri-can Office. In both his depositions, he states that he then was and
for a long time had been the agent of the Washington Office to
procure policies for them in New York and elsewhere.
This agency is admitted, consequently his knowledge of the necessity of notice is admitted.
In the second place, he had no design to conceal the second
policy, for in his first application to the American Office (see his
letter of 14th November, 1836, and letter of Thornton in reply),
he refers Mr. Thornton to the Washington Office for a description
of the property. Mr. Thornton in his reply says, -, The survey at
the Washington Office was examined." It would be preposterous,
after this, to pretend that Wheeler did not intend to give notice of
the second policy. Had he intended a fraudulent concealment of
an over insurance, he would have applied to an insurance office in
a remote State, and not under the very eye of the defendants, referring to them for information.
Two fact,, then, must be admitted ; 1st, that Wheeler knew of the
necessity of giving notice, and that he intended to give it. Accordingly we find the positive testimony of Wheeler,
VOL. IV.
25
Q

194

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washi-ngton Ins. Co.

"I gave a notice, by letter, to the late president, Mr. Jackson,
about the time the insurance was effected, in December, 1806."
And again: -

" The recollection is distinctly on my mind at the present mo-ment that I did write such a letter."
In his cross examination he says," It was a notice of the insurance of $ 6,000 at the American
Office, with a request that the necessary entry should he made on
the books of the company."
" My impression is, that I put the
letter into the post-office myself."
But this is not all. On the 13th of December, 1837, he wrote
to the American Office that he bad sold his half of the mill to
Jeremiah Carpenter, and requested a renewal receipt to him. He
also says,
" There is insirance on this mill at Providence Washington Insurance Company for $ 15,000. Will you be so kind as to notify
them of the change of owners, and when you write to Mr. Carpenter state to him that you have done so."
On the day succeeding, the secretary of the American Office
wrote to Carpenter, that
" I have nodfied the Providence Washington Insurance Company that Mr. Wheeler has disposed of his interest to you, of
which they have made record. This company have made a similar record."
It seems that, out of greater caution, Wheeler, on the same day,
13th December, 1837, wrote a similar letter to the Washington
Company.
Mr. Allen 0. Peck, secretary of the American Insurance Company, swears, " That it was the common practice to carry letters of this nature to the Washington Office ; that he recollected distinctly having an interview with Mr. Jackson, president of the Washington
Insurance Company, upon this subject, at the Washington Office ;
and that he had no doubt that he did carry the letter from Samuel
G. Wheeler, of December 13th, 1857, to the Washington Office,
and show the same to Mr. Jackson ; that his impression that he
did carry the letter and show it to Mr. Jackson is derived from
the fact that it was his custom to communicate such information in
that way; that whatever communication was made, was made to
Mr. Jackson."
He again repeats, at the close of his deposition,' That he had no doubt he did show the letter to Mf.
Jackson,
but that he had no recollection of having done so."
It seems, also, that Mr. Peck was the man who Tent to the
Washington Office in November, 1836, to obtain the lrepresentation of the property, and that, he borrowed it for the use of the
American Office.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

195

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

Upon this proof, can there be any reasonable doubt that notice
was given?'
Wheeler swears to the fact unhesititingly. His whole subsequent conduct was based upon the belief that notice had been
given. It is certain that he intended to give notice, for he
referred the Amdrican Office to the representation of the property
at the Washington Office, in December, 1836. His testimony
is-not only unimpeached, but it is not even brought intp question.
Then it is also certain, that Wheeler wrote the letter of the 13th
of December, 1837, requesting the secretary of the American
Office to notify the Washington Office of the change of owners.
It is equally certain that Mr. Peck, then a clerk in the American
Office, did go to the other office, and did have an interview with
Mr. Jackson upon that subject. He swears that he recollects the
interview distinctly. Suppose he had stopped here, would not the
evidence of notice have been sufficient ? Was it ever known that an
officer of one office went to another to give notice of a change of
owners, unless there were policies upon the same property in
both ? Mr. Peck swears that he very ofteu went upon such errands, but he does not swear to an inslance unless both offices were
upon the same property.
But ir. Peck goes further, and swears that he has no doubt
that he read or showed the letter to Mr. Jackson, because such
was the custom, such his practice. Mr. Peck must mean that
sach was his invariable custom; for if he sometimes showed the
letter and sometimes kept it back, he could not swear that he had
no doubt in relation to the fact in this particular case. Do we not
all know that it is an invariable custom ? When mercantile 'information is requested.to be communicated to others, and the person receiving that information takes the letter with him for the sole
purpose of communication, and carries it, not in his pocket-book, but
in his hand, are we to suppose that he would depart from an established custom, and neither read or show the letter ?
It must be remembere4 that all the other statements or facts are
certain. That he did go there is certain, because the contemporaneous correspondence shows it. That he had no other business
there, that he started with this letter in his hand, that he had an
interview with Mr. Jackson upon this business, is all certain ; that
is, it is legally certain. It is sworn to by an honest and disinterested
witness, whom no man has yet doubted.
The court will observe that Wheeler, in his letter to the American Office, of the 13th of December, 1837, does not request the
secretary to give notice to tht Washington Office of the existence
of a policy at the American Office. He acted, in December,
1837, upon the belief that he had given that notice in December,
1836. His not giving that notice a second time is a confirmation
of his testimony that he did give it in 1836, because he must have

196

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

known that the fact of an officer of the American Office (who had
been there before for a statement of the property) going to notify a
change of owners would necessarily imply that there was a policy
at the American Office. This silence about the American policy
proves that Wheeler, in December, 1837, had no doubt that he
had given notice in 1836, because this was before any dispute was
apprehended.
When the loss took place, in April, 1839, Carpenter bad no
doubt that notice had been given of the American policy, for in his
preliminary proof forwarded to the Washington Office, he states
that the property was insured by both offices.
It will be remembered that the letter of the 13th of )ecember,
1837, which Peck carried in his hand to the Washington Office
and showed to Mr., Jackson, contained the statement of the policy
at the American Office.
How is this evidence met?
The answer is not evidence for the respondents.
The testimony of a single witness prevails against the denial
of an answer sworn to only by a defendant who has no personal
knowledge of the facts. Combs v. Boswell, 1 Dana, 474 ; 3 Eq.
Dig. 385-388; Pennington v. Gittings, 2 Gill & Johns. 208 ;
Clark v. Van Riemsdyk, 9 Cranch, 153 ; Knickerbacker v. Harris, 1 Paige's Ch. Rep. 209.
The answer, then, is most clearly no evide'nce for the defendants.
It purports to be the answer of the Providence Washington Insurance Company. The first answer states that these defendants answer aild say, " They never had any notice in any form" of the
three policies of December, 18.36, 1837, and 1838, at the American

Office.
" That the policy of the 27th of September, 1838, was executed by these defendants in entire ignorance of said policy, and
of the renewal thereof, executed by the said American Insurance
Company."
In the amended answer, they deny that the policies at the
American Office "were notified to these defendants in any form,
or that these defendants had'any knowledge or suspicion of the existence of said-policies, until long after the execution, by these defendants, of the policy of the 27th of September, 1838."
This amended answer was sworn to on the 7th of November,
'1843.
They do not say, "until long after the loss in April, 1839," but
long after September, 1838 ; and before April, 1839, they had notice of these policies at the American Office. Then these directors, this company, or some of them, admit that before the loss
they had notice of the policy at the American Office.
From whom did this notice proceed ? At what time ? What
was the notice to these defendants ? Did some one of their own

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

197

Carpenter" . Providence Washington Ins. Co.

company tell them that notice had been given by ir. Peck to Mr.
Jackson, in December, 1837 ?
Did not the notice) which by their answer they acknowledge-they
received before the loss, refer back to 1837? Did it not proceed
from the agencies which we had established? From the American
Office, or some of its officers ? If it proceeded from the agents,
it proceeded from us. Why keep back the time and the source
and the extent of this information ? If a disclosure of the whole
truth would not have injured their case, they would have disclosed
the whole.
But the amended answer states that they had no knowledge or
suspicion of the policies at the American Office, until long after
September, 1838.
, f such be the fact, itestablishes one very important point in the
case. It proves that Mr. Jackson was not in the habit of communicating all the transactions of the office, however material to
the interests of the whole. If they had no suspicion of policies
at the American Office, they remained in entire ignorance of the
fact, that in November, 1836, the clerk (Mr. Peck, at that time)
went to the Washington Office, at Wheeler's request, and borrowed
the representation of the property made to the Washington Office
by Egbert Reed & Company, in September, 1835.
Mr. Peck returned that representation. They were ignorant of
that-also. Mr. Jackson knew of this. Mr. Greene, the witness,
knew of this, for he was the secretary at the time, and probably
delivered the paper. He does not swear that he had no suspicion
of a policy at the other office until September, 1838. But this
answer shows that none of the other members of the company
knew of it.
So far as the answers go, they confirm the testimony of the

plainti s.
The only testimony on the part of the dMfendants is filled with
the same tendency.
Mr. Greene was the secretary of the officep from October, 1836,
down to the time of giving his deposition.
He swears that there was no letter on file from Wheeler giving
this notice, and no copy of any answer to it ;' and that it was the
usage to file and preserve the letters and copies of the answers.
Dabney swears that such was the practice at a preceding period.
The tendency of the evidence is to lessen the weight of Wheeler's deposition. It creates a counter presumption ; how strong
the court will judgq.
But what is very important is, that Peck's testimony has been
long known to the defendants. He was sworn as a witness upon
the trial at law. Greene was subsequently called, and from that
day to this they have never asked Greene whether he was present
when Peck carried Wheeler's letter to Mr. Jackson. The sec0t

198

SUPREME COURT,
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

retary is usually at the office from the time of opening to the time
of closing its doors. Peck was there the 13th of December,
1837.
Not a question is put to Mr. Greene in relation to this fact.
He is not asked when he first knew of the policy at the American
Office. If it was important for the new president, Mr. Dorr, who
was elected in May, 1838, to state that neither he nor the company ever knew or suspected the existence of these American
policies until long after September, 1838, how much inore important was it to them that the secretary never Suspected their existence at a long anterior period ; the man whose ignorance of
iheir existence would have established a most formidable presumption against the-plaintiff.
He says nothing about either of Peck's three visits upon this
very business. In the first place he went for the representation,
in November, 1836. The paper was in Greene's possession, for
he was the secretary. He obtained it, no doubt, from Greene.
He returned it to Grdene: He had a conversation the next year,
during business hours, when Greene must be presumed to have
been present.
The defendants long since must have seen that Peck's testimony
was upon a vital point of the case. They are at great pains to
esthlish the ignorance of Mr. Dorr, who had no connection with
the office at that period ; so great that Mr. Dorr swears for himself
and the company, in his first answer, that he never suspected the
existence of these policies ; and in the second, that he did not
suspect their existence until long after September, 1838 ; and although their swearing, which is not evidence, is deemed so very
important, yet the swearing of the man who was a competent witness, and most likely to have heard of the fact, had notice been
given, is deemed of so very little moment, that not a single question
is put to him upon the subject !
He has been called three times as a witness, once upon the trial
at law, in November, 1839 ; once upon this bill, on the 11th of
November, 1843, when he was asked, whether there was any entry
of notice upon the books of their office ; and again, as late as the
16th of January, 1844.
Upon neither of these occasions have the defendants hazarded
the question, what passed between Mr. Peck and Mr. Jackson,
%northe question, when he first knew of the policies at the American Office. He was their witness, and they asked such questions
only as would elicit favorable answers.
To be brief, then, in the mere opening of this important case, we
do say, and say earnestly, that the answers and testimony of the
defendants go strongly to confirfh the testimony of Peck.
Our claim to the entry of this notice upon the policy, together

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

199

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

with a claim for relief under this-bill, will be more properly enforced in the closing argument.
We suppose the real truth of the case to be, that it was wholly
and entirely owing to the neglect of Mr. Jackson that the entry
was not made in the books of the company. In December,
1837, he had reached an advanced age. Though he did not
wholly retire from business until March, 1838, yet it is well known
that he had been out of health for a long period, and consequently
more indifferent to all business concerns. Had Mr. Jackson been
living and in health in September, 1838, when the policy was renewed, some entry would have been made. When he received
notice, he probably deferred any action upon it until more information was obtained. The renewal of the policy found a new president, and the company took a new premium for another year,
with notice of I policy at another office. Can this be permitted ?
.11r. .R. W. Greene and Xr. Sergeant, for the appellees.
The bill charges, " that in the month of December, A. D.
1836, and in the month of December, 1837, and at .divers other
times, the said Providence Washington Insurance Company bad
notice of the said insurance at the office of said iLmeriean Insurance Company, and that said notices were given for the purpose
of having the same indorsed on the policy at the office of the
said Washington Insurance Company, or otherwise acknowledged
by them in writing2
The defendants deny that they have received notice of these
policies in any form, either by writing or parol ; and we will proceed, in the first place, to consider this question upon the evidence
which is in the cause, assuming7, for the purposes of the present argument, that this evidence is admissible ; and nor now ifiquiring
whether, even if it were proved, it constitutes a ground of equity
upon which this court can proceed.
The only evidence in the cause to prove notice of the policy of
December, 1836, is the deposition of S. G. Wheeler. The report of his testimony, contained in the bill of exceptions, is not
evidence in the present suit.
He states in answer to the fourth direct interrogatory,-" I

gave a notice by letter to the late president, Mr. Jackson, about
the time the insurance was effected at the American Office, in December, 1836."
In answer to the ninth cross interrogatory,
Did you put said
letter in the post-office yourself, or send it by some third person? "
he says, "My impression is, that I put it in the post-office myself, but I cannot say positively."
'
This evidence totally fails to prove even that a letter was deposited in the post-office. The witness says, in terms, that he can-

200

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

not say positively that he did put it in the post-office, though his
impression is that he did so.
Suppose these defendants were sued as the indorsers of a.promissory note, and the defence was want of notice. The rule in
such cases is not, that the holder of the note is bound, at all
events, to give notice to the indorser, but he must use reasonable
diligence to do so; and if, notwithstanding reasonable diligence,
the indorser does not receive the notice, that is his misfortune, and
constitutes no defence against the note. It has accordingly been
decided, that if the holder put a letter in the post-office at the
proper time, and properly directed, giving the indorser notice, this
is enough, although the letter may never be received. But this
deposition of Wheeler does not bring the case even within this rule.
The deposit of the letter in the post-office is not proved. The
witness merely gives a loose impression, six years after the date of
the transaction, and after the loss has happened.
By the clause in the policy of the defendants, requiring notice
of prior and subsequent insurance, the insured is bound at all
events to give notice to the defendants, and to bring it home to
their knowledge. Whether any other evidence except that agreed
upon in the policy can be received, that is, whether the contract
can be altered from its own express terms, so as to make it a different contract from the one expressly. agreed upon, is another
question, to be considered hereafter ; but assuming for the present
that the evidence is admissible, it must nevertheless prove actual notice brought home to the defendants. And in a case where the
parties have agreed in the policy upon written evidence as the only
proof of notice, the court, if they were to admit parol proof at
all, would at least require that this proof should be clear and positive. Even if the deposit of the letter in the post-office had been
proved beyond all doubt, it would only have furnished a presumption of its receipt by the defendants, liable to be rebutted by counter proof. In the case of a note or bill, the party is only required
to use due diligence, which is defined by law. But here, by his
own express agreement, he is to give the notice, so that the underwriter may act upon it. And it is most clear, that nothing is notice, according to the policy, which does not so reach the insurer
that he can give it an answer. To send a notice is not enough.
No diligence is enough. The contract is not to use diligence, but
to give the notice effectually. If a hundred notices were sent, and
no one of them reached the insurer, the case of the policy would
not be made out.
There are many circumstances connected with this letter, which
show that Mr. Wheeler must be mistaken in supposing that he
wrote it.
No copy of it was taken. The counsel for the plaimilf 5ays
Wheeler was flaware"of the importance of this notice 7 and was

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

201

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

determined to give it. In answer to the seventh direct interrogatory, he says :After retiring from business, in August,
1836, and removing from New York to New Jersey, I did not always take copies of my letters. I would sometimes take copies
of the leading points ; and at other times did n't take copies at
all."
Here was a letter involving the safety of a policy for $ 15,000
of property, of the importance of which, it is said, he was fully aware.
It must necessarily have been brief, not more than two or three lines.
One would suppose that Mr. Wheeler would, at least, have taken a
copy of the leading points of so important a communication. When
in business in New York, he says he had a clerk who always copied
his letters, and when in New Jersey he had no regular clerk for
himself. This witness is a shrewd business man, accustomed to
business correspondence, aware of the importance of preserving
copies of his letters, and was in the habit of taking copies of some
of his letters at the time he says he wrote this.
Of this brief but important letter, it seems, he did not think it
worth while to take-a copy himself, or even minutes,.or to request
any one of his family to do so for him.
By the twentieth cross interrogatory, he is asked why he did not
take a copy of this letter, being the same question which had been
put by the seventh direct interrogatory.
He says, in answer : -" 1 The first reason is, which may have
operated on my mind, that I did not, at the time, know that it was
necessary to get from the office an acknowledgment in writing,
that notice had been received; I supposed it only necessary to
make the communication in the usual way." How can this be ?
The same clause in the policy, which requires the notice, prescribes the mode in which it is to be acknowledged. This reason
was discovered between the ime of answering the direct and the
cross interrogatory. In the policy at the American Office, the
Washington Office policy is mentioned, in strict conformity to the
provision of the American Office policy, which is similar to the
provision in the Washington Office policy.
But aside from this, Wheeler knew that notice was at least important, whether acknowledged in writing or not, and would he not
have preserved so important a piece of evidence of the fact of notice as a copy of the letter containing it ?
Again, he received no letter from Mr. Jackson in reply.
Why did he not write again ? He knew that such a letter, if
received, would be answered by the Washington Office, according
to their invariable prdctice ? Again, why did he not inquire of
Mr. Jackson, the president of the company, about this letter when
he next saw him ?
The papers in the case show, that Wheeler was a man of unusual caution and care in business. The changes of property were
VOL. IV.

26

2N

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

all promptly and duly notified to both offices. The sale of his
half of the mill to the present plaintiff, Carpenter, was notified to
the Washington Office by lette:, dated December 13, 1837. Not
satisfied with this, which was the usual mode, he on the same day,
in a letter to A. 0. Peck, notifying the American Office of the same
sale, requests Peck to notify the Washington Office of the change
of owners, and when he wrote to Carpenter, to inform him that he
had done so. All this care is taken for his son-in-law and brother,
but for himself he is content to write a letter ; he is not certain that
he put it in the post-office himself; he takes no copy ; although he
received no reply, he never wrote again, nor, when he met the president, made any inquiry about the matter, and never knew whether
it was received or not.
We think these circumstances show that Mr. Wheeler is mistaken in his recollection, when he says he wrote such a letter. We
should have been better satisfied with Mr. Wheeler's testimony, if
he had produced to us his letter-book, by which we could see
whether copies of letters written at and about this very time were
not taken.
But however this may be, we submit to the court there is no
proof whatever that such a letter was ever put in the post-office.
And we might safely leave the cause upon the plaintiff's proof
alone.
But how stands the counter proof ?
In the first place, notice is denied in the original and amended
answer in the most positive form.
The answers are sworn to by Sullivan Dorr, the president of the
company, who was such at the date of the policy of September,
1838, and for some time before. All who know Mr. Dorr will
agree with me in saying he is incapable of making, still less of
swearing to, a statement which he does not conscientiously believe
to be true.
The plaintiff's .counsel cavils at the difference between the two
answers in the mode of denyingnotice.
The amended answer was made for the purpose of setting up the
judgment at law as a bar to the plaintiff's bill, and not to alter the
allegations of the fikst answer, denying notice.
Both answers deny that notice was ever given to the defendants,
in any form, of said policies, or either of them.
Both these statements are true. They never had notice in the
sense of the policy; that is, notice to be indorsed or acknowledged.
They never knew or heard of the policy at ale American Office
until after the loss ; then the policy at the American Office necessarily became public, and in the first proof of loss presented to the
Washington Company, the insurance at the American Office is
stated.
In another part of the amended answer, it is stated that the said

JANUARY TERM, 1.846.

203

Carpenter r. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

policies at the American Office were not notified to the defendants
in any form, or that the defendants had any knowledge or suspicion
of the existence of said policies, or either of them, until long after
the execution by the defendants of the policy of September 27th,
1838.
This difference was without any design. The counsel who drew
the answer supposed it was sufficient to deny notice until long after
the policy on which the defendants are sued was executed. If the
defendants executed the policy of September, 1838, without ever
having received any notice of any policy at the American Office,
and in entire ignorance of the fact of any such policy, that is fatal
to the plaintiff, and it was not material-at what time after that the
defendants came to the knowledge of the further insurance. It is
not pretended that the defendants had any notice or information of
the policy at the American Office after they subscribed the policy
of September, 1838. The plaintiff must have but a slight foundation for his claim of notice, when he attempts to draw aid from
such an answer.
But throwing the answer aside, let us consider the proof of the
defendants.
Warren S. Greene, a witness on the part of.the defendants,
states:-" That he had been secretary to the Washington Insurance
Company since October, 1836 ; and that no letter was received
from Samuel G. Wheeler, giving notice of the insurance at the
American Office, and that from the course of business in said office
he must have known it, had any such letter been received ; that he
could find no letter from Samuel G. Wheeler to the Washington
Insurance Office, giving notice of the insurance at the American
Office, and that there is no record at the Washington Office of further insurance at the American Office, and that there was no copy
of a letter acknowledging information of the policy at the American Office ; that the invariable practice of the office was, when
notice was received of any subsequent insurance, for the directors
to take the same into consideration, and to. give an immediate answer to the insured,, whether or not they consented to the indorsement of such subsequent insurance on the policy. That it was
also the invariable practice of the office carefully to preserve all
letters by them received, and also to keep copies of all letters by
them written."
Charles H. Dabney, predecessor of Mr. Greene, confirms his
testimony in relation to the usages of the office.
If Wheeler had sworn positively that he put a letter in the postoffice, directed to the President of the Washington Insurance
Company, at Providence, containing the notice of the insurance
at the American Office, it would at. most but furnish a presumption
that the letter was received, - a presumption ligble to be overthrown by proof that it was not received. We hdve, ofi this point,

204

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

the positive testimony of the secretary of the company, whose
duty it was to take all letters from the office directed to the company, to file all letters received by the company, and to preserve
copies of all letters written by the company. If such a letter had
been received, he must have known it. He says :- " There is
no record, memorandum, or notice on the books, records, or papers of that office, of insurance on the Glencoe Mill by the American Insurance Company."
His testimony is confirmed by the fact, that the directors were
never called together, nor any consultation had, in relation to any
,such letter.- It is confirmed further by the fact, that no letter was
ever written to Mr. Wheeler in reply, either consenting to the further insurance, or objecting to it.
It is, too, utterly inzredible that the directors ot this company,
if such a letter had been received, should not have taken some
action upon it. They had already insured the property to the
amount of $ 15,000, the largest amount taken upon any one mill,
and they had insured it to within three fourths of the value put
upon it by the owner, which, it is well known, is always a liberal
estimate, and one they did not exceed. Three fourths is the
largest amount which the company insures upon manufacturing property, or deems admissible to be insured upon it, by one or by several companies, as is fully proved.
The usage of the office, like that of every well regulated institution, was, and is, to insure from twd thirds to three fourths of the
value. Now it is utterly incredible that these directors should
have remained satisfied with a further insurance on this property to
the amount of $ 6,000, both policies exceeding the value of the
property as estimated by the owner himself, and making an amount
so inconsistent with the policy of the company. And the court will
perceive, that when Wheeler applied to the American Office, referring them to the representation made at the Washington Office for
the description and value of the property, they refused to insure at
all, - deeming, as they say, the amount insured by the Washington
Office as much as was safe to underwrite upon the property.
The only supposition which could render it at all credible that
these directors would have consented to the further insurance is,
that upon the receipt of the letter, they went and examined the
representation at the American Office, and conferred with the directors of that office, and found that $ 10,000 additional property
were represented to have been put upon the estate. Had this
been the case, such conference and examination could have been
proved by th6 directors of the American Company. But the truth
is, no such letter was ever written ; if written, there is no proof
that it was put in the post-office ; and, if put in the post-office, we
prove most conclusively -that itwas never received by the Washington Insurance Company.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

205

Carpenter r. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

We will not, in this stage of the cause, stop to consider the legal question, as to the effect which such notice would have, if
actually received, upon the policy of September, 1838. But we
will respectfully ask the attention of the court to the precise agreement of the parties, which is, that all shall be in writing. The
court will no more vary the contract on the equity side than on
the law side, nor give it an interpretation different from the plain
import of the words, when the words are free from ambiguity and
doubt. That would be to make a new contract, - a power which
a court of equity never assumes. It is not incumbent upon the
defendants to show why this part of the contract is in the terms
which are used, nor to vindicate its propriety. The fact, that it
is a part of the contract, is enough, as was said by this honorable
court in the judgment at law. Its requirements are not imprakcticable, nor even difficult to be complied with ; but the very precision and accuracy of the terms in which the clause is conceived
are evidence of the value set upon it by both the parties, and so
is the express, deliberate agreement, that every thing shall be in
writing, and nothing be trusted to parol. This court is not, however, insensible to the importance of the clause, nor of the offlees
it has to perform, which were fully recognized in the opinion at
law. In the first place, it makes the law in case of several insurances, between the insured and the underwriter, and between the
several underwriters, because it furnishes the evidence upon which
the law arises. This evidence, therefore, must be certain and
permanent, as "the other parts of the policy, and not left to depend
upon uncertain recollection, or liable to be affected by motives of
interest or bias. In the next place, it is indispensably necessary
to protect against fraud, being the only security against excessive
insurance, often made with fraudulent intention, and always a
temptation to fraud. And, finally, without going into all the numerous considerations connected with the matter, it is to cut off,
by the policy itself, such questions as it is attemp~ed here to raise,
the tendency of which to produce confusion and embarrassment
is so manifest in the present case.
If the evidence were even more satisfactory than it is, - if it
were not so completely contradicted, - still what does it tend to
prove ? Not a compliance, most obviously. It proves, on the
contrary, a non-compliance, and asks of this court to dispense with
that part of the contract which has not been complied with, upon
no other ground than that it has not been complied with.
The next piece of evidence relied upon by the plaintiff to prove
notice is the testimony of Mr. A. 0. Peck, in connection with
the letter of S. G. Wheeler to him, of December, 1837.
This testimony applies to the policy of December, 1837. The
argument, on the part of the plaintiff, is, that M~r. Peck showed
this letter to Mr. Jackson ; that, consequently, Mr. Jackson must
VOL. IV.

R

206

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence

Washington Ins. Co.

have known there was a policy on the Glencoe Mill at the American Office.
In the first place, Mr. Peck states, that he has no recollection
of showing this letter to Mr. Jackson, and his statement that he
did so is founded entirely upon his practice to do so in like cases.
The whole strength of the evidence, then, consists in the presumption derired from Mr. Peck's usual habits of business in this
particular. The thing which he was requested to do was no part of
his official dtty. It was a matter of favor to Wheeler, to be done in
a manner most convenient to himself. It would rest, therefore,
entirely in his own caprice, whether he would make a verbal communication to Mr. Jackson, or whether he would hand him the
letter. Ordinarily he would find it more convenient, perhaps, to
hand the letter, than to make a verbal communication, unless that
communication were brief, which was the case with the matter
to be communicated here. But the presumption derived from the
usage of an individual, in relation to matters of this sort, has none
of the strength of a presumption derived from usages in relation
to official acts, such as the making record of changes of owners
of property insured, or of notices of other insurance, of preserving
files of all letters received, and copies of all letters written by the
insurdnce company, and of replying to all letters received which
require a reply.
Now we oppose to me presumption derived from Mr. Peck's
usages, -the usage of Mr. Jackson," president of the Washington
Insurance Company, to act upon all notices of further insurance
upon the same property ; if the further insurance was subsequent,
to call the directors together, and decide whether to assent or dissent, and to give prompt reply to the insured.
Mr. Jackson is well known in this community to have been remarkable for promptitude, sagacity, and fairness in the discharge
of the duties of his office, an office which he held for more than
thirty years. No one knew the merits of his character more
th6roughly, in all these particulars, than the learned counsel who
has made the opening argument -for the plaintiff. But in this
argument, we claim for Mr. Jackson nothing more than the presumption which the law would make in his favor, that is, that the
duties of his office would be fairly discharged unless the contrary
is shown.
We oppose, therefore, the presumption derived from the usages
of the Washington Insurance Company and their officers to the
presumption derived from Mr. Peak's habits of business ; and we
say that the latter is entirely overthrown by the former.' The
fact, that no consultation was had among the directors, is conclusive to show that they could not have known of this policy at
the American Office. Mr. Peck states, that he recollects distinctly
that he had an interview with Mr. Jackson upon the subject, but the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

207

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

plaintiff's counsel cautiously abstained from asking him what communication he made to Mr. Jackson. The natural presumption is,
that he told Mr. Jackson what Mr. Wheeler requested him to tell,
which was, that Wheeler had sold his interest to Carpenter in the
Glencoe Mill. He could have had no motive to go beyond this.
There is, therefore, no proof of any informatiQn given to Mr. Jackson of the policy at the American Office, either by the exhibition
to him of Wheeler's letter to Peck, or by any verbal communication of Peck himself. The reasonable presumptions are all the
other way.
We refer in this connection to the memorandum indorsed upon
the record of the policy at the Washington Office, under date of
December 15th,. 1837 :" Samuel G. Wheeler informs by letter to this company, dated
Patterson, December 13, 1837, that he has sold his half of the
Glencoe Mill to Jeremiah Carpenter. It is, in consequence
thereof, agreed, that the risk assumed by this policy for account of
S. G. Wheeler continue for account of said Jeremiah Carpenter.
The original policy not being at hand, this indorsement is not put
thereon.
"RICHARD JACKSON, President.
"WARREN
S. GREENE, Secretary."
This memorandum shows that Mr. Jackson acted even with
regard to the notice of the change of property from Wheeler to
Carpenter, not from any information derived from Peck, but upon
the letter from Wheeler himself.
The memorandum also goes to show, that Peck could not have
shown Mr. Jackson the letter of Wheeler.
The letter to Peck and the letter to the Washington Company
are dated on the same day, December 13th, and on the 14th, Mr. Peck
I have notified the
replies by letter to Mr. Carpenter, stating, -"
Providence Washington Insurance Company that Mr. Wheeler
had disposed of his interest- to you, of which they have made
record."
The record at the Washington Office shows that Mr. Peck
must have been mistaken. He might have had the interview
with Mr. Jackson informing him of the sale from Wheeler to
Carpenter, and Mr. Jackson might have told him that he would
make a record of it, but receiving the letter from Wheeler, he
naturally referred -in his memerandum to the letter of Wheeler to
the Washington Company as 'the more authentic source of information. The insured are required by the 'terms Qf the policy to
notify the company of all sales of the property insured, and the
2ssent of the insurance company is necessary in order to cover
the property for the new owner. This is a provision comparatively unimportant. 'The insurance company de not rely so much

208

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

upon their knowledge of the character of the insured, as upon his
interest. They leave a material proportion of the property at his
risk. The provision, therefore, with regard to prior and subsequent insurance, is one of paramount importance, and yet the
court will perceive that the various changes and sales of this
property from 1835 to 1838 are all noted upon the books of the
Washington Insurance Company with great exactness and promptitude, but there is no memorandum or indorsement anywhere of
these Policies at the American Office.
Again; notice of a subsequent insurance must come from the
insured, or from an agent authorized to give this notice. It is a
notice which binds the insured if assented to by the insurer ; and
entitles the insurer, in case of loss, to contribution from the subsequent underwriters, each in proportion to the amount of their subscription.
The language of the clause is, "shall with all reasonable diligence give notice thereof to the corporation, and have the same
indorsed on the instrument, or otherwise acknowledged by them
inwriting."
The company vould not be authorized to make an indorsement upon rymor, .ncidental information, or upon any information
not communicated by the insured himself, or by his authorized
agent, nor beyond what he directs to be notified. Now Mr. Peck
was Wheeler's agent, not to notify to the Washington Office the
policy at the American Office, but to notify to them the sale from
Wheeler to Carpenter .; beyond that he had no authority. He
could give no notice which would bind the insured, and could give
no notice that would bind the insurer. What authority had he to
call upon the-Washington Insurance Company to indorsd a notice
of the American policy on the policy at the Washington Office,
or otherwise acknowledge the same in writing ?
But let us look at the letter itself. It states that the policy at
the American Office had expired, which was the fact. It is true,
he applies on behalf of the new owners for a renewal of this policy, but the letter does not state it was renewed, nor is there any
evidence in the cause that information of its renewal was ever
communicated to Mfr. Jackson, or to any officer or member of the
Washington Office, by Mr. Peck, or in any other way. The
whole extent, t/ian, of the information contained in the letter is,
that there had been a policy at the American Office which had expired, and that the new- owners of the property had applied for a
renewal. It may be reasonably inferred from the letter, that the
policy at the American Office was' on a distinct interest; at least
it leaves the matter in doubt. The letter states, that the expired
policy had been assigned to Epinetus Reed, and requests the company to make the new policy payable to the same individual.
Another important fact in relation to this matter is this. "The let-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

209

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

ter from Wheeler to Mr. Jackson, giving notice that Wheeler had
sold his interest to Carpenter, is dated on the same day with the
letter to Peck. Mr. Jackson might well suppose, that if there
was any insurance on this property at the American Office, which
was to be notified to the Washington Office, that Wheeler would
have stated it in his letter to him.
Again, the bill charges that the notice given to the Washington
Insurance Company was given "for the purpose of having the
same indorsed on: the policy at the office of the said Washington
Insurance Company, or otherwise acknowledged by them in
writing."
Was Mr. Peck's communication to Mr. Jackson, whatever it
may have been, made for the purpose of having it indorsed on the
policy, or acknowledged in writing ? If Mr. Jackson read this
letter, that part of it which relates to the policy at the American
Office was not intended by Wheeler for him, or to be read by
him ; -that part of the letter was intended for the American Company, and the American Company only. If Mr. Peck, therefore,
verbally or otherwise, made Mr. Jackson acquainted with that part
of the letter which related to the policy at the Ameiican Offie,
he did that which he not only had no authority from Wheeler to
do, but what Wheeler never intended he should do. If Mr. Peck
was a man of business, the presumption is directly the reverse of
what is claimed, namely, that he conformed to his instructions,
and did not transcend them.
The opening counsel for the plaintiff supposes the real truth of
the case to be, that it was wholly and entirely owing to the neglect
of Mr. Jackson that thje entry was not made upon the books of
the company, and attributes his neglect in this particular to his advanced age. He was not much older than the learned counsel
himself, and as competent to do business as he ever was in his life.
He was careful at this very time to make the proper indorsement
of the sale from Wheeler to Carpenter, a matter of no importance
compared with the notice of a subsequent insurance. Had Mr.
Jackson been living in September, 1838, when the policy sued on
was executed, the learned counsel thinks some entry would have
been made. Such a presumption is entirely gratuitous. The time
to make the entry was when the notice was received. This is
proved to have been the invariable practice of the office, and no
man was more strict in the observance of its usages than the late
Mr. Jackson. Besides, what entry could Mr. Jackson make?
He could only copy the letter, and that merely contains a prcposal
for further insurance for the new owners at the American Office
The notice could not be given till the insurance was made, nor
could it be taken till then, nor indorsed on the policy. Mr. Jackson would naturally say, if this proposition be acceded to, the owners will of course give us notice, and as no further information was
R
27
VOL. IV.

210

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Walshington Ins. Co.

given, Mr. Jackson, had he been living when the policy of.September,
1838, was subscribed, would have concluded that the proposal for
further insurance at the American Office had not been assented to.
At all events, he had no right to make the indorsement till such
notice was given.
The counsel suggests, that when Mr. Jackson received notice,
he probably deferred any action upon it until more information was
received. This concedes the whole case. Surely notice was not
to be of a character which would leave the insurance company ignorant or in doubt. It was to be explicit and certain. If this letter had been read to Mr. -Jackson by Mr. Peck, he certainly could
not have acted upon it, for the reasons which have been already
stated. He must, as a prudent man, have waited for further information. It was not his fault that the information was not more
perfect. The further information never came. There is not a
tittle of proof that any information was ever communicated of insurance at the American Office, subsequent to the time referred to
in Mr. Peck's testimony.
The learned counsel suggests that Mr. Greene, the secretary
of the Washington Insurance Company, must have been present
at the interview between Mr. Jackson and Mr. Peck, and must
have heard whiat wa& said by Mr. Peck. Suppose he had been,
he could not have heard any thing more than Mr. Jackson, and
there is no reason to suppose that Peck told Mr. Jackson any
thing more than Wheeler requested him to tell. The learned
counsel complains because the defendants do not ask Greene in relation to this matter. If he supposed Greene knew any thing, or
heard any thing, of this conversation, it was his place to have
inquired in relation to it. The burden of proof is on the plaintiff,
to prove notice to us, being affirmative proof; not on us to disprove
it. The plaintiff had an opportunity to prove the verbal communication of Peck to Mr. Jackson, by Peck himself, who was the
most proper witness for that purpose ; and yet he has cautiously
abstained from making any inquiry of Mr. Peck in relation to this
matter, but complains that we did not examine Mr. Greene, to ascertain if he were present, and if he were, what was said.
Again, the learned counsel complains that we did not ask Mr.
Greene when he first suspected the existence of the policies at the
American Office. We had no right to ask Mr. Greene such a
question. The plaintiff might have asked it. This resort indeed
establishes, that the ingenuity of the learned counsel, great as it
certainly is, was tasked far beyond any man's strength, being required to make a case where none really existed, by suggesting
probabilities where there was neither fact nor probability. All
the circumstances that ever took place in relation to this matter
are in proof.
The American Insurance Company, in the application of

JANUARY

TERM, 1S46.

211

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co

Wheeler, were referred to the representation at the Washington
Office for a description and estimate of the property. The plaintiff has not called Mr. Thornton to prove what -he said at the
Washington Office, when he called there to examine the representation. The probable presumption would be, 'that if he called there
for that representation, that he did so with a view to act upon a
proposition to underwrite upon the property. But the Washington Insurance Company would take no notice, of such a fact,
and it would make no impres§ion upon the mind of the officers,
because if the American Company should finally agree to underwrite, the assured were bound to give them notice as soon as the
policy was executed. If, therefore, Mr. Thornton, when he went
to the Washington Office to examine that representation, had.
stated to Mr. Jackson, that Wheeler had applied for further insurance, and that he had examined the representation with a view
to decide upon the application, Mr. Jackson would have thought
nothing of it, because if the negotiation should' finally terminate in
further insurance, he knew that Wheeler was bound to give him
notice. It will hardly be contended, at all events, that this was
notice of the policy at the American Office, or that the Washington Office would be at liberty to act upon it. Besides, Mr. Jackson, as an experienced underwriter, and no man was more so, must
have felt sure, that the American Company would not have made
any further insurance upon this property, the Washington Company
having already insured the property for more than three fourths of
its value.
In point of fact, therefore, if Thornton had specifically stated
to Mr. Jackson the purpose for which he called to examine the
representation at the Washington Office, it would give Mr. Jackson no reason to believe that the American Company would make
any further insurance upon the property, and in fact they did refuse
to make any further insurance upon that representation. Besides,
it would not be notice, being to a different intent and for a different
purpose, that is, to obtain information and nothing more.
The learned counsel, while he complains that we have not inquired of Mr. Greene if he recollects that Mr. Thornton came
to the office and borrowed the representation, and whatwas said by
him, was careful not to call Mr. Thornton himself.
One would suppose Mr. Thornton was the best witness to tell
what he said, as Peck is to tell what he said, and yet no inquiry
is made of Peck, and Thornton is not called. The fact that the
secretary of one insurance company borrowed.of another a representation would make no impression upon the mind of the sectotary or president of the other, even if the motive was state1, because they rely upon notice, being given them if the policy 3hould
be executed, and have no 'right to act upon any thing lete. t4r.
Greene has been under examination as a witness, and if the pluw"

212

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

tiff thought he knew or suspected any thing with regard to the
policy at the American Office, it was in his power to have inquired
of him. We have asked him all the questions we had any right to
ask him. His character is such. as the plaintiff's counsel well
knows, that he would have answered every question with the most
entire truth and candor.
The truth is, that he, as well as all the other officers at the
Washington Office, were taken entirely by surprise, when, after
the loss of the Glencoe Mill, they found the policy at the American Office.
'We have now reviewed all the evidence which has been offered
on the part of the plaintiff to prove notice of the policies at the
American Office. We think, from this review of the evidence,
that it is quite apparent not only that the plaintiff has failed to prove
'otice of the policies at the American Office, but that the defend.ts have disproved it. The failure to make out what seems to be
proposed is just as signal as the insufficiency of the purpose itself.'
The whole object seems to be to establish, that Mr. Jackson was
to perform the complainant's duty as well as his own, to speak
for the complainant where he was silent, to understand for him
without being told how he wished to be understood, and to act for
him without instruction or authority, because, in the event, it appears to have been for the interest of the complainant that he (Mr.
Jackson) should have so spoken, understood, and acted.
.Mr. Wood, for the appellant, in reply and conclusion.
I propose, in this reply, not to repeat the arguments advanced
in openin the case.
I shall attempt to establish the following propositions 1st. That the Washington Company, who are the first insurers,
had notice of the second insurance in the American Office.
2d. That this notice, under the circumstances of this case, is
sufficient to bind them in equity to pay for the loss under their
policy.
There are a few miscellaneous topics discussed in the close of
the respondent's argument, which I will first dispose of.
It is said that the complainant had his election of two reredies,- one at law, the other in equity,-and that having first
selected the common law remedy, he is precluded from going into
equity for relief.
This would be true in a case where the two tribunals have concurrent jurisdiction. But it does not apply to a case like the
present, where the common law court has no relief to give, and the
party in going there mistook his remedy.
Where a party mistakes his remedy at law, and fails on tha
ground, he may still, at law, resort to the appropriate remedy and
recover.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

213

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

It was proper in this case to try the remedy at law first. Because, although the relief sought is strictly equitable, yet of late
years common law courts have extended their remedies in many
cases so as to embrace what is strictly equitable relief.
This court, however, has shown, a disposition to keep the
remedies in the respective courts distinct, and we therefore abandon
our former ground, and resort to the equity side of the court. The
learned justice intimated, in no equivocal language, that we had, in
the first instance, mistaken the proper forum.
It is said we can get no relief in equity different from law, on
a bill for specific performance. That will depend ,on circumstances
and the character of the relief sought. We do not ask the court to
put upon the contract an interpretation different from the common
law court. But we seek relief, under the equitable circumstances
of this case, against certain requirements, which the rigid rules of
the common law will not dispense with, but which in equity will
be dispensed with, when, by an adherence to them, they will become an engie of fraud.
If we have made out such a case, equity will relieve us. The
court of equity does not interpret the contract differently from the
court of law, but relieves against some of the requirements of the
contract, and even of the law bearing upon the contract, where the
parties have acted in a way which in equity amounts to a dispensation with those requirements.
My first proposition is, that the Washington Company had notice
of this second insurance at the American Office.
This matter is discussed in the opening argument, from page 193
to page 198. Samuel G. Wheeler proves that he sent the notice to
Jackson, the president, by letter, in December, 1836. That he
sent such a letter, he is certain and p6sitive ; the impression upon
his memory is, that he personally put the letter in the post-office.
Such an impression is satisfactory unless overcome. This evidence
is corroborated'by other facts and circumstances. His letter of
the 13th of December, 1837, to the American Office, acc6mpanied
with the evidence of Peck, is strongly corroborative of the above
testimony. A letter informing them of a change of ownership,
with a request that he, Mr. Peck, would communicate -it to the
Washington Office, accompanied with Peck's evideoe that he is
satisfied he communicated this matter to Mr. Jaekson, the president, by showing him the letter, because it was his custom to
communicate such information in that way, is strong evidence to
satisfy the 'mind that Jackson had such notice. Would Mr. Jackson receive such information from another
office in his immediate neighbourhood, and send the representation
of the property to the American Office in November, 1836, without getting from such circumstances notice that there was another
insurance in that office ? If he could, it is impossible to consider

214

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

him the shrewd business man that they.represent him to be. This
evidence, standing unimpeached, is amply sufficient to satisfy a jury,
or a court acting in the place of a jury, that notice of this second
insurance in the American Office was brought home to the
respondents.
It remains to consider the views taken of this subject on the
other side.
It is said the answer of the defendants is evidence in their favor,
that they never had such notice.
An answer by a party who states a fact of his own knowledge
which is responsive to the bill, and free from all suspicion, is
evidence ; but not such an answer as this ; the answer is too good
to have any confidence reposed in it. It states, positively, that
the defendants had no such notice.
On such a point they could only swear honestly to their belief.
Notice, in such cases, is usually given to the officers of the company, who have the active management of the concern. Greene
or Jackson would have been the persons to receive it, and it would
have been their duty, when received, to have it filed or entered on
the minutes. It would only come before the board through their
-instrumentality.
Notice to those officers would in law be notice
to the company. How could this corporation say that Jackson
had not received such notice ? How could Dorr, the n6w president, who came in afterwards, and who was a perfect stranger to
all these transactions, swear positively that Jackson, in his lifetime,
had not received this notice. Experience has shown that answers
generally, in litigated cases, but more especially such an answer,
should be viewed with great jealousy. The remark in page 202 of
the respondents' argument may furnish a clue to this answer. It
is said they never had notice, ir the fense of this policy, that is,
notice to be indorsed or acknowledged. If that is the cover under which this positive denial of notice in the answer rests, it must
pass for as much as it is worth.
But the respondents have put in a supplemental answer, in which
they qualify, to a certain extent, the positive denial in the first answer, by stating that they had not such notice until long after the
execution by these defendants of the policy of the 27th of September, 1838. This clearly "implies that they did get such notice,
though obtained long after that time, -a
notice to be indorsed or
acknowledged.
Theyr surely did not mean to say that they got
such notice after the fire. When did they get it ? What do they
mean by long after
It may mean ond month or two months.
There is a point of time at which it' is somewhat important to
know whether, they had that notice, nafnely, in December, 1838,
when the American policy was renewed. It was their duty to tell
us plainly'when they got- that notice. The manifest inference is,
that they got the notice before or at the time of the renewal of the

JANUARY TERMf, 1846.

216

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

policy at the.American Office, otherwise they would have awid
they had it not then. This is a circumstance of some importance
in the view hereafter to be presented.
It is said that Wheeler has only a loose impression on his mind
that he sent the letter to Jackson. He does not give any-such
epithet. It is the impression on his memory, that he himself put
the letter in the post-office. The guarded caution with which he
speaks entitles him to the more credit. The reason why Wheeler
did not preserve'a copy of the letter is sufficiently accounted for.
It is asked why Wbeeler did not write again to Jackson, when
he received no reply to his letter, and why he did not speak about
it to Jackson the next time he saw him. In reply I might ask,
Why do merchants and others, when dealing with those in whom
they repose confidence, omit tohave contracts reduced to writing,
when required by the statute of frauds ? And when they reduce
them to writing, why do it by letter, embracing only the heads, instead of entering into special agreements ? We all know, in p.actice, how these things are done. And perhaps 'persons dealing
with insurance companies are as oftefi as in any other cases inattentive to those niceties and particularities.
To rebut the evidence of Wheeler, much reliance is placed on
the testimony of Greene, that no such letter can be found in the
Washington Office, no memorandum of it on the minutes or elsewhere, and no entry of its having been laid before the board, as
usual in such cases.
There can be no doubt that Wheeler meant to give the notice.
He could not have been guilty of the absurdity of having two insurances in two offices in the immediate neighbourhood of each
other, and of attempting to conceal a second insurance. A loss and.
claim for compensation *ould inevitably lead to detection, It was
the interest of Wheeler to give the notice. It was the duty of
Jackson, the president, when the notice was received, to lay it before the board and have it entered in the office. Both Jackson and
Wheeler are represented in the respondents' argument to be punctual business men.. The inference from the interest of Wheeler
is, that he sent the notice. The inference from the duty of Jackson is, that it was not sent. The one is a fair set-off against the
other. Then we hqve the positive evidence of Wheeler and of
Peck, which are not overcome. The omission to examine Greene
as to his personal knowledge on the subject raises a strong suspicion that this letter was received, but omitted to be placed on
the files, and that notice was received through Peck. It is said,
on the other side, that we ought to have examined him on this
point. We rely on our own evidence; they call this witness to
rebut it. They go half way in the inquiry, and tell'us that we
ought to have pursued that inquiry for them, - that we should have
examined their own witness, called to rebut our evidence, on the

216

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

points on which it was all important he should have been examined
in order to render such 'rebuttal of any avail at all. This would
certainly be a novel mode of proceeding.
I shall now proceed to the second proposition. This notice
ought to bind the Washington Company in equity.
(This part of the argument is omitted.)
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity on a policy of insurance made by the
defendants. The original policy, executed September 27thd, 1835,
for one year, and annually renewed till September, 1838, contained the following clauses :-"
And provided further, that in case
the'insured shall have already any other insurance against loss by
fire on the property hereby insured, not notified to this corporation, and mentioned in or indorsed upon this policy, then this insurance shall be void and of no effect. And if the said insured,
or their assigns, shall hereafter make any other insurance on the
same property, and shall not, with all reasonable diligence, give
notice thereof to this corporation, and have the same indorsed on
this instrument, or otherwise acknowledged by them in writing, this
policy shall cease and be of no further effect." A loss having occurred on the 9th of April, 1839, an action at law was instituted. to recover the amount of the defendants, on which final
judgment was rendered in their favor in this court, at the January
term, 1841. (See Carpenter v. P rovidence Washington Ins. Co.,
16 Peters, 495.) This was chiefly on the ground, that another
policy had been effected on the same property at another insurance
office, in December, 1836, and renewed yearly till December, 1838,
but which had not been "1mentioned in or indorsed on this policy,", or otherwise acknowledged by them (the defendants) in
writing."
For various other particulars connected with the case, reference
can be had to the above case, and the statement which precedes
this opinion. Under these' circumstances, the complainant next
resorted to the bill now in consideration, and alleged, that " in the
month of December, A. D. 1836, and in the month of December, A, D. 1837, and at divers other tiles, the said Providence
Washington Insurance Company had notice from the said H. M.
Wheeler & Co. of the said insurance at the office of said American Insurance Company, in Providence, and" said notices, so given, were given for the purpose of having the same indorsed on the
policy at the office of said Providence Washington Insurance
Company, or otherwise acknowledged by them in writing. And
your orator supposed that the said Providence Washington Insurance Company had peiformed their part of said contract in this
behalf, as in equity and good conscience they were bound to do."
He then added, -" Wherefore, inasmuch as your orator is

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

217

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

remediless at and by the strict rules of the common law, he lrays
your honors to issue a decree compelling said Providence Washington Insurance Company to indorse said. notice on said policy,
or otherwise acknowledge the same in writing, according to the
terms of their policy, as they long since ought to have done, and
to compel said Providence Washington Insurance.Company to pay
your orator said sum of fifteen thousand-dollars, with interest from
the time of said loss, andhis costs."
The defendants, in their answer, deny that they ever had notice
in any form of the additional insurance, or not till long after the execution of the policy now in question, and object to the admission
of any evidence on the subject, except such as is in writing, according to the stipulation in the policy itself. And they further
deny,' " that the plaintiff has any equity to compel these defendants to indorse a notice of such previous or subsequent insurance on said policy, or to acknowledge the same in writing."
They then aver, that if the additional policy had, been communicated to them, and the present insurance still continued, it would
have beeft void, because false represeniations, material to the risk
in respect to the value of the whole property, were made, affecting the additional policy, and that the probability is, the piesent one would not have been continued on -seeing the additional
policy, as that is for $ 6,000, and the present one $ 15,000, making an aggregate insurance of $ 21,000, when' in the original statement to the defendants, the whole property was valued at only
$ L9,000, and when it is not thp custom of insurance companies to
take risks on this kind of property beyond three fourths of its value, in order to keep the insured still interested to the extent of the
other fourth, and thus likely to use greater precautions against fire,
and lessen the risk of the insurers, compared with what it would
be if an additional insurance was obtained covnering the whole value.
It will be seen, by this state of the case, that important q-estions, both of fact and law, are involved in it ; - of fact, whether
the additional policy was ever made known to the defendants for
the
,urpose
of being acknowledged in writing ; and of law, whether, in that event, it was their duty so to have acknowledged it,
and, not doing o, whether this court can now compel them to do
it. There are other.considerations which arise in the course of
the inquiry that will )receive' attention, but are incidental, rather
than raised directly through the pleadings.' The testimony in
support of the leading allegation in the bill is not very complicated.
But how much of evidence should be required to prove that allegation, under the principles applicable to the circumstances of this
case, is one of some difficulty, and is first to be settied. Wherz
an answer is responsive to a bill, and, like this, denies'a fat unequivocally and under oath, it must in most cases be proved not
only by the testimony of one witness, so as to neutralize that deniVOL. xv.
26
S

218

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

al and path, but by some additional evidence, in order to turn the
scales for the plaintiff. Daniel v. Mitchell, I Story's Rep. 188 ;
Higbie v. Hopkins, 1 Wash. 0. C. R. 230 ;. The Union Bank of
Georgetown v. Geary, 5 Petera, 99. The additional evidence
must be a second witness, or very strong circumstances. 1 Wash.
C. C. R. 230 ; Hughes v. Blake, I Mason's C. 0. R. 514 ; 3 Gill
& Johns. 425 ; 1 Paige, 239 ; 3 Wend. 532 ; 2 Johns. Ch. R. 92.
Clark's Ex'rs v. Van Riemsdyk, 9 Cranch, 153, says, "with
(Neale v. Hagthrop, 3 Bland's Ch.
pregnant circumstances."
567 ; 2 Gill & Johns. 208.)
But a part of the cases on this subject introduce some qualifications or limitations to the general rule, which are urged as diminishing the quantity of evidence necessary here. Thus, in 9 Cranch,
160, the grounds of the rule are explained ; and it is thought proper
there, that something should be detracted from the weight given to an
answer, if from the nature of things the iespondent could not know
the truth of the matter sworn to. So, if the answer do not deny the
allegation, but only express ignorance of the fact, it has been adjudged that one positive witness to it may Suffice. 1 J. J. Marshall,
178, So if the answer be evasive or equivocal. 4 3. J. Marshall, 213; 1 Dana, 174 ; 4 Bibb, 358. Or if it do not in some
way deny what is alleged. Knickerbacker v. Harris, 1 Paige, 212.
But if the answer, as here, explicitly denies the material allegation, and the respondent, though not personally conusant to all
the particulars, swears to his disbelief in the allegations, and assigns reasons for it, the complainant has in several instances been
required to sustain his allegation by more than the testimony of
one witness. (3 Mason's C. C. R. 294.) In Coale v. Chase, I
Bland, 136, such an answer and oath by an administrator vias
held to be sufficient to dissolve an injunction for matters alleged
against his testator. So is it sufficient for that purpose if a corporation deny the allegation under seal, though without oath (Haight
v. Morris Aqueduct, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 601) ; and an administrator
denying it under oath, founded on his disbelief, from information
communicated* to him, will throw the burden of proof on the
plaintiff beyond the testimony of one witness, though not so much
beyond as if he swore to matters within his personal knowledge.
3 Bland's Ch. 567, note ; I Gill & Johns. 270 ; Pennington v. Gittitigs,-2 Gill & Johns. 208. But, what seems to go further than
is necessary for this case, it has been adjudged in Salmon v. Clagett, 3 Bland, 141, 165, that the answer of a corporation, if called for by a bill, and it is responsive to the call, though made by a
"corporation aggregate under its seal, without oath," is competent
evidence, and "cannot be overturned by the testimony of one witness alone " We do not go to this extent, but see no reason why
such an answer, by a corporation, under its seal and sworn to by
the proper officer, with some means of knowledge on the subject,

JANUAR-Y

TERM, 1846.

219

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

should not generally impose an obligation on 'the complainant to
prove the fact by more than one witness. (5 Peters, 111 ; 4
Wash. C. C.-R. 601.) Here the denial by the corporation is explicit and responsive to the-bill, and its truth sworn to by its president, " according to the best of his knowledge and belief." The
only difficulty is in respect to the extent of that knowledge. He
was not the president of the company at the time 'the information
of the second insurance is alleged to have been given. Nor is it
relied on in argument, that he, was then a member and lived near,
or was for any reason likely to be consulted when such notices
were received. But he has since had access to all the files and
records, in his official capacity, so as to know if any letter on this
subject appears to have been received, and therefore testifies
with some means of knowledge. And though it is admitted, that
the certainty is not so great against the reception of the notice as
if Jackson himself was alive and testified against it, yet, in the
nature of the case and by the precedents, the denial is strongly
enough made and supported to impose on the complainant the
proof of his allegation by something more than the testimony of
one witness, though not so much more, it is conceded, as the
"pregnant circumstances" before alluded to.
The next inquiry is, whether the material allegation in this case
is thus proved ? On an examination of the evidence, it will be
found that not even one witness swears positively to it ; and whatever is sworn in support of'it is much impaired by other proof.
The allegation, it will be remembered, is, that in December,
1836, and divers other times, the defendants had notice from the
insured of the second insurance, given for the purpose of being
indorsed on the policy, or acknowledged in writing.
There is no attempt to prove any such notice except on two occasions, - one in 1836, and one in 1837. The only witnss called to support the first is Mr. Wheeler. He testifies, that about
the time of the second insurance, in December, 1836, he wrote a
letter to the president of the Providence Washington Company,
stating that such an insurance had been.effected, and thinks he put
the letthr in the post-office. This is all on that point in behalf of
the complainant concerning this notice.
It is to be observed, that the testimony of Wheeler, in its full
extent, does not prove the fact that information of the second insurance ever actually reached the defendants for the purpose of
being indorsed or acknowledged, but merely that a letter was written for that purpose, and probably put in the post-office.
Though such evidence, standing alone, in the case of notice of
non-payment of bills of exchange and promissory notes, is sufficient,
under mercantile usage, to raise a presumption that the holder had
used due diligence, yet even in such cases it is notheld to prove the
actual receipt of notice. The Bank of Columbia v. Lawrence, 1

220

SUPRl-ME COURT.
Carpenrter v. 'Providence Washington Ins. Co.

Peters, 582, and Dickinsv. Beal, 10 Peters, 581. Much less can
it prove the receipt of it where no such usage'exists, as in the case
of policies of insurance.
When we look for any-other proof to sustain or strengthen
Wheeler's evidence, thus defective, it will appear to be weakened
rather than strength~ned by the other testimony and circumstances.
Because, first, such a letter, if ever received, would probably be
preserved on the files of the office. So would it probably be answered, as that wai not only the usage in respect to all letters on
official business, but it is shown, specially, to have been the custom of the office to act forthwith and officially on letters like these
when received, and to send a reply in conformity to the decision
of the company upon them. Yet no answer is stated ever to have
been received concerning this ; nor is any trace of an answer, or
of the original, found in the office, either in the.recollection: of
other officers, or in any files, -books, records, or even memoranda.
. Again ; the insured, if conscious that such a letter had been
sent, and reached its destination without being answered, would
naturally have written, or called to ascertain, why information of the
second insurance was not acknowledged in writing, apprized as the
insured must be, both by the published terms of insurance and the
policy itself, that the latter was void and ceased to operate without such an acknowledgment, and that it was the duty and interest
of the insured to see to -this acknowledgment being made
Nor
is it a sufficient answer to the last objection, that he might rest
quiet without a reply, supposing the acknowledgment had been indorsed on the policy, because the policy was in the possessioh of
the insured, and not of the insurers ; and hence it was well known
to the insured that no such indorsement had been made on that.
It is difficult, likewise, to discover any adequate motive for not
replying to the letteL, if it was ever received, unless it be one resting on a gross fraud. If the company, or its president, on a receipt of it, should not choose to continue the policy, as would
probably be the case, for reasons before mentioned, they would
feel no reluctance to state the fact to the insured, anl thus end a
risk where the insurance exceeded the value Pf the property, and
differed so much from their usual prudent terms of underwriting.
But if they did choose to continue'it, they would be likely soon to
reply, stating that fact, because, without such a reply, they knew
the insured would probably consider the policy terminated, in conformity with the stipulations in it, and would insure elsewhere, and
they lose a premium which they had decided it was expedient for
the company to retain.
This is all which it is considered necessary to say in respect to
the evidence of the notice supposed by the plaintiff to have been
given bv Wheeler in 1836.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

221

Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

But it is-urged, beside this, that another notice of the additional
insurance at the Providence American Company was given, the ensuing year, in December, 1837, through Mr. Pack. It is manifest, however, that 'this last notice, like the other, must stand or
fall by itself, as they are distinct or disconnected in time and circumstances, -not parts of one transaction, - and are attempted to
be sustained by testimony not cumulative but entirely different.
What is proved on this matter by Mr. ±eeck ? Merely that a letter, written to him for another purpose, contained a statement of
the existence of the second insurance, and his impression that he
showed the letter to the president of this company for the other
purpose. It will be seen that his testimony is rather argumentative
from his usual habits of business, than positive, that he showed the
letter at all to the president ; but if he did, it is conceded that the
object was to communicate merely The other fact, - ,, the change
of owners in the property" (see Wheeler's letter). And if he
carried the letter in his hands, which contained other matter, mentioning an insurance at the Americah. Office, he was not desired, as
appears by the'letter itself, to communicate that part of it, nor doeg
he say, in his written reply, that he had communicated that part,
but only "notified the Providence Washington Insurance Company, that Mr. Wheeler had disposed of his interest to you, of
which they had made record."
Beside this, and against any such notice having been given or intended for the purpose set up in this bill, there are most of the
collateral considerations which have been enumerated in opposition to the other notice, alleged to have been given the previous year.
It must also be reeollected, that a letter was written to the president by. Wheeler on the same day he wrote to Peck, saying nothing in it concerning any second' insurance ; and the president
promptly answered it, saying nothing in reply concerning that subject, but all which was *expected as to the other. On this, it will
occur immediately to ask, if Peck had given such notice, or been
requested to do it, or even if Wheeler had before given it, why
Wheeler did not at once write again, stating that an answer had
been received as to the notice of a change of property, but none
as to the second insurance. In short, a convincing proof that
nothing was communicated but the change of owners in the property is, that nothing more seems intended to have been communicated ; that nothing more was contained in the letter to the president, and nothing more wished to be stated by Peck, and no witness
testifies that the other information was actually read by, or named
to, the president, and no collateral fact renders the last circumstance probable. This is the whole evidence in the case, on this
point, that ;s essential. To show maore fully that under it none of
the material questions of law arise or can be considered, which
might otherwise be presented, it may not be unimportant to discsim.
S*

222

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

inate and examine briefly what those questions are, and what must
be proved in order to raise them.
Several precedents exist, where respondents in equity are al]owed, by way of defence, to "prove, by parol, that the written
contract relied on does not contain all the original terms agreed,
and in this way entitle themselves to be exonerated under the
terms proved by parol.
(Woollam v. Hearn, 7 Yes. 211 ; 2
Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 770 ; and Sugden on Vendors, 125 to 140,
and cases cited.) Others exist, of this kind of proof being at
times permitted to complainants in relation to separate subsequent
terms of agreement modifying the prior ones, and on those subsequent termsbeing proved by parol, a recovery be allowed. 4
Bro. Ch. R. 514 ; I ibid. 92. There are other precedents of
complainants seeking to show by 'parol a portion of a contract
existing when the original was made, but which was omitted from
it by accident, and against doin which some of the authorities
seem to decide. (7 Ves. jr. 211 ; 15 ibid. 518 ; Story's Eq.
Jurisp. § 770, and note.) On the contrary, some decide for it. (2
Ves. seh. 375 ; I ibid.456 ; 1 Starkie on Ev. 1015-1018.) But
neither of these classes of cases can be claimed as embracing this.
Here the parol proof is offered by a complainant, rather than by
way of defence ; and it is not pretended that any omission has
happened of a part of the original contract, or that there has been
any new separate contract modifying that.
On the contrary, in the most natural aspect of the case, it is
one of a complainant attempting to show, by parol, a fact, which,
if true, is supposed to establish a neglect or wrong in the defendants, - a breach .of official duty happening sometime after the contract of insurance was made, - by not acknowledging then in
writing the receipt of information that another policy had been obtained on the property, and saying in reply, under these new circumstances, that the first contract should either continue or terminate.
This presents, it will be seen, a question somewhat novel, namely,
whether the specific performance of a duty in private life, not
of a contract, can be enforced by courts of equity, and a party
compelled, by a sort of mandamus, to acknowledge in writing what
he had never promised so to acknowledge.
That question, however, need not now be decided, as such a
duty is not claimed to exist except where a notice of the second
insurance is actually received. And to prove such a receipt here,
the evidence offered is certainly insufficient, whether requiring only
one positive witness, unimpaired, or something-more than one.
But there is another aspect of the case, which would present a
different question of law, if it was set out specially in the bill, and
was supported by any stronger proof as to the material fact. It is,
that the respondent should be considered as barred or estopped

JANUARY

1

TERM, 1846.

223

Carpenter v.. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

from setting up the want of an acknowledgment in writing, if that
want was the result of his own neglect of duty. In that view, both
the receipt of the information, and a consequent obligation to-make
an acknowledgment of it in writing, must be satisfactorily established before any neglect of duty can be imputed. But, as already
shown, the first fact, the receipi of the information, is not established in that manner ; and, if it were, some difficulty might exist
as to the second point, in considering a mere omission to reply as
a wrong, and such a wrong as to estop the insurers from making
an objection expressly provided for and allowed in the policy.
Because it is not the insurer, but the insured, on whom the obligation seems to be imposed to have the notice of the further insurance
reduced to writing, as a condition precedent to a recovery. It is
the insured who by that further insurance increases the risk of the
former insurers, and who ought, therefore, to have it .both communicated and acknowledged in the manner stipulated, in order to
render it'sure that a continuance of the first risk is assented to.
And though an omission to answer a letter from the insured might
incommode him, and be a breach of comity, it is not easy to
discover any engagement or promise which it violates.
Supposing, however, the bill to be broad enough -in its allegations, and the sending of notice of the second insurance proved,
and the duty to acknowledge it, if received, to be clear, .we might,
in most cases like this, enforce a discovery of the receipt of it, if
coming to hand; and might enjoin the insurers against using, by
way of defence, a circumstance caused by their own misconduct.
(Baker v. Biddle, 1 Bald. 0. 0. R. 405.) But whether we could
go further, and enforce a recovery for the loss on the equity side
of this court, when an action had been brought for it on the law
side and failed, and other remedis
there
wrong done, is a question open to doubt, may
and still
need exist
not, for
for any
the
reasons before stated, be now decided.
Le Guen v. Gouverneur,
1 Johns. Cas. 48 ; Simpson v. Hart, 1 Johns. Oh. ft. 91;
Gordon v. Hobart, 2 Sumner's C. 0. f. 401.
Finally, it is urged, that a fraud has been perpetrated here, and
that frauds constitute at all times a distinct and suf.cient ground for
a recovery in chancery. The fraud, if existing here, would not
be in failing to answer the receipt of information of the second
policy, stating frankly, as convenence and a spirit of courtesy required, whet
the original insurance would be continued longer
or not; but in omitting to give full explanations on the subject
when the insured applied for a renewal of. the policy, and in proceedina then to take a further premium, with a cove
desigrn to
defeat the insurance on account of the second policy, provided
any loss should happen.
The rule of equity is very bread to prevent a fraud, which
would exist if one was permitted "to derive a benefit from his

224

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins. Co.

own breach of duty and obligation." 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 781.
And it has been laid down, that "if by fraud or misrepresentation
one prevents acts from being done, equity treats the case as if it
were done."
1 ibid. §439 ; 11 Yes. 638.
In the bill, there is an averment of fraud, and, at the close, a general prayer for.any suitable relief; and it seems plausible, that we
might, if satisfied of the existence of fraud, estop the party guilty
of it from profiting through his own wrong, by preventing him from
setting up, as a defence, the want of an acknowledgment in writing,
when such want was the result or the instrument of his own misbbhaviour. But there is still a difficulty in this view of the case,
from the circumstance that redress has been and still is open to the
plaintiff, at law, for any fraud ; and the Judiciary Act provides, that
"suits in equity shall not be sustained in either of the courts of
the United States in any case where plain, adequate, and complete
remedy may be had at law." (Act of September 29th, 1789,
§16 ; 1 Story, 59.) And. also from another reason, which has
affected the previous- points,- a want of satisfactory evidence of
the facts alleged. The first step in proving a fraud fails. Neither
a neglect nor wrong is shown by the, positive testimony of any one
witness'; and whateve, is sworn to by any one in behalf of the
complainant is counteracted by opposing circumstances, rather
than strengthened, as it should be, after a sworn denial in the bill,
and in so grave a charge as fraud, by very satisfactory auxiliaries,
though pot perhaps by'so strong evidence as is necessary in reforming contracts ; that is, by evidence which is "1irrefragable,"
and not open "to opposing presumptions." 1 Bro. Ch. 347; 2
Cranch, 419; 1 Ves. sen. 317 ; 6 Ves. 332 ; 8 Wheat. 211; 1
Peters, 13 ; 2 Johns. Oh. 595, 630.
It-is a matter of regret, that so great a loss, which the plaintiff
and those under whom he claims intended to guard against by insurance, should happen entirely without indemnity. But it is to
be remembered, that the defendants gave abundant and repeated
notice to him in writing and print in the policy itself, as well as
other ways, that they would not take any risks on property where
it was insured beyond a certain ratio of its full value, unless the
circumstances were made known to them, and the additional policy
recognized in writing, so as to avoid any mistake, or accident, or
want of deliberaie attention to the subject.
If the plaintiff, after all this, omitted to comply with so substantial a provision in the contract itself, as we are bound to believe
on the evidence now offered; we see no way, equitably or legally,
to prevent the consequences from falling on himself, rather than
others, being the result-either of his own neglect, or that of some
of the agents he employed.
An adherence to such important rules is peculiarly necessary for
the protection of absent stockholders, often interested extensively

JANUARY "TERM, 1846.

2i5

Agricultural Bank of Mississippi et al. v. Rice et al.

in insUrance companies ; and so far from its being unconscientious
to enforce them, when their existence is well known, and when the
risk has been increased without conforming to them, it is the only
and just safeguard of all coicerned in such 'instititnnr
Let the judgment below be affirmed.
Mr, Chief-Justice TANEY, being sick, did not sit in this
cause.

THE AGRICuLTURAL BANx OF MISSISSrPI AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR V. CHARLEs RICE AND MARY HIS WIFE, AND MARTHA
PHIPPS, DEFENDANTS.
A bond for the conveyance ofland does not transfer the legal title, so as to serve as
a defence in an action of ejectment, and such a bond, when signed by married
women, neither confers a legal nor equitable right upon the obligees.

In order to convey by grant, the party possessing the right'must be the grantor,
and use apt and proper words to convey to the grantee.
If, therefore, t&e title to land is in married women, and a deed for the land recites
the names of the husbands, as grantors, purporting to convey in right of their
wives, the deed is insufficient to convey the title of the wives.
Nor is such a deed made effective by its being signed and sealed by the wiv.es. The
interest of the husbands is conveyed by it, but nothing more.
A receipt ofmoney, subsequently, by the female grantors, does not pass the legal
title, nor give effect to a deed, which, as to them, was utterly void.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It was an ejectment brought by the defendants. in error against
the Agricultural Bank and others, to recover two undivided third
parts of a lot of ground in the city of Natchez, bounded as follows :frontin g on Main Street, between Canal and Wall Streets (formerly
Front and Second Streets), beginning on Main Street, at the comer
of a lot owned by the heirs of Samuel Postlethwaite, on which a
large new cotton-warehouse has been erected ; thence along the
northwestern side of lain Street, west, to the line of the lot bequeathed by Adam Bower, deceased, to his widow, now Mrs.
Pendleton ; thence north, along the eastern line of the said lastmentioned lot, to the back line of the said premises, where the same
bounds on the property formerly owned by Elijah Bell; thence
along said last-mentioned line, to the line of the lot belonging to the
heirs of said Postlethwaite; and along said last-mentioned line to
the place of beginning, on lain Street ; and being {be same property now known as the City Hotel, in Natchez.
The plaintiffs below claimed the lot as the heirs and devisees of
Adam Bower, deceased,-who died seized of the pr~perty, and the
only question in the case was, whether or not they had conveyed
away their title in the manner prescribed by law.
29
voL. Xv.

