80

SUPREME COURT.
GTatiot v. United States.

-grantee, is the party most deeply interested in the proceeding, for
if his grantee, oriany succeeding grantee under the title, should be
dispossessed by reason of a sale on a prior incumbrance by judgment, he, the defendant m the execution, would be answerable over
upon his covenants of title.
The grantee, therefore, is neither exposed to a sale under the
judgment by surprise, nor is he the party usually interested in the
sale. Upon the whole, without pursuing the examination farther,
We are satisfied, that, according to the settled principles of the common law, and which are founded upon the most cogent and satisfactory grounds, the execution having issued and bearing teste in this case
after the death of one of the defendants, the judgment was irregular
and void, and that the sale and tonveyance of the real estate of the
deceased under it to the plaintiff was a nullity
'We may further add, that since this suit was commenced, and
while it was pending in the Circuit Court of the United States, the
highest court m the State of Alabama have had the sane question
before them, and have arrived at a similar result (6 Alab. Rep.
657). Judgment of the Circuit Court 9ffirmed.

CH uL.s GuATioT, PLAImUTFF IN ERROR, V. Txn UMTED STATES.
The 67th article of the general regulations of the army, published in 1821, recognizes two disbursing officers upon fortifications; namely, the agent of fortificalions and the supenntendin& engineer. Where there is no agent, the supenno.
tending engineer can be requird to perform his duty for a compensation which is
:fixed by the army regulations. The receipt of a sum of money by the superntending engineer, and custody of itquntil it could be turned over to the agent, will
not justify a charge oftwo and one half per cent. commission. And in case of
such a charge, there is no foundation f9r a question of usage to be left to the jury.
In this particular case, the charges made by General Gratiot fir collecting money
(as stated in 4he sixth, seventh, and eighth items of his account), were already included in his charge for disbursing, contained in the second item, because when
disbursing these sums he was acting as agent for fortifications as well as superntending engineer, which duty the department had a right to reqmre him to perform at a fixed compensation, which had already been allowed. The court below were right in refusing to permit evidence in support ef hese charges to go to
the lury, because the only eviaence was the transcript, which was not sufficint
in law.
The charge of two and one half per cent.,.as contained in the second item of the account, was unautbonzed by law because it consisted either of-clargesofcommissian upon money which had come into his hands for stoppages, or for remittances
made to him as disbursing agent, as above -described.
The charge of a commission of two and one half per cent. for disbursements other
than those on Forts Monroe and Calhoun, as oontaned iu the third item of his
account, was a charge for disbursing in the character of supenrntending engineer,
acting also as agent forfortificauons, and is not allowed by law.
The charge for extra official services, as contaned in the fourteenth item of the account, is the seime which this court substantially rejected when thin case was formerly under consideration, reported in 15 Peters, except the charge fir superintendence relative to the northern boundary of Ohio. Excepting i the other
services were within the ordinary speal duties of chief engineer; and there being

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

81

Gratiot V. United States.
no proof of what these extra official services had been except the account itself,
the court below did not err in excluding it from the jury.
The charge for extra official services was against law, because the duties perfbrmed
necessarily belonged to the office of chieengineer, and if any services wereperfdrmed beyond the duties of that office, it was necessary that evidence should be
introduced to show what had been the chief engineer s personal as well as offitcial agency.
It was the province of the court below to decide, as matter of law, what were the
duties of the chief engineer, and to iudge whether any evidence had been introduced tending" to show that Gener Grauot had pertormed any services not ap.pertaining to his station as chief engineer.
The army regulations under which General Gratiot was removed from West Point
to Washington were authorized by law, and his brevet rank did not release hun
from discharging the dunes of his commission proper.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Missouri.
It was the same case which was before this court at January
term, 1841, which is reported in 15 Peters, 336. Being sent back
to the Circuit Court, it came up for trial, after sundry preliminary
proceedings which it is not important to state, on the 25th of April,
1843. On the trial, the United States produced and gave in evidence to the jury two transcripts from the books and proceedings
of the Treasury Department, which were the same as those produced
upon the former trial. The plaintiff also gave in evidence an original account, rendered by the defendant Gratiot to the plaintiff, signed by the defendant, showing a balance in his hands of $ 35,000
due on account of the appropriation for a fort at Grand Terre,
Louisiana.
The plaintiff's case being here closed, the defendant produced
is account against the United States, and proved, by a transcript
from the books and -proceedings of the Treasury iDepartment,.that
each and every item of his account had been duly presented to the
accounting officers of the Treasury Department for allowance
against the United States, and had been by the said officers disallowed, which -account was in the words and figures following, to

Wit.-

Report of ¢Auditor on General Gratiot's .account.
Report of the Third Auditor of the Treasury on the accounts and
claims of General Charles Gratiot, late chief engineer, transimtted to him by the Solicitor of the Treasury on the 25th of March,
1841, for the decision of the accounting officers thereon.
Nc 1. For the safe keeping of and responsibility for the followmg sums placed in the custody of Charles Gratiot, from the 27th of
Auust up to the 7th and 20th of September, 1821, the dates of
their being turned over to James Maurice, as shown gn the credit
side of the Treasury transcript admitted in eviderce in the 'Circuri
Court of Missouri, in the case of The Umted States v. Charles GrzVOL. IV

11

S2

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

riot, during the April term of 1840, this during a period of time
that he was not a disbursing agent, viz..
On account of Fort Calhoun,
.
.
$ 19,500"00
"
"
Fort Monroe,
.
.
26,550"00
Making the aggregate sum of

.

$ 46,050"00

Commission on $ 46,050, according to usage in like cases, at 21
per cent.,
$ 1,151"25
2. For disbursing, from the 20th of May, 1822, to the 30th of
September, 1829, both inclusive, $ 84,325-58, on account of the
appropriations for fortifications, other than those on Forts Monroe
and Calhoun, for which a separate and distinct accountability was
nposed by law, and, according to the decision of the Supreme Court
of the United States, as also that of the Secretary of War of the
26th of May, 1831, in the case of Tuttle, constituted a separate
agency Vide opinion of the Supreme Court of 1841, on the subject, and accounts of Tuttle, on file in the Third Auditor's office,
by which latter it is shown, that although he (Tuttle) received compensation for the construction or repairs of a fort, he was entitled
to, and did receive, an additional compensation for disbursing, at the
same time and place, the funds for other and distinct appropriations,
and that he also received, at the same time, a like compensation for
disbursing the finds of each separate appropriation for piers at New
Castle and Marcus Hook.
Commssion on $ 84,325"58, at 2j per dent., as allowed by general regulations of the army,
$ 2,108"14
3. For disbursing $ 30,531-60, on account of the appropriation
for the repairs and contingencies of fortifications, from the 1st of
November, 1823, to the 30th of September, 1829,'both days included, as shown by Treasury transcript referred to above, which
disbursements were other than those on Forts Monroe and Calhoun,
it having been the usage of the Department to make the like compensation for disbursements under the like circumstances.
Commissions on $ 30,531"60, at 4 per cent., being less than
$2 per day,
$763"29
4. For disbursing $ 591,039 00, on account of the appropriations for Fort Calhoun, from the 13th of November, 1821, to the
30th of September, 1829, both days included, 2,879 days, at $ 2
per day, being less than 21 percent., as allowed by general regulations of the army
Account before rendered,
$ 5,758"00
5. For disbursing $ 819,677"64, on account of the appropniations for Fort Monroe, from the 13th of November, 1821, to the
30th of September, 1829, both days included, 2,879 days, at $ 2
per day, as allowed by general regulations of the army.
Account before rendered,
$5,758"00

sa

JANUARY TER34, 1846.
.Gratiot v. United States.

6. For-collectiou of money made for the United States from
Jacob Lewis & Co., as per accompanying abstract, marked A,
which service did not, under the regulations, enter into or fbea
any part of the dutes of a " disbursing agent."
Comm ssions on the sums collected, viz. $ 24,335.81, at 2J per
cent., according to usage in similar cases,
$ 608-39
7. For ditto, ditto, from Samuel'Cooper, as per accompanying
abstract, marked' B.
Comansilons on the same collected, viz. $ 3,233.62, at 2J per
cent.,
$80"84
S. For ditto, ditto, for sales of public property, &c., as pe acoompmuYmg abstract, marked C.
Commissions on saw collected, viz. $ 16,150"81,.at 21 per
cent.,
.$403-77
9. For 480 barrels cement, account rendered and admitted ta
bi- credit in former settlement,
$ 1,404,0
10. Fqr quarters.furnished Laeuts. Dutten and Mordecai, on-ac,count of Forts Monroe and Calhoun.
Aecconnts heretofore rendered,
.$.
.
$40"00
11. For this amount paid to Robert Archer, for medical attendance onrpersons einployed at Forts Monroe and Calhoun.
Accounts before rendered,
.
$552-00
'12,For this amount expended on account of repairs and contingenties of fortifications, $ 345-59. Account before rendered and
pwsed to the credit of General Gratiot in former settlement.
IS. For the following sums withheld by the Treasury officers,
viz, Pay and emoluments from the 1st of April, 1836, to the 6th of
December, 1838, both days included;
$ 10,763-99
Allowance for fuel and quarters for same period,
905"80
Transportation of officers' baggage,
618"67
.

$12,284.46
14. For certain extra official services, as more fully set forth mn
the accompanying account marked D, viz. - for his extra official
services in conducting the affibrs connected with the civil works of
internal improvement carried on by the United States, and in conducting also the aftanrs connected with the execution of the act of
Congress of July 14, 1832, " to provide for the taking of certain
observations preparatary to the adjustment of the northern boundary-line of the State of Ohio," referred to the Engineer bureau for
execution by the executive of the United States, and other extra
official services connected wit the aforesaid items of charge, and
which did not constitute any part of his.duties.as a military officer,
but which properly appertained-to the duties and functions of civil
engineering, and were performed under an understood or implied

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

contract with the War Department, under the sanction and authority
of the President of the United States, to be compensated therefor,
over and above my official pay and emoluments, at a reasonable
rate of compensation, according to the established usage of the Department m analogous cases, from the 30th of July, 1828,1 to the
6th of December, 1838, both days included, 10 years and 130
daysi at $ 3,600 per annum, that being the pay granted to John S.
Sullivan, David Shriver, James ,Geddes, and Nathan S. Roberts,
Esqri-., civil engineers employed under the act of the 30th of April,
1824, entitled an act to procure the necessary surveys, plans, and
estimates upon the subject of roads and canals, and less than the
extra pay of Captain Andrew Talcott, of the Corps of Engineers,
while he was employed under the orders of the Engineer bureau, in executing the act of the 14th of July, 1832, above referred to
$.37,282.19
15. For certain extra official services, specified in the items of
charge contained in accompanying account marked E, none of
which services constituted any part or parcel of the duties or services appertaining to the office or functions of any engineer, civil or
military, nor of the proper business of civil or military engineering,
nor of any of the legal or prescribed duties or functions of my offace of chief engineer, or colonel of engineers, nor in any manner
included m my official compensation as chief engineer, colonel of
engmeers, or brigade-general by brevet in the army of the United
States, but all of which services were extra official in relation to
each and every of my said official capacities, and were performed
under an understood or implied contract with the War-Department,
under the sanction and authority of the President of the United
States, to be compensated therefor over and above my official pay
and emoluments at a reasonable rate of compensation, accordin to
the established usage of the Department in analogous cases. For
the specification of all wich services, I refer to the items in my
said account E, all of which I am prepared to show, and prove,
were in fact such extra official services, and entitled me, under
such understood or implied contract, to such reasonable compensation over and above my official pay ani emoluments, as aforesaid,
The United States to Charles Gratiot,
Dr.
Items.
No. 1. For his extra official servces at one of the desks or bureaux of the War Department, from the 30th of July, 1828, to the
6th of December, -1838, both days included, 10 years and 130
days,. in receiving, acting on, and causing to be filed for'safe keeping, in the archives of said desk or burpau, 23,408 letters and other papers (not accounts) , 10 yeafs 'and i0 days.
2. For his entire official services at one of the desks or bureaux
of the War Department, from the 30th of Tuy, 1828, to the 6th

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

as

Gratiot v. United States.

of December, 1838, both days =eluded, responding to the letters
or other conimunications adtressed to, or referred by, the Seeretary of War to said desk on business pertaining properly to the administrative brancirot the-War Department, which responses have
m the aggregate filled 10,003 pages of folio-post record, 10 yeara
and 130 days.
3. For ditto, ditto, ditto, during the same period of time as the
preceding, in examining and causing to be filed, and preservation
of, the returns of property received from the agents acting under the
orders of said desk or bureau, say about 100 agents in number on
an average, 10 years and 130 days.
4. For ditto, ditto,*ditto, during the same period as the preceding, in examining the eslimates for funds yearly, quarterly, and
monthly, from the disbursing agents in correspondence with said
desk or bureau, about 100 agents on an average, making requisitions on the Secretary of War, for the funds to be remitted to said
agents by the TrearDepartment; directing the mode of applying and accouning or the unds so remitted, keeping the account
with
the Treasury for such remttances, exanng the vouchers
rendered by the said disbursing agents in reference to price and plication of the articles and labor paid for, and finally transrmtting

the said
d o.°

f

to7ccounts
the Auditor for settlement, 10 years and 180
The amount -disbursed by std agents, and accounted

to the Treasury durng the time specified, was, For fortifications,
.
7,899 7i5t
" internal improvement,
.
.
10,or2s42542
light-houses and beacons,
.
.
.
91,842"
Military Academy, .
.
.
.
844,41t5
lihograpie
ters, A
.
.
.
2y057e
n
" N. W
executve bulding,
.
.
.
S,120x9
" northern boundary of
b • sao, •
.
25,6 46

6. For his extra official services at one of'the desks or bureau
of the War Department, from the 30th of July, 182,8, to the 61ti
of December, 1838, .both days included, itt making weekly reprt

to
the Secretary of War of the proceedings i said bureau r zFtion to each letter or other paper referred from him, or wrtit
by direction of the War Department, 10 years and 130 days, per
6. For ditto, ditto, ditto, in casing all letters and other' papers
prepared at sad desk or bureau to be ecorded n books procured
for that purpose. Term of service, from the 30th of July, 188,
to the 6th of December, 1833, both days included,
med
10 years
130 days.
VOL. IV.

H

86

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

7., For his extra official services at one of the desks or burmu
of the War Department, from 30th July, 1828, to 6th December,

18,38, both days included, in examination and approval, or return
to te agert or party to the contract ; for correction or alteration
of all eoutracts appertaining to works, to be executed under the
direction of the said desk or bureau, and their (the contract) subsequent transmission to the' Second Comptroller of the Treasury
for Ale,, 10 years and 130 days.

8. For his extra official services at one of the desks or bureaux
of the War Department, from 30th July, 1828, to 6th December,

1838, both days included, in examination of, and reporting upon,
all doubtful or disputed claims under contracts executed under the
supervision of said desk or bureau ; and in making special reports
on cases of claims referred to the War Department, by resolution
of either branch of national legislature, or in reply to calls from
compaittees, or individual memberaof Congress, governors of States

and Secretary of War, on application made to Secretary of War,
or directly to said desk or bureau, or in obedience to lgislative
enactment. Of these the following maybe cited in part, viz. :
(Then followed a specification; of twenty-two reports made on

rneus subjects.)
9. For his extra official services at one of.,the desks or bureaux
of the War Department, from the 30th July, 1828, to 6th December, 1838i both days includedj in causing; to beregistered, in appropriate books of.record procured for the- purpos the letters and all
other papers relating to the current business of said desk or bureau;
to accountability generally, and. to 'other matters, &c.- 10 years
and 130 days.
10. For his extra official services at oe *-of the desks or bureaux

of the War Department, from the 30th July, 1828, to fh Decemh, 1838, both days included, in miking quarter-yearly reports to
tFe proper accounting. officer of the Treasury of the agents connected-with said desk or bureau who had rendered their accounts, and of those who had failed to do so. - 10 years and 130
days.
1L1. For his extra dificial services at one of the desks or bureaux
of the War Department, from 30th July, 1828 to6th December,
1838, both days included,' in carrying on'the correspondence in
relation to the Military Academy, and forwarding to parents and
guardians of the cadets circulars, numbering monthly on an average
'338 -communications, inclusive of the correspondence of the desks
or bureaux before charged, item 2. - 10 years and 130 days.°
12. For his extra official services at oneof the desks or bureaux
of,the. War Department, from 25th November,, 1832, to 30th June,
1884, both days included, in causing to be executed, by executive
ordr, the provision of the act of 14th July, 1832, entitled, "An
Act to provide for the Taking of certain Observations preparatory

p

JANWARY TERM 1846.
Gratibt w. United States.

to the Adjustment of~the Northern Bouuitar of the Stat. of
Ohio." - 948 days; or 2 years and 218, days.
For all which extra official services, I charge in the
"aggregate

.

.

.

$

7,127-42

PETER HAGNER, Auditer.
Treasury Department,
Third Auditor's Office, April 5, 1841.
To ALBIoN K. PARRIS, Esq.,
Second Comptroller of the Treasury.
Treasury Department,
Second Comptroller's Office, 19 April, 1841.
I have examined the several claims of General Charles Gra~bt
against the United States, as particularly set forth and described ih
the foregoing report, together with all the evidence, and amdf opiion that the said claims are not admissible against the Treasury.
ALBION K. PARRIS, Comptroler.
The defendant, Gratiot, then gave in evidence suidry deposi.tions, which occupy nearly one hundred pages of the printed rec.
ord, and of which it is impossible to give any other thanla condeneed and summary 'account.
Benjamin Fowler, clerk in the Engineer's Department. ;He
testified that the services mentioned in the above account -were rendered by Gratiot ; that the office styled the Engineer Department
was always considered as a bureau of the Department of War, to
which were referred letters, memorials, petitions, and other papers,
to be replied to directly from the Engineer Department or reported
on to the Secretary of War for his action; that from July 30, 1828,
to December 6, 1838, the number of disbursing agents whose accounts passed through, and were examined in conformity to regulations in, said Department was two huiidred and five, whose disbursements involved the keeping of three hundred and seventy-nine
separate and distinct accounts.
J. G. Swift, who was an officer of the Corps of Engineers from
the year 1802 to 1818, and coloneland chief engineer from July,
1812, to November, 1818. He testified, that the usage of the
government had been-to compensate officers of engineers, over and
and above their pay 6nd emoluments, for services, mentioning his
own case and two others.
Major William Gibbs McNeill,, who was an officer in the army
of the United States from 1814 to'within the preceding four yeats,
during which last four years he was a civil engineer. He stated, that
whilst an officer of the army he received extra compehsation wheu
put on extraordinary duty or service ; that the -services charged in
Gratiot's acccount did not belong to the duties -of the engineer,
either civil or military.

88

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot 9. Unted States.

Captain Talcott, who held a commission in the United States
Corps of Engineers from August, 1818, to September, 1836, and in
that interval was advanced from the rank of second lieutenant to that
of cptamin sad corps. Afterwards he became a civil engineer.
He .stated that he had received from the United States extra illowances for extra services, specifying the cases, and that the services
charged for by Gratiot in his account did not appertain to either military or civil engineering.
Thomas L. Smith, Register of the Treasury, who furnished
certified copies of certain accounts in which officers had extra allowances.
Major J. D. Graham, a niaior of Topographical Engineers
since August, 1840, and Commissioner for the survey and exploraton of, the Northeastern Boundary of the United States, stating
the amount of his pay and emoluments.
Colonel Cross, assistant quartermaster-general in the army of
the United States, with the rank of colonel, also stating the amount
of payowhich he had received at sundry tnes.
Colonel Joseph Q. Totten, colonel of the Corps of Engineers
am4 chief engineer. His deposition contained, amongst other matters, the following interrogatory and answer, viz.. Interrogatory 2. Examine the records and other documents belonging to, and now on file or otherwise in, the Engineer Department, and state therefrom, as nearly as you can, what were the affairs
or business committed by executive authority, or otherwise, to the
said Engineer Department, to be ministered and administered 'by
Charles Gratuot, then the colonel of the Corps of Engineers, and
brigadier-general by brevet in the army of the United States, from
the 30th July, 1828, to the 6th December, 1838, inclusive.
Answer. It appears from the records of the Engineer Department, that the affairs or business committed to the general direction,
supervision, and management of the said Department, during the
period stated in the interrogatory, were the following, namely' I..Militar"y .Bngneerzng - Reconnmoitring and surveying for
military purposes, with the collection and preservation of topographical and geographical memoirs and drawings referring to those
objects ;, the selection of sites, the formation of plans and estimates, and the construction, repairs, and inspection of fortifications,
constituted affars and business committed to the general direction,
supervision, and management of. the said Engineer Department, and
there appears to have been disbursed for the fulfilment of those
objects, and to have been accounted for to the Treasury Department, through the said Engineer Department, during the period the
said Gratiot was chief enineer, about $ 7,537,675.
II. Civil Engnetrng - First, reconnoitring and surveying,
&c., under the provisions of the act of the 30th April, 1824, entitled, " An Act to procure the necessary Surveyd, Plans, and Esti-

JANUARY TE-AM,

1846.

Gratiot v. United States.

mates upon the subject of Roads and Canals)" constituted aftirs
and business committed to the same general direction, supervisio,
and management, for the fulfilment of these objects, there appears
to have been disbursed.and acc6unted for to the Treasury, through
the said Engineer Department, during and for the period stated
above, about $67,980.,
Second. The superintendence of the execution of the acts of
Congress in relation to internal improvements, by ioads, canals, the
navigation of rivers, and repairs and nprovements connected with
the harbours of the United States or the entrance into the same,
with the execution of which the 2War Department was charged,
and the inspection of the operations for the execution thereof constituted affairs and business committed to the same general director,
supervision, and management, and for the fulfilment of these objects
there appears to have been disbursed and accounted for to the Treasury, through the Engineer Departmqnt, during and. for the period
stated above, about $10,032,870.
Third. Oonstruguon of-light-houses and beacons constituted affairs and business committed in the same way, and for whi6h objects
there appears to have been expended and accounted for to the Treasury, through said Engineer Department, during the period stated m
the interrogatory, the sum of about $ 96,625.
III. JMilitary Academy. - During the period stated above, tile
then colonel of the Corps of Engineers was the inspector of -said
academy, and was charged, by executive order, with the correspondence relating to it. There appears to have been expended for the
support of that institution, and accouiited for to the Treasury, through
the Engineer Department, and for the same period, the sum of
about $323,263.
IV. Lithographwc Press of the War'Department.- This establishment was placed, during the period of its existence, under the
control of theEngineer Department; the sumwhich appears to have
been expended m its support, and accounted for to the Treasury
Department, through the Engineer Department, amounted to about
$2,057
•Northivest Executive Building. - Tb. execution of the work
"for fitting up the basement rooms of the execuuve building, occupied by the War Department," was also placed under the direction
of the Engineer Department. The amount expended and accounted for to the Treasury, through said department, appears to have
amounted to about $ 3,120.
VI. .Northern Boundary-of the State of Oh. - The operations
in fulfilment of the provisions of the act of the 14th of July, 1832,
entitled, "An Act to provide for the Talng of certain Observauons
preparatory to the Adjustment of the Northern *Boundary of the
State of Ohio," were under the general directibn of this department.
VOL. IV

12

H*

so

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot w. United Statel.

The amount expended in this service, and accounted fo? to the
Treasury, through the Engineer Department, appears to have been
about $ 35,474.
VII. Mnteraland .dmtrntrative Duties. - Receiving, acting
on, and causing to be filed m the archives of the Engineer Department, all the letters and other papers, not accounts, thereto referred
or recetved at said department. Responding to the letter.
other
communications addressed directly to it, or referred to it by the
Secretary of War, examining and causing to be filed all returns of
property transmitted by the subordinate agents, examining the esumates, yearly, quarterly, and monthly, transmitted by the disbursing
agents of the department, making requisitions on the Secretary of
War for the funds to be remitted in fulfilment of said estimates
wheft approved, directing the mode of applying and accounting for
such remittances , keeping an account with the Secretary for said
remittances, examining the vouchers rendered by said Treasury
disbursing agents for settlement through the Engineer Department,
and finally transmitting the said accounts to-the Auditor of the Treasury for settlement, constituted affairs and business committed to the
general direction, supervision, and management of the said Engineer
Department. These disbursements appear to have amounted, during
the period stated in the interrogatory, to about $ 18,089,067
Making for a portion of the time weekly reports to the Secretary of
War of the proceedings in said department, in relation to each
letter or paper referred .to or written by direction of the War Department, causing all letters and other papers prepared in said de.partment to be duly recorded, exalminig and approving, or return"ing for correction or arpendment, contracts for works or supplies
required for the prosecution of the operations carried on under the
superintendence of the said department, and transmitting said contracts ubsequently to the Second Comptroller for file, examining
and reporting upon doubtful or disputed claims on contracts executed
under the superintendence of said department, making, when required, special reports on cases of claims referred to the War Department by resolution of either branch of the natuoral legislature,
or in replies to calls from committees, or members of Congress,
or Secretary of War, or on applications made to the Secretary of
War, or directly to said department, causing to be recorded the
substance of the letters and other papers received at the Engineer
Department Which related to its current business, and making quarterly reports, tt the proper accounting officer of the Treasury, of
such disbursing agents of said department as had rendered their
accounts for settlement, and of those who had failed in that particular, constitutgdtaffalrs and business committed to the sanie general direction, supervision, and management.
This witness also stated, that in 1838 all the works of internal
improvement, with the exception of the Cumberland road, were

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

91

Gratiot 9. Unxted States.

transferred to the. Topographical bureau, and furnished a list of
sity-etght works which were thus transferred.
The defendant, Gratiot, also gave in evidence a printed document of Congress, being document number six of the House of
Representatives, of the third session of the Twenty-seventh Congress, which it was agreed niht be used in all courts in which
this cause might be pending, as if spread upon the record.
The defendant, Gratiot, further gave in evidence the depositions
of witnesses and documents, spread upon the record of the former
case.
James C. Wilson, a clerk in the Engineer Department. He
testified that Gratiot performed the services presented in the twelve
items of the account.
John C. Spencer, then Secretary of War, who testified that
the Engineer Department was a bureau of the War Department,
charged with such ministerial and adrmnistrative duties as might
be assigned to it by the Secretary of War. He also furnished
certified copies of the following papers, viz. 1. A Regulation dated 10th of August, 1818.
2. A Regulation dated 27th of July, 1821.
3. Letters from the War Department to Colonel lcRee and
to Major Thayer, allowing them to go to Europe, with extra pay
and rations.
4. The decision of President Monroe, allowing brevet pay to
General Macomb, the predecessor of General Gratiot.
5. An order of the War Department, fixing the Engineer Department at the seat of government.
6. An order from the War Department, dated April 7, 1818,
prescribing the duties of the Engmier Department, and also one
dated on the 1st of August, 1828, allowing double rations to. each
officer of the Corps of Engineers charged with the construction of
a fortification, or having a separate command.
Mr. Spencer also stated in his evidence, that he had directed the
records and files of the Department of War to be searched for any
evidence of any contract, express or implied, that General Gratiot
was to receive extra compensation for the services charged by him,
and that the proper officers reported that no such evidence was to
be found except what might be derived from th papers f'irished
above, which report he (Spencer) believed to be true. and adopted as his answer to the interrogatory
William B. Lewis, then Second-Auditor of the Treasury, who
furnished copies of Gratiot's accounts, with the accounts of other
officers of the Engineer Corps who had received extra allowances.
Albion K. Parris, then Second Comptroller of the Treasury,
who testified that the number of contracts, transmitted from the Engineer Department to the office of the Second Comptroller be-

92

SUJPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

tween July 30, 1828, and December 6, 1838, amounted to about
two Lhousand eight hundred and thirty
General Towson, paymaster-general of the army, who testified as to the time when Gratiot receivedf the pay of his brevet
rank-, and when it was stopped.
AsburyDickens, Secretary of the Senate, who furnished a copy
- of a report made by Gratiot to the Secretary of War, upon a claim
pending before the Senate.
Many of the witnesses above mentioned were cross-questioned
on the part of the United States.
The defendavit Gratiot, further gave m evidence the following
printed papers, which, it was agreed, might' be used as if spread
upon the record, viz.. 1. Congressional Document No. 78, of the 2d session, 23d
Congress.
2. Rieports No. 449, 455, 456, 1st session, 23d Congress.
3. Extracts from the Army Regulations revised conformably to
the Act of 24th April, 1816. War Office, September, 1816,
pages 96, 9"7, 98.
The defendant, Gratiot, having here closed his evidence, the
counsel on the part of the United States gave m evidence to the
jury,1. The deposition of John C. Calhoun, formerly Secretary of
War, who testified that he established what is known as the present
bureau system of the War Department, of which the Engineer
Department constituted a part, and that he had no recollection of
any intention or expectation, in establishing the bureau system, that
the chief of the Corps of Engineers should receive for his services,
as the officer m charge of that bureau, any compensation over
and above his pay and emoluments as an officer of the army
2. Colonel J. J. Abert, colonel of the Corps of Topographical
Engineers, who testifiedthat he had never received or claimed any
extra co'mpensation for official services at one of the desks or
bureaux of the War Department, while at the head of said bureau;
that he had received extra compensation, but was not, during the
time, in the direction of the bureau, that in his opinion, any duties
of an engineer character, assigned by the 'Regulations, or by direction of the War Department, to either corps of engineers, become
the proper and legitimate duties of that corps.
3. Thomas S. Jesup, major-general by brevet, and quartermaster-general of the army, who explained why the colonel of
engineers and other officers, stationed at the seat of government,
were allowed double rations, and testified that he considered the
services charged for in Gratiot's accounts as the legitimate alad
proper duties of the chief engineer.
4. John H. Eaton, formerly Secretary of War, who testified
that he was in office during a part of the time mentioned in Gra-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

08

Gratiot u. United States.

tiot's accounts, and that no contract or engagement was ever entered
into by him with General Gratiot as to the services to be performed by Gratiot.
The evidence being closed on both sides, the following agreement was filed.
Facts admitted by parties.- Ii Is admitted' by the parties, that
the account referred to in the depositions of Colonel J. J. Abert
and General Jesup is the same attached to the deposition of Benjamm Fowler.
The United States, by the district attorney, adrmtted that the
defendant should receive credit for the sum of $5,758, being the
fifth item of his account, to be deducted from the balance found due
from him to the United States on the Treasury transcripts given
in evidence, and also that the sum of $ 276, being one half of the
eleventh item in Jus account, should, in like manner, be credited
to him against the balance on said transcripts.
The defendant withdrew his claim for the fourth, ninth, tenth,
twelfth, and thirteenth, and one half of the eleventh items in Ins
account, the same having been allowed him in former settlements.
Whereupon the court instructed the jury, on the part of the
Umted States, as follows:Instructions given. - 1st. That the defendant is not entitled to
any conumssion on the sums by him turned over to James Maurice, charged by him on account of Fort Calhoun and Fort Monroe, and rejected by the accounting officers of the Treasury; (1.)
because defendant received four dollars each day for his attendance
upon the above works, by a former allowance, and by th6 one now
ordered, (2.) because the only evidence is what the transcript
introduced by the plaintiff furnishes, and such evidence is not
sufficient to authorize any commission to be allowed merely for
turning over to an accounting officer the moneys.
2d. Nor is the defendant entitled to any credit for commissions
or disbursements on account of appropriations for fortifications as
charged by him. Of this item, the only evidence in the cause is
that furnished by the transcript introduced by the United Stases,
as the principal evidence on which the defendant is charged, and
the evidence thereby furmshed,' is not sufficient to authorize the
jury to allow the defendant the credit claimed.
3d. Nor is the defendant entitled to commissions for disbursements on account of contingencies and repairs of fortifications as
charged by him, there being no evidence on this item of charge
except the above-named transcript, which evidence is not sufficient
to authorize the jury to allow any credit for this item.
4th. Nor is the defendant entitled to any credit for commissions,
as charged, upon any moneys collected of Jacob Lewis & Co.

94

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot w. United States.

and Samuel Cooper, or either of them ; because the above-named
transcript is the only evidence in the cause to establish this charge
against the Umted States, and such evidence is not sufficient.
5th. Nor is the defendant entitled to commissions as chared by
him on account of sales of public property, there being no evidence
but the foregoing transcript to establish the charge, which evidence
is not sufficient.
In the five cases above, there is uo evidence to warrant the credit
claimed m either case.
6th. The services of the defendant, while chief engineer, charged
with the duties of the Engineer Department, in conducting the affairs
connected with the civil wcorks of internal improvement carned on
by the United States, are not extra official services for which he is
entitled to credit in this. action.
7th. There is no evidence that the defendant performed any extra
official service in conducting the affairs connected with the execution
of the act of Congress of 14th July, 1832, to provide for the taking
of certain observations preparatory to the adjustment of the northern
boundary-line of the State of Ohio.
8th. The services alleged to have been performed by the defendant at one of the desks or bureaux of the War Department, the
claims-to which are specified in an account dated March 23, 1841,
and appended to Benjamin Fowler's deposition, taken March 16,
1842, if such services were performed at the bureau of the chief
engineer, and professedly in that capacity, they were among the
duties appertaining to the office, and such as the defendant was
bound to perform as chief engineer, without being entitled to any
extra compensation above his pay and emoluments as a brigadiergeneral in the army of the United States. And as to items numbered from one to twenty-two, in the same account, for examining
and reporting on various subjects, for which the defendant claims
extra official compensation, Ins evidence, and the evidence of the
United States, show them to have been examinations and reports
on matters appertaining to the office of chief engineer. So are the
reports on their face, so far as they have been given in evidence,
nor is there any evidence in any degree to the contrary
To sustain some of them, no evidence whatever is offered, neither for
making those in regard to which evidence has been offered, nor for
such in regard to which no evidence has been offered, can the defendant claim extra compensation.
Exceptionst-- To the giving of the eight instructions above set
forth, and to the giving of each of them, the defendant, by his
counsel, excepted.
The defendant, by his counsel, then prayed the court to instruct
the jury as follows 1. That under the first count of the declaration, the plaintiff is

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

96

Gratiot v. United State.

xdt entitled to recover against the defendant for any money received by hun in any office or capacity other than chief engineer.
Which instruction was given by the court.
Instructiow refuset.-2. That under the second count of the
declaration, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover against the def ndant for any money received by hun in any office or capacity
not mentioned in the bill of particulars of demands, furnished and
filed by the plaintiff under that count, nor for -any money which
may have been received by the defendant at any other time than
that,mentioned in said bill of particulars, that is, the year 1839.
This last instruction was refused by the court, because there
was no order made by the court on the plaintiff to furnish a bill of
particulars, -and on the memorandum furnished voluntarily to the
defendant's counsel the court did not act, and might not have
acted, if required to do so, under the circumstances, this, being a
matter of discretion.
3. That if the jury find, from the evidence, that the defendant
performed any of the services for which he has charged in the last
item of his account under the direction of the President or Secretary of War, and that such services were neither military nor civil
engineering, he is entitled to compensation for such services as a
set-off in this action. This last instruction was refused by the
court.
4. That if the jury find, from the evidence, that the defendant
performed any of the services in the item of his account appended
to Benjamin Fowler's deposition under the direction of the President or Secretary of War and that such services were not enjoined by the army regulations, the defendant is entitled, to compensation for such services as a set-off in this action.
This last instruction was refused by the court, and the refusal
reduced to writing in the following words " This instruction .s refused, and the eighth instruction, given
on the part of the United States, is referred to as embracing the
whole.subject-matter. The court is furthermore of opinion, that
the President or Secretary could well refer to the chief engineer
any matter for rep6rt, &c., which appertained to the particular servwe. devolvingon the Engineer Department, in cases where Congress, or either House, by law or resolution, required information
from the President on that particular subjedt, aside from any injunction by the army regulations, and therefor -lheinstruction cannot be given in the terms it is-sked."
1
5. That if the jury find, from the evidence -bat the defendant,
by the direction of the President or of the' Secretary of War, pbrformed any of the services charged for in 'the last item of his-account, being the said item attached to Fowler's deposition, and
that the services so rendered were out of the liiiits of his official

96

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United Stat..

duties as chief engineer, he is entitled to compensatmon for such
extra services, as a set-off in this action.
This last instrucuon was refused by the court, and the refusal
was reduced to writing, in the following words "The court refuses this instruction, because the whole evidence
m the cause, without any exception, is written evidence, which the
court is called on to construe and apply, and not the jury, and
from such evidence to ascertam.as matter of law, what were the
defendant's duties and acts, and taking all the evidence, and construing it the most favorably for the defendant, none is adduced
showing, or tending to show, the defendant performed any service
not appertaining to Ins station as chief engineer, and for the proper
instruction on the item referred to,isthe
eighth the
instruction
jury on part
to govern
of the United- States, on this item,
"If for no other reason, this instruction would be refused, because the said eighth instruction concludes the whole matter,
There is no fact, therefore, to which this instruction could apply,
and it again refers the matters of law to the jury,-what the cief
engineer's official duties were,-assuming to withdraw their decision from the court, and out of the previous instruction."
To all which decisions and opinions of the court n giving the
instructions on t ie part of the United States, and in refusing the
instructions which were prayed for by the defendant, and by the
court refused, the defendant, by his counsel, excepts, and prays
the court to sign and seal this his bill of exceptions, and that the
same be made part of the record, which is done.
J. CATRON. [.5.]
To review these instructions and refusals, tins writ of error was
sued out.
The cause wa4 argued by JMr Jones and .Mr Coze, for the
paIntiff n error, and by ,Mr .Mason,Attorney-General, for the
nited States. There was presented also, by General (ratiot, a
brief containing detailed references to such of the laws, military
regulations, usages of the War Department, &c., as tended to
illustrate the two following general heads, viz.
1. The history, progressive organization, and proper functiom,
military and civil, of the engineer corps, and of the chief or colonel
of engineers.
2. The effect of the brevet of brigadier-general, when ithappens
to be conferred on the colonel of engineers, and whenever any of
the contingencies happen upon which he takes place according to
hIs brevet commission.
These illustrations were intended to explain the following propositions

-

1. That when General Gratiot was detached from Ins original
station of cief or colonel of engineers at West Point, to take

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

97

Gratiot v. United States.

actual rank and command according to his brevet commission, with
the pay and emoluments of a brigadier-general m the army of the
United States, he was completely detached from the line of the
engineers, and took a distinct station, rank, and command m the
line of the army, indeed, that he could, by no possibility, according to existing laws and regulations, have assumed such station,
rank, and command, and been allowed such pay and emoluments,
as brigadier-general, without relinquishing, for the time being, his
station and command in the line of the engineers, and all the peculiar functions and duties of engineer, us short, that he was as completely detached from the engineer line as if he had been ordered
(and he nght just as regularly have been ordered) to take command in the field of a brigade composed of different detachments.
2. 'That the pay and emoluments received by him, whilst in
such command, as brigadier-general, were exclusively appropriated
by law lo Ins services m that rank alone, and had no more connecuon with or reference to any duties or services of engineering,
than the like pay and emoluments received by any- other officer of
the like rank in the line of the army
3. That, even if General Gratiot, mnhis then actual rnk of
brigadier-general, had been liable to be officially called c to perform engineer dutes or services, still the particular services performed by him, and for which he claimed distinct compensation,
as for extra official services, did not, us fact, appertain to the line,
business, or science of engineering, msany of its branches.
4. That, even if those services had been (and, in fact, -they.were
not) within the sphere of any branch of civil engineering, in wnch
any act of Congress had authorized the employment of the Engineer
Corps, still there was no provision us the law to prohibit extra compensation (over and above the stated and official pay and emoluments) to the officers of the engineer corps so employed, and
their tide (as by an implied contract) to such compensation has
been acknowledged and established by a numerous trait of precedents and long usage.
5. But it is thought quite clear, that whilst stationed at the seat
of government, in the actual rank and command of bngadier-general, according to his brevet commission, he was not. liable to be
called on, ex officto, for the performance of any of the peculiar duties or services of an engineer, whether military or. ovil.
Mr Jones, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the mstructions given by the court below were erroneous, because they undertook to judge of a fact which was proper for the, jury The
circumstance that the evidence was reduced to writing made no
difference, and did not authorize the transfer of the question from
the jury to the court. All evidence taken under a commission is
written, and yet goes, of course, to the jury Usage is a fact,
VoL. IV
.13
1

98

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United State,

and the determination of it cannot be withdrawn from that tribunal
•which is the exclusive judge pf facts.
The claim of General Gratiot was for services rendered beyond
the line of his official duty It is no new principle on his pa .t
If his. time and labor have been tasked beyond his office, be is entitled to compensation. This question has been frequently examreed by this court, which has decided that there is no neessity for
an express contract to establish su-h a claim. An implied contract is suffibient. The set-off is eoimed under the act of 1794.
.(1 Lit. & Brown's ed. 366.) The clai need not b a legal one, if it
is an equitable one, it is sufficient. The cases which illustrate this
are United States v. Macdamel, 7 Peters, I, United' States r.
Ripley, 7 Peters, 18, United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Peters, '28.
The last mentioned ease was analogous to this m some respects.
Fillebrown was a clerk, with a fixed salary, and was moreover
aimployed by-a board to take charge of their books, at an additional
salary of $250 per-annum. A part of his set-off was for services
prior to his appontmenE by the board, and this raised the question
whether an implied contract was sufficient. Tins case of 1Fillebrown is understood to establish the five following propositions,
VIZ. 1. That an equiiable clairp for an unascertamed balance, to be
fixed by the jury, was adnitted.
2. That it was competent to show, by parol evidence, what were
the extra services beyond the line of official duty, and that the
whole question, whether or not such services were extra, was a
fact for the jury, to be established by parol evidence.
3. That'parol evidence was admissible to show the measure of
compensation for extra services m all officers of the government.
4. That the board had authority to employ a person who rendered the services charged for, and that the law will imply a
promiise to pay for them.
5. That the Secretary of the Navy could not disallow and annul
the ngh- to compensation.
(.Xr Jones then explained the account of General Gratiol, as
set forth in the preceding statement.)
The situation of General Graot may be considered m three
points of view.
1. As military engineer, being lieutenant-colonel from 1821.
2. As cinef engmeer, being full colonel.
3. As a brigadier-general in the army of the Umted States.
'When he was detached from the proper head-quarters of the corps,
at West Point, he took rank as brigadier-general m the line of te
army
1. As military engineer.
The laws of May 9, 1794 (1 Lit & Brown's ed. 366), July 16,
1798 (1 ibid. 604), March 3, 1799 (1 ibid. 749), March 16, 1802

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

99

Gratiet v. United States.

(2 ibid. 132), show that the Corps of Engineers was entirely a military corps, and bound to do no other species of duty
The 63d article of the Rules and Articles of War, established
bythe act of April 10, 1806 (2L. & B.'s ed.359),is as follows " ART. 63. The funtions of the engineers being generally confined to the most elevated branch of military science, they are not
to assume nor are they subject to be ordered on any duty beyond
the line of their immediate profession, except by the special order
of the President of the United States, but they are to receive
every mark of respect to which their rank in the army may entitle
them respectively "
And-this article is quoted m the general regulations for the army
issued in 1816. 1821, and 1825.
In the regulations of 1825, there is ihe following paragraph
Par. 888. "The duties of the Engineer Department comprise reconnoitring and surveying for military purposes and for internal improvements, together with the collection and preservation of topographical and geographical memoirs and drawings referring to those
objects, the selection of sites, the formation of plans and estimates,
the construction, repair, and inspection of, fortifications, and the
disbursement of the sums appropriatedfor the fufilment of those
objects, severally, comprising those of the .Military lcademy., also, the superitendence of the execution of the acts of Congress in
relationto internal improvements, by roads, canals, the navzgation
of rivers, and the repairs and improvements connected with the harbours of the United States, or the entrance into the same, which may
be authorized by acts of Congress, with the execution of which the
War Department may be charged."
What right had the Secretary of War to change the destination
of the corps, and divert it from the duties which the law had prescribed as legitimate ;
But, at all events , this regulation does not require their attention
to be bestowed upon any other works than those "with which the
War Department may be charged." (,Mr Jones here referred to
such acts of Congress as charged the execution of certain specific
works upon the War Department.)
2. As chief engineer, being full colonel.
By the provisions of other enactments, but particularly in those
of the last branch of the 27th sction of the act of 1802, last of the
63d article of war, and the general regulations of the President under them, the officer of the Corps of Engineers is subject to be ordered upon other duties, which, although not lodged in his office or
line profession, are nevertheless, like those named above, governed
by the rules and articles of war. They are staff services generally,
and which by law are designated, when performed by a detached
officer, as extra official, and always compensated in addition to line
pay and emoluments.

100

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

Mr.Jones then referred to several acts of Congress, to show that
where officers were detached for staff duty, they were paid m addition. But the fact that General Gratiot performed staff duties is
admitted by the United States m the account.
3. As a brigadier-general in the army
"1The chief of the Corps of Engineers shall be stationed at the seat
of government, and shall direct and regulate the dunes of the Corps of
Engineers, and those also of such of the Topographical Engineers as
may be attached to the Engineer Department, and shall also be the
inspector of the Military Academy, and be charged with its correspondence." -General Regulations of 1821, p. 165, par. 1 , or
of 1825, p. 167, par. 887
It is clear that this order or executive regulation detaches the colonel of the Corps of Engineers from the permanent head-quartersof
Ats corps, and places hun in position to command " detachments
composed of' different corps," viz. 1. Corps of Engineers at head-quarters.
2. Officers of the Corps of Engineers on detached service.
3. Topographical Engineers attached to the Engineer Department.
4. Cadets of artillery, cavalry, riflemen, or infantry, attached to
the Military Academy by the 3d section of the act of April 29,
1812, "making further provision for the Corps of Engineers" (3
Story, 1241, ch. 72),-and
5. Post of West Point.
Mr Jones then went on to show that by the 61st article of the
General Regulations of 1816, and the actg of 1812 and 1818, General Gratiot was entitled to the pay and emoluments of a brigadiergeneral in the army, as claimed in his account.
Mr Mason (Attorney-General), for the United States.
The history of the case is this.
On the 2d of March, 1819, the plaintiff in error, then an officer
of engineers in the aripy of the Umted States, was ordered to Old
.Point Comfort to take charge of the works there building at the two
fortifications, Fortress Monroe and Fort Calhoun.
On the 8th of November, 1821, the disbursing agent then at the
post was removed, and the plaintiff was directed to take upon himself' the disbursements of the public money, agreeably to the regulations for the government of.the Engineer Department, winch he did.
On the" 1st of August, 1828, he became chief engineer, and removed to Washington, but continued in charge till the 30th of September, 1829. In his final account there rendered, the entire
amount of his 6laims which were disallowed was, for a second per
diem and other items, $ 8,958.91.
On the 26th of March, 1833, the plaintiff presented a new account "as agent for fortifications at Forts Monroe and Calhoun."

JANUARY

101

TERM, 1846.

Gratiot v. United States.

In this he charged a commission of one per cent. from November,
1821, to September, 1829.
On the 30th of June, 1834, Congress made an appropriation for
a "cfort at Grand Terre.!' The whole amount appropriated was
drawn from the treasury by General "Gratiot, as chief engineer, m
November and December, 1835. On the 6th of October, 1836, he
repaid into the treasury $ 15,000 thereof, and retained $ 35,000, m
addition to a balance of $ 8,958"91 charged against hun for disbursements at Old Point Comfort, previously to the 30th of September,
1829.
On the 1st of April, 1836, the pay and allowances of General
Gratiot were stopped, and the amount directed to be appropriated
to the extinguishment of ns debt.
On the 15th of December, 1838, his accounts were again adjusted, and credits allowed lm which reduced the balance against him
to $ 29,292"13.
As an offset to this balance, General Gratiot, on the 11th of Jannary, 1839, presented a new account at the treasury, mnwhich he
renewed his claim for a double per diem, and added a claim for a
commission of 2J per cent. on disbursements made by him of " contingencies for fortificatons." And also a claim of 37,262"44 as
compensaton for extra services m conducting works of civil engineering, from his appointment m 1828 to his dismissal in 1838.
In February, 1839, a suit was brought against him by the United
States, m the Circuit Court of Missouri. It was tried in April,
1840, and judgment rendered m favor of the United States for
31,056-33.
On a writ of error, this court, at January term, 1841, received
that decision, and, deciding several important principles m regard to
the items of the set-off, reversed the judgment, on the ground that
the defendant's evidence was excluded.
At April term of the Circuit Court of Mississippi, the cause was
again tried, and the district attorney admitted the credits which are
specified in the statements, and the defendant exhibited a new claim
of set-off. The several items are enumerated from I to 15. Numbers 4, 9, 10, 12, and 13 were admitted or withdrawn, and the
others were rosisted. Numbers 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, and 8 arise out of
transactions anterior to the plaintiff's becoming chief engineer.
No. 14 is substantially the same. charge for extra official service which was passed on by this court, 15 Peters, as No. 3, p.
376.
No. 15 is a new demand, claiming $ 37,127-42 for extra official
services in the daily and current business of the chief engineer in
his intercourse with .the War Department, and asserts the principle, that the regulation of 1821, requiring the chief engineer to perform his functions at Washington, detached him from his regular
duty, and made all his office business extraordinary service, for
I*

102

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot r. United States.

which he demands extra compensation. The details of this item
are very minute, and the principle on which the charge is ascertained does not appear ; if allowed, it would have more than liquidated the balance in favor of the government.
In the opinion of the court in the case in 15 Peters, 373, it was
deemed right, for the purpose of bringing this protracted controversy within narrower limits, upon the new trial in the Circuit Court,
to state some of, the views entertained by the court upon points
which had been argued as fully as if the evidence had been admitted.
And it was held, that by the regulations the plaintiff in error
was not entitled to a commission on disbursements, but the per
diem was in ful! of all extra compensation.
fortiThat as to a charge for disbursements of contingencies of
evidence,
by
it
show
to
liberty
at
was
fications, he
in
That as to his charge of $ 37,262"46 fcr extra services
improvement
internal
of
works
civil
the
of
affairs
conducting the
of the government, upon its face, this item has no foundation in
law, and therefore that the evidence which was offered in support
of it, if admitted, would not have maintained it, and the ground of
this opinion was, that the services alleged to be performed were the
or.dinary special duties appertaining to the office of chief engineer,
on a review of the laws and regulations, &c.
On the new trial, it appeared that; instead of contracting, the subjpcts of inquiry were enlarged.
But it is submitted, that the principles involved are few and simple, and have been decided by this court.
The court on the trial gave the eighth instruction .asked by the
counsel of the United States, and overruled the third, fourth, and
fifth instructions moved by the counsel of the plaintiff in error. And
this opinion of the court involves the important inquiry-on which
the case turns.
The court instructed .the jury, that there was no sufficient evijustify them in giving the defendant the credits claimed.
dence
The tQinquiry
was, what were the lawful duties of an officer
holding his commission and receiving a salary for his services from
States. Was this a question for the court or the
?
the United
Jur
ft is submitted, that it was peculiarly a question for the decision
of the court. It cannot be determined what was extra official,
without previously determining what is the official duty. And this
is necessarily a question of law.
It is in the nature of a quo tcarranto, in which the question of the
sufficiency of legal authority is always decided by the court.
In the case of Kendall v. Stokes, 3 How. 87, it was held that a
motion to charge on the proofs was equivalent to a demurrer to the
evidence, and such is the practice in Missouri.
In-Toland v. spr~gue, 12 Peters, 300, it was held that where

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

103

Gratiot v. United States.

the evidence was in writing it was not error for the court to chbrge
the jury as to its effect. And the court clearly recognized the same
prmciple in the case of Gratiot v. United States, 15 Peters, 376.
he learned judge who delivered the opinion of the court says, "The court are of opinion that upon its face this item has no just
foundation in law, and therefore that the evidence which was offered in support of it, if admitted, would not have maintaned it. The
ground of this opinion is, that upon a review of the laws and regulations of the government applicable to the subject, it is apparent that
the services therein alleged to be performed were the ordinary
special duties appertaining to the office of chief engineer, and such
as the defendant was bound to perform as chief engineer, without
any extra compensation over and above his salary and emoluments
as a brigadier-general of the army of the United States, on aecount
of such services. In this view of the matter, the Circuit Court acted correctly in rejecting the evidence applicable to tis item."
Thus having the sanction of this court, the Circuit Court was authorized, on the second trial, in charging the jury that the written
evidence adduced was not sufficient to maintain the items of his account of offset.
Since the former hearing of this cause here, the case of Ellason and the United States has been heard and decided. It is
reported m 16 Peters, 291 - 302, and the court there held, that
by the regulation of March 13, 1835, no extra compensation
could be allowed to an officer of the army from the 3d of March
of that year. Credit was disallowed to Captain Eliason under
circumstances similar to those of the plaintiff m error, and his
must share the same fate. Assuming, then, as I have endeavoured
to prove, that the Circuit Court did not err in instructing the jury
on the sufficiency of the evidence, did the court err as to its
opinion of its legal effectP
1. As to the first item, - of two and a half per cent. commissions,
for safe keeping of and responsibility for $ 19,500, from the 27th
of August to 7th of September, 1821, and for $26,500, from
27th of August to 20th of September. There is no proof touching
this item, except the Treasury transcript. Colonel Gratiot was the
commanding officer in charge of the works at Old Point Comfort.
Major Maurice was the contractor. These funds were remitted
to Colonel Gratiot, and by him paid over to the contractor.
There i's no law, and there is no proof of usage, to sustain the
charge. If he had been subjedted to the trouble of disbursing it,
as agent, he was entitled to no commission.
2. For disbursing contingents, from 20th of May, 1822, to 30th
of September, 1829, &c., there is no additional proof, and he has
been allowed a credit of four dollars per diem, which is exclusive
of all extra compemation for disbursement.
3. Same answer.

SUPREME COURT.

104

Gratiot v..United States.

6. For collections of money made of Jacob Lewis & Co., &c.
7.

c

"

"

"

Samuel Cooper.

These were moneys of the United States, paid to the disbursing agent, and carried into his accounts for disbursement. He was
no more entitled to commission on these receipts, than on remittances to him from the treasury. Old printed record, p. 14.
8. Major Whiting, under orders, sold public property and paid
-proceeds to the disbursing agent, who carried them into account
to his debit. The same reason applies.
These claims have been presented for the first time since this
court decided that the plaintiff in error was not entitled to commission on disbursements, with the exception of a part of that for
commissions on contingencies. On the former trial, that charge
was $ 836, now it is $ 2,871"43.
14. This item is substantially the third item on which this
court, at the former hearing, passed so emphatic an opinion. In
amount it is somewhat larger ; but whatever change has been made
in the words, the principle is the same.
For services in conducting the affairs connected with the civil
works of internal improvement, and in conducting the affairs connected with the execution of the act of Congress of 1824, for
taking observations, &c., he claims compensation over and above
the pay and emoluments of a brigadier-general, at the rate of
$3,600 per annum.
The legal duties of the Engineer Corps were so fully discussed,
on the former hearing, that I am unwilling to occupy the time of
the court in recapitulating them.
By no act of Congress have these duties been defined. In
the act of 1794, 1 L. & B.'s ed. 366, no specific duties are assigned, but places it generally under the orders of the President.
By the act of 1802, it was reorganized, 11 to do such service as the
President shall direct." This general power has never 'been
superseded. Every successive act of Congress and of the executive, and, I may add, the silence of the plaintiff, in error for a
long period that he was in office, show that there was never any
just foundation for any such implied contract as must exist to sustain the charge.
The colonel of engineers was bound to perform any military or
other duty, not incompatible with the character of an officer and
gentleman, that the service may require, and the President direct.
The re-gulations of 1821 and of 1825 (see 15 Peters, 373, 374).
require the chief of the Corps of Engineers to be stationed at
Washington, and charges him with the superintendence of the Corps
of Engineers, to which the Topographical Engineers is attached,
and makes his duties comprise reconnoitring and surveying, for
military purposes and for internal improvement, with formation of
plans and estimates in detail for fortifications, &c. ; also the su-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

105

Gratiot v. United States.

permtendence of the'execution of acts of Congress -in relation to
internal nprovements, by roads, canals, the navigao6i of rivers,
and the repairs and improvements connected with the. harbours of
the United States, with which the War Department "may be
charged by Congress, And m the case of Eliason v. The Umted
States, 16 Peters, 302, the court hold this language -"
The $ecretary of War is the regular constitutional organ for the admiistration of the military establishment of the nation, and rules and
orders publicly promulged through him must be received as the
acts of the executive, and as guch be binding on all within the
sphere of his legal and constitutional authority " " Such regulations cannot be questioned or defied, because they may be thought
unwise or mistaken." To maintain his offset, the plaintiff must
establish a contract, express or implied, and the daily established
current business of his office, performed without any claim for extra compensation by his predecessor, himself, and his successor,
for more than twenty years, it is now argued, was extra official,
and that the law implies a contract to pay an extra compensation.
The plaintiff has taken many depositions. They certainly establish no.usage in the Engineer Department, nor in ally of the bureaux, as they are called, established in the War Department for
a more regular and systematic despatch of business. The President had the authority to require the services of the chief engineer
at any place, and the regulation of 1821 stationed him at Washington. The nature of his duties of superintendence, and of preparing plans and estimates, in subordination to the Secretary of
War, necessarily devolved en him those duties, for-which, in his
fifteenth item, he has now, for the first tine, asserted a claim to the
amount of $ 37,127"42. The items will speak for themselves.
On what principle the charge is made, I am.unable to comprehend.
The position is taken, that when he entered on the duties of the
Engineer Department, at Washington, he received the pay of bngadier-general, he ceased to act as colonel of engineers, and was
acting only as a brigadier-general of the army of the Uited States.
He held the brevet rank of brigadier-general. Mr. Monroe had
allowed to General Macomb, while performing the duties of chief
engineer, the pay and emoluments of his brigadier's commission.
The reasons for that order are not very favorable to the position
now taken. See record.
The brevet pay was allowed because he was performing the duties of the colonel of engineers, whenever he ceased to perform
those duties, his brevet pay ceased with it. In reference to the
instances of extra pay allowed, without examining them in detail, I
will remark, 1. That the President had a discretion, by the act of
, to
increase rations.
2. That neither the regulation of 1835, nor the law of 1835
VOL. Iv
14

106

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot

. United States.

or- of 1-838, forbid extra allowances, where an appropriation was
made by Congress for the object. See the opinion of Mr.
Grundy, in 1839.
3. That for duties taking the officrr from his regular place of
duty, subjecting him to increased expense, allowances have been
made, by express assurance at the time. See Regulations of 18-18,
p. 67, RecordThai- abuses have existed is well known ; they form no basis
on which the court will imply an undertaking to pay an extra compensation. These abuses produced the proviso of 1835, the act
of 1838, and the stringent and conclusive act of 1842. None of
the cases which have been decided by this court conflict with.the
positions I have taken. In McDaniel and the United States, and
m Fillebrown and the United States, there were express agreements made by the Secretary of the Navy to pay for services
out of the range of their regular official duties. In Ripley v. United
States, the services must be without the range of official duties.
And I may, with some confidence, insist, that the court will not
be inclined to relieve the plaintiff in error from the burden which
the law throws. on him. His claim cannot be regarded with favor.
Congress appropriated money for an important national work. It
went into his hands as a public officer, charged with its application
to that object. He diverted it to his own uses, on a claim which
was disallowed at the treasury. Indulgence to such a course of
conduct may defeat military or naval operations of the utmost importance to the country.
•Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, in reply and conclusion.
The case ought to be considered as if an action had been
brought by.General Gratiot for a settlement of accounts. The
history of the case given by the Attorney-General might be correct, but it was not in the record, and he had forgotten to state a
fact in it, which was, that when General Gratiot was dismissed,
there was no ascertained balance against him., His account had
been for five years before the proper accounting officers of the
government, and was then unsettled. He asked that a balance
might be struck, but was refused. It seemed as if in his case the
old practice had been renewed, namely, castigat audit que. Gratiot was required to pay a large sum by a certain day, and, not doing so, the harsh measure of dismissal was resorted to. Already
$ 20,000 of the claim against him has been extinguished, and we
hope that more will be by the event of this suit. The AttorneyGeneral has represented the danger of large sums being drawn
from the treasury, but we *sk for the establishment of no new
principle. All that we claim is the impartial application of the
same rule which has been extended to others. And if the apprebanded danger did exist, is this the tribunal which ought to inter-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

107

Gratiot v. United States.

pose to prevent it? The answer has been already furnished by
the Attorney-General, when he said that the legislature, by interfering, had put a stop to the supposed evil. This must therefore
be the last case. The treasury doors are closed by legislative
action, not by judicial decision. The Attorney-General has asked,
if all the officers who have been brought to Washington by former
secretaries are to have extra pay Whatever may be the consequence, it was not our doing, and we are not responsible. In
some of the departments, when boards of commissioners were
established, post-captains m the navy were placed there, and received salaries for their administrative functions. They could not
be placed on courts-martial, which shows that they were detached
from the performance of their regular duties in the service, and
yet they have never been obliged to ask for their pay Since the
time when General Gratiot was dismissed, and even now, there
are four post-captains at the head of bureaux, entirely detached
from military duty They receive the salaries fixed by law. If
this course had been taken formerly, when other officers were
p laced at the head of bureaux, there would have been no difficulty
If, therefore, the consequences apprehended by the AttorneyGeneral should follow, it will be the government that will cause
them and they cannot be attributed to us. So also, the commander-m-chief of the army has been appointed a commissioner to
negotiate with the Indians, and paid with extra compensation.
So, also, the quartermaster-general (Jesup) has been sent to
Florida in command of an army
These arguments, therefore,
ought not to have any effect. This case, like all other cases, is
simply a question of legal right.
The Attorney-General has said that the instruction of the court
below amounts only to a demurrer to evidence. I am willing to
regard it so, as if a motion for nonsuit had been made. But if
General Gratiot had been the plaintiff, it was not a proper case
for a motion for a nonsuit or a demurrer to evidence because
evidence had been given on both sides. Gratiot's witnesses were
all cross-examined by the Umted States, and the whole evidence
was offered which had been thus taken. This is a mere question
of law. The amount is of no consequence. " No nation was
ever impoverished by liberally rewarding services." If General
Gratiot's services were really important, and beyond the line of is
official duty, it as no matter what the amount involved may be.
General Gratiot was lieutenant-colonel of engineers when the
colonel was promoted, and entitled to a brevet for meritorious services. He received it, bearing a character without exception,
and even now there is no imputation on his personal honor and integrity He was advised that he had rights, and asked no more
than the Department had been in the habit of allowing. He presented claims for services beyond his official duty Were they

108

SUPREME

COuIIT.

Gratiot.,V. United Staeu.

so ? That is the question which -this court has to decide. They
were for keeping severd hundred accounts,,.paying money, and
other things of an administrative nature. When this case-was before the court in 1841, the following language was held, .which is
found in 15 Peters, 371. "It is true that the act of the 16th
of March, 1802," &c., &c. "But however'broad this enactment
is in its language, it never has been supposed to authorize the
President to employ the Corps of Engineers ipon any other duty,except such as belongs either to military engineering or to civil
engineering. It is apparent, also, from the whole history of. the
legislation of Congress upon this subject, that, fqr many years
after the enactment, works of internal-improvement and mere civil
engineering were not, ordinarily, devolved upon the Corps of Engineers. But, assuming the President po'ssessed the fullest power, under this enactment, -from time to time to employ any officers of the corps in the business of civii engineering, still it must
be obvious, that as their pay and emoluments were, or would be,
regulated with reference to their ordinary military and other duties,
the power of the President to detach them upon other civil services would not preclude him from contracting to allow such detached officers a proper compensation for any extra services. Such
a contract may not only be established by proof of some positive
regulation, but may also be inferred from the known practice and
usage of the War Department in similar cases, acting in obedience
to the presumed orders of the President," &c., &c., &c.
The Attorney-General has said that we must either admit or
deny the authority of the " Regulations," and that we are on the
horns of a dilemma. But not so. If the President had the
power to detach officers for other services than those within the
strict line of their duty, it has nothing to do with his power to
contract with them for extra compensation for these services.
The court said so in the former case, an& added, that they had no
right to say whether the implied contract was established by
evidence or not. Why ? Because it was not a question of law,
but a question of fact, for the jury. It is true that, at page 376,
the court say that one of the charges " has no just foundation in
law.; and therefore, that the evidence which was offered in support of it, if admitted, would not have maintained it." But,this
is merely an obiter dictum, not a point decidedf--and it is not easy
to see how the two passages can be reconciled with each other.
It would seem as if the court thought that civil engineering was a
part of the regular duty of the corps. This is an open question.
The Attorney-General thinks that we require a reversal of the
former opinion of the court. But not so. We only wish that the
same rule should be extended to us which has been extended to
others. The case of The United States v. Freeman, 3 How.
556, has been referred to as expressing the opinion which we

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

109

Gratiot v. United States.

wish to reverse. But in that case, double rations were allowed
under Regulation 1125, at the discretion of the President, and
this was said to be done by him by authority of law, and this
is just the proposition for which we now contend. It was said bn
the other side, that the authority of the President does not rest
upon acts of Congress. I take issue upon this proposition.
The Constitution says, "1Congress shall provide rules for the government of the army and navy '" What right .has the President
to do it ; The first act passed was in 1806, the 63d article of
which was a prohibition against employing the Corps of -Engineerson any other duty, and the same is subsequdntly repeated.. (MTIr
Coxe here went into an examnation of the laws and army regulations.)
Until 1824, no branch of engineering was taught except military
engineering. Congress has thus exercised its constitutional power,
and granted certain restricted powers to the Department. Whence
does the Attorney-General derive an unrestrained power in the
President, because he is commander-in-chief ; It is true that he
is so, but his orders, to be legal, must be confined to military
duty For example, he has no right to command an officer of the
army to attend to his (the President's) private business. There
is no authority, either, to order a 'military man to keep accounts,
or attend to administrative duties. The President has a general
superintending power of seeing all laws executed, but that is altoThis is not m
gether a distinct and separate head of authority
virtue of his being commander-in-chief of the army, but of being
President of the United States. Under this, -he can employ
agents, he may choose anywhere , may select civil engineers, or
officers of the army proper, to carry on diplomatic arrangements
or negotiate with the Indians. But, then, is not the person so
employed to be remunerated for his services P He must be, unless some law forbids such pav, and the President has the power
to contract that such pay shall be given. The only claim which
the United States had upon General Gratiot was to employ him
in civil engineering. The 67th article of the Regulations of
1825, paragraph 888, confines the services of the corps to such
works as were authorized by Congress, and whose execution was
charged upon the War Department. But many works have been
attended to, which were neither specifically charged upon the
War Department, nor bad any natural affinity with it, such, for
&ample, as dredging the Mississippi. The language of the regulation implies that the execution of these works must be charged,
by Congress, upon the War Department, at the same time that
the appropriation is made. If this is not the case, then their execution falls under the general power. of the President to see the
laws executed, and he may employ any body for this purpose.
The account which we have before us is for the performance of
VOL. IV

J

110

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot r. United States.

such extra official duties. Did they properly belong to the office
of an engineer
(Mr Coxe here referred to the following works
to show that they did not - 1. Dictionnanre de l'Acad~mie Franaise. 2. Campbell's Military Dictionary
3. Dobson's Encyclopadia. 4. Encyclopaedia Britannica. 5. Brande's Dictionary
of Science, Literature, and Art. 6. Rees's Cyclopwdia.) We
have also the testimony of practical engineers to the same point.
We have, in addition, much evidence where officers of all corps
have done other duty and been compensated, and even whee Congress has especially charged the execution of works upon the War
Department, such as the Cumberland road, officers have been paid
extra. General Gratiot was not allowed to give evidence of his
services, to establish an express or implied contract. Such
evidence was put in, and counter evidence taken, and then the
whole ruled out. It is, no doubt, the duty of a court to construe
written documents. But if a witness is sick and examined under a
commission, does this evidence thereby change its character, and
become a written document P If the decision of the court below
is assimilated to a demurrer to evidence, then every fact, and every
inference from it, must be taken to be true. For these reasons,
we thnk that the court below erred.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is now before us upon exceptions, taken upon ts trial
in the Circuit Court, to the instructions which were given by the
court, and such as it refused to give to the jury We do not think
them well-founded. When the instructions were given and refused,
the only matters in controversy were items 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 14,
15, m General Gratiot's set-off. The 4th, 9th, 10thb, 12th items,
and one half of the 11 th, had been withdrawn, having been allowed
in former settlements. The other half of 11, and the entire 5th
item, wete admitted by the district attorney, in the course of the
trial, to be audits against the demand of the United States. The
instructions then are to be considered in reference to the disputed
items 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 14, 15.
1
The first instruction was given upon item number 1, the second
upon item 2, the third upon item 3, the fourth upon items 6 4nd 7,
the fifth upon the 8th item, the sixth and seventh upon item 14, and
the eighth instruction upon item 15, comprehending under the last all
the particulars m the account attached to Mr. Benjamin Fowler's
deposition.
The instructions were intended by the court to be legal concluclusions from all the evidence m the cause. Our inquiries will be,
Are they so P And, as legal conclusions, were they given ii such
terms as in no way to encroach upon the province of the jury to
weigh the evidence as to the facts in the caseP
The first instruction demes the right to commissions upon the

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

111

Gratiot v. United States.

amount turned over to James Maurice. After another reason in no
way material to be here noticed, the court gives as a final reason for
rejecting the charge, that the only evidence in support of it was the
transcripts and that such evidence was not sufficient to authorize
any commission to be allowed for turning over the money to an
accounting officer.
The transcript alluded to is the account of General Gratiot
with the United States. It was a part of the record in the case
reported in 15 Peters, 336, and was used again as evidence upon
the trial of the cause in the Circit Court, with the consent of
General Gratiot.
We learn from it, that between the 27th August and the 20th
September, 1821, $ 46,050 had been remntted to General Gratiot,
then a major in the Corps of Engineers and the superintending
engineer of fortifications at Old Point Comfort, and that he, within the dates just mentioned, turned over the money to James Maurice, agent of fortifications, on account of Forts Calhoun and Monroe. This is the only evidence bearing upon the item. It is a
charge of a commission of 21 per cent. upon the amount, as it is
expressed in the set-off, for safe keeping and the responsibility incurred in receiving and turning it over to the agent, when General
Gratiot was not a disburatng agent. It is then established, that
the money was received and turned over to Maurice, when he was
the agent, and also what were the relations of General Gratiot and
of Maurice to the government at Old Pont -Comfort. Those relations arose from the 67th article of the General Regulations of
the Army, published in orders from the War Department in July,
I S21. From the detail in that article, particularly that paragraph of
it directing in what kind of money the agent should make payments,
and in what banks 't was to be kept by him, there is no doubt it
was intended that he should disburse from remittances made to
himself by the government. Such was to be the ordinary nature
of remittance. But by another paragraph, the superintending engineer had a general superintendence of the agents' disbursements,
and none could be made without his siguature. And by a third
paragraph in the same article, he could be required to perform the
duties of agent, when there was no agent of fortifications, for which
service a particular compensation is allowed. Is it not obvious,
then, with such a power in the Engineer Department, in the contingency mentioned, to call upon the superintending engineer to
perform the duties of agent, that remittances could be made to
him to be disbursed by himself, when at the time of the remittance
there was no qualified agent to receive it, or to be turned over to
an agent when one became qualified. The exact state of the ase
in that respect- we do not know, -the transcript does not show it,
but it is because it does not show it, and because the money wo
not disbursed by General Gratiot, but was paid over by him to

112

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

the agent in so short a time after it was received, that we are bound
to presume there was not an agent at Old Point qualified to receive
the remittances made to General Gratiot, and that intermediately,
before the money was turned over, the agent who did receive and
disburse it became qualified. There were only two officers to whom
remittances could be made and by whom they could be disbursed, -the superintending engineer and the agent for fortifications.
Such, then, must be the inference, as we have stated it, unless we
come to the overstrained conclusion, that the money was remitted
to G.neral Gratiot for some other purpose than for disbursement,
ane that the department was experimenting in a third way, as to
thi manner of making remittances and of disbursement, contrary
tc the regulations giving to it the direction of fortifications. The
money was clearly sent to be disbursed by General Gratiot, or by
an agent. If not for such purpose, it would not have been remitted. But having been remitted to the superintendent of fortifications, and not having been disbursed by him, it could alone have
been prevented by the supervention of an agent whose duty it became to do it, the regulation not permitting it to be done by the
superintendent, except when there was no agek for fortifications.
It is not necessary for us t ) go out of this course of reasoning for the
purpose of confirming it, but it is confirmed by the manner in which
the charge is made. It is "for the safe keeping of and responsibility for the following sums, placed in the custody of C. Gratiot, from
the 27th August up to the 7th and 20th September, 1821' the
dates of their being turned over to James Maurice, as shown on
the credit side of the transcript, &c., &c., when General Gratiot
was not a disbursng agent." Why for safe keeping, if at the time
the money was remitted James Maurice was a qualified agent to
whom the remittance could have been made? Why paid over to
him, if between the 27th August and the 7th and 20th September
Maurice had not become so? The terms in which the charge is
made disclose the fact to have been as we have inferred it Was,
and the error in making it has arisen from its having been supposed
that the superintending engineer could be the custodium of government money in any other character or purpose than that in which
it could be remitted to him.by the Engineer Department, under the
67th article of the Army Regulations of 1821. In this view of
the claim, no case of compensation by way of usage can apply to
it. Here is a case of an officer with certain duties, absolute and
contingent, well ascertained, with a fixed and equally well ascertained compensation for any and every service which he could be
called on to render. Compensation by way of usage has never
been sanctioned by the court in any case, except for extra official
service, which was within the equity of the act of 1797, ch. 74,
as that act was originally construed and applied in the case of the
United States v. Wilkms, 6 Wheaton, 135, and subsequently in

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

113

Gra'tiot v. United States.

the cases of McDaniel, Ripley, and Fillebrown, in 7 Peters, 1
18, 29. The instance of commissions having been allowed to General J. G. Swift, for money remitted to him and paid over by him
to the military agents, certainly does not apply to the case now under consideration. That was done under a very different state of
the law and of army regulations, - when there was neither law nor
regulation for making an engineer officer a receiving or disbursing
agent, when there was no military agent to receive and disburse
government funds. We think, then, that the court did not err in
instructing the jury, that the only evidence in support of the first
item was the transcrJpt, and that such evidence was not sufficient
to authorize any commission to be allowed merely for turning over
the money to an accounting officer.
The 2d, 6th, 7th, and 8th items in the set-off, and the instructions
given upon them, will be considered in connection, because the
transcript proves that the 6th, 7th, and 8th items, upon which commissions are a second time charged, though stated for a different
service, are parts of the aggregate of $ 84,325"58 upon which commissions are charged in the 2d item. The charge is a commission
of 21 per cent. upon that amount, for disbursing it "4from the 20th
May, 1822, to the 30th September, 1829, on account of the appropriations for fortifications other than those on Forts Monroe and
Calhoun." The 6th, 7th, and 8th items are for collections of money made for the United States, from Lewis & Co., Samuel Cooper, and for sales of public property
The first observation, which
we make here is, that the transcript shows that,'withmi two months
at furthest after General Gratiot had paid over the. sum mentioned
in his first item to.Maurice, he had been directed, in addition to his
duties as superintending engineer, to perform those -also of agent
for fortifications, and thus became the disbursing officer of all money applied by the Engineer Department to Forts Calhoun and Monroe. For this agency, a specific compensation is given by the
14th paragraph of the 67th article of Army Regulations, and
charged by General Gratiot accordingly, in the 4th and 5th items
of the set-off, both of which have been allowed to him, the 4th
in a former settlement, and the 5th having been admitted, as has
been already said, by the district attorney, upon the trial of the
cause, as a proper credit against the United States. Our second
observation is, that the transcript proves that the expenditure of
$ 84,325-58 was disbursed upon the fortifications of which General
Gratiot was the superintending engineer and disbursing agent, and
not upon other fortifications, as might be inferred from the manner
in which the charge is made. The whole sum, except $ 16,150"81,
was remtted to General Gratiot on account of the fortification of
which he was the superintending engineer and disbursing agent, and
that amount was turned over to him by the quartermaster to be reexpended upon Forts Calhoun 'and Monroe, upon each in proporJ*
15
VOL. xv.

114

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

tion to the relation which the sales of public property bore to the
sums expended for it out of the specific approputions mide by
(Congress for those forts distinctively Or in other words,, the
property sold had been -bought and paid for out of the specoc appropriations'for each fort, - was resold on account of each of them
re~pectively, - the amount of sales of the property of each fort being kept separately, wod were so handed over to General Gratiot
to be disbursed again. The transcript shows it was so disbursed.
This sum is the amount upon which a commission is charged in
the 8th item of the set-off, and which the court said in its fifth instructioii could not be allowed, 14 there -being no evidence but the
transcript to establish it, wich was not sufficient." The transcript
also shows that $ 27,699"43 of the amount of the 2d item in the
set-off, denominated in the 6th and 7th items collections from Lewis
& Co. and from Cooper, were stoppages out of money remitted to General Gratiot, from payments to be made to those persons, on account of advances which the government had made them
on their contracts to supply materials for Forts Calhoun and Monroe. Neither the 6th, nor-the 7th, nor the 8th items of the set-off
were collections of money by General GratiotA b the proper sense
of that term. The 6th and 7th items were money returned by im
out of moitei remitted to be disbursed by Inm as agent, and the
amount of the 8th item was handed over to him in the same character, and for the same purpose. Thus, the manner in wich
General Gratiot received more than the half of the 2d item of his
set-off, upon which a commission is charged for disbursing and
afterwards for receiving, has been shown from the transcript itself.
It also shows that the residue of the $ 84f,325"58 were aleo
remittances which had been made to him in his official relation of
agent of fortifications. And that the source from wlch theiaitm
sum was derived was from general appropriations made by Congress for fortifications, which the Engineer Department directed, as
it had a right to do, to be applied to Forts Calhoun and Monroe, in
addition to the sums expended upon each of them out of. sptifie
appropriations which had been manp for each. The manna of
making appropriations had been general, without particularsing the
fortification to which the sum was to be applied, anclalso appropriations fpr designated fortifications. A specific appropriationcould
not be diverted from its object, but general appropriations necessarily implied an application according to the discretion of the department which had the direction of fortifications. A remittance,
then, to General Gratiot from a general appropriation, to be applied
to the fortifications of which he was superintending engineer and
disbursing agent, falls directly within that paragraph of the 67th
article by which he was charged with the latter duty For which,
in addition to his pay and other emoluments, he was entitled to
xeceive two dollars a day for each forification for the construction

3A1NUAILT TRUX lft6.li
Grattet 9. Usited States.

of which he disbursed funds, provided his per diem did not exceed
two and a half per cent. on the sua expended. That sum, as a
e diem, amo%twg to more than $ 11,000, has been allowed.
From this detailed examinationof he trauscript (and this 2d item
is nowhere besides mentioned m the record),, it must be obviots
that the court Aid not err in the second, fourth, or fifth instructions
which it pave to the jury, -bywhich the 2d, 6th,-7th, and 8th items
of the set-off were disallowed, In making the charge, the opinion
gwen by this court in 15 Peters has been nsconceived. The
casetof Lieutenant' Turtle does not apply.
That was disbursmg
nboneys of separate appropriations upon works so distant from
each ,other that the allowance -was considered no more than an
equitable remuneration for extra official services, which involved
personal expenditure a getting to places: remote from each other
dremote from the locality where he had been detailed for duty,
The third instruction of the court upon the 3d item in the set-off
may be briefly disposed of. It will be remembered, that, besides
general and specific appropriions for ftiicatos, Congess made
appreiations for the repairs and contingencies of fortifications, and
it m for the disbursement of such an appropriation that a commsawon is charged in the 3d item. It is only necessary to look at the
transcript agam,to see that the remittances which were made to General Gratiot out of the appropriation for repairs and contingencies
were to be disbursed by him, and were disbursed by him under that
head upon Forts Calhoun and Monroe. We confess our mability
to disconnect such incidents from -the general duty of -the superintending engineer of a fortification, so as to make the service-an a!y
way extra official. Tli disbursement of the money is shown by
the transcript, and by the manner in which the charge is made, to
have been done in General Gratiot's character of agent of fortifications. In the long list of- compensation by way of usage furnished
to the court by General Gratiot, we can find no instance of any
allowance to an agent of fortifications for paying out such an -appropriation, and we will not refrain from saying; if it has ever hap.
pened it has been carelessly or inconsiderately made. We think
that the court did not err in the instruction which it gave upon this
item of the set-off.
The sixth and seventh instructions will now be considered. They
relate to the 14th itein in the set-off , substantially the same charge
which this court has said, m 15 Peters, hd no just foundation in
law. It differs from it only in phraseology, and from compensation
being claimed for services under the act of the 14th of July, 1832,
"to provide for taking certain observations preparatory to the adjustment of the northern boundary-line of Ohio." It is not necessary to
repeat what the court then said upon this charge. But we must say)
further examination into the laws and regulations applicable to the
subject has strengthened the opinion that all the services for which

16

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United Statea.

compensation is asked in the 14th item, except that relating to the
northern boundary-line of Ohio, were the ordinary special duties appertaining to the office of chief engineer. And with, respect to
th-exception the court did not err in charging the jury that there
was no evidence in the cause showing that the defendant had performed any such extra official, service. The correctness of every
instruction, that there is no evidence to prove a fact, whether such
an instruction i asked for or has been voluntarily given by the
court, must d pend upon the correctness of the assertion. The
court did no say in this case such services might not have been
a proper s, jebt for compensation, but as there was no proof of
what they were, none could be given. We think the court did not
err eithe in the sixth or seventh instruction.
The eighth general instruction relates to the 15th-and last item in
the set off, and was referred to by the court as an answer to all of
the n -tructions which were asked except the first and second. The
first was given and the second was rightly refused, not only for the
re son given by the court, but because the defendant consented to
ihe introduction of the transcript as evidence, which was a detailed
statement of moneys received by General Gratiot before 1839, and
could not therefore have. been surprised by any item against him
or by the proof in support of it. The 8th item is a round charge
of $ 37,127"42 for what are termed extra official services, from
the 30th of July, 1828, to the 6th of December, 183B, being the
whole time General Grauot acted as chief of the Corps of Engineers at Washington. It is not necessary and we refrain from making any one of the particulars in this item a subject of remark.
General Gratiot came to Washington as chief of the Corps of Engineers, with a bureau already organized, in which, by the regulations of the army, his predecessors had performed every service for
which an extra compensation is now asked, except those mentioned in the deposition of Colonel Totten, relating to the dire.ction of
the lithographic press, repairs on the nQrthwest executive -building,
and determining the northern boundary-line of the State of Ohio.
The sums expended for those purposes were made under the-coiltrol of the Engineer Department, and necessarily involved some superintendence by the chief engineer. But supposing it did so, and
that such services cannot be included within any of the regulations
by which the Engineer Department was organized, or which determnes the official duties of the chief engineer-, inasnuch as they are
not the subjects of a legal charge, it was necessary, before any compensation could be allowed for them under the equity of the act of
1797, ch. 20, that proofs should have been given of what had beep
the chief engineer's personal as well as official agency in those
matters. Merely the amounts expended could afford no rnie by
which compensation could be graduated. That buch services were
not liable to be charged for by a commission upon the amounts ex-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

117

Gratiot v. United States.

pended, or by a per diem allowance, the defendant himself admits by the way in which he has claimed compensation, the largest
expenditure being introduced as one of those particulars in his setoff of extra official services, for all of which he made an aggregate.
charge of $*37, 127-42. But in truth, with the exceptions just spoken of, al of the enumerated services m the 15th item of the set-off
called extra official were the proper business of the Engineer
Department, to be done by the chief engineer and his assistants in
Ins bureau.
The jury were so'mstructed by the court.
But it was urged in the argument, that the court used expressions, in refusing to give the fifth mstruction, which had the effect to
take from the jury the consideration of the evidence. If, .however,
the language complained of is taken in connection with the sentence
of which it forms a part, and the whole is viewed with reference to
the instruction as that is expressed, it will be found to be only introductory to a demal by the court of what counsel had assumed in
the instruction, that it was the province of the jury to expound the
law applicable to the facts. The instruction asked is, if from the
evidence thejury found, &c., &c., that the services "rendered were
out of the limits of the official duties of the chief engineer, that he was
entitled to -ompensation for such extra services." The court answered, that it was its duty to construe and apply the evidence, to
ascertain, as matter of law, what were the defendant's duties, &c.,
and, taking all the evidence and construing it, &c., none is adduced
showing or tending to show that the defendant performed any service not appertaining to his station as chief engineer, and then concludes that the eighth instruction, which it had before given on the
15th item of the set-off, was to govern the jury Inallthnswe think
that the court did not err.
We observe, in conclusion, that there was much ingemous and
able argument to maintain General Gratiot's right to claim compensation for extra services by considering the relations which he had
borne to the army in three points of view. First as engineer, then
as chief engineer; detached from duty at West Point, for service at
Washington, and lastly as a brigadier-general in the army of the
United States in the line of the army The whole of the argument, however, was rested upon two misapprehensions. One, that
the regulations of the army by which General Gratiot sustained to
it the first two relations, and particularly those wich had been applied to the second relation, were unauthorized by law. The other misapprehension was, that brevet rank of itself gave a right to
additional pay and command, and translated the officer receiving a
brevet from the duties of his commission to those of his brevet
rank. As to the army regulations, this court has too repeatedly
said, that they have the force of law, to make it proper to discuss
that point anew, and such of them as were assailed 16 the case by

11

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

counsel, as not warranted by law, the court think are as obligatory
as any of the-rest. In respect to the promotion of General Grahot by brevet, it is only necessary for us to say, that it did not release hun from any duty or service attached by the regulations and
by the usages of the office to his place of chief of the Corps of
Enneers at Washington.
Weorder the judgment of the court below to he affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN dissented.
When the decision m thig case was announced, I did not intend
to file a written dissent; but as the case is important to the plaintiff m error, beyond the damages recovered, and as the counsel desire the views of all the members of the-court on the points ruled,
I shall, in a very few words, state the ground of my dissent,
Many depositions were read in this case to show the usage of
the government in regard to pay, in the military servic for extra services performed, and also as to what constituted gae approprate duties of the clef of the Engineer Department. A great
variety of facts were thus proved, having a direct bearing upon the
duties of the plaintiff and the services stated by him as extra, as
not appertammg to his office, and for which he claimed a compensation. A number of instances were referred to where pay had
been allowed for extra services under the decisions of this court,
and a much greater number under the general usage of the government. Among other instructions, General Gratiot's counsel
asked the court to instruct the jury, "that if they find frqm the
evidence, that the defendant, by the direction of the President or
Secretary at War, performed any of the services charged for in
the last item of his account, being the said item attached to Fowler's deposition, and that the services so rendered were out of the
limits of his official duties as chief engineer, he is entitled to compensation for such extra services as a set-off in this action."
" The court refused this instruction, because the whole evidence
in the cause, without any exception, is written evidence, which
the court is called on to construe and apply, and not the jury ;
and from such evidence to ascertain, as matter of law, what were
the defendant's duties and acts, and taking all the evidenge ind
construing it the most favorably for the defendant, none is adduced.
showing or tending to show the defendant performed any service
not qppertaining to Ins duties as chief engineer, and for the
proper instruction on the item referred to, the eighth instructon is
to govern the jury "
The eighth instruction need not be repeated1 as it asserts t"e same
principles contained above, in which the court left nothing for the
jury When this case was before this court, 15 Peters, 371, the
court, in referring to the act of 1802, which provided for the orgaization of.the Engineer Corps, cited the 27th section, which do-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

1t

Gratiot 9. United States.

clues, "1that the said corps when so organized shall be established
at West Point, in thde State of New York, and shall constitute
a military academy, and the engineers, assistant engineers, and

cadets of the said corps shall be subject, at all times, to do duty
in such places, and on such service, as the President of the United
States shall direct." The court observe,-" However broad this
enactment is in its language, it never has been supposed to authorize the President to employ the Corps of Engineers upon any
other duty, except such as belongs either to-military engineering,
or to civil engineering."
"But assuming the Presidefit possessed
the fullest power, under this enactment, from time to time to employ any officers of the corps in the business of civil engineering,
still it must be obvious, that, as their pay and emoluments were or
would be regulated with reference to their ordinary military and
other duties, the power of the President to detach them upon
other civil services would not preclude him from contracting to
allow such detached officers a proper compensation for any extra
services. Such a contract may not only be established by proof
of some positive regulation, but may also be inferred from the
known practice and usage of the War Department."
Gen. J. G. Swift, who was formerly at the head of the Engineer
Corps, in his deposition, which was read as evidence, said,-" I
have looked over the account hereto attached, amounting to
$S7, 127-42, and am of opinion that the business or functions therein
charged do not pertain to the functions of a civil engineer, nor do
they pertain to the functions of a military engineer." And be
states, that while chief of the Engineer Corps he received additional compensation for extra services.
Major MciNeil, a witness, and who is a civil engineer, states,
on being requested "to look at the account of Charles Gratiot,
hereto annexed or appended, and state whether 'the services
therein charged belong to civil engineering or"military. engineering,
or to either," answered, -" I should say that they would be classed
under neither. They do not belong to the duties of the engineer,
either civil or military."
Captain Talcott held a commission in the Engineer Corps, from
August, 1818, to September, 1836, and he states, that while in the
corps for extra services he received extra allowances. And he
also says,
" I have examined the account" (of General Gratiot)
"4appended, and am of opinion that the several items of services
charged for do not appertain to either military or civil engineering."
And further, 1 I do not consider them the appropriate duties of
the chief engineer, or of any other engineer."
It is adrmtted, that so far as the duties of the clef of engineers
were regulated by law, or by regulations of the War Department,
they may be considered as matter of law for the court, but much
parol evidence was heard as to the appropriate duties of that offi-

120

SUPREME COURT.
Gratiot v. United States.

cer, and to ascertain what part of the services charged for came
within such duties. Now these were matters of fact for the jury,
and not for the court. The claim was to be allowed or rejected,
according to the usage of the department, and that usage, like
every other fact not established by judicial decision, is a subject
of proof.
The depositions above referred to were only a part of those
which were read in evidence. Other witnesses differed with those
I have cited, as to some of the material facts stated, and to determine this conflict was the peculiar province of the jury But the
whole evidence was ruled by the court, and not permitted to be
On this ground, I think the judgment
weighed by the jury
should be reversed.
This ruling is attempted to be sustained by the -view of the
court in the case in 15 Peters, above cited.
The third item charged by General Gratiot, in the account then
For extra services, in conducting the
relied on, was as follows -"
affairs connected with the civil works of internal improvement carried on by the United States, and referred to the Engineer Department for execution, and which did not constitute any part of
his duties as a military officer, from the 1st day of August, 1828, to
the 6th day of December, 1838, inclusive, ten years and one hundred and twenty-eight days, at $3,600 per annum, $37,262"46."
And in their opinion in that case, the court did say,-" As to the
3d item, constituting- a charge of $ 37,262-46, for extra services, in
conducting the affairs, connected with the civil works of internal imThe court
provement, very different considerations may apply
are of opinion, that this item has no just foundation in law, and
therefore, that the evidence which was offered in support of it, if
admitted, would not have maintained it." The reason assigned by
the court was, that the services specified came within the official
and ordinary duties of the office.
Now, the account rendered at the last trial differed in amount,
though the difference is small,-from the one charged in the first account, and to which the above remarks of the court are applicable.
But there is a much greater difference.
The items of service are specified in the last account, spreading
over several pages, instead of the general charge cited. And the
depositions which I have referred to, and others not named, 'were
taken in the cause subsequently to the delivery of the above opinion. The facts thus thrown into .the case gave it a new aspect.
They particularized the service, and showed, by distinguished engineers, what did and what did not belong to the duties of General
Gratiot, as chief of engineers.
In the opinion of the court, the service, as teneralized in the'first
account, being connected with internal improvements, came within
the general regulations of the War Department, and might, there-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

121

Gratiot v. United States.

fore, in their opinion, be decided as matter of law However this
may be, I hold that the new and numerous facts proved as to
usage and the extra duties of General Gratiot were matters for the
jury and not for the court, consequently, that there was error in
withholding them from the jury
in his account, General Gratiot charged the government for the
disbursement of upwards of eighteen millions of dollars for "1fortifications, internal improvement, light-houses and beacons,. Military
Academy, lithographic piers, northwest executive buildings, and
northern boundary of Ohio."
The transcript containing the above charge was regularly certified by the Treasury Department as having been presented by
General Gratiot, and disallowed, "1as not admissible against the
treasury " That the services charged for were rendered was not
disputed.
Benjamin Fowler, a clerk in the Engineer Department, testified.
that the services, as charged by General Gratiot, had been performed..
In their second instruction, the court informed the .ury that the
defendant was not entitled to any credit for commissions on disbursements on account of appropriations for fortifications, as
charged by him. Of this item, the only evidence in the cause is
that furnished by the transcript introduced by the United States,
as the principal evidence on which the defendant is charged, and
the evidence thereby furnished, is not sufficient to authorize the
jury to allow the defendant the credit claimed. The same instruction was substantially given in regard to disbursements- for fortifications, and for other objects, as charged.
Now it would seem that the transcript above stated, certified by.
the Treasury as containing General Gratiot's account disallowed,
proved the services charged were rendered, and-they were also
proved by Fowler, whose deposition was taken in 1842, since this
case was before us on the former writ of error. And whatever
part of those disbursements did not appropriately belong to the
office of General Gratiot, under the usage of the War Department
and the opinion of this court in the former case, would constitute
a fair ground for compensation.
Some of the otherinstructions might be commented on, in reference to the evidence,; but I deem it unnecessary to do so, as in my
opinion the judgment should be reversed on "the grounds already.
stated.

VOL. IV

