JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

591

Rhode Island v..Massachusetts.

upon it, when, as the law now stands, no means or process is authorized by which our judgment could be executed. We think,
therefore, that no judgment or decree rendered by the lat6 Territorial C6urt can be reviewed here by writ of error or appeal, unless
some further provision on that subject shall be made by Congress.
Consequently, the motion in this case mut be refused.

THE STATE aT RHODE ISLAND, COIMPLAINANT,
MAssAcHUsETTs, DEFENDANT.

t.

TEE STATE OF

The grant of Massachusetts, confirmed in 1629, inicluded the teritory "lying within the space of three English miles on the south part of Charles River, or of any
or every part thereof."
In 1662, the grant of Connecticut called to be bounded on the north by the line
of the Massachusetts. plantations.
In
33, the grant of Rhode Island called to be bounded on the north by the
southerly line at Massachusetts.
Whether the measurement of the three miles shall be from the body of the river,
or from the head-waters of the streams which fall into, it, is not clear. The
charter may be construed either way without doing violence to its language.
The early exposition of it is not to be disregarded, although it may not be conelusive.
In 1642, Woodward and Saffrey fixed a station three miles south of the southern.
most part of one of the tributaries of Charles River.
An express order of the crown was not necessary to run this line, as it was not then
a case of disputed boundary.
In 1702, commissioners were appointed by Massachusetts nd Rhode Island to
run the boundary-line, who admitted the correctness of the former line.
In 1710, Rhode Island appointed an agent to conclude the matter on such terms as
he might judge most proper, who agreed that the stake set up by Woodward and
Saifray should be considered as the commencement of the line.
In 1711, Rhode Island sanctioned this agreement.
in 1718, Rhode Island again appointed commissioners with power to settle the line,
who agreed that the line should begin at the same place. This was accepted by
Massachusetts and Rhode Island, the line run accordingly by commissioners,
and the ruifning approved by Rhode Island.
The allegation that the commissioners of Rhode Island were mistaken as to a fact,
and believed that the stake was within three miles of the main river and not one
of its tributaries, is difficult to establish, and cannot be assumed against transactions which strongly imply, if they do not prove, the knowledge.
If the first commission was mistaken, it almost surpasses belief that the second
should again be misled.
To sustain the allegation of a mistake, it must be made to appear, not only that the
station was not within the charter, but that the commissioners believed it to be
within three miles of'the river, and that they had no knowledge of a fact as to
the location of it which should have led them to make inquiry on the subject.
Even if the calls of the charter had been deviated from, which is not clear, still
Rhode Island would be bound, because her commissionem were authorized to
compromise the dispute.
It is doubtful whether-a court of chancery could relieve against a mistake commit.
ted by so high an agency, in a recent occurrence. It is certain that it could not,
except on the clearest proof of mistake.
This mistake is not clearly established, either in the construction of the charter, or
as to the location of the Woodward and Saffre station.
Even if the mistake were proved, it would be difcult to disturb a possession of two
centuries by Massachusetts under an assertion of right, with the claim admitted
by Rhode Island and other colonies in thd most solemn form.

592

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

For the security of rights, whether of states or individuals, long possession, under
a claim .f title, is protected. And there is no controversy in which this great
principle may be invoked with greater justice and propriety, than in a case of
disputed boundary.

Tixs was a case of original jurisdiction in the Supreme Court,
which now came up for final argument, having been partly discussed at a former term, and reported in 12 Peters.
A full statement of the case, with an analysis of the historical
documents filed by the respective parties, would require a volume.
The facts are summarily recited in the opinion of the court, which
the reader is requested to peruse before reading the arguments of
counsel.
The case was argued by AMr. Randolph and Mr. Whipple, on
the part of Rhode Island, and by Mr. Choate and Air. Webster,
on the part of Massachusetts.
The points of the arguments will be sufficiently understood by
transcribing the briefs of the respective counsel. Air. Randolph
.opened the case for the complainant. Mr. Choate and Air. Webster followed, on the part )f the defendant, and Mr. Whipple concluded the argument, on oehalf of Rhode Island.
The brief on the part of the complainant was as follows :
1st. That the words in the charter of Massachusetts of 1628,
"three miles north of tho Merrimack River, and the most northerly part thereof, and three miles south of Charles River, and*the
most southerly part thereof," according to their usual, ordinary,
and long-established import, authorized lines three miles north and
south of the Merrimack and Charles proper, and did not comprehend the tributary streams of either.
2d. That this was the construction given to the above words by
the first settlers, and the colonial government of Massachusetts ;
that they not only thus limited their claim, but erected a boundhouse three miles north of the Merrimack proper, near its mouth,
in 1636, at a period when rival and opposing claims, as well as adversary settlements all along the line, forewarned her that she bad
reached the utmost limit of her chartered rights.
3d. That, notwithstanding these stimulating inducements, Massachusetts neglected to exercise any jurisdiction over a very large
body of inhabitants, who had possessed the territory immediately
north of her from 1621 until 1641, when, upon " the reiterated
and earnest solicitation of the inhabitants," she received under her
protection these inhabitants, who, according to her subsequent and
very ambitious iiretensions, had been all along her own people, upon
her own soil, and famishing for want of sustenance and protection
from their oivn government.
4th. That in 1638, 1639, and up to 1642, Massachusetts sur-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

593

Rhode Island r. Massachusetts.

veyed both her northern and southern lines. Taking the same
principle as her guide on both her borders, she found the source of
the tributary streams of the Charles on the south, and the Merrimack on the north, running her south line at or near the Woodward
and Saffrey station, and her north from some part of Lake Winnepiseogee, thereby embracing all the State of New Hampshire,
and nearly all the State of Maine, and she extended a jurisdiction,
savoring strongly of conservatism, if not of severity, over both.
5th. That Massachusetts continued to exercise her jurisdiction"
over these extended limits from 1641 till 1676, except being ordered
away from Maine by the king's commissioners, somewhere about
1660, which order she disobeyed, when John Mason, the proprietor of New Hampshire, presented his petition to the king. The
merits of the claims were closely scrutinized by the king~and council, aided by the chief justices of the King's Bench and Common
Pleas. Massachusetts was unsuccessful in her new pretensions,
and obliged to retire to the old bound-house, upon the Merrimack
proper.
6th. That the decree of the king and council of 1677 was"not
a judicial decision merely, which other judicial bodies are at liberty
to respect or not, according to its- merits, but the decision of a
grantor in relation to a grant, revocable in its very nature, - a grant
of jurisdiction, and not of territory ; that consequently the will of
the king, thus expressed, was tantamount to a revocation of the old
grant, and the issuing of a new one.
7th. That the agreement of 1710 and 1718 was entered into by
the Rhode Island co mnissionets, upon the representation of the
"Massachusetts commissioners that the Woodward and Saffrey station was three miles from Charles River proper, and not three miles
from any of its tributary streams, as is stated in the answer of
Massachusetts.
That no such pretension was then made, or ever
made by Massachusetts after said decision of 1677. On the contrary, the whole entire agreement of 1710- 1718 was entered into
by Rhode Island, under the full belief that said stationwas three
miles, and no more, from Charles River proper.
8th. That the only matter in dispute between said commissioners,
from the first to the last, was not as to the station or starting-place,
but in regard to the course of the line ; that no compromise was
ever proposed by either party as to th" starting-point ; that both
parties agreed upon the Woodward and Saffrey station, because it
was represented and believed to be three miles from Charles River
proper, according to charter ; and that this mistake was not discovered until 1750.
9th. That in 1750 Rhode Island appointed commissioners to
meet those of Massachusetts, in order to complete the execution
of the agreement of 1710- 1718 ; that being unable to find the
Woodward and Saffrey station (still believed to be three miles from
xx *
75
VOL. IV.

594

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

Charles River proper), they were obliged to measure three -mriles
from the river, and run in, east and west line from its terminatton ;
that they erected monuments upon that line (four miles north of the
pretended Woodward and Saffrey station), and the State of Rhode
Island has claimed to that line, indicated by said bounds, still remaining, from that day to the prgs-ent;
10th. That it was never pretended by Mgsachusetts that the
Woodward and Saffrey station was the fruit of compromise, or
that it was three miles from the tributaries of Charles River, until
as late as 1790, when the commissioners of Massachusetts endeavoured to defend their claims upon that basis ; that, on the contrary, Massachusetts, from 1710-1718 up to 1790, through her
commisioners, uniformly claimed to the Woodward and Saifrey
station, as being according to charter; and the agreement of Rhode
Island of 1710-1718 as her title, and her only title, according to
charter.
11th. That the assertion of the answer, that flassachusetts had
claimed still fufther south (to the angle tree), and that Rhode Island claimed to Charles River proper, and-that, upon these rival und
opposing clains,-a medium station was adopted, is contrary to the
entire body of the evidence in the case, contrary to the fact, and
mainly, if not entirely, the offspring of the active imaginings of
learned and anxious counsel.
12th. That tha answer is no evidence, coming from a corporation, in any case ; much more as to matter not responsive to the
bill.
13th. That Massachusetts never granted to the town of Providence the five thousand acres of land stipulated and covenanted to
be granted by said agreement of 1710-1718 ; and that, in a court
of equity, although covenants are independent, yet one will not be
enforced without a full performance of the other. Best on Presumptions.
14th. Upon these facts the plaintiffs will contend that the agreement of 1710 was void,1. Because made under an evident and apparent mistake.
2. That it cannot operate to transfer four miles of the acknowl-,
edged territory of Rhode Island, because Rhode Island, as a colo:
ny, had no power to transfer her jurisdiction to Massachusetts.
3. That no confirmation can be presumed, because a confirmation of a void agreement is void itself.
4. Because a confirmation must have been of record in England, and also in Massachusetts, if not in Rhode Island ; and that
no case has gone the length of presuming the loss of a record, without some foundations being first laid to support such presumption.
5. Because Massachusetts has always claimed under the agreement of 1710- 1718, and never alleged or pretended that there
was any other title.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

595

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

6. Because the subject of the bounds of Massachusetts, involving the dispute in the present case, has been at various periods
before the commissioners of the king, 1664 ; before the king and
council, 1677, 1737 ; and at various other times between Connecticut and Rhode Island; and no such confirmation has ever been
suggested, but the direct reverse.
Cases as to .Mistake of Facts.
" A man is presumed to know the law. But no man can be
presumed to be acquainted with all matters of fact, and therefore
an ignorance of facts does not import culpable negligence."
Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 156.
"The generc1 rule is, that an act alone, or contract made under
a mistake or ignorance of a material fact, is voidable and relievable in equity." Ibid., 155.
If instruments be delivered up by mistake, and owing to ignorance of a transaction which would have made it unconscientious
to.hold the instrument and proceed at law, equity will relieve. 1
Aladd. Ch. Practice. The case cited is the East India Company
v. Donald, 9 Ves. jr., from 275. A charter-party was delivered
up to the defendant after a voyage, the provisions of which he had
violated, the plaintiff being ignorant of the violation. It was agreed
that there was no fraud nor misrepresentation, but the court said
there was a plain mistake.
Tompkins v. Beret, 1 Salk. 22. One of three persons paid
money on a usurious bond, aid afterwards recovered it back as
paid by mistake, he not knowing the fact of the usury.
Bingham v. Bingham, I Ves. sen. 126, in 1748. " An agreement was made for the sale of an estate to the plaintiff by defendant, who had brought an ejectment in support of a title thereto
under a will.
"1The bill was to have the purchase money refunded, as it appeared to have been the plaintiff's. estate.
"It was insisted that it was plaintiff s own fault, to whom the
title was produced, and who had time to consider it.
"Decreed for the plaintiff, with costs, and interest for the money from the time of bringing the bill ; for the no fraud appeared,
and the defendant apprehended he had a right. Yet there was a
plain mistake, such as the court was warranted to relieve against,
not to suffer the defendant to run away with the money, in consideration of the sale of an estate to which he had no right."
Rhode Island gave away her own territory, instead'of the territory which Mfassachusetts was entitled to.
Gee v. Spencer, 1 Vernon, 32. A release set aside by reason
of the misapprehension of the party. Luxford's case cited.
2 Yes. sen. 400. A general release relieved against, as to particulars not in thd knowledge of the party.

596

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

Evans v. Llewellyn, 2 Bro. Ch. Cas. 150. A conveyanceset
aside, as improvidently entered into ; though no fraud or impdsition.
N. B. The report of this case is more full in Cox. See Leonard v. Leonard, 2 Ball and Bgatt. 184.
An omission in an agreement by mistake, starids on the same
ground as an omission'by fraud. Chitty's Dig., tit. .Mistake.
Ramsbottom v. Gordon, 1 Ves. & B. 168 ; 3 Atk. 388 ; 4
Bro. Ch. Cas. 514 ; 6 Ves. 334, note c.
Cocking v. Pratt, 1 Ves. sen. 400. J. Self, dying intestate,
left a widow and daughter, then anrinfant, who, four months after
coming of age, entered into ani agreement with her mother concerning the distribution of the personal estate ; which agreement
was afterwards ratified by the daughter's husband. After the
daughter's death, the husband brought a bill, as her administrator,
to set aside the agreement, and to have a distributive share ac,.vording to her right.
Master of the Rolls. "The daughter clearly did not intend to
take less than her full share, her tWo-thirds of the value, though
what that was did not clearly appear'; but she thought what was
stipulated for. her was her full share.
" The court will look with a jealous eye upon a transaction between parent and child. Whether there has been suppressio veri
does not clearly appear.
" But there is another foundation to interpose, that it appeared afterwards that the personal estate amounted to more, and the party
-suffering will be permitted to come here to avail himself of that
want of knowledge, not-indeed in the case of. a trifle, but some
bounds must be set to it. ' The daughter would be entitled to five
or six hundred pounds more, which is very material in such a sum
as this, aild a ground for the court to set it iight. The daughter
her full
did not act on the ground of a composition, but took it
share ; and if it appears not so, the court cannot suffer -.e agreement to stand. As to the ratificatioh by the husband, he was as
much in the dark."
Griffith v. Trapwell, June, 1732, was cited in the above case,
"where one. died intestate, leaving two sisters, the plaintiff's
wife and the defendant's wife. The latter first got administration,
and prevailed on the other to accept of an agreement for her share.
There was-a further agreement, that the plaintiff's wife should have
a further shre , reciting that, she should have an equal share, and
that there should be a decree for that. The plaintiff afterwards
discovered the estate to be a great deal more, and brought a bill of
review,' and both the decree and agreement were set aside."
Pooley et al. v. Ray, 1 Peere. Wins. -354. The executor of a
"rmortgagde, coming before the master, and not admitting any of his
mortgage to have been paid, proved his deed, and got a report for

JANUARY
Rhode Island

TERM, 1846.
i.

597

Massachusetts.

the whole amount of his. debt, z£ 700, which report was afterwards
confirmed and made absolute. Afterwards it appeared, under 1he
mortgagee's own band, that X 353 had been paid by the mortgagor.
The defendant had paid this money away to creditors.
Master of the Rolls. "Let the master see whether there has been
a double payment, and as to so much as has been overpaid it must
be allowed to the plaintiffs." This, on appeal, was confirmed by
Lord Cowper.
Honor v. Hbnor, 1 Peere Wins. 123. Articles, and a settlement mentioned to be made in pursuance thereof, were both made
before marriage, but the settlement varied from the uses of the articles. Decreed to set the settlement aside.
Chancellor. " It is a plain mistake in varying the settlement
from the articles, and this appearing upon the face of the papers,
the plain reason of the thing, length of time, is immaterial." Same
case, 2 Vern. 658 ; 1 Madd. Ch. 61.
But though a court of law will not grant a new trial merely to
enable a party to get fresh witnesses, nor would a court of equity
interfere on such grounds ; yet where the admissions come from the
party himself, upon a bill of discovery, filed after the trial, it is very
different, and the court will in such case relieve. I Maddock's Ch.
77 ; Harkey 1'. Vernon, 2 Cox, 12.
Under peculiar circumstances, however,, excusing or justifying
the delay, courts of equity will not refuse their aid in furtherance
of the rights of the party ; since insuch cases there is no pretence to insist on laches or negligence, as a ground of dismissal
of the suit. 1 Story's Eq. Jurisp. 503, 504 ; Lobdell v.Creagh,
1 Bligh (N. S.), 255 ; 1 Fonbl. Eq., B. 1, ch. 4, p. 27, and
notes ; Jeremy on Eq. Jurisp., B. 3, pt. 2, ch. 5, pp. 549, 550.
If the legatee allege that he knew not of his right, time is no bar.
Nor when fraud is proved. Fonbl., as above.
Garland v. Salem Bank, 9 Mass. R. 408. A.n indorser paid a
note, ignorant that no demand had been made upon the maker or notice to himself, though he was advised not to pay it. Held to be a
payment by mistake, and he recovered back again. 4 Mass. R..
378; 3 Mfass. R. 74; 5 Burr. 2672; 1 Durn. & East, 712;
1 Bos & Pull. 326 ; Doug. R. 638.
The case of The Union Bank v.The Bank of the United States,
3 Mass. R. 74, is a strong case.

The marginal note is,

-"

1 If

A., confiding, though improperly, in the mistaken affirmation of B.,
pay him money, A. shall recover it back."
The case was, the branch bank had received two bad checks,
which they supposed they had received from the Union Bank.
They sent them to the Union Bank by their messenger, stating that
they came from the Union Bank ; whereupon the Union Bank paid
them. Between the time of paying them by the Union Bank nd
the discove y of the mistake, Rawson, who draw them, failed and

598

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

absconded ; so that the branch bank lost the amount. Judge Parsons and the Supreme Court decided that the loss must fall on the
branch bank, who committed the first error.
The cases in Douglass and Bos. & Pull. are both cases of paymentt by mistake, and as strong as the two cases in Mass. Reports.
Cases of Settlements and Marriage Aqrticles being reformed on Account of .Mistake.
Randall v. Randall, 2 Peere Wins. 464, in 1728. In that
case) the husband had confessed, under hand and seal, that both the
articles and settlement limited the estate to his heirs in fee, when it
was the ibtention of the mother pf his wife to limit it to the heirs
of the wife in fee. The articles and settlement were reformed.
Lord Chancellor King decreed the estates to be settled upon the
heirs of the wife in fee.
West'v. Erissey, 2 Peere Wins. 349, in 1726. Where the
settlement made, before the marriage, varied materially from the
articles, but stated to be made "in pursuance of the. Articles and
performance," the settlement will be presumed to depart from the,
articles by mistake.
See note of Cox to the above case. See 3 Bro. Parl. Cases,
347, in 1727.
Honor v. Honor, 1 Peere Wms. 123, in 1710, before Lord Chancellor Cowper) establishes the same principle. , The articles limited the estates to the heirs of the body of the wife. The settle-'
.ment (made before marriage, and in pursuance of the articles) was
to the heirs of the body ot the husband of the wife begotten.
Lord Chancellor.
' It is a plain mistake, in making the settlement vary from the artlcles "
After reciting the articles, he further says, ." And the articles
being so, the settlement, which is said td be in pursuance of the
articles, shows there was no alteiation of the intention, nor any new
agreement, between the making of the articles and the settlement.
And this appearing upon the face of the articles and settlement, and
in the plain reason of the thing, length of time is immaterial."
In the case of Motteaux v. The London Ins. Co., 1 Atk. 545,
in 1739, Halhead, as agent of the plaintiff, paid the defendants fifteen pounds premium, being at the rte of three per cent., which
was the current premium then, upon the ship, at and from Fort St.
George, and a label of such agreement was, on the 7th of August,
1733, entered in a book, and subscribed by Halhead and two of
the directors. "The .policy was made out from Fort St. George.
Lord Hardwicke rectified the mistake, saying that the policy ought
to have conformed to the libel.
In Baker v. Paine, 1 Ves. sen. 458, in 1750, Lord Hardwicke
rectified an agreement by previous minutes of the parties.
In Barstow v. Kilvington, 5 Ves. jr. 592, Lord Eldon rec-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

500

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

tified a settlement by a previous letter of the party.
similar case cited in a note to that case.

See also a-

Cases of Compromise.
If a lierson, after due deliberation, enter into an agreement for
tlhe purpose of corqpromising a claim made bond fide, to which he
believes himself tdbe liable, and with the nature and extent of whichi'
he is'fully acquainted, the compromise of such a claim is a sufficient consideration for the agreement, and a court of equity, without inquiring whether he in truth was liable to the claim, will compel
a specific performance. Atwood v.
, 1 Russell, 353 ; 5
Russell, 149, affirmed on appeal.
If a party, ignorant. of-plain and settled principle of law,. is induced to yield a portion of his indisputable right, equity will relieve ;
but where title is doubtful, and with due deliberation he enters -into
compromise, no relief is:given, nor is consideration inquired into.
1 Sim. &. Stu. 564.
No remedy in equity for the recovery of money paidL on compromise of an action, where the party had full knowledge of the
facts, and the means of proving them at the trial. Goodman v.
Sayers, 2 Jac. &. Walk. 249.
A compromise of rights, doubtful in point of laiW, but founded
upon a misrepresentation or suppression of facts in the knowledge
of one of the parties only, cannot be supported. Leonard v.
Leonard, 2 Ball & Beatt. 171,
To constitute a fair compromise of right doubtful in point of
law, the facts creating this doubt should be fairly stated, Ibid. 181.
It is essential to the validity of a compromise that hoth parties
be in equal ignorance. Ibid. 182.
Defence of compromise is not proper for answer; but for plea
only. 1 Ball & Beatt. 323.
.Ruthorities as to Presumptions of Title.
"A grant of land will never be presumed from lapse of time,
unless it be so great as to create the belief that it was actually
made, or unless the facts and circumstances show that the party to
whom it is presumed to have been made was legally or equitably
entitled to it." Note to Mathews on Presumptions, 296, ed. of
1830 ; 6 Cowen, 706 ; 3 Johns. 269; 109 ; 1 Wash. C. C. R. 70.
No possession of one claiming under a defective title can raise a
presumption of a good title. Mathews, 198, note; 5 Harris &
Johns. 230 ; 1 Harris &'Johns.. 18 ; Beal v. Lynn, 6 Harris &
Johns. 336.
"1Presumptions of law are suppositions or opinions previously
formed on questions of frequent occurrence, being found, from ex-perience, to be generally accordant with truth, and remain of force
until repeiled by contrary evidence.

600

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

",Presumptions of fact are conclusions drawn from particular circumstances. Many of the presumptions of law were formerly considered too powerful to admit of contradiction, but this doctrine is
now confined principally to the doctrine of estoppels." Mathews,
2; Phillips on Evidence, 6th ed., 146.
" The grounds upon which legal presumptions rest are various.
In some cases on the laws of nature and the general principles of
justice, on the nature and general incidents of property. In others,
on those innate principles of self-interest and prudence, .which generally govern the conduct of men," &c. Mathews, 2.
Other legal presumptions originate in the policy of the law. Of
this description, however, as they relate to property, examples are
rare.
Presumptions of fact are such as are usually found by experience to be consequent upon, or coincident with, the.facts presumed. They must correspond with, and be adequate to account
for, the circumstances actually proved." Mathews, 4.
"Legal presumptions generally apply to facts of a transitory
character, the proper evidence of which is not usually preserved
with care ; but not to records or public documents, &c., unless
proved to have been lost or destroyed." Mathews, 4, in note
Brunswick v. McKean, 4 Greenleaf, 511.
"Presumptions from evidence of the existence of particular facts
are, in many cases, if not all, mixed questions of law and fact. If
the evidence be irrelevant to the fact insisted upon, or such as cannot fairly warrant a jury in presuming it, the court would err in
instructing them that they are at liberty to presume it." Ibid. p.
5, note ; Bank of United States v. Corcoran, 2 Peters's S. 0. 1C.
133.
" Following up this principle, courts will, in favor of long possession, presume as well the existence of the :needful instruments
of conveyance, as the observance of all such acts and solemnities
as are requisite to make actual assurances valid."
Fines and recoveries are an exception, which cannot be presumed without eVidence directly pointing to them.
Act of parliament, and grants from the crown, though assurances of rdcord, are constantly presumed, within even the time of
legal memory. Cowp. 102, 215 ; Jac. & Walk. 63, 159 ; 11
East, 488. See Am. authorities in note, p. 6, Mathews.
cIgnorance has sometimes, in courts of equity, been held to
afford an answer to averred releases of demands. The desertion
,ofa right, it has- been judicially observed, always supposes a previous knowledge of it. It is absurd to say, that a man has relinquished a right of which he is not aware." Mathews, 17, 18 ;
Sel. Ch. Gas. 11 ; 2 Peere Wins. 736 ; per Sir Win. Grant,
2 Mer. 362.
In England there is but little difference between the doctrine of

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

601

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

prescription, and the doctrine of presuming lost- grants, in regard
to the'objects embraced by the two principles.
The doctrine of prescription never extended to lands in fee, or
corporeal hereditaments, nor -did it extend to such incorporeal
rights as could exist only by matter of record ; such as many species of royal franchise, deodands, traitors' or felons' goods, &c.
On the other hand, the doctrine of presuming grants never extended to corporeal hereditaments ; but, unlike the doctrine of
prescription, it embraced all incorporeal hereditaments, whether
evidenced by matters of record, or purely by grant. Patents
from the crown, and acts of parliament even, were presumed to
exist.
The great difference between the two doctrines consisted mainly in the length of time necessary for their successful operation.
Under the doctrine of prescription, as it exists in England to
this day, immemorial usage must be established. Therefore, i it
appears that the title to be presumed had no existence at any time
subsequent to the Ist Rich. 1 (1189), there is an end to the power
and agency of prescription.
On the other hand, while the doctrine ot presuming grants embraced a i'ather'wider range of olijects or titles, its children were
deemed legitimate, though comparatively of modern birth.
This latter doctrine, however,. during the whole of its minority,
experienced considerable opposition from many wise, as well as
learned, lawyers. 2 Ev. Poth. 139.
The parliament of England, by the 2d and, 3d Wm. 4 (1822),
were obliged to remedy some of the evils growing out of judicial
fictions. The real property commissioners express themselves as
follows :" Amid these difficulties, it has been usual of late, for the purpose of supporting a right Which has been long enjoyed, but which
can be shown to have originated within time of legal memory, to
resort to the clumsy fiction of a lost grant, which is pleaded to
have been made by some person seized in fee of the servient, to
another seized in fee of the dominant, tenement. But, besides the
objection of its being well known to the 'counsel, judge, and jury,
that the plea is unfounded'in fact, the object is often -frustrated by
proof of the fact of the. two tenements having been such that the
fictitious grant could not bave been made in the manner .alleged in
the act."
44 In addition to all this," says Best, "it was well observed,
that the requiring juries to make artificial presumptions of this kind
amounted, in many cases, to a heavy tax on their consciences,
which it was highly expedient should be removed. In a word,
it became apparent that the -evil could only be remedied by legislation, and the statutes of Win. 4 were passed for that purpose."
VOL.

v.

76

y"

602

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

" Whether deeds of conveyance can be presumed, in cases
where the law has made provision for their registration, has been
doubted.
" The point was argued but not decided, in Doe v. Hirst, 11
Price, 475. The better opinion seems to be, that though the
court will not in such cases presume the existence of the deed as a
mere inference of law, yet the fact is open for the jury to find, as
in other cases." Note to 1 Greenl. Ev. 52.
In the United States, while the doctrine of presuming a grant
has been applied to corporeal as well as to incorporeal hereditaments, and the sphere of its operation very much enlarged, yet, at
the same time, the principle of its operation has been circumscribed within very narrow, and in all probability very safe, grounds.
It is placed beyond the reach of the innovation of mere book lawyers and book judges, and rests, as a mere matter of fact, upon the
common sense of a jury.
The judges in England were obliged to flee to this matter of fact
view, as a refuge from the rapidly increasing evils growing out of
artificial presumptions. In this country, upon this subject, there
are no artificial presumptions. It is simply a case of circimstantialInevidence.
6 Cowen, 725, it is said :A grant of land will never
.be presumed, unless the lapse of time is so great as to create a
belief that it was actually made ; or unless the facts and circumstances show, that the party to whom it is presumed to have been
made was legally or equitably entitled to it." Mathews on Presumption, 296, note, ed. 1836 ; 6 Cowen, 706 ; 3 Johns. 109
269 ; 1 Wash. C. C. Rep. 70.
Same principle in 2 Wendell, 13-15.
In Ricard v. Williams, 7 Wheat.'59, this court decided, that
Presumptions of a grant, arising from a lapse of time, are applied to corporeal as well as to incorporeal hereditaments. They
may be encountered and rebutted by ,contrary presumptions, and
can never arise where all the circumstances are entirely consistent
with the non-existence of a grant. .8 fortiori, they cannot arise
when the claim is of such a nature as is at variance with the supposition of a grant."
"Legal presumptions generally apply to facts of a transitory
character, the proper evidence of which is not usually preserved
with care ; but not to records or public documents in the custody
of officers charged with their preservation, unless proved to have
been lost or destroyed." Cowen & HilPs Notes to Phillips, Part
1, p. 364; Brunswick v. McKean, 4 Greenl. 508.
See Cowen & Hill's notes, generally, on subject of presumptions.
"No possession of one claiming under a defective title can

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

603

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

raise a presumption of a good title." Mathews, 198, note ; 5
Harris & Johns. 230 ; 1 ibid. 10; 6 ibid. 336.
" Presumptions from evidence, of the existence of particular
facts, are, in many cases, if not all, mixed questions of law and
fact. If the evidence be irrelevant to the fact insisted upon, or
such as cannot fairly warrant a jury in presuming it, the court would
err in instructing them that they are at liberty to presume it."
Bank of United States v. Corcoran, 2 Peters, 133.
" Ignorance has sometimes, in courts of equity, been held to
afford an answer to averred releases of demands.
" The desertion of a right, it'has been judicially observed, always supposes a previous knowledge of it.
" It is absurd to say, that a man has relinquished a right of which
he is not aware."
.
Mathews on Pres. 17, 18 ; Sel. Ch. Cases, 11 ; 2Peere Wins.
730 ; per Sir Win. Grant, 2 Mer. 362.
Cases upon Presumptive Evidence.
Beedle v. Beard et al., in 4th Ja. 1 (1627), 12 Coke, 5.
In 3ist Ed. 1 (1303), the king being seized'of the manor of
Kimbolton, to which the advowson of th' church was appendant,
granted said manor, with the appurtenances, to Humphrey. de Bohun, Earl of Hereford, in tail general. Humphrey de Bohun, the
issue in tail, by his deed, in the 40th Ed. 3 (1367), grainted the
said advowson, then full of an incumbent, to the prior of Stonely
and his successors ; and at the next avoidance they held it in proprio usus; and upon this appropriation made concurrentibus iis quere
in jure roquirunter. After the death of the incumbent, the said
prior and his successors held the said church appiopriate, until the
issolution of the monastery. ' In 27th Hen. 8 (1530), the said
manor descended to Edw., Duke of Buckingham, as issue to said
estate tail. The reversion descended to Henry VIII. The Duke,
in 13th" Hen. 8; was attaint of high treason. In 14th Hen. 8,
the king granted said manor, &c., with all advowsons appendant, to Richard Wingfield, and the heirs male- of his body. In
16th Hen. 8, it was enacted by parliament, that the Duke shall
forfeit all manors, &c., advowsons, &c., which he had in 4th
.Hen. 8.
The king, 37th Hen. 8, "granted and sold for money the-said
rectory, &c., of Kimbolton, as inappropriate in fee, which by
mesne conveyance came to the plaintiff for £ 12,000. In the
37 Eliz., Beard, the defendant, did obtain a presentation of the
queen by lapse, pretending that the said church was not lawfully
appropriate to the said prior of Stonely.
"1st. For this, that Humphrey, who did grant it to the said
prior, had nothing in it, for that it did not pass to his ancestor by
these words, ,Manoriumcum pertinentibus.';

604

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

In the case, the advowson was bought and paid for in 1303;
was in the possession of the first taker, Earl of Hereford, until
1367, sixty-four years. It was then granted to a corporation, the
prior of Stonely, in whose possession it remained until the dissolution of the monasteries, in the reign of Henry VIII., 1530,
one hundred and sixty-three' years more. It descended to the
-Duke of Buckingham, upon his attainder was fodeited to the
crowif, and Henry VIII. granted the manor and advowson to
the plaintiff for a pecuniary considdration.
The action was tried
in 4th Ja. 1, 1627, three hundred and twenty-four years after the
possession commenced under the first grant.
Mayor of Kingston upon Hull v. Homer, Cowper 102, in 1774.
The declaration stated the right of the plaintiff, as mayor, to
certain water-bailiff dues, for certain goods imported into Kingston.
In support of the title, the plaintiff produced,
1. An entry upon the corporatiun books, entitled "1A particular note of all such duties, &c., as by the water-bailiffs are to
be received for the use of the mayor and burgesses of Kingston
upon Hull, according to the order prescribed and set down in the
year 1441, and continued- and put in use from that time to the
present days 1st April, 1575."
In this list were included the
dudes in question.
2. An order of the corporation,. in the 13th Eliz., requiring
the water-bailiff to keep these duties separate, &c.
Then followed a particular account 6f the receipt of these duties
from 1545 to 1646, from 1648 to 1678, of persons who had rented
the office of water-bailiff; also an account of dues for three years
in 1726; and the testimony of persons who had paid the dues from
1734 ; together with an estimate of repairs by the corporation to
the amount of £ 15,000.
The defence was, that the earliest book of the corporation was
the 19th Ed.' 3 (1346), and the date of their charter the 27th
Ed. 1 (1299), a century'subsequent to the time of legal memory,
Rich.1, 1199.
"That the title, if any, to the duties in question could be supported only by prescription or charter. That the first did not
exist, they being a corporation within legal memory. That the
charter authorized the erection of the port, but granted no duties.
To thit it was answered, that a usage of three hundred years
was a sufficient ground to presume a grant of the duties, in consideration of the repairs, which it was in proof the corporation had
constantly done from 1441 to the bringing the action.
Lord Mansfield said, there were two grounds to show that the
evidence was sufficient to go to the jury :1. That there existed a port, 'With duties belonging to the king,
previous tb the charter of 5th Rich. 2. Consequently, a grant by
Rich. 2 of the port would carry the duties along with it.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

605

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

2. If this charter erected a new port, the king could not create
dtities. But that there might be some charter from the king
creating and giving these duties, upon a ground which would support them in point of law, namely, upon the consideration of repairs, and the general advantage to be derived to the public from
its being properly kept up.
The question that arises upon it is, " Whether, upon the evidence, it was properly left to the jury to presume such grant between 1382 (date of charter) and 1441" (time of first collecting
the duties). p. 106.
Lord Mansfield (p. 108). "A jury is concluded, by the statute
of limitations, as a bar. So, in the case of prescription, if it -be
time out of mind, a jury is bound to conclude the right from that
prescription, if there could be a legal commencement of the right."
Any written evidence, showing a time when the claim did not exist.
is an answer to prescription. p. 109.
" But length of time, used merely by way of evidence, may be
left to a jury to be credited or not, and to draw their inference one
way or the other, according to circumstances." p. 109.
" In questions of this kind, length of time goes a great way ; but
there is no positive rule which says, that a hundred and fifyryears'
possession, or any other length of time within memory,- is a sufficient ground to presume a charter."
p. 110.
The case of Johnson & Humphrey v. Ireland, 11 Eist, 279,
presented the question, whether "the enfranchisement of copyhold
may, upon proper evidence, be presumed even against the house."
The evidence offered and rejected by Heath was an entry, in the
parliamentary survey, of sixpence rent against these premises for
a hundred and sixty years, in the column of freehold, instead of six
shillings and sixpence, in the column of copyhold.
The court admitted the evidence, observing that there were persons, between 1636 and 1649, competent to make the enfranchisement, "1the king having continued his functions the greater part of
the time."
p. 283.
Fenwick v. Reed, 5 Barn. & Aid. 228, in 1821. In this case,
Reed, the defendant, took possession of the estates of the plaintiff,
in 1750, under an agreement to remain in possession until the debts
were satisfied out of the rents and profits. In 1801, a suit in
chancery was instituted by the plaintiff. Much evidence was offered on both sides. Bayley, Justice, told the jury, "that the real
question was, whether tjiey believed that a conveyance had actually

taken place."
The court approved of this direction, and said, - In cases where
the original possession cannot be accounted for, and would be unlawful unless there had been a grant, the case may be different.
Here the original possession is accounted for, and is consistent with
the fact of there having been no conveyance. As the defendant's
yy*

606

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

ancestors had originally a lawful possession, it was- incumbent on
them to give stronger evidence of a conveyande.11
Abbott, Chief Justice, also says, - "In my- opinion, presumptions of grants and conveyatices have -already gone to too great
lengths, and I am not dispQsed to extend them farther."
Bayley said, -"
The question for the jury was a mere question
of fact, whether there had been such a conveyance. The deeds of
1747 and 1752 were both produced, and if there had been a conveyance, it would probably have been produced also. No draft of
it, or abstract referrngto it, was produced. A conveyance of tbis
sort was not likely to have been lost, if it ever existed."
The case of Howson v. Waterton, 3 Barn; & Ald. 150 (1819),
was a conveyance of copyhold lands (in 174% by surrender in
open court) to charitable uses ; was declared void, for not complying with the provisions of 9 Geo. 2, ch. 36, which requires all
conveyances to be executed in the presence of two witnesses, to be
enrolled in chancery, and for the party to survive one year.
The court was asked to presume an enrolment.
Abbott, Chief Justice, said, -" No instance can be found, where
the court have said that an enrolment has been presumed."
Bayley said, As to presuming an enrolment, if it bad appeared that the rolls of chancery had been searched, and apbasm had been
found about that period, it might have been different." p. 142.
Best, on Presumptions; p. 149, says, -"It
has been said,
(Beanland v. Hirst, Price, 475 ; Phill. & Am. Ev. 476), that the
registration of the memorial of a deed in a register county cannot be
presumed, and that direct proof must be adduced."
But it is difficult to contend, "that there can be any matter of
fact which a jury may not presume from possession and circumstances, when that possession and circumstances are sufficiently
strong to 'convince them of its existence. The true conclusion
seems to be, that in the cage of a memorial of a deed requiring
registry, the court will not, direct them to make any artificial presumption."
Best cites 1 Greenleaf's Law Ev., Ar. 46, p. 52. "The same
presumption, says Greenleaf (p. 52), has been advised in regard
to the reconveyance of mortgages, conveyances from old to new
trustees, mesne assignments of leases, and any other species of
documentary evidence and acts in pais which are necessary for the
support of a title, in all other respects evidently just."
"It is sufficient that the party who asks for the aid of this presumption has proved a title to the beneficial ownership, and a long
possession not inconsistent therewith ; and has made it not unreasonable to believe, that the deed of convwyance, or other act essential to the title, was duly executed. Where these merits are
wanting, the jury are not advised to make the presumption."
He
cites, among numerous other authorities, Doe v. Cooke) 6 Bing.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

607'

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

174 ; 19 Serg. & Lowb. 44 ; Doe v. Reed, 5 Barn. & Ald. 232;
Livett v. Wilson, 3 Bing. 115 ; 11 Serg. & Lowb. 57; 2 Wend.
14- 37.
The case of Livett v. Wilson, 3 Bing. 115. "Defendant
pleaded a right of way, by deed subsequently lost. Plaintiff
traversed the grant. There was contradictory evidence. The
judge directed the jury, that, if upon this issue they thought defendant had exercised the right of way uninterruptedly for more than
twenty years, by virtue of a.deed, they would fi~nd for the defendant. If they thought there had been no way granted by deed, they
would find for the plaintiff."
The rule to show cause why the verdict for the plaintiff should
not be set iside was discharged.
Best, C. J., said, that -upon an uninterrupted usage of twenty
years, the jury would be authorized to presume a deed. But even
insuch a case a judge would not be justified in saying they must,
but might, find a deed.
Burrough, J., said, - " If there had been such a deed, it is not
probable the way would have been constantly in dispute."
The case of Poe v. Cooke, 6 Bing. 174 (19 Serg. & Lowb.
44), was a case of more than twenty years'possession; but the Court
of Common Pleas would not presume the surrender of a'term.
After stating the particular circumstances of ibat case, Tindall,
C. J., says :-"
No case can be put in which any presumption
has been made, except where-a title has been showh by the party
who calls for the presumption, good in substance, but wanting some
collateral matter to make it complete in point of form. Insuch
ease, where the possession is shown'to have been consistent with
the fact to be presumed, and in such cases only, has it ever been
allowed."
Sir Samuel Romilly said, in Whally v. Whally, 1 Merivale's R.
441 (1814):Length of time cannot affect this case. The
statute does not apply, and it is not easy to sle for what purpose
it is here insisted upon. Time is no bar to relief in equity, unless
it be in the excepted cases of mortgage, &c. In all other cases
it only operates by way of evidence."
The bill was filed to set aside a conveyance from an uncle to a
nephew after forty years, upon a charge of fraud and gross inadequacy of price.. The court sustained the deed, upon the ground
that it was not merely for a pecuniary consideration, but, as it
stated, was also for "love and affection" ; and consequently the
court, Lord Eldon, said nothing about time.
The opposite counsel admitted that time was not a bar, by a
strict analogy to the rule of law, but that it afforded evidence suaicieat to raise a presumption. p. 444.
McDonald v. McDonald, 1 Bligh's R., House of Lords, 1819,
was the case of a client against his agent and attorney, upon a

608

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode- Island v. Massachusetts.

transaction of twenty-five years standing. It was a case of confidence.
The Lord Chancellor Redesdale says:-" The case, therefore, by its circumstances, is taken out of the principles of presumption and prescription, which ought to protect professional
,men. On these grounds, and a fair view of the case, as a juryman, it is my opinion that the bond was not intimated."
Wood v. Veal, 5 Barn. & Aid. 454, was the ase of land under lease from 1719 to 1818 ; and as far as memory could extend
had been used by thg public, and lighted, paved, and watched, under an act of parliament, in which it was enumerated as one of the
streets of Westminster.
It was subnitted to the jury by the court-whether there had been
a dedication to the public, telling them that there might be a highway without a thoroughfare, and telling them that nothing done by
the lessee, witliut the consent of the owner 6f the fee, would give
the right of way to the public. Bayley, J., said, " Where the
consent is.l5y a person having a limited right, it can only continue
for a limited period."
Same principle. Barkee v. Richardson, 4 Barn. & Ad. 579.
Wright v. Smythies, 10 East, 409, is a decision, that no presumption of a grant enrolled can be presumed, because if it existed
it might be shown.
In Vooght v. Winch, 2 Barn. & Aid. 663, it was said,-" If
it is admitted that this was a public, navigable river, and that all his
Majesty's subjects had a right to use it, an -obstruction for twenty
years would not have the effect of preventing his Majesty's subjects from using it." p. 667.
In Mathews on Presumptions, p. 17, it is said,
That no
length of time will raise a presumption in favor of encroachmefits
on the public ; at least, no period has as yet been mentioned as
bindi.ng the community."
Carter v. Murcott, 4 Burr. 2163, and 7 East, 199, are cited:
In Stoughton et al. v. Baker, 4 Mass. R., Parsons, J., says:
" Every owner of a water-mill or dam holds it on the condition
or limitation that a sufficient passage-way is left for the fish. This
limitation, being for the benefit of the public, is not extinguished
by any inattention or neglect, for no laches can be imputed to the
government, and against it no time runs."
In Livett v. Wilson, 3 Bing. R. 115, -the court instructed the
jury, that if they thought there was no deed of the right of way,
ey must find accordingly, notwithstanding the possession.
Mathews, p. 17, says, The apparent assent of the adverse
party is, in all cases of this sort, the true and essential source of
inference; but it is evident, that, without a total disregard to fact,
this cannot be maintained where the claim has formed a constant
source of contest."
--

-

"

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

609

Rhode Island. v. Massachusetts.

See Mathews, 19, also, as to a body of creditors, under an assignment to trustees for their benefit, being also an answer to lapse of
time, such persons, not being expected, in their collective capacity,
to use the same diligence us individuils. 2 Ves. 740 ; 12 Ves.
136, 158.
Piatt v. Vattier et al., 9 Peters, 416, 405 (1835), was a case
of clear adverse possession forthirty years, without a claim even;
And we
or the shadow of an excuse. The court say, p 416, are of opinion that the lapse of time-is, upon the principles of a
court of equity, a clear bar to the present suit, independently of
the statute. There has been a clear adverse possession of thirty
years, without the acknowledgment of any equity or trust estate
in Bartel ; and no circumstances are stated in the bill, or shown in
evidence, which overcome the decisive influence of such an adverse
possession." Per Story, 3.
Miller v. Mclntire, 6 Peters, 61, 62 (1832), was the common
case of a bill in a court of equity, where the statute of limitation
was applied by analogy, and not where time was used as evidence.
Points of the Respondents.
The complainant's case proceeds upon two propositions ; first,
that the charter of Massachusetts of March, 1628, intended to
trace as her southern boundary a line three miles south of.what is
now the main stream of what is now called Charles River;-second,
that therefore the complainant has the right to have the same line
of boundary decreed at this time, without regard to any thing which
has taken place since the date of the charter.
Both these.propositions the respondents controvert. And, first,
they contend, that the charter intended to trace, as their southern
boundary, a line three miles south f all the waters of the Charles,
as a geographicaltbhole ; three miles south of. i~s basin or valley,
and of the sources and contributory streams which feed and premerve-it.
To enable the court to determine between these two constructions, they will contend, that it is competent to advert to a great
body of extrinsic circumstances and evidence, the character, situation, age, and objects of the parties, their knowledge or ignorance
of the localities, thd existence or non-existence of distinctive names
of contributory streams, and, above all, to the contemporary exposition of the instrument afforded by the acts of parties in the age of
the charter and subsequently.
And upon this point they maintain the position, that as the language of the charter, " three miles south of Charles River, and
any and every part thereof," is vague, general, and flexible, such
extrinsic evidence as is above indicated may be resorted to in order
.to ascertain the sense in which the parties used it ; that even. if the
language prima frohte bears a particular legal sense, it may be
77
VOL. IV.

610

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

shown to have been used in a different one ; that this might be
done, even if the grant was recent, and between individuals ; and
that it may be done a fortiori multo when the instrument is ancient
and is the charter of a State.
In support ,of this proposition of the law of evidence will be
cited Greenleaf's Ev. §§ 280, 286-288, 290, 295 ; 3 Cowen's
Phillips, 1362, 1389 ; 6 Pick. 63 ; 16 Johns. R. 14 ; 16 Wend.
663 ; 6 Mass. R. 435 ; 13 Pick. 261 ; 2 New Hamp. R. 369 ;
1 M. & K. 571 ; 6 Sim. 54 ; 3 Cowen's Phillips, 1403- 1405 ;
1 Mason, 10, 12 ; 1 Mood. & Malk. 300 ; 19 Johns. R. 313 ; 1
Bing. 445 ; SCamp. 16 ; 1 Conn. & Lawson, 223-225 ; 3 Barn.
& Adolph. 728.
These cases show that the terms in this charter are so far vague
and flexible, that even if they legally import the complainant's cQnstruction, it may be proved that a different one was intended. 7
Sim. 310 ; 3 Atk. 576. See, too, 16 Peters, 534.; 2 Inst. 282;
2 Brod. & Bing. 403.
Proceeding, then, to discuss the question of the original meaning of the charter, under a view of all the surrounding circumstan-ces, the respondents will maintain, 1. That the burden of proof is upon the complainants ; and that,
being out of possession, never having been in possession, and
presenting the question after a lapse of more than two centuries,
they should be holden to make their construction clear to judicial
certainty .; 13 Pick. 77 ; 2 Brod. & Bing. 403.
2. That the charter is to be construed most liberally in favor of
the grantee, because it was a grant from a monopolist to the people
of Massachusetts of that and of all generations. 1 Bancroft's History, 292, 293, 351-354 ; 11 Peters, 544 ; 7 Pick. 487.
3. That there is no circumstance or consideration in aid of the
complainant's interpretation, beyond the words themselves ; that
they have never had possession under their interpretation ; that
there is no proof that the streams and fountains south of what is
now the main stream of what is now Charles River have not alwaysbeen reputed parts of Charles River; and that there is proof
that anciently they were so reputed. See depositions of Metcalf,
Cowell, Ware, and Mann, in papers put into the case by Massachusetts, pp. 30 - 32 ; 1.,Douglass's Summ. 415, 463.
4. That there is no judicial evidence that the words themselves,
in the age of the date of this charter, used-by such parties, in such
an instrument, even prim&fronte, bore the sense contended for
by the complainants ; that they do not obviously import that sense ;
and that, in the absence of other evidence, the court would not,
against d' possession of two centuries, even primafacie, so construe them.
And, e contra, in aid of the respondent's interpretation, they
will contend, -

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

611

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

1. That presumption favors it, arising from long possession.
2. That if the words may bear two senses, that which is most

beneficial to the grantee, the settler, and colonist will be -taken,
rather than that most beneficial to the monopolist grantor.
3. That- the words themselves more obviously and naturally
import the sense claimed by the remonstrance.
4. That their construction imputes the more probable, reasonable, and usual conduct to these parties, since, under the complainant's construction, the boundary would be a fluctuating and-uncertain one, varying with reputation ; and would'divide a river between
the States, giving the main stream to one and the sources and confluent waters to the other, thus promoting strife. Whereas the
obvious design of this charter was to give the whole river to Massachusetts. 1 Howard, 186.
5. That the whole question is settled by the contemporaneons
exposition; that Massachusetts, from the planting of the colony,
took an open and notorious possession under, according to, and in
enforcement of her present doctrine of interpretation, going more
than three miles south of what is now the main stream of what is,
now Charles River ; and that during all the period properly denominated contemporary, and down to, the year 1750, neither the
crown, nor Plymouth, Rhode Island, nor Connecticut, objected to
that interpretation, but on the contrary expressly and repeatedly assented to it ; Plymouth in 1638 and 1664, Rhode Island in 1711
and 1718, and Connecticut in 1713. And this conduct of Massachusetts, in assertion of her principle of interpretation, and this contemporary assent of all others adversely interested, constitute a
body of circumstantial evidence in favor of the Massachusetts interpretation, which would be decisive of the cause on that point
alone.
To show, 1. That Massachusetts took and maintained a possession from the earliest period under her present doctrine of construction will be cited, -Bill, 29, 30, 34, 35 ; Evidence of R. I. 47,
56, 63, 104 ; Borden's Evidence, 3 ; 1 Winthrop's Journal, 284 ;
1 Hutch. 108 ; 1. Trumb. 185, 186, 401, 402 ; Connecticut Memorial, 4, 8 ; Answer, 5 ; Ev. of R. I. 53, 90, 101, 104, 105,
li, 119, 121 ; 1 Hutch. 208 ; Mass. Rep of 1791, p. 3 ; Mass.
Ev. 22.
2. To show assent of Plymouth, Connecticut, and Rhode Island. 1. Plymouth, - I nhit. 284 ; 1 Hutch. 208 ; 1 Doug. 401 ;
Mass. Rep. 1791, p. 3. 2. Of Connecticut, - Ev. of R. I. 89,
121, and Connect. Memorial, 4. 3. Rhode Island) -Mass. Ev.
22 ; R. I. Ev. 56, 61.
3. To show that Massachusetts would not have asserted such a
possession, on such a doctrine of interpretation, unless she had believed it sound, and that she knew the true meaning of her charter,
see 1 Met. 388 ; I- Bancroft, 439, 440, 474, 476 ; 1 Hutch. 229,

612

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

249-251 ; 1 Belknap, 106, 107, 113, 115, 116; Minot, 38,
.43 ; Brad. Hist. of Mass. 94, 5 ; R. I. Ev. 46 ; 2 Doug. 92.
4. That Connecticut assented with full knowledge of localities.
Conn. Mem. 3, 4, 5, 7 ; R. I. Ev. 104, 121.
If the court should be of opinion that the complainant's interpretation is established to judicial certainty, still the respondents contend, that, by reason of matter ex post facto, the bill cannot be
maintained, 1. The complainant's charter bounds Rhode Island, not on the
charter line of Massachusetts, but on her actual occupation at
the time, Which extended south to the present line. 14 Peters,
.247.
2. By the Declaration of Independence the then existing boundary-lines of the States became the true lines, without regard to their
historical origin, and those lines are unalterable by any jurisdiction.
12 Peters, 681.
3. That it is not competent for the complainants to bring the
matter of this boundary into contestation in a court of equity, by
reason of. their prolonged and gross laches. 1 Story's Eq. 73
(§ 64, a) ; 1 Howard, 1.68, 193 ; 2 Story's Eq. §§ 1520, 1522 ; 2
Story's R. 215 ; Bell v. Sanborn, 8 Clark & Fin. 650 ; I Story's
R. 215 ;' 13 Pick. 393 ; 9 Peters, 417 ; 5 Johns. Ch. R. 550.
They are bared by time. 7 Paige, 197 ; 6 Peters, 61 ; 2 Jac. &
Walk. 191 ; 2 Molloy, 157 ; 12 Eng. Ch. R. ; 2 Scb. & Lef.
636.
4. That the respondents have a perfect and indefeasible title to
soil and jurisdiction up to the existing lin&, by prescription, a title
resting on a possession of more than a century, the highest and
most sacred of the titles of nations. 14 Peters, 260, 261.
5. That the existing line has been conclusively established by
accord, compromise, award, and treaty ; by the deliberate agreements of agents, arbitrators, or ministers plenipotentiary of the complainants, whose acts were subsequently expressly and by implication ratified by the complainants themselves, as a government.
And hereunder the respondents will contend, 1. That, in 1711, and again in 1718, commissioners were appointed by Rhode Island and Massachusetts, with full powers to
determine and settle, by compromise or ascertainment, the line of
boundary ; and that they did agree and establish the now existing
line as the boundary. R.I. Ev. 53, and id. seq.
2. That, in making this determination of tht line, the commissioners of Rhode Island had full knowledge of all material facts ;
and that they were uninfluenced by any representations of the oommissioners of Massachusetts ; and that, if this be so, the case is
concluded. 14 Peters, 260. And in support of this position, the
respondents will rely on the want of proof of the* complainants to
shpw such mistake or misrepresentation, on the legal presumption

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

613

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

Against it, on the probabilities, and on the direct and circumstantial
evidence in the case.
1. That the presumptions are against it appears, because to have
been ignorant of material facts would manifest a gross neglect of
official duty ; and this is never presumed. Greenleaf, § 40,,p. 47 ;
2 Cow. Phill. 296 ; 12 Wheat. 69 ; 3 East, 199 ; 19 Johns. R.
347; 11 Wheat. 74.
2. Mistake of law alone is no ground of relief. 12 Peters, 32.
That they must have known the localities. Mass. Ev. 22;
R. I. Ev. 52, and id. seq. 55, 57.
3. That in the absence of fraud and misrepresentation of the
commissioners of Massacliusetts, mistake of facts by the commissioners of Rhode Island would be no ground of relief against the
agreements ; and that there is no proof -of such fraud or misrepresentation. 14 Peters, 280; 1 Story's Eq. §§ 146-151 ; 2 Wheat.
178 ; 11 Wheat. 59 ; 11 MIerlin, 70 ; 6 Toullier, 62 ; 4 Johns.
R. 566 ; 9 Heineccius, 101 ; 9 Dowl. & Ryl. 731 ; I Story's
Eq. § 1456 ; 14 Peters, 276; 6 Pick. 154.
4. That the votes of the Rhode Island Assembly in 1711, 1718,
1719, and 1749 (in Rhode Island Evidence), and her long
acquiescence, prove or work a ratification of the acts of her commissioners. That mere silence and inaction alone, so long continued, Would prove or work it ; but these are unequivocal acts.
Story on Agency, §§ 253, 255, 256.
5. That, to avoid the operation of those votes and acts, it is
not legally competent to aver that the Assembly and government
of Rhode Island were ignorant of the localities or other facts ; and
that, if it were competent to make that averment, it is disproved by
all the presumptions, and direct and circumstantial evidence. 2
Cow. Phill. 288 ; 12 Wheat. 70, 76 ; Ang. and Ames on Corp.
175 ; 11 Peters, 603; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 129. See,
too, the cases supra to the point that official duty is presumed to
be done.
6. That if the existing line is to be deserted, and a new one run
according to the true sense of thercharter, as an open question, it
must be removed far south of its present place. Ans. 6 and 7.
-

In illustration of the points stated above on the part of the complainant, AIr. Randolph-occupied three days in referring to and
reading ancient grants and documents and other papers.

.Mr. Choate confined himself to that branch of the argument resulting from the two following points, viz. :1. The true interpretation of the charter.
2. The acts of 1713, 1718, &c.
The skeleton of ,jr. Webster's argument was this.
The case of Rhode Island rests on two propositions :VOL. IV.

zz

614"

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Islaiid v. Massachusetts.

1. That the disputed territory belongs to her, according to the
true construction of the original charters.
2. That she has done nothing to abandon, surrender, or yield
up her original right to the territory; or to close inquiry into those
original rights.
Against these, we maintain four propositions.'
1. That the territory belongs to Massachusetts, according to
the just interpretation of her original charter, and that no subsequent acts -of the British crown or courts of law, nor any acts of
her own, have impaired or lessened her right in this respect.
2. That the line up to which she now possesses has been
seated and established by fair and explicit agreements between the
two parties, executed without misrepresentation or mistake, and
with equal means of knowledge on both sides ; and that she has
held possession accordingly, from the dates of those agreements.
3. That if all this were otherwise, Massachusetts is entitled,
by prescription and equitable limitation, to hold to the limits of her
present possession.
14. That Rhode Island, by her own neglect or laches, is precluded from asserting her claim to the disputed territory, if she
ever had such claim, or from opening the question for discussion
now.
Mr. Whipple, in reply and conclusion.
The case natuially divides itself into three separate 4nd independent questions.
1. Did the disputed territory belong to Rhode Island by virtue
of the charter of 1691, commonly called the Province charter ?
2. If 'the court should decide that question in the affirmative,
the niext question will be, Has Rhode Island transferred a portion
of that territory by the contracts of 1710-1718 ?
3. If the rights of Rhode Island were not affected by those contracts, then' the third and only remaining question will be, Are they
impaired, or in any way affected, by time ?
I. Did the Province charter of 1691 confer this territory upon
Rhode Island ? . The counsel for Massachusetts very correctly
commence their arguments with the propositions, that inasmuch as
Rhode Island has admitted this territory to be the territory of
Massachusetts. by the contracts of 1710-1718, and has suffered
Massachusetts to remain in possession from 1710 down to the
preseit time, that it is incumbent upon Rhode Island, in order to.
counteract these adverse -influences, to establish a title under the
charter so clear, that no two minds 6an possibly differ concerning it.
By this test we are willing to stand or to fall. The title of
Rhode Island under the charter is so clear that no two minds can
differ about it. 'Hardly an attempt has as yet been made to impeach it. The.very statement of the question settles it.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

615

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

The charter of 1628 .describes the territory of Massachusetts-as
lying between a line "three miles north of the Merrimack River
and of any and every part thereof," on the north, and a line
" three' miles south of Charles River, and of any and every part
thereof, on the south." The lines thus limited on the north and
south were to be east and west lines, parallel to each other. The
southern line of Massachusetts, by the subsequent charter of Rhode
Island, in 1663, is constituted the northern line of Rhode Island..
We contend that these words, yielding to them their obvious
and natural import, admit of no doubt. Three miles south of
Charles River, and of any and every part thereof, is no more thaxi
three miles south of Charles River, and of any and every part of
Charles River. These latter words were intended to embrace,all
the southern curves of the river.. Rhode Island ,contends that the
northern line of Massachusetts was intended to be three miles from
the Merrimack proper, or the main stream, and the southern line
three iniles from the most southerly, part of the main stream of
Charles River ; that this -construction is imperiously called for
by the natural and nbvious import of the words, and by the contemporaneous construct. a of all the parties, grantors and grantees, the
crown and all the adjacent colonies, including Massachusetts, from
1622 down to 1710.
1. What is the obvious meaning conveyed by the words "three
miles south of Charles River" ? Do they comprehend' a tributary stream, the head of which may be ten or fifty miles south of
the Charles? Do the words "three miles west of the Mississippi
River," mean three miles west of the sources of its tributary, the
Missouri ? Would a grant of territory (either between nations or
individuals), ten mdiles north of the Ohio River, or any part there,of, include all the territory two hundred miles northward, because
the Wabash, its principal tributary, extended that distance north ?
Why have different names been assigned to tributary streams, in
ancient and modern times, and by all nations, savage and civilized,
if the main stream included the tributary ? Have geographers or
historians ever described Frankfort and Treves as cities upon the
Rhine, because upon streams emptying into thd Rhine ? Or have
they invariably been named as upon the Maine and the Moselle ?
Vebster defines a river to be "a large stream of water flowing in a channel toward the 'ocean, a lake, or another river. A
large stream, copious flow."
Johnson says it is- "1a land current of water bigger than a
brook."
In1642, Massachusetts surveyed a small stream running from the
south into the Charles, as and for the Charles River of the charter. At that early period, the main stream had acquired the name
of Charles River, far to the westward of its junction with the
brook. But the surveyors of Massachusetts called the brook

616

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

Charles River, and mapped it as Charles River,-as the main,
stream; -omitting to lay down the river itself. As early as 1670,
this brook had acquired the name of Jack's Pasture Brook, notwithstanding the attempt of Massachusetts to impress upon it the
name of Charles River. Before 1700 it acquired the name of
Mill Brook, mills having been built upon it. All the public and
private grants of towns, corporations, and individuals referred to
the main stream as the Charles, and to this brook as Jack's Pasture Brook, or Mill Brook.
The people of Massachusetts made the same distinction between a river and a brook, one of its tributaries, that all the other
members of the human family had made from the creation of the
world down to that period. We say, therefore, that the words of
the charter admit of but one construction, and never have reeived
a different construction.
This was the construction put upon those words by the grantees
of the territory and jurisdiction, and by the grantors of the territory, the Plymouth Company, and the grantors of the 'urisdiction,
the king and council. All the parties, Massachusetts ani -the grantors of Massachusetts, so understood these words, and limited their
possessions accordingly.
The extended construction now contended for would have carried the northern line of Massachusetts to Lake Winnipiseogee,
and an east and west line from that lake would have embraced all
the State of New Hampshire, and nearly all of Maine.
But as early as December 30th, 1621, the Council of Plymouth
granted to Sir Robert Gorges a territory, ten miles by thirty, in
the northern part of Massachusetts Bay, embracing Salem, Cape
Ann, &c.
In 1628, the same Council of Plymouth granted to Massachusetts a line running east and west, three miles from the Merrimack
River.
In 1629, the king and council granted jurisdiction over the territory ceded to Massachusetts by the Plymouth Council.
In',November, 1629, the same Couneil of Plymouth granted
what is now called New Hanipshire, begfiming at the Merrimack
River.
In April, 1635, another grant was made to Mason, from said
Council, of New Hampshire, with a slight difference of boundaries.
In consequence of these subsequent girnts as far south as the Merrimack, Massachusetts, in 1636, erected her bound-house three
miles -north of the Merrimack proper, near its junction with, the
ocean. When pressed with this fact by Mason, in the trial before
king and council, in 1676, Massachusetts gave to this house 'the
name of a possession-house. But it mfist be observed that Massachusetts never claimed that her territorial rights extended more
than three miles north of the Merrimack proper. In the trial be-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

617

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

fore the king and council, in 1676, she formally renounced any
such claim. Her grant of-jurisdiction by the king, in 1629, is over
the territory (described by the same words, verbatim) that was
granted to her by the Council of Plymouth.
The ambitious pretensions of Massanhusetts to an extension of
her jurisdiction over New Hampshire and Maine, the territorial
rights to which were in Mason and Gorges, arose out of the fact,
that, after 1636, the inhabitants of New Hampshire, being destitute
of the powers of government, petitioned the General Court of
Massachusetts to be taken under their government 'and- protection.
Massachusetts refused to grant these petitions for a number of'
years. 'She had erected her bound-house three miles north of the
Merrimack proper. She had refused to take the inhabitants of the
,towns adjoining immediately north under her protectiob, because
she was aware that her jurisdiction did not reach them. In her
answer to the charge .of Mason before the king and council, in
1676, she admits "1that her whole management in those eastern
parts was not without the reiterated and earnest solicitation of most
of the people there inhabiting."
When her ambition had become fully awakened by these reiterated and earnest solicitations, she employed Woodward and
Saffrey to run her north and south lines, and after discovering that
a river comprehends all its tributary streams, they run their line on
the north so as to comprehend New Hampshire and Maine, and on
the south so as to .comprehend the territory in dispute.
This extraordinary claim resulted in a series of suits, which extended over a period of nearly a century, in every one of which
the pretensions of Massachusetts were overruled.
In 1676, a formal and protracted tIial was had between Mason
and the colony of Massachusetts, before .he two chief justices of
England, sitting for the king and council. The corffplaint of Mason and the answer of Massachusetts contain the elements of the
whol6 controversy, Afas~achusetts formally renounced any claim
to the territory more than three miles north of the Merrimack
proper.
In a subsequent trial in relation to the rights of New Hampshire,
in 1737, she filed her written claim to begin at a point three miles
north of the Merrimack, where it empties itself into the ocean,
and to follow the course of the river to the crotch, where the
union of two tributary streams form the Merrimack proper, thus
disclaiming, as she did in 1676, the whole tributary-stream principle, - thi whole principle upon which she bases her right to the
territory now claimed by Rhode Island.
We find, then, that Massachusetts herself, in 1636, and all the
grantors of Massachusetts, the Plymouth Council as to the territory, and the king and council as to jurisdiction, had given to these
wonds, " three miles from Charles River," the construction which
VOL. IV.
78
zz *

618

SUPREME 'COURT.
Rhode Islan-d v. Massachusetts.

Rhode Island now gives to them; the construction which has been
given to them among all nations .and in all ages.
A very faint attempt has been made to disturb the smoothness
of this current of authority by a resort to contemporaneous grants
of territory and jurisdiction. The result of that attempt was, that
in every case where the boundary has been "a river" simply, the
tributaries and sources of the river have been excluded. New
York, in one instrument, came east as far as Connecticut River.
She did not cqlaim east of the river proper, to the heads of the
easternmost tributary stream, but to the river itself. When the
heads and sources of rivers were intended, " to the uttermost heads
and sources thereof" were the expressions invariably employed.
After the most minute and widely extended search into-all the
grants, public and private, from 1620 down to the present, period,
not an instance has been found in which a boundary by a river has
ever been extended beyond the river itself.
We therefore say, that the construction given to these words by
the parties themselves, grantors and grantees, accords with their
obvious and ordinary meaning.
But if any additional matter could strengthen these views of this
question, it will be found in the fact, that in 1676 this construction
was given to these words by the king and council ; in 1684, the
charter of Massachusetts of 1628 was vacated and declared void,
and in 1691, another charter, called the Province charter, was
granted. The limits of Mfassaehusetts, both as to territory and
jurisdiction, were expressed by precisely the same words as those
contained in the charter of 1628. Upon these words, the grantors
had impressed a certain meaning, no matter for this purpose whether the ordinary or an extraordinary meaning. The grant of 1628,
unlike a, grant of property, was revocable in its very nature. A
grantee of jurisdiction, or other -political power, holds by no other
tenure than the discretion or caprice of the granting power. Massachusetts existed as a colony during the will and pleasure of the
king and council. She might be deprived of a part or the whole
of her jurisdiction at any moment, and with or without any sufficient
cause. It belonged to the king and council to decide arbitrarily,
if they chose, how much or how little should be granted or taken
away. It belonged to them to explain the meaning of the terms
by them employed. Their action in this respect is legislative,
rather than judicial, and the effect of their action is conclusive
upon all mdnkind. Massachusetts accepted the Province charter
of 1691 from the king and council, after the same king and council had decided, in 1676, that three miles from Charles River
meant from the main stream, or Charles River proper.
It is unimportant, therefore, what this court may deem to be the
usual and ordinary meaning of these terms. The granting party
here has explained the sense in which these terms are used in this

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

619

Rhode IslanS v. Massachusetts.

grant. The party to whom the grant was made knew that such
was the meaning of the grantor, and by that explained and understood meaning - explained by one party, and understood by the'
other -must this court be governed.
On the part of Rhode Island, therefore, we say, that we do
show, beyond the capacity of the humanrmind to doubt, that, under
the Province charter of 1691, the south line of Massachusetts and
the north line of Rhode Island was a due east and west line, being at a point three miles south of Charles River proper.
I1 In the discussion of the second point,, has Rhode Island
parted with her right by the contracts of 1710 - 1718; we must
consider it settled, that in 1710 she had the right, under the charter.
, In order to judge fairly of the effect of these contracts, we must
consider their nature and character, the main objects of the parties, their powers in relation to the subject-matter, and the terms
employed to express their intentions.
In the first place, the parties agree, that both instruments constitute but one contract.
The commissioners of Massachusetts, in their report-of 1791
(p. 59 of Bill), speak of the agreement of 1710- 1718 as a subsisting agreement. The answer of Massachusetts throughout, but
particularly in pp. 20- 23, treats both instruments as forming but
one contract, the,agreement of 1718 being in addition, and not a
substitute, to the agreement of 1710. Nor is it contended in the
argument, that the agreement of 1718 was to take the place of
that of 1710.
In the next place,.the sole object of the parties was to ascertain
the true charter line. From 1705 to 1710, four acts were passed
by Rhode Island, appointing commissioners to settle the line according to the charter. Massachusetts and Rhode Island were
colonies of the mother country, and -both were fully aware that
Rhode Island possessed no power to transfer any portion of her
territory to Massachusetts. There was an incurable incapacity in
Rhode Island to sell, and in Massachusetts to.purchase, any portion
of Rhode Island territory. Neither possessing the power to sell
or to purchase territory, the law will presume that neither had any
such object in view. It is not pretended that any consideration
was paid to Rhode Island. It must, therefore, be taken as the
sole object of the meeting of the commissioners in 1710, to find
the dividing line, according to the charter of 1691. The contracts themselves express this as their object, in the most explicit
manner. They agree, "1that the stake set up by Woodward and
Saffrey in 1642, being three miles from Charles River, according
to charter, be allowed, on both sides, as the commencement of the
line," &c. This line was admitted by the Rhode Island commissioners to be three miles from Charles River, upon the authority
of a map of Woodward and Saffrey, made in 1642, as the con-

620

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

tract states, "now shown forth to us, and remaining upon record in
the Massachusetts government."
These commissioners were Gbvernor Dudley and Governor Jenckes. They did not go upon the
land, but met at the house of Dudley, in Roxbury, in midwinter,
fifeen miles from the localities, referred to in the map. If they
had been upon the premises, there must have been a surveyor appointed, and the report would have fmentioned his name. This
map states that the station was three miles from Charles River, according to charter, whereas it is three miles from the head of Jack's
Pasture Brook, that brook being called on the map Charles River.
By the map of these sworn surveyors, it appears that the station
adopted by the commissioners was three miles from Charles River,
according to the charter. In point of fact, it was seven miles and
upwards. This map was produced by Dudley from the Massachusetts records. What it represents he represented. Jenckes
confided in the integrity of this map, and admitted that the startingpoint was three miles from Charles River, according to the charter.
In point of fact, it was over seven. In point of fact, the Rhode
Island commissioner admitted that over four miles of Rhode Island
territory belonged to Massachusetts. And this admission was
madeupon a false representation, through the medium of false papers. This map was the work of 1642, based upon the principle
asserted by Massachusetts, and exploded by king and council in
1676, and explicitly renounced by Massachusetts in 1676, and
subsequently in 1737.
We have attempted to show, that it was no part of the intention
of the parties to transfer acknowledged territory from one to the
other, neither possessing the requisite power, but that the only object was to ascertain the line called for by the charter. Rhode
Island admitted this line to be the true charter line, upon a false
representation. Is she bound by it legally or equitably?
It being three miles, according to charter. Was not that fact, .
it being three miles, the basis of the contract ? Because it is
three miles, if, it is three miles, as this map states, we agree to run
the line such a course to Connecticut River. Suppose it turns out
thatone or both parties were mistaken, that they began at a station
seven miles from th6 river instead of three, is not the admission
void, on the ground of mistake ? If the parties had iAtended to
commence at the Woodward and Saffrey station, without regard to
its distance from the river, without regard to its conformity to the
charter, why were those words inserted in the contract ? If they
had intended to bind their respective States absolutely, whether
the station was three miles or ten miles, why did they insert those
words in the contract ? Jenckes did not know whether the map
was correct or not. He trusted solely to its truthfulness. But in
case of error, he did not mean to be bound. He says, "it being
three miles, according to charter. This is my reason for agreeing

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

621

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

to it." But if the admission-is taken to be absolute, and not conditional, then these words are entirely without a meaning. They
were inserted as the basis of the contract, or they are surplusage.
Allen v. Hammond, 11 Peters's Rep. 71 ; 1 Story's Equity,
143, b. Massachusetts herself has claimed the disputed territory
from 1710 to the present day, not as Rhode Island territory, ceded
to her by the contract, but as Massachusetts territory, under the
Iassachusetts charter, admitted to be such by the contracts.
Page 4 of defendant's plea of 1840 ;-Answer, pages 6 - 10.
it is a general principle, that where a contract is entered into for
the purpose of executing the provisions of a prior instrument, by
which the rights of the parties are settled, and the subordinate contract declares that it is made in pursuance of the pri6r instrument,
that any departure from that instrument is presumed to be by mistake. A marriage settlement, declared to be in pursuance of the
marriage articles, is void so far as it departs from the articles.
Atherly on Marriage)Settlements.
In case of a post-nuptial settlement, it is void, though it does
not say that it was in pursuance of the articles, because, after the
marriage is consummated, the parties have no power to depart from
the articles.
This case combines three elements of mistake, either of which
is sufficient to invalidate the contract.
1. The contract declares that it was in pursuance of the charter.
2. The parties had no power to depart from the charter.
3. It was made upon a misrepresenlation of a material fact.
This is one answer to the effect of the contracts.
Massachusetts attempts to support them, upon the ground that
the right under the charter was doubtful ; that Massachusetts
claimed under the tributary-stream principle still farther south ;
that Rhode Island claimed to Charles River proper, and that, with
a knowledge of all the localities, with a knowledge that the map of
Woodward and Saffrey was drawn from a tributary stream, the
Rhode Island commissioners agreed to the Woodward and Saffrey
station.
To this we give various answers.
1. That the right under the charter was not doubtful, but clear
and conclusive. The charter gives the line three miles from a
fixed and permanent object.
2. There is not a tittle of proof, that the Rhode Island commissioners either knew the localities, or that they knew that the Woodward and Saffiey station was three miles from a tributary stream.
On the contrary, all the proof is the bther way.
The map itself represents the station to be three miles from
Charles River. The contract states it to be three miles fiom the
river, according to charter. The map calls the brook Charles River,

622

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

and omits a delineationi of Charles River entirely. Instead of laying down the river, and the brook emptying into it. it represents
the brook as the only Charles River, and the station as three miles
from that only river. The contract itself states that the persons
thereafter to be appointed to-run the line " were to attend within six
months thereafter to show the ancient line of Woodward and Saffrey, and to raise and renew the monuments.." This proves that
the parties to this agreement were not shown the localities. The
line was not run until 1718, and then the commissioners report that
they went to the station and run the line, and it does not appear
that any of them went near the river, or made any admeasurement
of its distance from the station. It was their duty to report all
their proceedings, ,and the law presumes that they performed their
du e" is another fatal objection to the ground assumed in argument. The court is asked to presume that the commissioners from
Rhode Island knew all the localities, knew also that the Woodward
and Saffrey station was seven miles'.. 'im Charles River, and three
miles from a tributary stream. If the Rhode Island commissioner
knew those facts, it was a fraud in him to conceal them from the
legislature of Rhode Island, and to sign a contract which represented the direct reverse,-- that the station was but three miles from
Charles River according to the charter, when it wag seven miles and
contrary to the charter. The court is asked to presume that the
commissioners stated what they knew to be false. Can this be presumed ? If it were true, would it not amount to a designed fraud
upon the legislature of Rhode Island ?
It is agreed by the, answer, that the ratitication of these con-.
tracts by the legislature of Rhode Island is essential to their validity. Did the legislature of Rhode Islalid ratify a contract esr
tablishing a line three miles from a tributary stream contrary to the
charter, or three, miles from Charles River according to the charter ? If a knowledge of the secret facts, the localities, and the
true meaning of the map was essential to bind the commissioners,
was it not equally essential to bind the legislature ? The obvious
meaning of the contract is three miles from Charles River proper.
Did the legislature ratify the contract according to its'obvious and
legal meaning, or according to a meaning impressed upon it by a
knowledge of facts which it is not pretended they possessed?
But the whole groundwork of this presumption, which the court
is asked to make, that in 1710 Massachusetts claimed from the
tributary siams and not from Charles River, wholly fails ; for after
the decision of,1676, Massachusetts never did claim from a tributary stream.
In 1642, she claimed the right to decide which 'was the main
stream and which the tributary, in point of fact, and she mapped out
the brook ag the main stream, and called it Charles River.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

623 k

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

In 1710, she showed that map as and for a map of Charles River according to-charter, and not as a map of a tributary stream.
In 1750, she took depositions to prove the fact, that the brook
was Charles River proper,
In 1791, the Massachusetts commissioners say,-" The branch
now called Charles River could not have been known as Charles
River in 1710." The Rhode Island commissioners say, -I I That
the Massachusetts commissioners pointed out the brook as and for
Charles River." From 1642 down io 1791, the claim of Massachusetts rested upon the fact, that the brook was the main stream,
and the main stieam its tributary, and they impliedly admit, that if
the fact was the other way, the case was against them. Until this
trial, Massachusetts has never contended for the right to begin the
three miles from a tributary stream, but for the fact that the brook
was the main stream.
The fact, that as early as 1640 the public authorities of Massachusetts bestowed the name of Charles River upon the main stream,
far to the westward of its junction with the brook, and as early as
1670 the name of Jack's Pasture Brook upon the tributary, and
that all the boundaries of the towns and private conveyances treated
and called the one the 'main stream, the Charles River proper, and
the other the brook, is proved so clearly and decisively that it is
not even brought into dispute. The further fact is also proved,
that it is obvious to thd senses tat the one is the main stream, the
other but a tributary.
This conclusive proof rendered it necessary for the counsel to
shift the ground of defence, and to contend for thd first time during
the history of thi controversy, that Massachusetts had always
claimed from a tributary stream as such; that, in 1710, Rhode
Island knew all the localities, 'and intended to allow the validity of
that claim, although the language of the contract is precisely the reverse.
In 1749, the Rhode Island commissioners discovered the mistake. Being unable to find the Woodward and Saffrey station,,
they were obliged to go to the river and measure off the three
miles. They then discovered that the line of 1718 was seven miles,
instead-of three, from the river. They run the line to which we
now claim, erected permanent monuments upon it, gave notice of
their claim to Massachusetts, and have claimed to that line from
that day to this.
We therefore contend: -, 1. That the right to this territory un-,
der the charter is established as clear and certain. 2. That the
contracts of 1710 and 1718 were not intended to convey Rhode
Island territory to Massachusetts, neither party possessing the power
to convey or to purchase. 3. That these contracts were merely
admissions that the station was three miles, when in fact it was seven, from the river. 4. That these admissions were made upon

624

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

an obviously false statement of the facts, and are not binding in law
or in equity.
These are some of the leading views of the Rhode Island mind
upon these vital points of the case, and we have been largely encouraged that they are unanswerable, by the fact, that notwithstanding the extraordinary power of intellect arrayed against us,
they remain wholly and entirely unanswered.
Taking it for granted that what has not been answered by counsel will not be overruled by the court, we now proceed to inquire
whether the jurisdictional right of Rhode Island, secured to her by
a record of the highest and most enduring nature, has been lost
through the agency of time.
To our minds it seems a clear proposition, that if time is to exert any influence over the rights of the parties in this case, that
influence must be base'd upon principles never'as yet promulgated
in the code of any municipal or national law which has come to
our knowledge. The artificial system prevailing in the courts of
common law and equity, in England and in this country, has been
more largely inflated, and made deeper and broader encroachments
upon the domain of practical justice and common sense, than any
previous system withir the range of our learning. Yet that system, extended as it has been by ambitious book lawyers and book
judges, contains no form of action capable of bringing time into
'hostility with any one of the rights or claims of Rhode Island, in
the present case.
In the first place, the main reason why time is so prolific of presumptions against the party out of possession is founded upon the
ceaseless and untiring activity of avarice. The love of money is
the basis of all prescription, presumptions of grant, and statutes of
limitations. It is against human experience, that any man" should
allow another to receive the rents and income, and other benefits
of his property, for a series of years, claiming it as his own, and
The law presumes it
remain silent under such encroachment.
more probable that there has existed a lost grant, than that such an
anomaly should take place. It is because the man in possession
enjoys great advantages, and the man out of possession sustains
great losses, that the law so readily concludes the title to be according to the enjoymert. This reason, in many cases, if not in
all, would apply but awkwardly to jurisdiction, - a duty, and oftentimes an onerous, sometimes a dangerous, duty, which, instead of
courting, we gladly escape from, -and not, like property, an enjoyment, a benefit, indeed, the greatest of worldly blessings in th6
opinion of the mass of mankind. To forego the performance of a
duty does not impregnate, time quite so quick with a presumption
of the absence of all rights, as to forego the enjoyment, it may be,
of many thousands of dollars of income, claimed by another, enjoyed by another, with a denial of our right by another.

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

625

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

Then, again, time quiets long possessions of property upon a
principle of policy. Property passes from parent to child, it is
transmitted by will, transferred by deeds and other instruments, and
in the course of forty or fifty years it acknowledges, it may be, as
many distinct owners, many if not the most of whom took it for
granted, that the peaceable and undisturbed possessor was, the legitimate and undoubted owner. The law encourages this belief, for
otherwise no improvements would b& made. Heirs, devisees, and
ptirchasers would be unwilling to hazard large expenditures, if a
faw in a deed, .or even the entire loss of the paper title, could not
be cured by the salutary and benign influences of a long and undisputed possession. But jurisdiction is a chaster and less prolific
character. She has no heirs, or devisees, and but. here and there
a p,'rchaser. Third persons will not be discouraged from making
improvements by large expenditures of money, because in the first
place there are no third persons connected with jurisdiction, and in
the next place, jurisdiction amplifies and enlarges itself without expenditures of any kind, and the policy of the law is to restrain
rather than encourage these expensive propensities.
It must
therefore be admitted that the application of the benign influences
of time to such a subject as jurisdiction would be rather gawky,
old-maidish, and ungraceful.
But suppose we bring this subject of jurisdiction within the
range of all the principles applicable to property ; has time any ordinance, apy form of action, that can in the slightest degree affect
the rights of Rhode Island ? We say with the most entire confidence that it has not..
There are but three modes known to the courts of law or equity,
in which time exercises her ihfluences upon permanent property; 1. By statutes of limitations; !Z. By prescription; and 3. By presumptions of grants.
It is not pretended that statutes of limitations -can apply tothe
case of two states. It would be equally absurd to invoke the common law doctrine of prescription, as administered at law'or in
equity, for to this day, in England and in this country, prescription
is overthrown if the person out of possession can show that the
poss~ssion commenced at any time subsequent to the 1st of Richard the First. Best on Presumptions (47 Law" Library), 75 ;
Taylor v. Cooke, 8 Price, 650 ; 2 B1. Comm. 31 ; Fisher v.
Greaves, 3 Eagle & Younge, Tithe, C. 1100.
" The presumption of prescriptive rights, derived from enjoyment, is instantly put an end to,, where the right is shown to have
originated within the period of legal memory," that is I Rich. I

(1189).

Massachusetts was not settled until 1620, and the charter under
which she claims was granted in 1628.
In the two first modes in NWhich time operates upon title, she
VOL. xv.
79
A3

626

SUPREME

COURT.

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

acts alone, unaided by any other proof, direct or circumstantial.
If the period required by the statute of limitations has transpired, or
if the possession has been as far back as memory extends, the law
presumes that it was coeval with Richard the First, and in both
cases time alone constitutes'a legal title.
But with the exception of the case of a mortgage, and one or
two other analogous cases, time alone, unaided by circumstances,
is never sufficient for the third form of its action, by way of presuming a' grant.
In Mayqr of Kingston v. Homer, Cowper, 102, Lord Mansfield says, -! ' A jury is concluded by the statute of limitations.
So in the case of prescription, if it be time out of mind, a jury is
bound. Any evidence showi% a time when the claim did not exist is an answer to prescription." p. 109.
"But length of time, as evidence, may be left to a jury to be
credited or not, according to circumstances."
Ic There is no positive rule which says that one hundred and fifty
years, or any other length of time within memory, is a sufficient
ground to presume a charter."

The more modern authorities are all collected in Best, and the
well settled doctrine in England and in this country now is, that the
presumption of a grant is a case of circumstantial evidence, of
which time constitutes but a single link.
A jury must believe that a grant was actually made. 6 Cowen,
706 ; 3 Johns. R. 109,269 ; 1 Wash. C. C. Rep. 70 ; 2 Wend.
13-15; 3 Connect. R. 431; 11 East, 279; 5 Barn. & Ald.
228 ; 3 ibid. 150. 7 "
PreThis court, in Ricardo v. Williams, 7 Wheat. 59) say, -"
sumptions of grant can never arise where all the circumstances are
consistent with the non-existence of a grant. A/fortiori, they cannot arise when the claim is of such a nature as is at variance with
the existence of a gr4n."
The facts of this case conclusively show, that no presumption
of a grant (other than the charters and the contracts of the parties,
upon the construction of which the case depends) can for a moment
be indulged in; because, 1. From 1628 down to 1775 there was no power competent to
make a grant except the mother country. Massachusetts and
Rhode Island were colonies, and it is not denied that, up to 1775,
they were incompetent to convey territory or jurisdiction.
2. No other grant from the crown can be presumed (than the
charters of 1628, 1691)., enlarging the limits of Massachusetts, because all such -rnts are enrolled, and by the well settled law of
England an enrolment cannot be presumed without proof of a spolia-tion or hiatus in the record. In 3 Barn. & Aid. 150, Abbott,
C. J., says, -" No instance can be found, where the court have

JANUARY

TERM; 1846.

.627

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

said that an enrolment has been presumed." See, also, Best on
Presumptions, 149.
But such enlarged grant must not only have been recorded in
England, but in Massachusetts and in Rhode Island, and no such
grant would have been made without the ma-t formal notice to both
the parties to be affected. No confirmaui of the contracts of
1710 and 1718 can be presumed, for the same reasons. Such confirmation must have been upon notice, ind would have appeared
upon the records of the mother country and both the colonies interested.
III. Anyadditional grant from the mother country, or from Rhode
Island, after 1775, is not only inconsistent with the circumstances
of the case, but at war with its whole history from 1710 to the present time. Because any grant prior to 1775, or any confirmation
of the contracts of 171"0 and 1718, would have been enrolled in the
mother country, and upon the records of both Massachusetts hnd
Rhode Island, and any grant by Rhode Island since 1775, or confirmation of the contracts of 1710 and 1718, must have been recorded in
Massachusetts and Rhode Island. Some human hands must have
touched these grants or confirmations, and some human eyes must
have seen them, and when lost from all three of their beds of repose,
a hiatus, or lost stick, must have appeared upon the record-books.
How is the fact? The mistake in the admissions of the Rhode
Island commissioners (we omit to call it an imposition) was'not discovered until 1748. From that time down to 1825, scarcely a
year has elapsed during which comimissioners from both the States
have not been appointed, or continued under former appointments,
for the purpose of settlipg this long-pending dispute. Frequent
meetings have been had. All their'eonversations, arguments, and
claims have been in writing, and reports of those conversations
made to the respective legislatures of. the two States. From the
first to the last, *no pretence has been made of, any hiatus in the
records in England, or in either tf the two States. Not a syllable
has been lisped *ofany other title than the charters of 1628 and
1691. From first to last, the claim of Massachusetts has been,
and now is, that the territory was hers by charter, that the contracts
of 1710 and 1718 conceded the territory as the chartered right of
Massachusetts.
It is admitted, it is made the sole foundation of the opposite a;gument, that, as long ago as 1642, Massachusetts surveyed this ter.
itory, and took possession up to the Woodward and Saffrey line,
by virtue of the charter, that she has occupied and claimed it from
that time down to the present by virtue of the charter. All this is
irreconcilalle with any other title. Besides, during the period from
1748 down to 1825, neither party, in their various and frequent
discussions, pretended that any other question existed between
them than what was the proper construction of the charter. Both

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

admitted that the whole title rested upon that instrument. Massachusetts contended that Jack's Pasture Brook was the main stream
in 1710 and 1718, though it had since become a tributary, and
"Rhode Island contended that it always had been a tributary. As
late 'as 1791, the Massachusetts commissioners, in their report,
recommended to their legislature- that that question should be referred to arbitrators. In 1750, Rhode Island run the line three
miles from Charles River, erected permanent boundaries upon it,
gave to Massachusetts .a map of that line, with notice that she
claimed to it. Here, then, Massachusetts was put upon her defence as early as 1750. Her line, four miles south .of ours, was
claimed by her as the true charter line. Ours was claimed by us as
the true charter line. From that day to this our monuments have
stood upon that line, and from that day to this our commissioners have
claimed to it. It has been a continual claim. In 1750, Massachusetts took the depositions of witnesses, in order to preserve the
evidence of her construction of the chartqr. All her evidence in
,favor of that construction. is in the case. Shp knew, then, that at
some day or other she must either concede our right by negotiation,
or surrender it under legal compulsion. All the moral reasons,
therefore, in favor 'of long possession have no application here.
She has lost none of her evidence. The depositions of all her
'witnesses taken in 1750 are now in the case. None of the legal
reasons'apply. She took possession under her charter, and therefore can set up no other title. The whole has been a subject of
constant dispute from 1750 to 1825, and therefore no presumption
of a grant from Rhode Island can arise.
Indeed, it is in vain to attempt to reason upon such a question.
It contradicts all our legal and moral instincts to suppose that any
principle ever did or ever can exist, which would sanction or even
countenance the idea that such a possession, disputed from the mo,ient it was taken to the time of filing the bill, can have any influence upon the title of either party. The law is yet to be made
which gives countenance to such gross and glaring injustice.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
We approach this case under a due sense of the' dignity of the
parties, and of the importance of the principles which it involves.
The jurisdiction, of'the court having been settled at i former
term, we have now only to ascertain and determine the boundary
in dispute. This, disconnected with the consequences which follow, is a simple question, differing little, if any, in principle from
i disputed line between individuals. It involves neither a cession
of territory, nor the exercise of a political jurisdiction. In settling
the rights of the respective parties; we do nothing more than ascertain the true boundary, and the territory up to that line on either
side necessarily falls within the proper jurisdiction.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

629

Rhode Island v. MIassadhusetts.

James the First, on the 3d of November, 4620, granted to the
Council established at Plymouth the territory on the Atlantic lying
between forty and forty-eight degrees of north latitude, extending
westward to the sea. And on the 19th of March, 1628, the Council
of Plymouth granted to Henry Roswell and others the territory
of Massachusetts, which was confirmed by Charles the First, the
4th of March, 1629. This grant was limited" to the territory
"1lying within the space of three English miles on the south part
of Charles River, or of any or every part thereof; and also all
and singular the lands and hereditaments whatsoever, lying and being within the space of three .English miles to the southward of the
southernmost part of Massachusetts Bay ; anialso all those lands
and heraditarents whatsoever, which lie ana be within the space of
three English miles to the northward of the Merrimack River, or
to the northward of any and every part thereof," extending westward the same breadth to the sea.
On the 13th of January, 1629, the Council of Plymouth granted-to the colony of Plymouth, which on the same day was sanctioned by Charles the First, "all that' part of New England, in
America aforesaid, and tract or tracts of land that lie within or between a certain rivulet or runlet there commonly called Coahasset
towards the north, and the river commonly called Narraganset
River towards the south," &c.
The Council of Plvmouth surrendered its charter to the king the
7th of June, 1635. "On the 23d of April, 1662, Charles fhe
Second, granted the territory of the colony of Connecticut,
"bounded on the east by Narraganset River, commonly called
Narraganset Bay, where the said river falleth into the sea ; and on
the-north by the line of the Massachusetts plantation," &c.
The charter of Rhode Island was granted the 8th of July, 1663,
by Charles the Second, limited on the north by the southerly line
of Massachusetts.
It thus appears that the disputed line is the common boundary
*between Massachusetts ad Rhode Island; the latter lying south
of the line, and the former north of it. The true location of this
line settles this controversy.
More than two hundred years-have elapsed since the emanation
of the Massachusetts charter, calling for this boundary ; and more
than one hundred add eighty years, since the date of the Rhode
Island charter. In looking at transactions so remote, we must, as
far as practicable, view things as they were seen and understood at
the time they transpired. There is no other test of truth and justice, which applies to the variable condition of all human concerns.
The words of the Massachusetts charter, "lying within the
space of three English miles on the south part of Charles River,
or of any or every part thereof," do not convey sc clear and definite an idea as to be susceptible of but one construction. Whether
A3*

I

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

the measurement of the three miles shall be from the body of-the
river, or from the head-waters of the streams which fall into it, are
questions which different minds may not answer in the same way.
That the tributary streams of a river, in ne sense, constitute 'a
part of it, is clear ; but whether they come within the meaning of
the charter is the matter in controversy, The early exposition of
this instrument by those who claimed under it is not to be disregarded, though it may not be conclusive.
This line is said to have been often a matter of controversy
between the Plymouth Zolony and Massachusetts, as early as
1638, and' that in that year Nathaniel Woodward took an observation upon part of Charles River, 410 60' north latitude. In
1642, the southern bounds of Massachusetts were ascertained by
the said Woodward and Solomon "Saffrey, who fixed a station
three miles south of the southernmost part of Charles River. And
in1664, a line was run by commissioners from each colony, and
their return was accepted by the General -Court of Massachusetts,
and ordered to be recorded; and it may fairly he presumed. that
the return was also accepted by Plymouth. This was a constructi9n of the charter by Massachusetts, and assented to by Plymouth,
that the three miles were to be rteasured- not from the main channel of Charles River, but from the head-waters of one of its tributaries. Grants of land were made by Massachusetts and Connecticut on their common boundary, and also towns were established,
without a strict regard to the line, which produced much contention.
To adjust these disputes, in 1702 commissioners were appointed
by the two provinces to ascertain the boundary-line. They set up
their quadrant and took their observation at, or not far from, the
distance of three miles south of the southernmost part of Charles
River, after which they took a second observation at Bissell's
house, called for in the line of Woodward and Saffrey ; and it
was found that Massachusetts -had made grants and established
towns south'bf the line. This'line was finally established by com'
missioners appointed by Massachusetts and Connecticut, in, which
they admit the correctness of the beginning at Woodward and
Saffrey's station, "1three English miles on the south of Charles
River, and every part thereof, agreeably to-the charter."
Serious difficulties occurred -between the border inhabitants of
Massachusetts and Rhode Island, on hccount of conflicting grants,
and the establishment of towns. And after much correspondence
and legislative action on the subject by the respective parties,-it
was finally agreed to appoinf commissioners to settle the line. In
October, 1710, the General Assembly of Rhode Island '.' enacted,
that whereas Major Joseph Jenks being commissionated to treat
with Governor Dudley concerning the settling the bounds between
the province of Massachusetts and this government ; that in case
Govem6r Dudley and. himself should 'not agree so as to issue the

JANUARlY TERM, 1846.

631

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

matter, then Major Jenks is hereby empowered and authotized-t&
offer and conclude on such other terms as he may judge most
proper for the interest of the qolony," &c.
The commissioners of both colonies met at Roxbury, January
19th, 1710- 11, and after stating the authority under which they
acted, and having "examined the several charters and letters,
patent relating to the line betwixt the said respective governments,
and being desirous to remove" and take away all occasions of dispute and controversy," &c., " they agree that the stake set-up by
athaniel Woodward and Solomon'- Saffrey, skilful, approved.
artists, in the year of our Lord one thousand six hundred and forty-"
two, and since that often renewed, in the latitude of forty-one
degrees and fifty-five minutes, being three English miles distant
southward from the southernmost part of the river called Charles
River, agreeable to the letters patent for the Massachusetts province, be accounted and allowed on both sides the commencement
of the line between the Massachusetts and the colony of Rhode
Island." Other matters were adjusted according to the line of
Woodward and Saffirey, which need not be referred, to. This
agreement was signed by Dudley and Jenks, and by three commissioners fi'om Massachusetts and two from Rhode Island. In
March, 1711, the Rhode Isladd legislature sanctioned this agreement, by authorizing the line to be run in pursuance thereof, and
the agreement was accepted and approved of by Massachusetts.
In 1116, and also in 1717, commissioners were appointed by
Rhode Island to run the line under the agreement at Roxbury, jointly
with commissioners from Massachusetts ; or if the latter refuse or neglect to act, then to run the line without them. On the 17th of June,
1718, the Rhode Island legislature, after stating that the commissioners had been retarded in settling the line by the agreement made
at Roxbury, &c,, -" This assembly, -taking the ]emise under
consideration, do 'hereby, enact, constitute, and appoint Major
Joseph Jenks, and others, a committee to treat and agree with
such gentlemen as are or may be appointed and commissionated,
with full power, by the General Assembly of the Province of Massachusetts Bay aforesaid, for the final settling and stating the aforesaid line between the said colonies, hereby giving and granting unto
the aforesaid Major Joseph Jenks and others, or the major part of
them, our full power kmd authority to agree and settle the aforesaid
line between the said colonies, in the best manner they can, as near
agreeable to our royal charter as in honor they can compromise the
same," &c.
The commissioners of both colonies met at Rehoboth, the 22d
of October, 1718, and under their hands and seals again agreed,
" that the stake set up by Nathaniel Woodward and Solomon
Saffrey, in the year 1642, upon Wrentham plain, be the station or
commencement to begin the line," &c. This agreement being re-

2

SUPREME

COURT.

I

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

turned on the 29th of October, 1718, was accepted by the General
Assembly of Rhode Island, and ordered to be recorded ; and it
was also accepted by 'Massachusetts. And a joint commission,
being appointed by both governments to run .the line as established,
met on the 5th of June, 1719, and" say, -"
We, the subscribers,
being of the committee appointed and empowered by the governments of the province, &c., for settling the east and west line between the said governments, by virtue of the agreement of the
major part of the said committee at the meeting at Rehoboth, on the
22d of October last past, at which time the said line was fully settled and -agreed, and by them directed to be by us run. Having
met at the stake of 4athaniel Woodward and Solomon Saffirey, on
Wrentham plain, the 12th of May, anno Domini 1719, in the morning, and computed the course of the said agreed line," &c., which
line was run by them two miles west of Allom pond, and they erected
monumens at different points. This return was approved by the
Rhode Island Asserhbly.
In October, 1748, the legislature of Rhode Island appointed
other commissioners to continue the line to the Connecticut River,
recognizing the stake set up by Woodward and Saffirey as the place
of beginning. The commissioners thus appointed having met, in
1749, twice, at Wrentham, and Massachusetts having failed to appoint commissioners to act with them, the Rhbde Island commissioners proceeded to complete the running of the line. In their report
they say, - " That we, not being able.to find any stake or other
monument which we could imagine set up by Woodward and Saffrey, but considering that the place thereof was described intheagreement mentioned in our commissien by certain invariable marks, we
did proceed as followeth, namely : we found a place where Charles
River formed a large current southerly, which place is known to
many by the name of Poppotash pond, which we took to be the
southernmost part of said river.; from the southernmost part of
which we measured three English miles south ; which three English
miles-did terminate upon a plain in a township called Wrentham,"
&c.
These are the leading facts relied on by the respoident .to establish the station of Woodward and Siafirby as the plhcae from
which the boundary-line was agreed to be run, and in fact was run.
And we are now to consider how these facts and the arguments
deduced from them are met by the complainant.
In the first place it is insisted, that the line run by Massachusetts,
in 1642, was without authority.
-There: does not appear to have been any order from the crown
to run this line, nor is it supposed to have been usual or necessary
for the crown to give such an order, where no controversy respecting the line was brought before it. The general boundary, ao
named in the charter, was run and established by the colony or

JANUARY TERM,, 1846.
Rhode Island v. Masse

683

h ustts.

colonies interested ; and where there was no dispute no further
action was required. The controversy in regard to their common boundary, between Plymouth and Massachusetts, which seems
to have existed as early as 11638, was finally adjusted by running
the line in 1664. This line was commenced at the place called the
angle tree, which is said to be about two miles south of the Woodward and Saffrey station.
When the Woodward and Saffrey station was first established,
neither Conndcticut nor Rhode Island had a political existence.
And the Plymouth colony, which in 1691 was incorporated into
Massachusetts, having then a distinct political existence and a
common boundary with Massachusetts, assented.to the line farther
south than the above station. At the time this line was run,
neither Connecticut nor Rhode Island can scarcely be said to have
had a political organization, as the charter of the former was dated
only two years before, and that of the latter one year. Massachusetts, then, in-establishing the above station-of Woodward and
Saifrey, and in running the line, does not seem to have acted precipitately, without authority, or in disregard of the rights of other
colonies.
The misconstruction of the'oharter, in going more than three
miles south of Charles River, is'earnestly insisted on by complainnt's counsel. If the words of the charter Were clear and unequivocal in this respect, there would be great forQe in this argument. It
would be decisive of this dontroversy, unless controlled by other
facts and circumstances in the case. But who can maintain that a
line to be run "three miles south of Charles River, or of any and
every part thereof," is clearly limited to three miles south of the
main channel of the river. Can the body of the river with more
accuracy of language be called a part of it, than its tributary
streams. We call that a part which is less than the whole,' when we
speak of any thing made up of parts. We do not call a limb a tree,
but it is a part of a tree ; md if a measurement is to be made from
any and every part of the tree, would its branches be disregarded.
When we speak of a river, we speak of it as a whole, whether we
refer to it above or below a certain point ; as be/fling north or
south, it is the river, in common language, and not a part of the
river. The flowing of the water in the channel of the river gives it
its name and charactdr, and these are not changed by- its length.
We speak of the Upper and Lower Mississippi, but neither the one
nor the other is called a part of the Mississippi. Had the Massachusetts charter been designed to limit the line to three miles south
of the -river, would not the language have been, "three miles south
of the most southerly bend in the river."
It would therefore seem that the charter may be construed
favorable- to the respondent. That the construction of the complainant is not a forced one is admitted ; and the conclusion natural80
VOL. IV.

634

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

ly follows, that men of equal intelligence may differ in opinion as to
the true meaning of the instrument. That Massachusetts more
than two hundred years ago construed the charter as her counsel
now construe it is clear, and the facts proved authorize the conclusion, that this construction was not, for many years, opposed by
Connecticut or Rhode Island, and at no time by Plymouth. But
the attention of the court is drawn to the northern boundary of
Massachusetts, which the charter describes as "three English
miles to the northward of the Merrimack River, or to the northward of any and every part thereof" ; which received the construction for which the complainant contends by the king and
council.
The northern boundary-line, as claimed by Massachusetts, included Maine and New Hampshire ; and it appears that Mason and
Gorges, who claimed under grants, some of which were prior in
date to that of Massachusetts, petitioned the king against the encroachments of Massachusetts on territory covered by their grants.
The answer of Massachusetts was made, and in 1677 the question
was brought before the Privy Council. The title to the land claimed
by the petitioners was disclaimed by Massachusetts ; and the king
and council held, as to the government, "that if the province of
Maine lies more northerly than three English miles from the River
Merrimack, .the Massachusetts patent gave no right to govern
there."
In 1684, the charter of Massachusetts was vacated on a scire
facias, by the judgment of the King's Bench, and a new charter
was granted in 1691, including Maine and Plymouth, but the southern boundary, as regards, the present controversy, was not changed.
The northern lboundary was again brought before the king and
council in 1740, when the decision was, "that the northern boundary of the province of Massachusetts be a similar curve line, pursuing the course of Merrimack River at three.miles distance thereof
on the north side, beginning at the Atlantic Ocean, and ending at wr
point due north of Pawtucket Falls ; and a straight line drawn from
thence due West," &c. In this decision, the call of the charter
was disregarded, on a ground that' !he tribunal creemed equitable.
From this it clearly appears, that the decision was not governed by
legal principles, but was an exerci.e of the king's prerogative ; and
by the same power was the former case determined, although the
opinion of the judges was taken, so that neither decision constitutes a
rule in other cases for the action of a court of law. In the first case,
there was a conflict of ju*risdiction, which the crown had power to
settle, upon principles of expediency, and although the decision
purports to be founded on a construction of the charter, yet other
considerations may -haveinfluenced it. The decision, however, if
not regarded as. authority in other cases, is entitled to respectful
consideration.

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

635

Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

To avoid the effect of the agreements in 1711 and 1718, by the
commissioners of both governments, in regard to the line in dispute, the complainant alleges, that its commissioners, relying upon
the representations of the. Massachusetts commissioners, and the
words of the charter, did believe that the station of Woodward
and Saffrey was within three miles of Charles River; and that the
true situation of that station was not known to the authorities and
people of Rhode Island until about the year 1750.
The fact of a want of this knowledge, after the lapse of more
than a century and a quarter, is difficult to establish. It certainly cannot be assumed against transactionis which strofigly imply,
if they do not prove, the knowledge. If the Rhode Island comrmissioners were misled in the fist agreement, as to the locality of
this station, it almost surpasses belief, that, seven years-afterwards,
the subject of the line having been discussed in Rhode Island, and
such dissatisfaction being shown by the people as to lead to a new
commission, the second commission should again be misled.
It may be a matter of doubt, whether a mistake of recent occurrence, committed by so high an agency in so responsible a duty,
could be corrected by a court of chancery. Except on the clearest proof of the mistake, it is certain there could be no relief. No
treaty has been held void, on the ground of misapprehension of the
facts, by either or both of the parties.
It appears, from the report of John Cushing, that he and others,
being a committee to unite with a committee of Rhode Island, did
meet at Wrentham, in November, 1709, agreeably to appointment,
and being shown the line run by Major-General John Leverett, in
1671, the Rhode Island committee was requested to unite with the
Massachusetts committee in renewing that lina. But they declined
doing so,, alleging that they knew the line, but could not recognize
it as the true one.
It appears,. fromr-several depositions in the case, that the station
of Woodward and Saffirey was well known in the neighbourhood, by
tradition and otherwise, by the oldest settlers at Wrentham, in the
year 1750 ; and, from Callicott's deposition in 1672, "that, thirty
years before, he was present when Woodward and Saffrey established their 9tation, measuring three miles south from a pond out of
which the principal part of the river came."
From the year 1750, repeated steps were taken by Rhode Island,
in various resolutions, and by appointing commissioners, at different times, to ascertain, and run the line in connection with commissioners to be appoinied by Massachusetts. Commissioners from
both colonies met more than once ; but they could make no arrangement changing the line, as established under the agreements in 1711
and 1718. Rhode Island alleged a mistake in her commissioners
in the place of beginning, as the ground of these efforts. That the
colonies had a right to mark out their boundaries was not de-

636

SUPREME COURT.
i
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

nied ; but it was insisted, that they had no power, without the consent of the crown', to change the limits called for intheir charters.
These controversies were kept up, as MassachuSetts alleges, by the'
border inhabitants, and others, for party effect. However this may
be, they seem "notto have subsided with the change of government.
At one time, an arrangement was made by Rhode Island to take
the subject before the king in council, but the appeal was not
In 1-746, Rhode Island obtained a decision against
effected.
Massachusetts, before the king in council, in regard to the boundary on the Narraganset Bay. This boundary was claimed by
Massachusetts, after the old colony of Plymouth was annexed to
it. Up to this time, no dissatisfaction seems to have been expressed by Rhode Island. to the Woodward and Saffrey line ; and
it is deemed unnecessary to state its acts in detail subsequently,
showing its objections, as they led to no practical result. They
can be'of no importance,, except ix so far as they may conduce to
rebut the presumption of acquiescence from the lapse of time.
From time to time, up to 1825, Rhode Island adopted resolutions,
appointed commissioners to meet those which should be appointed
by Massachusetts for the adjustment of this disputed line, but
Massachusetts adhered to the agreements.
This is a general outline of this protracted and imaportant controversy. The facts are not stated, where it did not seem to be necessary to state them ; but their effect on the case has not been
disregarded. It now only remains, by a general view, to come to
that conclusion which is authorized and required by the well established principles of law.
The c6mplain~nt's counsel rely mainly upon two grounds :
1. The misconstruction of the charter.
2. The mistake as to the true location of the Woodward and
Safrey station,
If the first be ruled against the complainant, the second must
fall as a consequence. And as regards the first ground, little need
be added to what has already been said. The charter is of doubt.
ful constructioni and may, without doing violence to its language,
be construed in favor of or against the position of the complainant.
In this view, the construction of the charter by Massachusetts, assented to by the old colony of Plymouth; many years before Connecticut or Rhode Island had a political organization, is an important fact in the case. Plymouth was interested in restricting the
line to the calls of the charter, for the line constituted the common
L.oundary between the two colonies. And as controversies had
arisen respecting this boundary, and commissioners been appointed
to settle it, the presumption is that the rights of both colonies were
understood and respected in- the establishment of the line. And
the line thus established was two miles south of Woodward and
Saffrey's station. When this, station was afterwards agreed to as

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

637

Rhode Island r. Massachusetts.

the place from which the boundary was to be run, Massachusetts
seems to have considered the change as prejudicial to her rights.
If the commissioners of Plymouth had construed the charter to
extend only three miles south of the most southerly bend of Charles
River, they could not have assented to the boundary as run. In
the alisence of-proof, the presumption is not to be drawn thatlthey
supposed the line established was only three miles south<of ther
river. Connecticut, after the lapse of many yeard, assented to the
line run from the Woodward and Saffrey station as its bounday,
and so did the complainant, in the most solemn agreements, as stated. These proceedings conduce strongly to establish a fixed construction of the charter, favorable to the respondent, unless it be
clearly made to appear that they were founded on mistake or
fraud.
Fraud is not charged, and we have only to inquire into the alleged mistake.
From'the nature of this supposed mistake, it is scarcely susceptible of proof. The words of the charter used by Massachusetts
in describing Woodward and Saffrey's station, as three miles south
of the southernmost part of Charles River, and the statements in
certain reports to the legislature of Rhode Iland, and the late survey of Simeon"Borden, constitute the facts relied on by the complainant as proving the mistake.
Whatever inaccuracy may be detected in the latitude or longitude of the station of Woodward and Saffrey, as given by them,
or in the volume of water of the streams called for, the place being identified will control other calls. Streams are often made to
change their direction by the improvements of the country, and
their volume of water is increased or diminished by the same
cause.
If the representations made by the commissioners of Mlassachusetts as to the location of Woodward and Saffrey's station, by any
plausible construction, came within the charter, there was no mistake of fact on which relief can be given. To sustain the allega-,
tion of mistake, it must be made to appear not only that the station, was not within the charter, but that the commissioners of
Rhode Island, in 1711 and 1718, who signed the agreements, be.'
lieved it to be within three miles of the river, and that they had no
knowledge of a fact, as to the true location of it, which should
have led them to make inquiry on the subject.
From the notoriety Qf Woodward and Saifrey's statidn in 1711,and from the fact that commissioners of Rhode Island met Massa,.
chusetts commissioners respecting this line, at Wrentham, in November, 1709, and professed to be well acquainted with Lever.
ett's line, as appears from the report of Cushing, it is difficult to
believe that they, at least,'were not acquainted with Wrentham
plain, and with the station there established.
VOL. IV.

B 3

63S

SUPREME COURT.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts.

This dispute is between two sovereign and independent states.
It originated in the infancy of their history, when the question in
contest was 'of little importance. And fortunately steps were early
taken to settle it, in a mode honorable and just, and one most likely to lead to a satisfactory result. There is no objection to the
joint commission in this case, as to their, authority, capacity, or
the fairness of their proceeding. An innocent mistake is all that
is alleged against their decision. And as has be6n shown, this
mistake is not clearly established, either in the construction of the
charter, or as to the location of the Woodward and Saffrey station.
But if the mistake were admitted as broadly and fully as charged
in the bill, could the court give the relief asked by the complainant.
In 1754, William Murray, then attorney-general, afterwards
Lord Mansfield, was consulted by Connecticut, whether the agreement with Massachusetts respecting their common boundary, in
1713, would be set aside by a commission appointed by the crown.
To which, Mr. Murray replied,-" I am of opinion, that, in settling
the above-mentioned boundary, the crown will not disturb the settlement by the two provinces so long ago as 1713. I apprehend his
Majesty will confirm" their agreement, which of itself is not binding
on the crown, but neither province should be suffered to litigate
such an amicable compromise of doubtful boundaries. If the matter was open, the same construction already made in the case of
Merrimack RiveD must be put upon the same words in the same
charter applied to Charles River. As to Jack's Brook, it is impossible to say whether 't is part of Charles River, without a view,
at least without an exact plan, and knowing how it has been reputed."
From the settlement referred to up to the time this opinion was
given by Mr. Murray, forty-one years only had elapsed. And if
that time was sufficient to protect that agreement, with how much
greater force does the principle apply to the agreements under conside'ration, which are protected by the lapse of more than a century and a quarter. More than two centuries have passed since
Massachusetts claimed and took possession of the territory up. to
the line established by Woodward and Saffrey. This possession
has ever since been. steadily maintained, under an assertion of
right. It would be difficult to disturb a claim thus sanctioned by
time, however unfounded it might have been in its origin.
The possession of the respondent was taken not only under a
claim of right, but that right in the most solemn form has been admitted by the complaifnant and by the other colonies interested in
opposing it. Forty years elapsed before a mistake was alleged,
and since such allegation was made nearly a century has transpired.
If in the agreements there was a departure from the strict con.
striction of the charter, the commissioners of Rhode Island acted
within their powers, for they were authorized "to agree and settle

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

639

Rhod.e Island v. Massachusetts.

the line between the said colonies in the best manner they can, as
near agreeable to the royal charter as in honor they can compromise
the same." Under this authority, can the complainait insist on
setting. aside the agreem6nts because the words of the charter were
not strictly observed ? I, is not clear that the calls of the charter
were deviated from by establishing the station of Woodward and
Saffrey. But if -in this respect there was a deviation, Rhode
Island was not the less bound5 for its commissioners were authorized to compromise the dispute. Surely this, connected with the
lapse of time, must remove all doubt as to the right of the respondent
under the agreements of 1711 and 1718. No human transactions
are unaffected by time. Its influetce is seen on all things subject
to change. And this is peculiarly the case in regard to matters
which rest in memory, and which consequently fade with the lapse
of time, and fall with the lives of individuals. For the security of
rights, whether of states or individuals, long possession under a
claim of title is protected. And there is no controversy in which
this great principle may be involved with greater justice and propriety than in a case of disputed boundary.
The State of Rhode Island, in pursuing this matter, has acted in
good faith and under a conviction of right. Possessing those ele-nents, in an eminent degree, which constitute moral and intellectual
power, it has perseveringly and ably submitted its case for a final
decision.
The bill must be dismissed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
This case came before the court in 1838, upon a motion to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction ; and that question was then
very elaborately argued at the bar, and carefully considered by the
court. Upon that argument, and upon full consideration, I came to
the conclusion that the ccrirt had not jurisdiction over the subjectmatter in controversy, and my opinion to that effect, with a very
brief statement of the principles upon which it was founded, is
reported in 12 Peters, 752 ; wherein I have intimated, that at the
final hearing of the case I should examine more fully the grounds
upon which jurisdiction was asserted in the opinion from which I
dissehted.
As the case was legally in court under ibis decision, it became my duty from time to time to take part in the interlocutory
proceedihgs which were necessary to prepare and conduct the case
to final hearing. But, after many unavoidable delays, it has reached
that point ; and we are now to determine whether Rhode Island is
in this court entitled to the relief she asks for. Entertaining upon
this subject the opinion heretofore expressed, and which has been
confirmed by subsequent reflection, I think she is not ; and that this
court have no -constitutional power to decide the question in dispute

640

SUPREME

COURT.

Hardeman et al. r. Anderson.

between the States, and consequently that the bill ought to be dismissed.
I concur, therefore, in the decree just pronounced, and as I do
not dissent from the decree, ,4 is unnecessary, to state more fully
aiy objection to the doctrines upoA
than I have heretofore don&
which jurisdiction was maintained.
Deciding the case, so far as J am concerned, upon this point, I
of course express no opinion upon thi merits of the controversy;
ana4 have not even deemed it necessary to be present at the elaborate
arguments upon the evidence which- have been made at the present term. For if Rhode Island bad proved herself to be justly
and clearly entitled to exercise sovereignty and dominion over the
territory in question, and the people who inhabit it, yet my judgment
must still havebeen, that thebill should be dismissed, upon the groupd
that this court,-under the Gonstitution of the United States, have not
the power to try such a question between States, or redress such a
wrong, even if the wrong is proved to have been done.

W.uLAx H

rnaxrm "D D. I-IAWE!A,

PLAnImrrs i
EDWARD ArDwrRsoN, DEFENDANT.

ERRoR, v.

After a case has been docketed and dismissed under the fbrty-third rule of court
And the plaintiffin error sues out another writ of error this court will, when the
case appears to require it, order a supersedeas to stay all proceedings pending the
second-writ of error.
The supersedeas is issued under the fourteenth section of the act of the 24th of September, 1783.

Tais was a writ of error from the Pircuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
At the preceding tenh of this court, namely, on the 28th of February, 1845, .Mr.Howard, on behalf of the difendant in error,
moved for leave to file a certificate that a writ of error had been
sued out, and for an order to docket and dismiss the case under the
frty-third rule of court.
This order was accordingly passed, and at the close of the term,
no record having been filed hy the plaintiffs in error, the case was
dimissed.*
At thd present term, ,Mr. Crittenden, counsel for the plaintiffs
in error, filed the following affidavit, namely :&outhernDistrictof .Missiptp.
" This day William Hardeman personally appeared before me,
commissioner, &c., for taking affidavits in civil cases, &c., and
made bath; that some time during the last summer, and many months
"UNITED STATES or AmERICA,

