JANUARY TERM, 1846.55
Maney et al. v. Porter.

Tioius MmaY, mm oTmRs, PLAINTIFFs = ERROR, v. TIONAS .
PbRTER, DEFm)ANT.
The decision of a state court upon the merits of a controversy between two partes
one of whom had sold, and the other purchased, an interest in lands which, it
was thought, could be acquired as Indian reservations under a treaty with the
United States, cannot be reviewed by this court under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act.
The party against'whom the state court decided, instead of setting up an interest
under the treaty, expressly averred that no rights had been obtained.

In such a case, t

court has no jurisdiction.

Ttus case was brought up by writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Errors and Appeals for the State of Tennessee, under the.25th
section of the Judiciary Act.
The case was this. Thomas, Maney, one of the plaintiffs in
error, on the 4th of October, 1836, gave his note to the defendant
in error, for $ 5,000, pay able eight months after date.
uit was
afterwards brought on t&is note, and judgment recovered in the
State Circuit Court, from which Maney appealed to the Supreme
Court of Errors and Appeals where 'he judgment was affirmed
against him.
He then filed his bill in the Chancery Court, aid .obtained an injunction. The defendant in error answered, and upon the hear.ing, the injunction was dissolved and the bill dismissed; and this
decree was affirmed in the Supreme Court of Errors and Appeals
against the said Maney and the other plkintiffs in error, who were
his securities in the appeal bond. It is from the last mentioned
decree that the present writ of error was brought.
In order to understand the character of the controversy in the
State court, and the points in issue between parties, it is proper
to state that by the 14th article of the treaty with- the Choctaw
Indians, made at Dancing Rabbit Creek on the, 27th of September, 1830, it was stipulated that each Choctaw head of a family,
being desirous to remain and become a citizen of the States, should
be permitted to do so by signifying his intention to the agent of the
United States within six months from the ratification of the'treaty ;
and should thereupon become entitled to a reservation of one section of 640 acres, to be bounded by sectional liues,
one half that'
quantity for each unniarried child living with him over ten years of
age, - and a quarter section for each child under ten ; to adjoin the
location of the parent. And if they resided on such, land intending
to become citizens five years after the ratification of .the treaty, a
grant in fee simple was to issue ; the reservation to include the improvement held by the head of the family at the time of the treaty,
or I portion of it.
The bill filed by Maney stated, that in December, 1835, the defendant informed him that many Indians had within the time pre-

SUPREME COURT.
Maney et al. v. Porter.

scribed signified to the agent of the government their intention to
remain under the above article of the treaty, whose names be had
neglected to register and certify'; and that in consequence of his
,neglect, the lands to which they were entitled, with the improvements, had -in. many instances been sold, and had passed into the
possession of the purchaser; and those who still retained possession of their reservation had become much alarmed ; that Gwinn
and Fisher had undertaken to secure these reservations to the Indians entitled, or to obtain for them an equivalent ; and had made
contracts by which the Indians were to give them one half (and in
some cases more), if they succeeded; that Gwinn and Fisher had
employed the defendant in error to assist them in the business ; that
he held their obligation for twenty-five sections of these claims.;
that he had no doubt of success ; that the matter had already been
before Congress, and it had been ascertained that a majority of both
Houses were in favor of it; that he was confident a law would
pass authorizing" commissioners to be appointed to investigate and
decide upon these claims, and that the reservations would be made
good to the persons entitled ; and that if Congress did not pass the
law, the rights could be enforced in the courts of justice ; that the
defendant in error represented these Indian claims as of great value,
and said that they bad been already located on good lands, which
were worth ten dollars per acre, and proposed, as a matter of
favor, to sell a portion of his interest to Maney ; and that he
(Maney), having himself no knowledge upon the subject, and relyig altogether on the statements of the defendant in'error, purchased
from him one undivided half part of his cldim to the twenty-five sections above mentioned fox $ 10,000 ; and thereupon gave two notes
of $-5,000 each for the purchase money, and received from the
defendant a covenant to convey.
The bill further stated, that for reasons therein set forth the complainant became.dissaisfled with his purchase, and thought he had
been deceived ; and in March, 1836, he applied to the defendant
to rescind it, who refused ; but that afterwards, in October, 1836,
be agreed to take back the one half of these claims ; and thereupon
the two notes before mentioned were cancelled, and the note on
which the judgment was rendered was given by Maney, and a covebant made by the defendalnt to convey, accbrding to this contract ;
"thatat the time the last mentioned agreement was made, as well as before, thie defendant had agreed that he would take baok the lands and
rescind the whole contract if the complainant desired it, in case
Congress should pass a law authorizing a commission to examine
into and decide upon these claims ; that hi; and Gwinn and'Fisher
would continue their exertions to secure the titles, and that a law
authorizing a commission to inquire into their validity would place
them beyond reasonable doubt.
The bill further states, that the law proposed was passed by Con.

JANUA RY TERM, 1846.
Maney et al. v. Porter.

gress ; but that the defendant had refused to rescind the contract.
and had not continued to give his attention to the business as le
promised ; that he had sold out the residue of his interest ; that
Gwinn and Fisher, as the complainant understood, had likewise sold
out their interest, or nearly all of it ; that none of the claims had
been secured, and the complainant did not think it probable that they
would be obtained by the assignees of the Indians ; that he had never
received any thing in land or money, and apprehended that he never
would and prayed an injunction to restrain the defendant in error
from suing out execution on the judgirent at law, and that the contract might be rescinded and set aside.
This is the substance of the bill, which is a very long one, going
into much detail, and stating conversations which Maney alleges he
held with the defendant in error, and with others, upon the subject ;
but which it is unnecessary to set but at length, as they are not material to the point upon which the case was disposed of in the Supreme Court.
The defendant put in his answer, denying and putting in issue all
the material allegations in the bill; and it was upon this bill and
answer, and the proofs taken upon the matters thus in issue, that the
decree was made upon which this writ of error is brought.
The case was argued by Mr. Brinley for the plaintiffs in error;
and by the Attorney-General, for the defendant.
As the decision of the court restdd entirely on thejquestion of
jurisdiction, all those parts of the argument which involved the merits of the case 'are omitted in the report.
•Mr. Brinley rested his argument in favor of the jurisdiction of the
court upon the proposition that the contracts of the Indians were
held to be valid because they had a right or authority.-o make them
under the State laws of 1829 and 1830'; and that the authority
exercised under those laws was repugnant to the treaty of 1830, and
to the laws of the United States ; and that the decision of the State
court was in favor of the authority thus set up.
.Mr. 0l1ason, Attorney-General, contended that the facts in this
case were not sufficient to sustain jurisdiction.
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon examining the bill in this case, it is not-easy to determine,
from the loose manner in which it is drawn; whether the complainant claimed the relief he asked for on the ground that the representations made to him by the defendant were false and fraudulent ; or
on the ground that the consideration for which the note was given
had failed, because the defendant was unable to con'vey him a title
to the Indian reservations.
It is evident, however, that the suit was not brought to uphold
VOL. Iv.

8

59

8UPREME COURT.
Erwin's Lessee v. Dundas et al.

any title-or right wich the complainant claimed under the Vhoctaw treaty, or under the law of Congress which he states to have
been passed upon the subject. For he does not ask for a conveyance of the reservations, nor of the Indian title to them. And he
does not even aver that these caims are valid, or that he has any
title to them ; but, on the contrary, charges that none of the claims
had been secured, and states that he did not think it probable that
they would' be obtained by the assignees of the Indians. And as
the case has been removed here from the decision of a state court,
we have no right to, review it unless the complainant claimed some
right under the treaty w" h the Choctaws or the act of Congress,
and the decision of the state court had been against the right, title,
or privilege specially set up by him ; and even in that case, the
power of-revision given to this court extends no further than to the
particular question thus raised and decided against the party. In
the case before us, no such title, right, or privilege was claimed by
the bill, and of course no decision was made against it in the state
court. We therefore, can exercise no jurisdiction in the case, and
are not authorized to exdmine any questions of fraud or failure of
consideration, or breach of contract, which the bill may be supposed
to present, and upon which the court of the State of Tennessee
may now decide.
Upon referring to the reports of this court, it will he seen that
the 25th section of the act of Congress of 1789, under which this
writ of error is brought, has been often the subject of examination
and comment in this court, and the construction of the section and
the practice under it well settled by many decisions. It is unnecessary to repeat here what- the court have said upon former occasions. It is very clear, that this case is not within the provisions
of the section, and the writ of error must therefore be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction.

JAxEs ERwin's LESSEE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. JAXES DU"DAZ ET AL.
Although, by the law of"Alabama, where an execution has issued during the lifetime of a defendant, but has not been actually levied, an alias or phezi may go
after his death, and the personal estate of the deceased levied upon and sold to
sansfy the judgment, yet this is not so with respect to the real estate.
By the common law, the writ offierifacias had relation back to its test, and ii the
execution was tested during the lifetime of a deceased defendant, it might be taken
out and levied upon his goods and chattels Afler his death.
But if an execution issues and bears testa after the death of the defendant, it is ir..
regular and void, and cannot be enforced against either the real or personal property of the defendant. The judgment must first be revived against the heirs or
devisees in the one case, or personal representatives in tho other.
$uch is the settled law where there is but one defendant.
Where there are two defendants, one of whom has died, the judgment canwt bg

