2ft

SUPREME COURT.
Muasson et aL v. Lake.

faction of a jury, attaches a forfeiture either to a package of an entry,
or to the entire invoice. The fourth and fourteenth sections direct'
the collector how he is to act in one way to detect frauds upon the
revenue. But one mode of prevention, without restrictive terms,
limiting an examination and appraisement. of goods to that mode,
does not imply that -other lawful means shall not be used to produce
the same result. If the frauds, for which the fourth and fourteenth
sections declare there shall-be a forfeiture, shall be discovered, in
any way of making an appraisement differing from the manner of
examining goods under the fourth section of the act of 1830, no
one can be found to say that the forfeiture would not attach, without any reference to the means by which the fraud was discovered. It follows, then, that the mode of making an examination is
not confined to that mentioned in the fourth section of the act of
1830, and that the averment of it is not essential in a count under
either of the sections of the law upon which the present information w s framed. Without such an averment, a count under the
fourth section of the act of 1830, and fourteenth section of the act
of 1832, stating time and place, and such circumstances or
particulars of those sections that a correction or acquittal might
be' given in evidence to prevent another information for the
same offence, would be sufficient to prevent the judgment from
We think
being arrested upon a motion for that purpose.
there was no error in the court having instructed the jury, that, under the information in this case, they were not restricted in the
condemnation of the goods to any entered goods which they found
undervalued, but that they might -indeither the whole package or
the.invoice forfeited, taougjh coiatining other goods correctly valued, if they should find that such package or invoice had been
made up with intent to defraud the revenue of the United States.
The judgment in the court below is affirmed.

MICHAEL MUssoN AND GEORGE 0. HALL, SURVING PARTNERS 0F
WILLIAM NOELL, PLAINTIFFS, V. WILLIAM A. LAix.
By the law merchant, when a demand of payment is made upon the drawee of a
foreign bill of exchange, the bill itself must be exhibited.
Neither the statutes of Louisiana, nor the decisions of the courts of that State, have
changed.the law in this respect.
The statutes and decisions examined.
If, therefore, the notarial protest does not set forth the fact that the bill was presented to the drawee, it cannot be read in evidence to the jury.
Even'if the laws of Louisiana; where the drawee resided, had made this change in
the law merchant, it would not affect the contract in the present case, which is
a suit against an indorser residing in Mississippi, where the contract between
him and all subsequent indorsees was made, and where the law merchant has
not been changed.

THis case came up, on a certificate of division in opinion, from

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

263

Musson et al. r. Lake..

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Disftiict
of Mississippi.
The question which was certified to this court will be found at
the conclusion of the following statement.
Lake was sued as indorser of the following bill'of exchange :
Eicksburg, 17th December, 1836.
Exchange for $ 6,133
Twelve months after first day of February, 1837, of this first
of exchange (second of the same tenor and date unpaid), pay
to the order of R. H. & J. H. Crump six thousand one hundred
and thirty-three dollars, value received, and charge the sanie to account of
STEELE, JENKINS, & Co.
,.

To

KIRKMAN, ROSSER, & Co.,

New Orteans.

Indorsed:

R. H. & J. H. CRUMP,
W. A LAKE.,'
Kirkman, Rosser, & Co., New Orleans, 3d February, 1838,
protested for non-payment.
A. MAZUREAU, .Not. Pub.
It being admitted, that Vicksburg, where said bill bore date,
was in the State of Mississippi, and New Orleans in the State of
Louisiana, the plaintiffs then offered to read in evidence to the
Jury, the protest of said bill of exchange ; which protest, thus
Dffered to be read, is in the words and figures following, to wit :
STATES OF AMERICAI State of Louisiana:
By this public instrument, protest, be it known, that on this
third day of February, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
thirty-eight, at the request of the Union Bank of Louisiana, holder
of the original draft, whereof a tru6 copy is on the reverse hereof
written, I, Adolphe Mazureau, a notary public in and for the city
and parish of New Orleans, State of Louisiana aforesaid, duly
commissioned and sworn, demanded payment of said draft, at the
counting-house of the acceptors thereof, and was answered by
Mr. Kirkman that the. same could not be paid.
Whereupon I, the said notary, at the request aforesaid, did.protest, and by these presents do publicly and solemnly protest, as
well against the drawer or maker of the said draft,- as against all
others whom it doth or may concern, for all exchange, re-exchange,
damages, costs, charges; and interests, suffered or to be suffered
for want of payment
the said draft.
Thus done and protested, in the presence of John Cragg and
Henry Frain, witnesses.
In testimony whereof, I grant these presents under my sigUNITED

264

SUPREME COURT.
Musson et al, r. Lake.

[L. s.]

nature, and the impress of my seal of office, at the city
of New Orleans, on the day and year first herein written.
A. MAZUREAU, .Notary Public.

The copy of the said bill of exchange, referred to in said protest, on the reverse side thereof written, is in the words and figures
following, to wit :Vicksburg, 17th December, 1836.
Exchange for $ 6,133 .
. Twelve months after the first day of February, 1837, of this
first of exchange (second of same tenor and date unpaid), pay
to the order of R. H. & 3. H. Crump six thousand one hundred
and thirty-three dollars, value received, and charge the same to account of
STEELE, JENKINS, & Co.
To KIRKMAN, RossER, & Co.,
.New 0. leans.
Indorsed:
R. H. & J. H. CRUMP,
W. A. LAKE.
WM. NOLL & Co., in liquidation.
But the defendant objected to said protest, and the copy of the
bill on the reversp side thereof written being read in evidence to
the jury, on the ground that it was not stated in said protest that
the notary presented said bill of exchange to the acceptors, or either
of them, or had it in hig.possession when he demanded payment
of the same.
And that for this alleged defect, which it was insisted could not
be supplied by other proof, the said protest was invalid and void
upon its face, and could not be received as evidence of a legal
presentment of the bill for payment, or of the dishonor of the bill.
And, thereupon, on the question whether the said protest could be
read to the jury, as evidence of a legal presentment of the bill for
payment, or of the dishonor of said bill, the judges were opposed
in opinion. Which is ordered to be certified to the Supreme
Court of the United. States for their decision.
J. McKINLEY. [L. s.]
J. GHOLSON. [L. s.]
The cause was argued by Mr. Barton, for the plaintiffs, and
,Mr. Mason (Attorney-General), for the defendant.
J.r. Barton, for plaintiffs.
On the trial of this cause, and after the original bill of exchange,
upon which the suit was brought, had been read to the jury, the
plaintiff offered in evidence the protest thereof, and the following
is a copy of the material parts thereof, to wit :

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Musson et al. i. Lake.

" UNITED STATES Or AMErICA, State of Louisiaila:-

" By this public instrument of protest, be it known, that on this
3d day of February, 1838, at the request of the Union Bank of
Louisiana, holder of the original draft, whereof a true copy is on
the reverse hereof written, I, Adolphe Mazureau, a notary public
in and for the city of New Orleans, State of Louisiana aforesaid,
duly commissioned and sworn, demanded payment of said draft at
the counting-house of the acceptors thereof, and was answered by
Mr. Kirkman (one of the firm), that the same could not be paid."
The counsel of the parties to this suit do not differ'at all ks to
the duty of a notary, when making a personal demand of the payment of negotiable paper prior to the protest thereof. We concur
in opinion, that he must have the note or bill with him, and should
pr isent it for paymeht,,&c.; and the only difference which arises
i9, as to the species, of evidence which is indispensable to prove
the fact of presentment. Must the term itself be used in the protest, and will no form of words therein supply its place ? This is
the position assumed for the defendant ; and, this being controverted, the issue is made which is now to be disposed of.
A number of authorities have been cited by the learned counsel
for the defendant, which, though certainly applicable to the duties
to be performed by a notary ante protest, are believed not to decide
the question raised here ; nor, if they did, can it be conceded that
they would be conclusive, upon a matter specially pertaining to
Louisiana's jurisprudence.
The stress of the argument in the learned counsel's brief is, that
in all cases the fact of presentment must appear, in verbo, upon
the face of the protest; and this is assuredly not so. For example : if a note or bill should be payable at a particular place, and
$he notary takes it thither at maturity, and there should be no one
there to whom to present it, or of whom to demand payment, the
law dispenses the party with making either, and the notary, of
course, from certifying either, for nullts cogitur ad vana. So in
the case of a lost note ; a valid protest could be made thereof
without its production, if an adequate indemnity was tendered to
protect the party from all future liability, or to reimburse him for
any payments he should be constrained to make. In these and
analogous cases, it could hardly be insisted, either that the law required the notary to certify to a presentment which was never
made, and the failure whereof the law excuses ; or, that the protest would be invalid without it. One of the most important of the
cases ciied adversely is a strong authority to establish this. It 's
the case of Freeman et al. v. Boynton, 7 Mass; R. 483. The
court there, after affirming the necessity of having the note or bill
present when the demand is made, says : "1This rule may admit of exceptions,-as where the security
may be lost; in which case a tender of sufficient indemnity would
VOL. Iv.
34
w

W6

SUPREME COURT.
Musson et al. -. Lake.

make the demand valid, without producing the security. And
where, from the usual course of business, of which the parties are
conversant, the security may be lodged in some bank, whose officers
shall demand payment, and give notice to the indorser, according
to the custom of such banks, - the security not being presented at
the time of the demand, but the parties being presumed to know
where it may be found." Here, again, presentments are dispensed
with, in cases where protests are authorized; and surely these
protests must dispense with averments which would not be true.
The forms of protest vary in different countries. They vary in
different States. They vary in the same State. They must
necessarily adapt themselves to the true circumstances attendant
upon the dishonor of bills and notes.
The acts of public officers are favored to the extent that they
are presumed to know their duty, and to do their duty, unless the
contrary appears. A notary has no right "to demand payment,"
ip the absence of the security which attests the party's liability, or
without its presentment ; and of course he is presumed to know
that he cannot do it. Where, then, notaries "demand payment,"
they have a right to the presumption that the demand'followed the
presentation. A contrary doctrine casts the presumption against
the officer, and arraigns him, by implication, for a breach of duty;
and that, too, in the absence of an interest or a motive. Hence,
therefore, a "demand of payment," in the absence of other words,
far from implying an actual presentment, would imply that there
was none. It is, believed that no principle, nor usage, nor even
prededent, gives the sanction of its authority to accusatory implications like these.
If the protest had averred, that "payment was duly demanded,"
surely that would have implied that the demand was made upon
presentment ; and if so, is it to be implied that the demand alleged
in this protest was otherwise than duly made ? If a protest states
the substance of what is required to be done, it is all that is needed.
No form of words is sacramental; protests have been holden
good, though they stated that the demand was made "'at the maturity" of the bill or note ; or "at the time they were due," in
lieu of the usual mode of stating the precise day, month, and year
when the demand was made. So, notaries must make their dendand within certain hours of the days when the bills or notes mature. Demands made in unseasonable hours wouldjbe of no avail.
Nevertheless, protests but rarely enter into such details, but the
thing itself- the presentation -is as much required to be made
within the prescribed hours, as it is required to.be made at all.
Why, then, is more speciality of statement nepded about the exact
performance of one duty than the other ? Why, if the demand of
payment implies that it was made in due time, may it not imply
that it was made after due presentation ?

JANUARY TERM, 1846,

267

Musson et al. v. Lake.

But the'protest ad hoc was made in Louisiana. If good there,
it must be good elsewhere. Commercial usages, however ancient,
however prevalent, and however reasonable, cannot confront her
statutes and annul them, nor reverse her courts' judgments which
settle their meaning. Most disastrous would be the results were it
otherwise ; fr notarial offices in the large cities have their printed
forms of protests, which they use in all cases in like conjunctures,
and which have been in use for years, and are in daily use ; and in
heavy business offices -(like that of Mazureau's), there are sometimes from twenty to a hundred protests made in a single day, in
behalf of the banks ; and hence there are vast and incalculable.interests dependent upon the validity of these protests, and it would
be an intolerable grievance to dealers in commercial paper, if,
while these protests bound indorsers in Louisiana, they released
them elsewhere.
A rapid synopsis of the statute and decisions of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana will settle the law of protests specially a; plicable to the case at bar.
The act of the Louisiana General Assembly, of .March 13th,
1827, section 1, provides :-" That all notaries, or persons acting
as such, are authorized in their protests of bills of exchange,
promissory notes, or orders for the payment of money, to make
mention" (not of the presentment, but) "of the demand made
upon the drawer, acceptor, or person, on whom such order or bill
of exchange is drawn or, given ; and of the manner and circumstances" (not of such presentment, but) " of such demand; and
whenever they shall have so done, a certified copy: of such protest,
&c., shall be evidence of all the matters therein stated."
In the case of the Louisiana Ins. Co. v. Shaumburg, 2 Mfar.,
N. S., 511, it was decided that a notary's certificate of demand of
payment and protest may be contradicted by other evidence. If
it might, evidence might be marshalled to rebut that contradiction,
and even supply, by parol, omissions excepted to ; and if this were
so, the objection to the protest at bar should not have been to its
admissibility, but to its effect, &c. And this would accord with
the decision of Allain v. Whittaker et al., 5 N. S. 513, which
declares that "the uniform practice in this State has been to receive the protests of notaries as evidence of the demand on the
maker of a note or acceptor of a bill of exchange."
In the case of Gale v. Kemper's Heirs, 10 Louisiana Rep. 208,
the court says, -" The note was made payable at the office of di'jcount and deposit of the' Bank of the United States, in the city
of New Orleans, ,and the protest states, that" (not the presentation, &c., but) "the demand was made there of the proper officer.
When a note is payable at a particular place, a personal demand on
the drawer or maker cannot be made, and is not always required.
Tt suffices to have been made of. any persons there."

268

SUPREME

COURT.

Musson et al. v. Lake.

In the case of Thatcher v. Goff, 13 Louisiana Rep. 363, the
court gave a striking instance of its liberality of interpretation when
construing the language of protests. It decided that, where certain
notes, payable at the Branch of the Uaited States Bank at Natchez, are protested by a notary residing in Natchez, who states
in his protest that he demanded payment at the United States Bank,
it will be considered as meaning the Branch at Natchez, and not the
principal Bank of Philadelphia; thus supplying, by intendment,
the important words, "Bank at Natchez," which the notary had
,omitted in his protest.
The learned counsel has cited the case of Warren v. Briscoe, 12
Louisiana Rep. 472 ; but it is believed to be clearly distinguishable
'from the case at bar. There the note was " payable at the Planters' Bank of Mississippi at Natchez," and the protest stated that
"he went to the Planters' Bank, Natchez, and was informed by
the teller, there were no funds in the bank for the payment of said
note ; wherefore he protested," &c. Not only is no presentment
stated, but there are no words from which it is to be implied, for no
demand is stated to have been made ; and though it be inferable that
there was some note of the party which the bank had no funds to
take up, yet np. constat that it was the note in question, unless the
same had beeri exhibited to the teller. But this case was fully reviewed in the next case to be cited, which it is respectfully suggested is decisive of the validity of the protest in question.
The case referred to is that of Nott's Executor v. Beard, 16 Louisiana Rep. 308. The protest passed upon was from the identical
notarial office which made the one in the case at bar. It is couched
in the like language, thus :-" I demanded payment of said draft at
the counting-house of the acceptors thereof, and was answered by
Mr. Burnett, one of said firm, that the same could not be paid."
It is to every extent the very case at bar ; it decides emphatically,
that, under the laws of Louisiana, the word presentment is unnecessary in notarial protests ; that the word demand implies the presentment, and is all-sufficient.
•JMr. .M'ason (Attorney-General), for the defendant.
This is an action brought by the plaintiffs against the defendant,
as indorser of a foreign bill of exchange. The question raised in
the Circuit Court, and upon which the judges divided in opinion,
was whether the protest offered in evidence showed upon its face
that a presentment to the drawees of the bill, and a demand of
payment, had been made. The protest does not state that the bill
was presented to the drawees and payment demanded, but simply
that the notary demanded payment of the bill, without alleging that
he presented it, or that he had it with him and exhibited it at the
time he made the demand. We maintain that, by the settled principles of the commercial law, the protest of a f6reign bill must

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

269

Musson et al. v. Lake.

show, that at the time the notary demanded payment he had the
bill with him, ready to deliver in case it should be paid; this is
generally done by stating that he presented or exhibited the bill.
It does not necessarily follow, from a mere staement that he demanded payment of the bill, that he had the bill with him, and
presented it or exhibited it to the drawees or acceptor, because he
could demand payment. of the bill without actually having it with
him. To present a bill for payment is to exhibit or show the bill
itself to the drawer or acceptor ; to demand payment of a bill is to
request its payment; and this request may be made whether the
bill be present or not. A presentment ex vi termini imports that
the bill itself was shown to the acceptor. A mere demand ofpayment does not necessarily import that the bill was shown and
exhibited to the acceptor at the time the demand was made.
It is essential, to constitute a legal demand of payment of a bill
or note, that it should be presented to the acceptor at the time the
demand is made, or, in other words, that the person who makes
the demand should have the bill with him. In Hansard v. Robinson, 7 Barn. & Cressw. 90, 14 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 20, the
Court of the King's Bench decided that the holder of a bill of exchange cannot insist on payment without producing and offering to
deliver up the bill. The same principle is asserted in Freeman v.
Boynton, 7 lass. Rep. 483, and other authorities. Vide Chitty
on Bills, edit. of 1836, 385, et seq. ; 12 Louisiana Rep. 473.
The contract of an indorser is conditional; he promises that the
bill shall be paid if it is duly presented for payment, or if not paid
upon presentment, and notice of its non-payment-be given to him,
that he will pay it. These constitute conditions precedent to a right
of recovery against him. Chitty on Bills, edit. of 1836, 385, And
being conditions precedent, the proof must be clear and explicit to
charge him. 20 Johns. Rep. 381. In the last case, the Supreme
Court of New York say :-"
The question is not what inference
the jury might draw from the evidence, but what testimony does
the law require in such case. We have seen that this is a condition precedent, and strict proof is required. The law has allowed
the indorser this protection; nothing short of clear proof of notice shall subject him to liability. The reason and justice of requiring clear proof against a surety will not be doubted. It is imposing no hardship on the party," &c. In that case, the proof
was, that notice was left at the office of the defendant, or at the
post-office. In the one case the notice would have been sufficient,
in the other it would not ; and as the proof did not affirmatively
and clearly show that it was 'left at the office of the defendant, it
was held insufficient. So here, if the bill was present, and shown
to the acceptor when the demand was made, it was sufficient to
charge the indorser ; if it were not present, and ready to be delivered up when payment of it was demanded, it was not sufficient;
,w*.

270

SUPREME COURT.
Musson

et al. w. Lake.

and as the evidence (that is, the protest) does. not show it was
presented or exhibited when the demand was made, it necessarily
follows that the proof was insufficient to charge the indorser ; because, as before shown, the statement in the protest, that he demanded payment of the bill, does not of itself import ex vi termini
that he had-the bill with him when such demand was made. The
refusal to pay in this case, when payment was demanded, may have
been predicated upon the fact, that the notary did not have the bill.
Every fact stated by the notary in this pr6test may be true, and yet
no dishonor of the bill have occurred on which to charge the indorser. The protest must show every act to have been done that
is nece ary to charge the indorser, and can leave nothing to inference or intendment. If every fact stated in this protest might be
true, and the bill itself never have been exhibited or shown for payment, the proof is insufficient.
In suits against indorsers of foreign bills of exchange, the only
legal evidence to prove the presentment of the bill and demand of
payment is the protest. In regard to the drawer, if he had no
funds in the hands of, the drawee no protest is necessary, and an
explicit promise to pay, by an indorser may waive the necessity of
a protest ; but without such express waiver, a protest is the only
evidence of presentment and demand known to the law. " Whenever," says the law (Chitty on Bills, edit. of 1836, 489 et seq.),
" notice of non-payment of a foreign bill is necessary, a protest
must also be made, which, though on first view it might be considered mere matter of form, is, by the custom of merchants, indispensably necessary, and cannot be supplied by witnesses or the oath
of the party, or in any other way ; and it is said is part of the constitution of a foreign bill of exchange, because it is the solemn
declaration of a notary, who is a public officer recognized in all
parts of Europe, that a due presentment and dishonor has taken
place, and all countries give credence to his certificate of the facts
stated." To the same point are the following cases :- 10 Mass.
R. 1 ; 12 Pick. 484 ; 4 Har. & Johns. 54, 61 ; 4 Wash. C. C.
R. 468.
To make the protest evidence of presentment and dishonor, it
must then show on its face the solemn declaration of the notary,
that a due presentment of the bill and its dishonor has taken place,
and to constitute such due presentment and dishonor, it has been
shown that a presentation or exhibition of the bill itself to the acceptor, and a demand of payment, is necessary. And to establish
a legal presentment, the bill must accompany the demand. The
evidence must affirmatively show that fact, and as the protest in
case of a foreign bill is the only evidence admissible to prove it, it
must show that the bill accompanied the demand, by stating that it
was presented, &c., or other equivalent words. This is expressly
stated by Mr. Chitty (Chitty on Bills, edit. of 1836, 492). He

JANUARY
Musson

TERM, 1846.

271

et al. v. Lake.

says,-" Whetn the drawee, &c., refuses to pay the bill, the holder
should cause it to be protested. For this purpose, he should carry
the bill to a notary, who is to present it again to the drawee and
demand payment," &c. If the drawee again refuse to pay, the
notary is thereupon to make a minute, &c. The next step is to
draw up the protest, which is a formal declaration, on production
of the bill itself, &c., "that it has been presented for payment and
payment refused," &c.
In countries governed by the commercial law, the form of the
protest shows that the bill itself must be stated to have been presented in the protest, as well as the demand of payment. The
form runs thus :-- " On this day, the 1st, &e., 4t the request., of
A. B., bearer of the original bill of exchange, whereof a true 6 opy
is on the other uide written, I, B. C., notary, &c., did exhibit the
said bill," &c., &c. The demand of payment and refusal is then
stated, vide form. Chitty on-Bills, edit. of 1836, 496, 497.
If it be necessary to exhibit the bill at the time payment of it is
demanded, it would seem necessary to prove it ; and if it be necessary to prove it, the protest, which is the instrument of proof, must
not only show a demand of payment, but a presentation of the bill
itself at the time the demand was made. And in conformity with
these principles, the Supreme Court of Louisiana held, in the case
of Warren v. Briscoe, i2 Lcuisiana Rep. 472, the protest must
show that the bill itself was presented, &c.
This case, it is true, has in effect been overruled by the case of
Nott's Executor v. Beard, 16 Louisiana R. 308, although the court
endeavoured to reconcile the two cases. The last case, it is submitted, is irreconcilable with the principle and the adjudicated cases
hereinbefore cited. It substitutes inference or p asumption for
fact, and decides the point mainly on the ground that the notary is
a public officer, and must be presumed to have done his duty. It
introduces a new rule, unknown to the commercial law, and substitutes inference of a fact, the existence of which the law required
should be shown by express proof ; and, moreover, it assumes to
raise the presumption from the statement of a fact (to wit, demand), which by no means necessarily imports that the bill was
presented when such demand was made. The case is, as we will
endeavour-to show, inconsistent not only with the previous case in
the same court -in12 Louisiana Rep., but with principle.
The court (p. 312) admit the law to be, that the person making
the de-nand must have the bill with him ; but, say they, " It does
not follow as a consequence, because both words are not used in
the protest, that he had not the bill with him." By "both
words," we,understand the court to mean the words "presentment" and "demand," as used in the previous part of the sentence, in which they say, -"
The person makiz the I presentmentI or 'demand' must have the .bill with" him." With all due

272

SUPREME COURT.
Musson

et al. v. Lake.

deference to the opinion of that court, for whom we entertain the
highest respect, the question was not whether it followed as a
consequence, because both words were not used, that the notary
bad not the bill with him, but whether it followed as a consequence, from the statement of the one used, to wit, "1demand," that he had the bill with him. The law required the plaintiff to prove that he presented the bill and demanded its payment,
which was refused. It does not follow, that, because he demanded
payment of a bill, therefore he had the bill itself with him and
presented it. He may have had it when be demanded payment, or
he may have demanded payment of the bill without having it. It
is probable he had it, but the law will not permit the liability of an
indorser to be established by the substitution of probability for
proof. The statement, therefore, that he demanded payment of
it, is not proof that he presented or exhibited it. If it be essential
that the bill should be presented or shown, and payment thereof demanded, it follows that both the presentment of the bill for payment
and the demand of payment should be stated. Chitty (page 492)
says the notary should present it and demand payment, and
if payment is refused he should protest it, which is a formal declaration that he presented it, &c. From this, it appears the protest must state the presentment, that is, the exhibition of the bill
to the acceptor, and the demand of payment.
Aware of the difficulty of sustaining their opinion, if the same
rule of evidence applied to the statements of the notary that would
apply to the same statements on oath by a private individual, they
say he is a public officer, and it is not to be presumed that he
would do so useless an act as to go to the house of the acceptor
and demand payment if he had not the bill with him, and that the
law will presume the notary had done his duty. The principle,
that the law presumes public officers to do their duty, it is respectfully submitted, was misapplied by the court. It is true, in a proceeding against an officer for dereliction of duty, the presumption
is that he has done his duty, and the contrary must be proved,
though it involve a negative. But if this principle applies to a collateral proceeding like this, it proves too much, and the long train
of recorded decisions, requiring a protest to be produced on the
trial, will at once be struck from the commercial code. If the
law presumes he will do his duty, why require the protest to be produced, - proof that the bill was left with him to protest would be
sufficient, because, as it was his duty to protest it, it will be presumed he did so. So, when it is made his duty to give notice when
he protests a bill, as is the case in some of the States, no notice
need ever be proved ; all that is necessary, upon the principle assumed by the court, is in such case to prove the protest, and then,
as it was the notary's duty to give the notice, it will be presumed
he gave it. Nay, if it is proved that the bill was put in his hands

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

273

Musson et al. v. Lake.

to protest, it will be presumed he did his duty, and therefore it will
be presumed he did protest it. But the question might be here
asked, What is the duty of a notary when a foreign bill is placed in
his hands for protest ? It is not merely to present and demand
payment, but to set forth these facts in his protest. If he omits to
do so, the protest on its face shows he has not done his duty, and
of course the presumption falls to the ground. The principle might
be carried out to cure any defective statement as to the time notices
were given ; if omitted to be stated when notice was given, as the
notary's duty was to give notice, at furthest, the day after the protest, it could be presumed he did.so, although his protest does not
show the time when he gave the notiqe.
The court endeavour to distinguish the case from the one in 12
Louisiana Rep. 472. They say, in the last named case, the notary
certified that he went to the Planters' Bank, and was informed by
the teller there were no funds in the ba~k to pay the note, &c.
He does not say, says the court, that " he pre.ented the note or
made a demand of payment." What was the use to do so, if their
opinion in 16 Louisiana Rep. is correct ? Accordi-g to that opinion, as he was presumed to do his duty, and as it was his duty to present the note and demand payment, this would be presumed ; nay, as
they say in that case, that it is not to be presumed the notary would
do so useless an act as to go to the house of the acceptor without
the 'bill ; so, in this case, they might with equal justice have said it
would not be presumed he woild go to the bank to demand payment, and yet make no de. -nd when he got there. Why was it
not presumed he did his duty in that case, as well as in the last ?
Simply because in that case the court decided, very correctly, that
the facts which constitute a legal presentment, &c., must appear
on the face of the protest, and cannot be presumed..
Upon the whole, it is believed, both on principle and authority,
that the case in 16 Louisiana Rep. cannot be sustained, and that
the protest in this case is not legal, evidence of presentment, te
charge the defendant.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs brought an action of assumpsit, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of lississippi, against the defendant, as indorser of a bill of exchange,
drawn at Vicksburg, in said State, by Steele, Jenkins, & Co., for
$6,133, payable twelve months after the first day of February,
1837, to R. H. & J. H. Grump; and addressed to Kirkman,
Rosser, & Co., at New Orleans, and by them afterwards accepted,
and indorsed by the payees and the defendant.
On the trial of the cause, the plaintiffs offered to read as evidence to the jury a protest of the bill of exchange, to the reading
of which the defendant objected ; because it did not appear in the
35
VOL. IV.

274

SUPREME COURT.
Musson et aL ,. Lake.

protest, that. the notary' had presented the bill to the acceptors, or
either of them, when he demanded' payment thereof. - And upon
the question, whether the protest ought to be read to the jury as
evidence of a presentment of the bill to the acceptors for payment,
or as evidence of the dishcnor of the bill, the judges were opposed
in opinion. Which division of opinion they ordered to be certified
to this court ; and upon that certificate the question is now before
us for determination.
The indorser of a bill of exchange, whether payable after date or
after sight, undertakes that the drawee will pay it, if the holder
present it to him at' maturity aad' demand payment ; and if he
refuse to pay it, and the holder cause it to be protested, and due
noiice to be given to the indorsei, then he promises to pay it. All
these conditions enter into and make part of the contract between
these partiks to a foreign bill of exchange ; and the law imposes the
performance of them upon the holder, as conditions precedent to the
liability of the indorser of the bill. A presentment to and demand
of payment must be made of the acceptor personally, at his place of
business or his dwelling. Story on Bills, § 325. Bankruptcy,
insolvency, or even the death of the acceptor will not excuse the
neglect to make due presentment; and in the latter case it
should be made to the personal representatives of the deceased.
Chitty on Bills, 7th London ed. 246, 247 ; -Story on Bills, 360 ; 5
Taunt. R. 30 ; 12 Wend. R. 439 ; 2 Douglass, 515 ; Warrington
v. Furbor, 8 East, 245 ; Esdaile v. Sowerby, 11 East, 117;
14 East, 500.
The reasons why presentment-should-be- made'to the-drawee arem,
first, that he may judge of the genuineness of the bill ; secondly, of
the right of the holder to receive the contents ; and thirdly, that lie
may obtain immediate possession of the bill upon paying the amount.
And the' acceptor has a right to see that the person demanding
payment has -a-right to receive it, before he is bour to answer
whether he will pay it or not ; for, notwithstanding- his acceptance,
it may havy passed into other hands before its maturity. And he,
as well as the drawee, has a right 'to the possession of the bill, upon
paying it, to be used as a voucher in the settlement of accounts
with the drawer. Story on Bills, § 361 ; Hansards. Robinson,
7 Barn. & Cressw. 90.
Mr. Justice Story has given the,form of a protest now in use
in England, in his treatise on bills of exchange, by which it will be
seen that the words " did exhibit said bill" are used, and a blank
is left to be filled up with "the presentment, and to whom made,
and the reason, if assigned, for non-payment." ' Story on Bills,
302, note. This, with the authorities already referred to, shows
that the protest should set forth the pr.esentment of the bill, the demand of payment, and the answer of the drawee o. acceptor.The holder of the bill is the proper person to make the .present-

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

275

Musson at al. r. Lake.

ment of it for payment or acceptance. Story on Bills, § 360.
But the law makes the notary his agent for the purpose of presenting
the bill, and doing whatever the holder is bound to do to fix the
-liability of the indorser. Every thing, therefore, that he does in
the performance of this duty must appear distinctly in his protest.
He is the officer of a foreign government; the proceeding is ex
parte ;. and the evidence contained in the protest is credited in all
foreign courts. Chitty on Bills, 215 ; Rogers ,. Stephens, 2 T.
R. 713 ; Brough v. Parkings, 2 Ld. Raym. 993 ; Orr v. Maginnis, 7 East, 359 ; Chesmer v. Noyes, 4 Camp. 129. The evidence contained in the protest must, therefore, stand or fall upon
its oyvn merits. It rests upon the same footing with parol evidence ; and if it fails to make full proof of due diligence on the
part of the plaintiff, it must be rejected.
But the counsel for the plaintiffs insists, that the statute of Louisiana, and the interpretation given to it by the Supreme Court of
that State in the case of Nott's Executor v. Beard, 16 Louisiana
Rep. 30S, have so changed the law merchant, as to render unnecessary the presentment of a foreign bill for payment. After a careful
examination of the opinion of the court in that case, we are unable to
perceive any intention manifested to depart from the settled usages
of the law merchant ; but, on the contrary, they attempt by argument and authority to bring the case within that law. The question before that court was the identical question now before us.
The protest was objected to because it did not show that the bill
had been presented by the notary to the acceptors for payment.
To this objection, tat court said it might perhaps have been
more specific if in the protest it had been stated that the bill was
p resented, and payment thereof demanded. And they admit the
law is well settled, that, before the holder of an accepted bill can
call on the drawer for payment, he must make a presentment for, or
demand of, payment, and give notice of the refusal. Here, then, is
a definite proposition, asserting that a presentment for payment
and a demand of payment are convertible terms, and that the
proof of either would be. sufficient.
To support this proposition, they refer to Chitty on Bills, and
Bayley on Bills, and the annotators on them. And as further
proof and illustration, and to show that demand of payment should
be preferred to preerltment for payment, they refer to the statute
of Louisiana, passed in'1827, in which they say the word demand
is used in it, and that the word pre. entment is not ; and they refer
to the statute, also, to show that not'ries were vested with certain
powers by it, which gave authority to their acts ; and that they
eing public officers, the presumption of law is, that they do their
duty ; and therefore, if the protest ,ere defective, and liable to
the objection urged against it, this presumption of law wohld cover

276

SUPREME COURT.
Musson et al. v. Lake.

all such defects. This is substituting presumption for proof, in
violation of all the rules of evidence.
With all due respect for that distinguished tribunal, we are constrained to dissent from the general proposition they have laid
down' on the subject of demand and presentment, and from all
their reasoning in support of it. Due diligence is a question of
law; and we think we have shown, by abundant authority, that the
holder of an accepted bill, to fix the liability of the drawer or indorser, must present it to the acceptor and demand payment thereof.* It may be well here to repeat what Lord Tenterden, C.
J., said on this subject, in delivering the judgmnent of the Court of
King's Bench, in the case of Hansard v. Robinson, before referred to. 'He said,-"11 The general rule of the English law does
-not allow a suit by the assignee. of a chose in action. The custom of merchants, considered as part of the law, furnishes in this
case an exception to the general rule. What, then, is the custom
in this'respect ? 'It is, that the bolder of the bill shall present the
instrument, at its maturity, to the acceptor, demand payment of
its amount, and, upon receipt of ,he money, deliver up the bill.
The acceptor paying the- bill has a right to the possession of the
instrument for his own security, and as his voucher, and discharge
pro tanto, in his account with the drawer. If, upo an offer of
payment, the holder should refuse to deliver up the bill, can it be
doubted that the acceptor might retract his offer, or retain his
money ?" This extract, we think, furnishes a full answer to all
that has been said by the Supreme Court of Louisiana to prove
that it is not necessary to present the bill to the acceptor for payment; and to the presumption of law relied 'on to cure the defects in the protest.
But to show, that, by the statute of Louisiana, the presentment
of a bill to the acceptor for payment is not dispensed with, and
that the presentment is, by a fair construction of the act, as much
within its true intent and meaning as the demand, we proceed to
examine its provisions. The principal object of the legislature in
passing this statute seems to have been, to give authority to notaries to give potices, in all cases'of protested bills and promissory
notes; and to make their certificates evidence of such notices.
And, therefore, all that is said on the subject of the demand and
the manner of making it, and the other circumstances attending it,
was not intended as a new enactment on these subjects, but as in.
ducement to the p6wers conferred on the notary, which was the
principal object of the statute, as will appear, we think, by reading it. That part of it which relates. to this subject is in these
words :- " That all notaries, and persons acting as such, are authorized, in their protests of bills of exchange, promissory notes,
and orders for the payment of money, to -make mention of the
demand made upon the drawee, acceptor, or person on whom such

JANUARY

277

TERM, 1846.

Musson et al. v. L;ke.

order or bill of exchange is drawn or given, and of the manner
and circumstances of such demand ; and by certificate, added AP
such protest, to state the manner in which any notices of protest
to drawers, indorsers, or other persons interested were served or,'
forwarded ; and whenever they shall have so dqne, a certified copy
of such protest and certificate shall be evidence of all the notices
therein stated."
It seems to have been taken for granted by the legislature, that
the notaries knew how to make out a protest, and therefore they
did not prescribe the form, but gave the substance of it, to which
the notary was required to add a certificate of the manner in which
he had given notices, and when done, according to the statute, a
certified copy of the protest and certificate should be evidence,
not of the demand and manner and circumstances of the demand,
but of the notice only. -This shows that the intention of the
legislature, in passing this part of the statute, was merely to authorize the notaries to give notices, and to make the copy of the
protest, and the certificate added to it, evidence of notice in the
courts of Louisiana. But independent of this view of the subject,
we think the languag; employed in this statute includes the presentment of the bill for payment, and for all other purposes, as
fully as it does the demand of payment. In giving construction
to the act, the pfirase, "and of the manner and circumstances of
such demand," cannot be rejected, but must receive a fair interpretation. When taken in connection 'with other parts of the
statute, what do these words mean ? The manner of making a
-demand of payment, we have seen, is by presenting the bill to the
drawee or acceptor ; and so important is this part of the proCeeding, that the omission to present the bill to the acceptor will justify his refusal to pay it, although payment be demanded. The
legislature cannot be presumed to have intended to make so important a change in the law merchant as that ascribed to them by
the counsel for the plaintiffs, without at the same time providing
some other mode of obtaining the acceptance and payment of bills
of exchange, and of holding drawers and indorsers to their liabilities. It is but reasonable, therefore, to give to the phrase before
referred to such construction, if practicable, as will leave the law
merchant as it stood before the passage of the statute, and carry
into effect the main intention of the legislature. This, we think,
may fairly he done without doing any violence to the intention or
the language of the statute.
The manner of the demand must, therefore, mean the presentment of the bill for either acceptance or payment ; and the circum8tances of the demand, we think, means the place where the
presentment and demand is made, and the person to whom or of
whom it is made, and the answer made by such person. It is very
clear,.that bills payable at sight, and after sight,-are within the
VOL. Iv.

X

2/

SUPREME COURT.
Musson et al. v. Lake.

meaning of the statute ; because it provides for a demand of payment of the acceptor of a bill. Now how can there be an acceptor of a bill, without a presentment for acceptance ? Until the
bill become due, payment cannot be demanded of the drawee.
This shows, that without the word presentment and the word demand also, the plain meaning of the statute could not be carried
into effect. A bill, payable at a fixed period after its date, need
not be presented for acceptance ; it is sufficient' to present it and
demand payment when it arrives at maturity; but a bill payable at
sight, or after sight, can never become' due until -fter it has been
accepted. How is the holder or the notary to obtain the acceptance of such a bill, under the decision of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana ? Will it be sufficient to demand payment of the bill?
That would be a nugatory act, because it is not due; then it must
be admitted, that, by fair and necessary construction, the word
presentment is within the plain meaning and intention of the statute, and that the bill may be presented for acceptance or for payment, and therefore neither the statute nor the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana has changed the law merchant in any of
these respects.
There is, however, another question, entirely independent of
the statute and the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
which may be decisive of the case before this court; and that
question is, Whether the contract between the holder and indorser
of the bill in controversy is to be governed by the law of Louisiana, where the bill was payable, or by the law of Mississippi,
where it was drawn and indorsed. The place where the contract
is to be performed is to govern the liabilities of the person who
has undertaken to perform it. The acceptors resided at New
Orleans ; they became parties tq the bill by accepting it there.
So far, therefore, as their liabilities were concerned, they were
governed by the law of Louisiana. But the drawers and indorsers
resided in Mississippi; the bill was drawn and indorsed there;
and their liabilities, if any, accrued there. The undertaking of
the defendant was, as before stated, ithat the drawers should pay
the hill ; and that if the holder, after using due diligence, failed to
obtain payment from them, he would pay itwith interest and damages.
This part of the contract was, by the agreement of the parties, to
be performed in Mississippi, where the suit was brought, and is
now depending. The construction of the contract, and the diligence necessary to be used by the plaintiffs to entitle them to a
recovery, must, therefore, be governed by thb laws of the latter
State.
Story on Bills, § 366; 4 Peters, 123; 2 Kent's
Comm. 459; 13 Mass. R. 4; 12 Wend. R. 439; Story on
Bills, § 76 ; 4 Johns. &t 119 ; 12 Johns. R. 142; 5 East,
124; 3 Mass. R. 81; 3 Cowen, 154; 1 Cowen, 107; 5
Cranch, 298.

JANUARY TERM,( 1846.

279

Musson et al. -. Lake.

Whatever, therefore, may have been the intention of the legislature in passing the statute, and of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
in the decision of the case referred to, neither can affect, in the
slightest degree, the case before us. In Mississippi the custom of
merchants has been adopted as part of the common law ; and by
that law and their statute law, this case must be'governed. We
think, therefore, the protest offered by the plaintiff, as evidence to
the jury, ought not to have been received as evidence of presentment of the bill to the acceptors for payment, nor as evidence of
the dishonor of the bill ; which is ordered to be certified to the
Circuit Court accordingly.
Mr. Justice McLEAN. I think the protest was evidence. The
notary made demand of payment, ;t the maturity of the bill, and we
know that he had possession of the bill, from the fact of the protest
being made on the same day. Now as the notary could- not make
a legal demand in the absence of thq bill, the fair, if not the necessary, inference is, that he had possession of the bill when he demanded payment.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY. I regret b2ing compelled to dissent from a portion of the opinion of the majority of the court
which has just been pronounced. This I should be content to do
without explanation, if the grounds for itdid not a -pear to be misunderstood. I do not question that a note should-be present usually when payment is demanded (Freeman v. Boynton, 7 Mass. R.
483 ; 17 Mass. Rt. 449 ; 3 Metcalf, 495) ; and that a wiitten protest
is the proper evidence to show a presentment or demand in the case
of a foreign bill of exchange (8 Wheat. 333 ; Burke v. McKay, 2
Howard, 71). But, in my view, a protest like this was competent
evidence to be submitted to the jury, in order that they might infer
from it that the note was presented when the demand was made.
That was the paint presented by the division of opinion between
the judges in the court below. One herd it was competent evidence
from which to make such an inference, and the other, it was not,
and we are merely to decide which was right.
The question of due presentment and demand is a mixed one of
law and fact, and not one of mere law, unless all the facts are first
conceded or agreed (-United States v. J. Barker, 1 Paine's C. C.
R. 156). T'.is is in analogy to the rule about notice (1 Peters,
583). In all cases whbre it is possible for the jury on any reasonable hypothesis to infer a prop -r presentment from the protest offered, it is safer that the wining should not be withdrawn from
them, but go in, md the court instruct the jury on the whole evidence what the law was on such facts as they might be satisfied of.
Chancellor Kent (3 Comm. 107) thinks it very difficult, in these
-mixed questions of Jaw and fact about commercial paper, to do

280

SUPREME COURT.
Musson et al. v. Lake.

justice by any other course. In this case the jury might or might
not be satisfied of the fact of the bill being present when the demand was made. But why not let them pass on.that fact ? It is
manifest that no evil or danger would result from leaving the matter
to them, under due instructions from the court, provided there be
no legal obstacle to such a course.
Is there, then, any such obstacle ?
It is conceded, on both sides, that the protest is competent
evidence, and contains enough from which the jury could infer a demand of payment. That is the most material part of the notary's
duty. It is not only so described in some elementary treatises,
but the duty of having the note present, or of calling with it at the
hours of business alone, are not described separately ; ,but are involved or implied in the general duty of making a demand. Thus
Dane, in his Abridgment, Bills of Exchange (art. 11, § 1), says, "In making a protest, three things are to be done, - the noting,
demanding, and drawing up the protest." " The material part is
So the word demand is at times
the making of the demand."
used ,as synonimous with the word presentment by Bailey. 16
Louisiana Rep. .311.
But the protest in this case states not only a demand, but that
payment of the bill was refused, and that he had it in possession,
so as to make a cbpy "of the original draft" on the back of the
protest, or, to use his own words, "whereof a true copy is on the
reverse hereof written," and also "demanded payment of said
draft," and was answered, "that the same could not be paid."
Under these expressions, it could hardly be deemed unfair, or
any stretch of probability, to infer that the bill was present at the
demand, and the more especially as the notary knew it was his
duty to have it present, and does not state that any objection was
made, or refusal to pay, on account of its absence, as he should
have stated, if such was' the truth. My views do not differ from
those of a majority of this court concerning the importance of having the principles as to commercial law, and especially commercial
instruments, uniform, and as little fluctuating as possible ; and hence
as to them I would make no innovation here. But our difference
is rather on a question of evidence. Thus, had the testimony
offered been submitted to the jury, and they had inferred from it a
due presentment of the note, it would not ohange any commercial
principle as to the necessity of presentment, but merely establish
the fact of presentment here on evidence deemed by the jury to
render that fact probable. And if juries should be dispbsed to find
such a fact on slight testimony, it would do no injury to commercial
paper, or commercial principles, or substantial justice between parties, but merely indicate an increased liberality as to forms, where
substance has been regarded ; that is, where the vital point in the
transaction is beyond controversy, namely, that payment has clearly

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

281

Musson et at. v. Leke.

been demanded and not made. Such a course would accord, algo,
in spirit, with what was laid down by this court in 1 Peters, 583,
that rules as to commercial paper ought to be formed and construed
so as to be reasonable and founded in general convenience and with
a view to clog as little as possible, consistently with the safety of
parties, the circulation of paper of this description.
There is nothing in .the nature of protests and presentments
which on principle requires any increased strictness in the proof of
them, but, on the contrary, much to justify every reasonable presumption in their favor. Any holder would be anxious to get his
money at once of the drawee, and not neglect to have the note
with him so as to give it up on payment and prevent delay. So
would he wish to be paid and excused entirely from making protest,
rather than resort to that and notice, and suffer the delay of recovering it of a drawer or indorsir.
Both of these considerations strengthen the inference that he
and his aigent would present the note, or have it with them, when
demanding payment, and render it reasonable, after slight proof of
presentment, to leave it to the opposite party to rebut that inference,
so natural, by 'stronger proof that the note was not present, if the
facts would warrant such proof.
Another consideration against requiring great or greater rigidity
in the evidence of a presentment and form of protest is the fact,
that a protest is of less- materiality than notice.
As an illustration, that the notice is deemed more material than
the protest, " otpitting to allege in the declaration a protest of a bill
is only forrf, not to be taken advantage.of on a general demurrer."
I Dane's Abr., Bills of Exchange, ch. 20, art. 11, § 9 ; Liii.
Ent. 55 ; 3 Johns. R. 202 ; Salomons v. Staveley, Doug. 684, innote to Rushton v. Aspinall.
But, omitting to state a demand or'notice is baa"after verdict.
Doug. 684.
Dane, in his Abridgment (vol. 1, p. 3 9 5 , ch. 20, art. 10, § 1), says,
- Notice is very material. Protests are mere matter of form."
Yet notice may be very loose, and it answers in all cases, if it disclose merely the fact of demand, and a reliance on the person
notified for payment. Shed v. Brett, 1 Pick. 401 ; Miller v.
Bank of United States, 11 Wheat. 431 ; Gilbert v. Dennis, 3
Mete. 495 ; 2 John . Ch. R. 337 ; 12 Mass. R. 6; 4 Wash.
C. C. Rep. 464.
" The noticehowever, should inform the party to whom it is
addressed, either in express terms or by necessary implication, or,
at all events, by reasonable intendment, what the bill or note is,
that it has become due, that it has been duly presented to the
drawer or maker, and that payment has been refused." Chitty on
Bills (9th Lond. & 10th Amer. edit.), 469.
But it has again and again been held, that the notice need not
X*
36
VOL. Iv.

282

SUPREME COURT.
Musson et al. v.

Lake.

state a presentment in express terms, and that it will be implied
from stating a demand and non-payment, and a looking to the indorser. 9 Peters, 33 ; 3 Kent's Comm. 108 ; 10 Mlass. R. 1 ;
4 Mason, 336 ; 1 Johns. Gas. 167. 'So, " Your note has been
returned dishonored," is enough from which to intend all. See
various other illustrations, 6 Adolph. & Ellis, 499 ; 5 Dowl. 771;
2 Chit. R. 364 ; 2 Mees. & Welsh. 109.
It may be a letter, - merely to that effect, - and need not be
a copy of the protest. 1 Chit. (2d Eng. & 1st Amer. edit.), 363,
364, 498, 499 ; 3 Camp. R. 334 ; 2 Starkie, 232 ; Goodwin v.
Harley, 4 Adolph. & Ellis, 520, 870; 4 Eq. R. 48. See 8
Mass. R. 386. And it has been adjudged, that the notice need
not state, in express terms, that the note was present, or if present
was exhibited, if it only contained matter from which, by reasonable
intendment, this can be inferred. Chitty on Bills (last edit.), 469
2 Peters, 254 ; 9 Peters, 23.
It not being necessary, then, to inform the indorser of the presentment of the note itself, in so many words, there seems to be
no use in having the fact stated at length in the protest, if enough
appear to render the fact probable.
It would be difficult to find a reason, in the absence of positive
law, why the form of the protest should not be dealt by as liberally
as that of notice ; and if, like the other, it disclose a demand, allow the jury to infer from that, as in the case of notice, that the
note was present. Indeed, a protest is not required to be in writing
at all except in case of foreign bills, drawn on persons abroad.
I Chitty on Bills, 643 ; Rogers v. Stevens, 2 D. & E. 713 ; 2 Starkie onEv. 232 ; 6 Wheat. 572 ; 8 Wheat. 333 ; 3 Wend. 173 ; 2
Peters, 179 ; 1 Cranch, 205. And then it doubtless originated in
a rule merely allowing it to be done to save the expense and
trouble of bringing a witness from abroad to prove the fact, rather
than making it imperative.
Instead of a written protest being better evidence than a witness
of the presentment and demand in case of inland bills or promissory notes, or even foreign bills drawn on persons here, it is inferior
evidence to witnesses for proving presentment and demand, and is
usually inadmissible, except by special statutes. 1 Chitty on Bills,
405 ; 3 Pick. 415 ; 6 Wheat. 572; 5 Johns. R. 375 ; 4 Wash.
C. C. Rep. 148 ; 4 Camp. R. 129; 2 Howard's U. S. Rep. 71;
8 Wheat. 146.
Some seem 'to suppose that there is danger in allowing an informal written protest to go to the jury as evidence to be weighed in
proving that the Aiote was present. But there can be no more in
that than in allowing, an informal notice to go to the jury. The
jury must be satisfied, in both cases, and should so be instructed,
that all has been done which the law in both requires. If there be
any defence in either case, thatr all proper has not been done, it can

JANUARY TERM, 1846.
Musson

283

et al. v. Lake.

probably be shown by counter evidence in one as well as the other.
Why should it not be ? and why is not that an ample security
against being improperly charged ? For the protest is not a written contract between the. -parties, or a sealed instrument not open
to be contradicted by parol evidence. But it is a mere certificate
of a notary, a subordinate officer, admitted for convenience as
prima facie evidence of certain facts, and allowed to that extent
in order to save the expense of witnesses and delays, but ought to
be always open to be impaired or disproved by the other party in
interest, who has never been heard before him, and of course cannot reasonably be concluded for ever by his acts. The no'ary
is not required to swear to them, when they are admissible as
evidence, as he would be to a deposition, because of his official
obligations and standing. But thb. character and construction that
properly belong to his certificate as evidence seem to be like those
of a deposition ; and if it states, .in so many words, that the note
was presented, or states what justifies such an inference, there appears to be no good reason why the contrary may not be proved,
if such was the fact, and the indorser be thus protected against
statements or inferences not well founded. And the absurdity of
the contrary course is still more apparent as to protests, when one
made by any respectable merchant, and attested by two witndsses, in
the absence of a notary, has the same validity as his. Chitty on
Bills, 303 ; Story on Bills, § 276.
In Nicholls v. Webb, 8 Wheat. 336, counter testimony was held
to be admissible against the minutes of a notary offered to prove
demand and notice.
So is it admissible, that the notary mistook the place, and did
not demand the bill at the place of business for the drawee. Insurance Company v. Shamburgh, !I Martin's R. (N. S.) 513.
In Vandewall v. Tyrrell, Mood. & Malk. 87, counter evidence was offered, and avoided the protest, because the clerk of
the notary, and not the notary himself, as stated in the protest,
made the demand. See Cbitty on Bills, 495, note.
This point thus being established on both principle and precedent, all the danget or difficulty as to the merits of the case, by
admitting a protest like this, is obviated. But it is further urged
against it, that presentment is averred in the declaration, and therefore must be proved. This we admit. Chitty on Bills, 643 - 647.
And so is notice averred in the declaration and notice of a presentment, and so that must be proved. 1 Chit. 633 ; Doug. 654, 680.
All we urge here is to let them be proved by similar general statements, from which the similar inferences-may be drawn in one case
as the other, that the note was present at the time of the demand,
unless the contrary is shown, - as it may be, if true.
Again, it is said that the forms of protest generally state, that
the bill was present or exhibited. This is true. 1 Chitty,

284

SUPREME COURT.
Musson et al. v. Lake.

395, 396 (Ist Amer. edit.) ; Story on Bills of Exchange, § 276,
note.
But we are aware of no case deciding -that this fact must be
stated, in so many words, in the protest itself, though we admit that
the jury must be satisfied that the fact existed. Minutes in the
book of a messenger deceased have been held to be proof to be
submitted to a jury as evidence of due demand and notice. Welsh
v. Barrett, 15 Mass. R. 380. Yet there does not appear to have
been a presentment stated, eo nomine, or that there was any but inferential evidence that he had the note with him. See, also, North
Bank v. Abbott, 13 Pick. 469. And it is not a little remarkable,
that th6 only statute in England (9 and 10 Will. 3) which prescribes
the form of a protest, and which is in relation to inland bills of five
pounds and upwards, in order to recover damages and interest, the
form does not state in so many words that the bill was present or
was exhibited, but merely "at the usual place of abode of the said
A. have demanded payment of the bill," &c. Chitty on Bills,
465 (9th ed.). In such cases, precisely that, and that alone, must
be done which is contended for here, namely, leave it to the jury
t6 infer the presence of the bill from its payment being demanded,
and any other facts stated, unless the contrary is shown Look
at another analogy. It is necessary that the exhibit of the iote
and the demand be made in the legal hours of business. Chitty
on Bills, 349, 354 ; Ruben v. Bennet, 2 Taunt. 388 ; 2 Camp.
537 ; Parker v. Gordon, 7 East, 385 ; 1 Maul. & Selw. 20.
But, as in respect to the presence of the note, no case holds that
this must appear by so many words in the protest. And it is not
stated, in the common forms, that the demmad was made in the
usual hours of business. I Chitty on Bills, 396. On the contrary, the jury are allowed or instructed that they may infer, from
the statement of the demand and non-payment, that they were made
within the proper hours. And if it was not, the other party would
doubtless be allowed to disprove it by counter evidence.
How can such a case, then, be distinguished in principle from
this ? - except that there is much less in the usual form of protest
from which to infer that the bill was presented in legal hours, than
there is in this protest frbm which to infer that the bill was present
when the demand was made. I am the mor.e inclined, also, to the
opinion, that this protest is competent evidence, because, under a
special law in Louisiana, passed March 13th, 1827, such protests
have beeu adjudged sufficient. Their law uses the word "demand" when describing what the protest shall contain, and such a
protest is there allowed to g6 to the jury as evidence 'from which
to infer that the note was present. Nott's Executor v. Beard,
16 Louisiana R. 308.
The bill now in dispute was on its face payable in Louisiana;
and hence the principles of commercial Jaw require that the protest

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

285

Musson et al. r. Lake.

be made at the time and in the munner prescribed by that State.
Story on Bills of Exchange, § 176; 1 Chitty on Bills, 193, 506;
Story's Conflict of Laws, § 360.
But whether the statute- of Louisiana prescribing what protest
shall be sufficient ought to he considered as affecting any thing beyond the evidence of protest in its own courts, is not very clear on
principle. (See cases, Story on Bills, § 172.)
Hence, in forming an opinion, I have placed it mainly on general considerations, though in the construction of a Louisiana statute, which clearly affected the contract, and not the evidence ; and
where the judgment of its court clearly rested on the statute alone,
about which some doubt exists, it ought unquestionably to control
us in respect to contracts made or to be fulfilled there, even if a
departure from the general principles of commercial law. I wish,
also, to avert some serious consequences that I apprehend may result from the decision of the majority of the court in several of the
States of the Union.
Bills of exchange drawn in one State on persons in another must
be considered, under the previous decisions of this court, as foreign
bills. Townsley v. Sumrall, 2 Peters, 179, 586, 688 ; Lonsdale v.
Brown, 4 Wash. 0. 0. R. 87, 153; 1 Hill, 44 ; 12 Pick. 283 ;
15 Wend. 527 ; 5 Johns. 375 ; Dickins v. Beal, 10 Peters, 579.
Demand of payment, then, cannot be proved in suits upon them
out of the State where presented, unless by a written protest, according to the cases before cited.
Whenever the protest, then, in such case, does not state in detail
a presentment or presence of the bill, though stating a demand,
refusal, and no objection, the protest must, as in this decision, be
ruled out as incompetent evidence ; and the same decision virtually
implies, that no other evidence except the written protest is admissible to show that fact, or indeed any fact which may be omitted by
accident or otherwise in the written protest, and that no inference can
be admitted to be drawn from the protest as to presentment, when
only a demand, refusal, and no objection are stated, as here. These
consequences, with others before named, I would avoid, by making
the protest competent evidence, and when it showed a demand, refusal, and no objection explicitly, as here, would leave it to the jury,
fiom that and the other circumstances, to say whether they were or
were not satisfied that the notew'as present.
In this way it is easy to reconcile full action of the jury on the
facts with that of the court on the law, and this, too, without any
innovation or change in the rule as to commercial paper, or any
violation of adjudged cases, but rather in conformity to them and
to several strong analogies.
This court have in other cases gone still farther, and held it proper even io expand or enlarge the rules of evidence in certain exigencies. In Nicholls v. Webb, 8 Wheat. 332, the principle laid

286

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. McLemore.

down by Lord Ellenborough, in Pritt v. Fairclough, 3 Camp. R.
305, as to the rules of evidence, was adopted, namely, "1That they
must expand according to the exigencies of society." And in the
Bank of Columbia v. Lawrence, 1 Peters, 583, speaking of a rule
as to diligence, Tl~ompson, J., says, -" 1 For the sake of general
convenience it has been found necessary to 'enlarge this rule." ,
But all I ask here is to go as far as the existing rules of evidence
seem to justify, and let reasonable inferences and presumptions be
made by the jury from all that is stated in the protest, and thus
decide whether the note was not probably present when the demand was made.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANT, V. JOHN Q. McLEornE.
Although a Circuit Court, sitting as a court of law, may direct credits to be given
on a judgment in favor of the United States, and consequently examine the
grounds on which such an entry is claimed, and may direct the execution to be
stayed until such an investigation shall be made, yet it cannot e.tertain a bill
on the equity side, praying that the United States may be perpetually enjoined
from proceeding upon such judgment.
Nor can a decree or judgment be entered against the government for costs.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Middle Tennessee,.sitting as a court of equity.
It is unnecessary to recite all the circumstances which led to the
filing of the bill in equiity, as it was dismissed for the want of jurisdiction in the Circuik Court. The facts in the case are sumnlarily stated in the opinion of the court. It is proper, however, to
exhibit the account to which the opinion of Mr. Justice Wayne
refers :Tnn UITED STATES OF AMERICA V. SERCY'S ExEcUrrOs AND SECURITIES.
DR. Robert &arcy, Zate DistrictPaymaster, in account with the U. S.
To amount of judgwnent, 21st June, 1827, .
$17,028 41
"
interest till 20th Sept., 1843, 16 years,
3 months, 29 days,
16,597 80
128, May 3, Cr. by payment to Tho. H. Fletcher,
$1,283
"
interest till 20th Sept., 1,43, 15 years,
4 months, 17 days,
.
.
1,184
9
July 8,
It payment to Tho. H. Fletcher,
.
519
"
nterest till 20th Sept., 1843, 15 years,
2 months, 12 days,
.
473
4
July 18, " payment to Tho. H. Fletcher,
1,940
"
interest till 20th Sept., 1843, 15 years,
2 months, 2 days,
.
1,76"
Jtiy 24,
"c
payment made to Tho. H. Fletcher,
498
"
interest till 20th Sept., 1843, 15 years,
1 month, 26 days,
455
Amounts carried forward,

$

$ 33,626 21
62

00

25
33
68
05
33
34

120 60 33,626 21

