NG v. GALLIN.
Statement of Facts.

ING v. GALLUNh

& Another.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Submitted October 10th, 1883.-Decided October 29th, 18M5.

.Patents-Evidence.
1. In his specification, A describes a process for placing hair'in small bundles
and by a bailing press uniting several bundles into a bale of a convenient
size for transportation: Held, That this description does not show a patentable invention.
2. The court will take judicial notice of matters of common knowledge, and 9f
things in common use.

This was a bill in equity brought by Wendell R. King, the
appellant, against August Gallun and Alb.ert Trostel, to restrain
them from infringing letters patent No. 152,500, dated June
30, 1874, granted to the appellant for certain*improvements in

baled plastering hair.
The invention and its advantages are thus set forth in the

specification:
"It is found that the wants of the trade in plastering hair require it to be compressed for transportation in packages of from

three to five bushels ; this amount of hair forms a package of a
good size to conveniently handle, weighi'ng from twenty to forty
pounds. The trade unit for the article of plastering hair is
is sold by the bushel or by the multiple
always the bushel; it.
thereof.
"Heretofore this hair has been packed in a mass of a certain
number of bushels baled together, varying in amount as the
order required, so that when received the retail dealer was compelled tp parcel out the same and weigh it to suit his customhers.
This is a disagreeable and difilcult thing to do, as the hair is
dirty and matted together, and after it is once removed from the
case into which it has been compressed by a bailing press, is bulky
and not easy to reduce again to a convenient package. For the
convenience of the trade I propose to form the hair in small
bundles of one bushel each, and unite several bundles into a bale
of a convenient size for transportation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"I first place a bushel of hair into a paper sack loosely, or
only so far packed as may be readily done by hand; several of
these one-bushel packages are then placed side by side in a bailing press. I use for this purpose the bailing press heretofore
patented to me ; they are thus compressed forcibly together, so
that the bale produced will be a compact, firm bale, occupyifig
only about one-fifth of the original bulk; the paper bags which
still envelop the individual bushels of the bale keep said bushels
separate, and serve at the same time to protect the hair.
"The bale, after being compressed, is tied in the usual way,
and is then in shape for transportation without further covering, although it may be desirable, if the bale is sent a long distance, to envelop it in a stout sacking cover. Hair baled thus
may be separated by the retail dehler into bushel packages, each
of which remains compressed into a small size, and is in convenient
condition to handle."
The claim was as follows:
"Having thus described my inirention, I claim as an article of
manufacture the bale B of plasterers' hair, consisting of several
bundles, A, containing a bushel each by weight, enclosed or incased in paper bags or similar material, and united, compressed,
and secured to form a package, substantially as specified."
The defence was want of novelty in the alleged invention,
and that the same was not patentable.
The circuit court dismissed the bill, and from its decree the
complainant appealed.
.M. L. I. Cobumn for appellant.
Mr.JoiahStark for appellee.
MR.JusTiCE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

We are of opinion that the patent of complainant dbes not
describe a patentable invention. 'The claim is for an article of

manufacture, to wit, a bale of plasterers' hair consisting of
several bundles enclosed in bags, and compressed and secured
to form a, package.
It is evident that the patent does not cover any improvement
in the quality of the hair. Its qualities are unchanged. It

KING v. GALLUI.
Opinion of the Court.

does not cover the packing of the hair into parcels, or the size,
shape, or weight of the parcels, nor the compression of the parcels separately. Nor does it cover the material of the bags
which constitute the outer covering of the parcels. Complainant claims none of these things as secured by his patent. The
packing of hair and other articles in parcels of the same shape,
size, and weight, and the compression of the several parcels,
has from time immemorial been in common use. Neither does
complainant contend that his patent- covers a single parcel or
package of hair. All, therefore, that the patent can cover is
simply an article of manufacture resulting from the compression
and tying together in one bale of several similar parcels or
packages of plasterers' hair. The object of this invention is
thus set out in the specification: "For the convenience of the
trade "-that is to say, to enable the retail dealer more easily
to parcel out the hair in quantities to suit his customers-" I
propose to form the hair in small bundles of ore bushel each,
and unite several bundles into a bale of convenient size for
transportation." The invention and the object to be accomplished by it are thus seen to be contained with narrow limits.
In deciding whether the patent'covers an article the making
of which requires invention, we are not required to shut our
eyes to matters of common knowledge or -things in common
use. Brown v. Piper, 91 U. S. 37; Terhune v. PhIfldhps, 99
U. S. 592; Ah Kow v. 117unan, 5 Saw. 552.
The subdivision and packing of articles of commerce into
small parcels for convenience of handling and retail sale, and
the packing of these small parcels into boxes or sacks, or tying
them together in bundles for convenience of storage and transportation, is as common and well known as any fact connected
with trade. This well known practice is applied, for instance,
to fine-cut chewing and fine-cut smoking tobacco, to ground
coffee and spices, oatmeal, starch, farina, desiccated vegetables,
and a great number of other articles. This practice having
been common and long known, it follows that there is nothing
left for the patent of complainant to cover but the compression
of the bale formed of several smaller parcels. Can this be
dignified by the name of invention? When the contents of

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1S83.
Opifiioii of the Cour.

the smaller parcels are sach as to admit of compression into a
smaller compass, the idea of compressing the bale of the smaller
parcels for transportation aid storage would occur to any mind.

There is as little invention in compressing a bale of several
parcels of hair tied up together as in compressing one large
parcel of the same commodity.
But it is perfectly well known that the compression of several
packages of the same thing into larger packages or bundles is
not new, and that it has long been commonly practised. Packages of wool, feathers, and plug tobacco have been so treated.
The case of plug tobacco is'a familiar instance. The plugs are
formed so m to retain their ideltity and shape, the outer leaves
of the plug.forming at the same time a part of the plug as well
as its covering. The plugs, after being so put up as to preserve
their identity under pressure, are, as is well known, placed in a,
frame and subjected to pressure, and reduced to a smaller and
*compact mass, which is then boxed .up and is ready for market.
This is done in part for convenience in handling, transportation,
and storage. When the box is opened by the retail dealer, the
plugs can be taken out separately and sold. This method of
treating plug tobacco would suggest to every one the compression into a bale, of distinct packages of plasterers' hair, and
leaves no field for invention in respect to the matter to which
the patent of complainant relates. "
In view of the facts to which 4we have referred, which are of
common observation and knowledge, we are of opinion that the
article of.manufacture described in the specification and claim
of the complainant's patent does not embody invention, and
that the patent is for that reason void.
In support, and illustration of our views, we refer to the following cases decided by this court: .Hothiss v. Greenwood,11
How. 248 ; Phillipsv. Page, 24 How. 164 ; Brown v. Pier,
91 U. S. 37 ; Terhune v. Phillips,99 U. S.592; Atlantic Worka
v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192; Slawson v. Grand Street Railroad
Co., 107 U. S. 649.
The patent of complainant cannot be sustained by the
authority of the case Smitkv. qoodyear Dental 'hlcanite
Company, 93 U. S. 486, where the court said: "The invention

HEWITT v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

is a product or manufacture made in a defined manner. It is
not a product alone, separate from the process by which it is
created." In that case the invention was the product of a new
process applied to old materials. In this case it is the product
of an old process applied to old materials.
Judgment a2fimed.

HEWITT v. CAMPBELL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPRE

COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Submitted October 12th, 1883.-Decided October 29th, 1893.

Burden of Proof-Equity-Evidence.
In a serious conflict of testimony, a bill in equity may be dismissed on the
ground that the complainant fails to establish the facts on which he

claims relief.

X,-. S. S. Hlnkle, for appellant.
.r. Y. E. Edmondston, for appellee.
JuSTicE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Counsel for appellant states the theory of 'the bill to be that
Campbell was not the bonajfde purchaser of the lots described,
or of either of them, although he holds them by conveyances
absolute upon their face; that he was 6nly the broker of Burgess; and that the conveyances were made to him in that
capacity, for the purpose of enabling him to raise money upon
them for the use of Burgess, less reasonable charges for any services in that behalf rendered. The bill was dismissed by the
court below in special term, and that order was affirmed in
general term.
The record discloses a serious conflict in the testimony of
witnesses, and the court below might well have dismissed the
bill upon the sole ground that the complainant had failed to
establish the facts upon which he based his claim for relief,
and which must have been established before any relief could
be granted. The decree musi, therefore, be affirmed.
It is 8o ordered.
MRh.

