BENDEY v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

:B]ENDEY & Wife v. TOWNSEND & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued November 13th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Asaignee Attomaey at Law-Fees--Mortgageg--.

Mian-Statutea-Surety.

The maker of a promissory note executed, to one wno for his accommodation
signed his name on the back-of the note before its delivery to the payee, a
mortgage of real estate to indemnify him against all costs and charges arising from his contract, with a power of sale in case of the mortgagor's -efault in paying the note. The mortgagor failing to pay the note at maturity,
the mortgagee paid the amount thereof to the payed, and entered it upon
his books in general account against the mortgaggr, and the payee indorsed
the amount as a full payment on the note, and delivered up the note to the
mortgagee, The mortgagee afterwards assigned to a third person 'the
mortgage and the obligation therein mentioned : Held, That the assignee
might maintain a bill in equity against the mortgagor for foreclosure and
sale of the land under the* mortgage, and for payment by the mortgagor
personally of so much of the amount of the.note as the proceeds of the sale
under the fofeclosure were insufficient to satisfy.
A stipulation, in a mortgage of real estate, that in case of foreclosure -the
mortgagor shall pay an attorney's or solicitor's fee of one hundred dollars,
is unlawful and void by the law of Michigan,.as declared by the Supreme
Court of the State; and therefore cannot be enforced in the Circuit Court
of the United States upon a bill in equity to foreclose a mortgage, made
and payable in that State, of land therein.

Bill in equity to foreclose a mortgage. The suit was commenced in a State court, and was -removed to the Circuit Court
of the United States, where a foreclosure and sale were decreed.
The defendants below appealed.
Xr. C. J W"alker for appellants.
M,. . .IT,SmitA for appellees.
RfE.JusTICE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by James Bendey and wife from a decree
for the foreclosure of a mortgage of land in Michigan, executed
by them at Houghton in that State, on April 30th, 1873, to
Samuel S. Smith and William Harris; expressed to be made
in consideration of the indorsement, by Smith and Harris of sev-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

eral promissory notes of Bendey, therein described, payable to
the order of Thomas W. Edwards, at the First National Bank
of Houghton; conditioned that Bendey should pay the notes
at maturity, and should save and keep harmless the mortgagees
"of and from all costs and charges arising from or on account
of said indorsements;" and empowering the mortgagees, in
case of default by Bendey in the payment of the .notes, or
either of them, to sell the land by public auction and convey it
to the purchasers, rendering the surplus' money, if any, arising
from the sale, to the mortgagors, after deducting the costs and
charges of the sale, "and also one hundred dollars as an attorney fee, should any proceedings b~e taken to foreclose this indenture under the statute, and the same sum as a solicitor's
fee, should any proceedings be taken to foreclose the same in
chancery."
The other facts appearing by the record are as follows:
Smith and Harris, who were partners, signed their partnership
name upon the back of the notes before their delivery to Edwards. One of these notes, for $5,000, became payable on
May 4th, 1876, and, not being paid by Bendey, was protested
for non-payment, and an action was brought thereon by Edwards against Smith and Harris, who, before judgment in that
action, paid the amount of the note, with interest. Edwards
indorsed the amount as a full payment on the note, and delivered up the note to Smith and Harris; and they entered the
a-mount paid by them upon their books in their general account
against Bendey, and afterwards, on September 5th, 1877, assigned the mortgage, and the land therein described, "together
with the note or obligation therein also mentioned," to ""William Brigham and Amos Townsend, trustees." This assignment was, in fact, made in part payment of debts due from
Smith-and :Harris to firms of which Townsend and Brigham
were respectively members.
Townsend and Brigham, who were citizens of Ohio, filed a bill
in equity against Bendey and wife, who were citizens of Michigan, in a court of this State, alleging the facts aforesaid, and praying for an account, for the foreclosure of the mortgage by sale
of the land, for the payment by Bendey of any balance remain-

BENDEY v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

ing du to the plaintiff of the principal and interest of the note
and mortgage, and for general relief. After the filing of answers and replication, the case was removed, on petition of the
defendants, into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan, and a hearing there had, upon
which the facts above stated were proved, and a decree entered
that the defendants pay to the plaintiffs the sum of $7,996.59
with interest, together with a solicitor's fee of $100, and that
in default of such payinent the land be sold by public auction,
and conveyed under the direction of a master in chancery, and
the .proceeds of the sale applied to the payment of these sums,
and that, if the proceeds of the sale should. be insufficient for
such payment, the am6unt of the deficiency, with interest,
should be paid by Bendey to the plaintiff. From this decree the
defendants appealed to this court.
The contract into which Smith and Harris entered, by signing their names on the back of the note before its delivery to
the payee, though styled in the mortgage an, indorsement, was
rather, as towards the payee or a subsequent indorsee of the
note, that of joint makers with Bendey. Good v. -Watrtin, 95
U. S. 90; -Roth8cild v. G&ix, 31 Mich. 150. But, whether
their liability in that aspect should be ireated as that of promisors, or of guarantors, or of indorsers, it is clear that, having
signed their names to the note for the accommodation of Bendey, their relation towards him was that of sureties, and they
had the right, upon being obliged to pay the amount of the
note on his failure to pay it at maturity, to recover from him
the sum so paid. The mortgage, containing a condition to indemnify them against all costs and charges arising from their
contract, was security to them for the payment by the mortgagors to them of that sum. The entry, in the regular course
of their book-keeping, of the amount so paid in general account
against Bendey, did not merge or extinguish the mortgage or
the personal liability of Bendey to them. The assignment by
them to Townsend and Brigham of the mortgage, together
with the obligation' therein mentioned, was a valid assigmment,
in equity at least, of the mortgage, as well as of their claim
against Bender for the repayment of the sum paid by them on

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the note. The assignees were therefore rightly held to be entitled to a decree for the foreclosure of the mortgage, and also,
under the%ninety-second rule in equity, to a decree against
Bendey himself for so much of the sum paid by Smith and
Harris, with interest, as the money obtained by the sale of the
land under the foreclosure should be insufficient to satisfy.
The decree below is therefore right in all respects, except in
allowing a solicitor's fee of $100. The land is in Michigan,
the notes and mortgage were made and payable in Michigan;
and by the law of Michigani, as settled by repeated and uniform
decisions of the Supreme Court of that State, a stipulation in a
mortgage to pay an attorney's or solicitor's fee of a fixed sum
is unlawful and void, and cannot be enforced in a foreclosure,
either under the statutes of the State, or by bill in equity.
Bulloek v. Taylor, 39 Mich. 137; 'Fan .farter.v. .3efillan,
39 Mich. 301; .Myer v. -Hart,40 Mich. 517; Vo8burglt v. Lay,
45 Mich. 455 ; Botfdrd v. Botsford 49 Mich. 29. Upon such
a question, affecting the validity ami effect of a contract made
and to be performed in Michigan, ccncei ing land inlichigan, the law of the State must govern in proceedings to enforce the contract in a federal court held within the State.
Brine v. Insurance Co., 96 U. S.627; Connecticut .n.R. CO. v.
Cushman, 108 'U. S.51 ; Euator Co. v. Jall, 106 U. 5. 86.
The result is, that the decree must be reversed, without costs
to either party in this court, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to enter a decree for the plaintiffs,
with costs, modified by striking out the allowance of the solicitor's fee.
Decree accordingly.

