SCHOTT v. HUDSONQ'.
Opinion of the Court.

manding the marshal to seize the property of the debtors, it
was for the marshal to determine for himself whether the goods
seized were legally liable to seizure under the warrant, and the
circuit court could afford him no protection against the consequences of an erroneous exercise of his judgment in that determination. He was liable to suit in any court of competent
jurisdiction, for injuries growing out of his mistakes. The
State court in which the suit for trespass was brought was
such a court, and that suit was an appropriate suit. The
parties bringing it were entitled to proceed with that suit in
that forum. As was said in Buck v. Colbath, there was nothing
in the mere fact that the provisional warrant issued from a
federal court, "to prevent the marshal from being sued in the
State court, in trespass, for his own tort, in levying it upon the
property of a man against whom the writ did not run, and on
property which was not liable to it. This view was reaffirmed
in Shzrpe v. Doyle, 102 U. S. 686, and was there applied to a
seizure under a provisional warrant in bankruptcy like that in
the present case.
We have limited our decision to the precise questions presented in this case, without attempting to define the cases in
which an assignee in bankruptcy can maintain a suit under
ยง 5129 or under ยง 4979, or to specify what relief by injunction
can be granted to him under the bankruptcy act, in a proper
case.
The decree of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause
is remanded to that court, with direction to dismiss the
bill.
Sorior v. HuDsoN, Assignee, differs from Leroux's case, only
in the following immaterial respects: The goods seized were in
the hands of Max Schott, in his store at East Saginaw, Saginaw
County, Michigan, and had been transferred to him by the
debtors. The marshal, Matthews, assisted by John E. Wells,
a deputy, seized them on March 29th, 1878. Max Schott, on
the 6th of April, commenced an action of trespass in the
Circuit Court for Saginaw County, Michigan, against Matthews
and Wells, to recover $25,000 damages for the acts of the de-

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

fendants in breaking and entering the store at East Saginaw,
and taking therefrom and carrying away goods of the plaintiffs
of the value of $20,000, and coinverting the same to their own
use, and preventing the plaintiffs from carrying on their lawful
business in the store. After the defendants in the trespass suit
had appeared therein by attorney, and demanded a trial, and
given the like notice of defence as was given in the suit for
trespass brought by J. Leroux & Co., nothing further was done in
the suit. In October, 1878, Hudson (the assignee), Matthews
(the marshal), and Wells filed a bill in equity, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Easteni District of Michigan,
-against Max Schott, making the like allegations, mutati8 mutandis, as to the goods taken from Max Schott, as were made
in the bill filed by J. Leroux & Co., in regard to the goods
taken from them, and containing a like prayer for relief and
for an injunction. Like proceedings took place, except that a
demurrer was embodied in the answer instead of beigm filed
separately. The answer was of a like -character, the proofs
and protest were identical, and a like decree was entered, from
which the defendant appealed. The same questions are involved as in Leroux v. Ibdson, the facts are substantially the
same, and the same conclusions are reached.
Tie decree of the circuit court is reversed, and Mhe cause is remanded to that court, with direction to dismiss the i11.

RAINI)ALL v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILPZOAD
COTMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued November 16th, 1883.-Decided December 10th, 1883.

Evidence-Haster and Servant-Practice-ailroa---Statztes- erdict.
When the evidence given at the trial, with all the inferences that the jury
could justifiably draw from it, is insufficient to support a verdict for the
plaintiff, so that such a verdict, if returned, must be set aside, the court
may direct a verdict for the defendant.

