OCTOBER TERM,

183.

Opinion of the Court.

CARTER v. GREENHOW.
IN

ERROR TO THE CImUIT couRT OF THE U=-=r3

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

Motion to advance, made October 9th, 188.-Denied October 15th, 1888.

Practice.
A case will not be taken up out of its order simply because it is of great
public importance.

Motioii to advance a suit against a tax collector.
MY. CHIEF JUSTICE WAIrE delivered the opinion of the court.
These motions are denied. Rule 32 applies only to writs of
error and appeals brought to this court under the provisions of
section five of the act of Mffarch 3, 1875 ; that is to say, to writs
of error and appeals from orders of the circuit courts remanding causes which have been removed from a State court, and
from orders dismissing suits because they do not really and
substantially involve disputes or controversies properly within
the jurisdiction of the circuit courts, or because the parties to
the suits have been improperly made or joined for the purpose
of creating a case cognizable under that act. These are not
such cases. That of Poindexter is a writ of error to a State
court. In those of White and Carter, begun in the circuit
court, the declarations were demurred to because not sufficient
in law, and the judgments were in favor of the defendants on
the demurrers. The cases as made by the declarations were
disposed of on the merits, and the writs of error are for the
review of such judgments.
Neither are the parties entitled to a hearing in preference to
others under the provisions of section 949 of the Revised
Statutes. The State of Virginia is not a party to either of the
suits, and the execution of the revenue laws has not been enjoined or stayed. A tax collector has been sued for alleged
wrongs done the several plaintiffs while he was engaged in the
collection of taxes due the State, but he is not restrained from
discharging any of his official duties.
. Par. 4 of Rule 26 relates only to revenue cases and cases in

UNITED STATES v. GALE.
Statement of Facts.

which the United States are. concerned, which also involve or
affect some matter of general public interest. Even these can
not be advanced except in the discretion of the court and on
the motion of the attorney-general.
The questions involved may be of public importance, but
that does not necessarily entitle the parties to a hearing in
preference to others. Practically, every case advanced postpones another that has been on the docket three -years awaiting
its turn in the regular call. Under these circumstances we
deem it our duty not to take up a case out of its order except
for imperative reasons.
Afotion denied.

UNITED STATES v. GALE & Another.
ON

CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UINITED STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Subnitted November 9th, 1882.-Decided October 15th, 18S3.

Constitution-Criminal Law-Elections-Fraudulent .2egistration-G-rand

Jury-Practice-eviedStatutes.
1. The court adheres to the rulings in Ex paite Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, and
Ex parte Clarke, 100 U. S. 399, that §§ 5512 and 5515 Rev. St. relating
to violations of duty by officers of elections are not repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, and holds them to be valid.
2. Where a defendant pleads not guilty to an indictment, and goes to trial
without making objection to the mode of selecting the grand jury, the
objection is waived ; even though a law unconstitutional, or assumed to
be unconstitutional, may be followed in making the panel.
8. An objection to the qualification of grand jurors, or to the mode of summoning or empanelling them, must be made by a motion to quash, or by
a plea in abatement, before pleading in bar.

Indictment against inspector and clerk of Election District
No. 8, Northern District of Florida, for removal of ballots cast
by electors at an election for representative in Congress, and
substitution of different ballots. 3r.Solictor-GeneralPillips
for the plaintiffs. No appearance for defendants.
"OL. cIX-5

