BOOTH v. TIERNAN.
Opinion of the Court.

United States that they had been adjudged to be so far uninjured by fire that they were to remain, upon the faith of which
the intending contractor was entitled to rely for the purpose
of estimating the probable cost of the work to be done.
Judgment in favor of the appellee was rendered by the
court of claims upon two other claims for small amounts,-in
respect to which we do not deem it necessary to say more than
that it-appears to us the allowance was proper. The defence
by reason of the statute of limitations, also for the reasons
alleged in the opinion of that court, was, in our opinion, properly overruled.
The judgment of the court of claims is aocordingly
Affimed.

BOOTH and others, v. TIERN>AN.
IN ERROR TO TM CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November lst, 1883.-Decided November 12th, 1883.

Deed-Error-Evidence-lllinois-imitaios-Practice--Statute8.
1. The cause was submitted to the court below without the intervention of a
jury. No error in law can be predicated of a finding of fact by the
court.
2. It being proved that a deed had been lost, and not intentionally destroyed
or disposed of for the purpose of introducing a copy, it is competent
under the statute of Illinois to use in evidence a certified copy of the
deed from th proper recorder's office in the place of the original,
although it was admitted that there was an error in the copy.
8. It is competent to prove the error in such case by evidence of witnesses
who bad read the original deed ; or by a copy of the registry of the
original deed as entered in the file book.

.r. B. C. Cook and -Yr. Marles F fYeedkam for the
plaintiffs in error:
-Mr. William Burry for the defendant in error.
The facts appear in the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE

MATHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

This was an action of ejectment brought by the defendant in
error against the plaintiffs in error to recover the title and possession of a tract of land in Grundy County, Illinois, described
as the northeast quarter of section twenty-nine (29), in township
thirty-two (32) north of the base line, and in range eight (8)
east of the third principal meridian.
By stipulation, the intervention of a jury was waived by the
parties, and the cause was submitted upon the evidence to the
circuit court.
One of the defences rolied .onwas the statute of limitations
of illinoi§, being seo. 4, chap. 83, of the Revised Statutes of that
State, providing that possession for seven years, by actual residence thereon by any person having a connected title in law or
equity, deducible of record from the State or the United States,
&c., should be a bar to an action brought for the recovery of
lands, &c.
Evidence was introduced. on the part of the defendant below,
the ancestor of the plaintiffs in error, tending to prove, as was
claimed, that he h)d possessed the premises in controversy, by
actual residence, for seven years next preceding the commencement of the action; but the' finding of the court was that he
had not been possessed, by actual residence thereon, of the land
in controversy for that period.
This finding, although excepted to and alleged as error, is a
conclusion of fact which we cannot review. No exceptions appear on the record to the rulings of the court upon any questions relating to the evidence upon this point, and it cannot be
claimed that the evidence, as stated in the bill of exceptions,
was not legally sufficient to justify the conclusion reached by
the court. No error in law can, therefore, bb predicated of this
conclusion of fact.
On the trial it was admitted that Ibzan Lacey, the common
source of title, derived title to the premises in controversy from
the United States*in 1839, and a power of attorney from Lacey
and wife dated April 20th, 1839, to Joel Wicks, authorizing him
to sell and convey the premises, was proved. It was further
admitted that an original deed from Lacey and wife by Wicks,
their attorney in fact, to Alva Newman, dated May 6th, 1840,

BOOTH v. TIERNAN.
Opinion of the Court.

had been lost, and it was proved that it was not in the power
of the plaintiff to produce it, and that it had not been intentionally destroyed or disposed of for the purpose of introducing
a copy thereof in place of the original.
The plaintiff below then offered in evidence a certified copy
from the proper recorder's office of the record of said original
deed, iwhich, however, described the land conveyed as the
80?thea9t quarter of section 29, &c., instead the northea8t quarter of that section; but counsel for the plaintiff stated L. connection with the offer that there would be offered other evidence tending to show that there was a clerical error in the
description of the land as entered upon the record and contained in the copy, and that it should be the northeast instead
of the 8outhea.t quarter of the section.
To the introduction of this certified copy objection was made,
because it did not describe the land incontroversy, and because
no evidence was admissible to prove and correct any alleged
mistake.
The ground of this objection is stated to be that the statute
of Illinois (Laws 1861, p. 174, § 1) in force at the time, authorizing the record of a deed or a certified transcript from the record, to be used as evidence oii a trial in place of a lost.original,
provided that it might be read in evidence "with like effect as
though the original of such a deed, conveyance, or other writing was produced and read in evidence," and that as in this
case, if the original had been produced, no evidence would be
admitted to prove and correct the alleged mistake in the description of the premises conveyed, none can be admitted to
prove and correct such a mistake in the record or transcript.
The court overruled the objection and admitted the ceitified
copy of the deed in eVidence, reserving the question upon the
subsequent evidence to be offered, for the purpose of proving
and correcting the alleged mistake. Such evidence was, in the
further progress of the trial, admitted, on which, as a conclusion
of fact, the court found that the land actually described in the
lost deed was that in controversy; and -thereon judgment was
given for the plaintiff below. Exceptions were taken to the
rulings of the court admitting the evidence subsequently offered

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

as to the mistake in the description, upon the ground of its
competency, whiqh will be hereafter considered. The general
question raised by the exception to the introduction of the certified copy from the record, is whether evidence of any description is admissible for such a purpose.
The ruling of the circuit court on this point was correct.
The language of the statute was intended merely to declare
that the record of a deed, or a transcript from the record,
though a copy only, and therefore in its nature merely secondary evidence, should nevertheless have the same effect, when
competent as evidence at all, as the original itself, if it had
been produced, upon the determination of the issues to be tried.
It was not intended to declare that the record or a copy from
it should, in law, be an original instrument for all purposes.
The presumption is, that, as public officers generally perform
their prescribed duties accurately, the record, and all certified
transcripts from it, will be true copies of the original; but they
are none the less copies on that account,- and are made evidence
only in lieu of the original, and on the grounds on which secondary evidence is permitted to be given. And there is nothing
in the statute, either expressed or implied, which forbids the
party from showing, by extrinsic proof, otherwise legitimate,
what the contents of the lost original really were, where it is
shown that the record itself, or a copy from it, is not a true
copy. By the very terms of the statute, the record of a deed is
not original evidence, for it can be used only on proof of the
loss of the original deed, or that the latter cannot be produced
by the party offeing the proof; and the object of the statute
evidently was to require recording, in the first place, as notice
to subsequent purchasers, and in the second, to supply a convenient statutory mode and instrument of secondary evidence.
Its whole effect can be accomplished, without in any manner
uisplacing or superseding the common-law principles which
authorized other modes o proving the contents of lost deds
and other instruments. It'is in this light that the statute has
ueer. viewed and treated by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
Bowman v. W ttig, 39 Ill. 416. In _N-ztt'ger v. W]are, 41
ll. 245, it was decided that a deed, properly executed, and

BOOTH v. TIERNTAN.
Opinion of-the Court.

acknowledged, but recorded with a misdescription of the premisos, would protect the grantee against subsequent purchasers
and encumbrancers. But how could this be, unless the party
were -at liberty to prove the mistake in the record, either by the
production of the original, or, in case of its loss, by other competent secondary evidence? This is what happened in NiWxon
v. Cobleigh, 52 IMl..387. There theplaintiff in ejectment, to
prove his title, relied on a deed, signed, as he claimed, "Samuel
H. Turrill" The original not being in his power t6 produce,.
he offered a certified copy from the record. It purported,
however, to be signed by "James K. Turrill" Against the
objection of the defendant, he was allowed to prove by parol
evidence that the original was signed "by the name of Samuel
K. Turrill." The court said: "This renders it morally certain
that the recorder made a mistake in transcribing the original
upon his records."
The same construction was given to a statute of Alabama,
the meaning of which cannot be distinguished from the statute
of Illinois, by the Supreme Court of that State in Harvey v.
17ore, 28 Ala. 250, where the very point was ruled, that
parol evidence was admissible to show that a deed was not correctly recorded. And the same principle was adjudged in
Wisconsin, in Sexmith v. Jones, 13 Wis. 565, and in New
Hampshire, in TFells v. Iron Co., 48 NS.K. 491, 534.
The next question relates to the coiapetency of the evidence
admitted by the court to prove the mistake in the record of the
deed, and the correct description of the property, as contained
in the original.
This was, insubstance, as follows: First, the testimony qf
certain persons tending to prove that they had seen the original deed, and that it described the land conveyed as identical
with that in controversy; second, a certified copy from an
entry or file-book kept by the recorder of La Salle county, in
which the land was situate at the time the conveyance was
made by the attorney of Lacey to lNewman, of a memoiandum
made by the recorder, showing the date of the receipt of the
Ueed for record, the names of the grantor and girtntee, the
hour of its receipt, the nature of the conveyance, the date of its
-

VOL. cIx-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour.

execution, and the location of the land conveyed, under which
head the premises are .described as the "N. E. I S. 29, T. 32'N.,
R. 8 E. 3d P. M. ;" third, a transcript from the land office at
Springfield, Illinois, in which office was contained the records
of the entry of the land in controversy, showing Jeddiah
Wooley entered the N. E. 29, 32, 8, on August 8th, 1835,
and that he did not enter the S. E. J of said section; also a
receipt from the land office at Chicago, Illinois, in which office
the land in controversy was sold, dated August 8, 1835, for
$200 from Jeddiah Wooley, jr., in full payment of the N. E.
I sec. 29, town. 32 N., R. 8 east of third principal meridian,
being the land in controversy, upon which receipt was a memorandum indorsed in the handwriting of Joel Wicks, who was
dead at the time of the trial, as follows: "Sold this to Alva
Newman, May 6th, 1840." But it is recited in the bill of exceptions that the court did not decide that the last mentioned
memorandum and a memorandum on the copy of the deed of
May 6th, 1840, from Lacey to Newman, that "this land was
entered.by Jeddiah Wooley, August 8th, 1835," were either of
them competent evidence.
.The evidence offered and objected to was, we think, competent. The testimony of witnesses who had read the original
deedY as to their recollection of its contents, was direct evidence
of the fact; and the copy of the registry of the deed, as entered
in the fie-book, was a copy of an official entry, made in a book
of public records required to be kept by the recorder, and which
constitutes the first step in the process of recording. The statute
requires that every recorder shall keep "an entry book, in which
he shall, immediately on the receipt of any instrument to be
recorded, enter, in the order of its reception, the names of the
parties thereto, its date, the day of the month, hour, and year
of filing the same, and a brief description of the premises, indorsing upon such instrument a number corresponding with the
number of such entry." Rev. Stat. Ill. 1845, p. 432, § 7; L.
1847, p. 69, § 1; L. 1869, p. 2, § 7.
All these items of evidence tended to prove the alleged mistake and what was the correct description of the premises conveyed in the lost original deed, and were entitled to be con-

N. 0. NAT. BANKING ASS'N v. ADA31S.
Statement of Facts.

sidered, in connection with the certified copy of the record of
the deed itself, as secondary evidence of its contents. In admitting and'considering them the circuit court connuitted no
error ; what effect should be given to them, singly or together,
was for that court, to whom the cause had been submitted,
alone to determine.
We find no error inthe record, and the judgment is

4Afflrmed.

NEW ORLEANS

NATIONAL BANKING
TION v. ADAMS.

ASSOCIA-

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FORTHE DISTRIOT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 31st, 1883.-Decided INovember 12th, 1883.
Loui ana-Mortgage.
A executed a promissory note to B, another to C, and two others to D, and
secured all by a mortgage of real estate in Louisiana. The notes to D were
paid at maturity. Default being made by the others, B obtained a decree for foreclosure of the mortgage, and the property was sold to H. E,
being unable to pay the purchase money, agreed in writing with the
holders for time, and that the parties might enforce their judgments in
case of non-payment, and that the original mortgages should remain in
full force and effect, and that they were recognized as operating on the
property to secure the debts. This agreement was recorded in the record
of mortgages. E then conveyed to F, who mortgaged to G. The debt to B
nbt being paid on the expiration of the extension, B instituted proceedings
to foreclose, treating the agreement as a mortgage, and made G a party defendant. Held,
That the agreement was not a mortgage; that to constitute a mortgage there,
must be a present purpose to pledge the estate, and that there was no such
purpose at the time of the agreement. *

In equity. A firm doing business in Louisiana 'under the
name of Tueker Brothers, on February 24th, 1860, made and
delivered their promissory note of that date, for $5,000, payable February15th, 1861, to the Bank of New Orleans, which
afterwards, by virtue of the provisions of the "act to provide
a national currency," etc., passed June 3d, 1864, became a
national bank under the name of the New Orleans National

