258.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

In our opinion there is no error in the judgment of the Suprene Court of Florida in the matter complained of, and
I 8 accordinglyafirnmed.

UNITED STATES to the use of WILSON, Administrator,
v. WALKER.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMThIA.
A ,Ped October 26th, 29tb, 188.-Decided Novembeel9th, 18B.

.)isrict of Columbia-Administrator-urety.
1. When an administrator duly rappointed in the District of Columbia, is removed, and an administrator de bona non appointed in his place, the
administrator de bonis non is not entitled to demand of the administrator
so removed the proceeds of a claim against the United States due the
intestate and collected by the former administrator ; and cannot maintain suit against a surety of the former administrator to recover damages
for failure by the former administrator to pay such sum to the administrator d bonia non.
2. A decree by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, directing an
administrator who has been removed to pay over to an administrator de
bonis non appointed in his place a sum collected -by the former from the
United States for a claim due to the intestate, is vid for want of jurisdiction, and furnishes no ground for maintaining an action against a
surety of the former administrator for failure of that administrator to
comply with the decree.

This was an action at law on an administrator's bond. The
bond was made by Charlotte L. Ames, and 'Cunningham Hazlett, as adininistrators of the estate of Horatio L. Ames, deceased, with Frederick P Sawyer and the defendant in error,
David Walker, sureties. It -was in a penalty of $120,000, was
payable to the United Stafe , and was subject to the condition
that the said Ames and Hazlett should well and truly perform
the office of administrators of Horatio Ames, deceased, and dis.charge the duties of them required as such without any injury
to any person interested in the faithful performance of said
office. Hazlett died at a date not .given, and after his death
and until January 9th, 1875,Charlotte L. Ames continued to be

UNITED STATES v. WALKER.
Statement of Facts.

sole administratrix, and on the day last named she was removed from said office by order of a justice of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, and on the same day Nathaniel Wilson was appointed administrator de bonis non. On
January 22d, 1876, Charlotte L. Ames, in the settlement of her
account as administratrix, was directed by the decree of a justice of said supreme court, holding a special term for the transaction of orphans' court business, to pay over to said Nathaniel
Wilson, administrator de boni- non of the estate of Horatio
Ames, deceased, o'd or before February 8th, 1876, the sum of
$34,876.75. She failing to pay this sum or any part of
it, Wilson, administrator de bonis non, on April 12th, 1876,
brought this suit in the name of the United States for his use
on the bond above mentioned against Charlotte L. Ames, David
Walker, and the administrators of the estate of Frederick P.
Sawyer, who, on August 31st, 1875, had departed this life. The
suit was afterwards discontinued as to Charlotte L. Ames and
the administrators of Sawyer, and was prosecuted against
David Walker alone.
The declaration contained two counts. The first count set
out the obligation of the bond without stating the condition.
The second count stated the obligation of the bond and averred
the condition as above set forth, and assigned as breach the
failure of Charlotte L. Ames to pay over to Wilson, the administrator de bonis non, the said sum of $34,876.75.
The defendant pleaded to the first count the condition of the
bond and its performance.
To the second count he pleaded, first, "that by the condition
of the bond the defendant, as surety, became liable to the
plaintiff, as administrator de bnis non, only for such of the
assets of the estate as had not been converted into money by
the said administrators or the survivor, and the defendant says
that the assets of said estate consisted wholly of a claim or
chose in action owing by the government of the United States,
and that the money claimed in this action is the proceeds of
said claim or chose in action collected from the government and
thereby converted into money." etc. The second plea to the
second count averred that the defendant, as surety as aforesaid,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

was liable only for sreh assets of said estate as had not been
administered by said administrators or the survivor, and that
the money claimed in this action is for assets which had been
administered before the removal of said surviving administrator
from office and the appointment of plaintiff. Both these pleas
also aver that defendant was not a party to the proceeding in
which the order to pay over was made and was not served
with process therein, nor did he voluntarily appear.
In his replication to the first plea (the plea of condition performed) the plaintiff set out three breaches, each of them consisting in the failure of the administratrix to pay over the
money to her successor, in compliance with an order of the
.court.
The plaintiff demurred to the remaining pleas. The defendant demurred to the replication to the first plea.
Issue was joined on both demurrers, and the court, in general
term, overruled the plaintiff's demurrer, sustained that filed by
the defendant, and entered judgment for the defendant. The
plaintiff thereupon sued out this writ of error.
i&r. A. S. WTorthinton for the plaintiff.
.X.. ].D. Davidge for the defendant.
MR. JusToE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question presented by the record is, whether it was
competent for the administrator de onis non of the estate of
Ames to sue on the bond of the principal administrator to recover money collected by him from the United States and not
paid over or accounted for.
It is well settled at common law that 11the title of an administrator do boni mn extends only to the goods and personal
estate, such as leases for years, household goods, &c., which
remain in specie and were not administered by the first executor or administrator, as also to all debts due and owing to
the testator or intestate." Bacon's Abr., Title Executors and
Administrators, B 2, 2, citing Packnzan'8 Cae, 6 Coke, 293
(Part VI. 1, 8 b).
In illustration of this rule the same authority says:
"It is holden that if an executor receives -money in right of

UNITED STATES v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

the testator, and lays it up 'by itself and dies intestate, that
this money shall go to the administrator de bon8 non, being as
easily distinguished as part of the testator's effects, as goods in
specie.
"But if A dies intestate, and his son takes out administration
to him and receives part of a debt, being rent arrear to the intestate, and accepts a promissory note for the residue, and then dies
intestate, this acceptance of the note is such an alteration of the
property as vests it in the son ; and, therefore, on his death, it
shall go on to his administrator, and not to the administrator d(
bonis 9on"
An administrator de boni8 non derives his title from the deceased, and not from the former executor or administrator.
To him is committed only the administration of the goods,
chattels, and credits of the deceased which have not been administered. He is entitled to all the goods and personal estate
which remain in specie. Money received by the former executor or administrator, in his character as such, and kept by
itself, will be so regarded, but if mixed with the administrator's
own money it is considered as connected, or as, technically
speaking, "administered." Beall v. -Tew .Mexico, 16 Wall.
535; Coleman v. . .Afurdo, 5 Randolph, 51; Bank of.Penn. v.
Hademan, 1 Penrose & Watts, 161; PottM v. Smitk, 3 Rawle,
361; Bell v. Speight, 11 Humph. 451; Swink v. Snodgras, 17
Ala. 653; Slaughter v. Fronau, 5 Mor. 19; Gamble v. Hamilton, 7 Mo. 469.
In the case of Beall v. NTew .fe.ico, 16 Wall. 565, it was said
by Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for this court, that "by the
English law, as administered by the ecclesiastical courts, the administrator who is displaced, or the representative of a deceased
administrator or executor intestate, are required to' account
directly to the persons beneficially interested in the estatedistributees, next of kin, or creditors-and the accounting may
be made or enforced in the probate court, which is the proper
court to supervise the conduct of administrators and executors.
To the administrator de 3onis non is committed only the
administration of the goods, chattels, and credits of, the deceased which have not been administered."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Such was the law'of Maryland before the organization of
the District of Columbia, and such it continues to be in the
District, unless changed by statute. In the case of Hagttop
v. Hook's Adm'', 1 Gill & Johnson, 270, it was held by the,
Court of Appeals of Marylnd that the authority conferred by
the letters of administration de bonis %on issued under the act
of 1798, No. 101, ch. 14, see. 2, was "to administer all things
described .in the act of assembly as assets not converted into
money, and not distributed, delivered, or retained by the former executor or administrator under the direction of the
orphans' court. Such an administrator can only sue for those
goods, chattels, and credits which his letters authorize him to
administer."
To the game effeci are the cases of Sibley v. William8, 3 Gill
& Johnson, 52; Hagthoripv. NV-eale, 7 Gill & Johnson, 13; and
.emmom v. Hill, 20 Md. 171.
In the case of -Ennisv. Smith, 14 How. 400, it was said by
this court:
"We understand by the laws of Maryland, as they stood when
Congress assumed jurisdiction over the District of Columbia,
that the property of a deceased person was considered to be administered whenever it was sold or converted into money by the
administrator and executor, or in any respect changed from the
condition in which the deceased left it. It did not go to the administrator de bonis non unless, on the death of the executor or
administrator, it remained in specie or was the same then that it
had been when it came to his hands. When the assets have
been changed, it is said in Maryland that they have been administered."
But counsel for appellant contend that this rule applies only
to the case where an executor or administrator has died, and
not to the case where he had been removed; that while the
words "not administered," in the commission of an aministrator de bonis non, still frequently mean not changed in form,
yet, as applied to an administrator de bonis non in place of a
living administrator, they have come to mean almost invariably
not fully and legally administered; and it is said that this dis-

UNITED STATES v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

tinction appears in the laws of Maryland in force before the or-,
ganization of the District of Columbia, and continuing in force
until the passage of the act of February 20th, 1846, "to enlarge
the powers of the several orphans' courts held in and for the
District of Columbia." 9 Stat. 4.
In support of this view we are referred to chapter 101 of
the Maryland act of 1798, 2 Kilty's Laws, by which it is provided in sub-chapter 5, see. 5, that where letters' testamentary
have been granted in a case of the discovery of a will, and consequent revocation of letters of administration, it shall be the
duty of the administrators to file their accounts and to "deliver
to the executor, on demand, all the goods, chattels, and peirsonal estate in their possession belonging to the deceased," and
on failure their administration bonds shall be liable to be put
in suit; and to sub-chapter 6, sec. 13, of the same statute, where
it is provided that if an executor or administrator shall not file
his inventory within thirty days, his letters may be revoked
and other letters granted, and thereupon the power of su13.
executor or administrator shall cease, and he shall deliver up
to the person obtaining such letters all the property of the deceased in his hands.
These statutes d6 not tend to support the distinction relied
on by plaintiff in error; for, as is well established by the
authorities we have cited, the goods' and chattels, personal
estate and property of the deceased are such only as remain
unchanged and in sliecie. When a debt due the deceased is
collected or a chattel of his estate is sold, the money received
becomes the property of the administrator, and he is accountable therefor to those beneficially interested in the estate, and,
under the acts referred to, the removed executor or administrator was not bound to turn it over to his successor.
It my be conceded that the words unadministered assets,
as used in statutes, have sometimes been construed to include
the proceeds of assets sold or collected and not accounted for
or paid over; and that an administrator de boni. non might
call a removed administrator to account for such proceeds.
But whatever may have 'been the rule elsewhere upon this
question, we think that ny the provisions of the act of Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of February 20th, 1 46, to enlarge the power of the several orphans' courts held in and for the District of Columbia, 9 Stat.
4, reproduced in sections 975, 976, 977, 978 of the Revised
Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, the common law
is not changed, and that the statute applies the same rule to
the case of a removed as has been applied to the case of a deceased executor or administrator.
Section 974 provides that if the security on the bond of an
executor or administrator shall become, for any cause, insufficient, the court may order him to give further security. Section 975 provides that if he fails to domply with such order the
court may remove him, and appoint a new administrator.
Section 976 is as follows:
"The court shall further have power to order and require any
assets or estate of the decedent which may remain unadministered to be delivered to the newly appointed administrator
de bonis non, and to enforce a compliance with such or.der by fine
and attachment or any other legal process."
We think the meaning of this act is plain. When it was
passed, the words "assets or estate of the decedent which remain unadministered," had a uniform and well settled meaning in the statute law of Maryland, in force in the District of
Columbia, and that meaning, as we have seen, was assets or
estate remaining in specie and unchanged in form. The act of
1846 must be construed as using the words in this well settled
signification, unless the contrary appears. iBut there is not a
word in the act of 1846-to indicate that Congress intended to
give any new or different meaning to these words.
Independently of this consideration, the meaning of the law
is not doubtful. It would be an unnatural construction to say
that the law required the removed executor or administrator
to deliver to his 'successor assets which had been converted or
wasted, and which no longer existed, and when there remained
only a right to sue for their value. When assets have been
turned into money by an executor or administrator and the
money mingled with his own, the.assets have ceased to exist as
assets or estate of the decedent.

UNITED STATES v. WALKER.

265

Opinion of the Court.

It is the assets and estate of the decedent that are to be delivered. The authorities we have referred to all concur in the
proposition that where personal property of an estate under
administration has been sold or a debt collected, the proceeds
are not property of the decedent, but are the individual property
of the executor or administrator, and he is liable to an action
for not accounting.
When assets have been turned into money by an executor
or administrator, he is bound to account, 'not for the identical money received, but for an equal amount; and if he
fails to account for and pay over this equal amount he is liable
in damages, which are measured by the proceeds of the assets
so turned into money. The statute surely cannot mean that the
removed administrator must "deliver" damages to his suecessor.
Our conclusion is therefore that the act of February 20th,
1846, does not apply a different rule to the case of an administrator de boni8 non succeeding a removed administrator, fro&n
that applied to one succeeding a deceased administrator, and
that no action lies on the bond sued on in this case in favor of
the administrator de ooi8 non to recover money collected by
Mrs. Ames from the United States on a claim belonging to the
estate of the decedent. On the contrary, the defendant, as
surety on the bond of the removed administrator, is liable only
at the suit of creditors, distributees, and legatees entitled to the
funds.
The next point taken by the plaintiff in error is that the
decree of the justice of the Supreme Court of the District, directing the administratrix to pay over the fund to her. successor,
was conclusive in this suit.
We are of opinion that in making the order referred to, the
Supreme Court of the District exceeded its jurisdiction, and
that its order is for that reason void. Its authority, and its sole
authority for making the order, is to be found in section 9.76,
above referred to, of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia:
"1The court shall have further power to order and require any

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

assets or estate of the decedent which may remain unadministered to be delivered to the newly appointed administrator d
onis 102."
It appears from the pleadings in the case that the money
ordered to be paid was the proceeds of a debt due the decedent
which his a(dninistratrix had collected. It was not, therefore,
as ise have seen, assets or estate of the decedent. It was the
property of the removed administrator. The court was therefore without power to direct the payment of the money to the
administrator cie bonis non. Although a court may have jurisdiction over the: parties and the subject-matter, yet if it makes a
decree which is not within the powers granted to it by the law
of its organization, its decree is void. The limitation was well
expressed by Mr. Justice Swayne, in Cornett v. Tilliam8, 20
Wall. 226, when he said:
"The jurisdictifon having attached in this case, everything done,
within the power of that jurisdiction, when collaterally questioned,
is held conclusive of the rights of the parties, unless impeached
for fraud."
The case of Bigelow v. Ilo
wrest, 9 Wall. 339, is in point. It
was an action of ejectment. Bigelow, who was defendant in
the court below, relied for title on a sale made under a
decree of the United States District Court rendered in a proceeding for the confiscation of the premises sued for uider the
act of July 17th, 1862. Referring to this decree, Mr. Justice
Strong, speadng for this court said:
"Doubtless a decree of a court having jurisdiction to make time
decree cannot be collaterally impeached, but under the act of
Congress the district court had no power to order a sale which
should confer on the purchaser rights outlasting the life of
French Forrest."
And the judgment of the court was that so much of the
decree of the district court as was in excess of its powers was
void.
In
xparte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, Mr. Justice Miller deliver

UNITED STATES v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the opinion of the court, after stating that the circuit court
had exceeded its authority in pronouncing sentence upon Lange,
and that its judgment was therefore void, said:
"It is no answer to this to say that the court had jurisdiction
of the person of the prisoner and of the offence under the statute.
It by no means follows that these two facts make valid, however
erroneous it may be, any judgment the court may render iii such
case."

In the case of TRn~dsor v. .MeVeigh, 93 U. S. 214, Mr. Justice
Field, after a review of the cases bearing upon this subject,
announces their result as follows:
"The doctrine involeed by counsel, that when a court has once
acquired jurisdiction it has a right to decide every question which
arises in the case, and its judgment, however erroneous, cannot
be collaterally assailed, is undoubtedly correct as a general proposition, but is subject to many qualifications in its application.
It is only correct when the court proceeds, after acquiring jurisdiction of the cause, according to established modes governing
the class to which the case belongs, and does not transcend in the
extent or character of its judgment the law which is applicable
to it."
In this case the statute gave the court power, on the removal
of an executor or administrator, to order the assets of the decedent, which might remain unadministered, to be delivered to
the administrator de bonis non. The court made an order
directing the delivery of the proceeds of administered assets.
This was beyond the power conferred by the statute, and not
within the jurisdiction of the court. The order was,*therefore,
void.
The result of these views is, that
fTejudgment of the Suprene Court of the Distrietof Columbia muet be afinmed.

