OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabusi

terior, from which, at his discretion, additional emoluments
and allowances might be given to the interpreters. The purpose of Congress to suspend the law fixing the salaries of interpreters in Nebraska at $400 per annum, is just as clear as its
purpose to suspend the section forbidding any further emoluments and allowances. Our opinion is, therefore, that the intention of Congress to fix, by the appropriation acts to which
we have called attention, the annual saaries of interpreters for
the time covered by those acts at $300 each; is plain upon the
face of the statute.
The whole question depends on the intention of Congress as
expressed in the statutes. Whether a simple failure by Congress
to appropriate any or a sufficient sum to pay the salary of an
officer fixed by previous law is of itself an expression of purpose by Congress to reduce the salary, we do not now decide.
That is not this case. On the contrary, in this case Congress
has in other ways expressed its purpose to reduce, for the time
being, the salaries of the interpreters.
This purpose is of -course irreconcilable with the provisions of
the Revised Statutes on the same subject, and those provisions
must be considered as having been suspended until they were
finally repealed by the act of -May 17, 1882. As the appellee
has -been paid in full his salary, as fixed by the later acts which
were in' force before and -during and continued in force after
his term of service, he has no cause of action against the
United States. It follows that the judgment of the Court of
Claims in his favor must be reversed,
And it

i8 80

ordered.

HOVEY & Another, Appellants, v. McDONALD & Another.
APPEAL lRO!m THE SgPHEmE COURT OF THE DISTIICT OF COLIummBIA.
igued October 10th, 18.-Decided November 5th, 1M.
-

Amenp ent-Appea--Disrict of Columb'a-Eqty-Ezecuton-f~uacbton
--Iacte-.eceive -Superdeas.
A, being entitled to a fund in the hands of the agent of Great Britain before
the Mixed Claims Commission of 1873, B, his assignee in bankruptcy, filed-

HOVEY v. McDONALD.
Syllabus.

1.

2.

8.
4.
5.

a bill against him and C (C claiming the fund as purchaser), to restrain
them from collecting the money. A restraining order first, and then a
preliminary injunction were issued. D was then appointed receiver of the
find. Meanwhile E commenced suit in the same court against A and C,
claiming one-fourth of the fund, and obtained preliminary injunction
restraining them from collecting more than three-fourths. Subsequently
an order was made in B's suit in which, after reciting that it was made by
consent of parties in both suits, both restraining orders were vacated, payment of one-half of the fund was ordered to C discharged of claims of the
plaintiffs in either suit, and the payment of the other half was ordered to
D, and D was directed to hold it subject to the claims of B and E. This
decree was carried out. Both bills were demurred to, and in each suit decree of dismissal was entered at special term on the demurrer. In B's suit
appeal was taken and the decree was affirmed. In E's suit, the decree of
dismissal was entered on the 24th June, 1875, and an appeal was taken on
the same day. On the 28th of the same June the decree was amended
by adding an order that the receiver pay the fund to C, and notice thereof
was at once given to the receiver with demand of payment. The receiver
repaired to court, and asked the court what he should do. The court
directed him to obey the decree. He then surrendered the fund to C. E's
appeal was perfected on the 12th July by filing an appeal bond. Judgment was reversed on appeal, and an order entered that the receiver should
pay the money into court. Failing to do this, he was adjudged in contempt, and an order issued for an accounting. The auditor took testimony
and returned it with a report that the receiver had done his duty in paying
the money to C. This report being confirmed, an appeal was taken from
that decree. The receiver moved to dismiss the appeal, on the ground that
he was not party to the suit. .red,
That though the receiver was not party to the suit, he was principal party
to a side issue which had arisen in it, which was appealable, and that
the judgment upon it was final, and the appeal was properly taken.
That under the rules and practice of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, the suspensive force of the appeal in B's case was not operative until the filing of the bond.
That the completing of the decree in that suit by amendment on the 28th
June was within the power of the special term.
That these proceedings against.the receiver being in equity, are not governed by the rules regulating a aupersedea8of execution.
That a decree in equity dissolving an injunction is not affected by a supersedeas, unless the court below order the continuance of the injunction
pending appeal. Whether that should not have been done in this

caae-Quaers.

The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. C
pellants.

. FH.forw and 2fi. G. F. Edmund8 for the ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

.1fr. Conway -Robinson for the receiver.
M nTsTIcE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court..
An award against the United States of nearly $200,000 having been made to one A. R. McDonald, a British subject, by
the mixed commission appointed under the treaty of 1871,
his bankrupt assignee,, Thomas J. Phelp, filed a bill in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to restrain him
from collecting the money, and to have it made subject to
his debts, making one White also a defendant, who claimed to
have purchased the claim. A restraining order, and subsequently a preliminary injunction, was granted according to the
prayer of the bill, and George. W. Riggs was appointeZI a
receiver to collect and hold the money until the further crder
of the court. In the meantime a bill was filed by Charles E.
Hlovey. and William Dole (the present appellants) against
McDonald and White, setting up a lien upon one-fourth of the
fund under an alleged agreement by which they were to
receive that proportion as compensation for their services in
aiding the prosecution of the claim, and praying that the lien
might be established, and that the defendants might be enjoined from collecting or receiving more than three-fourths of
the award. A preliminary injunction was also granted in
accordance with the prayer of this bill. On the 16th of February, 1875, the following consent decree, or order, was made,
to wit:
"In the Supreme Court of the District bf Columbia,
"THOMAS J. PHELPS, AS I E,.
In Equity.
vs8.

AUGUST=-E R. McDoNALD AND WILLIAXWHIT.E.

)

No. 3,910.

"This cause came on to be further heard on this 16th day of February, A. D. 1875 ; and thereupon, and upon consideration thereof,
and with the consdnt, of the parties to this suit, and of Charles E.
Hovey and William P. Dole, parties complainant in a certain
cause in equity in this court, numbered 3,937, against the same
defendants, and claiming one-fourth of the award in the proqeedings mentioned,
"It-is, this 16th day of February, A.D.1875, ordered, adjudged1
and decreed-

HOVEY v. McDONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

"1. That the restraining orders heretofore made in both said
causes are hereby vacated.
"12. That the decree, made in this cause on the 28th day of
December, A. D. 1874, appointing George W. Riggs, Esq., receiver, and granting a provisional injunction, is modified as follows, viz: That the defendant William White may receive from
the agents of the British government the one-half of tle net
amount of the award in the proceedings mentioned, free and discharged of all claims of the plaintiffs in both the causes above
mentioned, to enable the said defendant to pay the expenses incurred by the defendant A. R. McDonald .in the prosecution of
this claim ; which sum' of one-half of said award the court.finds
to be the reasonable expense incident to the -prosecution of the
said claim by said defendant A. R. McDonald before said Mixed
Commission, exclusive of said claim of Hovey and Dole.
"3. That the remaining half the net amount of said award
shall be paid to the said George W. Riggs; and it is ordered,
adjudged and decreed that the defendants shall execute all such
orders, receipts and acquittances necessary to enable the said
George W. Riggs to collect the same. And the said George W.
Riggs shall hold the said half of the said award subject to the
claims, liens, and rights of the said Charles E. Hovey and William P. Dole, and of the plaintiff in this cause, to be detrmined
by the further decree of this court in this cause and in the cause
of said Hovey and Dole hereinbefore mentioned. It is further
ordered that said receiver be directed to invest the money so
placed in his hands in bonds of the "United States or in 31
bonds of the District of Columbia guaranteed by the United
States, as he may deem best for the interest of the parties concerned, and that a copy of this decree be filed in the last-mentioned cause."
This -decree was carried out; the money was collected from
the agent of the British government, one-half of it being
received by Mr. Riggs as receiver, and the suits progressed in
due course. Both bills were demurred to, and both demurrers
were sustained, and the bills dismissed by the court in special
term.
In the case of Hovey and Dole a decree was entered on
Thursday, the 24th of June, 1875, simply decreeing that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

demurrer to the bill be sustained, and that the bill be dismissed
with costs. An appeal to the general term was entered, the
same day on the minutes of the court.
On Monday, the 28th of June, 1875, the decree was
amended by adding thereto, the clause, "that the receiver appointed in this cause, and in Phelps, asignee, v. McDonald
and White, No. 3,910, be directed to pay the funds belonging
to said cause to the said defendants, McDonald and White, or
order, and thereon said receiver shall be discharged;" and at
the same time a decree was entered in the suit of Phelps,
assignee, that the demurrer be sustained, and the bill dismissed with costs, and the same direction ,was given to the
receiver to deliver the funds to McDonald and White. An
appeal was entered in this case also, on the day the decree
was rendered; but no appeal bond or undertaking was filed
in either case until the 12th of July.
Soon after the entry of the last decree, and on the same day,
a copy of it was served on the receiver by the attorney of
McDonald and White, and the fund in his hands, then consisting of District bonds, was demanded of him: but before he
delivered the bonds, the attorney of Hovey aid Dole appeared
and gave him verbal notice that an appeal had been taken, and
insisted that it was a supersedeas of the decree. Thereupon,
the receiver and the attorneys repaired to the court, and the
receiver asked the judge what he should do, and was simply told
to obey the decree-the complainants' attorney, at the same
time, offering to furnish the security named by the court on
the appeal. The receiver then delivered the bonds to the
defendants.
In the case of Phelps, the bankrupt assignee, the decree of
the special term was afterward affirmed; but in that of Hovey
and Dole the decree of the special term was reversed, and the
counsel for the complainants obtained an order on the defendants to pay back into court the money, or funds, which they
had obtained from the receiver. Failing to do this, they were
adjudged in contempt, and a decree pro confesso was entered
against them. Thereupon the complainants obtained an order
on the receiver to file his account; and this being done, and it

HOVEY v. McD OIALD.
Opinion of the Court.

appearing thereby that, in obedience to the decree of. the
special term, he had delivered the fund to the defendants, the
account was referred to an auditor, and the c6mplainants filed
exceptions thereto on ihe ground that he had 'delivered up the
funds without due authority. The auditor took testimony as
to the circumstances of the appeal, the notice given to the
receiver, and his conduct in the matter, and reported that in
his opinion the receiver had only done his duty. This report
was confirmned by a decree of the general term, and from that
decree the present appeal was taken.
The first matter to be determined is the motion on the part
of the receiver to dismiss the appeal for the reason that he was
not a party to the suit. This motion cannot 'prevail. The proceedings instituted by the order requiring the receiver to file
his account, and the subsequent reference of that account to an
auditor, and the exceptions thereto, were all directed against the
receiver for the purpose of rendering him personally responsible
for the fund which had been placed in his hands, and which he
had delivered over in obedience to the original decree. It was
a side issue in the cause, in which the complainants on the
one side, and the receiver on the other, were real and interested parties. The decree confirming the auditor's report was,
as to this matter, a final decree against the complainants and
in favor of the receiver. We have so often considered cases of
this sort, arising incidentally in a cause, but presenting independent issues to be determined betveen the parties to them,
that it is unnecessary to enter into a detailed discussion of the
subject at this time. The receiver, though not a party in the
principal suit, was an officer of the court appointed in the suit,,
and was a principal party to the .particular question raised by
the*proceedings referred to. It is only necessary to refer to
some of the cases that apply to the subject. It will be found
fully discussed in Blo88om v. Milwaukee Railroad Company, 1
Wall. 655; Butterfidd v. Urhlr, 91 U. S. 246; TPhu8teem v.
Greenough, 105 U. S. 527; 'and H2inckley v. Gilman, Clinton
and Springlfeld Railroad Company, 94 U. S. 467. In the
case last cited a decree was rendered agains a receiver, directing him to pay into court a"certain sum of money, being the

OCTOBER TERM, 1983.
Opinion of the Court.

balance found due from him on the settlement of his accounts.
Ie appealed from this decree, and his right to appeal was sustained by this court. This case is a direct authority to show
that the receiver in the present case, had the decree been
against him, could have taken an appeal; and, if he would have
had a right to appeal, surely the opposite parties have the same
right.
-We are brought, then, to consider the effect of the appeal
taken from the decree of the special term upon the efficacy of
said decree as a justification of the receiver in handing over to
the defendants the fund in his possession. To arrive at a satisfactory conclusion, it will be necessary, in the first place, to
'take notice of the question, as to the power of the court in
special term to amend its decree after the appeal was entered.
By the laws relating to the District of Columbia,. the Supreme
Court of the District hihs general terms and special terms, the
latter being held by a single judge, and proceeding in the conduct of causes'as if it were a separate court. Rev. Stat. D. 0.,
ยงT53. The special term renders final judgments and decrees;
and any party aggrieved by an order, judgment, or decree of
the special term, if the merits'are involved, may appeal to the
general term. ยง 7V2. The court in general term is authorized
to adopt rules to regulate the time and manner of making
appeals, and to prescribe the'terms and conditions upon which
they may be made. ยง 7O. Such rules have been adopted.
One is, that executions may issue after judgment in special
term, unless the party condemned move to vacate it, or set it
' side for fraud, deceit, surprise, or irregularity, or resort to a
review of it before the general term. Rule 89. Another is,
that appeals inust be brought within thirty days after the judgment or decree is made or pronounced; and that they shall not
stay execution (as between private parties) where the judgment
is for a specific sum, unless, within twenty days after judgment
or decree, an undertaking be given, with security, to abide by,
perform, and pay the judgment or decree. Rule 91.
We do not perceive that there is anything peculiar in these
appeals from the special to the general term to take them out
of the operation of the general principles and rules which gov-

HOVEY v. McDONAID.
Opiion of the Court.

em appeals from one court to another. One general rule inall
cases (subject, however, to some qualifications) is that an appeal
suspends the power of the court below to proceed further in the
cause. This includes a suspension of the power to execute the
judgment or decree. But, of course, besides merely taking
an appeal, those add itional things must be done which the law
requires to be done, in order to give to the appeal a suspensive
effect, whether it be security for the payment of the claim or
other condition imposed by law.
One of the qualifications of the general rule as to the suspen-,
sive effect of an appe4 'is, that the inferior court may perfect
its judgment or decree; usually at any time during the term 4
which it is rendered. If, when an appeal is taken or a writ of
error is 'sued out, the record has not been made up, it may be
made up in due form. If any obvious mistake has occurred, it
may be corrected; as where the jury by mistake has given
damages in a penal action, or has given damages for a larger
sum than the declaration demanded, the plaintiff may enter a
remittitur of the damages on the record, after a writ of error is
brought. Tidd's Pract. 942.' And it is laid down as a general
rule, at law (the principle of which is equally applicable to
chancery proceedipgs), that those things which 'are amendable
before error brought, are amendable afterwards, so long as
diminution may be alleged and certiorari awarded-provided,
of course, that the time for amendment has not passed by.
Tidd, 714. In chancery proceedings it is a rule that when a
clerical error has crept into the decree, or some ordinary direction has been omitted, the court will entertain an application
to rectify it, even though it has been passed and entered.
Where a decree has omitted a direction that is of course at the
time it is made, it may be corrected by the insertion of that
direction; as where, in a creditor's suit, the decree has omitted
the usual direction to take an account of the personal estate, it
was ordered to be inserted. Dauiell's Ch.Pr., chap. XXV.,
sect. V. This rule is formulated in the 8th Equity Rule established by this cour for the government of the circuit courts,
which declares that "clerical mistakes in decrees, or decretal
orders, or errors arising from any accidental slip or omission,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

may,, at any time before an actual enrolment thereof, be cor.rected by order of the court or judge thereof, upon petition,
without the form or expense of a rehearing." Such corrections,
by analogy to the practice in cases at law, may undoubtedly
be niade after an appeal'is taken.
In the present case, the correction of the form of the decree,
by adding the direction to the receiver to pay over the money
in his hands to the defendants, was a thing of course; it was
merely expressing the legal effect and consequence of the
decree. It was an amendment which the court below (the
special term) was competent to make notwithstanding the
appeal. The terms of the injunction were that the defendants
should be restrained from receiving the money until the final
hearing of the cause. Of course, when the cause was finally
heard, and the bill dismissed, the injunction ceased to have
effect by its own terms. The appointment of Mr.Riggs as
receiver was for the purpose of holding the money as agent of
the court, and withholding it from the defendants until the
decision. The words of his commission were, 1'to collect and
hold the money until and subject to the further order of the
court." It was therefore a necessary consequence of the decree
of dismissal, that the injunction should be dissolved, and that.
the receiver should be discharged and directed no longer to
withhold the money from the possession of the defendants.
The dissolution of the injunction, and the-discharge of the
receiver were directions of course to be inserted in the decree
of dismissal, unless the court should affiatively order otherwise. The court below, it is true, in view of the appeal, might
have made an order to continue the injunction and to retain
the property 'inthe receiver's hands; but that was a matter of
discretion; to be exercised according to the justice of the case.
If the judge did not see fit to exercise it, it was of course to
add to the decree of dismissal its legal effect and consequence.
The making of the correction without notice to the complainants, if such notice was requisite, was an irregularity of which
the receiver was not bound to know. We axe of opinion, therefore, that the completion of the decree on the 28th of June, by
adding the usual direction, was within the power of.the special

HOVEY v. McDONALD.
Opinion of the Cort.

term; and the rights of the parties to this appeal must be
determined as if the decree had originally contained that direction.
This brings us to the question of the effect of the appeal as a
supersedeas, or as a sbspension of the decree thus corrected.
The appeal was taken in time, and verbal notice that it had
been taken and would be followed up by the proper undertaking was given to the receiver at once, before he had parted
with the funds in his hands. At the same time he was served
with a copy of the decree ordering him to deliver those funds
to the defendants. The question is whether, under these circumstances, he paid the money in his own wrong, notwithstanding the order of the court.
A supersedeas, properly so called, is a. suspension of the
power of the court below to issue an execution on the judgment
or decree appealed from; or, if a writ of execution has issued,
it is a prohibition emanating from the court of appeal against
the execution of the writ. It operates from the time of the
completion of those acts which are requisite to call it into existence. If, before those acts are performed, an execution has
been lawfully issued, a writ of supersedeas directed to the officer
holding it will be necessary; but if the writ of execution has
been not only lawfully issued, but actually executed, there is
fio remedy until the appellate-proceedings are ended, when, if
the judgment or decree be reversed, a writ of restitution will
be awarded. To remedy the inconveniences that arose from
an immediate issue of execution before the appellate proceedings' could be perfected, the original judiciary act of 1789 provided, and the present Revised Statutes now provide, that no
execution shall issue upon judgments in the courts of the United
States, where a writ of error may be a supersedeas, until the
expiration of ten days after the judgment. R. S. 1007. This
regulation applies to proceedings in equity as well as to cases
at law. But it does not extend to the present case. The regulation of appeals from the special to the general term of the
Supreme Court of the District is specially provided for in the
laws and rules before referred to, which cover the whole subject. By these. rules it is declared that, after judgment is

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

entered in the circuit court, or at a special term, execution may
be issued, unless the party condemned moved to vacate or set
it aside, or resort to a review of it before the general term:
but no appeal shall operate as a stay of execution where the
judgment is for a specific sum of money, unless the appellant,
with surety, within twenty days after the judgment or decree,
execute and file an undertaking in the form prescribed. The
appellants insist that this rule makes it unlawful to issue an
execution within the twenty days. We doubt very much
whether that is the true meaning of the rile.
would be
more in accordance with the general mode of construing such
regulations to hold that the supersedeas does not take effect
until the condition is complied with, and will not take effect at
all unless complied with during the time limited.
But this case is not within the terms of the rule. There was
no decree for a specific sum of money; there was no decree at
all in favor of the complainants; and no execution was applicable to, or could be issued in the .ease, except an execution
for the costs of the defendants. The truth is, that the case is
not governed by the ordinary rules that relate to a supersedeas
of execution, but by those principles and rules- which relate to
chancery proceedings exclusively. It depends upon the effect
which, according to the principles and usages of a court of
equity, an appeal has upon the proceedings and decree of th6
court appealed from, and the doctrines which apply to a supersedeas can oi4y be brought in by way of analogy.
In England, until the year 1772, an appeal from a decree or
order in chancery susppnded all proceedings; but since that
time a contrary rule has prevailed there. The subject was reviewed by the House of Lords in 180r, and an order was made
establishing the right of the chancellor to determine whether
and how far an appeal should be suspensive of proceedings,
subject to the order of the House on the same subject. See
Palmer's Pract. H. L. 9, 10; 15 Vesey, 184; 3 Paige, 383385.
In this country the matter is usually regulated by statute or
rules of court, and generally speaking an appeal, upon giving
the security tequired by law (when security is required), sus-

rt

HOVEY v. McDONAILD.
Opinion of the Court.

pends further proceedings, and operates as a supersedeas of execution. This, as we have seen, is the case in the circuit courts
of the United States. But the decree itself, without further
proceedings, may have an intrinsic effect which caL only be
suspended by an affirmative order, either of the court which
makes the decree, or of the appellate tribunal. This court, in
the Slaugter-Houwe Case8, 10 Wall. 273, decided that an ap-

peal from a decree granting, refusing or dissolving an injunction,
does not disturb its operative effect. Mr. Justice Clifford, deliveringthe opinion of the court, said "it is quite certain that neither
an injunction nor a decree dissolving an injunction passed in a
circuit court is reversed or nullified by an appeal or writ of error
before the cause is heard in this court;" and held that the same
rule applies to writs of error from State courts in equity proceedings; and the decision of the court was based upon that view of
the law. It was decided that neither a decree for an injunction
nor a decree dissolving an injunction was suspended in its
effect by the writ of error, though all the requisites for a supersedeas were complied with. It was not decided that the court
below had no power, if the purposes of justice required it, to
order a continuance of the status qub until a decision should be
made by the appellate court, or until that court should order
the contrary. This power undoubtedly exists, and should
always be exercised when any irremediable injury may result
from the effect of the decree as rendered; but it is a discretionary power, and its exercise or non-exercise is not an appealable
matter. In recognition of this power, and for the purpose of
facilitating its proper exercise in certain cases, on appeals from
the circuit courts, this court by an additional rule of practice in
equity, adopted in October term, 1878, declared that,
"When an appeal from a final decree, in an equity suit, granting or dissolving an injunction, is allowed by a justice or judge
who took part in the decision of the cause, he may, in his discretion, at the time of such allowance, make an order suspending
or modifying the injunction during the pendency of the appeal
upon such terms as to bond or otherwise as he may consider
proper for the security of the rights of the opposite party."
Rule 93
VOL.

CIX-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

Of course,'where the power is not exercised by the court,
nor by the judge who allows the appeal, the decree retains its
intrinsic force and effect.
Applying these principles to the present case, it is clear that
the force of the decree was ,ot affected by the appeal,.athough
it was in the power of the special term to have continued the
injunction and to have retained the fund in. its control in the
hands of the receiver had it seen fit to do so. Judging only
from what appears in the record, we cannot refrain from saying that, in this case, the latter course would have been eminently proper. It would have protected all parties and produced injury to none. But if the court failed to do what it
might properly have done, such failure ought not to be visited
upon the receiver, who was the mere instrument and hand of
the court, arid subject to its order. It was his duty to obey the
decree as made.
This disposes of the case, and requires that the decree appealed from should be affnned,--

And iti8 80 ordered.

LOUIS v. BROWN TOWNSHIP.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUJT COuRT OF TEE UlITED STATES FOR THE
,NORTHERN DISTRICT OF o1-0.
Submitted October 11th, 1883.-Decided November Sth, 1888.

stope -udgment--Xiandamus-funicipal Bonds.
Defendants in error issued to A, their bonds with interest coupons attached.
A- endorsed to B, and B endorsed to the plaintiff after the bonds were
overdue. While the bonds were in B's possession, overdue, B was party
defendant in a suit in chancery in a State court in which D, an owner of
real estate alleged to be encumbered by a mortgage to secure .payment of
the bonds, sought to have them declared invalid ; and party plaintiff to a
cross-bill in that suit in which it was sought to have the same 'bonds
i,valid, and the mortgage foreclosed. In these proceedings the
&1
bondsyWere adjudged to be invalid for want of authority in the trustees to

issue them. During the same period B, as holder of the bonds, applied to
the State court for a writ of mandamus to compel the trustees of the township to levy a tax for payment of interest on the bonds. In this suit

