WALSH v. PRESTON.
Syllabus.

For these reasons, I feel constrained to dissent from the
judgment.

WALSH, Commissioner, v. PRESTON.
PRESTON v. WALSH, Commissioner.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued March 13th and 14th, 1883.-Deeided November 19th, 1883.
Equity-FinalDecree-Turld&ction--Tezas.
Prior to 1844, the Congress of Texas authorized contracts to be made for settling emigrant families on vacant lands to be designated in the contracts.
Subsequently, that Congress passed an act to repeal this law, and presented
it to the President of Texas for his signature. He vetoed the repealing act.
Congress then passed it over the veto. While the repealing act was thus
suspended, the President contracted with one Mercer and associates to
settle families on a designated tract, capable of identification. Preston, the
appellant in one suit and appellee in the other, was assignee under Mercer.
In February, 1845, the Congress of Texas enacted that on failure of the
associates to have the tract surveyed and marked by the first day of the
next April, the contract should be forfeited.
In October following suit
was began to have the contract annulled for'non-compliance with these
provisions. A decree was entered declaring it forfeited, but it did not
appear that proper ervice of the subpona, or other process or notice, was
made to give the court jurisdiction. After lapse of several years, suit
was brought against the commissioner of the land office of Texas to obtain
certificates for location of land for which claim was made under the contract, either within the limits of the grant, or in case the land there had
been appropriated, then land of equalvalue elspwhere. Thebillalsoprayed
for an injunctionto restrain the commissioner from issuingpate ns for lands
outside the grant, until the claims under the contract should be satisfied.
The defendant denied the principal allegations of the bill, and demurred on
the ground that the State of Texas had not been made a party, averring
that it wasa necessary party. The court below found for the plaintiff on the
facts, and made a decree enjoining the commissioner and his subordinates
forever from issuing patents within the boundaries of the contract tract
except to Preston or his order : Held,,
1. That the decree was defective in not defining specifically the rights of the
plaintiff in the land ; in not adjusting the conflicting rights of Texas
and the plaintiff ; and in-tying up forever the hands of the government
and all other interested parties without affording final relief.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

2. That as the court could give no affirmative relief, and in the absence of the
State of Texas could not settle its rights in the tract, it was without
jurisdiction.
3. That even if the court had jurisdiction, the case was without equity on the
merits.

Bill in equity to compel the delivery of patents of public
land in Texas. The facts appear fully in the opinion of the
court.
XM. John -iaeon Brown and .21&. George .
Preston.
-r. A. J Peeler for Walsh.

.Davie for

MR. JUSTICE MNILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases as they stand on our docket are cross-appeals
from the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Texas, in a suit wherein William Preston was plaintiff, and William C. Walsh, in his character of
-commissioner of the general land office of the State of Texas,
was defendant.
The suit was commenced originally by George Hancock, a
citizen of Kentucky, by a bill in chancery against John S.
Groos, who was then commissioner of the land office, and after
the death of Hancock, was revived in the name of Preston as
plaintiff, aud Walsh became substituted for Groos as his successor in office. The original bill is long, and after Preston
became plaintiff he filed a very full amended bill.
To these the defendant demurred, and the demiutrrers being
overruled, the defendant Walsh filed his plea in bar and his
answer, under oath, to which there was a replication.
The-bill is founded on a colonization contract between the
State of Texas and Charles Fenton Mercer; a class of contracts
well known !a the history of Mexico, resting on a policy which
was continudd by Texas after separation from that government.
The conitramct on vhich the present suit is brought is dated
January 29th, 1844, and is signed by Samuel Houston, president
of Texas, and Charles F. Yercer, for himself and such associates
as he may choose, and is attested by Anson Jones, secretary of
State.

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

In making this contract the president acted under authority
of an act of the Congress of Texas of February 5th, 1842, which
declared,
"That the provisions of an act entitled ' Am Act for the granting of lands to emigrants,' approved January 4th, .1841, so far as
relates to the authority thereby given to th president to enter
into a contract with W, S. Peters and others to introduce colonists, upon certain terms therein expressed and set forth, be, and
the same are hereby, extended to such other company or companies which may be organized for like purposes, as the president
in his judgment may approve.
"2. That all the rights accruing to said company by the provisions of said act, and all the duties, obligations, and conditions
imposed by the same upon the said W. S. Peters and his associates, be and the same are hereby extended to such other companies as may be organized under the provisions of this act."
To the act of 1841, therefore, we are to look for the kind of

contract which the president of Texas could make in 1844 with
Mercer and his associates, for though a joint resolution of the
CongTess, dated January 16th, 1843, is relied on as introducing
some modification of the act of 1841, that resolution seems
carefully limited in its operation to contracts already in existence, and does not affect the power of the president in any contract he may make with other parties.
It is true this joilit resolution authorizes an extension of the
period within which the contracts, to which it specifically refers
by name, may be performed, from three years to five years,
and the contract in Mercer's case allowed five years,.when the
act of 1841 required performance within three years; but no
point is raised that the Mercer contract is, for that reason, void,
and we are not called on to declare the effect of this departure
from the act of 1841 in this case.
This agreement is in conformity with the act of 1841 authorizing the contract with W. S. Peters and his associates, and
as a substantial summary of the material pts of the Mercer
contract, except the location of the land and the names of the
parties, that statute is given here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinioh of the Court.

The first three sections of the act relate to the rights conferred on all inmigrants to the State.
See. 4 enacts that the president of the republic be and he is
hereby authorized to make a contract with W. S. Peters, Daniel S. Carroll, and others (naming them), collectively, for the
purpose of colonizing and settling a portion of the vacant and
unappropriated lands of the republic, on the. following conditions, to wit:
"The said contractors on their part agree to introduce a number of families, to be specified in the contract, within three years
from the date of the contiact : Provided, They shall commence
the settlement within one year from the date of said contract."
It then proceeds

-

".ART. 2009. [5] Be itfurther enacted, That the said contract
shall be drawn up by the secretary of State, setting forth such
regulations and stipulations as shall not be contrary "tothe general principles of this law and the Constitution ; which contract
shall be signed by the president and the party or parties, and attested by the secretary of State, who will also preserve a copy in
his department.
" ART. 2010. [6] Be itfurther enacted, That the president shall
designate certain boundaries, to be above the limits of the present settlements, within which the emigrants under the said contract must reside : -Provided,however, That all legal grants and
surveys that may have been located within the boundaries so
designated previously to the date of said contract, shall be respected ; and any locations or surveys made by the contractors
or their emigrants on such grants and surveys, shall be null and
void.
"ART. 2011. [7] Be itfurther enacted, That not more than one
section of six hundred and forty acres of land, to be located in a
square, shall be given to any family comprehended in said contract; nor more than three hundred and twenty acres to a single
man over the age of seventeen years.
"AR1T. 2012. [8] Be it further enacted, That no individual contract made between any contractor and the families or single persons which he may introduce, for a portion of the land to which

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

respectively they may be entitled, by way of recompense for passage, expense of transportation, removal or otherwise, shall be
binding, if such contract embrace more than one-half of the land
which he, she, or they may be entitled to Lnder this law; nor
shall any contract act as a lien on any larger portion of such
land ; nor shall any e.iigrant be entitled to any land, or receive
a title for such land, until such person or persons shall have built
a good and comfortable cabin upon it, and shall keep in cultivation, and under good fence, at least fifteen acres on the tract
which he may have received.
"ART. 2013. [9] Be it further enacted, That all the expenses
attending the selection of the land, surveying, title, and other
fees, shall be paid by the contractor to the persons respectively
authorized to receive them: -Provided,however, That this provision shall not release the colonist from the obligation of remunerating the contractor in the amount of all such fees, so soon as it
can be done without a sale of their land : An dfurther, The president may donate to every settlement of one hundred families,
made under the provisions of this act, one section of six hundred
and forty acres of land, to aid and assist the settlement in tie
erection of a building for religious public worship.
"AnT. 2014. [10] Be itfrther enacted, That the president may
allow the contractors a compensation for their services,.and in
recompense of their IMbor and expense attendant on the introduction and settlement of the families introduced. by them, ten
sections for every hundred families; and in the same ratio of
half sections for every hundred single men introduced and set- tied ; it being understood that no fractional number less than
one hundred will be allowed any premium.
"AnT. 2015. [11] Be it further enacted, That the premium
lands must be selected from the vacant 1ands within the territorial limits defined in the contract ; Andfurther, All fees incidental
to the issue of patents for lands acquired under the provisions of
this law shall be paid to the commissioner of the general land
office, for the use and benefit of the public treasury.
" ART. 2016. [12] Be it further enacted, That a failure on the

part of the contractors, and a forfeiture of their contract, shall
not be prejudicial to the rights of such families and single
persons as they may introduce ; who shall be entitled to their
respective quotas of land, agreeable to the provisions of this law.

OCTOBER TERM-,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.
"A-RT. 2017. [13] Be it further enacted, That the contractors
shall be required to have one-third of the whole number of the
families and single persons for which they contract within the
limits of the republic before the expiration of one year from the
date of the contract., under the penalty of a forfeiture of the
same; and it shall be the duty of the secretary df state forthwith; after the expiration of such term, and failure on the part of
the contractors to comply with this provision, to publish and declare said forfeiture ; unless the president, for good and sufficient
reasons, shall extend the term six months, which he can do; and all
substitutions of families living within the limits of the republic,
by the contractors, shall not entitle them to any premium for
such families, nor shall ii operate in favor of them, for the
number of families- which they are bound to'introduce. And this
act shall take effect from and after its passage."
The contract with Mercer designated a large tract of land,
about six thousand square miles in extent, the outer boundaries
of which were described so as to be capable of identification by
survey, within which he. was to settle at least one hundred

families within each period of a year for the five years succeeding the date of his contract, and the right to introduce new
emigrants terminated at the end of that time.
What he was to do under this contract, and what he was to
receive for it when done, as found in the instrument executed
by him. and the president, differ but little from the requirements
of the foregoing statute. Where there may be found any
difference material to the view we take of this controversy it
will be pointed out in the course of the opinion.
The complaint, after setting forth this agreement, alleges
that Mercer performed the obligations imposed on him, introducing and settling within, the prescribed limits and within the
five years allowed him twelve hundred and fifty-six (1256)

families, and that in all other respects he fulfilled the obligation
of his contract. It charges that for all this he has received no
lands at the hands of the State, as he is entitled to, nor any
evidence or certificate of his right to them, and that the State
of Texas and the officers in charge of the land department deny
all right of said Mercer or Hancock, his assignee, or Preston,

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

Tancock's devisee, or any of their associates, to receive such
lands or such certificates, or any compensation for the services
rendered under Mercer's contract in colonizing the families so
introduced.
And it is specifically charged against the defendant that, as
commissioner of the general land office having charge of such
matters, he not only utterly refuses to recognize their rights
and refuses to issue to them patents or certificates for the number
of sections and half sections to which they are entitled, but that
he is constantly issuing to others land certificates and patents,
whereby the land within the reservation in which their claims
must be satisfied is rapidly passing into the hands of private
owners with title from the State.
The prayer of the bill is that defendant Walsh, by a
mandatory injunction, be required "to refrain and desist from
longer withholding from your orator the certificates for location of land to which your oraton is entitled under the contract
between Charles Fenton Mercer and the Republic of Texas, of
date of January 29th, 1844. and from further refusing to
execute and deliver to your orator the certificates for land to
which on final hearing it may be decreed that your orator is
entitled ;" and if it be found there is not land enough within
the bounds of the Mercer colony grant, remaining free from
occupancy, sufficient to satisfy the orator's claim, that he may,
by appropriate decree, receive certificates from, the defendant
for lands of equal value by way of recompense for lands
wr6ngfully alienated to others. It is also prayed that the defendant and all his subordinates be enjoined and restrained
from doing any act whereby there may issue any patent,
certificate, plat, grant, survey, or location of lands outside
and beyond the limit of the Mercer grant, save only to your
orator, and until compfainant's just claims are satisfied.
The ansi er of thp defendant denies that the contract is a
valid contract, alleges that in a suit by the governor of the
State of Texas n a court of competent jurisdiction, against
:.hl 11rcer inI Liz asso-i.t-S, the contra-t was by a decree of
that court annulled and declared void, and all rights under it
forfeited, and reies onf that decree in bar of the present suit.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

:He denies that Mercer or his privies ever performed their
,obligations under the contract, and denies that they ever introduced into the -State and settled on the land described any in,I grants or colonists, and expressly denies that the 1256
:families found in the Crockett list, on which complainant relies,
were introduced or in any manner brought into Texas by
Mercer or his associates. He 'denies that he ever surveyed the
outside boundaries of -the grant, or made the surveys into
sections or half sections which he was bound by his contract to
make, by .which alone could the settlements, houses and improvements of the settlers, or. any of them, be.so identified or
described as to entitle complainant to receive certificates or
patents for them, or for the premium lands mentioned in the
contract.
The plea and demurrer rely on the incapacity of plaintiff to
maintain against this defendant the suit in which the State of
Texas is a necessary party, when the State is not made a party,
and cannot be made a party in that court.
The decree of the court, after the introduction of much
testimony, documentary and otherwise, and after full hearing,
declares:
"That complainant's allegations are found to be true, and
supported by proof, and that the defendant and all his subordinates of any description are restrained and prohibited and forever enjoined from issuing or delivering to any person or corporation any certificates, patents, or plats for any land within
the boundaries of the Mercer colony as set forth in the bill, except to complainant, William Preston, or to such person as he
may in writing direct."
It further decrees that defendant and all his clerks and subordinates are enjoined from hindering oi obstructing said Preston or his agents in the surveying, selecting, platting, recording,
entering, or claiming any and all lands lying within the limits
and boundaries of the so-called Mercer colony; and they are
also enjoined from hindering, obstructing, preventing, or delaying the said Preston, and his associates, from performing,
completing, and perfecting all the several conditions, duties,

WALSH v. PRESTON.

305.

Opinion of the Court.

obligations, and acts devolving upon him, the said Preston, or
said association, under the terms and stipulations of the colonization contract. And it orders that defendant pay the costs
of the litigation.
It is not very easy to see on what principle this decree can
be sustained.
There is o decree by which the right of plaintiff to any
specific land is affirmed, nor to any ascertained quantity of land
to be located generally.
There is no attempt, as there can be none in this suit, to adjust
the conflicting rights of the State of Texas and the plaintiff in
this land. There is no attempt to define the number of acres
to which the plaintiff is entitled, or what he is yet to do, or
what he may do, to perfect his right to any land whatever.
And yet, without establishing any such right or deciding
what plaintiff may yet do to establish a right, the hands of the
government are tied absolutely as to all the vacant land which
belongs to it within the colony limits. Not only are the hands
of the government thus tied, but other persons having rights,
inchoate or vested, in those lands, with undisputed claims to
patents, to certificates, to surveys perhaps, are all arrested in
the precise condition they may be at the time this decree was
rendered. The whole land-office business and functions of the
commissioner within that colony, no matter whose interests are
involved, are paralyzed by this decree. And what is more, they
are paralyzed forever; for the language is that the commissioner
and all his clerks, agents, &c., are enjoined forever from doing
the forbidden acts.
This is also done in a case where the court, having exhausted
its powers (for the decree is final), has found itself unable to
grant any positive relief to plaintiff, gives him no land, no certificates, no right to land in other places, but leaves him also
suspended, except what he may do now to perform the obligation which the contract imposed upon him. The time within
which he was to do all that the contract required or permitted
him to do expired by its terms January 29th, 1849, now nearly
thirty-five years ago. We can see nothing whatever in the
case by which he can now be authorized to do with effect what
VOL. CIx-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

he was required to do within the five years his contract was in
force. Can he now introduce and settle colonists in a country
filled with an active population? Can he now survey and cul•tivate the land and build the cabins which he did not survey,
settle, and improve then? Can he, after the vast vacant prairies
which he then agreed to convert into homes for families have
been covered by a population of thousands, perform in that
same territory, where now are thriving cities, the things he
bound himself to do thirty-five years ago, so as to secure the
lands rendered valuable by the enterprise of others?
If he can do none of this; if the court can give him no
affirmative relief; if it has no other jurisdiction of this case but
to tie up everybody's hands and preserve forever the present
status of things, why should it do that'?
A court of equity will not thus do a vain thing, the only
effect of which is to embarrass thousands of people without a
hearing or an opportunity to assert what they claim to be their
rights, and tie the hands of a great State in dealing with her
public lands, in a suit to which she is not a party.
But the plaintiff below insists, by his appeal from this decree,
that the circuit court should have granted him the relief which
he prays, and especially insists that for every hundred families 6f
the twelve hundred and fifty-six which he located in the liniits
of his grant, there should now be issued to him certificates,
which he may locate on the vacant lands within the contract
limits, or, if they cannot be found, then on other vacant lands
of the State.
We will examine into the merits of this claim.
It must be remembered that this examination is made on
proceedings in a court where the real party in interest is not
before it, and over which that court has no jurisdiction. That
if the decree asked for is rendered, it must be satisfied out of
the property of this party. 'That the circuit court, in undertaking to control the State of Texas in the disposition of its
public lands, by a decree, against one of its officers, is, in effect, rendering 'adecree of specific performance against the
State.
But waiving this for the present, we proceed to inquire

WALSH v. PRESTON.
'OpInIon of the Conrt.

whether, if the State were before this court as an ordinary
party, plaintiff has made a case for specific performance.
It must be confessed that Texas, both as an independent
republic and as a State of the Union, did all she could to
prevent the making of this contract, and since it was made has
denied its validity and refused to do anything under it, and has
always denied any such performance on the part of Mercer and
his successors and associates as entitled them to any rights
under it if it be valid.
The contract bears date January 29th, 1844, and on the next
day, January 30th, 1844, the Congress of Texas passed a statute
repealing all laws authorizing the president to make colonization contracts, and forfeiting such of those already made as had
not been complied with by the contractors. The legislative
history of this repealing act shows that it had been presented
to the president and vetoed, and while. the matter was thus
suspended the contract was signed the day before Congress
passed the bill over his veto, which terminated all power in him
to make such contracts. The aversion with which this contract was received has never been removed from the minds of
the governing authorities in that State, and its Congress, on
the 3d February, 1845, passed the following joint resolution:
"Joint Resolution to establish the limits of the Mercer Colony.
"ART. 2245. [1.] Be it resolved by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the Republic of Texas in Congress assembled,
That General Charles Fenton Mercer and his associates be, and
they are hereby, required to have the lines of their colony land
actually surveyed and marked by the first day of April next.
"ART. 2146. [2.] Be it further resolved, That a failure to comply with the provisions of the above section shall work a forfeiture of their contract.
"ART. 2147. [3.] Be it further resolved, That no person shall be
recognized as provided for in said contracts who were not
specially introduced by the said contractors, so far as the premium lands are concerned; but the citizens so introduced shall be
entitled to the same amount of lands as though they had been
introduced, as provided for in said contract ; and that this act
take effect from and after its passage."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1883.
. Opiniou of the Court.

On the 11th day of October, 1846, the suit of the governor
of the State against Mercer and his associates was commenced
in the District Court of iNavarro County, in which a decree was
rendered September 25th, 1848, declaring the contract null and
void on the verdict of a jury. Of this decree it is as well to
say now, that while it would, if valid, dispose of the whole
case, we are not satisfied, iii the absence of personal service on
the defendants and of any personal appearance by them, that
there was such substituted service by publication as gave the
court jurisdiction. The decree, therefore, is no bar to the
rights of the present plaintiff, and the matter is here referred
to as showing the unvarying hostility of the State authorities
to this contract.
Mr. Mercer was, by these proceedings and many others found
in the statute book of the State, put upon his guard that in
order to establish any rights whatever under that contract, he
must comply strictly and promptly with all the conditions and
obligations which it imposed upon him.
In order to see exactly whdt it was that Mercer and his associates undertook to do, it may not be amiss to inquire for
what purpose Texas desired the settlement of these colonists on
her lands. This policy of colonization is one which Mexico
had inaugurated long before Texas separated from that confederacy. It was founded on the idea that the government
was abundantly rich in lands and, deficient in population;
that it owned large bodies of vacant lands which were rather
a trouble than a profit, w3 resorts of Indians and beasts of
prey,. while they were much in need of an active and industrious
agricultural population.
"In the
case of Texas it was desirable also that this
pppulation should be fighting men, as they were in a state of smouldering war with Mexico, which. might break out at any moment,
as that govdrnment had not acknowledged the independence of
Texas, and still asserted dominion over that country-an assertion which led to the war a year or two later between Mexico
and the United States.
What Texas desired then, in these colonization contracts, was,
first, an accession to her population capable ot military duty;

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

second, the settlement of this new population on her large
tracts of vacant lands; and, third, that this should-be done in
a manner which would add to the value of those which would
remain.
The first obligation, therefore, which the contractors, under
the 4th section of the act authorizing the contract with Peters
and others assume is, that they agree "to introducea number
of families to be specified in the contract within three years
from the date of the contract."
The persons, thus to be introduced are alvays spoken of in
the statute as emigrants, and the 13th section contains a provision "that all substitution of families living within the limits
of the republic by the contractors shall not entitle them to any
premium for such families, nor operate in favor of them for the
number of families which they are bound to introduce."
In the first clause of the contract now under consideration,
after the recital of the authority by which it is made, Mercer
agrees to introduce and settle within the limits hereafter described, and in accordance with the provisions of the act aforesaid, and within five years from the date hereof, as many emigrant families as he and his associates can settle within said limit.
Throughout this contract also the persons to be so introduced
and settled are spoken of as emigrant families.
Another provision of the contract, in defining what shall
constitute a family, speaks of males over seventeen years of age.
And still another requires the contractors "to cause each male
emigrant of the age of seventeen years and upward to be supplied and bring with him a good rifle, yager, or musket, and a
sufficient supply of ammunition; and the party of the second
part (the contractors) shall keep on hand, at all times, in some
convenient place of.deposit, such quantity of prime ammunition
as will supply to each male emigrant of the age of seventeen
years and upwards, settled by them, not less than one hundred
rounds."
It was another condition of this contract that the contractors
should survey the outside lines of the land within which they
were to settle these emigrants, "and cause the unappropriated
lands within the prescribed limits to be, surveyed, as needed

OCTOBER, TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

for purposes of settlement, into sections of six hundred and
forty acres, or half sections of three hundred and twenty acres,
each, at his option, and shall cause to be built log cabins, &c.,
&c. For each family so settled the contractors were to receive
a section of six hundred and forty acres, or two half sections
of three hundred and twenty acres. But these were to be
located on alternate sections as they were surveyed and numbered, and the other alternate sections were to remain to the republic; thus introducing the systenwhich the government of the
United States has adopted in all her railroad grants, of reserving every alternate section, that it might profit by the increased
value which these sections acquired by the settlement of an
agricultural population in their midst.
What compliance has plaintiff shown with this first and most
important duty of introducingfrom without the republic emigran families and settling them upon lands within the limits
prescribed by the contract?
We feel constrained to say that there is no satisfactory
evidence to our minds that Mr. Mercer, or any of his associates,
or any agent of his, ever introduced into the State of Texas a
siiagle family from without the State, or that any such family
ever came into the State by means of any request or any offer of
help, or of land, or of any inducement offered by Mercer or his
associates.
The first piece of evidence offered on the subject is a list of
119 names, with corresponding numbers on the left of the
column; a statement at the head 6f the column called "Date of
Introduction," then the names of the heads of the families,
and in another coluum the names of the witnesses. These witnesses are, with a single exception, P. J. Pillans, Thomas C.
Bean, and James Hilhouse..
This list of names is signed to a statement that they have
each received of Charles FentoA Mercer and his associates a
certificate, issued in accordance with Mercer's contract with
the State, and that the families have been introduced and
settled in manner and form as expressed in the contract. These
certificates are nowhere introduced or found in the record,
nor is a copy of any one of them produced.

WALSH v. PRESTON.

311.•

Opinion of the Court.

The parties signing "this paper do not state that they were
emigrants from abroad introduced into the State by Mercer
or his associates, and none of them swear to the-statement
whichl they sign. Daniel Rowlett, who describes himself as
one of the Texas Association, and Pillans and Bean, who say
they are disinterested persons, each make affidavit at the end
of the list that it contains a true and accurate statement of
emigrant families introduced and settled by Charles Fenton
Mercer and his associates upon and within the limits of the
Mercer grant.
But the deposition of Pilan in regard to this list is taken,
and he swears that he got up the list and issued the certificates
to the parties found by him on the lands when he went there
in 1844 as the agent of Mercer, and to others who came afterwards, until he left in May, 1845. He is asked in a long and
pointed cross-interrogatory if he knew where these settlers
came from, who introduced them, &c., &c. To this he answered
as follows:
"1Manyof the queries herein I cannot now, nor could I at any
time, have answered. I rarely, if ever, knew where the colonists
came from, or what induced such to come to the colony. The
first that came selected grounds in the northeastern part of the
colony, east of the Sabine River. They built, under contract with

us, their own cabins, brought their own arms, but a large supply
of ammunition was stored ready for distribution, bought by
General Mercer. I presume the colonists came at the solicitations
of the colony agents elsewhere, and because land could then be
had without price. "After I had ceased to be the agent I never
entered the colony, save, perhaps, when riding through some
portion of it when on a journey."

:No deposition of Bean or Rowlett is found in the record.
A deposition of IRichard T. Berchett is taken for plaintiffs,
who says he was one of Mercer's associates in the contract,
and was intimate with him, but says he knows nothing about
the introduction of colonists by Mr. Mercer.
An effort is made to prove an advertisement by Mercer of his
colonization scheme and its inducements to emigrants, makiong

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

it an exhibit in the interrogatories filed for several witnesses;
but each of them says he knows nothing of the paper, nor can
it be inferred from anything in it whether it was a circular or
a newspaper advertisement, or what circulation it ever had.
With the exception of Crockett's report, which will be
presently considered, this is about all that can be called evidence of the introduction by Mercer, or through his agents or
associates, of emigrants into the State of Texas.
The report of John M. Crockett, of 1,256 families settled
within the colony limits, which is introduced by plaintiff and
relied on by him exclusively as giving the number and names
of the emigrants for whose settlement he claims land under the
contract, was, as it states on its face, made under the act of
February 2d, 1850, of the legislature of the State.
It is manifest from a perusal of that act that it was designed,
as its title imports, "for the relief of the citizens of Mercer's
Colony," and that it was in no sense either a recognition of the
validity of Mercer's contract or 6f his performance of its conditions.
FSection one enacts that every colonist, or the heirs or

administrators of such colonists, citizens of the colony of Charles
Fenton Mercer and his associates, on the 28th of October, 1848,
shall receive the quantity of land to which such colonists may be
entitled, to wit, 640 acres to each family and 320 acres to each
single man over the age of seventeen years: Provided, That
nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to place the contractors of said colony in a better condition in regardto the State
of Texas than they would be if this law had not been passed."

A commissioner is to be appointed to hear proofs and to decide who is entitled to lands, and to issue.to them certificates,
which may be located on vacant lands within the colony.
Sec. 8, which prescribes what is necessary t9 be proved to
entitle the party to a certificate, is as follows:
That to-entitlethe colonists to the benefits
of this act, they shall be required to prove, by their own oaths,
supported by the oaths of two respectable witnesses, that they
emigrated to Texas and became citizens of said colony prior to
"'AnT.2316. [8]

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Opinion of the Court.
the twenty-fifth of October, 1848; that they are citizens thereof;
that they have performed all the duties required of them as
citizens; and said applicants shall also swear that they have
never received any land of this government by virtue of their
emigration hither : Provided, That they shall not be required to
prove that they have cultivated land."

Hlere is no requirement that the parties shall have complied
with the conditions of Mercers grant, and no consent of
Mercer required, nor even any condition that they should have
been introduced .by Mercer or settled under his contract. It is
not even required thAt they should have come to Texas or
settled in the colony within the five years during which his
contract was in force; but if they immigrated to Texas any
time before 1848, though it had been twenty years before his
contract was made, and became citizens of the colony before
October, 1848, their claim was respected.
And the fifth section declared "that no change shall be
made in the boundaries of the surveys of settlers, whether they
be with or without the consent of the contractors, so that the
boundaries thereof are justly and definitely marked."
Provision is also made for appeal by the claimant from the
decision of the commissioner, but never a word of recognition
of any legal right of the contractors or of their contract as
furnishing the rule of decision.
The report itself contained no allusion to Mercer or his contract or his associates, except as a designation of the locality
in its heading, thus:

11 Record of certificates issued to citizens of Mercer's colony,
concluded 30th September, 1851, by John M. Crockett, commissioner."

Here follows a list of 1,256 names, with the quantity of land
for which a certificate has been issued by him, Crockett, to
each; in every instance 640 or 320 acres, but no description or
definite location of section or half section.
At the end Crockett swears- that the foregoing is a full,
complete, and correct list and description of the certificates
issued by him to the settlers of said colony.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

There is not here the slightest evidence that these men were
brought to Texas by Mercer or any of his associates, or that he
placed them on this land, or that he or they belong to the class
which his contract required, or that he or they performed the
conditions of that contract or any of them. Amd as the statute
under which Crockett acted did not require proof of compliance
with the Mercer contract, the inference that they had been so
introduced is of little, if any, force.
It is quite remarkable that no attempt is made by plaintiff to
prove that any of these settlers were introduced into Texas or
settled on this land under his contract. The period when such
settlement must have been made, if at all, was only about thirty
years before the beginning of this suit, and in an agricultural
community there must have been at the time this suit was tried
many of the four thousand persons of whom these settlers were
composed still living, whose testimony could have been procured. They could have told when they came to Texas, and
who brought or sent them or induced them to come, and when
and how they came to settle within the limits of this Colony
grant. They could not only have spoken for themselves, but
for the body of the settlers Wvho came about the same time. It
is significant that plaintiff has wholly neglected to avail himself of this testimony, which, if in his favor, was the best to be
had, since he has no documentary evidence which is satisfactory, though the archives of the State have been open to the
inspection of himself and his agents.
:Nor does the inference which the absence of this and other
satisfactory evidence forces on the mind stand upon its mere
absence, for the defendant has introduced some strong negative
evidence of that character.
Mr. Crockett's testimony is taken by the defence, and a large
number of the names found in his report are given in an interrogatory, and he is asked in others if any of these were settlers
in Mercer's colony, and if he knows the date when they became
settlers, and by whom they were introduced, to which he
answers he has no means of knowing the date of their settlement.
*Toother interrogatories he answers that he 'went upon
the

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ground among the different settlements to facilitate the settlers
in their proofs according to the act under which he was appointed; that the general opinion among the settlers was, that
there was no validity'in the claims of the Mercer colonists, as
such, and the settlers did not base their claims to lands on
Mercer's colony contract, believing that Mfercer had forfeited
his claims under it. That, he says, was the opinion, without
exception, as he recollects. They thought he had failed in not
surveying the lands or performing any other act stipulated in
his contract.
To the 17th interrogatory he answers:
"It was the common report in the colony in 1849 and 1850 that
Mercer and his associates had done nothing in the settlement of
the country, in the surveying of the lands, furnishing houses,
ammunition, &c.; but it was then understood that the settlers
had located there without the aid of Mercer and his associates,
and that they had no connection or relation with Mercer and his
associates. The settlers had their own land surveyed. During
all my visit I never heard a settler in Mercer's colony claim that
he was introduced or brought into the country by Mercer or his
associates, or base his claim to lands under the Mercer coloiy
contract."
These were the men on whose introduction and settlement
plaintiff relies altogether to prove his performance of that contract, and not one of whom has he called as a witness to that
performance.
The defendant also took the deposition of John A. Harlan,
who came to Texas in 1846, and settled in Navarro County, within the limits of the colony, and resided there twenty-one years.
He says a good many persons came with him from Illinois at
that time and settled in Navarro County. - He says they came
and settled of their own accord, brought their own guns and
ammunition, built their own houses, and had nothing to do
with Mercer in coming to the colony or in settling there, and
he remembers the hames of twenty men over seventeen years
old of that class. In answer to a cross-interrogatory, he says
he never knew of any effort of Mercer to settle the colony.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant also took the depositions of P. P. Martin and
H. W. Young, both of whom were settlers in the colony.
Young says he came to Texas in 1843. He says his father settled in the colony before the contract with Mercer was made.
Maltin says he came to Texas from Tennessee in 1846, to the
northern part of the Mercer colony. No one induced him to
do so. He was introduced to Mercer, but had no conversation
with him -about the colony.
Mr. Terrill, a surveyor by profession, says a great many
families settled in the colony during the years 1844, 1845, and
1846. Some of them claimed to be colonists and some were
old Texans. He was surveying in the colony during these
dates, and never knew or heard of Mercer or any of his
associates assisting any settler in any way.
While there is this failure to prove satisfactory performance
of the main obligation to introduce emigrants into Texas and
settle them on the grant, and this testimony of witnesses on
the ground that it was not done, there is a total absence of
proof of an important condition in regard to the surveys.
We are of opinion that the outer boundary of the grant was
surveyed so as to comply substantially with the contract in
that respect. But the obligation to survey the land into
sections and, half sections, which Mercer undertook in the
agreement, so that the settlers could know and identify that
to which they became entitled, and so that the republic could
know which were her alternate sections and half sections, and
sell them to others, and so that both parties could know where
the premium sections for each one hundred families, to which
the contractors might become entitled, could be located, all of
which, we think, were essential parts of the contract, remained
wholly unperformed.
There is not the slightest evidence of such surveys by Mercer
or his associates in the record. Mr. B. J. Chambers, a witness
for plaintiff, who was a professional surveyor residing in Texas,
says he made an agreement with Mr. Mercer to sectionize 'or
survey certain lands for him in Navarro and Ellis counties,
west of the Trinity River, and, at his request, accompanied him
into the bounds of the grant. But he says he did not do any

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

surveying or any work for Mercer or his associates.
adds:

He

"I did not do it, because I was advised by nearly all the
settlers I saw not to do it ; that Mercer had not assisted theim in
their settlement in any way."
And this is the nearest approach to sectionizing these lands,
as Mr. Chambers calls-it, which the record discloses.
The importance of this matter can be readily seen now. If
the court should be of opinion that all these settlers reported
by Crockett were colonists under a compliance with his contract by Mercer, and if, as plaintiff claims; the contract is a
grant in prcsenti, how can either Mercer, or these colonists
through him, have a decree for specific performance by an instrument which will carry a legal title to land described by
metes and bounds as sections and half sections, would enable
the court to do if the necessary legal surveys had been made?
Plaintiff does ask for such relief. If they had surveyed this
land, and settled the colonists on the enumerated- sections and
half sections of such surveys, they could now name the section
and half section for which they ask a decree.
If they had made these surveys, and had settled each of their
colonists on a distinct section or half section, which could be
thus identified as his cabin and improvement, and had performed the other conditions of introducing these settlers as
emigrants from abroad, the argument that the present case
comes within that of Davi8 v. Gr'ay, 16 Wall. 202, would have
more force. In that case the railroad company to which the
grant was made had made the necessary surveys, and the track
of the road having been 'definitely located through those surveys, the sections and parts of sections to which they were
entitled were specifically identified without any difficulty, and
the officer was restrained from certifying or patenting them to
others.
In the present case, while the circuit court seemed inclined
to grant similar relief, it found itself unable to do so for want
of these very surveys, which the plaintiff's predecessor had

0OTOBER TERM, 1883.
Ophionw of th Court

promised to make as an important part of the contract now
relied on as the foundation of the relief sought.
If this were a case between infividuals. there could be no
doubt of the decision which a court of equity would be compelled to make on this application for specific performance.
The failure on the part of the party applying for it to perform
his own part of a contract wholly executory,. or to show any
sufficient reason for -the failure, has always been held to be
ground to refuse relief and turn the party over to his action at
law.
What has the plaintiff or his predecessors done to secure his
title to the lands now prayed for? Almost nothing. If we
are correct in holding that he introduced no emigrants and
made no surveys, what else has he done? Has he or they given
any time or labor in earnest effort towards the business? If
so, the evidence of it is not found in the record.
Have they spent any money in the enterprise? A feeble
attempt to show an Outlay of $12,000 or $15,000 is made, but
by no means successfully. If plaintiff were now suing in
an action for damages before .ajury, and he had proved a right
to recover, the sum which he could get for his services and
expenditures under the testimony in this record would be small
indeed compared to the magnitude of the claim here set up.
We do not think it necessary to consider the argument that
the contract is a grant inpraenti,with title to the land in
the plaintiff, nor the idea that there is a trust by which these
lands are held for his benefit, and that this trust is in some way
made stronger by the legislation under which the Republic of
Texas became a State in the Union.
In any view that can be taken of the contract, it was when
made wholly executory. Mercer had not then paid anything
or done anything to entitle him to land. It was all to be earned
by actions to be performed thereafter. The republic conveyed
him no title. It was a mere executory contract for the sale and
purchase of land, in which the price was to be paid within five
years, and the lands so earned, an unknown quantity, were to be
then conveyed by an instrument called a certificate.
The total failure of Mercer to perform left him no rights

WAlSHIv. PRESTON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

under the contract. The State seeks nothing against him for
non-performance, and so the affair is ended.
The plaintiff and his predecessors in interest have not only
not performed, but they have not shown any sufficient excuse
for non-performance. They have not, in the language of the
authorities, shown themselves ready, willing, and able to.
perform. On the contrary, they have permitted the matter to
rest for thirty years without an effort to do so, and now,
if they would, the state of matters in the colony is so changed
that it is impossible that they can perform their agreement.
The result of these 'yiews is, that
Vjpon the appeal of T]aleh the decree of the circuit court i8
revel,8ed and the case remanded, with directions to d'tsmiss
the bill, and tW8 necessarilydivoses of the plaintifsa1ppeal.
MR. JUSTICE HL&W, with whom concurred MR. JusoE
FIELD, dissenting.
Mr. Justice Field and myself differ from the court in our
view of the facts of this case, and therefore dissent from its
judgment.
The circuit court found that the complainani had satisfactorily
established the contract between the Republic of Texas, through
its president, and Charles Fenton Mercer and his associates,
as alleged in the bill and amended billj the entrance of Mercer
upon the duties devolving upon him under the contract; the
organization of the Texas Association; -the appointment of surveyors and colonization agents; the running of lines and surveys;
the introduction of one hundred and nineteen families within
the first year of the grant; the making of the survey of the
boundary limits of the colony grant by April 1st, 1845; the
-settlement of twelve hundred and fifty-six families within the
limits of the colony prior to October 25th, 1848 ; the appointment of Mercer as chief agent and trustee for the association;
the subsequent appointment of Hancock as chief agent; Hancock's death and the appointment of Preston, ratified by the
association, as chief agent; the entrance of those persons upon
the performance of tjaeir duties as agents of the association, and
the activity displayed by them, respectively, in furthering the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.'
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

objects and interests of the colony and the association; the
employment of counsel; the expenditure of money; and the
persistent applications made to the political departments of the
State of Texas for relief. It further found that Mercer, as
agent, made repprts to the government of Texas, as required
by the contract, up to and, for the year 1847 ; that Mercer is
dead long since; and that all his papers and documents, among
which were copies of his correspondence and reports in relation
to the Mercer colony, have been lost and destroyed.
The evidence adduced by the complainant has, it seems to us,
been ubjected by this court to the same rules of strictness and
technicality which would be applied to an indictment for a
criminal offence. We are of opinion that the circuit court did
not misapprehend the effect of the testimony, and that a case
is made entitling complainant substantially to the relief granted
in the decree below.
By the contract between Mercer and the Republic of Texas
the latter agreed to convey to the former and his associates, or
their legal representatives, one section of 640 acres of land, or
two half sections of 320 acres, for each family which they should
introduce and settle upon the lands set apart for colonization
by Mercer and his associates; each alternadte section or half section of 640 or 320 acres being reserved to the republic, to be purchased or not by Mercer and his associates on certain stipulated
tenns. It was also agreed that a perfect title should be made
in the usual mode and form to Mercer and his associates or
their legal representatives, for each section, half a section or
6ther fractional part of a section to which they became
entitled under the contract, and that the same should be conveyed to the parties as soon and whenever they should exhibit
to the commipsioner of the general land office of the republic,
or other proper officer thereof, in the manner and form prescribed in the contract, the evidence of having surveyed the
portion of land for which such conveyance was desired, and that
there were comfortable small houses or cabins erected thereon,
and families residing therein who had been settled thereon by
Mercer and his associates or their legal representatives.
The Republic of Texas 'further agreed that Mercer and his

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

associates should receive, as further compensation for their
services and for their labor and expense in introducing and
settling the families provided for in the contract, a premium of
ten sections of 640 acres or twenty sections of 320 acres of land
for every hundred families introduced and settled as required;
further, that upon Mercer and his associates paying into the
.public treasury twelve dollars, and obtaining the treasurer's or
other proper officer's receipt for that sum paid into the same,
and also of the delivery for cancelment of any bonds, promissory notes, or other audited liabilities of the republic to the
amount of $640, they or their legal representatives should be
entitled to demand and should 'receive from the government a,
full and absolute title to; 640 acres of the reserved alternate
sectfons. The right to purchase the alternate sections was,
hoiVever, made to ..depend on certain conditions, which, in the
view taken of the case by the court, need not be here set out.
It was provided in the contract that whenever Mercer and
his associates, or their authorized agent or legal representative,
"shall exhibit to the commissioner of the general land office of
the republic a certificate, under oath, subscribed by two witnesses, and cerfified by some person qualified by the laws of
Texas to administer an oath, that the said parties of the second
part, or their legal representatives, have caused to be built a
small comfortable house or cabin; or any number of such houses
or cabins, on the parcel or parcels of land which they are
,bligated by this contract to convey to each family, or the
several families respectively, and have actually settled a family
or several families respectively therein, they shall immediately receive thereafter a full and absolute conveyance from
the government of the republic for as many sections of land of
640 acres, .or half sections, or other fractional parts of sections
equal in amount to 640 acres, as there sha.ll be families certified
to in such certificate or certificates."
It was further provided that the unlocated lands included in
the boundaries described in the contract should remain and be
held by the government of the republic for .the purposes set
forth in the contract, until the end of five years from its date,
and "shall be considered as set apart, exclusively of all futurne
VOL. Cix-21

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
. Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

camg, to be colonized in the manner aforesaid, by and for
the benefit of the party of the second part and of this republic."
It was also stipulated that unless Mercer and his associates,
Qr their legal representatives,. "sha ll , pridr to the first of May,
1845, have introduced and settled on the land above mentioned,
-ac ording to the tenor of this contract, one hundred families,
all right and title of the party of the second part, or their legal
representatives, to proceed further in the execution of this contract shall cease and determine from the moment of such def'ault; but such default shall not work or operate retrospectively,
but leave to the party of the second part, and all persons claiming under them, whatever right, title, or interest they may
have acquired from the action of the party of the second part
and their'legal representatives prior to such default, to the
,same extent as if no such default or failure had occurred; and
in like manner, and udder like qualifications, the right of the
said party to proceed further under this contract shall cease
and determine provided 250 families be not introduced and
settled by them, in manner aforesaid,. on or before the expiration of two years from the date hereof; and so in like manner
150 additibnal families shall be settled on the said lands, according to the terms of this contract, by the said parties of the
second part or their legal representatives, within each of the
three remaining years, or the right of -the said party to proceed
further under this contract, through the -full term of five years
from the date hereof. shall, on the occurrience of any default as
aforesaid, utterly cease and determine; provided, as before expressed, no such default shall operate otherwise than prospectively, either in relation to the sepond party to this contract, or
to the emigrant families actually settled, or any person or
persons claiming-by, through, or-under them, or any of them."
To what extent did Mercer and his asseciates comply with
their contract? The inference to be drawn from the opinion
of the court is, that the record furnishes no evidence whatever
that Mercer and his associates did anything of a substantial
character entitling them to the benefit of their contract with
the Republic of Texas. But we are of opinion that this is an

WALSH v. PRESTO.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.
erroneous view of the evidence. We cannot avoid the conclusion that the contrary is abundantly shown by the record.
That Mercer and his associates introduced and settled one
hundred and nineteen families prior to the first day of May,
1845, the evidence leaves on our minds no reasonable doubt.
There was produced from the records of the general land office
of Texas, certified by the comnmissioner of that office, a copy of
what is styled the original agreement or covenant, signed by
the heads of that number of families, showing the date of their
introduction into and settlement upon the Mercer colony lands,
the signature of each emigrant being duly witnessed.
That agreement is in these words:
1, This instrument witnesseth, that the persons who have subscribed and undersigned their names hereto do hereby severally,
but not jointly, agree and covenant as follows, to wit :
"That each of us has received of Charles Fenton Mercer and
his associates, known as and comprising the ' Texas Association,'
a certificate issued in accordance with a contract made on the
29th day of January, A.D. 1844, between them and Sam. Houston,
then president of the Republic of Texas, acting in behalf of the
said republic, authorizing them, among other things, to introduce
and settle emigrant families upon the lands within the limits
specified in said contract ; the number and date of each certificate
granted by said association, and by us received, being expressed
and written in spaces to the left hand of our respective names,
which certificates are received and held for the benefit of the
respective families mentioned therein, each one of us forming a
member of the family described in the certificate delivered to
him, wih ich families have been. specially introducedand settled at
the thaes awd i manner andformn as stated and expressed in said
certifiates respectively by the said .Mfercer and his associates, and
havu emnigrated as the said certflicates declare and show. And in
consideration of the premises and the benefits from said certificates and the contract aforesaid, accruing and to arise, that we
will severally observe and perform, as far as may be in our power,
the several duties and requirements devolving upon us as
settlers under said contract, whether prescribed by the terms
thereof, or by the laws of the lana in such behalf especially.

OOTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

We bind ourselves severally not to give, sell, or in any way
furnish to any Indian any spirituous liquor, nor any gunpowder,
lead, or fire-arms, or warlike weapons of any description ; and,
moreover, to abstain from any waste or trespass upon the half
sections adjoining those on which we have respectively settled,
and on.the whole sections adjoining thereto, and to guard the
same from waste or trespass by others, and to protect the same
from settlement by any other persons not authorized to settle
thereon by the said association, or some legally authorized agent
thereof ; and to pay the sum of five dollars in materials, labor or
money, towards the building of a school-house, of such dimensions and on such site as the said association or its agent may
direct. Also that each family specified or referred to herein,
each one cettifying alone for his .own family, has and occupies a
suitable cabin or house as described in said contract ; and that
each 'male member thereof of the age of seventeen years and upwards is supplied with'a good rifle, yager or musket, and a sufficient supply of prime ammunition."
This paper was suppprted by the signatures and the oath of
one of the Texas Association and two disinterested persons, to
the effect that the list contained "1a true and accurate account
and statement of emigrant families as certified to by the heads
thereof to have been specially introduced and settled by Charles
Fenton Mercer and his associates, known as and comprising
the Texas Association, prior to the 1st day of May, 1845, upon
and within the limits of the grant made by the Republic of
Texas to said Mercer and his associates on the 29th of January,
1844, and referred to in the certificate subscribed to by the
heads of the families respectively," &c. The record contains
no evidence that the Republic of Texas by any of its officers
ever made any objection to this certificate as defective either in
form or substance.. It brought the work of Mercer and his
associates, as to these 119 families, within the terms of that
portion of the contract already quoted. They did "exhibit to
-thecommissioner of the general land office of Texas a certificate under oath subscribed by two witnesses," under date of
August 2d, .1845,and certifleil on the same day by a "person
qualified by the laws of Texas to administer an oath," showing

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

that Mercer and his associates had caused to be built a comfortable house or cabin on the lands settled upon by said
families, and showing also that they had actually settled said
families on the lands for which they received the certificates
mentioned in the agreement between Mercer and such settlers.
The criticism which is made in the opinion of the court upon
the language of this agreement and certificate impresses us as
exceedingly technical. It is said that the parties signing it do
not state that they were em ig'ants from abroad introduced
into the State by Mercer or his associates; they, however, do
state and certify that they have each received a certificate in
accordance with the contract of January 29thi, 1844, describing it as one which authorized Mercer and his associates "to
introduce and settle emngrant families upon the lands within
the limits specified in said contract;" and they certify that
they were "specially introduced and settled," as set forth in
the certificates, and that they "have emigrated as the said
certificates declare and show." That the persons who signed
that agreement did not mean to certify that they emigrated
from a State or country without the Republic of Texas is a suggestion which it did not occur to the attorney-general of Texas,
in his very elaborate brief, to make. It is for the first time
found in the opinion of this court. That Pillans, one of the
persons who verified under oath the certificate relating to these
119 families, did not know "where the colonists came from,"
is a fact of no consequence; nor was it material to inquire from
what particular State or country, other than Texas, they came.
Pillans in his affidavit refers to them as "emigrant families,"
meaning thereby that they came from without the Republic of
Texas. We have been unable to find any evidence that the
persons embraced in these 119 families did not go to the
Mercer colony tract from some place outside of Texas, and
there is no suggestion to that effect in the argument of counsel.
It is said that none of these persons made oath to the papers
they signed. Our answer is, that neither the contract nor
,the law of Texas required any such oath, but only the oath of
two witnesses.
It seems to us that the complainant has made a clear case as

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan. Field, JJ.

to the 119 families introduced by Mercer and his associates
prior to fMay 1st, 1845.
The next inquiry is as to the effect to be given to the report
of John A. Crockett in 1851. That report was made under the
authority of an act of the legislature passed February 2d, 1850,
the first section of which provided that "every colonist, or the
heirs or administrators of such colonists, citizens of the colony
of Charles Fenton Mercer and his associates, on the 25th of
October, 1848, shall receive the quantity of land to which such
colonists may be entitled, to wit, 640 acres to each family, and
320 acres to each single man over the age of 17 years:
Provided,that nothing herein contained shall be construed so
as to place the contractors of said colony in a better condition
in regard to the State of Texas than they would be if this law
had not been passed." In this language we have a distinct recognition of the fact that there was, at the passage of that act,
a body of citizens in Texas known as "citizens of the colony of
Cfharles Fenton Xercer and k s associates," and that, as " suc
colonists," they were entitled to a certain quantity of land.
Persons within the limits of the Mercer grant, who did not settle there in pursuance of some arrangement with Mercer and
his associates, could not have been regarded as citizens of "the
colony of Charles Fenton Mercer and his associates." Nor
could such persons have been described as of that colony and
entitled, as "such colonists," to receive 640 acres, or any other
quantity, of land, unless they had entered upon the land under
the contract between the Republic of Texas and Mercer and
his associates. The proviso in the section quoted does not
at all militate against this view. That only shows the purpose
of the State not to give "the contractors of said colony" any
advantage they did not then have under their contract with the
republic.
The iiext section of the foregoing act provided for the appointment by the governor, by and with the advice and consent
of the senate, of a commissioner, "whose duty it shall be to
hearproof and determine what colonists shall be entitled to land
as aforesaid; and said commissioner shall issue to parties entitled
to the same, or to the heirs or legal representatives of such

WVALSH v. PRESTON.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

parties, certificates for tlteirpcoper quanzity of land." Plainly,
the purpose of the legislature was, through that officer, to
ascertain who were entitled to land in virtue of the contract
with Mercer and his associates. It was in violation of the contract for the State to thus pass o-ver the contractors and treat
directly with the colonists, but it is none the less clear that she
proceeded upon the basis of giving land only to those who were
"of the colony of Charles Fenton Mercer and his associates."
The official report of Crockett contains the names of all such persons. His action was judicial in its nature, and his determination as to who were entitled to land as colonists aforesaid, was a
determination that Mercer and his associates had complied with
their contract to the extent, at least, of the persons named in his
report. The State gave land to all persons reported by Crockett as of the Mercer colony, and, consequently, she was bound
by her contract to compensate Mercer. By the articles of her
annexation to the United States it was provided that she shall
"retain all the vacant and unappropriated land lying within.
her limits, to be applied to the payment of the debts and liabilXtie.R of the said Republic'of Texas, and the residue of said lands,
afteo dischay'g g said debts and libilities,to be disposed of as
such State may direct." Her liability under her contract with
Mercer was one of the liabilities for the discharge of which she
was bound to apply the unappropriated lands within her limits.
Had the articles of annexation been silent as to the debts and
liabilities, and made no provision as to the unappropriated lands
of the Republic of Texas, and had the United States taken such
lands, then, according to the settled principles of public law,
they would have been bound to meet the debts and liabilities
of the late republic, at least such as had been made a charge
upon its public property. To avoid all difficulty upon that
subject, it was expressly stipulated in the articles of annexation
that Texas should retain her public lands, with power to dispose
of them afteo discharging the debts and liabilities of the
republic, and that "in no event are said debts and liabilities to
become a charge upon the government of the United States."
Thus was created, by treaty between the United States and
the Republic of Texas, an express trust for the benefit of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

to whom the latter, at the time, was indebted or under liability.
The agreement between the United States and Texas constituted, within the meaning of the Constitution, a contract, the
violation of which, upon the part of the officers of that State, it
is competent for the courts to prevent.
In the opinion of Jhe court it is stated, among other things,
that, since the contract was made with Mercer, Texas, both as
an ndependent republic and as a State of the Union, has "de•nied its validity and refused to do anything under it." There
is a serious obstacle in the way of our acceding to the correctness of this statement. It is found in the decision of the
Supreme Court of Texas in .Aelton v. Cobb, 21 Texas, 539. Referring -to this colonization contract with Mercer, that court
said:
"That the contract of the 29th of January, 1844, if valid, reserved the land in question from location and appropriation by the
plaintiff's certificate, cannot be doubted. But it is insisted that the
contract was invalid, for the want of authority, on the part of the
president of the republic, to confer on the grantee the benefits
contemplated by the -joint resolution of the 16th of February,
1843. Ie undoubtedly had authority under the act of the 4th of
February, 1841, and the amendatory act of the 5th of February,
.1842, to contract with the grantee to colonize vacant lands of the
republic for that purpose, and to set apart and reserve from location the territory within certain boundaries, which lie should
designate,. for the period of three years from the date of the contra~t."
Referring to the act of February 3d, 1845, copied in the
opinion of this court, the Supreme Court of Texas said:
"This act cannot be regarded as anything less than a virtual
ratification by the government of the act of its agent in making
the contract, and its legislative affirmation of its validity
The contract was again expressly recognized and treated as an
existing contract by the act of 25th June, 1.845, and these acts

were passed prior to the plaintiff's location and survey. It is unnecessary to refer to more recent acts 6ontaining similar recognitions of the validity of the contract. It will suffice to say that

DUBUQUE &c. RAILROAD v. D. M. V. RAILROAD. 329
Statement of Facts.

these legislative recognitions of its validity must be deemed to

have put that question at rest.

.Houstonv. Robertson, 2 Texas,

6; .Hancockv. Nc-Winney, 7 id., 384, 441-2."

In view of the grounds upon which the court rests its decision, it is unnecessary for us to discuss the extent of relief to
which Preston is entitled.

For the reasons stated, we cannot assent to the opinion and
judgment in this case.
DUBUQUE AND SIOUX CITY RAILROAD CO. v. DES
MOINES VALLEY RAILROAD CO.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Argued October 29th, 18SS.-Decided November 19th, 1883.

Indian Titles-Iowa-Land Graits-ailroads.
Previous decisions of this court have settled: 1. That the grant of lands in

1846 to Iowa Territory for the improvement of the Des Moines River did
not extend above the Raccoon Fork. 2. That the odd numbered sections
within five miles of the river above Raccoon Fork and below the east branch,
to which Indian title had been extinguished, did not pass under the act of
1856, granting lands to Iowa to aid in the construction. of railroads. 3.
That the act of 1862 transferred the title from the United States and
vested it in Iows. for the use of its grantees under the river grant.
The court now decides: 4. That when the act of 1862 took effect, there was no
Indian title in the way of the grant, and the title ofthe defendants in error
in this suit was perfected. 5. That the reservation made by the executive
under the act of 1846 is to have effect according to its terms, and not
according to any mistaken interpretation which may at some time have
been given to it.

Action to recover lands and quiet title. It was commenced
in the Humboldt District Court in the State of Iowa. The pres-

ent plaintiffs by petition set forth that in May, 1856, Congress
granted to the State of Iowa, for the purpose of aiding in con-

structing a railroad from Dubuque to Sioux City, every alternate
section of land designated by odd numbers, for six sections in
width, on each side.of said road;, that this grant became vested
in the plaintiffs: and that the present defendants had wrong-

