132

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

legally also (and the ]olicy sh6uld be subjected to this test),
self-destruction by a fellow being bereft of reason can with no
-more-propriety be ascribed to his own hand than to the deadly
instrument that may have been. used for the purpose;" and,
-whether it was by drowning, or poisoning, or. hanging, or in
any other manner, "was n . more his act, in the sense of the
law, than if he had been impelled by irresistible physical
power." Bre.,sW v. Farmer' Ioan & Tet
Co., 4 Hill, 73, 75.

l EW EANv . ARTHU4, Collector.

IN ERROR

TO THE CIRUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR T

SOUTHERN DISTRIT OF NEW YORK
Argue4 October24th, 188.-Decded November 5th, 1888.

.ustom.s .uties-3.anufaoturew of Cotton-Stalutea.
1. The rule that where words- are used- in an act imposing duties upon
imports, which have acquired by commercial -use a meaning different
from their ordinary meaning, the latter may be controlled by the former,
Is not applicable when the language used in the statute is unequivocal.
2. The fact that at the date of the passage of an act imposing duties, goods
of a certain kind-had not been manufactured, does not withdraw them
from the class to which they belong, when the language of the statute
clearly and fairly includes them.

This action was brought to recover money alleged to have
been illegally exacted by the collector pf customs at the port
of New York, and paid under protest. There was a verdict
and judgment -in favor of the defendant below, to reverse
which this writ of error is prosecuted.
The importationi were -made in .1875, and consisted of cotton
goods, upon which the collector assessed a duty of five and a
half cents a square yard and twenty per centtUm ad valorem.
The plaintiff, at the time of the liquidation, claimed that the
goods were liable to a duty of only-thirty-five per cent. ad valorem as manufactures of cotton not otherwise provided for.
It was proven on the trial that goods like those in question

NEWMAN v. ARTHUR.
Statement of Facts.

were first manufactured in Manchester, England, in 1868 or
1869, they being then a new article of manufacture, and were
first introduced into this country in 1869 or 1870. They
have been known, since thejr first introduction-into this country
in trade and commerce, by the name of cotton Italians, and
used exclusively for coat linings. The importations in question were wholly of cotton, and dyed black in the piece, after
being woven, and were made in imitation of a. well-known
article called Italian clbth, made of Wool, and Used for lining
woollen coats. The surface of the cotton Italians was by some
process of weaving and calendering, made smooth and glossy
like that of the real Italians. Plain woollen goods were those in
which the warp and woof threads cross each other at right
angles.
Cotton Italians were not plain woven, but were twilled goods,
and had upon them figures of different designs made in weaving. The cotton Italians in question had more than one hundred threads and-less than two hundred threads to the square
inch, counting the warp and filling, and were less in weight
than five ounces to the square yard, and did not exceed in
value 25 cents to a square yard. Plaintiff's counsel gave evidence tending to show that the number of threads to he
square inch in plaintiff's importations could not be countea.
without unravelling the goods.
The plaintiff's counsel asked the plaintiff, who was duly
sworn as a witness in the cause, the following question: "Are
the goods bought and sold. by the count of the number of
threads?"
The defendant's counsel objected to the question as immaterial. The court sustained the obiection, and plaintiff's coun'k11
sel duly excepted.
The plaintiff's counsel then offered to prove by the witness
that goods like tthose in question were never known in trade
and commerce in this country as countable goods, or so bought
and sold.
The defendant's counsel .objected to Ithe evidence as immaterial. The court sustained the objection, and plaintiff's counsel duly excepted. Plaintiff's counsel then offered to show

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for the Plaintiff in Error.

that prior to 1861, and ever since, there had been in trade and
commerce in this country a great variety of cotton cloths
known as. countable. goods, and which were bought and sold
by the number of threads in the warp and .flling, which number of threads, was ascrtainable by a glass and without taking the Im6ric to pieces.
The defendant's counsel objected to the question as immaterial. The sourt sustained the objection, and plaintiff's counsel duly excepted. The plaintiff's counsel 'then asked the witness the following question: " W as the value of cottoii Italians
partially or wholly determined-b6tween the manufacturer and
the purchaser according to the number of threads to the square
hich V'
To this question defendant's counsel objected as immaterial.
The court sustained the objection, and plaintiff's counsel duly
excepted.
It was conceded that' plaintiff's goods were neither cotton
jeans, denims, drillingi, bed-ticlings,' ginghams, plaids, cottonades, nor pantaloon stuff, nor goods of like description to
them or either of them, nor for similar use.
Among others, not necessary here to refer to, the following
instructions were requested by the counsel for the plaintiff in
error, which the court refused to give, and to which exception
was duly taken, viz:
"3d. That if the number of threads to the square inch in
plaintiff's goods, counting the warp and filling, cannot be counted
without taking the goods to pieces, then the plaintiff is entitled
to recover.
"5th. That cotton Italians; being a new manufacture, and unknown here and abroad when the act of 1864 was passed, they
were not specifically enumerated, and the presumption, until rebutted, is, that they come under the general provision of manufactures not otherwise provided for."
.M .. dwin B. Smith for the plaintiff in error.
Congress could not have intended, at the date of the enactment, to impose the duty exacted from the plaintiff upon this
article speciftally,-because it then" had no existence; it could

NEW-MAN v. ARTHUR.
Opinion of the Court.

not have been intended to embrace it Within the general tern,8,
because it had not the distinctive trait by which the goodscovered by the act at its date are known, distinguished, bought,
sold and valued.
Congress did not mean to subject to this "countable" clause
every article of cotton manufacture of which, by cutting out a
square inch, the number of threads constituting the warp and
woof of that area could be counted; but only those articles in
which the threads were counted in ordinary mercantile trasactions therein, and which could be counted by methods practised by the trade. Thus in Barlow v. United'ites, 7 Peters,
404-9, a restricted meaning was given to the designation "refined sugars;" and so in multitudinous cases not necessary to
be individually specified.
.Yr. Nolicitor Generalfor the defendant.

Mn.

3usTicE

M.&TrH-Ews delivered the opinion of the court.

After reciting the facts as above stated, he continued:
The provisions of the law which govern the case are contained in section 2504 Revised Statutes, being schedule A, cotton and cotton goods, and are as follows:
"1. Sxc. 2504. On all manufactures of cotton (except jeans,
denims, drillings, bed-tickings, ginghams, plaids, cottonades,
pantaloon stuff, and goods of like description), not bleached, colored, stained, painted, or printed,.and not exceeding one hundred threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling,
and exceeding in weight five ounces per square yard, five cents
per square yard ; if bleached, five cents and a half per square
yard ; if colored, stained, painted, or printed, five cents and a
half per square yard, and, in addition theret, -tenper centum ad,
valorem.
"2. Or finer and lighter goods pf like description. Yj excee&
ing two hundred threads to the square inch, coifntmng the warp
and filling, unbleached, five cents per square yard ; if bleached,
five and a half cents per square yard ; if colored, stained, painted,
or printed, five and a half cents per square yard, and, in addition
thereto, twenty per centum ad valorem.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
"13. On goods of like description, exceeding two hundred
threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling, unbleached, five cents per square yard ; if bleached, five and a half
cents per square yard ; if colored, stained, painted, or printed,
five and a half cents per quare yard, and, in addition thereto,
twenty per centum ad valorem.
S1" 4. On cotton jeans, denims, drillings, bed-tickings, ginghams,
plaids, cottonades, pantaloon stuffs, and goods of like description, or for similar use, if unbleached, and -not exceeding one.
hundred threads to the square inch, counting the warp and filling,
. and exceeding five ounces to the square yard, six cents per
square yar4 ; if bleached, six cents and a half per square yard
if colored, stained, painted, or printed, six cents and a half per
square yard, and, in addition thereto, ten per centum ad
.-valorem.
"I5. On finer or lighter g6ods of like description, not exceeding two'hundred threads to the square inch, counting the warp
,.and filling, if unbleached, six cents per square yard ; if bleached,
six and a half cents per square yard; if colored, stained, painted,
"or printed, six and a half cents per square yard, and in addition
thereto, fifteen per centum ad valorem.
6. On goods of lighter description, exceeding two hundred
threads to th6 square inch, countipg the -warp and filling, if unbleached, seven cents per square yard; if bleached, seven and a
half cents per square yard; if colored, stained, painted, or
printed, seven and a half cents per square yard, and in addition
thereto, fifteen per centum ad valorem : Provided, That upon -all
plain woven cotton goods,. not included in the foregoing sched• ule, unbleached, valued at over sixteen cents per square yard;
bleache'd, valued at over twenty cents per square yard ; colored,
valued at over twenty-five cents per square yard, and cotton
jeans, denims, and drillings, unbleached, valued at over twenty
cents per square yard, and all other cotton goods of every
description, the value of which shall exceed twenty-five cents
Ter square yard, there shall be levied, 'collected, and paid a duty
of thirty-five per centum ad valorem : And providedfurter;That
no cotton goods having more than two hundred threads to the
square inch, counting ,the warp and filling, shall be adnitted to
a less rate of duty than is provided for goods which are of that
number of threads."
-

-

NEWNVAN v. ARTHUR.
Opinion of the Court.
. and all other manufactures of cotton, not othercc 12.
wise provided for, thirty-five per centum ad valorem."

The contention of the plaintiff in error now relied on is, in
substance, that the goods in question -are not embraced in the.
provisions of the statute applicable to "qnanufactures of cottn,"
described and classed by the number of threads to the square
inch, because that description had reference only to. goods so
descrilbed and classed by mercantile usage in dealings between
buyers and sellers, wherd the threads could be counted by the
aid of a glass, whereas, the goods in question, as it must be
assumed from the offers of proof which were rejected, were not
dealt in by manufacturers and merchants according to any such
usage, and could not be, because the threads in a square inch
could not be counted, except by unravelling the fabric for that
purpose; and it is therefore argued, that as the goods .in question were of a new manufacture, not known at the date of the
passage of the act, they cannot be considered as within the
specified enumeration of the statute, and the appropriate duty
must be determined by the final clause, embracing " all other
manufactures of cotton not otherwise provided for." The claim
is, in the language of counsel making it, that:
"Congress did not mean to subject to this Icountable ' clause
every article of cotton manufacture of which,.by cutting out a
square inch, the number of threads constititing the warp. and
woof of that area could be counted; but only those articles in
which the threads were counted in ordinary mercantile transactions therein, and which could be counted by methods practised
by the trade."
It is sought to support this argument by invoking the rule of
construing the statute applied in Arthur v. 3forion, 96 U. S.
108, and the numerous cases there cited, that where words are
used in an act imposing duties upon imports, which have acquired, by commercial use, a meaning different from their ordinary meaning, the latter may be controlled by the former if
such be the apparent intent of the statute; but the application
fails in the present instance because the language used is une-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

quivocal. There is no reference in the statute, either expressly
or. by implication, to any commercial usage, and there is no
language in it which requires for its interpretation the aid of
any extrinsic circumstances. The rejected proof of the custom
of merchants to rate certain descriptions of. goods, as to values,
by the number of threads to the square inch, as ascertained by
inspection by means of a glass, throws no light whatever on
the meaning of the law, because the law fixes the rate of duty
by a classification based on the number of the threads in a
square inch, without reference to th mode in which the count
is to be made. It might be quite, convenient for dealers not to
count the threads, except when they could do so without unravelling, but it is pure conjecture that Congress intended to
stop the count by collectors at the same limit. There appears
to be no diiculty in counting threads, no matter how fine the
fabric, as long as the goods are plain woven; and the necessity
of. unravelling for the purpose of counting seems'to exist only
in caseof twilled goods; and yet, this very act requires a count
of threads in the case of jeans, denims, drillings, bed-tickings,
etc., which are twilled, and bases a difference of duty upon them
according to the number of threads to the square inch so ascertained.
The fact that at the date of the passage of. the act goods of.
the kind in question had not been manufactured, cannot withdraw them from the class to which they belong,, as described in
the statute, where, as in the pre~ent case, the language fairly
and clearly includes them
There is no error in the record, and the judginent is accord.
Afflmed.
ingly

