OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

commonly called the Enforcement Act, passed April 20, 1871,
17 Stat. 15, Congress, after providing that in prosecutions
under that act, no person should be a grand or petit juror who
should, in the judgment of the court, be in complicity with any
combination or conspiracy punishable by the provisions thereof,
repealed the said fnt section of the act of 1862; and the law
remained in this state until the adoption of the Revised Statutes.
For some unexplained reason, the revisers imported the section
back again into the Revised Statutes (as section 820), although
it had not beez in force for over two years. It is probable that
the fact of .its repeal was overlooked by Congress when the
revision was adopted; and it is to be hoped that their attention
will be called to it.
In'conclusion, to the third and fourth questions certified by
the court below, the answer will be in the affirmative;
And it i8 8o ordered.

STEEVER

IOKMAN.
I.

Submitted October 2d, 188.-Decided October 28d, 1888.

Afj;peal-Cler'8fee8-Pactlce.

If, through fault of the party prosecuting a cause in this court, printed copies
of the record are not furnished to the justices or parties, the writ on appeal
will be dismissed for want of prosecution, unless good cause be shown to the
contrary. The fees of the clerk of this court must be paid in advance when
demanded.

Motion to use printed record without paying clerk's fee.
Mu. C=IF Jusno

,

WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.

By the act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses
of the. government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1881, c.
143, 292 Stat. 631, the clerk of this court is required to pay
into the treasury the fees and emoluments of his office over
and above his own compensation as fixed by law, and his
necessary clerk hire and incidental expenses. It is proper,
therefore, that for his protection his fees should be paid in
advance, if demanded.

OLIVER v. RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS.
Syllabus.

Under Rule 10, it is the duty of the clerk to have the record
printed, and a fee has been fixed for preparing the record for
the printer, indexing the same, and supervising the printing.
Ordinarily this fee is to be paid in the first instance by the
party who prosecutes the cause. If he fails to make the payment when demanded in time to enable the clerk to cause the
printing to be done in due course, he fails in the orderly prose1,
cution of his suit, and may be dealt with accordingly. Consequently if, through the fault of a plaintiff in error or appellant, printed copies of the record are not furnished to the justices or the parties when required in the due prosecution of the
cause, the writ on appeal will be dismissed for want of prosecution, unless sufficient cause be shown to the contrary.
In the present case the record has been printed, but the clerk
has not furnished the necessary copies to the justices because
his fee for preparing the record for the printer and other services, has not been paid by the appellant, although demanded.
As this is the first time the questioA has arisen, and the practice has not heretofore been authoritatively announced, it is
ordered that, unless the appellant pay to the clerk within
twenty days from the entry hereof what is due him for this
fee, the appeal be disimissed for want of prosecution. If the
payment is made, the clerk shall at once notify the opposite
party, and the cause may thereafter be brought on for hearing
under paragraph T of Rule 26, as a case that has been passed
under circumstances which do not place it at the foot of the
docket.

OLIVER & Others v. RUMFAORD CHEMICAL WORKS.
IN

ERROR TO THE cIRCtrr COURT OF-THE UNITED SMTES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENINESEE.
Argued October 10th and 11th, 1883.-Decided October 29th, 1888.

Ltccse---Paen--Survtiorsiip.
The reissued letters patent No. 2,979, granted to the Rumford Chemical
Works, June 9th, 1868, for an "improvement in pulverulent acid for use

