ObTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

THOMAS, Trustee, v. BROWNVILLE, FORT KEARNEY,
ANT) PACIFIC ,RAIMROAD COMPANY and Others.
APPEAL

IROM THE OIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN-ITED
THE DISTRICT OF NEBASKA.

STATES FOR

Argued October 19tb, 1883.-Decided December 10th, 1888.
Contract-Equity-Fraud-.Mrtgage-Railroad.
A railway company contracted with paities associated together as a constructiqn.
company for the construction of a portion of its road, the payment to be made
in mortgage bonds. Two of the directors were also parties in the construction
contract. As part of the transaction the other parties in the construction
contract agreed to assume subscriptions by all individual directors of the railroad company to the capital stock of that company (which was worthless),
and relieve them from all liability under it : Held, that the contract
could not be enforced in equity when resisted by stockholders in the corporatirn ; and that mortgage bonds issued under it to the construction company were voidable at election of the parties affected by the fraud, while in
the hands of parties who took from the construction company not in the
ordinary course of business, but under circumstances which threw doubt
upon their being holders for value or without notice: also, Held, that,
notwithstanding the inyalidity of the contract, the holders of the bonds in
a suit for the foreclosure of the mortgage were entitled to a decree for the
payment of the sums actually'expended for construction under the contract, and remaining unpaid, which were payable and paid in bonds dedared void.

Bill in equity to foreclose a railroad mortgage. Decree of
sale and sale made. Then stockholders petition to intervene
on the ground of fraud, and by permission intervened, praying
to set aside the sale, and to have the mortgage decreed invalid.
The decree below set aside the sale and decreed the bonds to
be invalid. Appeal
.X1r. TFm. H. 1amsey, for appellant, submitted the case on
brief.
XP. J. H. Broady for appellee.
M-u. Jusnc M=Fa delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court for the
District of Nebraska dismissing appellant's bill for a foreclosure
of a railroad mortgage.

THOMAS v. BROWNVILLE &c. R.R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The mortgage was made by the lBrownville, Fort Kearney
and Pacific Railroad Company to secure the payment of bonds
issued by said company to certain persons who had coniracted
to build its road, and to whom 610 of said bonds of $1,000 each
had been delivered. There was a default in the payment of
these bonds. After they were executed and delivered, the
Brownville and Fort Kearney R. R. Co. became consolidated
under the laws of Nebraska with the Midland Pacific R. R.
Co., under the new name of the Nebraska Railway Company.
In the bill of foreclosure both these companies, that is, the
Brownville Company and the Nebraska Company, axe made defendants, and an answer confessing plaintiff's right to relief being
filed, the court rendered a decree of foreclosure, and Apparently
a sale was had.
But at this stage of the proceeding certain parties interested
as stockholders of the original Brownville and Fort Kearney
Company were permitted to make themselves defendants, and
the first decree was vacated.
These parties set up by way of answer and cross bill that the
contract for the construction of the road, on account of which
the bonds were issued, was fraudulent and void, and so were
the bonds issued under it, and they resisted the foreclosure of
the mortgage on that account.
The fraud charged in this answer and. cross bill is founded on
two allegations:
1. It is alleged that two of the board of directors who took
part in making the construction contract were interested with
the other parties in the contract.
2. That the other contractors besides these two made an
agreement at the same time that the construction contract was
made, with twelve of the shareholders of the railroad company,
that they would relieve them, as subicribers to the stock of
said company, from the payment of any further assessments
upon the stock which they had subscribed for, by paying out
said stock and having same assigned to them; in all not to
exceed $16,500 of the $11,000 of individual subscriptions to
said company.
The names of the persons thus relieved by the construction

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of.the Court.

company included all the directors of the railroad company at
the time the contract for construction was made. As the stock
was worthless, and these parties were liable to be called on to
pay up this $16,500, the effect upon the directors in making a
construction contract with the men who relieved them of their
liability, two of them being also parties in the construction contract, is readily seen.
These allegations are proved beyond question, and the circuit court held the contract void, and the bonds issued in fulfilment of it also void, and dismissed the bill.
. We concur with the circuit judge that no such contract as
this can be enforced in 'a court of equity where it is resisted
and its Jimmorality is brought to light.
But as this court said in the case of the TwinZick Co. v.
Marbur, 91 U. 6S R. 587, such contracts are not absolutely
void, but are voidable at the election of the parties affected by
the fraud. It may often occur that, notwithstanding the vice
of the transaction, namely, the directors or trustees, or a majority of them, being interested in opposition to the interest of
those whom they represent, and in reality partieg to both sides
of the contract, that it may be one which those whose confidence is abused may prefer to ratify or submit to. It is, theref6re, at the option of these latter to avoid it, and, until some
act of theirs indicates such a purpose, it is not ;L nullity.
In the present case the stockholders of the corporation,
whose officers accepted those benefits at the hands of the
parties with whom they were, in the name of the corporation,
making a contract for over a million of dollars, do denounce
and repudiate that contract. The conduct of these directors is
utterly indefensible. The case of W~ardell v.Tie Union PacvfiA Railroad Company, 103 U. S. 651, is in precise analogy to
this. See, also, same case in 4 Dillon, 330.
The original contract being such that the contractors can
maintain no suit on it, the bonds which they received are affected with the same vice, and cannot be enforced unless they
are negotiable instruments in the hands of innocent holders for
value.
This principle is set up and relied on to reverse the decree,

THOMAS v. BROWTVMLLE &c. R.R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

on the ground that the bonds are in the hands of the Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company. This company is
no party to the suit, but it appears in evidence that, while it
has possession of these bonds, it did not receive them by any
purchase in the ordinary course of business. They came into
its possession as part of a transaction in which it purchased
the consolidated Nebraska company's railroad, and these
bonds were probably taken as security against their being used
to injure the title. It is also shown that, as further security
in the same direction, the Burlington and Missouri Railroad
Company yet retains $400,000 of the price of the road, which
it agreed to pay. Under these eircumst4nces we do not see
that that company is in condition to avail itself of the doctrine
of bonajfde holders for value.
But we are asked to reverse the decree so far as to permit
the trustee in this case to recover such a sum as the construction company actually earned in building the road. The matter was referred to a master, who, on this hypothesis, reported
that the contractors had done work for the railroad company,
which it had accepted, to the value of $205,947.66 beyond what
they had received payment for, except as it was paid by these
bonds. He also reported that this work was of that much advantage to the company, and its value or cost is estimated as
on a quantum Yneruit, without regard to the prices fixed by the
contract.
We are of opinion that appellant's view of this part of the
transaction is sound.
The bonds and mortgage in the hands of the trustee were
issued in payment for this work. To the extent of $205,947.66
the consideration is good, and no sound principle" is seen on
which they cannot to that extent be enforced. To this extent
they do not rest on the original contract, but on work, labor,
and material actually furnished to the company and received
by it. These services and materials are not estimated by the
price- named in the contract, but by their real value to the
company.
In the analogous case of WardeUl v. Mhe Union PacieA.1il
road Conpany, 4 Dillon, 339, the circuit court, after rejecting

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

'ie fraudulent contract on the sa-&e grounds that we reject this
one, said:
"By what rule shall we measure Mr. Wardell's rights? He has
spent time and labor and money in discovering the mines and in
placing them in condition to be profitably worked. . . . Apart
from the contiact, and if it had never existed, he is entitled to a
fair and reasonable compensation for his labor and time and skill.
The fraud gives the railroad company no right to these without
just compensation."
This ruling was affirmed m this court on appeal in the same
case. 103 U. S. 651; see also Gardner v. Butler, 3 Stewart

(N. J.) Eq. '102.
There is another principle of equity jurisprudence which

leads to the same conclusion.
The stockholders who have resisted complainant's claim were
not parties to the original suit for foreclosure, nor were they
either necessary or proper parties as the case then stood.' The
decree and sale were made in-a suit Where all the usual parties
to such suit were agreed.
These stobktolders had no legal right to interfere. It was
only by permission of the court that they were allowed to coine
in and contest the validity .bf the mortgage. In doing this
they became. actors. - They fileA their. cross bill.
In this condition of the case they are amenable to the =le
that they who seek equiy must do equity. It is just that they
should pay a fair price for what they have received; that this
mortgage, given:for the, c6nstruction of the road, though excessive by reaso.of the'ffaud i- the contract, should stand for
the reasonable -value of What the conipany actually received in
the way of coniruction. To -ermit these intervenors to defeat
"he mortgage on any-other terms would be unjust, and would
make the'court the instruinent of this injustice.
T1Ie decree bf the circuit court must, erefore, be reve sed and
the ca e remaihned to that court, with directionsfor a decree
in favor of the plaintfffor the sui of $205,94T-7.66, with
interet. If a sale becomes necesswry, thi sum must be paid

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBHARD.

527

Syllabus.

out pro rata on the bonds secured by the viortgage, on their
being produced and cancelled, or surrenderedfor canwella-

t6on, provided the road 8ell8 for so much.
MR. JusnoR FiELt and M.R. JusTICE :M-T_ amws took no part
in the hearing or decision of this case.

CANADA SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPALNYv. GEBHARD and Another, Executors.

SAME v. GEBHARD.
SAlE v. SAME.
SAME v. GEBLARD and Another, Executors.
ALL: IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UlITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 24th, 1883.-Decided December 10th, 18M3.

Bankmruptcy-Conflict of Laws-Contitutinal Law-Contracts-Corporations-Dominion of Canada-Statutes(Foreign).
1. The Parliament of Canada has authority to grant to an embarrassed railway corporation within the Dominion power to make an arrangement
with its mortgage creditors for the substitution of a new security-in the
place of the one they hold, and to provide that the arrangement shall
be binding on all the holders of obligations secured by the same mortgage
when it shall have received the assent of the majority, provision being
made for the protection of the minority in the enjoyment of rights and
privileges in the new security identical with those of the majority.
2. When the Parliament of the Dominion of Canada authorizes a corporation,
existing under its authority, to enforce upon its mortgage creditors a
settlement by which they are to receive other securities of the corporation
in place of their mortgage bonds, and the scheme is assented to by a large
majority of bondholders, and goes into effect, and the right of citizensof
the United States who are bondholders to participate in the reorganization on the same terms as Canadians or other British subjects is preserved and recognized, the settlement is binding upon bondholders who
are citizens of the United States, and who sue in courts of the United
States to recover on their bonds.

