BD. OF LIQUIDATION v. L. & N. R. R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

is sufficient to raise the issue of the liability of those goods to
the exigency of the writ.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of .71ichgan is Teversed,
with directions for further poceedings in conformity to
this opinion.

BOARD OF LIQUIDATION OF THE CITY DEBT OF
NEW ORLEANS v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY -and Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 18th and 19th, 1883.-Decided November 12th, 1883.

New Orleans-Statute8of Louisiana.

In the absence of fraud, a compromise made betiveen the city authorities of
New Orleans and a railroad company, respecting a disputed grant of a user
of part of the city property, known as the Batture, for railroad purposes, was
sustained, as authorized by the laws of Louisiana. Under the statutes
of that State, the city authorities had the right to make the compromise
at the time it was made, and it remained valid, notwithstanding the powers
conferred upon the board of liquidation of the city debt of New Orleans,
by the legislature.

The long record in this case presents no subject of general
interest outside of the important special issues involved in the
suit. The facts upon which the decision rests are fully set
forth in the opinion of the court.
.M. 1Richard T. .3frricke and 3r.fHenry C. X3ille for the
appellant; and
.Yr. Towmas 1. Bayne, for the appellees.
MR. CH F JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This appeal presents the following case:
Prior to the year 1820 disputes had arisen between the city
of New Orleans and certain proprietors of riparian estates, as
to the ownership of the batture or alluvion in front of the city

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

on the Mississippi River. In compromnise of these disputes
the proprietors surrendered to the city all their claims to
property within certain boundaries.
In 1869 thd legislature of Louisiana undertook, by act No.
26 of 1869, to grant to the New Orleans, Mobile & Chattanooga Railroad Company, now by change of name the New
Orleans, Mobile. & Texas Railroad Company, "the right to
locate, construct, maintain, and use a passenger depot with
offices and apartments suitable for its legitimate business, upon
that part or portion of the levee or streets and grounds in the
city of New Orleans bounded by Canal, Delta, and Poydras
streets and a line parallel to and one hundred and fifty feet
easterly from Delta street; and for the constriction of a freight
depot, and for other purposes of its legitimate business, to
inclose and occupy the blocks of grounds, parts of streets, and
portion of levee in said city bounded by Girod; Water, and
Calliope streets and a line parallel'to and two hundred and
ninety fet easterly from Water street, provided said company
shall not inclose or occupy that part or portion of the blocks
of ground within said last limits which is the private property
of individuals until said company has acquired the title thereto;
and said company shall thereafter, if requested by said city, extend the wharf in front thereof equal with the present wharf in
front of the northerly corner of the outer block within said limits, recently sold by said city and now owned by said company."
The validity of this act was disputed by the city, and suits
were brought by the company in a State court to establish the
grant. These suits resulted in judgments, which, as the company claimed, confirmed its title. The city denied that such
was the effect of the judgments, and attempted to tear down
and destroy the fences and other structures of the company.
Thereupon the company, on the 8th of July, 1874, brought
another suit to enjoin the city. This suit resulted in a decree
by the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Louisiana, on the 11th of June, 1878, allowing the injunction
prayed for. From that decree the city, on the 30th of July,
1878, appealed to this court, and the appeal was docketed on
the 16th of December following.

BD. OF LIQUIDATION v. L. & N. R. R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

During the pendency of this suit in this court the legislature
of Louisiana passed act No. 133 of 1880, creating a board
of liquidation of the city debt "for the purpose of liquidating,
reducing, and consolidating the debt Of the city of New
Orleans." By this act it was provided that the board thus
created should "have exclusive control and direction of all
matters relating to -the bonded debt of the city of New
Orleans," and authority to issue new bonds of the city, to be
exchanged for old at the rate of fifty cents of new for one
dollar old.
Section 5 of that act is as follows:
"SECT. 5. That it shall be the duty of the city authorities, as
soon as possible, after the organization of the board of liquidation of the city debt, to turn over and transfer to the said board
all the property of the city of New Orleans, both real and
personal, not dedicated to public use ; and the board of liquidation shall be, and is hereby, empowered and authorized to dispose
of said property on such terms and condifions as may be deemed
favorable ; the proceeds of such sale or sales to be deposited with
the fiscal agents of the board at credit of ' city debt fund.'"

No new bonds were ever issued by the board of liquidation
under this authority, and the city never actually transferred
to the board any of the batture property. Neither did the
board ever assume control of such property. A reason given
for this by the president of the board, and suggested by the
counsel for the appellant in his argument, is, that fears were
entertained that if property not dedicated to public uses should
be actually separated and set apart from that which was, judgment creditors of the city might levy their executions and subject such as was thus shown not to be required for public use to
the payment of their judgments.
On the 23d of June, 1882, act No. 20, of 1882, was passed
by the legislature of Louisiana, "to incorporate the city of New
Orleans, provide for the government and administration of the
affairs thereof, and to repeal all acts inconsistent and in conflict with its provisions."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opin

of the Court.

Sees. 8, 28, and I8 of this act are as follows:
"SEC.

8. The council shall also have power

.

.

to au-

thorize the use of streets for horse and steam railroads and to
regulate the same; to require and compel all lines of railway or
tramway in any one street to run on and use one and the same
track and turn-table; to. compel them to keep conductors on
their cars, and compel all such companies to keep in repair the
street bridges and crossings through or over which their cars
run ; to lay off-and sell.in lots or squares so much of the batture,
from time to time, as may not be required for public purposes,
but the right of accretion or to future batture shall never be
sold."S:Ec. 28. That all the rights, titles, and interest of the city of
New Orleans, as now existing in and to all lands, tenements,
hereditaments, bridges, ferries, streets, roads, wharves, markets,
stalls, levees, and landing places, buildings and other property of
whatever description, and wherever situated, and with all goods,
chattels, moneys, effects, debts, dues, demands, bonds, obligations, judgments and judgment liens, actions and rights of
actions, books, accounts, and vouchers, be and they are hereby
vested in the city of New Orleans, as incorporated by this act.
"Su.c. 78. All laws in conflict, inconsistent, or contrary to the
provisions of this act, be and the, same are hereby repealed."

. By Act No. 58 of 1882,,passed June 30th, 1882, entitled "An
Act to authorize the city of New Orleans to renew and extend
payment of her outstanding bonds, other than premium bonds,
t6 provide the rate of interest on the bonds as reduced or extended, and authorize the levy of a tax to pay the same," the
board of liquidation was "authorized and empowered to extend the bonded indebtedness of said city, other than premium
bonds, outstanding at the passage and promulgation of this
act, for the period of forty years from January 1st, 1883, at a
rate of interest not exceeding six per cent."
On the 5th of July, 1882, Act No. 81 of 1882 was passed and
approved, a copy of which is as follows:

"Act No. 81 of 1882, entitled an act to authorize the city of
New Orleans in the sale or lease of franchise, or right of way for

BD. OF LIQUIDATION v. L. & N. R. R. Cd.
Opinion of the Court.
street railroads, or other privilege, to apply the price paia for
the same in the performance of works of public improvements of
a permanent character, such as paving streets, embellishing
parks, etc.
"Whereas, notice as required by article 48 of the Constitution
has been given of the intention to apply for the passage of this
act ; therefore,
SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Louisiana, That hereafter, whenever the city of New Orleans,
through the proper authorities, shall contract with private corporations or individuals for the sale or lease of public privileges
or franchises, such as the rights of way for street railroads, or
for other public undertakings within her legal power and control,
the price paid for the sale or lease of public privileges or franchises shall be applied by said city in the performance of works
of public improvement of a permanent character, such as paving
streets, embellishing parks, etc.
"SEc. 2. Be it further enacted, That all laws or parts o'f laws,
and especially so much of section 10 of act No. 31, acts of 1876,
known as the premium-bond act, and by section 5 of act No. 133,
acts of 1880, as may be in conflict herewith, be, and the same are
hereby, repealed."

Such being the legislative authority of the different depaitments of the city government, a resolution was passed by the
city council on the 11th of October, 1882, accepting a proposition of the railroad company to compromise and settle all the
matters in controversy in the suit pending in this court on appeal, by which the company was to pay the city $40,000, and
the city was to dismiss its appeal and acquiesce in the decree
of the circuit court. The negotiations which resulted in this
compromise began as early as August 1st, 1882, when the
council appointed a committee to confer with the railroad company on the subject. The money stipulated for in the compromise was paid on the 11th of October, 1882, and on the
same day an agreement of compromise, dismissing the appeal
and acquiescing in the decree appealed from, was duly signed
and executed by the mayor of the city under the authority of
On the next day the board of liquidation noti.
the council.
VOL. cM-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

flied the city authorities that it claimed the fund realized from
this settlement. On the 13th of October a resolution of
the board was adopted to the effect "that the $40,000 now in
the hands of the administrator of finance be enjoined and the
attorney be directed to institute legal proceedings at once."
On the 17th of October the resolution of the 13th was so far
modified as "to authorize the attorney of the board to take
such steps as, in his judgment, are requisite to set aside the
agreement of c6mpromise;

.

.

.

to oppose the dismissal of

the appeal, and to hold the fund decreed from said compromise so as to restore it if the compromise is annulled, or to
claim it for the board if said compromise becomes a finality."
On the 10th of October, 1882, the suit pending in this court
was continued at the request of the parties, but at a later day
in the term the railroad company appeared and presenting a
stipulation for the dismissal of the appeal, signed by the city
attorney of New Orleans pursuant, to the terms of the compromise, asked to have the appropriate order entered upon that
stipulation. Thereupon the board of liquidation came and
resisted the entry of any such order, on the ground that during
the pendency of the appeal authority over the subject-matter
of the controversy had been transferred from the city council
to the board, and that the compromise which hiad been effected
was not binding. The board also asked leave to prosecute the
appeal in the name of the city. It was conceded that the city
council made the compromise .which was claimed, and that the
railroad company was entitled to a dismissal of the appeal if
the council had authority to do what was done, and the compromise was fair. This court thought the dispute as to the
authority of th6 council presented questions too important to
be settled summarily on motions, and ordered the motions to
be continued until the present term, when the appeal would be
dismissed in accordance with the stipulation, unless .the board
should begin and prosecute without unnecessary delay, in some
court of competent jurisdiction, an appropriate suit to set aside
the compromise. This suit was brought for that purpose, and
the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, on full
consideration, -ntered a decree dismissing the bill. To reverse

BD. OF LIQUIDATION v. L. & N. R. R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

that decree this appeal was taken, and the single question to
be decided is, whether, upon these facts, the board of liquidation is entitled to the relief it has prayed for,
There is no pretence of fraud, either, on the part of the city
council or the railroad company. So far as appears, the negotiations were carried on by both parties openly and without
any attempt at concealment. The board of liquidation does
not even allege that it was ignorant of what w s being done.
The whole case, therefore, turns on the legislative authority
of the city council to bind the city by a compromise of the suit,
and about this we have no doubt. Under act No. 133 of 1882,
the city authorities were only required to turn over to the
board such property as was not dedicated to public use. It
was sibstantiaJly conceded on the argument that if the railroad was removed the propertr between Poydras and Canal
streets would immediately be put to such use, and it is by no
means certain, that this may not be true of some or all the
rest. All except that between Poydras and Canal streets has
been formed into squares, but the control of it was never
assumed by the board. , The fact that fears were entertained
that if such control should be assumed the property would be
levied on and sold under executions against the city, is very
persuasive evidence to show that it was apparently property
dedicated to public use, though occupied to some extent by the
railroad company for its tracks and passenger and freight
stations.
But however this may be, we are entirely satisfied that under
the legislation of 1882 the city council had full authority to
bind the city by a compromise of the pending suit. Confessedly no bonds were ever issued, or obligations incurred, by
the board of liquidation under act No. 133 of 1880; and on
the 23d of June, 1882, the city council was, in express terms,
authorized to lay off and sell, in lots or squares, so much of
the batture, from time to time, as might not be required for
public purposes. Then, on the 5th of July, only a few days
later, the city was authorized, through its proper authorities, to
contract with private corporations for the sale or lease qf public privileges or franchises, such as rights of way for street

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

railroads, or for other public undertakings within her legal
power and control, the price paid to be applied by the city "in
the performance of works of public improvement of a permanent character." All this is entirely inconsistent with the provisions of see. 5 of act No. 133 of 1880, at least so far as the
control and disposition of batture property are concerned. The
repealing sections of these acts, therefore, operated directly on
the powers of the board over the subject-matter of this compromise, and left the city council free to act in the premises.
It must be borne in mind that all the legislation involved
relates to the distribution of the powers of the city government
among the different departments. As the question is presented
to us no contract rights need protection. Whether the board
of liquidation is a corporation that can sue in its own name
or that can be sued is not at all important, for even if
it be a corporation, it is in effect nothing more than one of
the departments of the city government charged with the
duty of controlling and directing matters relating to the
bonded debt. Even though the effect of section 5 of the act of
1880 was to pledge the property of the city not dedicated to
public use to secure the payment of the public debt, there was
nothing to prevent the legislature from revoking the pledge
until contract rights had in some way intervened. It is agreed
that no new bonds were ever issued by the board under the
authority or upon the faith of the act of 1880 before the new
charter was granted, and act No. 81 of 1882 was passed before
anything was done in the way of extending or renewing bonds
under act No. 58 of the same year.,
The result of the whole legislation is,
therefore, that in 1880
the board of liquidation was created and given power
to dispose of and sell the property of the city not dedicated to public uses, and out of the proceeds pay the publie debt; but before any new rights had accrued under this
power, the control and disposition of batture property -not
needed for public purposes was withdrawn from the board and
given-to the city council, and the proceeds of the sales and
leases of public privileges and franchises were appropriated to
the payment of the expenses of public improvements which

KNOX CO. COURT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

were permanent in their character. Whether the iloney realized from this compromise is to be applied to the payment of,
the public debt or to make permanent improvements, we do
not undertake to decide, but that the compromise itself was
within the departmental authority of the city council, and not
subject to the control of the board of liquidation, is to our
minds clear.
It follows that the circuit court was right in-refusing to set
aside the compromise.

KNOX COUNTY COURT v. UNITED STATES ex rel.
GEO. W. HARSUM=N.
SAME v. UNITED STATES ex rel. DAVIS.
SAME v. UNITED STATES ex rel. WELLS and Others.
MASON COUNTY COURT v. HUIDEKOPER, Relator.,
BAKER, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES ex rel. DAVIS.
ALL, IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued October 26th, 1883.-Decided November 12th, 1883.

funipal .Bond&--Taxaton.
Bonds of the kind involved in these suits are debts of the county. Holders
are entitled to payment out of the general funds of the county raised by
taxation for ordinary use, after exhausting the special fund. The majority
of the court adhere to the rulings in United States v. Clark County, 9
U. S. 211 ; United States v. M3facon County, 99 U. S. 582, 589 ; and Miracon
County v. Huidekoper, 99 U S. 592.
CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In United States v. Coun'ty of Clark, 96 T. S. 211, it was
decided, at the October term, 1877, that bonds of the character
of those involved in the present suits were debts of the county,

MR.

and that for any balance remaining due on account of princi-

