146

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

are susceptible of but one meaning. Placing side by side the
two clauses of the statute which relate to this controversy, their
plain effect is toappropriate $2,600 for the salary of the appellee for one year, and to declare that the sum so appropriated
shall be in full compensation for his services as chief justice for
the year specified. There is no ambiguity and no room for construction.
We .cannot adopt the view of appellee unless we eliminate
from the statute the words "in full compensation," which Congress, abandoning the long-used form of the appropriation acts
has, ex industria, inserted. Our duty is to give them effect.
When Congress has said that the sum appropriated shall be
in full compensation of the services of the appellee, we cannot
say that it shall not be in full compensation, and allow him a
greater sum.
Not only do the words of the statute make the intention of
Congress manifest, but that intention is plainly repugnant to
the former statute, which fixes the yearly salary of the chief
justice at $3,000. It is impossible that both acts should stand.
No ingenuity can reconcile them. The later act must therefore prevail, and the earlier act must for the time covered by
the appropriation acts above referred to be considered as suspended. The result of these views is that the judgment of the
court of claims, which gives the appellant a salary at the rate
of $3,000 per annum from June 30th, 1871, to November 26th,
1879, must be reversed, and
The caee remanded to the court of cZaim with directonw to
di8mies thepetition.

UNITED STATES v. :MTCHET.
APPEAL FROM THE

CO=T

OF CLAIMS.

Submitted farch 80th, 1883.-Decided November 5th, 1888.

Interpreter-Salai-y-tatule.
The Revised Statutes fix the annual salary of an interpreter at four hundred
dollms. In 1877 Congress appropriated in gross for such offices "at three

UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL.
Statement of Facts.
hundred dollars per annum," and repeated the appropriation inlike form down
to and including the appropriation act of March 3d, 1881. A served as such
interpreter from July, 1878, to November, 1882, and was paia at the rate of
$300 per annum. In a suit to recover at the rate fixed by the Revised Statutes : Held, that Congress had expressed its purpose to reduce for the time
being the salaries of interpreters, and that the claimant could not recover.

This was a suit by the appellee, Charles :Mfitchell, to recover
a balance which he claimed to be due him as Indian interpreter
at the Santee agency in the State of Nebraska, under section
2070, title XXIII., of the Revised Statutes.
That section, and section 2076, which constitutes part of the
same title, and also relates to the compensation of interpreters,
are as follows:
SEC. 2070. "The salaries of interpreters lawfully employed in
the service of the United States in Oregon, Utah, and New
Mexico, shall be five hundred dollars a year each, and of all so

employed elsewhere, four hundred dollars a year each."
SEC. 2076. "The several compensations prescribed by this
title shall be in full of all emoluments and allowances whatsoever."

It appeared from the findings of the court of claims that the
appellee was an interpreter at the Santee Indian agency in the
State of Nebraska, duly appointed under section 2068 of the
Revised Statutes, and 'that he held the office and discharged its
duties for several periods between July 1st, 1878, and November
22d, 1882, his whole term of service amounting to three years
and seven months.
During all this time, instead of the salary of $400 per annum,
as'provided in section 2070, he was paid only at the rate bf
$300. per annum, for which he gave a receipt in full for his services, Congress having appropriated that sum only for his
yearly compensation during his term of service.
The appellee, contending that he was entitled to a salary at
the rate of $400 per annum, brought this suit to recover the
difference between his salary at that rate and the sum which
he was actually paid. The court of claims rendered judgment
in his favor for $353.33; from which the United States appealed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of .the Court.

-Mr. Aa8sistan-Attorney-Gene'rPa S'imo'
Blair for the 'United States.
-Yr. George A. JKing for the appellee.

and -M. Jhn S.

JUSTIOm WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended on behalf of the-United States that, by the
appropriation acts which cover the period for which the ap•pellee qlaims compensation, Congress- expressed its purpose to
suspend the operation of section 2070 of the Revised Statutes,
and to reduce for that period the salaries of the appellee and
other interpreters of the same class from $400 to $300 per
annum. We think this contention is well founded.
The law fi.ng the salaries of interpreters, as found in section
2070 of the Revised Statutes, was first passed in the Indian appropriation act of February 2T, 1851, 9 Stat. 581. That act
appropriated a gross sum for the pay of interpreters authorized
by the act of June 30, 1834, 9 Stat. '735, and declared that
the, salaries of interpreters employed in certain named Territories should be $500, and in all others $400 per annum.
From the passage of that act down to the passage of the
Indian appropriation act of March 3, 1877, 19 Stai. 271, the
appropriations for the salaries of interpreters were made at
those rates. The act last mentioned specifically appropriated
for the. pay of Indian interpreters the uniform sum of $300
each. This course of legislation was continued for five consecutive years, until the passage of the Indian appropriation
act of May 11, 1882, 22 Stat. 68, which appropriated the gross
sum of $20,000 for the payment of necessary interpreters, to
be distributed in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior,
and repealed section 2070 of the 'Revised Statutes. A like
appropriation was made in the same terms by the Indian appropriation act of March 1, 1883. 22 Stat. 433.
An eamination of this legislation, especially of the Indian
.appropriation acts, beginning ivith that of March 3, 1811, down
-to and including the act of March 3, 1881, which are al similar in their provisions, will clearly reveal the purpose of Congress. The act of March 3, 181t, opens with this provision:

MR.

"That- the following sums be, and they are hereby appropri,

UNITED STATES v. MITCHELL.
Opinion of the Court.

ated
for the purpose of paying the current and contingent expenses of the Indian Department and fulfilling treaty
stip~lations with the various tribes,"

Then follow the specific appropriations, and among them the
following:
"For the pay of seventy-six interpreters, as follows:
Seven for the tribes in Nebraska, to be assigned.to such agencies
as the Secretary of the Interior may direct, at three hundred dollars per annum, two thousand one hundred dollars."

After the specific appropriation for salaries of interpreters
the following clause appears:
"1For additional pay of said interpreters, to be distributed in
the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, six thousand
dollars."

All the subsequent Indian appropriation acts, down to and
including the act of March 3, 1881, make in the same language
the same appropriation for salaries of interpreters, and contain
a similar clause for their additional compensation.
We find, therefore, this state of legislation. By the Revised Statutes the salaries of "interpreterswere fixed, some at
$400, and some at $500 per annum, with a provision that such
compensation should be in full of all emoluments and allowances whatsoever.
By the acts in force during the appellee's term of service
the appropriation for the annual pay of interpretprs was $S00
each, and a large sum was set apart for their additional coi pensation, to be distributed by the Secretary of the Interior at
his discretion.
This course of legislation, which was persisted in for five
years, distinctly reveals a change in the policy of Congress on
this subject, namely, that instead of establishing a salary for
interpreters at a fixed amount, and cutting off all other emoluments and allowances, Congress intended to reduce the salaries
and place a fud at the disposal of the Secretary.of the In-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabusi

terior, from which, at his discretion, additional emoluments
and allowances might be given to the interpreters. The purpose of Congress to suspend the law fixing the salaries of interpreters in Nebraska at $400 per annum, is just as clear as its
purpose to suspend the section forbidding any further emoluments and allowances. Our opinion is, therefore, that the intention of Congress to fix, by the appropriation acts to which
we have called attention, the annual saaries of interpreters for
the time covered by those acts at $300 each; is plain upon the
face of the statute.
The whole question depends on the intention of Congress as
expressed in the statutes. Whether a simple failure by Congress
to appropriate any or a sufficient sum to pay the salary of an
officer fixed by previous law is of itself an expression of purpose by Congress to reduce the salary, we do not now decide.
That is not this case. On the contrary, in this case Congress
has in other ways expressed its purpose to reduce, for the time
being, the salaries of the interpreters.
This purpose is of -course irreconcilable with the provisions of
the Revised Statutes on the same subject, and those provisions
must be considered as having been suspended until they were
finally repealed by the act of -May 17, 1882. As the appellee
has -been paid in full his salary, as fixed by the later acts which
were in' force before and -during and continued in force after
his term of service, he has no cause of action against the
United States. It follows that the judgment of the Court of
Claims in his favor must be reversed,
And it

i8 80

ordered.

HOVEY & Another, Appellants, v. McDONALD & Another.
APPEAL lRO!m THE SgPHEmE COURT OF THE DISTIICT OF COLIummBIA.
igued October 10th, 18.-Decided November 5th, 1M.
-

Amenp ent-Appea--Disrict of Columb'a-Eqty-Ezecuton-f~uacbton
--Iacte-.eceive -Superdeas.
A, being entitled to a fund in the hands of the agent of Great Britain before
the Mixed Claims Commission of 1873, B, his assignee in bankruptcy, filed-

