BERNARDS TOWNSHIP v. STEBBINS.
Syllabus.

BERNA.RDS TOWNSHIP v. STEBBINS, Executor.
SA E v.. M ORRISON and another.
APPEALS FROM THE 'CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued November 7th, 8th, 1883.-Decided November 26th, 1883.
Equily-furisdction--funicipalBonds-Municipal Corporations-Parlies-SWtaute.
If commissioners, authorized by statute to subscribe in the corporate name of
a town for stock in a railroad company, and, upon obtaining the consent of
a certain majority of taxpayers, to issue bonds of the town under the bands
and seals of the commissioners, and to sell the bonds and invest the
proceeds of the sale in stock of the railroad company, which shall be held.
by the town with all the rights of other stockholders, issue, without obtaining the requisite consent of taxpayers, to the railroad company, in exchange for stock, such bonds signed by the commissioners, but on which
the seals are omitted by oversight and mistake; ind the town sets up the
want of seals in defence of an action at law afterwards brought against it
by one who has purchased such bonds for value, in good faith, and without
observing the omission, to recover interest on the bonds; a court of equity,
at his suit, will decree that the bonds be held. as valid as if actually sealed
before being issued, and will restrain the setting up of the want of seals in
the action at law.
A bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States against a town in one
State by a citizen of another, for relief against the accidental omission of
seals from bonds of the defendant, payable to bearer,* and held by the
plaintiff, some of which are owned by him, and others of which are owned
in different amounts, part by citizens of the State in which the town is, and
part by citizens of other States, and have been transferred to him by the
real owners for the mere purpose of being sued, should be dismissed, under
the act of March 3d, 1875, c. 187, § 5, so far as regards all bonds held by
citizens of the same State as the defendant, and bonds held by a citizen of
another State to a less amount than $500.

The facts are fully stated in the )pinion of the court.
. . Alvak A. Clark and 2fr. [ hoN.. 3fcCarter for alm
pellUmts Stebbins and Morrison and another.
Yr. ff. C.Pitney for Stebbins, appellee.
MAr. CourtlandtParkerfor appellees Morrison and another.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTiCon G AY delivered the opinion of the court.
These are appeals by a township in New Jersey from decrees
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of New
Jersey, upon bills in equity by the appellees for relief against
the accidental omission of seals on its bonds. The facts,
appearing by the record,, are as follows:
By the general laws of New Jersey, the inhabitants of each
township in the State are a body politic and corporate, by the
name of "The Inhabitants'of the township of
in the
county of ."
Rev. Stat. of N. J. of 1877, 1191.
On the 9th of April, 1868, the legislature of New Jersey
passed a statute entitled "An Act to authorize certain towns in
the counties of Somerset, Morris, Essex and Union to issue
bonds and take stock in the Passaic Valley & Peapack Railroad
Company," the first section of which directed the circuit court
of eithe: of those counties, on the application of twelve or more
-freeholders and residents of any township therein, situated
along the route of the railroad, to appoint three "commissioners for such township to carry into effect the purposes and provisions of this act." The next two sections are as follows:
"Snc. 2. It shall be lawful for said commissioners to borrow,
on the faith and credit of their respective townships, such sum of
money, not exceeding ten per centum of the valuation of the real
estate and landed property of such township, to be ascertained
by the assessment rolls thereof respectively for the year eighteen
hundred and sixty-seven, for a term not exceeding twenty-five
years, at a rate of interest not *exceeding seven per centum per
annum, payable semi-annually, and to execute bonds therefor,
under their hands and seals respectively; the bonds so to be
executed may be in such sums, and payable at such times and
places, as the said commissioners and their successors may deem
expedient; but no such debt shall be contracted or bonds issued
by said conimissioners of or for either of said townships, until the
written consent shall have been obtained of the majority of the
taxpayers of such township, or their legal representatives, appearing upon the last assessment roll, as shall represent a majority of
the landed property of such township (including lands owned by
non-residents) appearing upon the last assessment roll of such

BERNARDS TOWNSHIP v. STEBBINS.
Opinion of the Court.

township; such consent shall state the amount of money authorized to be raised in such township, and that the same is to
be invested in the stock of the said railroad- company, and the
signutures shall be proved by one or more of the commissioners;
the fact that the persons signing such consent are a majority of
the taxpayers of such township, and. represent a majority of the
real property of such, township, shall be proved by the affidavit
of the assessor of such township, indorsed upon or annexed to
such written consent, and the assessor of such township is hereby required to perform such service; such consent and affidavit
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county in which
such township is situated, and a certified copy thereof in
the town clerk's office of such township, and the .same or a
certified copy thereof shall be evidence of the facts therein contained, and received as evidence in any court in this State, and
before any judge or justice thereof.
"SEc. 3. The said commissioners authorized by this act may,
in their discretion, dispose of such bonds, or any part thereof, to
such persons or corporations and upon such terms as they shall
deem most advantageous for their said township, but not for less
than par; and the money that shall be raised by any loan or
sale of bonds shall be invested in the stock of said railroad company for the purpose of building the aforesaid railroad, and said
money shall be applied and used in the construction of said railroad, its buildings, equipment and necessary appurtenances, and
for no other purpose ; the commissioners respectively, in the corporate name of each of their said townships, shall subscribe for
and purchase stock in said railroad company, to the amount they
may have severally borrowed as aforesaid; and by virtue of such
subscription or purchase of stock, upon receiving certificates for
the amount of said stock so subscribed for or purchased by them,
the said townships shall acquire all the rights and privileges respectively of other stockholders of said company, and it shall be
lawful for the commissioners provided for in this act, or either of
them, with the consent of the others, or a majority of the said commissioners, to participate in and to act in all the regular and legally
authorized meetings of the stockholders, and either of them may
act as director of said company if he shall be duly elected as such."
By § 4, the commissioners were directed to report annually

31t4 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

to the township committee the amount required for the next
year to pay the interest or principal of the bonds, and to apply
in payment thereof the dividends on the stock subscribed or
purchased for the township; and any deficiency was to be
assessed and levied upon the landed property of the township,
like other taxes. By § 5,'the railroad company might agree
with the comnissioners, "in behalf of their respective townships," to pay the interest accruing "on the bonds issued by
such townships," for three years, or until the raih'oad should
be completed and earning sufficient to pay dividends equal to
the interest. By § 6, the commissioners might, after acquiring
stock, exchange it for bonds issued, and cancel the bonds so received; or they might, with such consent as mentioned in § 2,
sell the stock for cash at public sale, and apply the proceeds to
the purchase or redemption of the bonds. And by § 7, at the
end of twenty-five years, the sum due for principal and interest
on the bonds, as reported by the commissioners, was to be
assessed and levied on the landed property.
By § 9, the commissioners were required, before entering
upon the discharge of their duties, to give a bond to the township, with sureties approved by the township committee or by
the judge of the county court. By § 11, their pay and disbursements were to be "audited and paid by the township
committee, the same as other township expenses." By § 12,
the commissioners in each township were "to constitute a
board to act for their said townships respectively." And by
§ 14, all bonds issued were required to be registered in the office
of the county clerl, and the words "registered in the county
clerk's office" to be printed or written across the face of each
bond, attested by the signature of the county clerk, "and no
bond shall be valid unless so registered."
C6mmissioners for the Township of Bernards in the county
of Somerset were appointed, and gave bond to the township,
according to §§ 1, 9. On the 17'th of December, 1868, they filed
in the county-clerk's office the written consent of a number of
taxpayers, not being a majority of all the taxpayers in the
township, but being a majority in number and value of the
owners of real estate therein; with an affidavit of one of the

BERNARDS TOWNSHIP v. STEBBINS.
Opinion of the Court.

commissioners to the signatures; and an affidavit of the assessor
that the signers were a majority of the taxpayers of the township and represented a majority of the real property of the
township, and also that they were a majority of the taxpayers
of the township appearing upon its assessment roll for 1867, or
their legal representatives, and represented a majority of the
landed property of the township appearing upon that assessment roll.
In the same month of December, 1868, the comnissioners subscribed in behalf of 'the township for stock in the railroad company, of the value of $127,000, which did not exceed ten per
cent. of the assessed valuation of the landed property of the
township in 1867; and caused bonds of the township to an
equal amount to be printed in the form hereinafter set forth;
and made an arrangement with the railroad company to exchange the bonds of the township for stock in the company,
and to deliver the bonds to the company in instalments,
as calls for payments on subscriptions were made, and as
the work on the railroad progressed. The railroad was afterwards built and put in operation throuigh the town; and the
conmissioners issued to the railroad company, in exchange for
stock, instruments to the amount aforesaid, in the form of
bonds, of the denominations of $1,000, $500 and $100 respectively, signed by the commissioners, but not sealed, with interest
coupons annexed. The form of the bonds and the coupons was
as follows:
(i No.
"TOWNSHIP

'UNITED STATES

OF

]3ERNARDS,

OF AxERICA.

SO-MERSET
JERSEY.

COUNTY, STATE

$500.
OF NEW

"The Inhabitants of the Township of Bernards in the County
of Somerset acknowledge themselves to owe to bearer five hundred dollars, which sum they promise to pay the holder hereof,
at the American Exchange National Bank in the City of New
York, twenty-three years after the date hereof, and interest
thereon at the rate of deven per cent. per annum, payable semiannually, on the first days of July and January in each year, until

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the said principal sum shall'be paid, on the*presentation of the
annexed interest coupons at the said bank.
"This bond is one of a series of like tenor, amounting in the
whole to the sum of one hundred and tiventy-seven thousand
dollars, issued on the faith and credit of said township in pursuance of an act entitled 'An Act to authorize certain towns in the
counties of Somerset, Morris, Essex, and Union to issue bonds
and take stock in the Passaic Valley and Peapack Railroad
Company,' approved April 9th, 1868.
"In testimony whereo*f the undersigned commissioners of the
said Township of Bernards in the County of Somerset to carry
into effect the liurposes and provisions of the said act, duly
appointed, commissioned, and sworn, have hereunto set our hands
and seals the first day of January in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine.
"JouN H. ANDEInsoN,
"JOiiN GUERIN,
"OLIVER R. STEELE,

11Commgissioners."
"Registered in the county clerk's office.
Ross, JR.,
" County Clerk."

"WILLIAM

"$17.50. The Inhabitants of the Township of Bernards in
the County of Somerset will pay the bearer, at the American
Exchange National Bank in the City of New York, seventeen -%
dollars, on the first day of January, 1869, for six months interest
on bond No.
"Joux II.

ANDERSON,

"1JOI-r,

GUERIN,
"OLIVER R. STEELE,

C1
Commissioners."

One-fifth of the whole amount of bonds was signed by the
commissioners and delivered to the railroad company on the
16th of January, 1869, was registered on the 18th of the same
month, and was afterwards put in circulation by the company.
Upon a bill filed by certain taxpayers of an adjoining township
in the spring of 1869, the Court of Chancery of New Jersey
restrained the issue of like bonds, for want of the consent of a

BERNARDS TOWNSHIP v. STEBBINS.
Opinion of the Court

majority of all the taxpayers of the township. Lane v. &elomp,
5 C. E. Green, 82. The commissioners thereupon obtained,
and filed in the county clerk's office on the 1st of September,
1869, the written consent of other taxpayers, which, with those
whose consent had been previously filed, constituted a majority
of all the taxpayers in the township, ith similar affidavits of
commissioner and assessor; and the remaining four-fifths of the
bonds were afterwards issued and registered, and put in circulation. Of the bonds in controversy, some were issued before,
and some after, the 1st of September, 1869.
The commissioners intended to issue, and supposed that they
had issued, perfect bonds, and their failure to affix their seals
to the bonds was by oversight and mistake. The bonds were
purchased by the present owners in good faith, in open-market,
for the then market price of from eighty-five to a hundred
cents on the dollar, and without observing that they had no
seals.
Cyrus Curtiss, a citizen of New York (of whom the appellee
in the first case is the executor), held and owned such bonds to
the amount of $2,000 ; and held like bonds to the amount of
$3,000, owned by other citizens of New York, in amounts varying from $1,300 to $500 each, except that one owned only
$200, and delivered by them to him solely for the purpose of
bringing suit on the coupons; and also held coupons past due
and unpaid upon like bonds to the amount of $18,600, owned
by citizens of New Jersey, who had assigned those coupons to
him for the sole pupose of collecting the amount thereof.
Thomas H. Morrison and Gardner S. Hutchinson, citizens of
New York (the appellees in the second case), held and owned
such bonds to the amount of $10,000; and also held like bonds
to the amount of $12,000, owned by other persons, citizens of
Neiv York or Pennsylvania, in amonnts varying from $6,000
to $500 each, as well as bonds to the amount of $5,100 owned
by citizens of New Jersey, all which bonds had been transferred to them by the owners for the mere purpose of collecting
the unpaid coupons thereon.
In April, 1874, actions of debt were brought by Curtiss, and
by Morrison and Hutchinson, against the township, in the Cir-

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

cuit Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey,
to recover the amount of unpaid coupons for three years' interest on all the bonds so held by the *plaintiffs; to which the
township pleaded that the bonds were not sealed by the commissioners.
The plaintiffs in each of those actions- thereupon, in the
spring of 1876, after requesting the two surviving comnmissioners
(the third having died meanwhile) to affix their seals to the
bonds, which they declined to do unless. by order of some court
of competent jurisdiction, filed a bill in equity in the same
court, praying for a reformation of the . bonds; for an order
-that the surviving commissioners affix seals opposite the signatures; for a decree that the bonds should be deemed and taken
to be as valid and effectual in law as if they had been in fact
sealed by the commissioners before being issued; for a perpetual injunction against the setting up of the want of seals as
a defence in the action already brought, or in any future action
by the plaintiffs to recover principal or interest, due or to grow
due, on the bonds; and for further relief. Demurrers to the
bills were interposed and overruled; answers and replications
were filed, and a hearing was had upon pleadings and proofs.
At the hearing, it was objected, in behalf of the township,
that the plaintiffs, if entitled to any relief, could maintain their
bills so far only as concerned the bonds that were both owned
and held by them, and not as regarded the bonds owned by
other persons. The court overruled the objection, and entered
a final decree upon each bill that the bonds, or writings in the
nature of bonds, therein described, be held and deemed to be
as valid and effectual in law as if they had been in fact sealed
by the commissioners before being issued; and that the township be perpetually enjoined from setting up the want of seals
in the action at law already brought, or in any action to be
thereafter brought, upon any of these bonds or coupons. From
those decrees. the township has appealed to this court.
It was contended in behalf of the township that the bonds
were void: First. Because they were not under the seals of the
commissioners, as required by the statute. Second. Because
the statute did not authorize the issue -of bon'ls with annexed

BERNARDS TOWNSHIP v. STEBBINS.
Opinion of the Court.
and detachable coupons not under seal. Third. Because the
consent of the taxpayers to the borrowing of mofiey and issue
of the bonds was obtained by fraud. Fourth. Because the
consent of a majority of all the taxpayers, as well as of those
who represented a majority of the landed property of tle township, was not obtained before the subscription for stock and the
issue of the bonds. Fifth. Because the bonds were issued by
the connissioners directly to the railroad corporation in exchange for stock, instead of being soldor disposed of by the
commissioners and the money thus obtained applied to the
purchase of stock, as required by the statute.
In dealing with these objections, it must be borne in mind
that the cases before us are not actions at law upon the bonds
or coupons, but bills in equity to restrain the township from
setting up the want of seals in the actions at law heretofore
brought by those plaintiffs against the township to recover the
amount of the coupons; and the objections above recited are to
be considered so far only as they affect the question whether
the bills can be nmaintained.
It has been settled, upon fundamental principles of equity
jurisprudence, by many precedents of high authority, that when
the seal of a party, required to make an instrument valid and
effectual at law, has been omitted by accident or mistake, a
court of chancery, in order to carry out his intention, will, at
the suit of those who are justly and equitably entitled to the
benefit of fjhe instrument, adjudge if to be as valid as if it had
been sealed, and will grant relief accordingly, either by compelling the seal to be affixed, or by restraining the setting up
of the want of it to defeat a recovery at law. Smit/ v. Aston,
Freem. Ch. 308; S. C. Cas. temp. Finch, 273; Cockerell v.
1iolmee y, 1 Russ. & XIyl. 418, 424; 1adszworath v. lfendell,
5 Johns. Ch. 224; 3fontville v. Iaglgton, 7 Conn. 543; R utlatd v. Paige,2- Vt. 181. See also Viser v. .Blacldy, 1 Johns.
Ch. 607; Greee, v. .3!orri8 & Fsex Railroad Co., 1 Beasley,
165, and 2 McCarter, 469; Druiff v. Pa'kcer, L. R. 5 Eq. 131.
By the necessary effect and the very terms of the statute of
New Jersey of 1868, the money is borrowed on the credit of
the township, the stock obtained by the disposal of the bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1s8.
Opinion of the Court.

belongs to the township, the bonds are issued on behalf of the
township, and are the bonds of the township; and the commissioners, though not elected by the township, but otherwise
appointed as provided by the statute, act in issuing the bonds,
and in doing everything else that they are required by the
statute to do, as the agents of the township., This view has
been affirmed by the judgment of the Supreme Court of New
Jersey, construing this very statute, in 3forrison v. Bernard*,
7 Vroom, 219, and by. the judgment of this court upon the
effect of a similar statute of New York, in .Draper v. Spr-ingPort, 104IU. S. '01.
In Drcper v. Springport it was held that the mere fact that
the commissioners had only signed, without sealing, the bonds,
did not exempt the town from liability to a purchaser thereof
in good faith and for valuable consideration. And Mr. Justice
Bradley, in delivering judgment, said:
"It is apparent from the law that the substantial thing authorized to be done on behalf of the town was to pledge the credit of
the town in aid of the railroad company in the construction of
its road, by subscribing to its capital stock, and issuing the obli-

gations of the town in payment thereof. The technical form of
the obligations was a matter of form rather than of substance.
The issue of bonds under seal, as contradistinguished from bonds

or obligations without a seal, was merely a directory requirement. The town, indeed, had no seal ; and the individual seals
of the commissioners would have had no legal efficacy; for the
bonds were not their obligations, but the obligations of the town;

and their seals could have added nothing to the solemnity of the
instruments." "We cannot agree with the courts of the State
that the form of a seal was an essential part of the transaction."
It was argued that the power conferred upon the commissioners to issue bonds was a statutory power, defects in the
execution of which could not be supplied or relieved against in
equity. There is much learning on this subject in the books.
But Mr. Chance, upon a full review of the older cases, has
clearly demonstrated that the true ground upon which equity
grants relief is "the same 'as that on which it relieves against

BERNARDS TOWNSHIP v. STEBBINS.
Opinion of the Court.

the want of liv-ery, the want of enrolment, or any other ceremony required, either at common law or by statute, but considered as not meant to be positively essential. The main
point to be .ascertained, at least with reference to forms prescribed by act of Parliament, is whether the legislature has
attached a decisive weight to the observance of the forms."
Chance on Pow;ers, § 2989. See also 2 Sugden on Powers ('Tth
ed.) 125-129.
In Darlingtonv. Pulteney, CowT . 260, 267, Lord Mansfield
said that the reason why equity could not relieve from defects
in the execution of statutory powers to make leases was, "that
there is nothing to affect the conscience of the remainderman."
And in .De Rienze, v. Oantlhcm, 4 Johns. Ch. 85, where a
sheriff's deed of land sold by him on execution omitted, by
mistake in the description, an important part of the. estate advertised and intended to be sold and purchased, and the purchaser, with the consent of the judgment debtors, took possession of and improved the whole, and afterwards, at their
request, sold it, and conveyed by a lile description, all parties
understanding and believing that the whole was included in
both deeds, and the price paid by the second purchaser being
estimated on this basis, Chancellor Kent, upon a bill in equity
filed by the last purchaser against the debtors, restrained them
from prosecuting suits brought against him for the recovery of
the land not included in the description, and decreed that they
should release it to him.
In the present case, the commissioners, in issuing the bonds,
acted rather in the capacity of agents of the township than as
donees of a statutory power in the ordinary sense; and the
direction of the statute that the bonds should be under the
seals, as well as the hands, of the commissioners, was declared
by this court in Draperv. Sprngport, above cited, to be " a
matter of form rather than. of substance," "merely a directory
requirement," and not "an essential part of the transaction."
The bonds are in other respects in the form prescribed by the
statute. The commissioners intende(L to issue them in behalf
of the town, pursuant to the statute, and stated on the face of
the bonds that they had done so, and that they had thereto set

OCTOBER TER3M, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

their hands and seals. The town received full consideration
for the bonds, and the purchaser bought them in open market,
in good faith and for value, and in ignorance of the want of
seals.. These facts present a strong case for the interposition
of a court of equity/having jurisdiction of the cause and of the
parties, to prevent the formal defect of the want of the seals
of the commissioners from being set up to defeat an action at
law upon the bonds or coupons. The mere fact that the purchasers, at the time of their purchase, did not observe the omission of seals upon securities having in all other respects the
appearance of municipal bonds, is not such negligence as should
prevent them from applying to a court of equity to correct a
mistake of this character. See "Tadsworthv. WM-n2 dell and
_fontvillo v. ifaughton, above cited; Ilarrisv. P
erell, L.
R. 5 Eq. 1; Elliott v. Sackett, 108 U. S.
the objection that the statute did not authorize the bonds
to be issued with coupons, if it is of any validity (which we do
not intimate), will be fully open to the defendant in the actions
at law upon the coupons.
The suggestion that the consent of the taxpayers to the issue of
thebonds was obtained by fraud is not supported by the evidence.
The consent of a majority of all the taxpayers of the township has been held necessary by the court of chancery and by
the Supreme Court of New Jersey. The chancellor, in granting an injunction against the issue of bonds without such consent, expressed the opinion that the want of such consent would
afford no defence at law after the bonds had been once issued,
and had come into the hands of innocent holders for value.
The supreme court decided otherwise. .ane v. Scownp, 5 C.
E. Green, 82; i3forrison v. Bernards, 7 Vroom, 219. The
question has not, so far as we are informed, been passed upon
by the court of errors.
The exchange of the bonds directly for railroad stock would
seem, in the absence of any decision in the courts of the State
upon the point, to be a substantial compliance with the statute,
or, at the most, a matter which would not defeat the rights of
a bona &de purchaser. See Scipio v. Tf'right, 101 U. S. 665;
3ftontclab' v. Ra?&sdell, 107 U. S. 147, 160.

BERNARDS TOWNSHIP v. STEBBINS.
Opinion of the Court.

But if either the want of a written consent of a majority of
all the taxpayers, or the fact that the bonds were issued directly
in exchange for stock, is a fatal objection as against a purchaser for value and in good faith, it may be availed of by the
township in the actions at law on the coupons. If these objections are not of that character, they do not impair the equity
of the purchasers to relief against the accidental omission of
the seals of the commissioners. The validity of both these objections, therefore, may be more appropriately determined in
the actions at law.
The remaining question argued at the bar is how far the
citizenship of the real parties in interest, and the amount of the
claim of each, should affect the exercise of jurisdiction and the
extent of the decree.
The position of the plaintiffs is, that the bonds and coupons
being payable to bearer, they are entitled to sue, at law or in
equity, on all the coupons held by them; that the combination
of the holders of several claims of moderate amount against
the same defendant, for the purpose of diminishing and sharing
the expense of litigation, was entirely proper, and should be
encouraged by the court; that the bonds and coupons owned
as well as held by the plaintiffs, and by others not citizens of
New Jersey, clearly brought the case within the jurisdiction of
the court; and that to deny to citizens of New Jersey the
right to transfer their claims to the plaintiffs for the purpose
of collection in the same suit would be to discriminate unjustly
between the citizens of New Jersey and the citizens of other
States.
But, in the matter of the jurisdiction of the federal courts,
the diserhnination between saits between citizens of the same
State and suits between citizens of different States is established
by the Constitution and laws of the United States. And it
has been the constant effort of Congress and of this court to
prevent this discrimination from being evaded by bringing into
the federal courts controversies between citizens of the same
State.
In the Judiciary Act of 1789, the only express provision to
this end was that the circuit court should not "have cognizance
VOL. cix-23

OCTOBER TERI, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of any-suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or
other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless a suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said
contents if no assignment had been made, except in cases of
foreign bills of exchange." Stat. September 24th, 1789, c. 20,
§ 11 ; 1 Stat. 78 ; IRev. Stat. § 629, cl. 1. That provision has
been held not to be restricted to actions at law, but to include
bills in equity to foreclose mortgages, or to compel the specific
peformance or enforce the stipulations of contracts. Sheldon,
v. Sill, 8 How. 441 ; Corbin v. Black Hamwk County, 105 U. S.
659.
In Bcn ey v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 2S0, a bill in equity for the
partition of real estate and for an account of rents and profits,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, by a citizen of Delaware, owning a share in the
estate, against citizens of Maryland, owning other shares
therein, and to whom the owners of the remaining shares, being
citizens of the District of Columbia, and not of any State, and
therefore not authorized to sue in the Circuit Court of the
United States, had conveyed their shares without consideration,
under an agreement to reconvey upon request, and for the sole
purpose of giving jurisdiction to the federal courts, was dismissed, because the. grantors were necessary parties to the suit,
and because their conveyance, not transferring their real interests to the other p~rties, was a fraud upoh the court.
The act of March 3d, 1875, c. 137, § 5, directs that if "in any
suit commenced in a circuit court," it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court, "at any time after such suit has been
brought," "that such suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction
of said circuit court, or that the parties to said suit have been
improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or
defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable" by
the circuit court, that court "shall proceed no further therein,
but shall dismiss the. suit," and shall make such order as to
costs as shall be just; and its order of dismissal shall be reviewable in-this court on -writ of error or appeal. 18 Stat. pt. 3,
470.

BERNARDS TOWNSHIEP- v. STEBBINS.
Opinion of the Court.
In Williams v. NVottawa, 104 U. S. 209, decided by this
court since the hearing of these cases in the circuit court, an
action was brought by Williams, a citizen of Indiana, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Michigan, against a township in that State and district, upon
its bonds payable to bearer. The action, as the record on file
shows, was brought in September, 187 about six months before the passage of the act of 1875. IT appeared that Williams
personally owned only three of the bonds, of. $100 each, and
that the other bonds in suit had been transferred to him solely
for the purpose of collection with his own, by the owners
thereof, all of whom were citizens of IMichigan, except one
Tob~y, whose bonds amounted to $300 only, and whose citizenship was not disclosed by the record. The circuit court gave
judgment for the plaintiff for the amount of the bonds belong
ing to Williams and to Tobey, and in favor of the township for
the remainder. Upon a writ of error sued out by Williams to
reverse the judgment in favor of the township, this court held
that, in obedience to the act of 1875, the action should be
wholly dismissed; because, so far as concerned the bonds
owned by citizens of Michigan, who could not sue a Michigan
township in the courts of the United States, it could not be
doubted that the transfer to the plaintiff, being colorable only,
and never intended to change the ownership, was made for the
purpose of "creating a cause cognizable in the courts of the
United States;" and, as to the bonds owned by Williams and
by Tobey, there was a collusive joinder, because, when the suit
was begun, the ,amount due to each was less than $500, and
tlerefore insufficient to maintain a suit in the federal courts.
The decision in Williarn8 v. -Yoftawa establishes that the Circuit Court of the United States cannot, since the act of 1875,
entertain a suit upon municipal bonds payable to bearer, the
real owners of which have transferred them to the plaintiffs of
record for the sole purpose of suing thereon in the courts of the
United States for the benefit of such owners, who could not
have sued there in their own names, either by reason of their
being citizens of the same State as the defendant, or by reason
of the insufficient value of their claims. The principle of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
. Opinion of the Court.

decision is equally applicable to suits in equity. to assert equitable rights under such bonds.
It was argued that these bills in equity were only auxiliary.
to the actions at law, which were brought before, the passage
of the act of 1875, and therefore that act had no application.
The answer to this is twofold. First. The bills in equity, filed
since the passage of the act, are independent suits, of broader
aim than the actions at law. The actions at law are to recover
the amount of coupons only; the bills in equity seek, not
merely an injunction against setting up the defence of want of
seals in the pending actions on the coupons, but also a decree
declaring that the bonds shall be deemed valid. Second. Even
the actions at law, brought before the passage of the act of
1875, are subject, under the adjudication in Williams v..Sfot taw, to be dismissed, in whole or in part, as the facts may re
quire, in the court in which they are pending.
It follows, that these bills should~have been dismissed, so far
as regarded the bond for $200, owned by a citizen of New York
in the first case, and also as to all the bonds owned by citizens
of :New Jersey in either case. But no valid objection has been
shown-to the maintenance of these bills, so far as regards those
bonds of which the plaintiffs are the bearers, and which are
actually owned, either by themselves, or by other citizens of
New York or Pennsylvaia, to a sufficient amount by each
owner to sustain the jurisdiction of the circuit court. Tromson v. Perrine, 106 U. S. 589; Chicikaming v. Ca4_-penter, 106
U. S. 663 ; Duglas' Commissioners v. Bolles, 94 U. S. 104, 109 ;
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351, 360. The decrees of the
circuit court must be modified accordingly.
The decrees in favor of the appellees being reversed as to a
large part of their claims, they should pay costs in this court;
but as they still maintain their bills as to the rest of their
claims, they should recover costs in the court below.
The decrees of- the circuit court are reversed, and the cases
remanded with directions to enter
Decrees in confomitj/ with this opinion.
N.h. JusTIoE FmraD took no part in this decision.

