OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

SULLIVAN 'and Others v. ION SILVER MIING
COMPANY.
DT ERROP TO THE CMROIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF C6LORADO.
SubmittedNovember 6th, 1888.-Decided December 17th, 1883.

Mineral Land&-Pleading-Stautes.
A demurrer admits all facts well pleaded.
Under the Colorado Code of Civil Procedure, as at common law, facts may be
pleaded a~cording to their legal effect, without setting out the particulars
that lead to it; and necessary circunstances implied by law need not be
expressed in the plea.
Ihan action by the patentee of a placer claim to recover possession of a vein
or lode within its boundaries, an answer alleging that the vein or lode was
known to the patentee to exist at the time of applying for the patent, and
was not included in his applicaiion, well pleads the fact which, under
§ 233 of the Revised Statutes, precludes him from having any right of'
possession of the vein or lode.

I.& T.. Palttrson for plaintiffs in error.
rM. . G. S4yme8 for defendant in error.
-MR. J.ST=c GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by the Iron Silver Mining Company,
owning a tract of land or mining claim, known as the Wells
and Moyer placer claim, described by metes and bounds in the
domplaint, against Sullivan and others, to recover possession of
part of the tract, likewise described, from which it had been
ousted by the defendants. The answer originally filed was dem tred to, and the demurrer sustained.
. The defendants thereupon, by leave. of the court, filed an
amended answer, alleging that, on the 11th of March, 1879,
t6e United 'States issued to Wells and Moyer, the grantors of
the plaintiff, for the premises described in the complaint, and
kniqwn as No. 281, upon .the application for and entry of the
premises as the Wells and Moyer placer claim, a placer patent,
or patert of and for a placer minii.g claim, containing the following restrictions and exceptions:

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER MIINIG COMPANY. 551
Opinion of the Court.

"First. That the grant hereby made is restricted in its exterior
limits to the boundaries of the said lot No. 281, as hereinbefore
described, and to any veins or lodes of quartz, or other rock in
place, bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper, or other
valuable deposits, which may hereafter be discovered within said
limits, and situate, and not claimed or known to exist at the date
hereof.
"Second. That should any vein or lode of quartz, or other rock
in place, bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper, or other
valuable deposits, be claimed or known to exist within the abovedescribed premises at the .date hereof, the same is expressly excepted and excluded from these presents."
The amended answer also alleged "that at the time of the
location of said placer claim, and the survey thereof, and at
the time of the application for said patent, and at the time of
the entry of said land thereunder, and at the time and date of
the issuing and granting of said patent, a lode, vein, or deposit
of mineral ore in rock in place, carrying carbonates of lead and
silver, and of great value, was lmown to exist, and was claimed
to exist, within the boundaries and underneath the surface of
said Wells and Moyer placer claim -No. 281 ; and that the fact
that said vein was claimed to exist, and did exist as aforesaid
within said premises, was known to the patentees of said claim
at all the times hereinbefore mentioned;" and "thai the said
application for said patent by. said patentees and grantors of
said plaintiff did not include any application whatever for a
patent of or to said lode or vein within its boundaries aforesaid.
Wherefore these defendants aver that the said failure to include
said vein or lode in said application amounted to a conclusive
declaration by said patentees that they made no claim whatever to said lode or vein, or any part thereof, and that the
same was expressly excepted and excluded from, and did 'not
pass with the grant of said premises in and by said patent for
said premises."
The amended answer further alleged that on the 1st of
January, 1883, the defendants, then and now being citizens of
the United States, went upon the premises last described in the
complaint, and sunk a shaft thereon, which uncovered and ex-

OCTOBER TER1, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

posed said lode, vein, or deposit; and thereupon proceeded to
and did locate the same as a lode claim, by erecting a notice
containing~the name of the lode, the date of the location, and
their own names as locators, and marked the surface boundaries
by posts; and afterwards caused to be filed a location certificate containing the name of the lode, the names of the locators,
the date of the location, the number of feet in length claimed
on each side of the centre of the discovery shaft, and the general course and direction of said claim as near as might be.
"Wherefore the defendants claim the right to occupy and possess the said-premises in full accordance with, and by virtue of
a full compliance with, the requirements of the laws of the
United States, and of the State of Colorado, the said vein, lode,
or deposit being a part and parcel of the unappropriated public
mineral domain of the United States; and that the acts and
doings of the defendants as hereinbefore set forth constitute the
said supposed trespass complained of by the plaintiff."
The plaintiff demurred to the amended answer, because
neither of its. allegations set forth any defeice; because it
showed that neither the defendants nor their grantors had duly
discovered, located, or recorded, any lode or vein such as is described in § 2320 of the Revised Statutes, at or before the time
of the application for the placer patent, but that the defendants
located their lode claim within the boundaries of the patented
ground after the issuing of the placer patent; and because the
applicants for the placer patent were not required to apply for
the vein or lode claim, unles§ it had been duly disoovered,
located and recorded, and was owned by the applicants for the
placer patent at the time of applying for the patent.
The circuit court sustained the demurrer to the amended
answer, and gave judgment for the plaintiff, and the defendants
sued out this writ of error.
The question in this case arises under § 2333 of theRevised
Statutes, the different provisions of which will be more clearly
distinguished from each other, without affecting the meaning of
either, by separating them by periods, as follows:
"SEcT. 2333. Where the same person, association or corporation

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER MMDNG COMPANY. 553
Opinion of the Court.

is in possession of a placer claim, and also a vein or lode included
within the boundaries thereof, application shall be made for a
patent for the placer claim with the statement that it includes such
vein or lode, and in such case a patent shall issue for the placer
claim, subject to the provisions of this chapter, including such vein
or lode, upon the payment of five dbllars per acre for such vein or
lode claim, and twenty-five feet of surface on each side thereof.
The remainder of the placer claim, or any placer claim not embracing any vein or load claim, shall be paid for at the rate of two
dollars and fifty cents per acre, together with all costs of proceedings. And where a vein or lode, such as is described in section
twenty-three hundred and twenty, is known to exist within the
boundaries of a placer claim, an application: for a patent for such
placer claim which does not include an application for the vein or
lode claim shall be construed as a conclusive declaration that the
claimant of the placer claim has no right of possession of the vein
or lode claim. But where the existence of the vein or lode in a
placer claim is not known, a patent for the placer claim shall
convey all valuable mineral and other de.3osits within the boundaries thereof."
The section referred to in the third subdivision of this section
is as follows:
"SErCT. 2320. Mining claims upon veins or lodes of quartz or other
rock in place, bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper or
other valuable deposits, heretofore located, shall be governed as to
length along the vein or lode by the customs, regulations and laws
in force at the date of their location. A mining claim located
after the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-two,
whether located by one or more persons, may equal, but shall not
exceed, one thousand five hundred feet in length along'the vein or
lode; but no location of a mining claim shall be made until the
discovery of the vein or lode within the limits of the claim located.
No claim shall extend more than three hundred feet on each side
of the middle of the vein at the surface, nor shall any claim be
limited by any mining regulation to less than twenty-five feet on
each side of the middle of the vein at the surface, except where
adverse rights existing on the tenth day of May, eighteen hun
dred and seventy-two, render such limitation necessary. - The end
lines of each claim shall be parallel to each other."

554: .

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The counsel of b6th parties in their arguments have discussed
the question whether a vein or lode included within the boundaries of a placer claim, the application for which does not include an apIplication for the vein or lode claim, is excepted out

of the patent for the placer claim, if at the time of the application it is known to the applicant to exist, but no claim to the
vein or lode has been located.
In accordance with the view expressed by the circuit court
in the opinion delivered on susta-ining the demurrer to the original answer, and reported in 16 Fed. Rep. 829, the defendants
inerror maintain that by virtue of § 2333, taken in connection
with'§ 2320 therein referred to, a vein or lode within the
boundaries of a placer claim is not excepted from a patent for
the placer claim, unless a claim for the vein or lode had previously been located according to § 2320.
The plaintiffs in error contend that if the existence of the
vein or lode is known to the applicant for a placer claim, he
must include in his application for the placer claim an applicaLion for the vein or lode claim, and pay for the latter at the
higher rate, in order to obtain any title to it.
The circuit court treated the question of the construction of
this statute as one of much difficulty and of some doubt, and
as affecting numerous cases. This court should not express an
opinion upon it, unless its determination is necessarily involved
in the adjudication of the case at bar.
We are of opinion that the question is not presented for adjitdication upon the record before us. The amended answer
alleges that at the times of the location and survey of, entry
upon, and application and patent for, the placer claim, the lode
or vein was known to exist, and was claimed to exist, within
the boundaries and. underneath the surface of the placer claim,
and the fact that the vein was claimed to exist and did exist
within the premises was known to the patentees of that claim.
The phrase "claimed to exist," as used in the amended answer,
apparently intending to follow the form of patent therein set
forth, is not indeed a statement that a claim for the vein or
lode had been in due form made and located, but only that it
was contended that the vein or lode existed But the further

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER MING COMPANY. 555
Opinion of the Court.

allegation in the answer, that the vein was. known by the
patentees to exist at the times mentioned, is an allegation, in
the very words of the statute itself, of the fact which the
statute declares shall be conclusive against any right of possession of the vein or lode claim in a claimant of the placer claim
only.
Whether the words "known to exist," as used in the statute,
are satisfied by actual knowledge of the applicant, or imply
also a located claim for the vein or lode, the same meaning
must be attributed to them in the amended answer; and the
fact signified by the statute is well pleaded; for, by the'ele-"
mentary rules of pleading, facts may be pleaded according to
their legal effect, without setting forth the particulars that lead
to it; and necessary circumstances implied by law need not be
expressed in the plea. Bac. Ab. Pleas and Pleading, I, 7; Co.
Lit. 303 b. The fact that the vein or lode was known to exist
as contemplated by the statute being well pleaded, although'in
general terms, is admitted by the demurrer. Eaton v. Southby,
Willes, 131; Potmaster-G~wraZv. Tktiok, 4 Wash. C. 0. 347;
Cri8tnma v. Rusell, 5 Wall. 290. In order to present the
issue discussed in argument, the plaintiff should either have
traversed the allegation, or have replied that no claim for the
vein or lode had been located at the time in question.
We find nothing in the statutes of Colorado which changes
the rules of the common law in this respect. See Colorado
Code of Civil Procedure of 1877, §§ 48? 49, 52, 61.
The judgment must therefore be reversed, and the case remanded to the circuit court, with liberty to either party tc
move in that court to amend the pleadings. hdmen reveed

