OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

case the bridge was held to be a lawfAl structure against all
private parties, the federal government alone having the right
to object to the obstruction to the navigation of the river which
it might cause and to remove it; in this case that government
does not object, but approves and sanctions the structure; and
the plpblic benefit from it far outweighs any inconvenience
arising from its interference with the navigation of the stream.
The recent case of Escanabz Comrpany v. Ckicago, 107 U. S.
678, follows the decision in Gilman v. -Phila&4phia,and is
equally pointed and decisive.
In the light of these cases (and others of the same purport
might be cited) the claim' of the plaintiff that the construction
of the great work which was to connect, and which has since
connected, the cities of New York and Brooldyn should have
been suspended, appears to be wholly without merit.
The decree of the court below dismiwaing M8~ bill i8 cafflrmed.

Xr_3EPHIS GAS LIGHT COMPA-NY v. TAXING DISTRICT OF ShELBY COUNTY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF TENNESSEE.

Submitted November 15th, 1883.-Decided November 26th, 1883.

Co&onitulionaZ Law--Contract-Taxation.
1. The legislative grant of a privilege to erect, establish and construct gas
works, and make and vend gas in a municipality for a term of years,
does not exempt the grantees from the imposition of a license tax for the
use of the privilege conferred.
2. In order to,establish a legislative contract to exempt from taxation, the stat. ute must be explicit and unmistakable, and without doubtful words.
3. The Constitution of the United States does not profess in all cases to protect against unjust or oppressive taxation.

The facts and the contentions of the parties are stated in the
opinion of the court.
.r. Hery Craft, -r. Geo. Gaunt and _Yr. Jo8iaA Pattemon
for plaintiffs in error.

MEMtPIIS GAS CO. v. SHELBY COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

.r. J. B. fHezl1 and .Xr. C. "TF. fZekell for the defendants in error.
MR. Jus icn MnFr

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
The question presented is whether the statute of the State
under which the defendant, assessed a liceise tax of $250
against plaintiff in error is void, because it violates the contract
found in the charter of the company.
This charter was enacted November 20th, 1851, and, after giving the name of the new corporation and the names of the incorporators, it refers for the rights, privileges, powers, and
restrictions of the company to the second, third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth sections of an act incorporating the Nashville Gas Light Company,
passed November 21st, 1849, and declares that those sections, not inconsistent with the first section of this act, shall
apply to the Memphis Gas Light Company as fully and completely as though the same were fullv set forth and incorporated.
For any contract of exemption from taxation we must, therefore, look to the provisions of those sections in the charter of
the Nashville company.
These sections contain the usual powers necessary for the
successful conduct of the business of the company, its organization, its shares of stock, mode of payment, laying pipes in the
street and the like, and-after a careful examination of them we
are unable to see anything whatever which expresses a contract
for any limitation of the power of the legislature to tax the
company or its property.
Such was the opinion of the Supreme Court of Tennessee,
delivered on fendering the judgment to which this writ of error
is taken.
And though this court is bound for itself to inquire in every
such case'as this whether there existed a contract which might
be impaired, on which subject the court has very recently, at
the present term, collated the authorities in the case of Louisvill and N Aakvile .R. R. Co. v. Palme8, ant, we are unable

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

to discover any reason for dissenting from the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Tennessee on that point.
The section of the chaxter on which plaintifs counsel mainly
rely as showing a contract is the fifth section, which reads as
follows:
"S.Ec. 5. The said company shall have the privilege of erecting,
establishing and constrficting gas works, and manufacturing and
vending gas in the city of Nashville, by means of public works,
for a term of fifty years from and after the date of this act. A
reasonable price per thousand feet for gas shall be charged in the
case of private individuals, to be regulated by the prices in other
southwestern cities; and for public lights, such sum as may be
agreed upon by the company and the public authorities of N\ashville : -Provided,Said company shall never charge more than one
cent for every cubic foot of gas used, as maybe indicated by the
gas meter, or computed by the ordinary rules in such cases ; nor
shall they ever charge the corporation of the city of Nashville
more per cubic foot than they shall be getting at the same time
from the majority of the inhabitants of the city using such gas."
The argument of counsel is that if no express contract
against taxation can be found here it must be implied, because
to permit the State to tax this company by a license tax for
the privilege granted by its charter is to destroy that privilege.
But the answer is that the company took their charter subject to the same right of taxation in the State that applies to all
other privileges and to all other property. If they wished or
intended to have an exemption of any kind from taxation, or
felt that it was necessary to the profitable working of their
business, they should have required a provision to that effect in
their charter.
The Constitution of the United States does not profess in all
cases to protect property from unjust or oppressive taxation
by the States. That is left to the State constitutions and State
laws.
In the case of the E- RaRilroad CJo. v. Penneylvania,21
Wall. 492, it was said:
"1
This court has in the most emphatic terms and on every occa-

GILFILLAN v. UNION CANAL CO.
Syllabus.
sion declared that the language in which the surrender (of the
right of taxation) is made must be clear and unmistakable. The
covenant or enactment must distinctly express that there shall be
no other or further taxation. A State cannot strip herself of this
most essential power by doubtful words. It cannot by aabiguous language be deprived of this highest attribute of sovereignty.
The principle has been distinctly laid down in each of the cases
referred to. It has never been departed from."

See also Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514; Herriek v. Pandolph,13 Wall 531 ; iYortk .Mssouri B. )?. Co. v.
.faguire, 20 Wall. 40; Delaware R. 1?. Tax, 18 Wall. 206.
There is in this case no language which attempts to exempt
plaintiff from taxation, nor is there even the most remote impli-

cation of such exemption.
27w judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is afirnwed.

GILFI1LAN v. UNION

A._AL COMPA1NY OF

PENNSYLVANIA.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREMEE COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April 20th, 1883.-Decided November 26th, 1883.
ConstitutionalLaw-Contract-Corporations.
1. A provision in an act for the reorganization of an embarrassed corporation,
which provides that all holders of its mortgage bonds who do not, within
a given time named in the act, expressly dissent from the plan of reorganization, shall be deemed to have assented to it, and whiah provides
for reasonable notice to all bondholders, does not impair the obligation
of a contract, and is valid.
2. When a corporation, being embarrassed, and owing money to its mortgage
bondholders and to others, was authorized by the legislature from which
it obtained its franchises to make settlement 'with its creditors-on a plan
which provided that all holders of its mortgage bonds who did not, within a fixed period, dissent in writing from the proposed settlement,
should be deemed to have assented ; and when a large majority of such
bondholders assented to such plan, and some dissented, and the plan
went into operation: Held, that a holder of such bonds who had due
voL. CX-26

