OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

pal or interest after tte application of the proceeds of the special tax of one-twentieth of one per cent., the holders were entitled to payment out of thegeneral funds of the county. This,
we all agree, means that the payment of this balance is demandable out of funds raised by taxation for the ordinary county
uses. The mandamus applied for in that case was one "requiring the county court and the justices thereof to direct the clerk
of the county to draw a warrant on the county treasurer for
the balance of the judgment remaining unpaid, so that he might
be enabled, on its presentation, to have it paid in its order out
of the county treasury," and there was no fund out of which
the payment could be made, except that raised by taxation for
ordinary county uses. By the judgment of this court such a
mandamus was awarded.
At the next term, in 18M, the point thus decided was explicitly stated in United State8 v.. County of .acon, 99 U. S.
582, 589, and in -Yacon County v. Huidekoper, Id. 592, a majority of the court adhered to the decision and ordered judgment
accordingly. It was conceded on the argument that all the
judgments now under consideration must be affirmed unless
these cases are overruled. This a majority of the court are
unwilling to do, and judgments of affirmance are, consequently,
ordered.

EX PARTE MEAD, Executrix, Petitioner.
ORIGINA.L.
Submitted October i9th, 1883.-Decided November 12th, 1888.

Ap~eal-Bakupfcy.
rhen a claim presented for proof in bankruptcy as a debt against the bankrupt's estate is rejected by the district court, an appeal from the decision
to'the circuit court is incomplete and invalid, if the appellant fails to
give to the assignee the [notice thereof which the statute requires, within
*ten days after the decision--even though such notice may have been given

to the objecting creditor.

Petition for mandamus.

EX PARTE MEAD.
Opinion of the Court.

2i. F.
. Hactt submitted the motion for the rule. The
facts fully appear in the opinion of the court.
MP. CHEF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the

court.
James C. Mead, in his lifetime, filed with a register in bankruptcy proof of his claim against the estate of Abraham Mead,
a bankrupt. Mary E. Travis, a creditor of the bankrupt, applied for a re-examination, and uppn consideration the claim
was rejected by the district court. Pending the proceedings
James 0. Mead died, and the petitioner, his executrix, appeared
in his stead. After the rejection of the claim the executrix
took an appeal to the circuit court, and did all that was necessary to perfect such an appeal, except giving notice to the
assignee within ten days after the entry of the decision. This
she did not do, but she did give notice to the objecting creditor
within the prescribed time. The circuit court, on the application of the assignee, refused to entertain the appeal, because of
the failure of notice to him. The petitioner now seeks by
mandamus to require the circuit court to take the case and
preceed therewith.
By see. 4980 of the Revised Statutes "appeals may be taken
from the district to the circuit courts in all cases in equity"
arising under the bankrupt act . •. . ; "and any supposed
creditor, whose claim is wholly or in part rejected, or an assignee who is dissatisfied with the allowance of a claim, may
appeal from the district court to the circuit court for the same
district;" but by sec. 4981 no such appeal can be allowed, unless, among other things, notice thereof be given "to the
assignee or creditor, as the case may be, or to the defeated
party in equity, within ten days after the entry of the decree
or decision appealed from." If a supposed creditor takes an
appeal from an order rejecting his claim, he must, under the
provisions of see. 4984, file in the clerk's office of the circuit
court "a statemeit, in writing, of his claim, setting forth the
same, substantially, as in a declaration for the same cause of
action at law, and the assignee shall plead or answer thereto in
like manner, and like proceedings shall be thereupon had in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

pleadings, trial, and 'determination of the cause, as in action
at law commenced and prosecuted in the usual manner in the
courts of the United States."
In Wgood v. Bailey, 21 Wall. 640, it was decided trat the
omission to give .notice to an assignee of an appeal from a decree in his favor in a suit in equity was fatal to the appeal.
The effect of the ruling in that case is that the statute makes
the notice within the prescribed time "a condition of the right
of appeal" under sec. 4980. That seems to us conclusive of
the present case. Proceedings under sec. 5081 for the re-examination of a claim filed against a bankrupt's estate are in the
nature of a suit against the assignee for the establishment of
the claim. A creditor may move for the re-examination, and,
under general order in bankruptcy No. 34, may be required
to form the issue which is to be certified to the district court
for determination, but the assignee alone can appeal from an
order of allowance, and if the supposed creditor appeals the assignee must defend in the circuit court, where the proceedings
axe against him. Hence the necessity, for notice to him in
such cases; and, in our opinion, the words "to the assignee or
creditor, as the case may be," in sec. 4981, mean to the assignee
if the appeal is by the supposed creditor, and to the supposed
creditor if it is by the assignee.
As, upon the petitioner's own showing, the circuit court
properly refused to entertain his appeal,
Tule akedfor i8 denied, and tze petition, dismiesed.
rz

ALABAMA
N .ERROR

GOLD

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
v. NICHOLS.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted October 29th, 1888.-Decided November 12th, 1883.

Ap.peal-udgment-Turisdiction--Texas.
It is within the discretion of a circuit court of the United States, sitting in the
State of Texas, if a plaintiff appears in open court and remits a part of the

