OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

fendants in breaking and entering the store at East Saginaw,
and taking therefrom and carrying away goods of the plaintiffs
of the value of $20,000, and coinverting the same to their own
use, and preventing the plaintiffs from carrying on their lawful
business in the store. After the defendants in the trespass suit
had appeared therein by attorney, and demanded a trial, and
given the like notice of defence as was given in the suit for
trespass brought by J. Leroux & Co., nothing further was done in
the suit. In October, 1878, Hudson (the assignee), Matthews
(the marshal), and Wells filed a bill in equity, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Easteni District of Michigan,
-against Max Schott, making the like allegations, mutati8 mutandis, as to the goods taken from Max Schott, as were made
in the bill filed by J. Leroux & Co., in regard to the goods
taken from them, and containing a like prayer for relief and
for an injunction. Like proceedings took place, except that a
demurrer was embodied in the answer instead of beigm filed
separately. The answer was of a like -character, the proofs
and protest were identical, and a like decree was entered, from
which the defendant appealed. The same questions are involved as in Leroux v. Ibdson, the facts are substantially the
same, and the same conclusions are reached.
Tie decree of the circuit court is reversed, and Mhe cause is remanded to that court, with direction to dismiss the i11.

RAINI)ALL v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILPZOAD
COTMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued November 16th, 1883.-Decided December 10th, 1883.

Evidence-Haster and Servant-Practice-ailroa---Statztes- erdict.
When the evidence given at the trial, with all the inferences that the jury
could justifiably draw from it, is insufficient to support a verdict for the
plaintiff, so that such a verdict, if returned, must be set aside, the court
may direct a verdict for the defendant.

RANDALL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R.R. CO.

479

Statement of Facts.
A ground switch, of a form in common use, was placee in a railroad yard,
in a space six feet wide between two tracks; the lock of the switch
was in the middle of the space; and the handle, when lying flat extended
to within a foot of the, adjacent rail, and could be safely and effectively
worked by standing in the middle opposite the lock, using reasonable care.
The brakeman of a train on one of the tracks, while working at the switch,
standing at the end of the handle, was struck by an engine on the other track:
Held, that there was no such proof of fault on the part of the railroad corporation, in the construction and arrangement of the switch, as would
support an action against it for the injury.
A brakeman, working a switch for his train on one track in a railroad yard,
is a fellow servant with the engineman of another train of the same corporation upon an adjacent track; and cannot maintain an action against
the corporation for an injury caused by the negligence of the engineman
in driving hIs engine too fast and not giving due notice of its approach,
without proving negligence of the corporation in employing an unfit
engineman.
A statute which provides that a bell or whistle shall be placed on every locomotive engine, and shall be rung or sounded by the engineman or fireman
sixty rods from any highway crossing, and until the highway is reached,
and that "the corporation owning the railroad shall be liable to any person
injured for all damages sustained" by reason of neglect so to do, does not
make the corporation liable for an injury caused by negligence of the
fireman in this respect, to a fellow servant.

This is an action against a railroad corpbration by a brakeman in its employ, for personal injuries received, while working
a switch, by being struck by one of its locomotive engines.
The declaration, in seven different counts, alleged as grounds
of action that the defendant negligently constructed and kept
its tracks and switches in a defective and dangerous condition;
that the defendant, by one of its agents and servants, who was
at the time unskilful, negligent and unfit to perform the business and employment that he was engaged by the defendant to
perform, and who vas engaged in a service for the defendant
other and different from the service in which the plaintiff was
engaged, and whose negligence, 'unskilfulness and unfitness
were known to the defendant, negligently propelled one of
its locomotive-engines against and over the plaintiff ; that this

was done without sounding aniy whistle or ringing any bell, as
required by the laws of the State of West Virginia; and that
the defendant neglected proper precautions in the selection and

employment of its agents and servants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

A statute of West Virginia provides that "a bell or steam
whistle shall be placed on each locomotive engine, which shall
be rung or whistled by the engineer or fireman at the distance
of at least sixty rods from the place where the railroad crosses
any public street or highway, and be kept ringing or whistling
until such street or highway is reached," under a penalty of not
exceeding $100 for each neglect; and that "the corporation
owning the railroad shall be liable to any person injured for all
damages sustained by reason of such neglect." Stat. of W. Va.
of 1873, ch.' 88, ยง 31.
The evidence introduced at the trial proved the following
facts to the satisfaction of the court: The injury occurred at
night, at a place where, as the plaintiff himself testified, "there
was one network of tracks," in the defendant's railroad yard,
near the junction of a branch road with the main road, and
about ton rods from a highway crossing. The plaintiff had
previously been employed on another part of the road. On
the night in question in the performance of his duty as a
brakeman on a freight train, he unlocked a switch which
enabled his train to pass from one track to arother; and he
was stooping down, with his lantern on the ground beside him,
to unlock the ball of a second switch to let the engine of his
train pass to a third track, when he was struck and injured by
the tender of another freight engine, in no way connected with
his train, backing down on the second track. The tender
projected ten inches beyond the rail. The distance between
the adjacent rails of the second and third tracks was about six
feet. The second switch was a ground switch of a kind in
common use, the lock of which was in the centre of the space
between the two tracks; and the handle of which was about,
two feet long, and when lying flat extended towards either
track, and when thrown one way opened the switch, and when
thrown the other way closed it. The switch could be worked
efficiently and safely by a man standing midway between the
two tracks, using reasonable care. It could not be safely
worked by standing at the end'of *the handle while an engine
was coming on the track next that end. Upright switches
could not be used at a place where the tracks were so near

RANDALL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R.R. CO.
Statement of Facts.

together, without seriously interfering with the moving and
management of the trains.
The plaintiff testified that he had never worked a ground
switch before, and that the first switch was au upright switch.
But he admitted on cross-examination that the two kinds of
switches were unlocked in the same manner, and the other evidence established beyond doubt that the first switch was also a
ground switch.
.A single witness, who had been a brakeman, called for the
plaintiff, in answer to a question, often repeated, of his cbunsel,
whether that was a safe and, proper switch to be used at that
point, testified that he could not say it was a very safe place at
that time there; that he thought that was not a proper kind of
switch, and an upright switch would have been more convenient to handle; that he did not think it Was a very safe
ball there; that he thought it was not a safe ball there; and
that it could not be unlocked without danger while an engine
or train was coming upon the other track.
The engin which struck the plaintiff was being driven at a
speed of about twelve miles an hour, by an engineman in the
defendant's employ, and there was evidence tending to show
that it had no light except the headlight, and no bell, and that
its whistle was not soundid.
There was no evidence that the tracks were improperly constructed, or that the engineman was unfit for his duty. The
other grounds of action relied on were improper construction
and arrangement of the switch; negligence of the defendant in
running its engine, by an unskilful and negligent engineman,
alleged to have been engaged in a different service for the defendant from that in which the plaintiff was engaged; and
omission to comply with the requirements of the statute of
West Virginia.
At the close of the whole evidence (of which all that is material is above stated), the court directed the jury to return a
verdict for the defendant, because the evidence was such that
if a verdict should be returned for the plaintiff, the court would
be compelled to set it aside. A verdict for the defendant was
accordingly returned, and the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
VOL. cM--31

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

-Xr.B. ). -Dovener for the plaintiff in error, cited Hougk v..
Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; Chamberlainv. X c .&X.
1. Co.,
11 Wis. 248; - 0. acX. on & G. -. B. Co. v. _Allritton, 38
:Miss. 242; Paulmierv. Erie B. B. Co., 5 Vroom, 151; Yashville P.2. Co. v. Elliot, 1 Coldw. (Tenn.) 611; .Hayne8v. East
-Tenn. & Geo. Railroad, 3 Coldw. 222; Wood on Master
and Servant, sec. 35(; Wharton on the Law of Negligence,
sees: 211, 212, and 232a; Railroad Co. v. Fort, 17 Wall. 553;
Fordv. FitchburgB. B. Co., 110 Mass. 240.
.r.

John K. Cowen for the defendant in error.

MR. TusrIcE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. After
reciting the facts as above, he said:
1. It is the settled law of this court, that when the evidence
given at the trial, with all inferences that the jury could justi-fiably draw from it, is insufficient to support a verdict for the
plaintiff, so that such a verdict, if returned, must be set aside,
the court is not bound to submit the case to the jur , but may
direct a verdict for the defendant. Pleasants v. Fant, 22
Wall. 116; H~erbertv. Butler, 97U. S. 319; Bowditel v. Bost6n,
101 U. S. 16; Griggs v. Houston, 104 U. S. 553. And it has
recently been decided by the House of Ldrds, upon careful
consideration of the previous cases in England, that it is for the
judge to say whether any facts have been established by
sufficient evidence, from which negligence can be reasonably
and legitimately inferred; and it is for the jury to say whether
from those facts when sdibmitted to them, negligenc6 ought to
be inferred. .Xetroolitan Railway Co. v. Jackon, 3 App.
Cas. 193.
Tried by this test, there was no sufficient evidence of any
negligence on the part of the railroad company in the construction and arrangement of the switch, to warrant a verdict
for the plaintiff on that ground. The testimony of the plaintiff
and of his witness was too slight. A railroad yard, where trains
are made up, necessarily has a great number of tracks and
switches close to one another, and any one who enters the service

RANDALL v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R.R. CO.

483

Opinion of the Court.

of a railroad oorporation, in any work connected with the making up or moving of trains, assumes the risks of that condition
of things. Although it was night, and the plaintiff had not
been in this yard before, his lantern afforded the means of perceiving the arrangement of the switch and the position of the
adjacent tracks. The switch was of a form in common use, and
was, to say the least, quite as fit for its place and purpose as an
upright switch would have been. It could have been safely and
efficiently worked by standing opposite the lock, midway between the tracks, using reasonable care; and it was unnecessary,
in order to work it, to stand, as the plaintiff did, at the end of
the handle, next the adjacent track.
2. The general rule of law is now firmly established, that
one who enters the service of another takes upon himself the
ordinary risks of the negligent acts of his fellow servants in
the course of the employment. This court has not hitherto
had occasion to decide who are fellow servants, within the
rule. In Packet Comany v. _WcCue, 17 Wall. 508, and in
.Railroad Company v. Fort, 17 Wall. 553, the plaintiff maintained his action because at the time of the injury he was-zot"
acting under his contract of service with the defendant; in tlIe
one case, he had wholly.ceased to be the defendant's servant;
in the other, being a minor, he was performing, by direction of
his superior, work outside of and disconnected with the con.
tract which his father had made for him with the defendant.
In ffougi, v. Railway Company, 100 U. S. 213, and in 'Wabaeh
Railway Conpany v. .c.Daniel8, 107 U. S. 454, the action
was for the fault of the master; either in providing an unsafe
engine, or in employing unfit servants.
Nor is it necessary, for the purposes of this case, to undertake to lay down a precise and exhautive deflnition of the
general rule in this respect, or to weigh the conflicting views
which have ]irevailed in the courts of the several States; because persons standing in such a relation to one another as did
this plaintiff and the engineman of the other train are fellow
servants, according to the very great preponderance of judicial
authority in this country, as .well as the uniform course of
decision in the House of Lords, and in the English and Irish

.484:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

courts, as is clearly shown by the cases cited in. the margin.*
They axe employed and-paid by the same master. The duties
of the two bring them to'work at the same place at the same
time, so that the negligence of the'one in doing his work may
injure the other in doing his work. Their separate services
have an immediate common object, the moving of the trains.
N'either works under the orders or control of the other. Each,
by entering into his contract of service, takes the risk of the
negligence of the other in performing his service; and neither
can maintain an action: for an injury caused by such negligence, against the corporation, their common master.
The only cases cited by the plaintiff, which have any tendency to support the opposite conclusion, are the decisions of
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in C6ambersin v. .Afilwaukee
& .Afissis8psi} Railroad Co., 11 Wis. 248, and of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee in Haynes v. _Eat Tennessee & Georgia
Railroad Co., 3 Coldw. 222, each of which wholly rejects the
doctrine of the master's exemption from liability to one servant
* arwell v. Boston. & Worcester Railroad Co., 4 Met. 49 ; ETolden v.
Fitchburg Railroad Go., 129 -Mass. 268 ; Coon v. Syracuse & Utica Railroad
Co., 5 N. Y. 492 ; Wright v. New York Central Railroad Co,, 25 N. Y. 562 ;
Besel v. New York Central Railroad (Jo., 70 N. Y. 171 ; Slater v. Jewett, 85
N. Y. 61 ; McoAndrews v. Burns, 10 Vroom, 117; Smith v. Oxford Iron Co.,
18 Vroom, 467 ; Lehigh Valley Coal Co. v. Jones, 86 Penn. State, 482 ;
WFhaalan v. Mad River Railroad Co., 8 Ohio State, 249 ; Pittsburgh,Fort
Wayne 4 Chicago Railway Co. v. Devinney, 17 Ohio State, 197; Slattery v.
Toledo & Wabash Railway Co., 23 Iudiana, 81 ; Smith v. Potter,46 MIich.
258; 3foseley v.-Chamberlain, 18 Wis. 731 ; Gooper v. Milwaukee & Prairie
du Chien Railway Co., 28 Wis. 668; Sullivan v. ".Missippi & Nissouri Railroad Co., 11 Iowa, 421 ; Peterson v. Whitebreast Coal Co., 50
Iowa, 673 ; oster v. Minnesota Central Railroad Go., 14 Minn: 277 ; Ponlon
v. Wilmington & Weldon Railroad Co., 6 Jones, N. C. 245; Louisville
Railroad Co. v. Robinson, 4 Bush, 507; Mobile -& .Montgomery Railroad Co.
v. Smith, 59 Ala. 245 ; Hogan v. Central Pacific Railroad Co., 49 Cal 128 ;
Kielley v.Belcher Mining Co., 8 Sawyer, 500 ; Hdtchinson v.York, Newcastle
& Berwick Railway Co., 5 Exeh. ,343 ; Bartonshill Coal Co. v.Reid, 8 Maeq.
266 ; BarlonshillCoal Co. v. McGuire, 3 Macq. 800 ; Wilson v. Merry, L. R.
1 H. L. Se. 826 ; Morgan v. Vale of Neath Railway Go., 5 B. & S. 570. 786 ;
S. C. L. R. I Q. B. 149 ; Tunney v. Midland Railway Co., L. R. 1 0. P. 291;
Charlesv. Taylor, 3 L. R. C. P. D. 492; Conway v. Belfast & Northern Counties
Railway Go., Ir.R. 9 0. L., 498, and Ir. R. 110. L. 345.

ELLIS v. DAVIS.
Syllabus.

for the negligence of another, and the first of which has been
overruled by the later cases in the same State.
This action cannot, therefore, be maintained for the negligence of the engineman in running his engine too fast, or in
not giving due notice of its approach.
3. The statute of West Virginia, on which the plaintiff
relies, has no application to this case. There is no evidence
that the engine which struck the plaintiff was about to cross a
highway; and the main, if not the sole, object of the statute
evidently was to protect travellers on the highway. O')onndl
v. PTrovidence & orcester Railroad Co., 6 R. I. 211 ; Hfarty
v. Central Railroad Co., 42 N. Y. 468. It may perhaps.inelude passengers on the trains, or strangers not trespassers on
the line of the, road. But it does not supersede the general
rule of law which exempts the corporation from liability to its
own servants for the fault of their fellow servants.
AJyment afflnned.

ELLIS and Others v. DAVIS.
APPEAL FROX THE CIROUr COURT OF THE UITET STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOISLANA..
Argued November 9th and 12th, 1883.-Decided December 10th, 1883.
Conflict of Laws-Constittdional Law--furisdictin---Louisiana-PracticeProbateof Wills-Wills.
1. When an heir at law brings a suit in equity to set aside the probate of a
will in Louisiana as null and void, and to recover real estate ; and prays
for an accounting of rents and profits by an adverse party in possession,
who claims under the will, this court will refuse to entertain the prayer
for recovery of possession, if Ahe complainant has a plain, adequate, and
complete remedy at the common law. Hipp v. Babin, 19 Howard, 271,
affirmed.
2. Circuit courts, as courts of equity, have no general jurisdiction for annulling or affirming the probate of a will. Broderick's Will, 21 Wall.
603, affirmed.
3. Jurisdiction as to wills, and their probate as such, is neither included in
nor excepted out of the grant of judicial power to the courts of the
United States. So far as it is exparte and merely administrative, it is

