TER. HAUTE & INDIANA R. R. CO. v. STRUBLE. 381
Syllabus.

64 N. Y. 173; ITandy v. -Daer,
89 N. Y. 334; Bocky 3Mountain
IYat. Bank v. Bliss, Id. 338.
We have considered all the objections made to the declaration. In our opinion-none of them are well founded.
Our conclusion is, therefore, that the declaration was sufficient, and it follows that
The judgment tf toe ci'cui court must be reversed, and the
cause remandedforfurtheryroceedings in conformty with

thlis opinion.
Case No. 122, Jon I Adams d Co. v. Adna C. Conn, is in
all respects similar to the case just decided, and was submitted
on the same arguments and briefs. The judgment in that case
must, therefore, be re.versed, and the cause remanded to the circuit

court for further proceedings, in conformity with the opinion
announced in the case No. 121.

TERRE HAUTE & INDIANA RAILWAY COMPANY
v. STRUBLE.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN" DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued November 14th, 1883.-Decided November 26th, 1883.

Contract-Practice-Review.
1. A railway company, in consideration of the undertakings of S. in a written
agreement, agreed therein to send all live stock coming over its road to
East St. Louis, to the stock yard of S. at that place, except such as
should be specially ordered otherwise by shippers or owners, and to pay
him therefor an agreed rate for loading and an agreed rate for unloading:
Held, that this agreement applied to all live stock shipped in the ordinary course of the company's business over its road, the direction of
which was not otherwise specially ordered by shippers, and which it was
possible for the company to have loaded at the stock yard of S. ; and, that
on a breach on the part of the company being proved, without fault on
the part of S., he could recover from the company damages in consequence of stock being sent by the company to another stock yard at that
terminus.
2. The action of the court below in denying a motion for a new trial is not
subject to review.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Action on a written contract under seal to recover damages
from the railway company for a breach. The essential facts
appear in the opinion of the court.
-'. John G. Filliamz for the plaintiffs in error.
X'. ,Teferson Chandlerfor the defendant in error.
Mnz. JUSTICE HA RL&N delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought by Struble, the defendant in error,
to recover damages for an alleged breach of a written contract
entered into between him and the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Railroad Company. A verdict and judgment were rendered
in favor of plaintiff for the sum of $10,440. The defendant
moved for a new trial and in arrest of judgment, and both
motions having been denied, the case has been brought here for
review.
By the contract in question Struble obligated himself to build
and keep in good order on his leased grounds, in East St. Louis,
Illinois, all necessary stockyards and feeding pens suitable for
the reception, feeding, handling, loading and unloading of live
stock which might be shipped or transported over the Terre
Haute and Indianapolis Railroad to and from East St. Louis;
to receive and unload all live stock over that road; to collect
all freight and charges on same, and pay over to the company
or its authorized agents all moneys so collected; to order from
the proper agent of the company all cars necessary for the
transportation of live stock from East St. Louis; to load in a
proper manner all live stock for transportation from that place
by that company; to bed such cars at a cost to shippers of not
more than one dollar per car, to be collected by him from shippers ; and to attend to all other necessary matters pertaining to
the safe and prompt loading of all such live stock for traqsportation over that road.
The company, in consideration of the performance by Struble
of the stipulations of the contract, agreed to build all necessary
loading shutes for the use of the company connected with said
yards; to send all live stock coming to East St. Louis over its
road to Struble's yards, except such as may be specially ordered

TER. HAUTE & INDIANA R. R. CO. v. STRUBLE. 383
Opinion of the Court.
otherwise by shippers or owners; to pay him fifty cents per
load for all stock received by him over the road and unloaded
in his yards, and two dollars for each and every car of live
stock loaded by him to be transported by the company from
East St. Louis; and to give him the loading of all live stock
which may be transported over its road from that city.
Struble's yards were completed and opened for business in
December, 1870. From that date until some time in October,
1873, all live stock coming to East St. Louis over defendant's
line was unloaded at those yards, and live stock shipped over
that road from that city was loaded by Struble, Early, however, in the fall of 1873, the. National Stock Yards were completed and.ppened for business. They were just outside of
the corporate limits of East St. Louis, and near defendant's
,road.
The plaintiff claimed that up to October, 1873, he performed
all the conditions of the contract, and was ready, willing, and
-able to comply with it in all respects, until it should, by its own
terms, be terminated; but that he was prevented by defendant
after that date from fully executing it. All this the defendant denied.
The record, contains numerous assignments of error, but we
shall notice only such as are relied on in argument. They
seem to embrace every essential question in the case.
1. It is claimned that the court below erred in admitting evidence offered by the plaintiff. The specification under this
head refers to evidence as to the number of cars loaded with
live stock and taken by the defendant from the National Stock
Yards, between August 1st, 1874, and April 1st, 1880. The
contention of plaintiff was that, within the meaning of the contract, he was entitled to load those cars, and recover therefor
from the defendant the price fixed in the contract for such services; this, upon the alleged ground that that stock had not
been specially ordered by shippers or owners to the National
Stock Yards, and could-have been directed by the defendant to
Struble's yards had it made any or proper effort to do so. In
this view the evidence objected to was competent, as furnishing
a basis to estimate the damages which plaintiff sustained by

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

reason of the breach of the contract, if such breach was established by the evidence.
2. The court, among other things, said to the jury that in
determining the quantity of stock that would probably have
been shipped from the plaintiff's yards, they should include only
such as the jury believed would have been possible for the defendant to direct to those yards. In the same connection the
court said:
"The jury in considering the meaning of the words ' all live
stock which may be transported over the said railroad from East
St. Louis,' found in the last clause of the contract sued on, must
determine from all the evidence before them what stock is ineluded. The words evidently apply to such stock as in the ordidary course of the defendant's business should be shipped from
that point over their line of railroad. It applies to all such stock,
whetheriloaded at plaintiff's yards or some other yards used for
loading stock so shipped. As already suggested, it should be applied only to stock which it was possible for defendant to have
loaded by plaintiff. It does not apply to stock, the owner or
shipper of which directed the loading to be done by some person
other than the plaintiff, and over the loading of which defendant
had no control."
We are of opinion that there was no error in these instructions. The contract contemplated, upon the part of Struble, all
the preparations necessary in and about his yards to meet the
necessities of the company's business in the transportation of
live stock; and upon the part of the company that it would do
all it could, in the absence of special orders from shippers, to
bring live stock to plaintiff's yard to be by him loaded in cars
for transportation over defendant's road. Such was, in substance, the direction given to the jury. The court could not,
under any reasonable interpretation of the contract, have said
less than it did.
3. It is assigned for error that the court overruled defendant's motion for a new trial. A large part of the printed argument on behalf of defendant is devoted to a discussion of the
grounds assigned in support of the motion for a new trial. But

MILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK.
Statement of Facts.

the action of the court below in refusing a new trial is not subject to review here. This has long been settled by the decisions
of this court. Railroad Co. v. Fralof,100 U. S. 24; Wabazh
Railway Co. v. .AchDanielM, 107 id. 456.
The judgment must be affirmed.
It i8 80 ordered.

MILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK and Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 6th, 183.-Declded November 26th, 1883.

ConstitutionalLaw-

avigable Watem--Nuiance.

1. A bridge erected over the East River, in the harbor of New York, in accord-

2.

3.

4.

5.

ance with authority derived from Congress and from the legislature of
New York, is a lawful structure which cannot be abated as a public
nuisance. So far as it obstructs navigation, it obstructs it under an authority which is empowered to permit the obstruction.
It is competent for Congress, having authorized the construction of a bridge
of a given height, over a navigable water, to empower the secretary of
war to determine whether the proposed structure will be a serious obstruction to navigation, and to authorize changes in the plan of the proposed structure.
When the head of an executive department is required by law to give information on any subject to a citizen, he may ordinarily do this through
subordinate officers in his department.
The navigable waters of the United States include such as are navigable in
fact, and which, by themselves or their connections, form a continuous
channel for commerce with foreign countries or among the States : Over
these Congress has control by virtue-of the power vested in it to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States.
The former cases, in which the court has considered the power of Congress to authorize the construction of bridges over navigable streams,
referred to and considered.

Bill in equity to abate a nuisance.

On the 16th of April, 1867, the legislature of New York
passed an act creating a corporation by the name of the New
York Bridge Company, for thc pur, ose of constructing and
VOL. cx -25

