OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

The lot set off to the United States, and afterwards sold to
Morris and Greenleaf, is within the same principle.
The declaration in the preliminary contract of 1793, between
the comnissioners and them, that the latter were entitled "of
course to the privilege of wharfing annexed" to these lots,
while not evidence of a contract to control the terms of the
subsequent more formal instrument, is of weight as showing
what at that time was understood to be included in a description of the lots.
When to this we add that no act of Congress has ever asserted ownership of these wharves or landing places, oi the
rights of a riparian owner, while they have conferred on the
authorities of the District the power of regulating wharves,
private and public, We are forced to -the conclusion that these
rights are left with the owner of the squares certified to Notley
Young in the division with the United States.

CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD COMPANY and
Another. v. UNJION ROLLING MILL COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOP.

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued December 6th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Contract-Equit/-Lien--Praice--ules.
1. Where, in a suit in equity several defehdants have independent rights in

the subject-Matter of the controversy, and one defendant, having answered setting up his particular right, files a cross-bill to enforce it, and
the causes iiroceed together and are heard together, and an interlocutory
decree is entered to protect and enforce the rights thus set up, entitled
as of both suits, the complainant in the original suit cannot, unless upon
consent, dismiss his bill and thus deprive the defendant of the right acquired by the decree.
2. When one defendant in a suit in equity pleads to the jurisdiction, and another defendant answers setting up independent rights in the subjectmatter of the controversy, and no notice is taken of the plea to the jurisdiction, and a final decree is entered sustaining the rights set up in the
answer, the complainant cannot have his bill dismissed under the 88th,

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION'ROLLIG IMILL CO.

'703

Statement of Facts.
Rule for failure to reply to the plea: especially when appeal has been
taken and the defendant pleading to the jurisdiction is not party to the
appeal.
3. Under the statutes of Illinois, Rev. Stat. Ill. ch. 82, ยง 51, a person who contracted to deliver rails to a railroad company for use in the construction
of its road, the deliveries to extend over a period of time, and who complied with his contract, and who commenced proceedings within six
months after the date of the last delivery to enforce a lien therefor under
the statute, had a valid lien upon the property superior to that acquired
by a trust created between the date of the last delivery of the rails and
the commencement of the proceedings to enforce the lien ; and such lien
was not affected by a special agreement that the contractor should have
a lien on the rails till payment, and that the possession of the railroad
should be the possessioh of the contractor ; nor by an agreement to give
credit to the purchaser beyond the time within which the statutory lien
should be enforced, when the purchaser failed to perform the conditions
upon which that credit was agreed to be given.
4. Under the circumstances in this case there was no error in rendering a personal decree against the Chicago & Alton Railroad Company, and awarding execution against it in favor of the contractor.

The following statement of the case was prepared by the
court to precede its opinion.
The original bill in this case was filed January 8th, 1876, by
John B. Dumont, a citizen of the State of New Jersey, against
the Chicago and Illinois River Railroad Company, the Chicago
Railway Construction Company, the Chicago and Alton Railroad Company, and the Union Rolling Mill Company, which,
for the sake of brevity, will be called respectively the Illinois
River Railroad Company, the Construction Company, the
Alton Railroad Company, and the Rolling Mill Company, all
corporations organized under the laws of the State of Illinois,
and Bradford Hancock, as receiver of the Construction Com
pany, and Corydon Beckwith, both citizens of the State of
Illinois.
The purpose of the bill was the foreclosure of a deed of trust.
The bill averred in substance as follows: On March 1st, 1875,
the Illinois River Railroad Company, claiming to be the owner
of a railroad constructed and being constructed between Joliet,
Will County, and Sireator, in La Salle County, in the State of
Illinois, and the Construction Company, claiming to be the
owner of certain lands in Grundy County in the sanre State,

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Statement of Facts.

entered into an agTeement with the Alton Railroad Company by
which the Illinois River Railroad Company leased its right of
way and its railroad'constructed and to be constructed, and all its
other property, except engines and cars, to the Alton Railroad
Company forever, upon certain terms and conditions therein
mentioned. Afterwards, on the same March 1st, 1875, the
Illinois River Railroad Company executed and delivered its
bonds of that date with interest coupons attached, one thousand
in number, and for $1,000 each, payable thirty years after date,
with interest at seven per cent., payable semi-annually, and on
the same day, jointly with the Construction Company and John
H. Rice, its trustee, executed a deed of trust to George Straut
to secure the payment of the bonds. The deed of trust conveyed to Straut all the railroad owned or occupied by the Illinois River Railroad Company between Joliet and the Mazon
River, and all the property of every kind (except engines, cars,
and tools), however and whenever acquired by it between said
points, and the railroad company covenanted by said trust
deed that it had a perfect title to the railroad and other property so conveyed, subject only to the lease above mentioned.
By the same deed the Construction Company and Rice, its
trustee, conveyed to Straut its lands situate in Grundy County,
ilinois, and covenanted that it had good title thereto, and that
the lands were free from encumbrances.
Of said one thousand bonds, only -those numbered from I to
414 inclusive, and from '01 to 1,000 inclusive, were issued.
The interest on these bonds had not been paid. They were all
held either by bonafire purchasers or pledgees.
The deed of trust provided that in case of default in the payment of any interest on the bonds, or in the performance of
any covenant in said deed of trust contained to be performed
by the Illinois River Company or the Construction Company,
and in case such default should continue six months, then the
trustee might take possession of the property conveyed by the
deed of trust, and apply the issues and profits thereof to the
payment of the liabilities of the Illinois River Railroad Company and the Construction Company, as therein provided.
The covenants of seizin, for quiet enjoyment, and against

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLIN.G MILL CO.

705

Statement of Facts:

encumbrances, made by the Illinois River Railroad Com.
pany and the Construction Company in the deed of trust
contained, were broken on March 1st, 1875, and such default had continued more than six months. On March
1st, 1875, the Illinois River Railroad Company and the Construction Company were indebted to the Rolling' Mill Company in a large sum of money for niaterials furnished for the
construction of said road, which the Rolling Mill Company
claimed to be a lien thereon, but its claim was subject to the
claims of bondholders represented by the complainant.
On September 13th, 1875, John F. Slat~r, being the holder
and Qwner of bonds numbered from 1 to 474 inclusive, applied
to Straut, the trustee, to take such action in the premises as he
ought to or might take for the protection of his .interest. But
Straut, .being unable or unwilling to act, resigried his trust,
and the cogaplainant was, on September 18th, 1875, in accordance with the provisions of the deed of trust,. appointed
trustee in his stead, and on September 20th, 1875, Straut conveyed to the complainant, as such trustee, all the property,
rights, .and powers vested in him by the trust deed.
The prayer of the bill was as follows:
"That an account may be taken of the sum due for principal
and interest on said bonds, and of the sums due as liens upon said
road, and that the premises described in the deed of trust to

George Straut may, by order of this court, be sold for the payment of the same, and that your orator may have such other and
further and different relief as to equity may seem meet."
Answers were filed by the Illinois River Railroad Company,
the.Construction Company, and the Alton Railroad Company,
Corydon Beckwith, and Bradford Hancock, in -which they
took issue upon the avermeifts of the bill.
On January 13th, 1876, the Rolling Mill Company filed an
answer,, claiming to have a first lien -on the railroad and prop.
erty of the Illinois River Railroad Company, averring that, on
August 7th, 1874, it made a contract in writing, of that date,
with the Illinois River Railroad Company and the Cot~truction
Company for the sale and delivery, at certain prices therein
vo.-cix--45,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

specified, to said c6mpanies of 1,600 tons of steel and 2,500 tons
of iron rails, and certain named quantities of iron splices, spikes,
and bolts, all to be delivered by December 1st, 1874.
That contract- provided that for these materials sixty thousand dollars in cash should be paid, and, for the balance bf the
price, the companies purchasing the same should give notes,
payable in six, eight, ten and twelve months from their dates
respectively, executed by the .fllinois River Railroad Company
and guaranteed in full by the Construction Company and by
the stockholders of the Construction Company in proportion to
their stock, and, for the further security of said notes, there
should be pledged certain bonds of the Construction Company
tor au amount equal to the aggregate principal of said notes,
and 9cured by a deed of trust, made April 1st, 1874, by the
Illinois River Railroad Company and the Construction Company, on the property therein described, constituting the first
lien thereon.
It also cbntains this clause:
"And it is also agreed by said party of the second part that the
material so furnished by the said party of the first part shall
be used and laid upon the road and road-bed belonging to said
-Chicago and Illinois River Railroad Company, between the cities
of Joliet, in Will County, and Streator, in La Salle County, Illinois and that until the same be fully paid for, and all of the
notes given in payment therefor paid and cancelled, the said party
of the first part shall have a lien upon said material furnished
by it, and the use and possessibn of the same by. said party of
the second part, or either of the corporations constituting the
same, or the assignee or assigns of one or both of them shall
be the user and possession of said party of the'first part."
The answer of the Rolling. Mill Company further alleged that
the company had delivered large part of the rails, &c., under
said contract; that upon the delivery of the last lot, on or about
November 12th, 1874, the purchasing companies gate the
Rolling Mill Company notice not to deliver any more rails or
other material until the spring of 1875; that the Rolling Mill
Company were always ready. and willing to deliver the re-

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLING MILL CO.

707

Statement of Facts.

mainder of said rails and other material mentioned in said
contract, and that on May 7th, 1875, it gave notice to said purchasing companies that the residue of the rails, &c., were ready
for delivery, but the companies did not provide cars or vessels
for the transportation of said materials, and that, by the terms
of the contract, such notice was equivalent to a delivery thereof;
and that the Rolling Mill Company then and thereby complied
with its contract, and was entitled to the consideration therein
named.
It'also alleged that the Rolling Mill Company had received
in part payment of said consideration the sum of $95,000, and
no more, and that the purchasing companies had wholly
neglected and refused to pay the Rolling Mill Company any
further sums of money on the contract, and had neglected and
refused to deliver to it any of the notes or securities for deferred payments on the rails, &c., as provided in said contract,
although requested to do so; and that thereby the whole
amount of the purchase money for the rails, &c., had become
due and payable.
It further alleged that on May 10th, 1815, the Rolling Mill
Company, within the time prescribed by law, filed its bill in
the Circuit Court of Will County, Illinois, for the purpose of
enforcing its lien, under the statutes of Illinois, upon the
railroad and its appurtenances, and that the bill was still pending and undetermined.
The answer still further alleged that the Rolling Mill Company not only had a statutory lien upon all the materials furnished under said contract, but by the contract it had an express
contract lien upon the same, and that, by virtue of the contract
and the facts set forth, it had a lien' upon the Illinois River
Railroad and its appurtenances paramount to the lien of the
bondholders under said deed of trust and all other liens upon
the road.
On the same day on which its answer was filed the Rolling
Mill Company obtained leave to file, and did file, a cross-bill in
the cause, setting up the same matters stated in its answer, and
praying that upon the final hearing a decree might be entered
requiring payment of the amount due to it within a certain

OCTOBER TERMI,

1883. -

Statement of Facts.

time to be fixed by the decree, and that in default thereof the
railroad of the Illinois River Railroad Company and all its
appurtenances might be sold, and out of the proceeds its claim
might be paid in preference to the bondholders or any other
-persons.
" The answers to the cross-bill of the Rolling Mill Company
denied that said company had any lien for the materials furnished by it under said contract, either hy virtue of the contract
or the statutes of Illinois.
Afterwards, on May 31st, 1876, the master to whom the cause
had been referred, filed his report upon the claims of the Rolling Mill Company, with the testimony in support thereof, by
which he found due to the complainant in the cross-bill from
the Illinois River Railroad Company and the Construction
Company, for iron rails, &c.,, furnished under said contract,
with interest, &c., the sum of $186,783.49, and for which he
reported the Rolling Mill Company had. a lien binding on all
the defendants.
. On June 27th, 1876, the report of the master was referred
back to him by the following order, which was entitled both of
the original and the eoss-cause:
"By agreement of 'counsel the report of the master in said bill
and cross-bill is referred back to Henry W. Bishop, the master in
chancery of this court, with leave for the complainant in said bill
and the defendants to take further proofs within eight (8) days
from this date, and for the Union Rolling Mill to take further
proofs, if desired, within twelve (12) days from this date, said
master to report at the expiration of said twelve days."
On July 1st, 1876, Dumont, the complainant in the original
bill, filed his supplemental bill, in which he averred that, since
the filing of the original bill, coupons attached to the bonds
mentioned, falling due on March 1st, 1876, had become due,
and remained unpaid, although presented for payment; that
he had paid out certain sums for right of way, for laying down
side tracks and switches, and for taxes, and prayed that an account might be taken of the sums due on said coupons so fallen
due, and of the sinns paid out by complainant as aforesaid,

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLING MILL CO.

709

Statement of Facts.

and that the latter might be declared a lien on the mortgaged
premises.
On August 3d, 1876, the Illinois River Railroad Company
filed its plea to the original and supplemental bills, in which it
averred that at the date of the mortgage set forth in the original and supplemental bills, and at the beginning of this suit,
the said George Straut, the trustee named in the deed of mortgage, was and ever since had been and still continued to be a
citizen of the State of Illinois; that he was such citizen on September 13th, 1875, when he was applied to to foreclose the deed
of trust, and on September 13th, 1875, when he resigned said
trust; that from and after March 1st, 1875, until the commencement of this suit, all the defendants to the original and supplemental bills had been citizens of the State of Illinois, and had
continuously remained such citizens until the filing of the plea.
Wherefore, the said company averred that Dumont, as assignee
of said chose in action, namely, said deed of trust, had no
standing to prosecute the said suit, and set up the facts aforesaid in bar of the jurisdiction of the court.
No other plea, answer, or demurrer was ever filed to the
supplemental bill by any of the defendants in the cause, nor
was said plea to the original and supplemental bill ever replied
to or set down for argument.
On June 26th, 1877, one year after the report first filed by
him had been recommitted, the master, after re-examining the
former testimony, and taking additional testimony, covering
in all several hundred printed pages, and hearing the arguments of counsel, filed his second report, affirming his former
findings, and sustaining the allegations of the cross-bill.
On July 16th,. 1877, exceptions to this report were filed by
Dumont, the complainant in the original bill, the main ground
of the exceptions being that the master bad erred in reporting
that the Rolling Mfill Company was entitled to a first lien on
the mortgaged premises for the amount found to be due it.
( ctober 15th, 1877, the following order was entered:
"Now come the parties by their solicitors, and thereupon the
original, supplemental, and cross-bills were submitted to the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

on printed arguments to be furnished by Messrs. Beckwith and
Smith by October 26th inst., by Messrs. Cooper and Packard and
Henry Crawford .byOctober 30th inst., by George Campbell by
November 20th next, and by Messrs. Beckwith and Smith~in
reply by November 30th next."
On the 25th day of May, 1878, the Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Company, on leave of court, fMied an intervening petition in the cause, stating, among other things, that it
was the holder of some of the bonds secured by the trust deed
to George Str-ut, and that the complainant, John B. Dumont,
was threatening to foreclose the trust deed under the power of
sale contained therein, and prayea for an injunctioii to prevent
such sale, and, in accordance with this prayer, an order was
entered in the cause on the 25th of May, 1878, restraining Dumont from selling the property included in the trust deed until
the further order of the court.
Afteiwards, on January 4th, 1878, by agreement of the' parties by their solicitors, an order was entered setting aside the
order of October 15th, 1877, submitting the exceptions to the
master's report upon printed -briefs. June 5th, 18S8, the exceptions came up for hearing before the court. The hearing
continued until June 11th, 18Z8, -vhen the exceptions were
taken under advisement.
On December 16th, 1878, the court entered an interlocutory
decree upon.the report of the master and the exceptions thereto.
This decree was'entitled thus:
"John B. Dumont
V8.

Chicago and Illinois River Railroad'Company et al.
and
"Union Rolling Mill Company
vs.f
John B: Dumont et al.

in Chancery.
Original Bill.

Cross-bill.

By this interlocutory decree the court found due the Rolling
Mill Company $134,33.23 .on account of rails and materials

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLING MILL CO.

711

Statement of Facts.

used in the construction of the railroad and not paid for, and
that this sum constituted a lien upon the railroad of the Illinois
River Railroad Company, and "upon all its property, real, personal and mixed." The court further found that the Rolling
Mill Company had delivered to said Illinois River Railroad
Company and the Construction Company, iron rails, steel rails,
&c., mentioned in the contracts with said Rolling Mill Company to a large amount, which had been sold by the Illinois
River Railroad Company and the Construction Company to
the Alton Railroad Company, with full knowledge of the lien
of said Rolling Mill Company thereon. That the Alton Railroad Company had never specially paid for such material, but
had converted the same to its own use, and that such rails and
other materials were then of the value of $24,464.92. This
sum the court found the Rolling Mill Company was entitled to
have and recover from the Illinois River Railroad Company,
the Construction Company, and the Alton Railroad Company,
together with interest thereon, amounting at the date of the
decree to the sum of $29,796.30; and the court reserved for
further consideration all questions relative to the enforcement
of the lien declared for the sum of $134,733.23, and relative to
the sum of $29,796.30, found due from the Alton Railroad
Company, the Construction Company, and the Illinois River
Railroad Company.
Afterwards, on April 15th, 1879, the complainant in the
original bill moved for leave to dismiss the same at his own
costs, and on September 2d following, the consent of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company and other defendants to the dismissal of the original bill was filed in the cause.
On March 29th, 1880, John B. -Dumont filed his disclaimer to
further prosecute said cause, for the reason, as stated by him,
that his interest in the same had ceased and terminated by a
proceeding had in the Circuit Court of Will county, Illinois.
On the same day the court rendered a final decree in the cause,
which was entitled both of the original and cross-cause, and
which began as follows:
"This day came the several parties to the said cause and
cross-cause, by their respective solicitors." The decree then

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

proceeded to overrule the motion of the complainant Dumont
for leave to dismiss the bill, and ordered the payment of the
sum of $134,133.23 to the Rolling Mill Company, found due it by.
the interlocutory decree theretofore entered, with interest, and
in default thereof, that all the railroad, with its appurtenances,
of the Illinois River Railroad Company be sold free and clear
of all encumbrances in favor of any of the parties to the suit;
the pro-eeds to be applied, first, to the payment of costs;
second, to the payment of the sum so found due the Rolling
Mill Company; and the surplus, if any, to be paid to the clerk
of the court. The court further decreed that the Rolling Mill
Company have execution against the Alton Railroad Company,"
the Illinois River Railroad Company, and the Construction'
Company, for the sum of $29,796.30, together with interest
thereon from the 16th day of December, 1878, found due to it
by the interlocutory decree theretofore entered.
The Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, as an
intervenor in the cause, on June 10th, 1880, took and perfected
an appeal from the said decree, and on the next day Dumont
and the Alton Railroad Company appealed from the same
decree, the Illinois River Railroad Company, the Construction
Company, Hancock and Beckwith having refused to join in
said appeal.
By the appeal last mentioned the final decree of the circuit
court was brought.under review.
X. S. F Paokarcd and .fk. C. Beckowith for appellants.
.r.Zyman Ti-um&nd for appellee.
MR. JusTicE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants assign for error1. The refusal of the circuit court to dismiss the original bill
and the rendition of the final decree in favor of the Rolling
Mill Company and the ordering of the sale of the property df
the company to satisfy the same.
2. The finding that the Rolling Mill Company had a lien
upon the railroad and property of the Illinois River Railroad
Company for the amount found to be due it, and that such

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLING MILL CO.

713

Opinion of the Court.

lien was paramount to the lien of the bonds secured by the
trust deed to Straut.
3. The rendition of a personal decree against the Alton:Railroad Company for $29,796.30, and the awarding of execution thereon.
We shall consider these assignments of error in the order in
which they are stated.
The appellants contend that Dumont, the original complainant, had the right at any stage of the case to dismiss his bill,
and that its dismissal would carry with it the cross-bill, and
that having made the motion to dismiss; which was erroneously
overruled, all the subsequent proceedings and decrees are
erroneous.
It may be conceded that when an original bill is dismissed
before final hearing, a cross-bill filed by a defendant falls with
it. It may also be conceded that, as a general rule, a complainant in an original bill has the right at any time, upon payment of costs, to dismiss his bill. But this latter-rule is subject
to a distinct and well settled exception, namely, that after a
decree, whether final or interlocutory, has been made, by
which the rights of a party defendant have been adjudicated,
or such proceedings have been taken as entitle the defendant
to a decree, the complainant will not be allowed to dismiss his
bill without the consent of the defendant.
The rule is stated as follows in Daniell's Chancery Practice,
page 793, 5th Am.. Ed.:
"After a decree or decretal order the court will not allow a
plaintiff to dismiss his own bill, unless upon consent, for all parties
are interested in a decree, and -any party may take such steps as
he may be advised to have the effect of it."
The same writer, page

94, says, that,

"After a decree has been made, of such a kind that other persons besides the parties on record are interested in the prosecution
of it, neither' the plaintiff nor defendant, on the consent of the
other, can obtain an order for the dismissal of the bill."
The rule, as we have stated it, is sustained by many adjudi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

cated cases. It was laid down by the Lord Chancellor in
Cooper v. Lewis, 2 Phillips Oh. 181, as follows:
"The plaintiff is allowed to dismiss his bill on the assumption
that it leaves the defendant in the same position as he would have
stood if the suit had not been instituted ; it is not so where there
has been a proceeding in the cause which has given the defendant a right against the plaintiff."
In Bank v. Rose, 1 Rich. Eq. (S. C.) 294, it was said:
"But whenever, in the progress of a cause, the defendant entitles himself to a decree, either against a complainant or a co-defendant, and the dismissal would put him to the expense and
trouble of brifiging a new suit or making new proofs, such dismissal will not be permitted."
So in the case of Connor v. Drake, 1 Ohio St. 170, the
Supreme Court of Ohio, declared:
"The propriety of permitting a complainant to dismiss his bill
is a matter within the sound discretion of the court, which discretion is to be exercised with reference to the rights of both parties, as well the defendant as the complainant. After a defendant has been put to trouble in making his defence, if in the progress of the case rights have been manifested that he is entitled to
claim, and which are valuable to him, it would be unjust to deprive him of them merely because the complainant might come to
the conclusion that it would be for his interests to dismiss his bill.
Such a mode of proceeding would be trifling with the court as
well as with the rights of defendants. We think the court did
not err in its ruling in refusing to permit complainant to dismiss
his bill."

Chancellor Walworth in the case of Wall v. Crawford, 11
Paige, 4T2, laid down the rule in these words:
"Before any decree or decretal order has been made in a suit
in chancery, by Thich a defendant therein has acquired rights,
the complainant is at liberty to dismiss his bill upon payment of
costs; but after a decree has been made by which a defendant

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLlINGG MILL CO.

715.

Opinion of the Court.
has acquired rights, either as against a complainant or against a
co-defendant in the suit, the complainant's bill cannot be dismissed without destroying those rights. The complainant in such
a case cannot dismiss without the consent of all parties interested
in the decree, nor even with such consent, without a rehearing, or
upon a special order to be nade by the court."
See also Giuil/ertv. Hawle8, 1 Oh. Cas. 40; Bluck v. Colnagki,
9 Sim. Oh. 411; Lehkey v. Hogg, 11 Yes. Jir. 602; Booth v.
Leyca8ter, 1 Keen's Oh. 255; Biecoe v. Brett, 2 Vesey & B.
371; Col jiw v. Greave8; 5 Hare, 596; Gregory v. Spencer, 11
Beav. 143; Carringtonv. Holly, 1 Dick- 280; Anon., 11,Yes.
Jr. 169; Cozzen8 v. Sin8on, 5 R. I. 489; OdyN,v.-yle, '7R.
I. 461; The At/a8 Bank v. The .NahantBadn ,,23 Pick. 491;
Bethia v. .A'tay, Cheve's Eq. (S. 0.) 96; Sayer8 Appeal, 19
Penn. St.; Seymour v. Jerome, Walk Mich. Oh. 356.
The authorities cited sustain the refusal of the circuit court
to allow Dumont to dismiss his bill. The only really contested
issue in the case was between Dum.ont, representing the bondholders, and the Rolling Mi Company. The answers of all
the other defendants simply required proof of the averments of
the bill, neither admitting nor denying them. The issue raised
by the averments of the original bill and the answer of the
Rolling Mill Company, and by the cross-bill of the Rolling Mill
Company and the answer of Dumont, the complainant in the
original bill, was whether the Rolling Mill Company had a lien
upon the road and property of the Illinois River Railroad Company, and whether such lien was superior to that of the trust deed
executed to Straut, which the original bill was filed to foreclose. The issues thus raised involved the right of all the
parties to the suit. This issue was referred to a master to take
testimony and report. He fied a report which was entitled
both of the original and cross-cause. The record shows that,
"by agreement of counsel, the report of the master in said bill
and cross-bill was referred back to him," with leave to the parties
to take further proofs; that after taking a large mass of additional
evidence, covering several hundred printed pages, the master
reported that the Rolling Mill Company had a statutory lien

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cour.

upon the property covered by the trust deed executed to
Straut, and that the same was consequently the first lien upon
the property. Joint exceptions were filed to this report by
Dumont, the original complainant, and the Alton Railroad
Company and the Illinois River Railroad Company, all of
which were entitled both of the original and cross-cause. After
full argument, the court overruled the exceptions and rendered
an interlocutory decree %inboth the original and cross-cause,
establishing the lien of the Rolling Mill Company as claimed
in its answer to the original bill and in its cross-bill. After all
these proceedings, and when the controversy between the
parties was practically ended by the interlocutory decree of the
court, the motion to dismiss his original bill was made by Dumont, the complainant therein. The Rolling Mill Company insisted that if the original bill, carrying with it the cross-bill,
were dismissed, its claim would be barred by the statute of
limitations. It would be hard to conceive of a clearer case for
the application of the rule laid down by the authorities we
have cited. If the court under these circumstances, had
allowed the original bill to be dismissed without the consent of
the Rolling Mill Company, it would have inflicted a palpable
wrong on that company, and trifled with the administration of
justice.
The fact that the Rolling Mill Company had been compelled
to file a cross-bill in order to secure complete relief, only
strengthens the case against the dismissal of the original bill.
Several of the authorities cited to show that an original bill
cannot be dismissed after decree, apply to cases where a crossbill has been filed. Bank v. ]?ose, 1 Rich., and WVatt v. Crawford, 11 Paige, uU 8upra.
But counsel for appellants insist on the right of Dumont to
dismiss his original bill, because a supplemental bill had been
filed, to which, as well as to the original bill, the Illinois River
Railroad Company had filed a plea denying the jurisdiction of
the court; that the truth and sufficiency of this plea were admitted by the complainant, because he failed to reply thereto,
or set it down for argument by the next succeeding rule day,
or to obtain further time for that purpose from the court; and

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLING MMILL CO.

7t17

Opinion of the Court.

that therefore, under the 38th equity rule, the bill should hae
been dismissed "as of course" by the court.
It is to be observed that the plea referred to was filed by the
Illinois River Railroad Company, which is not a party to this
appeal, and which never asked the dismissal of the original
bill, because its plea had not been put at issue or set down for
argument. Under these circumstances it would be a strange
application of the 38th rule to hold that the complainant had
the right to dismiss his bill after the cause had been decided
against him.
It plainly appears from the record that after such plea was
filed by the Illinois Railroad Company no notice was taken
of it by any of the parties, the cause was allowed to proceed as
if it had never been filed, and was decided upon the issues raised
by the answer and cross-bill of the Rolling Mill Company.
The complainant now insists that his bill should have been dismissed, carrying with it the decree of the court in favor of the
Rolling Mill Company, the cross-bill, and the issues raised upon
it, and the great mass of testimony in the case, in the tadng of
which he had participated, because of his owii neglect to reply
to a plea filed by another party, which. itself never insisted
upon the dismissal of the bill by reason of that neglect. The
only party which could assign for error the refusal of the court
to dismiss the bill on account of the default of the original
complainant in not replying to or setting down the plea, is the
Illinois River Railroad Company, by which the plea was filed.
Bat it has never taken any exception to the refusal of the court
'to dismiss the bill, and is not a party to this appeal. For the
reasons stated we think the circuit court did right in overruling the application of Dumont for leave to dismiss his bill.
It is next insisted that the court erred in entering a final decree in favor of the Rolling Mfill Company and ordering a sale
of the property of the railroad company to satisfy the same.
The ground of this contention is that the final decree' was
rendered upon the cross-bill only,.and not upon the original bill,
and that if the cross-bill only were considered the court had no
jurisdiction thereof by reason of want of the requisite citizenship of the parties thereto, and that no decree could be ren-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

dered upon the cross-bill, except as consequent upon a decree in
the original cause. This objection proceeds upon an assumption
not sustained by the record. The cause was heard at the same
time upon both the original and cross-bills. The issue was
whether or not the lien of the Rolling Mill Company was prior
to the bonds secured by the deed of trust. This was raised
both by the original and cross-bills. The praycr of the original
bill was that an account might be taken of the sums due for
principal and interest on the bonds secured by the trust deed
to Straut, and of the sums due as liens upon the railroad, and
that it might be sold for the payment of the same. The issues
Taised by the original bill and the answer of the Rolling Mill
Company, and upon the cross-bill of the Rolling Mill Company,
were found by the court in favor of the company upon a hearing of both the original and cross-bills. The court decided in
favor of the lRolling Mill Company, granting it the relief prayed
in its cross-bill. It is true the complainant, in his original bill,
did not ask for a decree upon the final hearing in his favor.
But the cause having been heard on both the original and
cross-bills, he could not prevent the granting of the relief
prayed by the cross-bill, either by dismissing his bill or by
not asking for a decree.
The original bill was not dismissed, but is still pending, and the
complainant in that bill may still applyin behalf of the holders of
bonds secured by the trust deed to Straut for such part of the proceeds of the sale as the final decree orders to be paid to the clerk
of the court. Our conclusion is, therefore, that it was competent
for the court to redder the final decree made in this case.
The next question presented by the assignments of error is
whether the Rolling Mill Company had a lien upon the railroad and other property of the Illinois River Railroad Company superior to the deed of trust to Straut and the lease to
the Alton Railroad Company.
The matter of liens upon railroads is regulated by the Revised Statutes of Illinois, chapter 82, sec. 51, in force when
the contract of August 7th, 1874, for the delivery of iron rails
was made, and on March 1st, 1875, when the trust deed to
Straut was executed, which declares:

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLING MILL CO.

719

Opinion of the Court.

"That all persons who may have furnished, or who shall hereafter furnish, to any railroad corporation now existing, or hereafter
to be organized under the laws of this Stats, any fuel, ties, materials, supplies, or any other article or thing necessary for the
construction, maintenance, operation or repair of such roads, by
contract with said corporation, or who shall have done and performed, or shall hereafter do and perform, any work or labor for
such construction, maintenance, operation or repair by like contract, shall be entitled to be paid for the same as part of the current expenses of said road; and in order to secure the same shall
have a lien upon all the property, real, personal and mixed, of said
railroad corporation as against such railroad, and as against all
mortgages or other liens which shall accrue after the commencement of the delivery of said articles, or the commencement of
said work or labor, Provided suit shall be commenced within six
months after such contractor or laborer shall have completed his
contract with said railroad corporation, or after-such labor shall
have been performed or material furnished."
The Rolling Mill Company began to delivei to the Illinois
River Railroad Company on September 1st, 1874, iron rails and
other material to be used in the construction of its road, and continued such delivery until November 11th, 1874. The material
so furnished, of the value of $107,785.09, was used in the construction of the railroad. Within less than six months from
November 12th, 1874, the date when the last material was delivered, the Rolling Mill Company filed in the proper court its
bill of complaint to enforce its lien under said statute. The
lease of its road made by the Illin6is River Railroad Company
to the Alton Railroad Company, and its deed of trust to George.
Straut were not executed until March 1st, 1875, long after the
delivery of said material had been commenced. The lien of the
Rolling M Company under the statute would therefore seem
to be complete and superior to that of the tr-ist deed and lease.
The appellants, however, contend that the Rolling Mill Company waived its lien by the contract between it and the Construction Company and the Alton Railroad Company of August
7th, 1874, by which it was stipulated that the rails and other
materials furnished by the Rolling Mill Company should be used

OCTOBER TERM, 1880.
Opinion of the Court.

in the.construction of the railroad of the Illinois River Railroad
Company, and that until fully paid for the Rolling M Company should have a lien thereon, and that the possession thereof
by the railroad company should be the possession of the Rolling Mill Company.
We do not think that this stipulation shows any purpose on
the part of the Rolling Mill Company to waive its statutory
lien. When the contract was made, the railroad for which the
materials were to be furnished was in contemplation only.
The survey of its route had not been completed, nor had the
right of way been obtained. The evident purpose of the stipulation was to secure a specific lien on the materials furnished,
and to require them to be used in the construction of the railroad where they would be subject to the statutory lien, and
the facts of this case show that this was a wise precaution. The
contract, therefore, so far from showing a waiver of the statutory lien, shows a purpose on the part of the Rolling 2ill Company to retain it. The statutory lien was, therefore, not lost.
On this question the case of Clark v.. lore,'64 Iii. 279, is in
point. In that case the Supreme Court of Illinois says:
"It is also insisted that appellees waived their lien when they
sold the property, by reserving a lien upon it in a written contract ;
that they thereby received and held additional security, that operated to destroy any lien that would otherwise have attached. It is
true that where a laborer or materialman receives security collateral to the property improved, whether the security be personal
or a mortgage on or a pledge of other property br chose in action,
the law presumes that it was intended to waive or release the lien
upon the premises. In their effort to retain a lien on the machinery furnished by appellees, they took no collateral or independent
security. It was but a futile effort to retain a superior lien on
the property furnished over and above other lienholders. Had
these parties taken a mortgage on these lots and the building,
which the law would have adjudged void, would any one claim
that they could not assert their lien ? The lien'attaches to and encumbers the property to improve which the material is furnished,
and'the effort to acquire a more specific and exclusive lien thereon
in no wise manifests an intention to release the property from all

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLING MILL CO.

'21

Opinion of the Court.

liens and look to other security for payment, but it shows the
very opposite intention, an intention to hold, if possible, the
property liable for the payment of their claim."
This authority decides the question in hand against the appellants, and is entitled to great, if not conclusive, weight in
this court.
The appellants further contend that the Rolling AM Company, by the contract of August 7th, 1874, gave credit for the
materials to be purchased by it, which extended beyoad the
time within which suit would have to be brought to fix and enforce the statutory lien, and that this fact shows conclusively
that the statutory lien was waived.
It is well settled that an agreement for the extension of
credit by receiving a note of the party, or the independent security of a third person, falling due at a day beyond the period
within which the lien must be asserted, will be no waiver when
the agreement to (rive the note or security has not been performed by the promisor. To hold otherwise would be to say
that the builder or materiahnan must have intended to waive
his lien in the event of a refusal to comply with the agreement.
On the debtors refusal to keep the agreement, the builder or
materialnan ought not to be bound by it, but should be reinitted to his rights, independently of the contract. Tlie HTighzde',, 4 Blatch. 55.
It is clear from the terms of the contract that the Polling
[ill Company never agreed to extend credit for the materials
furnished unless notes were given therefor, with the stockholders of the Construction Company as indorsers, and with
the bonds of the Construction Company secured by the deed of
trust to Norton as collateral security. The contract to give
credit was clearly conditioned upon the delivery of the notes
and bonds. It would be absurd to hold that, on the failure to
deliver them, the Rolling M[ill Company had nothing to show
for its iron rails and other materials, but the promise of
an insolvent railroad company and an insolvent construction
company to deliver the notes and bonds. They were as
impotent to deliver the n6tes and bonds as they wore to
voL. cix-46.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

pay cash. Such could not have been the intention of the
parties to the contract. On the failure of the companies to
deliver the notes and bonds according to the contract, the
Rolling -ifill Company was entitled to immediate payment and
to its statutory lien to secure it, because the credit was conditioned upon the giving of security, and the security was not
given.. It has been so held by the Supreme Court of Illinois in
the case of Gardner v. Hall, 29 Ill. 277. Gardner fied his
petition to enforce a mechanics' lien on a contract for doing
certain work. The contract provided that payment of a certain
instalment due upon a day named should be postponed for a
period extending more than a year after the'completion of the
work in case a mortgage on the premises should be given to
secure said instalment. The petition was demurred to, and
the demurrer was sustained. On appeal this decree was reversed, and the supreme court said:
"An agreement was made to give a mortgage which would
have destroyed the lien, but no mortgage was given, and hence
the lien remained. So was an agreement made to extend the
time of payment which would destroy the lien. But the mortgage was not executed, hence the time was never extended and
the lien never waived thereby." See also 27e Higdander, 4
Blatchf. ubi &upra.
We are of opinion, therefore, that as the purchasing companies did not perform the condition upon which credit was to
be given, no credit at all was given, much less a credit extending beyond the time for the enforcement of the statutory lien.
It follows from these views that the contention of appellant
that the suit begun May 10th, 1875, by the Rolling Mill Company to fix and foreclose its statutory lien, was brought before
the cause of action accrued, and cannot, therefore, be treated as
a compliance with the statute, cannot be sustained, for at that
date the debt was due and -thelien in force.
If our opinion the Rolling Mill Company had, under the
statutes of Illinois, a lien upon the railroad and its appurtenances of the Illinois River Railroad Company for the value of
the materials furnished by it and used in the construction of

C. & A. R.R. CO. v. UNION ROLLING MILL CO.

723

Opinion of the Court.

the railroad, superior to the lien of the trust deed executed to
George Straut on March 1st, 1875, and to the lease of said rail-

road executed on the same day to the Chicago & Alton Railroad Company, and that the decree of the circuit court ordering the railroad to be sold to pay the sum due for said materials
so used was just and right.
It is, lastly, assigned for error, that the circuit court rendered
a personal decree against the Alton Railroad Company in favor
of the Rolling Kill Company, and awarded execution there6n.
The personal decree complained of was for $29,796.3Q. This
sum was the value, with interest, of certain iron rails, &c., sold
and delivered by the Rolling Mill Company to the Illinois
River Railroad Company'and the Construction Company, under
the contract of August 7th, 1874, which were not used in the
construction of the railroad, but were sold by the purchasing
companies to the Alton Railroad Company, and by it converted
to its own use.
The circuit court found that the Rolling Mill Cbmpany had
a lien upon said materials; that the Alton Railroad Company
bought said materials with notice thereof, and had never paid
for the same, and had alleged, as a reason for its failure to pay,
the want of title in the companies from which it purchased.
The facts so found are clearly shown by the record, and do
not seem to be disputed. The Alton Railroad Company, however, insists that there was no lien on said materials under the
contract of August 7th, 1874, because the contract was not
acknowledged and recorded as required by the law of Illinois
relating to chattel mortgages.
That act provided as follows:
"That no mortgage, trust deed, or other conveyance of personal property, having the -effect of a mortgage or lien upon such
property, shall be valid as against the rights and interests of any
third person, unless possession thereof shall be .delivered to and
remain with the grantee, or the instrument shall provide for the
possession of the property to remain with the grantor, and the
instrument is acknowledged and recorded as hereinafter directed;
and every such instrument shall, for the purposes of this act, be

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

deemed a chattel mortgage."
tion 1.

Rev. Stat. of Ill., chap. 95, sec-

The theory of the appellants is that the Illinois River Railroad Company and the Construction Company, being the
owners by purchase of the iron rails, retained possession of
the same, and by the contract of August 7th, 1874, gave to
the Rolling Mill Company a chattel mortgage thei'eon, which
was never acknowledged and recorded, and that consequently
the lien fails. But the facts of the case are not in accord with
this theory., When the contract referred to was made the iron
rails were not the property of the purchasing companies. It
does not appear that the rails were at that time in existence,
and they were certainly not in possession of the purchasing
companies. So that this is not the case contemplated by the
Illinois statute, which clearly refers to a mortgage on personal
property of which the mortgagor is owner and of which he is
in possession and of which he ishes to retain possession. The
case is that of the owner, namely, the Rolling AM Company,
of personal property, who sells it and delivers the physical possession to its vendee and by the bill of sale retains a contract
lien thereon. In such a case it is clear that the original vendor
can enforce the lien against a subsequent purchaser who had
actual notice of the lien and had not paid for the property, and
refused to pay for it on the ground that the first vendee from
whom he bought had no title thereto. The chattel mortgage
law above quoted can have no reference to such a case. Such
an application of it would be unjust, inequitable, and unreasonable. The law has never been so applied by the courts of
Illinois.
We find no error in the proceedings and decrees of the circuit court. They are, therefore,
limed.
Case N7o. 172. T7e MAfassachusetts .1utual Life Insurance
.Company v. The Union Bolling .Mill Company is an appeal
from the same decree affirmed in the preceding case.
The Insurance Company by leave filed an intervening petition,
claiming to be the owner of forty-five of the bonds secured by
the trust deed to George Straut. It has never proved its posses-

HOWARD v. CARUSI.
Statement of Facts.

sion or ownership of any of said bonds either before the master
or the court. If it had it would be in the same position as any
other holder of said bonds, all of whom, so far as the questions
raised by this appeal are concerned, were represented by Dumont,
the complainant in the original bill. These questions have all
been decided in tho preceding case.
In this case also the decree appealed from must therefore be
.Affirmed.

HOWARD v. CARUSI and Another.
A.PPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMIBIA.
Argued December 10th, 11th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Ddvise-Power-Trust.
1. A devise of real estate and bequest of personal property "to my brother
S. C. to be held, used, and enjoyed by him, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns forever, with the hope and trust, however, that he
will not diminish the same to a greater extent than may be necessary for
his comfortable support and maintenance, and that, at his death, the
same, or so much thereof as he shall not have disposed of by devise or
sale, shall descend to my three beloved nieces P. E. C., G. E. C., and
I. E. C., is, as to real estate, a devise to S. C. in fee simple, with no
limitations over ; and creates no trust, executory or otherwise.
2. An execution of a power to name beneficiaries to take under a deed which
designates A., his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns forever,
with the hope and trust that he will not diminish the same, and a provision that at his death so much thereof as he shall not have disposed
of by devise or sale shall descend to B., vests the fee simple absolute in
A. with no remainder to B.

The pleadings and evidence in this case disclose the following facts: On March 18th, 1872, Lewis Carusi, a bachelor
about 78 years of age, and a citizen of the city of Washington,
in the District of Columbia, being seized in fee of certain real
estate in said city, executed his last will and testament. In
the first item of the will he directed his just debts and funeral
expenses to be paid out of his personal estate. The second
item of the will was as follows:

