OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for the Appellant.

Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. In re Angier, 10 Amer. Law Reg. (N. S.) 190; S. C.
-4-Bankr. Reg. 619.
eJudgmme aflned.

LA ER v. DEiNETT & Another.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIR6UIT

COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR,

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argned October 9th, 1883.-Decided October 29th, 1883.

Asignment-Lcese --

ista-ce-Patent.

After many conversations, and after a draft agreement had been made, A, in
1870, in writing, granted to B a license to make, use, and sell, and vend to
others to sell, an invention in defined districts. In 1873 B discovered that
the agreement gave him no exclusive rights, which it was the purpose of
both parties to have done. He notified A, and A at once offered to grant
such right for the original consideration. In November, 1873, B refused to
accept a new agreement, and took steps to terminate the existing" one. A
thereupon sued B for royalties claimed to be earned under it. B filed a bill
in equity, claiming that there was a mistake in the agreement, and praying
to have!it cancelled and A restrained from prosecuting an action under it:
Held, That there was no mistake between the parties as to the agreement
madd; that the minds of the parties met, and an agreement was made,
although the legal effect of it was different from what was intended ; that
A was not in.default ; and there was no ground for the relief prayed for.

Suit in equity to have an agreement respecting the transfer
of an interest under a patent set aside and cancelled, as made
under a mistake, and all suits at. law thereon stayed and enjoined. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3fr. JoAn F. Storft for the appellant.
1. The contract failed to express the intent of the parties.
Where a mistake occurs as to the subject matter of the contract, there is no assent, and of course no contract. I Story on
Contracts, see. 538; 2 Chitty on Contracts (Am. ed.), 1089-90.
Where there is a mutual mistake as to a fact forming the basis

LAVER v. DENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

of a contract, the contract will be void, although no fraud be
practised. 1 Story on Contracts, sec. 539, and cases cited; 1
Parsons on Contracts,.*p. 475. The mistake here is one of fact
rather than of law. 1 Story Eq. Juri., sees. 152, 153, 164 f.
Where the instrument, through the fault of the scrivener or
otherwise, fails to state, the full terms of the agreement or
understanding of the parties, the mistake is one of fact, which
equity will relieve against. Iunt v. Rousmanier,1 Peters, 1,
;12; Har ford v. Salabary Ore Co., 41 Conn. 113, 133; Bios8a
2m. Co., 4 Daly, 246; 1 Adams Equity (Am.
v. PacijFc -.
notes), p. 169. In this case the fault 6f the scrivener must
be imputed to the appellees who empl6yed him. But were the
mistake one of law, equity would afford relief. Hunt v. Roumannier, 8 Wheat. at p. 211; Wh7eeer v. Smith, 9 How. 55,
81 ;
hele'8 Affeal, 'T0 Penn. St. 410 ; Hearst v. Pr'yol, 44
Cal. 230, 235; 1 Story Eq. Juri., sees. 119 et 8eg., 130, 134,
138. We find no case which we think precisely in point, and
are unwilling, where the efect of the instrument is acknowledged to have been entirely misunderstood by both parties, to
say that a court of equity is incapable of affording relief. Ch.
J. Marshall in Hunt v. Rouamanier,8 Wheat. at p. 216.
.Yr.
B.1. . Houghton for the appellees.
MR. JUSTion. MA-rnuws delivered the opinion of the court.
This appeal is from a decree dismissing the complainant's bill,
and the record discloses the following as the facts material to
the determination of the controversy.
The appellees, in 1870, being British subjects,, were owners
of letters patent of the United States, bearing date January 4th,
1870, granted to one Dennett, for the term of seventeen years
from August 13th, 1863, for an improvement in the construction
of concrete arches for building. On November 2d, 1870, they
entered into a written contract with the appellant, an architect,'
then residing in Albany, N. Y., but at the time of filing this
bill a citizen of dalifornia. By this contract the appellees
granted to the appellant, his executors, administrators, and assigns, during the residue of the unexpired term of the letters

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
patent, "full and free liberty, license, and authority to make,
use, and sell, or vend to others to be sold, the said invention
within the divisions of the United States, as thereinafter specified, or one or more of them, in the manner and according to
the provisions and agreements thereinafter contained and upon
the payment of the sums of money as therein provided, and not
otherwise." For the puposes of.the license the territory of the
United States was divide into four dist nict, named A, B, C,
and D respectively, and a royalty of ten shillings sterling per
square of one hundred square feet was to be paid for all work
acthally done under thepatent, and which, from certain specified dates, it was agreed should amount to an annual minimum
sum of £500, and not to be payable in excess of an annual maximum sum of £1,000 in each of such divisions.
It was also stipulated that the appellant might surrender the
license at any time upon giving six months' notice, and that the
appellees might revoke it upon any default of the appellant
after thirty days' notice.
It appears that this contract was entered into after many
conversation between the parties, and after a draft agreement
had been prepared and submitted to the appellant for examination. Upon his suggestion it was amended and finally executed.
Various unsuccessful efforts appear to have been made by
the appellant while at Albany, and after his removal to San
Francisco, and also by one Fuller, who acted as his agent at
Albany, to introduce the patent; and some correspondence
tbok place between the parties in regard to its progress and
prospects..
This correspondence, as well as the negotiations which led
to the execution of the contract, was conducted on the part of
the appellees by Frederick Ingle; and it was to him that the
following letter was addressed by the appellant:

"SAx Fpwcisco, 26th April, 1873.
"FnEDrIcK IIGLE,

Esq.,

"5 Whitehall, London, -England.
"D AR SIB : It now turns out, just as Mr. Fuller and myself

LAVER v. DENNETT.

93

Opinion of the Court.
are about to close negotiations for the sale of your patent right,
that I have no power to sell. Will you, therefore, send me the
proper papers from your firm, stating that you will not .grant
licenses to any one else7in the United States ? I enclose you an
eminent legal opinion thereon. Mr. Fuller had arranged for the
sale of Massachusetts, which includes Boston ; but we wait for
your proper authority, which must be exclusive; or no value can
be attached t5 the license I hold, Of course I am aware of the
understanding which I have stated your firm would not go back
on, but then the parties purchasing hold that it is not exclusive.
In like manner I am unable to close with parties here for section
D. I have had so nuch trouble with this matter, and now
that it appeared to be in a good way to be productive of profit
this annoyance arose. You can, however, remedy it in the way
prescribed. Yours very truly,
"AuGUSTus

LAvER."

"P. S.-Send the papers to Mr. Fuller, at Albany, and- then he
"A. L."
will send me duplicates.
This letter seems to have been received by Ingle, and in reply
he sent by cable the following:
"XAay 6, 1873.

"FuLER, Architect, Albany, New York:
"Dennett will alter agreement, giving Laver exclusive right.
"ROBERT

DENIiETT & Co."

Fuller had evidently' written a letter to Ingle, to tle same
effect, about the same time, for, although it is not contained in
the record, Ingle's reply to it, written the day he sent the cable
message, was produced and read in evidence. In this letter,
dated May 5th, 1873, he says, referring to the objection to the
terms of the license, "there is no objection on our part to alter
it in any way to suit the requirements of the case." He adds:
"You will bear in 'mind that this lease was granted to Mr.
Laver to pay as an annual royalty. If it had been proposed then
to purchase oat and out, I dare sgy the terms to the exclusive
right would have been more precise ; at any rate, our intention
was for Mr. Laver to have the exclusive right (in all our negotia-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

tions), and when the document was signed we looked uipon it as
so settled, unless he elected to throw it up before certain dates
for the respective sections as specified in the agreement. He had
the document to examine before signing it, and could have made
th~e objection then. At any rate you will, I think, give us credit
for having faithfully carried out both the letter and spirit of the
agreement. We have had many applications from parties for permission to work the patent in the United States since October,
187o, the date of our agreement, bitt have had to reply in each
case that our arrangements as to licensing were made . ..
"I shall wr ite to our solicitor, Mr. Van Santvoord & Hauff, of
Times Building, Park Row, New York, and instruct him to get
whatever you require with regard to the specification. I don't
know in what respect it is incomplete. The agreement can be
altered to give any parties who propose to purchase the most
absolute rights, on payment of the purchase money of section
He then proceeds, in answer he says to a request to that
effect, to give the prices for each division, upon an out and out
purchase of a gross sum; and referring to Layer's statement,
that Fuller was on the point of completing the negotiations for
division , he says:
"To facilitate completion of the matter, had you not better
write to or see Mr. Van Santvoord,whom we will instruct to give
you as much assistance as he can. We could not, of course,
undertake any litigation in respect of infringements, after we
had disposed of our rights for a fixed sum."
He says, further:
"Our wishes have always been to give him exclusive rights, and
I thought that the agreement expressed as much before you raised
the question. At any rate we are willing to alter it to facilitate
your negotiations. The question is, how is it to be done?
" One plan is for us to send power of attorney out to Mr. Van
Santvoord, and tell him to alter the agreement and sign for us.
Another, and I think a preferable plan, is to write to him to prepare two fresh copies of agreement, distinctly giving Laver exclusive rights, and referring to the old agreement, which will be
thereby cancelled. He will then let you see the alterations. One

LAVER v. DENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

copy must be sent to Laver for signature, and another to us, and
on the return you and Van Santvoord can exchange them. You
must clearly understand, however, that we shall not consent to
any other alterations, or-to introduce any fresh clauses."
On May 9th, 1873, Ingle wrote to the appellant as follows:
"DEAR SnR: Yours of 29th March came duly to hand, .wth
enclosures, and I delayed answering it for a week or two, as I
was expecting to hear from Mr. Fuller. I have now heard from
him, and you no doubt know to what effect.
"He complains of the agreement not giving you exclusive
rights. I think it expressed enough for the purpose contemplated
at the time, and you were satisfied with it. At any rate, we intended to give you exclusive rights, and have in all good faith
acted up to that intention, inasmuch as we have refused many
offers of agency since October, 1870, the date of our agreement
with you. I suppose Mr. Fuller will send you the letter I wrote
him in reply; at any rate, I will write him by this post a line requesting him to do so ; then you will see exactly what I propose
to do. I may say that I have also by this post instructed Mr.
Van Santvoord, our solicitor in New York, to prepare full agreements, giving you exclusive rights, and send them to each of us
to be re-signed and exchanged ; when this is done they will supersede the others, and I hope will be sufficient for Mr. Fuller's purpose.
"Speaking generally, our view with regard to this matter is
this (I mean Dennett's and my own), that we gave a liberal
margin of time to make preliminary arrangements, and asked for
only a moderate royalty on each section. You had the option of
holding or abandoning up to certain dates. If you had decided
to surrender, we should have been losers of two years of valuable
time, and should have had all our work to begin over again. As
you elected to keep the patent right, you could hardly expect us
to forego the just claims for which we stipulated, after such very
liberal reservations in your favor. We do not suppose for a moment that you expect this. We do not wish to press you hardly
in the matter, but it is really time now that some tangible return
was made to us ; of course if the section B is sold at once, and
the money paid over, as we hope it will be, we forego any claim
for royalties already due on that section."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

It is also shown that the appellees, on May 10th, 1873, wrote
to their solicitors in New York, giving instructions in reference
to drawing up a fresh agreement, giving the appellant the exclusive rights which he required; but that neither the appellant
nor Fuller, his agent, communicated with the solicitors on the
subject. It was not until November 3d, 1873, that appellant
wrote to Ingle refusing to sign any new agreement, and claiming that the defect in the original agreement had resulted in
the loss of the sale of the patent for Massachusetts for the price
of $30,000, and intimating that in consequence thereof, the
appellant was entitled to treat the whole matter as at an end.
On October 12th, 1874, the appellees, having in the meantime,
by further correspondence, insisted upon their rights under the
contract, and demanded -payment of the royalties which had
accrued, brought an action in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California against the appellant to
recover the amount due on account thereof. And on September 3d, 1875, the appellant filed this bill in equity in the same
court, in which it was claimed that by reason of the mistake in
omitting from the contract a grant of the exclusive right to
the appellant to use and sell the said invention under the said
patent, the said indenture was not the agreement of the appellant, and that in November, 1873, because of said defect, he
had surrendered said invention and indenture, and all his rights
thereto and thereunder, to the appellees. The bill prayed that
the indenture be ordered to be cancelled, as executed by mistake,
and that the appellees be perpetually restrained and enjoined
from the prosecution of the action at law upon it.
The chief, if not the only instance, in which, it is alleged,
the defect in' the license actually operated to the injury of the
appellant, is the loss of the sale of the patent for the New England States; and as to that, the proof wholly fails. The only
witness examined on the subject is the appellant himself, who
]1new nothing of it, except as he learned it from Fuller, his
agent; nd his evidence, being hearsay, cannot be regarded.
The parties with whom the negotiations took place, and who,
it is said, refused to proceed after discovering the defect in the
license, are not examined nor even named. Fuller, the agent

LAVER v. DENNETT.
Opinion of the Court.

of the appellant, who personally conducted the negotiation, is
not examined as a witness at all; and in his letter to Ingle of
June 23d, 187 3, gives an entirely different account of the reasons
for the loss of the sale. He there says:
" Your decision not to protect the patent renders it valueless,
even if it could not be infringed. The duration of the patent is

so short no parties would dream of paying large sums for it.
Acting as :fr. Layer's attorney, I did the best I could to dispose
of it for New England States.
the patent can be extended."

That is nowo abandonedunless

There is no proof of fraud or misrepresentation on the part
of the appellees, -and all charges to that effect in the bill, are
substantially withdrawn by the appellant inhis testimony.
It is claimed, however, on the part of the appellant, that he
has a strict right in equity to the relief prayed for in his bill, on
the ground that no contract was ever in fact entered into, the
minds of the parties never having met upon the saFne terms.
But there is no foundation for such a contention. The minds
of the parties did meet. There was in fact an actual agreement, the terms of which were perfectly well understood by
both parties. They acted upon that understanding from the
time the instrument was executed; and when the appellant
first discovered that it did not have the legal effect intended,
and gave notice to the appellees accordingly, there was no controversy between them on the subject. The common intention
was at once admitted, and the necessary correction promptly
offered. There was, no doubt, a mistake, but it was in the
instrument which undertook to express the agreement, and not
in the agreement itself. It did iot relate to any matter of
fact which was the basis of the contract, an error in regard to
which would be fundamental, and therefore fatal, but affected
only the document which professed to express, but did so incorrectly, the actual intention of both parties.
It is equally wide of the mark to say, as it was argued, that
the contract has failed by reason of the failure of the consideration. The appellant cannot say,-that he did not acquire something by reason of the license, although his right was not, as
VOL. cix-7

9S

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court:

it was, fhtended to be, bxclusive. But so far as appears in the
case, he-had the same benefits and advantages he would have
enjoyed if the instrument had contained the exclusive grant it
was supposed to secure. For the parties on both sides acted
upon that construction, and, as we have already shown, no
actual loss is proven to have arisen to the appellant by virtue
6f the defective assurance.
That the instrument imperfectly expressed the agreement of
the parties was not the exclusive fault of the appellees. It was
the duty of the appellant to have discovered the error before
executing the contract. lie did not, in fact, find it out until
after two years from its date; and then, applying for its correction, failed to avail himself of the offer of the appellees,
Vror.ptly made, in response to his demand to execute a- corrected qgteement.
- The.niy equity which the appellant could claim was to have
the -mutualmistake in the language of the instrument corrected,
ujitil some, default had occurred on the part of the appellees.
.But-they were in no default. They offered to make the correctioir as soon as they had notice of the mistake; but the
appellant declined to accept it. After the further lapse of
more than six months, he insisted on his right to put an end to
the agreement -itself. This he was in no position to do. His
dlay to assert such a claim, if his right had been otherwise
bettef'-founded, constituted such laches as would, at least,
greatly weaken his title to relief, if it did not. amount to a bar;
and coupled with the loss to the appellees of the value of their
own rights under the patent, which cannot be restored, would
make it inequitable, as against them, to absolve the appellant
from the legal obligation of his contract.
We see no ground in the facts of the case for the application
of the principles and authorities invoked by the appellant as a
warrant to grant him the relief far which his bill prays.
deee s accordingly affirmed.
:

