OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

Hozey v. Buchanan, 16 Pet. 215,, which, it is admitted, is
not reconcilable with the conclusion insisted upon, was made
without the poinf having been or considered as to the law of
Louisana, under which the case arose.
But it is entirely immaterial, in our view of the case, What
the law of Louisiana upon the point is, for the reason that that
law has no application to it. The question relates, not to any
&Wof that State, but to a law of the United States, and is,
whether under the bankrupt act of 1867, the District Court of
the United States, sitting in bankruptcy, has jurisdiction to
order the seizure and detention of goods, the property of the
bankrupt, although in possession of another under claim of
title, ard whether, in a subsequent action against the officer
for obedience to such an order, he may justify the seizure by
proof that the title to the property was, at the time, in the
bankrupt.
This was the very point decided by this court in Sha7pe v.
Doyke, 1102 U. S. 686, a reference to which makes it unnecessary
to repeat the grounds of the conclusion, that in such a case the
defence here allowed, if established, should prevail.
All the other exceptions taken during the trial were directed
to the admission of testimony in support of this defence, and
are disposed of when the defence itself is adjudged to be valid.
There is, therefore, no error in the record, and
The judgment i.8 a~ffrmed.

SMITH and Another v. McNEAL and Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TH

UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued November 15th, 18th, 1883.-Decide

November 26th, 1883,

Jstopel-L2kitations--Stautesof Tennessee.
A suit was begun, within the seven years prescribed by the Statute of Limitation of tlie Code of Tennessee, in the Circuit Court of the United States
forithe Western District of Tennessee, for'the recovery of land, which was

SMITH v. McNEAL.
Statement of Facts.
dismissed for want of jurisdiction, by reason of the omission in the pleadings of a jurisdictional fact which actually existed. Within one year
thereafter the plaintiff in the former suit commenced another suit in the
same court against the same parties, to recover the same land, and set up
the jurisdictional fact: Held,
1. That, although the second suit was begun more than seven years after the
cause of action arose, it was within the saving clause of article 2755 of
the Code of Tennessee, providing that: "If the action is commenced
within the time limited, but the judgment or decree is rendered against
the plaintiff and upon any ground not concluding his right of action, or
where the judgment or decree is rendered against the plaintiff and is
arrested or reversed on appeal, the plaintiff, or his reuresentatives and
privies, as the case may be, may from time to time commence a new
action within one year after the reversal or arrest."
2. The doctrine that a dismissal of a suit for want of jurisdiction is no bar to
a second suit for the same cause of action reaffirmed and the aulhorites
cited.

December 31st, 1873, the plaintiffs in error brought suit
against defendants in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Tennessee to recover forty acres of
land. The declaration described the land and averred that the
plaintiffs were possessed thereof, claimrng in fee through a certificate of the United States district tax commissioners, naming
them, under an act of Congress, entitled "An Act for the collection of taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United
States and for other purposes,", and the acts amending the same
of January 1st, 1865, and that after such possession accrued the
defendants, on December 1st, 1865, entered upon the premises
and unlawfully withhold and detain the same, etc.
Two of the defendants, McNeal and Caruthers, demurred to
the declaration, first, because it did not sufficiently describe the
property sought to be recovered; and, second, because it did
not show that the plaintiffs were not citizens of the State of
Tennessee so as to give the court jurisdiction of the cause.
On February 24th, 187T7, the court sustained the demurrer,
upon the ground that it had "no jurisdiction of the cause of
action in plaintiffs' declaration alleged and set forth," and dismissed the suit.
Afterwards, on October 20th, 181, the plaintiffs in error
brought the present suit against the same defendants in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

same court to recover the same tract of land. The declaration
in this cause was identict with that in the former action, except that-n this case the following averment was added:
"Defendants do not claim under, but adverseiy to, and deny the
vali(ity of plaintiffs' claim of .title unIler the aforesaid acts-of Con-

gress, and the validity of plaintiffs' claim of title under the aforesaid acts of Congress is the only question in controversy between
the plaintiffs and defendants."
The defendants pleaded the seven years' limitation prescribed
by the satute of Tennessee, to which the plaintiffs pleaded the
following replication:
"Now come the plaintiffs, by attorneys, and as to defendants'
plea herein pleaded say, that on the 31st of December, 1873, and
within seven years from the time the plaintiffs' cause of action accrued, the plaintiffs brought suit against defendants in this court
to recover possession of the same premises whereof plaintiffs here
now seek to recover possession ; and the said suit was commenced
upon the same cause of action that the plaintiffs' now writ and action are founded. That the said action, so commenced as aforesaid, was duly prosecuted by plaintiffs until the 1st of -September,
1877, upon which.,day a judgment (which said judgmentrcmaining
of record in this court is referred to) was therein rendered by said
circuit court upon a ground not concluding their said right of action. The record of said former suit remains in this court, and

plaintiffs heje make profert of the same ; all of which plaintiffs are
willing to certify."
The defendants demurred to this replication on two grounds:
first, because it appeared by the judgment referred to and made
a part of the replication, that said judgment was upon the
merits; and, second, because it appeared from the record of
said former suit that the court in which it was brought had no
jurisdiction thereof, and said suit was dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
The cause was heard upon this demurrer, which the court
sustained, and entered judgment dismissing plaintiffs' suit.
To reverse that judgment this writ of error was brought.

SMITH v. McNEAL.

'429

Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. Samuel iSelaargerfor plaintiffs in error.
-3Tr. P. Phillip8 for defendants in error.

Mfn. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of -the court.
The question presented by the record is the sufficiency of the
plaintiffs' replication to the defendants' plea of the seven years'
statute of limitation.
The limitation relied on by defendants is that prescribed by
article 2765 of the Code of'Tennessee, which is as follows:
"No person, or any one claiming under him, shall have any
action, either at law- or in equity, for any lands, etc., but within

seven years after the right of action has accrued."
The plaintiffs in error contend that their present action is
saved from the bar of this statute by the provision of article
2755 of the Code, which is as follows:
"If the action is commenced within the time limited, but the
judgment or decree is rendered against the plaintiff upon any
ground not concluding his right of action, or when the judgment
or decree is rendered in favor of the plaintiff and is arrested or reversed on appeal, the plaintiff or his representatives or privies may
commence a new action within one year after the reversal or
arrest."
The question of law upon which -the parties are at issue, is
whether the judgment rendered February 24th, 177, by which
the suit begun December 31st, 1873, was dismissod, the dismissal
being on the ground that the court had' no jurisdiction of the
cause of action set out in the declaration, falls within the saving
of this section as being rendered on a. ground not concluding
the plaintiffs' right of action.
It is well settled that the judgment of a court dismissing a
suit for want of jurisdiction does not conclude the plaintiffs'
right of action.
In Waldn. v. Bodley, 14 Pet. 156, it was said by this court:
"A decree dismissing a bill generally may be set set up in bar
of a second bill having the same object in view, but when the bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

has been dismissed on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction, which shows that the merits were not heard, the dismissal is
not a bar to the second suit."
So in the case of .- ugheg v. United tates, 4 Wall. 232, thi
court declared:
"In order that a judgment may constitute a bar to another suit
it must be rendered in a proceeding between the same parties or
their privies, and the point of controversy must be the same in
both cases, and must be determined on its merits. If the first
suit was dismissed for defect of pleadings or parties, or a misconception of the form of proceeding, or the want of jurisdiction, or
was disposed of on any ground which did not go to the merits of
the action, the judgment rendered will prove no bar to another
suit." See also Greenleaf's Evidence, sections 529, 530, and cases
there cited.
The cases would seem to settle the question against defendants in error, for they decide that the dismissal of a suit for
want of jurisdiction is upon a ground not concluding the right
of action. Defendants in error, however, contend that the
bringing of a suit in a court having no jurisdiction thereof was
gross negligence, and that the current of authority is against
extending the terms of the statute to let in one guilty of it.
Cases might be supposed, perhaps, where the want of jurisdiction in the court was so clear that the bringing of a suit
therein would show such gross negligence and indifference as to
cut the party off from the benefit of the saving statute, as if an
action of ejectment should be brought in a court of admiralty,
or a bit in equity should be filed before a justice of the peace.
Br,t te suit between these parties, which was begun December 3 'st, 1873, is far from being such a case. There is nothing
in the record to show that it was dismissed for any inherent
want of jurisdiction in the court in which it was brought,
We think that on December 31st, 1873, when said first suit
was brought, the circuit courts of the United States, under the
second section of the act of Congress of Mfarch 2d, 1883, entitled an act further to provide for the collection of duties on
imports, 4 Stat. 632, had jurisdiction of a suit brought to re-

S3iT=

v. McNEAL.

Opinion of the Court.

cover lands purchased at a sale for taxes made under authority
of the act of June 7th, 1862, for the collection of taxes in insurrectionary districts, where the title so derived was disputed by
defendants. The defect was in the declaration, which, although
it averred that plaintiffs claimed title under the revenue laws
of the United States, did not aver that. their title in that respect was disputed by defendants. Had such an averment
been made, the jurisdiction of the court would have appeared
on the face of the declaration. . ,2arte Smith, 94 1U. S. 455.
The first suit was therefore dismissed, because the declaration
did not state the jurisdictional facts upon which the right of
the court to entertain the suit was brought. In other words,
the case was dismissed for a defect in pleading. In the present
suit the defect of the declaration in the first suit is supplied.
We are of opinion, therefore, that.the plaintiffs in error are
entitled to the benefit of article 2755 of the Code of Tennessee,
for their judgment in the first suit was not upon any ground
concluding their right of action, nor have they been guilty of
such negligence or carelessness in the bringing of their first suit
as should exclude them from the benefit of the said article.
In support of the proposition that plaintiffs in error have not
been guilty of such negligence as should exclude them from the
benefit of article 2755, the case of Cole v. Die j-ayor and
Aldermen of YNashville, 5 Cold. (Tenn.) 639, is much in point.
See alsd fempkis & C%rleton Railroad Company v. Pillow,
9 Heiskell (Tenn.), 248; Weatlhrslyv. Weathersly, 31 Miss. 662;
Woods v. Hroughton, 1 Gray, 580 ; CoJfin v. Cottle, 16 Pick. 383 ;
G;vens v. Robbins, 11 Ala. 156; S7dillingtonv.'.Allion, 2 Hawks.
(N. C.) 347; Lansdale v. Cox, 7 T. J. Marsh (Ky.), 391 ;.Phepsv.
Wood, 9 Vt. 399; S'pear v. -Newell, 13 Vt. 288; fatthews v.
Philli,8, 2 Salk. 424; Kinsey v. Tayward, 1 Ld. Raym. 432.
The judgment of the circuit court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded to the -circuit court for further proceedinn8 in conformniy with this opinion.

