KNOX CO. COURT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

were permanent in their character. Whether the iloney realized from this compromise is to be applied to the payment of,
the public debt or to make permanent improvements, we do
not undertake to decide, but that the compromise itself was
within the departmental authority of the city council, and not
subject to the control of the board of liquidation, is to our
minds clear.
It follows that the circuit court was right in-refusing to set
aside the compromise.

KNOX COUNTY COURT v. UNITED STATES ex rel.
GEO. W. HARSUM=N.
SAME v. UNITED STATES ex rel. DAVIS.
SAME v. UNITED STATES ex rel. WELLS and Others.
MASON COUNTY COURT v. HUIDEKOPER, Relator.,
BAKER, Treasurer, v. UNITED STATES ex rel. DAVIS.
ALL, IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued October 26th, 1883.-Decided November 12th, 1883.

funipal .Bond&--Taxaton.
Bonds of the kind involved in these suits are debts of the county. Holders
are entitled to payment out of the general funds of the county raised by
taxation for ordinary use, after exhausting the special fund. The majority
of the court adhere to the rulings in United States v. Clark County, 9
U. S. 211 ; United States v. M3facon County, 99 U. S. 582, 589 ; and Miracon
County v. Huidekoper, 99 U S. 592.
CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In United States v. Coun'ty of Clark, 96 T. S. 211, it was
decided, at the October term, 1877, that bonds of the character
of those involved in the present suits were debts of the county,

MR.

and that for any balance remaining due on account of princi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

pal or interest after tte application of the proceeds of the special tax of one-twentieth of one per cent., the holders were entitled to payment out of thegeneral funds of the county. This,
we all agree, means that the payment of this balance is demandable out of funds raised by taxation for the ordinary county
uses. The mandamus applied for in that case was one "requiring the county court and the justices thereof to direct the clerk
of the county to draw a warrant on the county treasurer for
the balance of the judgment remaining unpaid, so that he might
be enabled, on its presentation, to have it paid in its order out
of the county treasury," and there was no fund out of which
the payment could be made, except that raised by taxation for
ordinary county uses. By the judgment of this court such a
mandamus was awarded.
At the next term, in 18M, the point thus decided was explicitly stated in United State8 v.. County of .acon, 99 U. S.
582, 589, and in -Yacon County v. Huidekoper, Id. 592, a majority of the court adhered to the decision and ordered judgment
accordingly. It was conceded on the argument that all the
judgments now under consideration must be affirmed unless
these cases are overruled. This a majority of the court are
unwilling to do, and judgments of affirmance are, consequently,
ordered.

EX PARTE MEAD, Executrix, Petitioner.
ORIGINA.L.
Submitted October i9th, 1883.-Decided November 12th, 1888.

Ap~eal-Bakupfcy.
rhen a claim presented for proof in bankruptcy as a debt against the bankrupt's estate is rejected by the district court, an appeal from the decision
to'the circuit court is incomplete and invalid, if the appellant fails to
give to the assignee the [notice thereof which the statute requires, within
*ten days after the decision--even though such notice may have been given

to the objecting creditor.

Petition for mandamus.

