OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

Railroad Company, and all the rights, privileges, franchises, and
property of said Kansas City and Cameron Railroad Company
were, by said consolidation, transferred to the Hannibal and St.
Joseph Railroad Company, which then and thereby became the
owner of and possessed of the same."
If only a sale of the road to another company had been
authorized and made, then it might very plausibly have been
contended that the purchasing company took and held it
under its own charter only, without the franchises and privileges connected with it in the hands of the vendor company;
but "consolidation." isnot sale, and when two companies are
authorized to consolidate their roads, it is to be presumed that
the franchises and privileges of each continue to exist in respect to the several roads so consolidated. This point was
considered in the case of Tomlin~on v. BrancA, 15 Wall. 460,
and Branch v. City of Charleston,92 U. S. 677, and was decided in accordance with this view. This being so, the authority given to consolidate, "upon such terms as may be deemed
just and proper," would include the power to transfer to the
consolidated company the franchises and privileges connected
with the road, if the law itself did not have that effect; and
the court has found that this was done. We think, therefore,
that the point is not well taken.
The judgment of the circuit court i8 aeffirmed.

HASKINS v. ST. LOUIS & SOUTHEASTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY & Another.
APPEAL FROM -THE

CfCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENESSEE.
Submitted October 9th,1883.-Deelded October 29th, 1888.

Appea-Apea:Z Bond-Certiorari.
The authority confeyred by R. S., ยง 1000, to certify to the responsibility of an
obligor on an appeal bond cannot be delegated. After close of term, citation must issue and be served before the security can be approved and the
appeal completed so as to givo jurisdiction above.

HASKINS v. ST. LOUIS & S. E. RAILWAY CO.

.107

Opinion of the Court.

A receiver was appointed in a suit in equity commenced
below for the foreclosure of a railway mortgage. One H1askins, in the employ of the receiver, struck his head on the
timber of a bridge while on duty on a train in motion, and
was killed. Leave was granted to his widow to prosecute her
claim for damages in the foreclosure suit. After hearing, the
claim was disallowed. Appeal taken, and 'the case submitted
by appellant, there being no appearance for the appellees.
Mr. T E. tilluim8 for appellant.
MR.

CiEF JusTiE
cWA=T

delivered the opinion of the court.

We have no jurisdiction in this case. The appellee has not
appeared and-has never been served with a citation. The decree was entered on the 14th of June, 1879, and at the foot of
the entry is the following: "Petitioner prays an appeal, which
is granted upon bond and security being given, according to
law, within thirty days." A copy of what purports to be an
appeal bond, filed on the 3d of July, 1879, is found in the
transcript, but there is no evidence that it was ever approved
or taken as good and sufficient security by the court or any
justice or judge thereof. A commissioner of the circuit court
has certified that he knew the obligors to be good and responsible for any cost that might accrue in the cause, but that is
not enough. ,See. 1000 of the Revised Statutes requires the
justice or judge signing the citation to take the security. , This
power cannot be delegated to the clerk or to a commissioner.
O'.Reilly v. Edrington, 96 U. S. 724, '726. If the appeal is
allowed in open court the security may be takeii by the court,
and no citation is necessary, but if the security is not given
until after the term is over, a citation must be issued and served.
Sage v. Railroad Co., 96 U. S. 12, 15. Unless an appellee
voluntarily appears, we cannot proceed against him if the
record does not show affirmatively that he has been brought
within our jurisdiction by proper notice.
The apeal i8 dio iwedforwant ofjuiction.

