FEIBELiIAN v. PACKARD.
Statement of Facts.

the language of the claim, or by such a reference to the
descriptive part of the specification as carries such element into
the claim, he makes such element material to the combination,
and the court cannot declare it to be immaterial. It is his
province to make his own claim and his privilege to restrict it.
If it be a claim to a combination, and be restricted to specified
elements, all must be regarded as material, leaving open only
the question whether an omitted part is supplied by an equivalent device or instrumentality. later.3eter Company v. Desper, 101 U. S. 332; Gage v. Herring, 107 U. S. 640.
[The circuit court decreed a diw.miswal of the bull, and the
.plaint;ff]1aving appealed, the decree isajrmed.

FEIBELMAN v. PACIKARD and Another.
IN ERROR TO T E CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Subrdttcd November 8th, 188.-Decided December3d, 1883.
Bankruptcy-Confliet of Laws-Removal of Causes.
1. An action against a marshal of the United States for seizing a stock of goods
more than $5i00 in value, under authority of a writ from a district
court of the United States in proceedings in bankruptcy, the suit being
on his official bond, and the suretieg therein being joined as codefendants, is a suit of a civil nature arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, which may be removed from the State courts to the
federal courts.
2. A district court of the United States sitting in bankruptcy has jurisdiction
to order the seizure and detention of goods, the property of the bankrupt,
although in possession of ar~ther under claim of title. The officer, in a
subsequent action against him for obedience to that order, may justify by
proof that the title to the property at the time of seizure was in the bankrupt. If the local State laws are in conflict with this right, they will
not be regarded as having any application to it. Share v. Doyle, 102
U. S. 680, approved and followed.

Suit against a United States marshal and his sureties on his
official bond to recover for an alleged illegal seizure of goods:
The action was originally brought by Nathan Feibelman,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

since deceased, and revived by his administrator, the plaintiff
in error, by petition fled April 24th, 1873, in the Fourth District Court for the Parish of Orleans, in the State of Louisiana.
Its object was to recover damages for unlawfully seizing and
taking forcible; possession of a stock of merchandise alleged by
the plaintiff to have been his property and in his possession.
The defendant Packard was alleged to be the marshal of the
United States for the district of Louisiana, and the seizure and
taking, of the property is stated to have been under a claim of
authority based upon a writ or warrant issued by the judge of
the District Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana in certain proceedings in bankruptcy instituted in
that court by D. Valentine and Co. as creditors against E.
Dreyfuss & Co.; but it is averred that the writ (Ed not justify
the acts complained qf. The other defendants below were sureties on the official bond of Packard as marshal, and by an
amendment to the original petition it is alleged "that all the
acts charged and complained of in said original petitibn by
which the petitioners suffered the damages therein set forth
were done by said Packard in his capacity of marshal aforesaid,
and axe breaches of the conditions of said bond, and give unto
your petitioner this right df action on said bond against said
marshal and his sureties."
On April -7th, 1865, the defendants fied in the State court
their petition for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States for that district, accompanied by a sufficient bond, conditioned according to law, upon the ground that
the suit arose under a law of the United States, but the application was denied; -and thereafter, on April 22d, 1875, they
filed in the circuit court a petition for a writ of certiorari to remove the same into that court, which was granted. Thereafter
the cause proceeded to final judgment in favor of the defendants in that court, and the plaintiff brought the cause here by
writ of error.
The case was submitted for the plaintiff in error, and argued
for the defendants.
XM.John Bay for the plaintiff in error made the following

FEIBELMAN v. 'PACKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

point on the laws of Louisiana as governing the case. The decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana have been uniform
from the organization of that tribunal to its latest decision on
that point, that a sale in fraud of creditors cannot be attacked
by a seizure by the sheriff, under an execution against the
debtor, of the property in the hands of a third possessor, as
was attempted in this case. We refer the court to the following decisions on that point: St. Avid v. Vermprender8 Syndics,
4 Martin (La.) 704; Richard8v. _TVoldn, '7 Martin (La.), 534; Peet
v. forgan, 9 Martin (La.), 307; BJrlbarinv. Satucier, 8 Martin
(La.), 561; Crockerv. De Pas8an,3 La. 27; Brunet v. Duvergis,
3 La. 81, 124; Wee8 v. Flower,6 La. 237; -Yller v. Blanchard,
19 La. Ann. 53; Van Ostern v. Simmon:!, 15 La. Ann. 302;
Schneider v. Dreyfu8, 21 La. Ann. 271; Austin v. Da Rocha, 23
La. Ann. 44; Anderson v. Carroll,23 La. Ann. 175; -Doherty
v. Leake, 2-4 La. Ann. 224; Choppin v. Blanc, 25 La. Ann. 35;
_YcAdanm v. Boria, 31 La. Ann. 862. This is very direct in
point.
I.& J. . Beckwith for the defendants in error.

MATxrnws delivered the opinion of the court.
The action of the circuit court in the removal of the cause
from the State court is assigned for error, and is first to be considered.
The suit was pending in the State court, but was not at issue
when the removal act of March 3d, 1875, took effect, and the
right of removal is regulated by its provisions.
The ground bf the removal was that the suit, being one of a
civil nature at law, in which the matter in dispute, exclusive of
costs, exceeded five hundred dollars in value, arose under the
Constitution and laws of the United States.
It is clear that the circuit court did not err in directing the
removal of the suit from the State court; for, if we look at the
nature of the plaintiff's cause of action and the grounds of the
defence, as set forth in his petition, it is apparent that the suit
arose under a law of the United States.
The action, as we have seen, was founded on the official bond
MiR. JusTrcE

OCTOBER TERM, 1883..
Opinion of the Court.

of Packard as marshal of the United States for that district, his
sureties being joined as codefendants, and the acts complained
of as illegal and injurious being charged to be breaches of its
condition. The bond was required to b6 given by sec. 783,
Rev. Stats., and -see. 784- expressly gives the right of action, as
follows:
"In the case of a breach of the condition of a marshal's bond,
any person thereby injured may institute, in his own name and
for his sole use, a suit on said bond and thereupon recover such
damages as shall be legally assessed, with costs of suit, for which
execution may issue for him in due form. If such party fails to
recover in the suit, judgment shall be rendered and execution may
issue against him for costs in favor of the defendant ; and the
United States shall in nb case be liable for the same."

Secs. 785 and 786 contain provisions regulating the suit, the
latter prescribing the limitation of six years after the cause of
action has accrued, after which no such suit shall be maintained,
with the usual saving in behalf of persots under disabilities.
The counsel for plaintiff in error assumes in argument that
the suit was to recover damages for alleged trespasses. It was
plainly upon the bond itself, and therefore arose directly
under the provisions of an act of Congress. Gwin v. Breedlove,
2 How. 29 ; GCwin v. Barton, 6 How. '7.
In X1Ke v. 1?aines, 10 Wall. 22, the removal, which was
held to be unlawful, was made under the supposed authority
of the act of March 3d, 1863, and that of April 9th, 1866.
After the removal of the cause, it was put at issue by the
filing, on the part of the defendants, bf an answer and a=ended
answer. In these answers it was alleged that in a proceeding
in bankruptcy against Dreyfus & Co., duly commenced in the
district court for that district by David Valentine & Co., as
creditors, an order was ma le directing "that the marshal take
provisional possession of all the property of thesaid defendants,
real and personal, belonging to the said firm of E. Dreyfus &
Co., or the individual members thereof, and particularly the merchandise pretended to have been transferred to Moses Feibelman, at Delt. Louisiana, and all of the books of account$ bank

FEIBELMAN v. PACKARD.
Opinion of the Court.

books and papers of or relating to the business of said firm of
E. Dreyfus & Co., and hold the same subject to the further
orders of this court;" that a writ was issued in pursuance of
that order to the defendant Packard, commanding him to execute said order, which is the writ mentioned in the plaintiff's
petition; that, in obedience to the command of the said writ,
the said marshal did take into his possession and custody the
goods and property therein described and referred to, and none
other; and that the said goods and property so taken and
held are the same as those mentioned in the plaintiff's petition,
the same having come into the possession of the plaintiff, in
pursuance of a fraudulent conspiracy between the plaintiff and
Moses Feibelman, and the members of the firm of E. Dreyfus
& Co., the bankrupts, the object of which was to prevent the
same from coming into the possession of the assignee in bankruptcy of said bankrupts, and so to cheat and defraud their
creditors, the said goods and property being, when so seized,
the property of said bankrupts, and not of the said Moses
Feibelman, nor of the plaintiff, neither of whom were entitled
to the possession of the same.
The plaintiff moved to strike from the answer the foregoing
defence, which motion was overruled. This ruling of the court
is assigned for error.
The ground on which this assignment of error is predicated
is, that by the law of Louisiana a person in possession of personal property as owner, claiming title, cannot be disturbed in
that possession by a seizure under judicial process running
against another person; that a transfer in fraud of creditors
cannot be attacked by a seizure by the marshal or sherff, under"
an execution against the debtor, of the property in the hands of
a third possessor; and that, consequently, in this suit, in which
it was admitted that the goods had been taken out of the
possession of the plaintiff, it was not competent to set up as a
defence actual title in the bankrupts.
In support of this proposition, we are referred by counsel to
various sections of the Revised Civil Code of Louisiana, and to
nmnerous decisions thereon by the supreme court of tht t State;
and the statement is made that the decision of this court in

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

Hozey v. Buchanan, 16 Pet. 215,, which, it is admitted, is
not reconcilable with the conclusion insisted upon, was made
without the poinf having been or considered as to the law of
Louisana, under which the case arose.
But it is entirely immaterial, in our view of the case, What
the law of Louisiana upon the point is, for the reason that that
law has no application to it. The question relates, not to any
&Wof that State, but to a law of the United States, and is,
whether under the bankrupt act of 1867, the District Court of
the United States, sitting in bankruptcy, has jurisdiction to
order the seizure and detention of goods, the property of the
bankrupt, although in possession of another under claim of
title, ard whether, in a subsequent action against the officer
for obedience to such an order, he may justify the seizure by
proof that the title to the property was, at the time, in the
bankrupt.
This was the very point decided by this court in Sha7pe v.
Doyke, 1102 U. S. 686, a reference to which makes it unnecessary
to repeat the grounds of the conclusion, that in such a case the
defence here allowed, if established, should prevail.
All the other exceptions taken during the trial were directed
to the admission of testimony in support of this defence, and
are disposed of when the defence itself is adjudged to be valid.
There is, therefore, no error in the record, and
The judgment i.8 a~ffrmed.

SMITH and Another v. McNEAL and Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TH

UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued November 15th, 18th, 1883.-Decide

November 26th, 1883,

Jstopel-L2kitations--Stautesof Tennessee.
A suit was begun, within the seven years prescribed by the Statute of Limitation of tlie Code of Tennessee, in the Circuit Court of the United States
forithe Western District of Tennessee, for'the recovery of land, which was

