-578

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts

PROVIDENCE & NEW YORK STEAMSBIP COMPANY . HILL 'MA
NUFCTURING COMPAN-Y.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPHEMEM JUDICIAL COURT OFIHE COMMON WEALTH
OF ITASSACHUSETTS.
Argued April 2d and 3d, 1883.-Decided December 17th, 1883.
Common Carrier-Gonflictof Laws--Federal Courts-uri8dicton--Limied
Liability-Statutes-Fesels.
in the district court of the United States under the act of 1851,
9 Stat. .635, to limit the liability of ship owners for loss or damage to
goods, supersede all other actions and suits for the same loss or damage
in the State or federal courts, upon the matter being properly pleaded
therein.
2. The effect of such proceedings in superseding other actions and suits does
n1t depend upon the award of an injunction by the district court, but
upon the object and intrinsic character of the proceedings themselves,
and the express language of thd act of Congress.
3. The power of Congress to pass the act of 1851, and of this court to prescribe
thie rules adopted in December term, 1871, for regulating proceedings
under the act, reaffirmed.
4. Loss and damage by fire on board of a ship are within the rdIief of the 3d,
as well as the 1st, section of the act.
5. Goods transported by steamer from Providence to New York were injured
by fire on board the vessel at her dock in the latter place, and suits for
damage were commenced against the owners of the steamer in New York
aend Boston ; thereupon proceedings were instituted by such owners in the
district court of the United States for New York, under the act of 1851, to
limit tieir liability: HelZd, that said proceedings, properly pleaded and
verified, superseded the actions in other courts, and that it was error to
proceed further therein.

S.Proceedings

Action in the Supreme Tudicial Court of Massachusetts by the
Hil Manufacturing Company, a corporation established under
the laws of Maine, having a place of business in Boston, against
the Providence & New York Steamship Company, a corporation established by the laws of Rhode Island, and having no
place of business in Massachusetts, but having a debt due it
from a Massachusetts corporation which ws garnisheed. The
suit was brought to recover the value of cotton goods transported from Providence to New York in one of the steamship
companys vessels, and destroyed by fire in the vessel at the

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 579
Opinion of the Court.

dock in New York. The defendants denied liability. Pending
proceedings the steamship company applied to the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York for the benefits of the limited liability act of 1851, 9 Stat.
635. Under that act the district court took jurisdiction of all
claims against the vessel and its owners arising out of the destruction of the property on board, and issued an order restraining their prosecution elsewhere.' This order ivas duly served
on the Hill Manufacturing Coimpany, and was pleaded and
offered in evidence in this suit; but the court nevertheless
proceeded to give judgment against the steamship company.
The defendants brought their writ of error to reverse that
judgment.
.,. JosepA H. Choate and Xfr. .foorftePd Storey for plaintiffs in"error.
Xr. Josiah G. Abbott and .-'.Samuel A. B. Abbott for
defendants in error.
MaL JusTIn BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error in this case brings up for consideration a
judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts rendered in an action brought by The Hill Manufacturing Company against the Providence and New York Steamship Company as common carriers, to recover damages for the loss of
certain goods delivered by the plaintiffs to the defendants at
Providence, Rhode Island, to be transported to the city o New
York, which goods, it is alleged, were, by the negligence of
the defendants, burned and injured by fire. The loss is stated
to have occurred in May, 1868; the action.was commenced in
September, 1870. The defendants first put in an answer denying the allegations of the declarations; but averring that if the
goods were delivered to them for the purpose stated, they were
delivered to and received by them to be transported to the city
of New York over Long Island Sound (not being river or inland navigation), and were safely transported to New York in
their steamship Oceanus, and that the damage, if any, was
caused'by fire happening to said steamship at her dock in New

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

York, and said fire was not caused by the neglect or design of
the defendants, who were the owners of said steamship, but
occurred

without their pr~vity or knowledge; and they pleaded

the first and third sections of, the act of Congress, 4pproved
farch 3d, 1851, 9 Stat. 635, entitled "An Act. to limit the
liability of ship owners, and for other purposes," the first section of which provided as follows, to wit:
"That no owner or owners of any ship or vessel shall be subject
or liable to answer for or make good to any one or more person
or persons any loss or damage which may happen to any goods or
merchandise whatsoever, which shall be shipped, taken in, or put
on board any such ship or vessel .by reason or by means of any fire
happening to or on board the said ship or vessel, unless such fire is
caused by the design or neglect of such owner or owners."

And the hird section of said act provided as follows, to wit:
"That the liability of the owner or owners of any ship or vessel
for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction by the master, officers,
mariners, passengers, or any other person or persons, of any property, goods, or merchandise shi15ped or put on board such ship or
vessel, or for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any
act, matter or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture done, occasioned,
or incurred without the privity or knowledge of such owner or
owners, shall in no case exceed the amount or value of the interest
of such owner or owners respectively in such ship or vessel and
-her freight then 1 ending."

The defendants subsequently amended their answer by adding a particular statement of the manner in which the loss
occurred, namely, by a fire at New York, which commenced in
a building on the wharf or pier at which the steamship lay
after her arrival, and was rapidly communicated to the vessel,
which was burned to the water's edge, together with most of
her cargo, including not only the goods of the plaintiffs,
but a large quantity of goods of other persons, greatly exceeding in amount.th,-value of the defendants'-interest in the vessel and her freight then pending. The amended answer
further stated, that the defendants having been sued in the

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. FILL M G. CO. 581
Opinion of the Court.

present case and in other cases in New York city and elsewhere, for injuries to said cargo by said fire, and desiring as
well to contest their liability, and the liability of the steamer,
for the loss and damage occasiohaed by the fire, as also to claim
the benefit of the limitation of liability provided for in the
third and fourth sections of said act of Congress, on May 14th,
1872, iled in the proper district court of the United States having jurisdiction thereof, to wit, the District Court for the Southern District of New York, pursuant to said act and the rules
of the Supreme Court of the United States in that behalf, their
libel and petition, setting forth the facts and circumstances on
and by reason bf which sdch exemption -- 'rom and limitation of
liability were claimed, and offering to pay into said district
court the amount of the defendants' interest in said vessel and-,
freight, or to give a stipulation with sureties for the payment
thereof into said court whenever the same should be ordered,
praying relief in that behalf, and further praying that said dis-.
trict court would cause due appraisement to be had of the
amount or value of the interest of said defendants in said
steamer and her freight for said voyage, and would either
order the same to be paid into said district court, or a stipulation to be given by the defendants with sureties for the payment thereof into said district court whenever ordered, ana that
said district court would issue a monition against all persons
claiming damages for the loss, destruction, damage, and injury
occasioned by said flre on board of said vessel, citing them to
appear before said district court and make due proof of their respective claims at a time to be therein named; and also praying
that said district court would designate a commissioner, before
whom such claims should be presented in pursuance of said
monition; and that if, upon the coming in of the report of said
commissioner and confirmation thereof, it should appear that
said defendants were not liable for such loss, damage, destruction, and injury, it might be so finally decreed by said district
court; otherwise, that the moneys paid or secured to be paid
into said district court as aforesaid (after payment of the costs
and expenses) should and might be divided pro rata amongst
the seyeral claimants in proportion to the amount of tf ftre-

.582

-OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

spective claims, and praying that in the meantime, and until the
final judgment should be rendered, said district court would
make an order restraining the further prosecution of all and
any suit or suits against said defendants in respect to any such
claim or claims; that upon said libel said district court caused
due appraisement to be had and made of the amount or value
of the interest of said defendants in said steamer and her
freight for said voyage, and duly made an order for the giving
by the defendants of a stipulation with sureties for payment
thereof into court whenever the same should be ordered.
The answer further stated that the defendants, pursuant to
the order of said district court, entered into a stipulation, with
two sureties, to pay the value of said interest and freight as so
appraised into said district court whenever ordered, which
stipulation was approved, and said order having been complied
with, a monition was thereupon issued by said district court
against all persons claiming damages for the loss, destruction,
damage, and injury occasioned by said fire on board said
steamer, citing them to appear before said district court and
make due proof of their respective claims at or before a certain
time named in said monition, to wit,, at or before the fifteenth
day of October, A.D. 18'72, which time was at least three
months from the issuing of said monition; and designating
George F. Betts, Esq., a commissioner of said district court, as
the commissioner before whom such claims should be presented,
in. pursuance of said monition, and ordering public and other
notice of said monition as therein set forth, and that said notice,
had been served on the said Hill Manufacturing Company, as,
well as on all other claimants, pursuant to said monition; and
said district court duly made an order iestraining the further
prosecution of all and any suit or suits against the. defendants
in respect of any such claim or claims.
The answer then referred to a certified copy of the libel and
the proceedings thereon, annexed to and .made part of the
answer, and also made profeit of said libel and -proceedings,'
and concluded as follows:
,Awl these defendants further'say that said fire, and the in*jury

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 583
Opinion of the Court.

thereby caused or occasioned, was without the privity or knowledge of these defendants. And these defendants further answ, .ring, say that if the plaintiffs have any claim by reason of Any
injury to said cotton cloth, it cannot be enforced in this action,
but can only be enforced in said suit in said district court, and
then and there only under and pursuant to said act of Congress.
And these defendants, further answering, say that said steamer
Oceanus was not a canal boat, barge, or lighter, and was not
used in rivers or inland navigation, and that said voyage from
Providence to said city of New York was not in rivers or inland
navigation; and that an injunction has been issued by said district court against said Hill Manufacturing Company, restraining
and enjoining them from the further prosecution of this suit, and
that said injunction has been duly served on said Hill Manufacturing Company ; and further, that said Hill Manufaturing Company sued in this court the Boston & Lowell Railroad Company
for the-alleged loss and injury complained of in the declaration in
this cause to the cotton cloth therein mentioned, and recovered
therein a judgment against said Boston & Lowell Railroad Company for said alleged loss and injury, which judgment was settled,
paid, and satisfied."
Upon the filing of this answer the case was opened to a jury,
but before any verdict was taken the case was reserved, upon
the report of the judge who presided at the trial, for the consideration of the full court. In September term, 1875, it was
ordered by the Supreme Judicial Court that the case do stand
for trial. Whereupon the defendants fied the following objections, viz.:
"And now, with the view of having this action taken to the
Supreme Court of the United States upon a writ of error, if the
final judgment therein in this honorable court shall be against the
defendants, and for the purpose of saving the rights of the defendants, and so that their going to trial shall not be constfued a
waiver of their rights or of the objections herein, said defendants
come and object to and protest against the ruling and decision of
this honorable court ordering and directing said action to stand
for trial, and also the ruling of this honorable court that if the
loss cor dained of by the plaintiffs was occasioned by the .neglect

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
of defendants it must have been with their privity or knowledge
and was not within the act of Congress limiting the liability of
ship owners; also the ruling that the proceedings in the district
court of the United States did not affect the jurisdiction of this
honorable court."
'In April term, 1816, the cause came on for trial, and the defendants, by leave of the court, further amended their answer
by setting forth, amongst other things, the final decre e of the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, made on the 16th of October, 1872, by which it
was adjudged and decreed that the Hill Manufacturing Company (the plaintiffs in the present suit), among other parties,
be forever debarred from prosecuting any claims for damages
for any loss, damage, or injury occasioned by the fire on board
the steamer Oceanus, on the 24th of May, 1868.
Thereupon the trial proceeded, and the evidence showed
that the plaintiffs' goods were .delivered to the defendants at
Providence to be transported to New York, and were thus
transported in the steamer Oceanus, upon Long Island Sound,
and that the vessel safely arrived at New York with the goods
on board, and was moored in a slip or dock on the North
River side -on a Sunday morning; and whilst lying there on
that day, ready to be discharged, the fire occurred which
caused the loss in question, commencing in a building on the
wharf or pier which was used by the defendants in their
transportation business. The plaintiffs adduced evidence tending to show that this building was not properly constructed
and managed to avoid the risk of fire, and that the defendants
were guilty of negligence in that behalf ; and they contended
that if the jury believed that the defendants were guilty of
such negligence, they could not claim the benefit of the act of
Congre s, but were liable to respond for the loss of the goods.
The defendants adduced counter proofs, tending to show that
they were not guilty of any negligence; and also put in evidence the record of proceedings upon their libel and petition in
the, District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, corresponding to the statements of their

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 585
Opinion of the Court.

answer; and it was admitted that process and the restraining
order issued in said suit had been duly served upon the plaintiffs. The record of proceedings in said suit is set forth in the
transcript, but it is unnecessary to describe them in detail.
They appear to be in conformity to the act of 1851, and to the
orders made by this court relating to proceedings under said
act for securing the benefit of limited liability provided for
therein. They were instituted in the proper court, namely,
the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, in which district the steamer was found, or
so much as remained of her after the*fire. The libel and
petition set forth the proper facts and made the proper allegations, as well to show that neither the libellants -nor the
steamer were liable for the injury caused by the fire, as to
show that, if there was any liability, the libellants were only
liable to the extent of their interest in the vessel and freight;
and upon this libel and petition the proper proceedings were
had, and the proper monition and process were issued, published and served, to ascertain the amount of the libellants'
interest in the steamer and freight, and to bring all parties before the court who had any claims arising from the injury
caused by the fire; and the said district court, on the 13th day
of May, 1872, made an order restraining the further .prosecution
of the suits which had been commenced against the libellants
in New York, which was duly served upon the respective
parties concerned; and after the amount of the libellants' interest in the vessel and freight had been duly appraised on the
Sth of July, 1872, a further order was made that a monition
issue against all persons claiming damages for the loss and
injury occasioned by the fire on board of said steamer, citing
them to appear before said district court and make due proof
of their respective claims at or before the 15th day of October,
1872; and that the monition be published, and personally
served on the attorneys, proctors or solicitors of the plaintiffs or
libellants in each of the suits brought and pending in any court
in the United States against the libellants, or against said
steamer Oceanus; to recover for any such damages. A monition Was duly issued in pursuance of this order, and vas served

OCTOBER TERMI, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

on the attorney of the plaintiffs in this suit on the 30th day of
July, 1872. On ,the 2d day of September, 1872, the district
\court made a further order against the different plaintiffs and
libellants by name who had brought suits for damages, &c.,
and, amongst others, against the plaintiffs in this case, ordering
them to refrain from the .further prosecution of their respective
suits, or any suit whatever, against the libellant (the defendants in this suit) to recover for any loss of cargo by the aforesaid fire on the steamship Oceanus; and that any further

prosecution of such suits be and the same was by said order
restrained. A certified copy of this order was served on the
plaintiffs' attorney in this suit at Boston on the 7th day of
October, 18,72, and upon their treasurer at.the same place, on
the 9th of the same month. On the .16th of October, 1812,
default was taken against the plaintiffs in this case, and divers
other persons, for failing to, appear and present their claims
,before the district court according to the monitiohn in that behalf, and a decree was made forever debarring them from presenting, filing or prosecuting any claims for damages for any
loss or injury occasioned by said fire.
After the evidence was closed, the defendants asked the
court to rule that upon the whole evidence in the case the plaintiffs could not maintain their action, and that the jury must
find for the defendants; but the court refused so to rule. The
defendants then asked the court- to instruct the jury, amongst
other things, as follows:
"1. That under the proper construction of the act of Congress
entitled '_An Act to limit the liability of ship owners, and for other
purposes' (U. S. Stat. 1851, ch. 43), the libel and petition of the

defendants filed in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and the proceedings had thereon,
the record of which has been put in evidence, are a bar to the plaintiffs' action.
"2. That under the proper construction of said act of Congress,
the plaintiffs are precluded from maintaining their action by said
proceedings in said district court.
"'3. That by the decree of said district court, made upon said
libel and petition, and the subsequent proceedings thereon, it has

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 587
Opinion of the Court.
been adjudged, as between the parties to the present suit, that the
fire which caused the damage, for which the plaintiffs seek to recover, was not caused by the design or neglect of the defendantq,
within the meaning of said act of Congress."
The court refused to give these instructions; but left it to
the jury to find for the plaintiffs if they were satisfied from the
evidence that the fire was caused by the negligence of the defendants, either in respect to the construction and equipment of
the vessel, Dr in respect to the construction and management of
the pier or buildings thereon.
To all the rulings of the court the defendants excepted; and
the jury having found a verdict for the plaintiffs, the exceptions
were argued before the supreme judicial court, and were oyerruled, and judgment was entered for the plaintiffs. To that
judgment this writ of error is brought. The case, as decided
by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, is reported in
113 Mass. 495, and 125 Mass. 292.
The principal question in this case is, whether the institution
of proceedings in the District Court of the United States, under
the act of 1851, for procuring a decrea of limited liabilit-r of
the owners of the Oceanus (the defendants in the present action), for the losses and injuries to goods on board of the vessel,
superseded the prosecution of claims for the same losses and injuries in other courts. It seems to us that this must be the
necessary effect of such proceedings, and that this results as
well from the lafiguage of the law, as from its object and purpose.
The first secti6n of the act exempts ship owners from liabil-.
ity for losses on board of their ship by fire, "unless such fire is
caused by the design or neglect of such owner or owners." .
The second section relates to the shipping of precious metals
and other valuables without giving notice of their character
and value, and exempts the master and owners of the vessel, in
such case, from liability as carriers. The third section declares that the liability of ship owners
for embezzlement,. loss of destruction -ofgoods on board of their
ship by the master, crew, passengers or others, or for loss or.

588,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

damage by collision, or for any act, matter or thing, loss,
damage.or forfeiture, done, occasioned or incurred, without the
privity or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no case
exceed the amount or value of the interest .of such owner or
owners respectively in such ship or vessel and her freight then
pending.
. The fourth section of the law declares, "That if any such
embezzlement, loss or destruction shall be suffered by several
freighters or owners of goods, wares or merchandise, or any
property whatever on the same voyage, and the whole value of
the ship or vessel and her freight for the voyage shall not be
sufficient to make compensation to each of them, they shall receive compensation from the owner or owners of the ship or
vessel in proportion to their respective losses; and for that purpose the said freighters and owners of the property, and the
owner or owners of the ship or vessel, or any of them, may
take the appropriate proceedings in any court for the purpose
of apportioning the sum for which the owner or owners of the
ship or vessel may be liable amongst the parties entitled thereto.
And it shall be deemed a sufficient complianice with the requirements of this act on the part of such owner or owners, if he or
they shall-transfer his or their interest in such-vessel and freight
for the benefit of such claimants, to a trustee, to be appointed
by any court of competent jurisdiction, to act as such trustee
for the person or persons -who may prove -to be legally entitled
thereto, from and after which transfer all claims and proceedings against the owner or owners shall cease." 9 Stat. 685,
636.
By the last section of the act it is declared that it shall not
apply to the owner or owners of any canal-boat, barge, or
lighter, or to any vessel of any description whatever, used in
rivers or inland navigation.
In these provisions of the statute we have sketched in outline
a scheme of laws and regulations for the benefit of the shipping
interest, the value and importance of which to our maritime
commerce can hardly be estimated. Nevertheless, the practical value of the law will largely depend on the manner in
which it.is administred.- If the courts having the execution

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v.'HILL MkFG. CO. 589
Opinion of the Court.

of it administer it in a spirit of fairness, with the view of giving to ship owners the full benefit of the immunities intended
to be secured by it, the encouragement it will afford to commercial operations (as before stated) will be of the last importance: but if it is administered with a tight and grudging
hand, construing every clause most unfavorably against the
ship owner, and allowing as little as possible to operate in his
favor, the law will hardly be worth the trouble of its enactment. Its value and efficiency will also be greatly diminished,
if not entirely destroyed, by allowing its administration- to be
hampered and interfered with by various and, conflicting jurisdictions.

As the present case raises a question of great importance to
the practical and successful working of the law, the decision of
which, indeed, will determine whether it is to be of any real
value, it will be proper to examine a little the grounds on which,
as well the law itself as the proceedings adopted for carrying
it into execution, rest for their support.
We have no doubt that Congress had power to pass the law.
It is not only a maritime regulation in its character, but it is
clearly within the scope of the power given to Congress "to
regulate commerce." In the case of the Lottazwana, 21 Wall.
558, speaking of the power to make changes in the maritime
law of the country, we said:
"Congress undoubtedly has authority under the commercial
power, if no other, to introduce such changes as are likely to be
needed. The scope of the maritime law and that of commercial
regulation are not coterminous, it is true ; but the latter embraces
much the largest portion of ground covered by the former. Under
it Congress has regulated the registry, enrollment, license, and
nationality of ships and vessels ; the method of recording bills
of sale and mortgages thereon ; the rights and duties of seamen;
the limitations of the responsibility of ship owners for the negligence and misconduct of their captains and crews ; and many
other things of a character truly maritime. .
On this subjet the remarks of Air. Justice Nelson, in delivering the opinioii
,f the court in Wite's Bank v. Smith, 7 Wall. 655 (which es^talished the validity and effect of the act respecting the record-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion: of the Court.

ing of mortgages on vessels in the custom house) are pertinent.
ie says, ' Ships or vessels of the United States are creatures of
the legislation of Congress. None can be denominated such, or
be entitled to the benefits or privileges thereof, except those registered or enrolled according to the act of September 1st, 1789 ;
and thosle which, after the last day of March, 1793, shall be registeredor enrolled in pursuance of the act of 31st December, 1792,
and must be wholly owned by a citizen or citizens of the United
States, and to be commanded by a citizen of the same.
.Congress having created, as it were, this species of property and
pconferred upon it its chief value, under the power given in the
Constitution to regulate commerce, we perceive no reason for enteftaining any serious dout but that this power may be extended
to the.securing and protection of the rights aid title of all persons dealing therein.'
It need not be added that if Congress had power to pass
the act of 1851, it is binding on all courts and jurisdictions
throughout the United States.
We have said that, by the provisions of the act, the scheme
was sketched in outline. A reference to its provisions shows
that it was only in outline; and that the regulation of details
as to the form and modes of proceeding was left to be prescribed by judicial authority. The law was evidently drawn
in view of similar laws adopted and in operation in England
and in some of the States. It laid down a few general principles
and propositions, and left it to the courts to enforce them and
carry them into practical effect.
Although the act was passed in 1851, it stood on the statute
book for twenty years before a careful scrutiny of its provisions
was demanded of this court. In the case of The Norwick
Tranportation Company v. fiqght, decided in December
term, 18-71, and -reported in 13 Wallace, 104, we were called
upon to interpret the act, and to adopt some general rules for
the better carrying of it into effect. On that occasion, a history of similar acts, both in,
England and this country, an examination of the general .maxitim6 law on the same subject,
and the circumstances under which the act of 1851 was passed,
were reviewed, and the general effect and, construction of the

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 091
Opinion of the Court.

act were examined and discussed. The consideration given to
the whole sdbject in the opinion delivered in that case, and in
subsequent opinions of this court when the matter has been
brought up for examination, notably in the cases of The Benefactor, 103 U. S.239, and [1e 2vorta Star, 106 U. S. 17, supersedes the necessity of any minute examination of the law at
this time. We will make one extract from the opinion in the
case first referred to. It is there said:
"The proper course of proceeding for obtaining the benefit of
the act would seem to be this: When a libel for damages is
filed, either against the ship i? rem or the owners inpersonam,
the latter (whether with or without an answer to the merits)
should file a proper petition for an apportionment of the damages
according to the statute, and should pay into court (if the vessel
or its proceeds is not already there), or give due stipulation for,
such sum as the court may, by proper inquiry, find to be the
amount of the limited liability, or else surrender the ship and
freight by assigning them to a trustee in the manner pointed out
in the fourth section. Having done this, the ship owner will be.
entitled to a monition against all persons to appear and intervene
p)ro interesse suo, and to an order restraining the prosecution of
other suits. If an action should be brought in a State court, the
ship owners should file a libel in admiralty, with a like surrender
or deposit of the fund, and either plead the fact in bar in the
State court, or procure an order from the district court to restrain
the further prosecution of the suit. The court having jurisdiction
of the case, under and by virtue of the act of Congress, would
have the right to enforce its jurisdiction and to ascertain and determine the rights of the parties. For aiding parties in this be.
half, and facilitating proceedings in the district courts, we. have
prepared some rules which will be announced at an early day."
These rules were announced at a subsequent day of the same
term, and will be found at the c6mmencement of 13 Wallace,

pages xii. xiii.
The substance of these rules, so far as relates to the purpose
in hand, was as follows: that ship owners desiring to claim
the benefit of limitation of liability provided for in the third
and fourth sections of the act, may file a libel or petition in

OCTOBER TERM3, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the proper district court of the United States, setting forth the
facts and circumstances on which such limitation bf liability is
claimed, and praying relief in that behalf; and thereupon the
court, having caused due appraisement to be had of the amount
or value of the interest of said owners respectively in the ship
or vessel, and her freight for the voyage, shall make an order
for the payment of the same into court, or for the giving of a
stipulation with sureties for payment thereof into court whenever the same shall be ordered; or, if the owners shall so elect,
the court shall, without such appraisement, make in order for
the transfer by them of their interest in such.vessel and freight,
to a trustee to be appointed by the court under the fourth
section of the act, an 1 upon compliance with such order, the
court shall issue a ndonition against all persons claiming
damages for loss or injury to goods (respecting which the
limited liability is sought), citing them to appear before the
court and make due proof of their respective claims, at or before a certain time not less than three month- from issuing the
same; and public notice of the monition shall be given as in
other cases, and such further notice served through the post
office, or otherwise, as the court in its discretion may direct;
and the court shall also, on the application of the owner or
owners, make an order to restrain the further prosecution of all
and any suit or suits against said owners in respect of any
such claims.
Provision-is then made for proof of all claims before a commissioner to be appointed by the court, for a report thereon,
and for a pro 'aa distribution of the money paid into court,
or the proceeds of the ship and freight, amongst the several
claimants.
The rules further provide that the ship owners, making suitable allegations for the purpose, shall be at liberty to contest
their liability, or the liability of the vessel, to pay any damages,
as well as to show that if liable they are entitled to a limitation of liability under the act; and that any parties claiming
damages may contest the right of the ship owners to exemption
from liability, or to the benefit of a limited liability.
Finally,.the rules provide that the libel or petition shall be

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 593
Opinion of the Court.

filed and the said proceedings had in any district court of the
United States in which the ship or vessel may be libelled to
answer for any such loss or damage; or, if the vessel be not
libelled, then in the district court of any district in which the
owners maybe sued; and if the ship have already been libelled
and sold, the proceeds shall represent it.
The court had no doubt then, and has no doubt now, of its
power to make these rules under the acts of Congress which
authorized it to prescribe the forms of proceeding in equity and
admiralty causes. The Process Acts of 1792 and 1828 had declared that the forms of writs and other process, and the forms
and modes of proceeding in suits in equity and in those of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, should be according to the
principles, rules and usages which belong to courts of equity
and admiralty respectively, as contradistingaizhed from courts
of common law, except as modified by the Judiciary Act of
1789; but subject to such alterations and additions as the respective courts should in their discretion deem expedient, or to
such regulations as the Supreme Court of the United States
should think proper from time to time by rule to prescribe to
any circuit or district court concerning the same. 1 Stat. 276;
4 Stat. 278. And the Process Act of 1842 gave the supreme
court full power andauthorityto prescribe and regulate the forms
of process in the district and circuit courts, and the forms and
modes of framing and filing libels, bills, answers and other proceedings and pleadings, in suits at law, in admiralty or in equity
in said courts, and the forms and modes of taking evidence, and
generally the form , and modes of proceeding to obtain relief,
and of drawing up and enrolling decrees, and of proceeding before trustees appointed by the court, and generally to regulate
the whole practice of said courts. 5 Stat. 518.
We are clearly of opiniofi that the authority thus vested in
this court was adequate and sufficient to enable it to make the
rules before referred to. The subject is one pre-eminently of
admiralty jurisdiction. The rule of limited liability prescribed
by the act of 1851 is nothing more than the old maritime rule
administered in courts of admiralty in all countries except Eng,
land, from time immemorial; and if this were not so, the subVOL. cx--38

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ject-niatter itself is one that belongs to the department of
maritime law. The adoption of forms and modes of proceeding requisite and proper for giving due effect to the maritime
rule thus adopted by Congress, and for securing to ship owners
its benefits, was therefore strictly within the powers conferred
upon this court; and where the general regulations adopted
by this court do not cover the entire ground, it is undoubtedly
within the power of the district and circuit courts, as courts of
admiralty, to supplement them by additional rules of their
own.
We have deemed it proper to examine thus fully the foundation on which the rules adopted in December term, 1871, were
based, because, if those rules are valid and binding (as we
deem them to be), it is hardly possible to read them in connection with the act of 1851 without perceiving that after proceedings have been commenced in the proper district court in
pursuance thereof, the prosecution pariPcsu of distinct suits
in different courts, or even in the same court by separate claimants, against the ship owners, is, and must necessarily be. utterly
repugnant to such proceedings, and subversive of their object
and purpose.
In promulgating the rules referred to, this court expressed
its deliberate judgment as to the proper mode of proceeding
on the part. of shipowners for the purpose of having their
rights under the act declared and settled by the definitive decree of a competent court, which should be binding on all
parties interested, and protect the ship owners from being harassed by litigation in other tribunals. Unless some proceeding
of this kind were adopted which should bring all the parties
interested into one litigation, and all the claimants into concourse for a _ro rata distribution of the common fund, if is
manifest that in most cases the benefits of the act could never
be realized. Cases might occur, it is true, in which the shipowners could avail themselves of those benefits, by way of defence alone, as where both ship and freight are totally lost, so
that the owners are relieved from all liability whatever. But
even in that case, in the absence of a remedy by which they
could obtain a decree of exemption as to all claimants, they

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 595
Opinion of the Court.

would be liable to a diversity of suits, brought perhaps in
different States, after long periods of time, when the witnesses
have been dispersed, and issuing -in contrary results before
different tribunals; whilst in the ordinary cases, where a
limited liability to, some extent exists, but to an amount less
than the aggregate claims for damages, so as to require a concourse of claimants and apro ratadistribution, the prosecution
of separate suits, if allowed to proceed, would result in a
subversion of the whole objeQt and scheme of the statute'
The questions, to be settled by the statutory proceedings being,
first, whether the ship or its owners are liable at all (if that
point is contested and has not been decided), and secondly, if
liable, whether the owners are entitled to a limitation of liability, must necessarily be decided by the district court having
jurisdiction of the case; and, to render its decision conclusive,
it must have entire control of the subject to the exclusion of
other courts and jurisdictions. 'If another court may investigate
the same questions at the same time, it may come to acdonclusion contrary to that of the district court; and if it does (as
happened in this case), the proceedings in the district court will
be thwarted and rendered ineffective to secure to the ship owners
the benefit of the statute.
This case is very different from that of two concurrent actions for a debt or other demand proceeding at the same time in
different courts; though even that, in the English law, was matter
for plea in abatement in the action last instituted. Still, as both
actions in such case are prosecuted for the same end-the satisfaction of the debt-and as only one satisfaction can be had,
no essential conflict arises between the two. But the very
object of proceedings for limited liability is to inquire and determine whether the parties ought to be sued at all in any other
tribunal after giving up, or submitting to pay the value of, all
their interest in the ship and freight. Besides, it is obvious on
the face of the thing, that proceedings. for limited liability
cannot be participated in by two jurisdictions, without interference and conflict between them, and cannot have any useful
effect if a different court may inquire into and decide the same
question, and execute a separate judgment independent of, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

perhaps contrary to, that of the court to which the inquiry
properly belongs. Such a state of things would utterly defeat
the purpose of the law. The judgment in one court would
annul or render nugatory that of the other.
The inconveniences that may arise from preventing or arresting the prosecution of separate suits by the claimants are no
greater in this case than in the case where proceedings at law
are arrested for the purpose of laving an investigation in a
court of equity, or where distinct and separate suits are restrained for the purpose of settling a common controversy in a
single proceeding, as in the case of bills for preventing a multiplicity of suits, and in cases of bankruptcy. By the Bankrupt
Act of 1861 it was enacted that no creditor whose debt was
provable under the act should be allowed to prosecute to final
judgment any suit at law or in equity therefor against the
bankrupt, until the question of the debtor's discharge should
have been determined; although, if the amount due the creditor
was in dispute, the suit, by leave of the court in bankruptcy,
might proceed to judgment for the purpose of ascertaining the
amount, but execution should be stayed. See Hill v. Harding,
107 U. S. 631. None of the cases here referred to more imperatively require a cessation of proceedings in other suits for the
same cause than that of the proceeding for a limitation of liability under the statutp in question.
Nor is the inconvenience any greater than that which occurs
when a case is removed from the State to a federal court. , In
that case, on the presentation of a petition for removal, duly
verified and showing the proper grounds for removal, and accompanied with the bond required by the statute on that subject,
the law-declares "it shall then be the duty of the State court
to accept said petition and bond, and proceed no further in such
suit." In the case before us, as Well as in the cases of bankruptcy and of removal, the parties have a right to have their
causes heard and determined by a court of the United States
invested with appropriate jurisdiction, and capable of affording
a proper mode of relief.
In England, where t6e forms and modes of proceeding in the
courts9f admiralty are (or formerly were) greatly hampered and

PROVIDMNCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 69T
Opinion of the Court.

restricted, ship owners seeking a decree of limited liability
under the law of that country, were forced to resort to the
court of chancery for redress, aid to call before that court
the various parties interested. Here they were subjected to
some onerous conditions before the court would exercise jurisdiction in their behalf, one of which was, that they must confess
liability for the damages which they sought to have limited in
accordance with the act of Parliament. But when this was
done, and the amount of the confessed liability was paid into
court, they 'were entitled to an injunction against all other suits
and proceedings wherever instituted or pending; and the cause
then proceeded, in due course, by reference to a master to take
the proof of claims and make a report of the facts, and by a
final decree of distribution.
Under recent English statutes, the High Court of Admiralty,
as well as the court of chancery, is empowered to administer
the law, when it has possession of the ship or its proceeds. In
the 11th edition of Abbott on Shipping, published in 1861, it is
stated as follows:
"In cases where several claims are made or apportioned against
an owner for loss of life, personal injury, or loss or damage to ships,
boats, or goods, the court of chancery, and the High Court of Admiralty, whenever any ship or proceeds thereof are under its arrest,
in England and Ireland, and the Court of Session in Scotland, and
any competent court in a British possession, are empowered to
entertain proceedings at the suit of such owner for the purpose of
determining the amount of his liability, and for the distribution
ratably of such amount, and to stop all actions and suits pending
in any other court in relation to the same subject-matter.*
It is believed that in all other countries except England, the
courts of admiralty, or tribunals of commerce having cognizance
of maritime causes, exclusively exercise this jurisdiction; and
no other courts can really exercise it so conveniently and satisfactorily as those courts can. And the general course of pro* Referring to 24 Vict., e. 10, s. 19. For the previous practice see: Thw
Saracen, 2 W. Rob. 451 ; . . on appeal, 11 Jurist, 255; 6 Moore P. C. 56;
.Thw Clara, Swabey, 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ceeding, in whatever courts it is exercised, shows the necessity,
everywhere acknowledged, that the court exercising the jurisdiction in any case should have exclusive control of the case.
In view of these considerations, and having no doubt of the
jurisdiction of the district courts over the matter, as courts of
admiralty, in the rules adopted in December term, 1871, the
District Court of the district in which the vessel is libelled or
found, or in which the owners are sued, was designated as the
proper court in which to institute the proceedings for obtaining a decree of limited liability.- When cases arise in which
the vessel and freight have been totally lost, and no District
*Court has, or can have, possession of any fund to distribute, resort may probably be had with propriety to the District Court
of the district in which -the owners reside, or where the vessel
perished. It will be time enough, however, to consider what
is proper in such exceptional cases when they arise. In Ex
parte Slayton, 105 U. S. 451, we held that jurisdiction accrued
to the District Court of the district comprising the port to which
the vessel was bound, although she had been sunk in the lake
and only a few fragments were washed ashore, the proceeds of
which, however, amounting to a trifling sum, were deposited in
court. On this branch of the subject the following remarks
were made in the opinion pronounced in the case of Nrowiw&
TIan&portaion Company v. Tright, already cited:

"The act does not state what court shall be resorted to, nor
what'proceedings shall be taken; but that the parties, or any of
them, may take ' the appropriatep'oceedings in any court, for
the purpose of ipportioning the sum for which,' &c. Now, no
court is better adapted than a court of admiralty to administer
precisely such relief. It happens every day that the proceeds of a
vessel, or other fund, are brought into that court to be distributed
amongst those whom it may concern. Claimants are called in by
monition to present and substantiate their respective claims ; and
the fund is divided and distributed according to the respective
liens and rights of all the parties. Congress might have invested
the Circuit Courts of the United States with jurisdiction of such
cases by bill in equity, but it did not. It is also evident that the
State courts have not the requisite jurisdiction. Unless, therefore,

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 599
Opinion of the Court.
the District Courts themselves can administer the law, we are reduced to the dilemma of inferring that the legislature has
framed a law which is incapable of execution. This is never to
be done if it can be avoided. We have no doubt that the District
Courts, as courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, have
jurisdiction of the matter; and this court undoubtedly has the
power to make all needful rules and regulations for facilitating
the course of proceeding." 13 Wall. at 123.
We see no reason to modify these views, and, in our judgment, the proper District Court, designated. by the rules, or
otherwise indicated by circumstances, has full jurisdiction and
plenary power, as a court of admiralty, to entertain and carry
on all proper proceedings for the due execution of the law, in
all its parts; and its decrees, in cases subject to its jurisdiction,
are valid and binding in all courts and places. In the present
case, the proper court undoubtedly was the District Court of
the United States for the Southern District of :New York,
where the remains of the vessel were situated, and where suits
were brought against the owners. Proceedings under the act
having been duly instituted in this court, it acquired full jurisdiction of the subject-matter; and having taken such jurisdiction, and procured control of the vessel and freight (or their
value), constituting the fund to be distributed, and issued its
monition to all parties to appear and present their claims, it became the duty of all courts before which any of such claims
were prosecuted, upon being properly certified of the proceedings, to suspend further action upon said claims.
But the power of the District Courts to issue an injunction to
stay proceedings in a State court is questioned, since, by the
Judiciary Act of 1793, 1 Stat. 335, it was declared that no writ
of injunction shall be granted [by the United States courts]
"to stay proceedings in any courmt of a State." But the act of
1851 was a'subsequent statute, and by the 4th section of this
-act--after providing for proceedings to be had under it for the
benefit of ship owners, and after declaring that it shall be
deemed a sufficient compliance with its requirements on their
part if they shall transfer their interest in ship and freight for

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court;

the benefit of the claimants to a trustee to be appointed by the
court-it is expressly declared, that "from and after [such]
transfer all claims and proceedings against the owners shall
cease." Surely this injunction applies as well to "claims and
proceedings" in State courts as to those in the federal courts;
and whilst the District Court having jurisdiction of the case, for
the purpose of enforcing the act of Congress *and the rules
adopted by this court in pursuance thereof, can only direct an
injunction against the parties and not against the courts in
which such "claims and proceedings" are prosecuted; yet, any
further proceedings on the part of said courts, after being judicially informed by plea or suggestion duly made in the cause,
of the action and proceedings in the District Court, would be
against the express words of the act, and clearly erroneous.
The operation of the act, in -this behalf, cannot be regarded as
confined to cases of actual " transfer" (which is merely allowed
as a sufficient compliance with the law), but must be regarded,
when we consider its 'reason and equity and the whole scope
of its provisions, as extending to cases in which what is required and done is tantamount to such transfer; as where the
value of the owners' interest is paid into court, or secured by
stipulation and placed under its control, for the benefit of the
parties interested.
This view of the statutory injunction, and of its effect upon
separate actions and proceedings, renders it unnecessary todetermine.the question as to the legality of the writ of injunction
issued by the District Court. Although we have little doubt of
its legality, the question can only be properly raised on an
application for an attachment for disobeying it. As the writ
was issued prior to the adoption of the Revised Statutes, the
power to issue it was not affected by any supposed change of
the law introduced into the revision, by the 7'20th section of
which the prohibition of the act of 1793 in regard to injunctions
against proceedings in State courts has this exception appended
to it: "except in cases where such injunction may be authorized
by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy." Under the.
rule of " nexpre
iso .vni,"this express exception may be urged
as having the effect of excluding any other exception; though

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 601
Opinion of the Court.

it is observable that the injunction clause in the act of 1851 is
preserved withput change in section 4285 of the Revised Statutes, and will probably be construed as having its original
effect, due to its chronological relation to the act of 1793.
But, as before indicated, the legality of the writ of injunction
is not involved in this case. In our opinion the State court, in
overruling the plea of the defendants, which set up the proceedings pending in the District Court, andin ordering the cause
to stand for trial; and again, on the trial, in overruling as a
defence the proceedings and decree of the District Court as
set up in the amended answer, disregarded the due effect,
as well as the express provisions, of the act of 1851, and
therein committed error. It was the duty of the court, as
well when the proceedings pending in the District Court were
pleaded and verified -by profert of the record, as when the
decree of said court was pleaded and proved, to have obeyed
the injunction of the act of Congress, which declared that "all
claims and proceedings shall cease." When the plea only
showed that proceedings for limited liability were pending and
undetermined in the District Court, probably a stay of proceedings was all that the defendants could require; but when they
set up and produced the final, decree of that court, forever debarring the plaintiffs from prosecuting any claim for damages,
they were entitled either to a verdict and judgment in their
favor, or to a dismissal of the proceedings.
We have assumed in the foregoing discussion that the case of
loss and damage by fire on board of a ship is within the provisions of the third and fourth sections of the act of "1851.
This, however, is disputed, and it is necessary to examine the
question. The .language of the third section (which governs
also the fourth) is certainly broad enough to embrace cases of
loss by fire. It declares that the liability of the owner or
owners of any ship or vessel "for any act, matter or thing,
loss, damage, or forfeiture, occasioned or incurred without the
privity or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no case
exceed the amount or value of the interest of such owner or
owners respectively in such ship or vessel and her freight then
pending." Why should liability for loss by fire be excepted

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

from the relief here prescribed? It is just as much within the
reason of the law as any other liability; and it is within its
terms. If it is excepted, it must be by virtue of some impliqation arising from other parts of the law. Such an implication
is sought in the first section, which declares that no owner or
owners of a ship or vessel shall be liable to answer for any loss
or damage which may happen to any goods on board of such
ship or vessel by reason or means of any fire happening to or
on board of said ship or vessel, "unless such fire is caused by
the design or neglect of such owner or owners.' It is contended that this section covers, the whole ground so far as
liability for losses by fire Is concerned, and therefore such liability must be impliedly excepted from the relief provided by
section three. But we fail to see why this should necessarily
follow. Fire, except -hen produced by lightning, not being
regarded in the commercial law as the act of God, ship owners,
as common carriers, were held liable for any loss or damage
caused thereby. The first section of the act of 1851 was no
doubt intended to change this rule. It was copied (all except
the last clause) from the second section of 26 George III., ch.
86, passed in 1'86. The last clause of the section, excepting
from its operation cases in which the fire is caused "by the
design or neglect" of the owners, was probably implied in the
English statute without b eing expressed, as in ours. In all
cases of loss by fire, not falling within the exception, the exemption from liability is total. But there is no inconsistency
or repugnancy in allowing a partial exemption in cases falling
within the third section; that is, cases of loss by fire happening
without the privity or knowledge of the owners. They may
not be able, under the first section, to show that it happened
without any neglect on their part, or what a jury may hold to
be neglect; whilst they may be very confident of showing,
under the third section, that it happened without their privitf
or knowledge. The conditions of proof, in order to avoid a
total or a partial liability under the respective gections, are very
different.
It is true the owners of a ship may desire to contest all labflity whatever, as well as to establish a limited liability

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 603
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

if they fail in the first defence; and this they may do, as
well in cases of loss by fire as in other cases, in one and the
same proceeding. And we see no repugnancy between the
two defences. One is 'a more perfect defence than the other,
and requires a different class or degree of proofs. That is all.
In our judgment the case of loss or damage by fire is comprised
within the terms and relief of the third and fourth sections of
the act.
Die judgment of the Suprenz Tudiciai Court of Xa, sacku8etts i8 reversed and the cau8c remanded, with direction8 to
take 8uchTfurtherproceeding8a qmay be in accordancewith
tU8 opinion.
MR. JusTicE FrRE, with whom M& JusToE GxY concurred,
dissenting.
I am not able to agree with the court in its disposition
of this case. As I construe the act of 1851 to limit the
liability of ship owners, the liability of the steamship company
for the loss by fire of the goods of the plaintiff below, the Hill
Manufacturing Company, rests upon the first section. In my
judgment that section is not qualified, nor in any respect affected by the rest of the act; nor is an action to recover for
losses by fire, caused by the design or neglect of the owner of
the vessel, controlled by proceedings taken by him to limit 'his
liability for losses from other causes. The opinion of the court
proceeds on the assumption that cases 'of loss and damage by
fire are within the provisions of the third section of the act;
it so states expressly. Yet this assumption necessarily involves
the conclusion that a fire, caused by the design or-neglect of
the owner, may occur Without his privity or knowledge, which
appears to me to be nothing less than saying that contradictory
and inconsistent terms may be appropriately applied to the
same transaction.
The object of the act was to change the rule of the common
law as to the liability of the owners of vessels for losses and injuries, to which they did not contribute, either designedly or by
their neglect, but which were attributable entirely to the acts
or omissions of their officers or employes. The common law

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

placed a burdensome responsibility upon the owners for the
acts or omissions of their agents or servants without their
knowledge or assent; and to' lighten this responsibility the
statute in question was passed. It was not its purpose to limit
the responsibility of the owners for the consequences of their
own wrongful acts of omissions.
The first section exempts them from all liability for loss or
damage by fire of goods shipped on board their vessels, unless
such fire is caused by their design or neglect. When the fire is
thus caused, the common-law rule of liability remains as
before; and that extends to the whole value of the property
if entirely lost, or to the extent to which it may be damaged,
if only partially destroyed. The concluding provision of the
section is equivalent to a declaration that the exemption provided in the preceding part shall not exist when .the fire originated from the wrongful acts or omissions of the owners.
The third section prescribes a limited liability to the owners
for losses from a great variety of acts. It does not exempt
them from all liability, but restricts it in the cases mentioned to
the value of their interest in the vessels and the freight, then
pending. It is as follows:
"That the liability of the owner or owners of any ship or vessel
for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction by the master, officers,
mariners, passengers, or any other person or persons, of any prope rty, goods, or merchandise shipped or put on board such ship or
vessel, or for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any
act, matter or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture done, occasioned,
or incurred, without the privity or knowledge of such owner or
owners, shall in no case exceed the amount or value of the interest
of such owner or owners respectively in such ship or vessel and
her freight then pending."
The fourth section refers to the acts mentioned in the third,
and declares that if any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction.
shall be suffered by several freighters or owners of goods on
the same voyage, and the whole value of the ship 'and freight
shall not be sufficient to make bompensation to each of them,
they shall receive compensation from the owner in -proportion

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 605
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

to their respective losses; and for that purpose the freighters
and owners of the property and the owner of the ship, or any
of them, may take proceedings in any court for the purpose of
apportioning the sum for which he may be liable among the
parties thereto; and the owner may transfer his interest in the
ship and freight, for the benefit of the claimants, to a trustee,
to be appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction, to act
as such for the persons entitled thereto, after which transfer all
claims and proceedings against him shall cease.
It seems clear that the various cases of damages and losses
enumerated in section three are not intended to embrace losses
by fire. This section first speaks of the liability of the owner
for embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by the master, officers,
mariners, passengers, or other persons, of property shipped on
board the vessel. It then speaks of his liability for any loss
damage, or injury by collision; and, lastly, for any loss by any
act, matter, or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or incurred without his privity or knowledge. It is
conceded that the language of the first and second parts of the
section does not include losses by fire, and the language of the
concluding clause does not necessarily include them. It may
be applied to other cases; and as losses by fire are specifically
embraced by the first section, it must receive such application
as will give to each section full force. This is a settled rulo of
construction. Besides, it cannot be contended that an act
done by the design of the owner could have been done without
his privity or knowledge. It must necessarily have been done
with both; and if the fire was caused by the neglect of the
owner it must be presumed to have been caused with his
knowledge. Where one is bound to do a thing or to see that
certain things axe done, he is presumed to know the direct consequence of his carelessness and neglect in those respects.
Especially is this so where his doing the thing, or seeing that it
is done, is necessary to the safety of life or property. He cannot shield himself from responsibility by saying that he did not
know what would be the consequence of his carelessness and
neglect. The law presumes that he does know it and intends
it. The act speaks of neglect by the owner, not by any sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

ordinate officer or agent. It is therefore personal neglect
which is meant, and it would be unreasonable to hold that the
owner was ignorant of that which necessarily f6llowed from
his own personal conduct.
Not only would this be unreasonable, but there is an inconsistency in holding that the first section exempts the owner
from all liability in cases of fire happening without his design
or neglect, if by the third section a liability is fastened upon him
to the extent of the value of the ship and freight in case'of a
fire occurring without his privity or knowledge. And yet, according to the position of the court, the owner is exempted by
the. first section from all liability if a fire occur without his
knowledge and privity, and by the third section is subjected to
liability to the extent of the value of the ship.
As statedi by counsel of the plaintiff below, there can be no
public policy in absolving common carriers by water from their
full liability to others for property which has been entrusted to
their care, and has been lost by their design or neglect. It
certainly would require language, as he observes, so clear
and plain that no subtlety of criticism can escape from the conclusion, before such a purpose can be ascribed to Congress.
It would be establishing a limitation of liability against public
policy, connon right, and the universal feeling of justice. It
would make the law one to protect wrongdoers, and to punish the
innocent who hiad been injured by them while thus protected.
If, then, the first section is not affected by the other sections
of the act, the liability of the owner of a vessel in case of fire
caused by his design or neglect exists, as it always has existed
at the common law; and that liability may be enforced in any
court, State or federal, having jurisdiction of the parties. The
other provisions by which the owner may seek to relieve himself from liability by surrendering his vessel and the freight
earned have no application to such a case. It follows that
the defence of a liability limited, as asserted by the District
Court, goes to the ground.
There is also another copsideration which leads to the same
conclusion. IBy  9 of the Judiciary Act of 1189, re-enacted in
,563, clause 8, of the Revised Statutes, a common-law remedy

PROVIDENCE & N. Y. SS. CO. v. HILL MFG. CO. 607
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

is expressly reserved to suitors in all cases where the admiralty
has jurisdiction, provided the common law also gives a remedy;
and that the common law gives a remedy in cases of losses by
fire where goods are 'entrusted to common carriers by water,
there can be no doubt. Of such common-law remedy, the
State courts have exclusive jurisdiction when the parties are
citizens of the same State, and concurrent jurisdiction with the
federal courts when the parties are citizens of different States.
The State court, therefore, had jurisdiction of this case. It is
a suit inueronam,and even if a federal court might also take
jurisdiction, that of the State court, having first attached, could
not be subsequently defeated. Wallace v. .eConnell, 13 Pet.
136; Taylor v. Carryl,20 How. 583; fallett v. Dexter, 1 Curtis, 178. The federal court could not issue any injunction
against the parties which would affect the jurisdiction of the
State court. The act of Congress of 1793 forbids any injunction from a federal court to restrain the prosecution of a suit in
a State court; and this act has never been repealed, either expressly or by implication, except as to proceedings in banlkruptey. Rev. St.  720; Peck v. Jenness,7 How. 625 ; Taylor
v. Carryl, 20 How. 583; AhEim v. "oorkies, 7 Cranch, 279 ;
.Diggs v. Walcott, 7 Cranch, 179; Tatson V. Jones, 13 Wall.
679 ; Mfaines v. Car enter, 91 U. S. 254; .Dial v. Reynolds, 96
U. S. 340.
For these reasons, I am of opinion that the judgment of the
State court should be -affirmed, and I am cuthorized to say
that MP_ JusTICE Gn y concurs with me in this conclusion.

