LOUISIANA v. MAYOR OF NEW ORLEANS.

285

Syllabus.
recites the names of the firm of Wm. R. Grace & Co., and
describes it as "of the county of Kings and State of New
York." If that bond may be considered as part of the record
for the purpose of ascertaining the citizenship of the parties,
the averment that the plaintiffs are "of the county of Kings
and State of New York" is insufficient to show citizenship.
ingham v. Cabot, 3 Dll. 382; Wood v. T agnon, 2 Cranch, 9;
Jackson v. Aiton, supra.
As the judgment must be reversed and a new trial had, we
have felt it to be our duty, notwithstanding the record, as presented to us, fails to disclose a case of which the court below
could take cognizance, to indicate for the benefit of parties at
another trial the conclusion reached by us on the merits.
And we have called attention to the insufficient showing as to
the jurisdiction of the circuit court, so that, upon the return of
the cause, the parties may take such further steps, touching
that matter, as they may be advised.
The judgm2ent 8 reversed and the cause Pemanded,with directions to set aside the judgment, andfor such further roceedings as may not be inconsistent with this opinion.

STATE OF LOUISIANA ex rel. FOLSOM v. MAYOR
AND ADMINISTRATORS OF NEW ORLEANS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 9th and 10th, 1883.-Decided November 19th. 3883.
ConatitulionalLaw-Contracl-Judgment-Hunicipap Cooration-Tort.
1. The right to demand reimbursement from a municipal corporation for damages caused by a mob, is not founded on contract. It is a statutory right.,
and may be given or taken away at pleasure.
2. The fact that a statutory right to demand reimbursement from a municipal
corporation for damages caused by a mob has been converted into a judgment does not make of the obligation such a contract as is contemplated
in the provision of Article I. Section 10 of the Constitution, that no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
8. The term "contract," as used in the Constitution, signifies the agreement of

OCTOBER TERM, .1883.
Opinion of the Court.
two.or more minds for considerations proceeding from one to the other,
to do or not to do certain acts.
4. To deny to a municipal corporation the right to impose taxes to such an extent as to make it impossible to pay a judgient recovered against it for
injuries done by a mob is not depriving the owner of the judgment of
property within the meaning of the Fourteenth, Amendment to the
Constitution.

tandamus prayed for in the Supreme Court of Louisiana to
the city authorities of New Orleans, to compel them to levy
taxes and pay a judgment recovered by the relator. The
prayer being denied, the decision -was brought here on error
for review, on the ground of repugnancy to the Constitution
-and laws of the United States. The facts appear in the
opinion of the court. ,
-Yr. Thomas . Semmes for the plaintiffs in error.
r F. Mforris for the defendants in error.
Mn. TV
delivered the opifiion of the court.
The relators are the holders of two judgments against the
city of New Orleans, one for $26,850, the other for $2,000.
Both were recovered in the courts of Louisiana; the first in
June, 1877, by the relators; the second in June, 1874, by
parties who assigned it to them. Both judgments were for
damages done to the property of the plaintiffs therein by a
mob or riotous assemblage of people in the year 1873. A
statute of the State made municipal corporations liable for
damages thus caused within their limits. Rev. Stats. of La.,
1870, sect. 2453.
The judgments were duly registered in the office of the
comptroller of the city, pursuant to the provisions of the act
known as No. 5- of the extra session of 1870, and the present
proceeding was taken by the relators to compel the authorities of the city to provide for their payment. At the time
the injuries complained of were committed, and one of the
judgments was recovered, the city of New Orleans was authorized to levy and collect a tax upon property within its limits
of one dollar and seventy-five cents upon every one hundred
dollars of its assessed -value. At the time the other judgment
MR . TusTICm FIELD

LOUISIANA v. MAYOR OF NEW ORLEANS.

287

Opinion of the Court.
was recovered this limit of taxation was reduced to one dollar
and fifty cents on every one hundred dollars of the assessed
value of the property, By the Constitution of the State,
adopted in 1879, the power of the city to impose taxes on
property within its limits was further restricted to ten mills on
the dollar of the valuation.
The effect of this last limitation is to prevent the relators,
who are not allowed to issue executions against the city, from
collecting their judgments, as the funds receivable from the
tax thus authorized to be levied are exhausted by the current
expenses of the city, which must first be net.
The relators sought in the State courts to .compel a levy by
the city of taxes to meet their judgments at the rate permitted
when the damages were done for which the judgments were
obtained. They contended that the subsequent limitation imposed upon its powers violated that clause of the federal Constitution which prohibits a State from passing a law impairing
the obligation of contracts, and also that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which forbids a State to deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law.
The supreme court of the State, reversing the lower court,
decided against the relators, and the same contention is renewed here.
The right to reimbursement for damages caused by a mob
or riotous assemblage of people is not founded upon any contract between the city and the sufferers. Its liability for the
damages is created by a law of the legislature, and can be
withdrawn or limited at its pleasure. Municipal corporations
are instrumentalities of the State for the convenient administration of government within their limits. They are invested
with authority to establish a police to guard against disturbance; and it is their duty to exercise their authority so as to
prevent violence from any cause, and particularly from mobs
and riotous assemblages. It has, therefore, beein generally considered as a just burden cast upon them to require them to
make good any loss sustained from the acts of such assemblages
which they should have repressed. The imposition has been
supposed to create, in the holders of property liable to taxation

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

within their limits, an interest to discourage and prevent any
movements tending to such violent proceedings. But, however
considered, the imposition is simply a .measure of legislative
policy, in no respect resting upon contract, and subject, like all
other measures of policy, to any change the legislature may
see fit to make, either in the extent of the liability or in the
means of its enforcement. And its character is not at all
changed by the fact that the amount of loss, in pecuniary estimation, has been ascertained and established by the judgments
rendered. The obligation to make indemnity created by the
statute has no more element of contract in it because merged
in the judgments than it had previously. The term "contract"
is used in the Constitution in its 6rdinary sense, as signifying
the agreement of two or more minds, for considerations proceeding from one to the other, to do, or not to do, certain acts.
Mutual assent to its terms is of its very essence.
A judgment for damages, estimated in money, is sometimes
called by text writers a specialty or contract of record, because
it establishes a legal obligation to pay the amount recovered;
and, by a fiction of law, a promise to pay is implied where
such legal obligation exists. It is on this principle that an
action ex contractu will lie upon a judgment. Chitty on Contracts, Perkins' Ed., 87. But this fiction cannot convert a
transaction wanting the assent of parties into one which necessarily implies it. Judgments for torts are usually the result of
violent contests, and, as observed by the court below, are imposed upon the losing party by a higher authority against his
will and protest. - The prohibition of the federal Constitution
was intended to secure the -observance of g6od faith in the
stipulation of parties against any State action. Where a transaction is not based upon any assent of parties, it cannot be said
that any faith is pledged with respect to it; and no case arises
for the operation of the prohibition. Garrison v. City of .Yew
York, 21 Wall. 203. There is, therefore, nothing in the liabilites of the city by reason of which the relators recovered their
judgments, that precluded the State froih changing the taxing
power of the city, even though the taxation be so limited as to
postpone the payment of the judgments.

LOUISIANA v. MAYOR OF NEW ORLEANS.

289

Opinion of the Court.
The clause of the Fourteenth Amendment cited is equally.inoperative to restrain the action of the State. Conceding that
the judgments, though founded upon claims to indemnity for
unlawfild acts of mobs or riotous assemblages, are property in
the sense that they are capable of ownership, and may have a
pecuniary value, the relators cannot be said to be deprived of
them so long as they continue an existi-g liability against the
city. Although tiie present limitation of the taxing power of
the city may prevent the receipt of- sufficient funds to pay the
judgments, the legislature of the State may, upon proper
appeal, make other provision for their satisfaction. The judgments may also, perhaps, be used by the relators or their
assignees as offsets to demands of the city; at least it is possible
that they may be available in various ways. Be this as it may,
the relators have no such vested right in the taxing power of
the city as to render its diminution by the State to a degree
affecting the present collection of their judgments a deprivation of their property in the sense of the constitutional prohibition. A party cannot be said to be deprived of his property
in a judgment because at the time he is unable to collect it.
The cases in which we have held that the taxing power of a
municipality continues, notwithstanding a legislative act of
limitation or repeal, are founded upon contracts; and decisions
in them do not rest upon the principle that the party affected
in the enforcement of his contract rights has been thereby deprived of any property, but upon the principle that the remedies for the enforcement of his contracts existing when they
were made have been by such legislation impaired. The usual
mode in which municipal bodies meet their pecuniary contracts
is by taxation. And when, upon the faith that such taxation
will be levied, contracts have been made, the constitutional inhibition has been held to restrain the State from repealing or
diminishing the power of the corporation so as to deprive the
holder of the contract of all adequate and efficacious remedy.
As we have often said, the power of taxation belongs exclusively
to the legislative department of the government, and the extent
to which it shall be delegated -to a municipal body is a matter
of discretion, and may be limited or revoked at the pleasure of
VOL. cIx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the legislature. But, as -we held in Tioy v. 2'Tew Orleans, 103
U. S. 358, and repeated in Ioui8iana v. PiWbumj, 105 U. S.
2;8, in both cases by the unanimous judgment of the court, the
legislation in that respect is subject to this qualification, which
attends all State legislation, that it "shall not conflict with
the prohibitions of the Constitution of the United States, and,
among other things, shall not operate directly upon contracts
of the corporation, so as to impair their obligation by abrogatig or lessening the means of their enforcement. Legislation
producing this latter result, not indirectly as a consequence of
legitimate measures taken, as will sometimes happen, but
directly by operating upon those means, is prohibited by the
Constitution, and must be disregarded-treated as if never
enacted-by all courts recognizing the Constitution as the
paramount law of the land. This doctrine has been repeatedly
asserted by this court when attempts have been made to limit the
power of taxation of a municipal body, upon the faith of which
contracts have been made, and, by means of which alone they
tould be performed.
.....
However great the control of
the legislature over the corporation while it is in existence, it
must. be exercised in subordination to the principle which
secures the inviolability of contracts."
This doctrine can have no application to claims against
municipal corporations, founded upon torts of the character mentioned. Whether or not the State, in so limiting the power of
the city to raise funds by taxation that it cannot satisfy all
claims against it recognized by law, though not r.esting upon
contract, does a wrong to the relators, which a .wise policy
and a just sense of public honor should not sanction, is not a
question upon'which this court can pass. If the action of the
State does not fall within anyprohibition of the federal Constitution, it lies beyond the reach of our authority.
The question of the effect of legislation upon the means of
enforci'g an ordinary judgment of damages for a tort, rendered
against the person committing it, in favor of the person injured, may involve other considerations, aid is not presented
by the case before us.
JTudgnnt affi7rmed.

LOUISIAA v. MAYOR OF'IEW ORLEANS.

291

Concurring Opinion: Bradley, J.
M. JUsTIrcE BR DLE.--I concur in the judgment in this case,

on the special ground that remedies against municipal bodies
for damages caused by mobs, or other violators of law unconnected with the municipal government, are purelk'matters of
legislative policy, depending on.positive law, which may at any
time be repealed or modified, either before or after the damage
has occurred, and the repeal of which causes the remedy to cease.
In giving or withholding remedies of this kind, it is simply a
question whether the public shall, or shall not, indemnify those
who sustain losses from the unlawful acts or combinations of
individuals; and whether it shall, or shall not, do so, is a matter of legislative discretion; just as it is whether the public
shall, or shall not, indemnify those who suffer losses at the
hands of a public enemy, or from intestine commotions or rebellion.
And, as the judgments in the present case were
founded upon a law giving this kind of remedy, I agree with
the court, that any restraint of taxation which may affect the
means of enforcing them is within the constitutional power of
the legislature. Until the claim is reduced to possession, it is
subject to legislative regulation. But an ordinary judgment of
damages for a tort, rendered against the person committing it,
in favor of the person injured, stands upon a very different footing. Such ajudgment is founded upon an absolute right, and
is as much an article of property as anything else that a party
owns; and the legislature can no more violate it without due
process of law, than it can any other property. To abrogate
the remedy for enforcing it, and to give no other adequate
remedy in its stead, is to deprive the owner of his property
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. The remedy for enforcing a judgment is the life of a judgment, just as
much as the remedy for enforcing a contract is the life of the
contract. Whilst the original Constitution protected only contracts from being impaired by State law, the Fourteenth Amendment protects every species of property alike, except such as
in its nature and origin is subject to legislative control. Hence
I regard it important clearly to distinguish between this kind
of judgment, now under consideration, and other judgments
for claims based upon the absolute right of the party.

292 •

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

MR. JUSTIcE

HARLAN

dissenting.

By the Constitution of Louisiana adopted in 1879, and which
went into effect January 1st, 1880, it is declared, "no parish or
municipal tax, for all purposes whatever, shall exceed ten mills
on the dollar of valuation."
The judgments held by plaintiff in error against the city of
New Orleans were rendered and became final long before the
adoption of that constitutional provision. At the time of their
rendition,'the-law forbade- execution against the defendant, but
the city had the power, and was iuader a duty, which the-courts
could compel it to discharge, to include in its budget or annual
estimate for contingent expenses, a sum sufficient to pay these
judgments. At that time, also, .the rate of taxation priscribed
by laW, was ample to enable the city to meet all such obligations. But if the- limitation upon taxation imposed by the
StateC6nstitution be applied to the judgments in. question,
then, itVis conceded, the city cannot raise more rdoney than will
be required to meet the ordinary and necessary expenses of
municipal administration. Consequently, under the limit of
ten mills on the dollar'of valuation, the judgments of plaintiffs
become as valueless as they would be had the State Constitution, in terms, forbidden the city from paying them.
1. Are the judgments in question contracts ? This question
is answered by the Court of Appeals of New York, speaking
by Woodruff, J., in Taylor v. Root, 4 Keyes, 344. It is there
said:
"Contracts are of three kinds: Simple contracts, contracts by
specialty, and contracts of record. A judgment is a contract of
the highest nature known to the law.

.

.

The cause or con-

sideration of the judgment is of no possible importance ; that is
merged in the judgment. When recovered, the judgment stands
as a conclusive declaration that the plaintiff therein is entitled to
the sum of money recovered. No matter what may have been
the original cause of action, the judgment forever settles the
plaintiff's claim and the defendant's assent thereto; this assent
may have been reluctant, but in law it is an assent, and the defendant is estopped by the judgment to dissent. Forever there-

LOUISIANA v. MAYOR OF NEW ORLEANS.

293

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

after, any claim on the judgment is setting up a cause of action
on contract."
Blackstone says that "when any specific sum is adjudged to
be due from the defendant to the plaintiff on an action or suit
at law, this is a contract of the highest nature, being established
by the sentence of a court of judicature." 3 Bl. 465. Chitty
enumerates judgments among contracts or obligations of record,
and observes that they "are of superior force, because they
have been promulgated by, or are founded upon, the authority
and have received the sanction of, a court of record." Chitty
on Contracts, 3. An action in formi, ex contrac& will lie on a
judgment of a court of record, because the law implies a contract
to pay it from the fact of there being a legal obligation to do
so, "although," says Chitty, "the transaction in its origin was
totally unconnected with contract, and there has been no promise in fact." Id. 87.
It seems to me that these judgments are contracts, within
any reasonable interpretation of the contract clause of the
national Constitution. It can hardly be that the framers of
that instrument attached less consequence to contracts of record
than to simple contracts. If this view be correct, then the
withdrawal from the city of New Orleans of the authority
which it possessed when they were rendered, to levy taxes
sufficient for their payment, impaired the obligation of the
contracts evidenced by those judgments.
2. But if this view be erroneous, it seems quite clear that the
State Constitution of 1879 cannot be applied to these judgments
without bringing it into conflict with that provision of the Constitution, which declares that no State shall deprive any person
of property without due process of law. That these judgments
are property within the meaning of the Constitution cannot, it
seems to me, be doubted. They are none the less property because the original cause of action did not arise out of contract,
in the literal meaning of that word, but rests upon a statute
maling municipal corporations liable for property destroyed
by a mob. If a judgment giving damages for such a tort is
not a contract within the meaning of the Constitution, it is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

nevertheless, property, of which the owner may not be deprived
without due process of law. Its value as property depends in
every legal sense upon the remedies which the law gives to
enforce its collection. To withhold from the citizen who has
a judgment for money the judicial means of enforcing its collection--or, what is, in effect, the same thing, to withdraw
from the judgment debtor, a municipal corporation, the authority to levy taxes for its payment-is to destroy the value of
the judgment as property. In Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13
Wall. 166, this court had occasion to consider the meaning of
that provision in the constitutions of the several States which
forbids pivate property from being taken for public purposes
without just compensation therefor. Under the authority of
statutes of Wisconsin, certain dams were constructed across a
public navigablestream of that State. The dams so constructed
caused the waters to overflow the land of a citizen, resulting in
the almost complete destruction of its value. The argument
was there made that the land was not taken within the meaning of the Constitution, and that the damage was only the consequential result of such use of a navigable stream as the government had a right to make for the purposes of navigation.
But, touching that suggestion, this court said:
"It would be a very curious and unsatisfactory result if in
construing a provision of constitutional law, always understood to
have been adopted for protection and security to the rights of the
individual as against the government, and which has received the
commendation of jurists, statesmen, and commentators as placing
the just principles of the common law on that subject beyond the
power of ordinary legislation to change or control them, it shall be

held that if the government refrains from the absolute conversion
of real property to the uses of the public, it can destroy its value
entirely, can inflict irreparable and permanent injury to any extent, can, in effect, subject it to total destruction without making
any compensation, because, in the iiarrowest sense of that word,

it is not'takeen for the public use. Such a construction'Vould
pervert the coiistitutional provision into a restriction upon the
rights of the citizen as those rights stood at the commoki law,
instead of the government, and make it an authority for invasion

LOUISIANA v. MAYOR OF NEW ORLEANS.

295

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.
of private rights under the pretext of the public good, which
had no warrant in the laws or practice of our ancestors."
These principles of constitutional construction have an important bearing upon the present case. If the property of the
citizen is "taken," within the meaning of. the Constitution, when
its value is destroyed or permanently impaired through the act of
the government, or by the acts of others under the sanction or
authority of the government, it would seem that the citizen,
holding a judgment for money against a municipal corporation
-which judgment is capable of enforcement by judicial proceedings at the time of its rendition-is deprived of his property
without due process of law, if the State, by a subsequent law,
so reduces the rate of taxation as to make it impossible for the
corporation to satisfy such judgment. Since the value of the
judgment, as property, depends necessarily upon the remedies
given for its enforcement, the withdrawal of all remedies for
its enforcement, and compelling the owner to rely exclusively
upon the generosity of the judgment debtor, is, I submit, to
deprive the owner of his property.
But it is said that the plaintiffs are not deprived of their
judgments, so long as they continue to be existing liabilities
against the city. My answer is, that such liahility upon the
part of the city is of no consequence, unless, when paym ent is
refused, it can be enforced by legal proceedilgs. A money
judgment which cannot be collected Is of as little value as
Pumpelly's farm was, when covered by water to such an extent that it could not be used for any of the purposes for
which land is desired.
It is also said by my brethren that plaintiffs are not deprived
of their property in these judgments, because at the time they
are unable to collect them. No State shall "deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law," is
the mandate of the Constitution. Could a State law depriving
a person of his liberty be sustained upon the ground that such
deprivation was only for a time? Pumpelly's land was ad
judged to have been taken within the meaning of the Constitution, although it was possible that, at some future time, the

OCTOBER. TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

dams constructed under the authority of the State might be
abandoned, or might give way, causing the waters to retire
within their original limits, and thereby enabling the owner to
re-occupy his farm. It is barely possible that the people of
Louisiana may, at some future period in their history, amend
her Constitution, so as to permit the city of New Orleans to
levy taxes sufficient to meet its indebtedness, as established by
the judicial tribunals of that State. But such a possibility cannot properly be recognized as an element in the legal inquiry
whether the State may so reduce the rate of taxation by one
of its municipal corporations, as to depRive it altogether of the
power to lay valid judgments against it, which, at the time of
their renditioiq, and under the rate of taxation which then obtained, were collectable through judicial proceedings.
It is further said that these judgments may also, "perhaps,"1
be used by the relators or their assignees as offsets to demands
of the city. -Myanswer is, that the city may never have such
demands. The possibility that -it may have ought not to control the determination of this case, involving, I submit, a present deprivation of property, without due process oflaw.
In this case, before the adoption of the Constitution of 18'980, before even the convention that framed it met, the plaintiffs had obtained, in the inferior State court, a final order in a
mandamus suit, requiring the city of New Orleans to include
in its next budget or statement of liabilities (and in succeeding
budgets, until they were paid), the amounts of existing judgments against it, including those held by plaintiffs, and to levy
a tax to the extent of $1.15 on every $100 of valuation to meet
them. This judgment in the mandamus suit was in accordance with the law of the"State as it then was. Plaintiffs, by
the application of the constitutional limitation upon municipal
taxation, adopted after rendition ofjudgment in the mandamus
suit, is thus deprived not only of the benefit of that judgment,
but of all.power to -enforce the collection of the original judgments, In the only way they can be enforced or be made of
any value. If this be not a deprivation of property without
due process of law, it is, I think, difficult to conceive of a case
involving such a deprivation.

WALSH v. PRESTON.
Syllabus.

For these reasons, I feel constrained to dissent from the
judgment.

WALSH, Commissioner, v. PRESTON.
PRESTON v. WALSH, Commissioner.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued March 13th and 14th, 1883.-Deeided November 19th, 1883.
Equity-FinalDecree-Turld&ction--Tezas.
Prior to 1844, the Congress of Texas authorized contracts to be made for settling emigrant families on vacant lands to be designated in the contracts.
Subsequently, that Congress passed an act to repeal this law, and presented
it to the President of Texas for his signature. He vetoed the repealing act.
Congress then passed it over the veto. While the repealing act was thus
suspended, the President contracted with one Mercer and associates to
settle families on a designated tract, capable of identification. Preston, the
appellant in one suit and appellee in the other, was assignee under Mercer.
In February, 1845, the Congress of Texas enacted that on failure of the
associates to have the tract surveyed and marked by the first day of the
next April, the contract should be forfeited.
In October following suit
was began to have the contract annulled for'non-compliance with these
provisions. A decree was entered declaring it forfeited, but it did not
appear that proper ervice of the subpona, or other process or notice, was
made to give the court jurisdiction. After lapse of several years, suit
was brought against the commissioner of the land office of Texas to obtain
certificates for location of land for which claim was made under the contract, either within the limits of the grant, or in case the land there had
been appropriated, then land of equalvalue elspwhere. Thebillalsoprayed
for an injunctionto restrain the commissioner from issuingpate ns for lands
outside the grant, until the claims under the contract should be satisfied.
The defendant denied the principal allegations of the bill, and demurred on
the ground that the State of Texas had not been made a party, averring
that it wasa necessary party. The court below found for the plaintiff on the
facts, and made a decree enjoining the commissioner and his subordinates
forever from issuing patents within the boundaries of the contract tract
except to Preston or his order : Held,,
1. That the decree was defective in not defining specifically the rights of the
plaintiff in the land ; in not adjusting the conflicting rights of Texas
and the plaintiff ; and in-tying up forever the hands of the government
and all other interested parties without affording final relief.

