OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

Of course,'where the power is not exercised by the court,
nor by the judge who allows the appeal, the decree retains its
intrinsic force and effect.
Applying these principles to the present case, it is clear that
the force of the decree was ,ot affected by the appeal,.athough
it was in the power of the special term to have continued the
injunction and to have retained the fund in. its control in the
hands of the receiver had it seen fit to do so. Judging only
from what appears in the record, we cannot refrain from saying that, in this case, the latter course would have been eminently proper. It would have protected all parties and produced injury to none. But if the court failed to do what it
might properly have done, such failure ought not to be visited
upon the receiver, who was the mere instrument and hand of
the court, arid subject to its order. It was his duty to obey the
decree as made.
This disposes of the case, and requires that the decree appealed from should be affnned,--

And iti8 80 ordered.

LOUIS v. BROWN TOWNSHIP.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUJT COuRT OF TEE UlITED STATES FOR THE
,NORTHERN DISTRICT OF o1-0.
Submitted October 11th, 1883.-Decided November Sth, 1888.

stope -udgment--Xiandamus-funicipal Bonds.
Defendants in error issued to A, their bonds with interest coupons attached.
A- endorsed to B, and B endorsed to the plaintiff after the bonds were
overdue. While the bonds were in B's possession, overdue, B was party
defendant in a suit in chancery in a State court in which D, an owner of
real estate alleged to be encumbered by a mortgage to secure .payment of
the bonds, sought to have them declared invalid ; and party plaintiff to a
cross-bill in that suit in which it was sought to have the same 'bonds
i,valid, and the mortgage foreclosed. In these proceedings the
&1
bondsyWere adjudged to be invalid for want of authority in the trustees to

issue them. During the same period B, as holder of the bonds, applied to
the State court for a writ of mandamus to compel the trustees of the township to levy a tax for payment of interest on the bonds. In this suit

LOUIS v. BROWN TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

1.
2.
8.
4.
5.

it was decided that the bonds were issued without legal authority. On
these facts: Held,
That the general rule that a purchaser of overdue bonds, after judgment
rendered that the bonds are void, is bound by that judgment, applies
here.
That when a mandamus is refused on grounds that are conclusive against
the right of the plaintiff to recover in any action whatever, the judgment is conclusive of that fact.
When a proceeding in mandamus is used as an action at law to recover
money, it is subject to the principles which govern meohey actions.
The judgment of the State court that the. bonds were void in the hands of
B, is conclusive of that fact in the hands of his vendee and privy in
action.
If the parties have had a hearing and an opportunity of asserting their rights,
they are concluded by final decree so far as it affects rights presented to
the court and passed upon, even though all were defendants in the suit,
and as between them no issue was raised and no adverse proceedigs
had.

The facts axe fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Yr. Hoadly, -fM. JohnAson and X!r. Colson for the plahntiff
in error.
Yr. J. P. Jones8 and Yr. C. ff Srzbe for the aefendants
in error.

3fi. JusTroE MnER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action on bonds and interest coupons thereto
attached, signed by the trustees of Brown township, payable
to the Springfield, Mt. Vernon and Pittsburgh Railroad Company, or its assigns, on the first day of October, 1811, and
dated April 20th, 1853.

The plaintiff says she is the owner and holder of the bonds
and coupons, and in explanation of her title alleges that "after
execution and delivery of said note to said railroad company as
aforesaid, and in the year 185-4, the said railroad company did
indorse and deliver said not; and the coupons thereto attached
to Brown, Collins and Brown, and that said Brown, Collins
and Brown afterwards indorsed and delivered said note and
coupons to Richard B. Hopple, and Richard B. Hopple afterwards indorsed and delivered said note and coupons to the

plaintiff, who now holds and owns the same."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants for' answer, among other matters, filed two
pleas of a former adjudication, in which the bonds were deelared to be void, and rely upon these in bar of the action.
The first of these pleas, called defence No. 3, sets out a suit
by one Hiram Hipple, plaigtiff, against the trustees of Brown
township, Robert B. Hopple and others, in which he alleges
himself to be the owner of real estate encumbered by a mortgage to secure the payment of the bonds on which the present
suit is brought, and that said defendants, among whom was the
Richard B. Hopple from whom plaintiff -in this suit purchased
the bonds aforesaid, asserted a claim to his land on account oi
said mortgage. The plea further alleges that the holders of thE
bonds, among whoi" was Richard B. flopple, filed their answei
and cross-bill alleging the bonds and mortgage to be valid, and
pray that the bonds and mortgage might be declared to be
valid, and for a decree of foreclosure of the mortgage, and that
in said cross-bill said Richard B. HEpple set up as the foundation of his. prayer for relief, hs ownership of the identical
bonds now set forth in this action. In the suit on the mortgage, which was finally appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State, Hopple and the other bondholders failed, and were
adjudged to pay costs, on the ground of the want of authority
in the trustees of Browh township to issue the bonds. To this
suit the trustees of Brown township and Richard B. Hopple
and other bondholders were parties.
The second plea sets forth an application by Richard B.
Hfopple, in his right as owner of these bonds, for a writ of
mandamus from the Supreme Court of Ohio, to compel the
trustees of Brown township to levy 9,tax to pay the interest
on said coupons. To the alternative writ the trustees answered,
denying the validity of the bonds, and the court decided that
the supposed bonds and coupons were issued without any legalauthority, and without any authority to take stock in the railroad company to which they were delivered, and gave judgment for costs against said Hopple.
The plea also avers that-said bonds were not transferred to
Annie louis, plaintiff, until long after said bonds and coupons
were due.

LOUIS v. BROWN TOWNSHIP.
Gpinion of the Court.

To these pleas demurrers were filed, and the demurrers over.ruled, and plaintiff not desiring to reply or plead further, judgment was rendered for defendant.
The error assigned by plaintiff is the oVerruling of these
demurrers.
We think the court was right, upon. the plainest principles of
jurisprudence.
The vase is unemb.arrassed. by the doctrine of-bona-fide purchaser of negotiable securities, becaus e the bonds were overdue
in thehands of Richard 3. Hopple when the suit of Hipple
against him and others to have them declared void was commenced. The bonds fell due October 1st, 18h71, the suit was
commenced October 18th of that year, and the cross-bill, in which
Hopple sought to enforce the bonds, was commenced April 2d,
1872. The bonds were, therefore, past due during the whole
period of that litigation in which they were adjudged to be
void in his hands.
As regards the action of mandamus while the bonds were not
overdue, at the time of the judgment against Mr. Hopple, the
plea expressly avers that they were overdue when the plaintiff
Louis became their owner, and as she alleges in her declaration
that she bought them of liopple, it follows that they remained
in his hands from the date of the judgment on mandamus
against him until they became past due. This follows also
from the fact that he asserted ownership of them after they
were due, in the cross-bill to Hipple's suit.
The plaintiff, therefore, holding under Hopple by a purchase
made after the bonds were due, and after the judgment in
which they were decided to be void in his hands, is bound by
that judgment, unless something can be shown which takes the
case out of the general rule.
In the mandamus case, the plaintiff was the owner of the
bonds, and the present plaintiff is bound by the privity of a subsequent holder of them. The defendants in that case are the
defendants in this, so that the action is now between parties on
whom that judgment is binding.
The only objection made to this is that while the statute of
Ohio makes a judgment on mandamus a bar to another civil

°166

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

action where the writ is granted, it does not so declare where
it is refused. The words of the statute are not presented to us,
nor any decision bf the courts of that State cited to sustain the
proposition.
It is easy to see why the'statute should declare that where a.
party has had recovery of vhat he claims by a writ of mandamus, the other party should not also be harassed by another
action for the same demand. But it would not follow that
'where a mandamus was refused on grounds which were -condlusiye against the right of plaintiff. to recover in any action
whatever, that the judgment would not be aprotection when.
such othe4 action was brought. Such was the 'case before us.
The ground of the cout's judgment in denying the mandamus
was not left:to inference, however strong that inference might
be from the pleadings,. as in the case of Block v. Die Commi 8Wfnew, 99 U. S. 686, but the court declared, in the case we are
now considering, in positive terms, that: "The said supposed
.'bonds or undertaking and coupons in the writ mentioned, were
issued by the defendantswithout any legal poWer or authority,
and without *anylegal power or authority to make
said supposed subscription to the capital stock of the railroad
company, and that said supposed subscriptions, and said supposed bonds and coupons, are for said reason absolutely void,"
and that defendants are not estopped to set up the invalidity of
said instruments.
Here is not only a denial of the writ of mandamus, but an
adjudication that in the hands of Hopple the bonds in suit were
absolutely void.
This court has repeatedly held since Podtma8m GenraZ
Kondal's Came, 12 Pet., 524, 614, that the proceeding in
mandamus is, when appropriate, an action at law to recover
money, and is' subject to -the principles which govern said
actions, and in the case of Block v. Commimsionerfs, 99 IT. S.
686, the denial of the writ is held to be conclusive in.a subsequent action as to the invalidity of the bonds, though the fact
that the decision in mandamus was based on that ground is
inferred from the pleadings, and not from the express language
of the judgment, as in the present case.

LOUIS v. BROWN TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

We axe of opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Ohio established the fact that the bonds and coupons were
void in the hands of Hopple, and the judgment is conclusive of
that fact against his vendee and privy in this action.
The same result must follow in the case of 'i2pple v. The
Board of Trustee and Richard B. Hpple and others. It is
argued, in avoidance of this conclusion, that the board of trustees and Hopple being both defendants to Ilipple's bill, no
adversary contention on the question of the validity of the
bonds could have taken place between them.
But this view of the case ignores entirely the facts that Hopple, in filing his cross-bill seeking to establish the bonds as
valid, became plaintiff, and made the trustees defendants, and
in this manner raised the issue of their validity between himself and the trustees directly, and it was in express terms decided
against him. His assignee of those bonds, in the present action
against the same trustees, is clearly bound by that decision.
But if there had been no cross-bill, the fact that both Hopple
and the trustees were placed as defendants in the suit of Hipple,
does not impair the conclusive character of the decree in that
case as between those parties. The present case is precisely
analogous to that of Corcoran v. The Chesapeake and Ohio

Canal Co., 94 U. S. U1, and we cannot better express our
views of this case than by a quotation from the opinion in
that:
"It is said that Corcoran and his co-trustees, the canal company
and the State of Maryland,. were all defendants to that suit, and
that as between them no issue was raised by thepleadings on this
question, and no adversary proceedings were had. The answer

is, that in chancery suits, where parties are often made defendants because they will not join as plaintiffs, who are yet necessary
parties, it has long been settled that adverse interests as between
co-defendants may be passed upon and decided, and if the parties
have had a hearingand an opportunity of asserting their rights,
they are concluded by the decree asfar as it affects rightspresented
to the court andpassedupon by its decree. . It is to be observed,

also, that the very object of that suit was to determine the order
of the distribution of the net revenue of the canal company, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

that the Corcoraij truftees were made defendants for no otier
purpose than that they might be bound by that decree. And,
lastly, as the decree did undoubtedly dispose of that question,
its conclusiveness cannot now be assailed collaterally, on a question of pleading, when it is clear that the issue was fairly made
and was argued by Corcoran's counsel, as is shown by the third
head of .their .brief, made a part of this record by stipulation."
And in conclusion the court say: "It seems to us very clear that
the 'question we are now called on to decide has been already
decided by a court of competent jurisdiction which had before it
the parties to the present suit; that it was decided on an issue
properly rai~ed, to which Issue both complainant and defendant
here were pirties, and in which the appellant here was actually
heard by his own counsel; and that it, therefore, falls within
the salutary rule of law which makes -such a decision final and
conclusive between the parties, and that none of the exceptions to
that rule exist in this case."
We are of opinion that both demurrers were properly overruled, and

Iffim he judgment of the circuit court.
M . JusTCE MArix ws did not sit in this case.

ThDIK- A SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. LIVERPOOL, LOTDON & GLOBE IN{SURANTCE COMPAN~T.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE' DISTRICT OF IN'DINNA.
Argued October 15tfi, 1883.-Decided November 6th, 1888.

Appea-Equity-Forelouure--ortgage-Practice---Railroad.
1. When it is within the discretion of the court below to grant or to refuse
leave to file a cross-bill, the refusal to grant such leave is no ground of

appeal.
2. The court will not review an alleged error respecting the proof in a railroad
foreclosure suit and the allowance of amounts due to kolders of mor -

