OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

that what was in the mind of Congress was to protect the
government in the matter of claims against it. But if the protection of claimants was at all in the mind of Congress when
passing the acts of 1846 and 1853, it is quite certain that the
courts should not, to the injury of the government, extend that
protection to those that elected not to avail themselves of the
provisions of those statutes. Here it is not denied that the
power of attorney executed in 1869 embraces, and was intended
to embrace, the claims arising out of the decree of 1868, from
whatever source the money in sitisfaction of it might be
derived. Nor is it pretended that such power of attorney had
been revoked prior to the adjustment and payment of the claims
in question.
It seems to us-looking at the mischiefs intended to be
remedied by these statutes and giving the words of Congress
a reasonable interpretation-that the claimants were not at
liberty, as between the government and themselves, to question
the right of the officers of the treasury to recognize the unreyoked authority which the latter had given to Godeffroy, without restriction as to time, to receive from any one whom it
might concern topay all sums of money due or to become due
and payable on account of the seizure of the vessel Labuan.
The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed.
It ig 80ordered.

JACKSON v. ROBY and Another.
ROBY and Another v. JACKSON.
IN ERROR TO TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted October 31st, 1883.-Decided December 3d, I88

.MineralLands-Revised Statutes.
1. Section 2324 Rev. St. enacts that where certain mining claims referred to in
the section are held in comrmon, the expenditure upon them required by
the act may be made upon any one claim : Held, that the act contem-

JACKSON v. ROBY.
Opinion of the Court.
plates that this expenditure is to be made for the common benefit, and
that one enjoying a mining right defined by metes and b~ounds does not,
by expending money upon a flume which passes over adjoining land-and
deposits the waste from his mine on that land without benefit to such adjoining land, and witlhout other evidence of a claim to it, thereby make an
expenditure upon it within the meaning of the Revised Statutes.
2. In a suit under section 2326 of the Revised Statutes to determine adverse
claims to lands containing valuable mineral deposits, if neither party
shows a compliance with the requirements of law in regard to work done
upon the claim, the finding should be against both.

This was a suit under ยง 2326 of the Revised Statutes to determine adverse claims to lands in Colorado with mineral
deposits. The facts, and the relations of the parties, axe fully
set forth in the opinion of the court.
.2h..John 1). Pope for Jackson.
-Mr. A. D. Bula,?, -r. 2f. B. Carpenterand -Mr.Amos Steck
for Roby and another.
t. JusTImc FIrLD delivered the opinion of the court..
Previous to the legislation of Congress in 1866, mining
claims upon the public lands of the United States were held
under rules framed by miners themselves in different localities.
These rules prescribed the extent of ground which miners could
severally appropriate for mining, and the conditions upon
which such ground could be acquired and held. They bore a
general similarity in different districts, varying only according
to the extent and character of the mines. They all agreed in
one particular, in recognizing discovery and appropriati6n as
the source of title, and development by w rking as the, condition of continued possession. The first discoverer could-derive no benefit from his discovery unless he followed it up by
work for the development of his claim; and what that work
should be, the nature and extent of it, how soon it should commence after the discovery, and when its suspension should be
deemed an abandonment of the claim, were specifically declared.
The act of Congress of 1866 gave the sanction of law to
these rules of miners, so far as they were not in conflict with
the laws of the United States. 14 Stat. 251, ch. 262, see. 1.

M

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cogrt

Subsequent legislation specified with greater particularity the
modes of locatioh and appropriation and extent of each mining
claim, recognizing, however, the essential features of the rules
framed by miners, and among others that which required work
on the claim for its development as a condition of its continued
ownership. The act of 1872-and its provisions are re-enacted
in the Revised Statutes-declares that on each claim subsequently located, until a patent for it is issued, there shall be
annually expended for labor or improvements $100, and on
claims previously located an annual expenditure of $10 for
each one hundred feet in length along the vein; and provides
that when such claims are held in common, the expenditure
may be upon any one of them. And it declares that upon a
failure to comply with these conditions the claim shall be
opened for re-location in the same manner as if no location of
the same had ever been made, provided the original locators,
their assigns, or representatives, have not resumed work upon
it after failure and before re-location. 17 Stat. 93, ch. 152, see.
5; Rev. Stat. ยง 2324.
The act also points out various steps which must be followed
by a party who seeks to obtain a patent for his mining claim.
Among other things, he must file an application in the proper
land office under oath, showing a compliance with the law, together with a plat and the field notes of his claim or claims,
made under the direction of the surveyor-general of the United
States, showing its or their boundaries. He must also at the
time, or within sixty days thereafter, file with the register a
certificate of the surveyor-general that $500 worth of labor has
been expended, or improvements to that. amount have been
made upon the claim by himself or grantors. If within sixty
days thereafter an adverse claim is filed, accompanied by the
oath of the party making it, showing its nature, boundaries,
and extent, proceedings are to be stayed until the controversy
has been settled by the decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, or the adverse claim is waived. And it is made the
duty of the adverse claimant, within thirty days afterwards, to
conunence legal proceedings to determine the question of the
right of possession. *Rev. Stat. ยง 2326.

JACKSON v. ROBY.
Opinion of the Court.

In this case it appears that the defendants claimed the
premises in controversy as their mining ground, and made
application for a patent. The premises are situated on Blue
River, in the county of Summit, in the State of Colorado, and
embrace twenty-three acres and forty-eight hundredths of an
acre. The plaintiff asserted an adverse right to them as part
of what is called in the record "The Thomas Klak Claim," and
brought the present action to determine his right of possession.
In his complaint he alleges that on the 9th of August, 1876, he
was the owner of the Klak claim, and ever since has been such
owner and entitled to -its possession; that he worked the same
as a placer mining claim in connection with other claims adjacent and contiguous to it; that the defendants some time in
1880 entered upon a part of said claim-that portion now in
controversy-and have ever since wrongfully withheld its possession from him. He avers that the premises are worth
$50,000; that the action is brought in support of his adverse
claim; and he asks judgment for possession of the premises.
The defendants, besides denying the allegations of the
plaintiff, set up a right to a portion of the premises by location
and occupation under the mining rules of the district, and to
the remainder by purchase from the original locators.
On the trial the plaintiff produced and gave in evidence a
certificate of location of the Kiak claim made by his grantors
in 1869, and also showed that they were owners of claims
in what is called Lomax Gulch, adjoining and contiguous to
the Kak claim, and began to work such adjoining claims
in 1872, and continued the work until and during 1880; that
in prosecuting the work they used a flume which extended
over the premises in controversy a distance of one hundred
and fifty feet, by means of which the tailings from the Lomax
Gulch-that is, the waste material-were carried and deposited
on the premises, so that at the end they covered a greater
portion of them-more than one-third thereof. From them
the plaintiff traced his title. With the exception of the extension of the flume over the premises, and their use as a place of
deposit for the waste material from the adjoining claims, it
was not shown that either he or his grantors ever did any work

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

upon them, or ever had possession of them. He insisted, however, that this extension of the flume and use of the premises
were sufficient to give him the right of possession under that
clause of the statute which provides that where several mining
claims are held in common the labor or expenditure required
may be made on any one of them. The court below held,
and so instructed the jury, that these facts were insufficient
to establish any possession or right of possession in him, and
that therefore he was not entitled to a verdict.
The defendants proved the location in July, 1880, of a portion of the premises in controversy, then vacant and unoccupied,
and a purchase of the remainder from previous locators; but
they gave no evidence that any work on the claim was done
by themselves or their grantors; and the court held that they
had not established a title for the consideration of the jury,
who were directed so to find. The jury brought in a verdict
that neither party had proven title to the property. The effect
of this verdict was to leave the defendants, who had applied
for a patent, without any right to it, so far as the premises in
controversy were concerned, and to leave the plaintiff in no
better situation.
The contention of the plaintiff was made upon a singular
misapprehension of the meaning of the act of Congress, where
work or expenditure on one of several claims held in common
is allowedf, in place of the required expenditure on the claims
separately. In such case the work or expenditure must be for
the purpose of developing all the claims. It does not mean
that all the expenditure upon one claim-which has no reference to the development of the others-will answer. As was
said in Smelting v. .ent, 106 U. S., at page 655:
"Labor and improvements, within the meaning of the statute,
are deemed to have been had on a mining claim, whether it consists
of one location or several, when the labor is performed or the improvements are made for its development, that is to facilitate the
extraction of the metals it may contain, though in fact such labor
and improvements may be on ground which originally constituted
only one of the locations, as in sinking a shaft, or be at a distance

JACKSON v. ROBY.
Opinion of tho Court.
from the claim itself, as where the labor is performed for the turning of a stream or the introduction of water, or where the im,rovement consists of the construction of a flume to carry off the
debris or waste material:"

It often happens that for the development of a mine upon
which several claims have been located, expenditures are required exceeding the value of a single claim, and yet -ithout
such expenditures th16 claim could not be successfully worked.
In such cases it has always been the practice for the owneis of
different locations to combine and to work them as one general
claim; and expenditures which may be necessary for the development of all the claims may then be made on one of them. The
law does not apply to cases where several claims are held in
common, and all the expenditures made are for the developInent of one of them without reference to the development of
the others. In other words, the law permits a general system
to be adopted for adjoining claims held in common, and in such
case the expenditures required may be made, or the labor be
performed, upon any one of them.
The language as to the construction of a flume to carry off
the debris or waste material, at the conclusion of the citation
above, has reference to such a structure as may be used to
carry off the common debris of several claims, not to a flume
used merely to remove the debris of one claim. Here nowork
was done for the general improvement of all the claims. The
deposit of the debris from the Lomax Gulch on the premises
in controversy, so far from tending to develop them, imposed
obstacles in the way of their development, by covering them
up with refuse matter.
There having been no work done )yeither claimant, plaintiff
or defendants, on the premises in controversy, the court properly instructed the jury to find against both.
JTudgment qf'med.

