OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

pleadings, trial, and 'determination of the cause, as in action
at law commenced and prosecuted in the usual manner in the
courts of the United States."
In Wgood v. Bailey, 21 Wall. 640, it was decided trat the
omission to give .notice to an assignee of an appeal from a decree in his favor in a suit in equity was fatal to the appeal.
The effect of the ruling in that case is that the statute makes
the notice within the prescribed time "a condition of the right
of appeal" under sec. 4980. That seems to us conclusive of
the present case. Proceedings under sec. 5081 for the re-examination of a claim filed against a bankrupt's estate are in the
nature of a suit against the assignee for the establishment of
the claim. A creditor may move for the re-examination, and,
under general order in bankruptcy No. 34, may be required
to form the issue which is to be certified to the district court
for determination, but the assignee alone can appeal from an
order of allowance, and if the supposed creditor appeals the assignee must defend in the circuit court, where the proceedings
axe against him. Hence the necessity, for notice to him in
such cases; and, in our opinion, the words "to the assignee or
creditor, as the case may be," in sec. 4981, mean to the assignee
if the appeal is by the supposed creditor, and to the supposed
creditor if it is by the assignee.
As, upon the petitioner's own showing, the circuit court
properly refused to entertain his appeal,
Tule akedfor i8 denied, and tze petition, dismiesed.
rz

ALABAMA
N .ERROR

GOLD

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
v. NICHOLS.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Submitted October 29th, 1888.-Decided November 12th, 1883.

Ap.peal-udgment-Turisdiction--Texas.
It is within the discretion of a circuit court of the United States, sitting in the
State of Texas, if a plaintiff appears in open court and remits a part of the

ALAB AMA GOLD LIFE INS. CO. v.. NICHOLS.

233

Opinion of the Court.

verdict in his favor, to make the proper reduction and enter judgment actordingly.
If by such remission the judgment be reduced to $5,000 or less, errors in the

record will be shut out from re-examination, in cases where the jurisdiction of this court depends upon a larger amount being involved m the controversy.
Motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
.A&. W. IF. Boyce for the defendants.
_2&. P. Pkillsp8 and .Xr.TFffallet Phps contra.

Mu. CmEF JusTICE WrrE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In this case a verdict was rendered against the plaintiff in
error for $6,610, and a judgment entered thereon December
9th, 1879. In the verdict was included, for, damages $600,
attorney's fees $500, and interest $510, in all $1,610. The
next day, December 10th, 1879, the defendants in error appeared in open court and "entered a remittitur" of these
amounts, "leaving the amount of said judgment to be for the
amount of five thousand dollars and costs of suit." Upon this
being done a new judgment was entered "that the plaintiffs
have and recover from said defendant the sum of five thousand
dollars, and also costs about this suit incurred as of the date of
said judgment, and have execution therefor instead of the sum
of six thousand and six hundred and ten dollars, and also all costs
about this suit incurred as in said judgment is recited." This
writ of error was brought on the 8th of January, 1880, to reverse the judgment so entered. The defendant in-error now
moves to dismiss the writ because the value of the. matter in
dispute does not exceed $5,000.
The judgment as it stands is for $5,000 and no .iore. The
entry of the 10th of December is equivalent to setting aside
the judgment of the 9th and entering a new one for the amount
remaining due after deducting from- the verdict the sum remitted in open court. There was nothing to prevent'this being
done during the term and before error brought.. The. judgment of the 10th is, therefore, the final judgment in. the action.
In Thompson v. Butler, 95 U. S. 694-696, it was said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"Undoubtedly the trial court may refuse to permit a verdict
to be reduced by a plaintiff upon his own motion; and if the
object of the reduction is to deprive an appellate court of its
jurisdiction in a meritorious case, it is to be presumed the trial
court will not allow it to be done. If, however, the reduction is
permitted, the errors in the record will be shut out from our reexamination in cases where our jurisdiction depends on the
amount in controversy."
Articles 1351 and 1352 of the Revised Statutes of Texas are
as follows:
Any-party in whose favor a verdict has
"'ARTICLE 1351.
been rendered may in open court remit any part of such verdict,
and such rewitter shall be noted on the docket and entered in the
minutes, and execution shall thereafter issue for the balance only
of such judgment, after deducting the amount remitted.
"A RTICLE 1352. Any. person in whose favor a judgment has
been rendered may in open court remit any part of such judgment, and such remitter shall be noted on the docket and entered
in the minutes, and execution shall thereafter issue for the balance only of such judgment, after deducting the amount remitted."

Revised Statutes of Texas, 1879, pp. 211, 212.

Without deciding what effect these statutes will have on our
jurisdiction in cases coming up from that State, if theamount is
remitted after judgment, without any action thereon by the.
court other than noting on the docket and entering on the
minutes what has been done, we are of opinion that it is within
the discretion of a court of the United States sitting in that
State, if a plaintiff appears in open court and remits a part of a
verdict in his favor, to make the proper reduction and enter
judgment accordingly. That was the effect of what was done
in this case, and the rule established in Thom2wn v. Butler,
8upra, applies.
The motion to dismiss is therefore granted.

