OCTOBER. TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

This conclusion makes it unnecessary to consider any of the
other questions raised.
The decree of te circuit court ia revereed and the case i8 renanded to tlt

cowrt, with direction to diemA,8

the bill of

complaint.

ARNSON and Another v. IffURPT, Collector.
nT mRmOR ToTE
RcuT Co=R OF THE umITED STATES. oR
SODTHERN.DISTRICT OF wEWYORK.
Argued October 15th, 1883.-Decided November 19th, 1883.

CoUedor-utom DuNe8-Lzmitatn.-SIatue8.
1. The common-law right of action against a collector to recover back duties
illegally collected is taken away by statute, and a remedy given based on
statutory liability, which is exclusive.
2. The time fixed by statute for commencing this action is within ninety days
after the adverse decision of the secretary of the treasury on appeal,
but if the secretary fail to render a decision within ninety days, the. importer has the option either to begin suit, treating the delay as a denial,
or to await the decision, and sue within ninety days thereafter.
3.The limitation laws of the State in which the suit is brought do not fur.
nish the rule for determining whether the action is brought in time.

The facts appear in the opinion of the court.
-r. Iews andem for the plaintiff in error.
-Y. Solicitor-GezeraZfor the defendant.
usTEc
ATrHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought :May 8th, 1819, by.the plaintiffs in
error in the Supreme Court of New York, to recover money
alleged to have been illegally exacted by the collector for customs duties, and was removed by the defendant by writ of
M&

certiorarito the Circuit Court of the United States for that district.
On the trial it appeared that the several amounmts alleged to
'have been illegally exacted were paid under protest, duly mnade,
on various dates from April 26th, 1871, to November 29th,

ARNSON v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

1871; that within ninety days from date of each payment an
appeal from the decision of the collector had been duly taken
to the secretary of the treasury, and that no decision by that
officer, in any of the cases, had been rendered prior to the commencement of this action; and that this suit was not brought
until after ninety days had elapsed from the date of the latest
appeal, and not until after the lapse of more than six years
from the expiration of that period.
The defendant pleaded in bar, besides other defences, that
the cause of action sued upon did not accrue with six years
before the commencement thereof, that being the limitation
prescribed by the statute of New York, then in force, for actions
upon contracts, obligations, or liabilities, express or implied,
other than those upon judgments or decrees of courts of the
United States, or of courts of any State or Territory within the
United States, and those upon sealed instruments.
The court thereupon directed a verdict in favor of the defendant, to which exception was duly taken, and for that alleged
error the judgment thereon is now brought into review.
The cause of action arose under the act of June 30th, 1864,
13 Stat. 202, the 14th section of which is now section 2931 of
the Revised Statutes. It distinctly provides, that, on the entry
of any merchandise, the decision of the collector of customs at
the port of importation and entry, as to the rate and amount
of duties to be paid on such merchandise and the dutiable costs
and charges thereon, shall be final and conclusive against all
persons interested therein, unless the owner, importer, consignee,
or agent of the merchandise shall, within ten days after the
ascertainment and liquidation of the duties by the proper
officers of the customs, give notice in writing to the collector
on each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision, setting forth
therein, distinctly and specifically, the grounds of his objections thereto, and shall, within thirty days after the date of
such ascertainment and liquidation, appeal therefrom to the
secretary of the treasury. The decision of the secretary on
such appeal shall be final and conclusive, and such merchandise
shall be liable to duty accordingly, unless suit shall be brought
within ninety days after the decision of the secretary of the..

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

treasury on such appeal, for any duties which shall have been
paid before the date of such decision on such merchandise, or
costs or charges, or within ninety days after the payment of
duties paid after the decision of the secretary.
"No suit shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of
any duties alleged to have been erroneously or illegally exacted,
until the decision of the secretary of the treasury shall have
been first had on such appeal, unless the decision of the secretary
shall be delayed more than ninety days from the date of such
-appeal, in case of an entry at any port east of the Rocky MountaiDs, or more than five months in case of an entry west of those
mountains."
The common-law right of action to recover back money
illegally exacted by a collector of customs as' duties upon imported merchandise, rested upoA the implied, promise of the
collector to refund money which he had received as the
agent of the government, but which the law had not
authorized him to exact; which had been: unwillingly paid,
and which, before payment to his principal, he had been
.notified he would be required to repay; and involved a corresponding right on his part to withhold from the government,
as an indemnity, the fund in dispute. The manifest public inconveniences resulting from this situation induced Congress, by
the act of March 3d; 1839, ch. 82, 5 Stat. 348, see. 2, to alter
the relation between these officers and the United States by requiring them peremptorily to pay into the treasury all moneys
received by them officially, without regard to claims for
erroneous and illegal exactions. It was provided, however,
therein, that the secretary of the treasury himself, on being
satisfied that, m any case of duties paid under protest, more
money had been paid to the collector than the law required,
should refund the excess out of the treasury. The legal effect
of this enactment, as was held in Ca-y v. Curti8, 3 How. 236,
was to take from the clainlant all right of action against the
*collector, by removing the ground on which the implied promise
rested. Congress, being in session at the time that decision
was announced, passed the explanatory act of February 26th,

ARNSON v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

1845, which, by legislative construction of the act of 1839, restored to the claimant his right of action against the collector,
but required the protest to be made in writing at-the time of
paynfent of the duties alleged to have been illegally exacted,
and took from the secretary of the treasury the authority to
refund conferred by the act of 1839, 5 Stat. 349, 7 27. This act
of 1845 was in force, as was decided in Barney v. Vfatson, 92 U.
S. 449, until repealed by implication by the act of June 30th,
1864, 13 Stat. 214. The 14th section of the act last mentioned is,
as already cited, in substance, the present sec. 2931 of the Revised Statutes, providing for the appeal to the secretary of the
treasury, and the 16th section, being the present see. 30124, IRev.
Stats., restores to the sectetary of the treasury the authority to
refund moneys paid under protest and appeal, which he shall
be satisfied were illegally exacted, originally conferred upon him
by the act of 1839. And the provision of the act of 1845, which
construed the act of 1839 so as to restore to the claimant the
right of action, judicially declared in Cary v. Ciurtis, &upra,to
have been taken away by the latter, now appears as sec. 3011
of the Revised Statutes. It was in" force when the present
action was brought, and is as follows:
"Any person who shall have made payment under protest and
in order to obtain possession of merchandise imported for him,
to any collector or person acting as collector of any money
as duties, when such amount of duties was not, or was not
wholly, authorized by law, may maintain an action in the nature
of an action at law, which shall be triable by -jury, to ascertain
the validity of such demand and payment of duties, and to recover back any excess so paid. But no recovery shall be
allowed in such action unless a -protest and appeal shall have
been taken as prescribed in section twenty-nine hundred and
thirty-one."
By reference to the 14th section of the act of 1864, now sec.
2931 Rev. Stats., it will appear that the written protest must
be made within.ten days, and the appeal to the secretary of
the treasury within thirty days, from the ascertainment and
voy. cix-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

liquidation of the duties by the proper officer. The decision of
the secretary on such appeal shall be final and conclusive, unless within ninety days after it was made suit is brought; and
no suit shall,, in the meantime, pending the appeal, be brought
unless the decision by the secretary shall be delayed more than
ninety days from the date of the appeal, if arising upon an
entry at any port east of the Rocky Mountains.
It appears to us quite plain, from the reading of the statute,
that no action arises to the claimant, in such cases, until after a
decision against him by the secretary of the treasury; and that
his suit against the collector is barred unless brought within
ninety days after an adverse decision upon his appeal; but,
with the proviso, that if such decision is delayed more than
ninety days after the date of his appeal, it is at the claimant's
option either to sue, pending the appeal, treating the delay as
a denial, or to wait until a decision is in fact made, and then
sue within ninety days thereafter. It cannot be that he is
obliged, in case for any reason a decision at the Treasury
Department is delayed beyond the appointed time, to treat the
delay as an adverse decision, and to bring his suit while the
matter is still sub judice. There is no language in the act requiring such a conclusion, it is inconsistent with the terms actually
employed, and is not founded on any sufficient reason. The
right to sue at all, before the final decision of the appeal, is
merely inferred from the form of the exception, and in its
nature is permissive and not peremptory. The right to sue at
any time within ninety days after the decision on the appeal
is clearly given in the terms which declare that such decision
shall not be conclusive if suit is brought thereafter within that
period; and the prohibition against suing before such decision
is rendered, is express, with the saving only on the part of the
claimant to sue before final decision is rendered, if such
decision is Idelayed for more than ninety days after the date of
the appeal. But there is nothing which requires him to sue
until after such decision has been rendered. The whole purpose of the saving in his favor evidently is, that he shall not be
required to wait longer than ninety days after his appeal for
an adjudication. There is nothing to forbid his waiting, with-

ARNSON v. MURPHY.
Opinion of the Court.

out suit, as long -as he has reason to expect a favorable decision
upon his appeal
From this review of the legislation and judicial history of the
subject, it is apparent that the common-law action recognized
as appropriate by the decision in Elliott v. Swafwout, 10
Peters, 137, has been converted into an action based entirely on
a different principle-that of a statutory liability, instead of an
implied promise-which, if not originated by the act of Congress, yet is regulated, as to all its incidents, by express statutory provisions. And among them are the conditions which fix
the time when the suit may begin, and prescribe the period
at the end of which the right to sue shall cease. Congress
having undertaken to regulate the whole subject, its legislation
is necessarily exclusive. For any inconveniences that may result to outgoing collectors or the representatives of those who
have deceased, by the unavoidable delays in decidPug appeals
in the Treasury Department, and the absence of a definite
period of time beyond which no suit shall be brought, it is for
Congress alone to apply the needful remedy.
It follows that in such cases, of which the present is one, the
limitation laws of the State in which the cause of action arose,
or in which the suit was brought, do not, under section 721;
Rev. Stats., furnish the rule of decision, and that it was, therefore, an error in the circuit court to apply, as a bar to the
action, the limitation prescribed by the statute of New York.
For that error the judgment is accordingly reversed, and the
cause remanded with instructions to grant a new trial, and
It 8g8o ordered.

