TACK CO. v. TWO RIVERS MANUFAQT'G CO.

117

' Syllabus.

to enforce the contract as one continuing during the time
claimed by the libellants would be highly inequitable; and
that, as against the insurers of the cargo, the right of the
boats to compensation must be regarded as having terminated when the ship and cargo were raised, and the boats
must be regarded as having been then discharged, within any
fair interpretation which can be given to the contract. A compensation of $50 per hour for the eighteen hours of actual

pumping would amount to $900.

Every agreement for salvage

compensation is subject, as to amount, to the judgment of the
court as to its being equitable and conformable to the merits
of the case. Parsons on Shipping, 306; Tite Helen and George,
Swabey, 368; Jones on Salvage, 94 et seq.
The final decree of the circuit court was entered on the 24th
of Nay, 1880. On the 26th of June following, the underwriters
on the cargo filed a petition in the circuit court praying a
cross-appeal to thiis court from the decree, and it was allowed,
returnable at the October term, 1880. On the 5th of July following, the bond on the cross-appeal was filed in the circuit
court. But the appellants in the cross-appeal did not docket it
or enter their appearance on it, in this court, until September
27th, 1883; and the appellees in it are entitled to have it dismissed. Grigsby v. Purcell, 99 U. S. 505; Tlte S. S. Osborne,
105 U. S. 447.
Y7ie cross-appealis dimissed, and on the appeal of t libellants, the decree.of the circuit court is afflrmed.

DOUBLE-POINTED TACK COM]fPANY v. TWO RIVERS MANUFACTURING COIPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Argued October 25th, 1883.-Decided November 5th, 1883.
Patent.
The first claim of letters-patent No. 147,848, granted February 10th, 1874, to
the Double-Pointed Tack Company, as assignee of Purches Miles, the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
ventor, for an "improvement in bail-ears," namely, "1. The Compound
staple-fastening d, for bails, made with the diagonally cut penetrating
points 2 and 3, loop 4, and body 5, said diagonally cut points being positioned as set forth, so as to bend upwardly in driving into the wood, as set
forth," does not, in view of what existed before in the art, set forth any
patentable invention.
It was commonly known that the effect of a diagonal cut on a penetrating
point was to force the point, in being driven, in a direction away from the
cut. Double-pointed staples, with a diagonal cut on each point, but the
diagonal cut on one point on the upper and outer side, and on the other
point on the lower and outer side, as the staple was driven, were old, the
effect in driving being to bring the points together ; and there was nothing
more than mechanical skill in putting the diagonal cuts on the same side
of each leg, so as to incline both points, in driving, in the same direction.
The second claim of the patent, namely: "2. The convex metallic washer
e, in combination with the compound ball-fastening staple d, having upwardly penetrating points 2, 3, and loop 4, as and for the purposes specified," does not set forth a patentable combination, but only an aggregation
of parts. Neither the staple nor the washer affects or modifies the action of
the other.

This was a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, for the infringement of letters-patent lNo. 147,343, granted February
10th, 187, t61the plaintiff, the Double-Pointed Tack Company,
as assignee Of Purches Miles, the inventor, for an "improvement in bail-eaxs." The circuit court dismissed the bill, and

the plaintiff appealed to this c.ourt.
The specification of the paient says:
"Wire-staples have been employed to form the fastening eyes
for bails, and these have been driven into the wood with the penetrating points nearly at right angles to *the surface, and in use
they are liable t6 pull out by the weight. My invention consists
in a bail-fastening staple made of wire, with the penetrating ends
cut-at such an angle that, in driving them into the wood, they
will assame an upward inclination, so that the weight will tend
to force such points inwardly rather than to draw them out, and
the bending of the ends in clinching will always be upwardly,
thus making a better and more reliable article than heretofore
and I conibine with such fastening a convex metallic washer to
keep the bail from contact with the wood or the paint thereon.
In the drawing, Figure 1 is a- section of the fastening complete ;

TACK CO. v. TWO RIVERS MANUFACT'G CO. 119
Opinion of the Court.

Figure 2 shows the compound staple fastening separa tely ;
and Figure 3 is an elevation of the
washer.
The wood work, a, represents part of a pail or tub, and the
bail, b, is of wire, having eyes, c, at
the ends, which are bent so as to
A
stand parallel, or nearly so, to each
other. The compound staple-fastening, d, is made with the penetrating
points 2, 3, loop 4 for the eye c,and the
body 5. The ends 2, 3, of the wire are
cut-diagonally, so that, in driving them
into the wood, the tendency is to bend
upwardly and clinch, and they will usually be long enough to pass through the
wood and be clinched. The body of
the fastening stands vertically or nearlr
so, and will usually be partially im--.
bedded in the wood. The sheet-metal
washer e prevents the eye "ccoming
a
against the wood. The points of the
staple penetrate the wood, upwardly so
as effectually to prevent the staple pulling out under the ordinary strain to which it is subjected."

.2.

The claims of the patent were these:
"1. The compound staple-fastening d for bails, made with the
diagonally cut penetrating points 2 and 3, loop 4, and body 5,
said diagonally cut points being positioned as set forth, so as to
bend upwardly in driving into the wood, as set forth. 2. The
convex metallic washer e, in combination with the compound
bail-fastening staple d, having upwardly penetrating points 2, 3,
and loop 4, as and for the purposes specified."

The case was argued by -r. Artkur v. Briesen, for the
appellant; -Yr. Yin. P. Lynde, for the appellee.
MR. JusTIo BLATc

UFodelivered the opinion of the court.

The gist of the invention set forth in the descriptive part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the specification, so far as the first claim is concerned, is to cut
the two penetrating ends of the wire diagonally, and in such a
way that, while the staple is being driven, the cut faces will
both of them be on the lower side, and the two penetrating
ends will both of them incline upwardly. It is shown to have
been commonly known that the effect of a bevel or a diagonal
cut on a penetrating point was to force the point, in being
driven,.in a direction away from the bevel or cut. Doublepointed staples, with a diagonal cut on each point, but the diagonal cut on one point on the upper and outer side and on the
other point on the lower and outer side, as the staple was
driven, were old. They were used to secure wire screens as
guards for windows. 'The effect in driving them was to bring
the two points together, by throwing them towards each other,
through their movements in opposite directions. The mechanical action embodied was the forcing each point, in being
driven, in a direction away from its bevel or cut. The result
was that the legs of the staple were bent and came together,.
and were thus clinched, in the driving, and it was more difficult
to pull out the staple than if the legs had gone in without
.bending. In view of this state of the art, there was no patentable invention, and nothing more than mechanical skill, in
putting the diagonal cuts or bevels on the same side of each
leg of the staple, so as to give both points, in driving, an inclination in the same direction, that direction being one away
from both bevels, and in using the device to fasten a bail. This
was the view.taken by the circuit court. There is no suggestion
in the specffication or claims as to any inventi6i. or novelty in
the form of the loop, or of the body, or in the relative lengths
of the two penetrating points, or as to the angles formed by
such points with the loop or the body, before driving. The so
cutting the penetrating ends that they will both of them incline upwardly in driving is the only feature of invention set
forth, and to this the patent.must be limited, so far as the first
claim is concerned.
The second claim is for the washer in combination with the
staple df the first claim. This is not a patentable combination.
There is only an aggregation of parts when the staple is used

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. BROUGHTON.

121

Syllabus.

with the washer. The use of the washer is stated in the specification to be to keep the eye at the end of the bail from contact with the wood or the paint thereon. The upper point or

leg of the staple goes through the eye and through the centre
of the washer.

But, the presence of the washer does not mod-

ify or affect the action of the staple, nor does the staple modify
or affect the action of the washer.

The washer keeps the eye

of the bail from rubbing the wood of the pail.

It would have

the same effect if it were fastened in some other way than by

having the leg of the staple pass through it, and the staple
would in such case have the same operatin which it now has.'
The decree of the circuit court is afflrmed.

MAN-HATTA.NLIFE TN1SUJRANCE CO.v. BROUG]ITON,
Trustee.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR TME
SOUTHERN DISTRICIT OF .NEWYORK.
Argued October 22d, 1883.-Decided N ovember 5th, 1883.

Fdenee-Insanity--_tuwranJze-,udgment- artie8-Statute-Su ic'.
1. A judgment of nonsuit is no bar to a ne* action, and of no weight as evidence at the trial of that action.
2. Pending an action in a court of the State of New York against a corporation
established in that State, by a widow, a citizen of New Jersey, upon a
policy of insurance on the life of her husband, the plaintiff assigned the
policy to a citizen of New York in trust for her benefit, and was afterwards nonsuited by order of the court. Upon a subsequent petition by
the trustee to another court of the State to be relieved of his trust, a citizen
of New Jersey was at her request appointed trustee in his stead. One
object of this appointment was to enable a stit on the policy to be brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States, which was afterwards brought
accordingly: Held, that the suit should not be dismissed under the act
of 3d March, 1875, c. 137, ยง 1, 5.
8. A self-killing by an insane person, understanding the physical nature and
consequeices of bs act, but not its moral aspect, is not a death by suicide, within the meaning of a condition in a policy of insurance upon his
life, that'the policy shall be void in case he shall die by suicide, or by the
hands of justice, or in consequence of a duel, or of the violation of any

law.

