FLASH v. CONN.
Statement of Facts.

constituted by the testatrix as the representative of all the
interests created by the will, fully authorized, as if he were
absolute owner of the estate, even as she could hax-e done in
her lifetime, to consent to the extension of the time of payment of the mortgage debt without prejudice to the mortgage
security.
There is no error in the record, and
The decee of the circuit ourt i8 afirmed.

FLASH and Others v. CONN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIMOUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Argued November 13th, 1883.-Decided November 20th, 1883.

Conflict of Law-Contrat-Corporation.
1. The liability created by a provision in a general act of the State bf New
York for the formation of corporations, that all the stockholders of every
company incorporated under it shall be severally individually liable to
creditors of the company until the whole amount of the capital stock shall
be paid in and certified, is in contract, and not a penalty; and can be
enforced by an action sounding in contract against a stockholder found in
another State.
2. The courts of New York having held that a liability of a stockholder to creditors arising under one of its general statutes for forming corporations
was in contract, when the attempt was made to enforce it in New York,
this court follows that interpretation in a suit to enforce such a liability
in another State.
3. The liability of a stockholder to a creditor under the 10th section of the
general act of the State of New York for forming corporations for
manufacturing purposes is a liability in contract, which may be enforced by an action at law. It is not necessary to resort to equity.

The plaintiffs in error, who were the plaintiffs below, brought
this suit in the Circuit Court of Escambia County, in the State
of Florida, on January 27th, 1876. It was afterwards, on the
petition of defendant, removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Florida.
The declaration alleged that the defendant, on or before

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

April 1st, 1874, was a stockholder in the Vensacola Lumber
Company, a corporation organized in the State of New York,
under the provisions of an act of the legislature of that State,
passed February 17th, 1848, entitled "An Act to authorize the
formation of a corporation. for manufacturing, mining, &c.,
purposes," and various amendments thereof ; that the defendant was the holder of seventy-five thousand dollars of the stock
of said company, the entire stock being three hundred thousand
dollars; that the company carried on business and had an
office and an agent in said county of Escainbia, State of Florida;
that the company, while the defendant was the holder of the
stock aforesaid, became largely indebted to the plaintiffs, which
indebtedness was evinced by two promissory notes, one for
$5,000, dated September 11th, 1864, and one for $5,946.20, of
like date, and an account stated for $2,646.47; that the plaintiffs, on February 16th, 1875, instituted their suit in the Circuit
Court of said Escambia County against the said company to
recover the amount due on said notes and account, and on
March 15th, 18-5, judgment was rendered by said court in
favor of plaintiffs, for the sum of $14,120.50 and costs; that
the company having been adjudged bankrupt by the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York
in the year 1875, its property could not be taken in execution
to satisfy said judgment, nevertheless an execution was issued
thereon and returned wholly unsatisfied; that the property of
the company had been sold by order of the bankrupt court, and
its proceeds would not more than pay the costs of the bankrupt
proceeding, leaving nothing to be applied to the payment of
said judgment or claims of other creditors against the company;
that by the provisions of the act under which the company was
organized, all the stockholders were severally individually liable
to the creditors of the company to an amount equal to the
amount of- stock held by them respectively for all debts and
contracts made by such company, until the whole amount of
capital stock fixed and limited by such company should have
been paid in, and a certificate thereof made, signed, and sworn
to by the president of said company and a majority of its
trustees, and recorded in the office of the clerk of the county

FLASH v. CONN.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

where the business of the company was carried on. It is
averred that the company failed to comply with the said provisions of the act, and did not, by its president and-a majority
of its trustees, make, sign, swear to, and record said certificate,
either in the county of New York, the county in which the
operations of said company were by its articles to be carried
on, or in the said county of Escambia, in which the, company
carried on business, or in anywise as required by the act, so as
to exempt the defendant from his individual liability. Wherefore, the declaration alleged, the defendant became liable to
the plaintiffs for the said debt and contract made by the company, and the plaintiffs claimed $28,000.
The defendant filed six pleas, to some of which the plaintiffs
demurred and to others fied replications. The defendant
filed a rejoinder to one of the replications, to which the plaintiffs
demurred.
The cause was heard upon the several demurrers, and the
court rendered the following judgment:
"This cause came on to be heard upon the plaintiffs' demurrers
to defendant's first, second, fifth, and sixth pleas, and to defendant's rejoinder to plaintiffs' replication to defendant's third plea,
and the court having determined that the plaintiffs' declaration is
insufficient in law, it is, therefore, considered by the court that
plaintiffs take nothing by their said suit."
From this judgment the writ of error is prosecuted.
X,. . A. Perry for the plaintiffs in error.
.r..Bflehael I.Jfoods for the defendant in error. I. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of Florida upon the writ of
error presented no obstacle to the removal of the case under
the act of 3d March, 1875. Iewitt v. PRIllHps, 105 T. S. 393.
Being properly removed, the parties are subject to that administration of law which is approved in the judicial tribunals of
the United States whose jurisdiction is invoked. King v.
TForthington, 10-4 U. S. 44. The Circuit Court of the United
States was not bound tb follow and repeat the judgment of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

State court upon the demurrer to the declaration when the sufficiency of the latter was again questioned upon. demurrers to
the subsequent pleadings. II. Furthermore, the general principle of law is well settled, that when a statute confers a right
and imposes a liability, withoutprovidinga distinct remedy for
their enforcemnent, the common law supplies an adequate remedy
by giving to a party an appropriate action, by which his rights
may be enforced. But it is equally well settled, that when a
statute confers a right and prescribes a remedy, that remedy
and that only, can be pursued. Knowlton i%Ackley, 8 Cushing,
97; Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall., 527. III. The liability set
forth in the declaration, being in the nature of a penalty imposed by a statute of New York, cannot be enforced in Florida.
Halsey v. A1clean, 12 Allen, 438; Bird v. Hayden, 1 Robertson, 383 ; Derricksonv. Smith, 3 Dutcher (N. J.), 166 ; -FirrtiationalBankv. Price,33 Md. 487;" The State v. John, 5 Ohio, 217;
Cable v. i-c Cune, 26 Mo. 371; lawler v. Burt, 7 Ohio St. 340.
IV. The declaration is bad, because it does not show that the
liability it sets up had been fixed and made actionable by legal
proceedings against the corporation in the State of New York.
The 10th and 24th sections, construed together, show that the
liability created by the former is inchoate; and that it is the
return of theft fa. unsatisfied which makes the liability of the
stockholder absolute, fixed, and actionable. To have that
effect, the execution must necessarily be issued by the court of
the State which declares by statute it shall have such effect;
for it is well settled, that when a statute confers a right and
prescribes a remedy, that remedy, and that remedy only, can be
pursued. Pollard v. Bailey; Knowlton v. Ackley, spra.
But the force and effect of an execution issued by a Florida
court against a New York corporation must be determined by
the laws of Florida, not those of the State of New York
Story, Conflict of Laws, see. 556-9. V. The case made by the
declaration and the sixth plea, upon the demurrer to the latter,
is not the subject of a common-law action, but of a bill in equity.
In Terry v. Tubman, 92 U. S. 156, this court said:
"The case of Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520, is an authority

FLASH v. CONN.
Opinion of the Court.

against the maintenance of a separate action by one creditor who
seeks to obtain his entire debt, to the possible exclusion of others
similarly situated. The proper proceeding is in equity, where all
claims can be presented, all the liabilities of the stockholders ascertained, and a just distribution made."
Mi. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question arising upon the record is whether the
declaration presents a cause which entitles the plaintiffs to recover in this action. This was the question considered by the
court below, and upon what it deemed the insufficiency of that
declaration its judgment was based. The sufficiency of the
pleas and rejoinder were not considered, for, if the declaration
was bad, the question whether the pleadings of the defendant
were good was an immaterial one. If the pleas and rejoinder
of the defendant had been adjudged good, that would not have
been a final judgment to which a writ of error would lie, but
the plaintiffs would have had leave to reply and surrejoin. We
are, therefore, limited to the consideration of the sufficiency of
the declaration.
The liability which this suit was brought to enforce arises, as
the plaintiffs contend, on the tenth section of the act mentioned
in the declaration, namely the act of the legislature of New
York passed February l7th, 1848, entitled "An Act to authorize the formation of corporations for manufacturing, &c., purposes." The tenth section of the act and the eleventh and
twenty-fourth, which also have reference to the liability of
stockholders of the company, were as follows:
"S.c. 10. All the stockholders of every company incorporated
under this act shall be severally individually liable to the creditors of the company in which they are stockholders, to an amount
equal to the amount of stock held by them respectively, for all
debts and contracts made by such company, until the whole
amount of capital stock fixed and limited by such company shall
have been paid in, and a certificate thereof shall have been made
and recorded as prescribed in the following section.
"SEc. 11. The president and a majority 6f the trustees, within
thirty days after the payment of the last instalment of the capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
stock so fixed and limited by the company, shall make a certificate
statinig the amount of the capital so fixed and paid in, which certificate shall be signed and sworn to by the president and a
majority of the trustees ; and they shall within the said thirty
(lays record the same in the office of the county clerk of the
county wherein the business of said company is carried on.
"Sxc. 24. No stockholder shall be personally liable for the
payment of any debt contracted by any company formed under
this act, which is not to be paid within one year from the time
the debt is contracted, nor unless a suit for the collection of such
debt shall be brought against such company within one year
after the debt shall become due; and no suit shall be brought
against any stockholder . . . until an execution against the
company shall have been returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part."
Section 12 of the act will also throw some light on the present controversy. It provided that within twenty days from
January 1st in every year every company organized under the
act should make a report, which should be published, which
should state the amount of the capital of the company, the proportion paid in, and its existing debts, and which should be
signed by the president and a majority of the trustees and verified by the oath of the president and fied in the office of the
clerk of the county where the business of the company was
carried on; and if any of said companies should fail to do so
all the trustees of the company so failing should be jointly and
severally liable for its debts then existing.
The defendant contended on several grounds that the declaration set out no cause of action on which the suit could be
maintained against hhn. The first ground was that the liability of the stockholders under section 10 of the act under which
the company was organized, and which the suit was brought to
enforce, was in the nature of a penalty, and could not be enforced in any court sitting beyond the limits of the State by
which the law was passed.
It is well settled, and is not denied by plaintiffs' counsel, that
the penal laws of one State can have no operation in another.
They are strictly local and affect nothing more than they can

FLASH v. CONN.
Opinion of the Court.

reach.

Te Antelo.pe, 10 Wheat. 66; Beoabille v. Canfild, 14

Johns. 338; Wlestern Transp. Co. v. _Yilderhouse, 87 N. Y. 430;
.e12mo&v. People, 20 N. Y. 562; 1-enry v. Sargeant,13 N. H.
321; Story, Conflict of Laws, ยง 621, 8th ed.
Upon this branch of the case the question for solution is,
therefore, whether the individual liability of stockholders provided for by section 10, above quoted, is in the nature of a penalty, or whether it is, as plaintiffs contend, based on a contract
between the stockholders and the creditors of the company.
We think the liability imposed by section 10 is a liability
arising upon contract.. The stoc1holders-of the company are
by that section made severally and individually liable, within
certain limits, to the creditors of the company for its debts and
contracts. Every one who becomes a member of the company
by subscribing to its stock assumes this liability, which continues until the capital stock is all paid up and a certificate of
that fact is made, published and recorded. The fact that the
liability ceases when these events take place does not change its
nature and make that a penalty which would, without such limitation, be a liability founded on contract.
Such has been the construction given to section 10 by the
Court of Appeals of New York. In the case of WTyles v. Suydam, 64 N. Y. 173, that couft had under consideration sections
10 and 12 of the act under which the Pensacola Lumber Company was organized. The complaint alleged the liability of the
defendant, both as a stockholder under section 10 and as a
trustee under section 12. The complaint was demurred to, on
the ground that two causes of action were improperly joined.
The court sustained the demurrer. In giving the reasons for
its judgment it said:
"The cause of action against the defendant as a stockholder
consists of the debt and the liability created by statute against
stockholders where the stock has not been paid in and a certificate
of that fact recorded. In effect the statute in such a case withdraws the protection of the corporation from the stockholders,
and regards them liable to the extent of the amount of their stock
as copartners. Corning v. .c Cullough, 1 'N. Y. 47. The allegations in the complaint are sufficient to establish a perfect cause

OOTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of action against the defendant as a stockholder, primarily liable
for the debts to the amount of his stock.
"'he allegations against the defendant as trustee also constitute a distinct and perfect cause of action, but of an entirely
different character. Here the liability is created by statute, and
is in the nature of a penalty imposed for neglect of duty in notfiling a report showing the situation of the company. The object
of the action is the same, viz.: the collection of a debt, but the
liability and the grounds of it are entirely distinct and unlike.
That there, are two causes of action in this complaint seems too
clear to require much argument. The first cause of action
against the defendant as a stockholder is an action on contract.
The six years' statute of limitation applies. 1 N. Y. smpra. The
defendant is entitled to contribution. But in respect to the
action against defendant as trustee, this court held, in l3erclaflt8'
-Bankv. Bliss, 35 N. Y. 412, that the three years' statute of limitations applied under the following provision of the code: ' An
action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture when the action
is given to the party aggrieved.'"

This decision is upon the precise point of the controversy in
this case. It declares that the liability such as that which the
plaintiffs in this action seek to enforce is one arising upon contract, and is not in the nature of a penalty. This decision has
never been-modified or overruled by the Court of Appeals of
New York.
We think this is a case where the construction of the State
court is entitled to great if not conclusive weight with us. It
is the settled construction of a law of the State upon which the
rights and liabilities of a large number of its citizens must depend. If the liability of a stockholder under section 10 arises
upon contract, the six years' limitation applies to it; if the littbility is in the nature of a penalty the three yeas' limitation
applies. It is clear that confusion and uncertainty would
result should the State and Federal courts place different constructions on the section. Such a result ought, if possible, to
be avoided.
It is true that this decision was made after the defendant
had become a stockholder in the Pensacola Lumber Company,

FLASH v. CONN.
Opinion of the Court.

but there had been no previous contrary decision. As said by
this court in Burges v. Seligman, 107T U. S. 20, "even in such
cases, for the sake of harmony and to avoid confusion, the
federal courts will lean towards an agreement of views with
the State courts if the question seems to them balanced with
doubt."
If this were a case arising in the State of New York we
should therefore follow the construction put upon the statute
by the courts of that State. The circumstance that the case
comes here from the State of Florida should not" leave the
statute open to a different construction. It would be an anomaly for this court to put one interpretation on the statute in
a case arising in New York, and a different interpretation-in a
case arising in Florida. Our conclusion, therefore, is that this
action was not brought to enforce a liability in the nature of a
penalty.
The right of the plaintiffs to sue upon this liability in
any court having jurisdiction of the subject-matter and the
parties is, therefore, clear. Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103
U. S.11.
The next contentioi of the defendant is that the recovery of
a judgment against the company in the State of New York on
the debt due the plaintiffs, and the issue of an execution thereon, returned unsatisfied, is a necessary condition to the liability
of the defendant; and as the declaration only avers the recovery of a judgment in the State of Florida, it is insufficient.
It appears from the declaration that before the year allowed
by section 21 of the statute, for bringing suits against the company on the debts due the plaintiffs had expired, the company
had been adjudicated a bankrupt by the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York; that all
its property had been sold, and the proceeds thereof were
insufficient to pay the costs and expenses of the-bankraptey
proceedings.
Although it has been held by the court of appeals, in'the
case of the Rocky M2lountain Bank v. Bli~s, 89 N. Y. 338, that
a judgment in a court of the State of New York was necessary
to fix the liability of a stockholder under section 10 of the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

under consideration, yet the same court, in the case of Shillington v. Howland, 53 N. Y. 371, held that in an action brought
to charge a defendant as stockholder in a company organized
under the same law, an adjudication in bankruptcy of the company excused a compliance with the condition which required a
suit to be brought against the company within a year after the
maturity of the debt, and a judgment to be recovered and an
execution to be issued thereon and returned unsatisfied. We
see no reason why we should not follow this decision, and it is
conclusive of the questibn under consideration.
The object of section 24 was to compel the creditor to exhaust the assets of the company before seeking to enforce the
liability of the stockholder. When the declaration shows that
this was done, and that a literal performance of the condition
would have been vain and fruitless, the performance of the
condition may well be held to have been excused.
Lastly, it is objected that the declaration sets out a case
which should have been prosecuted in equity, and not at law.
There is no ground for this objection to rest on. In the cases
of Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520, Terry v. Tubman, 92 U. S.
156, to which we are referred in its support, the liability of
the stockholders was in proportion to the stock held by them.
Each stockholder was, therefore, only liable for his proportion
of his debts. This proportion could only be ascertained upon
an account of the debts and stock, and a pro rata distribution
of the indebtedness among the several stockholders. This, the
court held, could only be done by a suit in equity.
But in this case the statute makes every stockholder individually liable for the debts of the company for an amount equal
to the amount of his stock. This liability is fixed, and does
not depend on the liability of other stockholders. There is no
necessity for bringing in other stockholders or creditors. Any
creditor who has recovered judgment against the company and
sued out an execution thereon, which has been returned unsatisfied, may sue any stockholder, and no other creditor can.
Such actions are maintained without objection in the courts of
New York, under section 10 of the statute relied on in this
case. Shllin ton v. Howland, 53 N. Y. 371; TVeeke v. Suydam,

TER. HAUTE & INDIANA R. R. CO. v. STRUBLE. 381
Syllabus.

64 N. Y. 173; ITandy v. -Daer,
89 N. Y. 334; Bocky 3Mountain
IYat. Bank v. Bliss, Id. 338.
We have considered all the objections made to the declaration. In our opinion-none of them are well founded.
Our conclusion is, therefore, that the declaration was sufficient, and it follows that
The judgment tf toe ci'cui court must be reversed, and the
cause remandedforfurtheryroceedings in conformty with

thlis opinion.
Case No. 122, Jon I Adams d Co. v. Adna C. Conn, is in
all respects similar to the case just decided, and was submitted
on the same arguments and briefs. The judgment in that case
must, therefore, be re.versed, and the cause remanded to the circuit

court for further proceedings, in conformity with the opinion
announced in the case No. 121.

TERRE HAUTE & INDIANA RAILWAY COMPANY
v. STRUBLE.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN" DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued November 14th, 1883.-Decided November 26th, 1883.

Contract-Practice-Review.
1. A railway company, in consideration of the undertakings of S. in a written
agreement, agreed therein to send all live stock coming over its road to
East St. Louis, to the stock yard of S. at that place, except such as
should be specially ordered otherwise by shippers or owners, and to pay
him therefor an agreed rate for loading and an agreed rate for unloading:
Held, that this agreement applied to all live stock shipped in the ordinary course of the company's business over its road, the direction of
which was not otherwise specially ordered by shippers, and which it was
possible for the company to have loaded at the stock yard of S. ; and, that
on a breach on the part of the company being proved, without fault on
the part of S., he could recover from the company damages in consequence of stock being sent by the company to another stock yard at that
terminus.
2. The action of the court below in denying a motion for a new trial is not
subject to review.

