OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT -COMPANY & Others v.
UPPER POTOMAC STEAMOAT COMPAINY.
POTOMAC STEAMBOAT COMPETY '. INLAND AND
SEABOARD COASTING COMPANY.
Y

FROM TIM SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Argued November 26th, 27th, 28th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Deed-Districtof Columbia-arland-RiparlanRighs-StatutesVirginia-Washington, City of.
1. In.1791, one Young, then ownbig a tract of land containing about 400
acres on the Potomac, conveyed the same in fee simple with all its ap'purtenances to two trustees (who were also trustees with similar trusts,
for other owners of land), as a site for the City of Washington. The
trust provided that the lands laid out in streets, squares, etc., should be
for the use of the United States forever, and that a fair and equal
division of the remainder should be -made. In 1794 the plan of the city
was adopted and promulgated. On this plan a public street called Water
street,was represented as laid out on the margin of the river over the
tract so conveyed by Young; but this street was not in fact constructed
until after the close of the late civil war. 'In 1796 the trustees conveyed
the tract so deeded to them (including Young's), "in fee simple subject
to trusts yet remaining," to commissioners appointed to receive title,
under the act of July 16th, 1790, entitled, "An Act for establishing the
temporary and permanent seat of the government of the United States."
1 Stat. 180. In 1797 the commissioners, in execution of the trust, and
in pursuance of a statute of the State of Maryland, recorded certificates
in their record book, which stated that one tract, dei6ned by metes and
bounds, had been allotted to Young, and that another tract, in like manner defined, had been allotted to the United States. Each of these tracts
was on the northerly side of Water street, and was described as bounded
on that street. The title to both became subsequently vested in the
plaintiffs : Held, That these transactions were equivalent to a conveyance by Young to the United States in fee simple of all his lands; and of
a conveyance back by the United States, of the first tract described by
metes and bounds, leaving in the United States the title in fee simple to
the other ti-act and to the strip known as Water street. Van N7ress v.
Th.e ayor, &c., of Washington, 4 Pet. 282, approved and followed.
2. After the execution of the commissioners' certificate in 1797, allotting to
Young a tract of land on the north side of Water street and to the
United States another tract, also on the north side of that street, no
wharfage rights remained connected with the use and enjoyment of those

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CQ. 673
Statement of Facts.lots, and not being thus connected with them, such right was not annexed as an incident to them, so as to become appurtenant to them.
8. The agreement of March 28th, 1785, between Virginia and Maryland, provided that citizens of each should have full property in the shores of the
Potomac and the privilege of constructing wharves and improvements.
The Maryland act of December 19th, 1791, authorized the commissioners
appointed under the act of July 16th, 1790, 1 Stat. 130, to license the
building of wharves on the Potomac: .feld, That the United States,
as owners in fee of Water street in the city of Washington, were inthe
enjoyment of all the rights which were attached to that property by this
compact and by this legislation, or which belonged or appertained to it
by virtue of general principles of law relating to riparian rights. The
authorities in this court, and other federal courts, and in State courts and
the courts of Great Britain, on that subject examined.
4. The act of the legislature of )Iaryland of December 28th, 1793, under which
the commissioners entered in their record book the certificate to Young
and to the United States, provided that they should " be sufficient and
effectual to vest the legal estate in the purchasers, without any deed or
formal conveyance :" Held, That parol evidence is only admissible to
contradict, vary, or explain them, when it would have been admissible
if they had been formal conveyances.
5. Chesapeake & Ohio Canal Co. v. Union Bank of Georgetouw, 5 Cranch C.
C. 509, cannot be regarded as the law of the District of Columbia on the
point involved in this case. In so far as in conflict with it, the court in
that case did not follow Van 'Vessv. .3fayor, &c., of Washinglon,.4 Pet.
232, or Zennedy v. Washington, 3 Cranch 0. C. 595.

Bill in equity to restrain the defendants below, who are the
appellees in this court, from constructing piers and docks on
the Potomac, at the city of Washingto.
The plaintiffs, being
in possession of a tract of land bounded by Water street, which
was on the margin of the river, claimed that the riparian rights
on the side of the street opposite to their tract attached to it.
The defendants denied the plaintiffs' title to such riparian rights,
and justified their own acts under a license from the commissioners of the District of Columbia, who claimed title to the
river front and riparian rights through deeds vesting the fee
simple of Water street, in the city of Washington, in the United
States.
The injunction prayed for was refused below. The plaintiff

appealed.
.f3. Cbn way Robinson and .31r. John Selden for the appel.

lants.
VOL.

cix-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Mi. William. Birnwy and .'.
appellees.

Yathaniel TMilon for the

MR. JusTioE N .L&'Ews delivered the opinion of the court.

These two cases were heard together in the court below and
in this court. They involve the same questions and depend
upon facts substantially the same, appearing in a single record.
The claim of the appellants, who were plaintiffs below, is
that, being owners and in possession, in the first case, of square
No. 42, and, in the second, of lot No. 13 in square No. 504,
on the plan of the city of Washington, they are entitled to the
•exclusive right to make and use Wharves and other similar improvements in the Potomac River opposite or in front of these
lots, which are separated from it by Water street; and the object of the bills is to restrain the defendants, by a perpetual injunction, from intruding-upon'and disturbing the enjoyment of
their right. This claim is denied by the defendants, who assert
an adverse right under public authorities acting in the niame of
the United States. This issue was determined by the court
below in favor of the defendants by decrees dismissing the
bills, which decrees these appeals bring before us for review.
The plaintiffs derive title to the lots mentioned by. mesne
conveyances from Notley Young, who was the original proprietor of a tract of about four hundred acres, known as the
Dudington Pastures, lying upon the Potomac River, and which
-becamepart of the site of the city of Washington, extending
along the river from at or near the mouth of Tiber Creek to
the grounds of the United States Arsenal.
The seventh clause of the compact between Virginia and
Maryland of March 28th; 1185, declared that:
"The citizens of each State respectively shall have full property
in the shores of the Potowmack River adjoining their lands, with
all enoluments and advantages thereunto belonging, and the privilege of making and carrying out wharves and other improvements, so as not to obstruct or' injure the navigation of the
river."

POTOMSC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 675
Opinion of the Cour.
The nature and extent of- this compact were considered by
this court in Georgdown v. Alexandria Canal Co., 12 Petets,
91, where it was declared to be a compact between the States
as such, to which the citizens of neither were parties, and, being subject to the will of the States, as to any changes in its
stipulations, it was equally under the control of Congre~s, after
the cession. It was provided, however, by the act of July 16tb,
1790, 1 Stat. 130, accepting the District of Columbia as the
seat of the government of the United States,, "that the
operation of the laws of the State within such district shall
not be affected by this acceptance; until the time fixed for
the removal of the government thereto, and until Congress
shall otherwise by law provide."
It was therefore provided by the general assembly of Maryland, by an act of December 19th, 1791, sec. 12, that the
commissioners of the District, appointed by the President under
the act of Congress of July 16th, 1790,
"Shall, from time to time, until Congress shall exercise the
jurisdiction and government within the said territory, have power
to license the building of wharves in the waters of the Potomac
and the Eastern Branch, adjoining the said city, of the materials,
in the manner, and of the extent they may judge. durable, convenient, and agreeing with general order. But no license shall be
granted to one to build a wharf before. the land of another, nor
shall any wharf be built in the said waters without license as
aforesaid; and if any wharf shall be built without such license,
or different therefrom, the same is hereby declared a common
nuisance." Davis, 64.
In pursuance of this authority, the commissioners adopted
the following regulation on the subject, dated July 20th,
1795:
"That all the proprietors of water lots are permitted to wharf
and build as far out into the river Potomac and the Eastern
Branch as they think convenient and proper, not injuring or'interrupting navigation, leaving a space, wherever the general plan
of the streets in the city requires it, of equal breadth with those
streets, which, if made by an individual holding the adjacent prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

erty shall be subject to his separate occupation and use until the
public shall reimburse the expense of making such street, and
where no street or streets intersect said wharf, to leave a space of
sixty feet for a street at the termination of every three hundred
feet of made ground ; the buildings on said wharves or made
ground to be subject to the general regulations for buildings ii the
city of Washington, as declared by the President. Wharves to be
built of such materials as the -proprietors may elect." Proceedings
of Commissioners, 1791 to 1795, 408, 409.

This regulation was submitted to President Washington,
who direct"d it to be published, by letter dated at Mt. Vernon,
September18th, 1795.

In the mean time, lNotley Yoimg and the other proprietors
whose proposal had been aboepted, by distinct conveyances,
but in like form, had conveyed to Thomas Beall and John 1M.
Gantt, as trustees, the several tracts of land which were to
constitute the teritory of the city of Washington. That of
Notley Young was dated June 29th, 1791, and conveyed, in
fee-simple, "'all the lknds of him, the said Notley Young,"
therein described, to have and to jhold, "with their appurtenances," in consideration 'of the uses and trusts" therein mentioned, and "to and for the special trusts following, and no
other."
,That all the lands hereby bargained and sold; or such part thereof as may be thought necessary or proper to be laid out, together
with other lands within the said limits, for a federal city, with
such streets, squares, parcels, and lots as the President of the
U
United States for the time being shall approve ; and that the said
Thomas Beall, of George, and John M. Gantt, or the survivor of
them, or*the heirs of such survivor, shall convey to the commissioners for the time being, appointed by virtue of the act of Congress, entitled ' An Act for establishing the temporary and permanent seat of the government of the United States,' and their
successors, for the use, of the United States forever, all the said
streets and such of the said. squares, parcels, and lots as the President shall deem proper, for.the use of the United States ; and that,
as to the residue of said lots into which the said lands hereby bargained and sold shall have been laid off and divid.ed, that a fair

POTOMAC STEAMIBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 677
Opinion of the Court.
and equal division of them shall be made; and if no other mode of
div sion shall be agreed on, by consent of the said Notley Young
amna the commissioners for the time being, then such residue of the
said lots shall be divided, every other lot alternate to the said Notley
Young; and it shall in that event be determined by lot whether the
said Notley Young shall begin with the lot of the least number laid
out on the said lands or the following number ; and all the said lots
which may in any manner be divided or assigned to the said Notley
Young shall thereupon, together with any part of the said bargained and sold lands, if any, which shall not have been laid out
on the said city, be conveyed by the said Thomas Beall of George
and John M. Gantt, or the survivor of them, or the heirs of such
survivor, to him, the said Notley Young, his heirs and assigns,"
&c.
It was also stipulated therein, that the said Beall and Gantt
should, at the request of the President of the United States,
convey all or any of said lands which should not then have
been conveyed in execution of the trusts aforesaid to such per.
sons as he should appoint, in fee simple, subject to the trusts
remaining to be executed, and to the end that the same might
be perfected. Accordingly, on October 3d, 1796, the President
requested Beall and Gantt to convey all the unconveyed residue
of the land granted by Notley Young to Scott, Thornton, and
White, then commissioners, appointed under the act of July
16th, 1790, "in fee simple, subject to the trusts yet remaining
to be executed ;" and on November 30th, 1796, Beall and
Gantt accordingly conveyed by deed, in fee simple, to the
commissioners last named.
In the mean time, however, the plan of the city had been
adopted and promulgated, on maps of which were laid out
the squares, lots, public grounds and streets; and, on October
18th, 1794, a division of the property had been made between
Notley Young and the commissioners, in execution of the
trusts of the deed from him to Beall and Gantt, by which
square No. 504: fell to the public, and square No. 472 to
Notley Young.
No deed was made by Beall and Gantt to Notley Young for
square No. 47T2, but on January 13th, 1797, the commissioners

OCTOBER TEAM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

recorded in their book', which by law they were authorized to
-keepfor that purpose, their certificate that they and Young hail
agreed "that the whole of the.¢ame square shall remain to the
said Notley Young, agreeably to the deed of trust concerning
lands in the said city," and attached thereto a plat of the square,
with boundaries, as follows: "Bounded on the north by L
street, four hundred and seventy-nine feet four inches; the
,south by M street south, three hundred and fifty-seven feet
three inches; the east by 6th street west, two hundred and
eighty-nine feet ten inches; th: southwest by Water street,
three hundred and fourteen feet three inches," as per return
dated Deceinber 24th, 1793.
A similar entry and record were made in respect to square
504, the plat of which shows a subdivision of the entire square
:into lots, of which five, lot No. 13 being one of them, front on
Water street, running back to an alley which separates them
from all the other lots in the square.
The legal title to this and other squares allotted to the public
-passed to the commissioners of the District by deed froiu Beall
and Gantt ; and the legal estate to square 472 and the others
allotted to Notley Young vested in him in fee simple, by virtue
of the-certificates recorded in the commissioners' book, under
a law of Maryland of December 28th, 1793, Burch's Dig. 224,
which gave 6ffect to it, "according to the import of such
certificates."
A similar- certificate was made and recorded October 18th,
1794, to the effect that James Greenleaf had become the purchaser of 857 lots, for which he had fully paid, the legal title to
which in fee simple had vested in him, and among them is
enumerated square 504. The plaintiffs claim lot 13 in that
square under Greenleafs title.
, It has been observed that -both squares No. 472 and No. 504
are bounded on the southwest by Water street. This street
was designated on the adopted plan of the city as occupying
the whole line of the river front, and separating the line of the
squares from the river for the entire distance from 14th street
to the arsenal grounds. It is alleged in the bill in respect to
this street that there was trabed on the map of the city

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 679
Opinion of the Court.
"but a single line denoting its general course and direction;
that the dimensions of said Water street, until the adoption, on
the 22d day of February, 1839, of the certain plan of one William
Elliott, as hereinafter more particularly mentioned, were never
defined by law; and that the said Water street was never, in fact,
laid out and made in the said city until some time after the close of
the recent civil war; that before the commencement of said civil
war one high bluff or cliff extended along the bank of said river,
in said city of Washington, from Sixth street west to 14th
street west ; that to the edge thereof the said bluff or cliff, between the points aforesaid, was in the actual use and enjoyment
of the owners of the land which it bounded towards the said river ;
that public travel between the two streets last above mentioned,
along the said river, could only be accomplished by passing
over a sandy beach, and then only when the tide was low;
and that what is now the path of Water street, between the two
streets aforesaid, was and has been made and fashioned by cutting
down the said cliff or bluff and filling in the said stream adjacent
thereto."
These allegations, in substance, are admitted in the answer
to be true, with the qualification that the width of the street
was left undefined because it constituted the whole s.ace between the line of the squares and the river, whatever that might
be determined to be from time to time, but that the commissioners, on March 22d, 1796, made an order directing it to be
laid out eighty feet in width from square 1079 to square east'of
square 1025, and to "run out the squares next to the water and
prepare them for division," and that it was so designated on
maps of the city in 1803. If not, the inference is all the
stronger that the whole space south of the line of the lots was
intended to be the property and for the use of the public.
Ba'clay v. Th''ell's le.sees, 6 Pet. 498. In ]2owan's Ee'rs v.
Portland,8 B. Monroe, 2,32-239, that inference was declared to
be the legal result of such a state of facts. It is quite certain
that such a space was desigonated on the official map of the
city as originally adopted. the division and sale of the squares
and lots being made in reference to it. What the legal effect
of that fact is we shall hereafter inquire, and while we do not

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

consider it to be qualified by the circumstances set forth as to
the actual history of the street as made and used, they perhaps
sufficiently account for the doubt and confusion in which the
questions of right brought to issue in this litigation seem for so
long a period to have been involved.
The transaction between lNotley Young and the public authorities, as evidenced by the documents and circumstances
thus far set forth, was equivalerit in its 'result to a conveyance
by him to the United States in fee simple of all, his land described, with its appurtenances, and a conveyance back by the
United States to him of square No. 472, and to Greenleaf of
square No. 504, bounded and described as above set forth,
leaving in the United States an estate in fee simple, absolute
for all purposes,. in the strip of land designated as Water street,
intervening between the line of the squares as laid out and the
Potomac river.
The very point as to the nature of this title' was decided
in the case of 'Fan Ness v. DTie -Wayor,&c., of Waidgton,

4 Pet. 232.

It was there said by.jMr. Justice Story, deliv-

ering the opinion of the' court, p. 285:
"Here we have a solemn instrument embodying the final intentions and agreements of the parties, without any allegations of
mistake, and we are to construe that instrument according to the
legal import of its terms. Now, upon such legal import, there do
.not seem grounds for any reasonable doubt. The streets and public squares are declared to be conveyed 'for the use of the United
States forever.' These are the very words which by law are required to vest an absolute unconditional fee-simple in the United
States. They are the appropriate terms of art, if we may so say,
to express an unlimited use in the government. If the government were to purchase a lot of 'land for any'general purpose, they
are the very words which the conveyance would adbpt, in order
to grant an unlimited fee to the use of the government. There
are no other words or references in the instrument, which control
in any manner the natural meaning of them, There are no objects avowed on the face of it which imply any limitation. How,
then, c~n the court defeat the legal meaning and resort to a conjectural intent?"

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 681
Opinion of the Court.
It was accordingly decided in that case that the ownership
of the land over which the streets in the city of Washington
had been laid out on the original plan '-as vested by the deeds
of the proprietors in the United States so completely and unconditionally that Congress might lawfully dispose of it to private
persons, or otherwise convert it to any use whatever.
It was also decided in that case that the legal effect of the
final instrument which defined and declared 'the intentions and
rights of the parties, could not be modified or controlled by
proof of any preliminary negotiations or agreement. "The
general rule of law is," said the court, "that all preliminary
negotiations and agreements are to be deemed merged in the
final settled instruments executed by the parties, unless a clear
mistake be established." This applies not.only to the formal
deeds from Notley Young to Beall and Gantt, and from them
to the commissioners, but also to the certificates and plats made
and recorded by the latter which, under the Maryland act of
December 28th, 1793, Burch's Dig. 224, "shall be sufficient and
effectual to vest the legal estate in the purchasers, their heirs
and assigns, according to the import of such certificates, without any deed or formal conveyance." It is under and according
to these certificates, granted to Notley Young and Greenleaf,
that the plaintiffs derive their title; and parol evidence to contradict, vary, or explain them, is no more to be admitted than
if they were formal conveyances. Filliamsv. Ingell, 21 Pick.
288.
For this reason we reject, as without legal value, the book
called "Division Book No. 1," referred to as showing a list of
the squares and lots assigned to Notley Young in the division,
and containing an entry as to square 472 as having a water
front of 314 feet, 3 inches. It is not well authenticated as a
contemporary and original book, and is not one which it was
the official duty of the commissioners to keep. However convenient, therefore, it may be as a book of reference for examiners of title infacilitating searches, it has not the quality of a
public record.
What effect upon the riparian rights of Notley Young would
have resulted from' thd creation of a perpetual- easement f6r a

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

public way over Water street by a grant to the 'United States
to that use alone, the title and right of possession in the soil
for all other purpos s remaining in the original proprietor, it is
unnecessary to discuss. The decisive circumstance in the present case is, that the United States became the riparian proprietor, and succeeded to all the riparian rights of- Notley Young,
15y becomning the owner in fee simple absolute of the strip of
land that adjoined the river, and intervened between it and
what remained to the original proprietor, Kotley Young, after
that conveyance; and the successors to his title had no other
or greater rights in Water street, or the land on which it was
laid out and eventually made, than any other individual members of the public. While it remained a street it was subject to
their use as a highway merely, over whi-ch to pass and repass,
and without the consent of the United States as proprietor was
subject to no private use whatever. The right of wharfage remained appurtenant to it, because, as land adjacent to the river,
that right was annexed to it by law, and could be exercised on
it br the proprietor; but was severed, by the severance of
the title, from the remainder of the original tract, to the whole
of wghich it had formerly pertained.
In reference to the squares and lots lying north of the street,
it may be said of the wharfage right claimed, as was said in
Linthicum v. Bay, 9 Wall. 241, 243, "It was in no way connected with the enjoyment or use of the lot, and a right not
thus connected cannot be annexed as an incident to land, so as
to become appurtenant to it."
A riparian proprietor, in the language of Mr. Justice Miller
in Yate8 v. Xfilwaikee, 10 Wall. 497-504, is one "whose land
is bounded by a navigable stream;;" and among the rights he
is entitled to as such, are "access to the navigable part of the
river from the front of his lot, the right to make a landing,
wharf, or pier for his own use or for the use of the public, subject to such general rules and regulations as the legislature
may see proper to impose for the protection of the rights of
the public, whatever those may be." Weber v. Iarbor Comisniwor8, 18 Wall. 57.
In Massachusetts. where it is held that, by virtue of the

POTO3AC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 683'
Opinion of the Court.

ordinance of 1647, if lands be described as bounded by the
sea, the grantee will hold the lands to low-water mark, so that
lie does not hold more than one hundred rods below high
water mark; Store, v. Freeman, 6 Mass. 435; Commonwealth
v. C'larlestown, 1 Pick. 179; yet, it is also held, that where
an ancient location or grant by the proprietors of a township
bounded the land granted by a way, which way adjoined the
sea shore, the ordinance did not pass the flats on the otheFiide
of the way to the grantee. Codman v. TVinslow, 10 Maiss.146. And in Maine it was dckled that a grantee, bounded by
high-water mark, 'is not a riparian proprietor ior within the
ordinance. Layish v. Bangor Bank, 8 Greenleaf, 85. In New
Jersey it is spoken of as "the right of an owner of lands upon
tide waters to maintain his adjacency to it and to profit by
this advantage," Stevenson v. Pdkrson, &c., R. 1. Co., 5
Vroom, 532-556, and as a right "in, the riparian owner to preserve and improve the connection of his property .with the
navigable water."
Keyport Steamboat,'c., Co. v. F2armers'
Tranportation Co., 3 C. E. Green, 516. The riparian right:
"is the result of that full dominion which every one has over"
his own land, by which he is authorized to keep all others from
coming upon it except upon his own terms." Rowan'8 E'r8
v. Portland,8 B. Monroe, 232. It is "a form of enjoyment
of the land and of the river in connection with the land."
Lord. Cairns in 1yon v. Fi8kmonger'8 Co., I Appeal Cas. 662,
672. "It seems to us clear," said Pollock, Q. B.,'in Stockport
Water Worb Co. v. Potter,3 Hurl. & Colt. 300-326, "that the
rights which a riparian proprietor has with respect to the
water are entirely derived from his possession of land abutting.
on the river. If he grants away a portion of his land so abutting, then the grantee becomes a riparian proprietor and has
similar rights."
No inference in such a case arises against the riparian right
of the grantee because the land has been granted for a -street.
On the contrary, as was said in Barney v. Keokuk, 94: U. S.
324-340, "a street bordering on the liver, as this did, according to the plan of the town adopted by the decree of partition,
must be regarded as intended to be used for the purposes of

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.

6pinion of the Court.
access-to the river and the usual accommodations of navigation
in such a conne~tion ;" that is, as it appears by the decision in
that case, to be used by the public for such purposes, as well
a highway, in contradistinction to the exclusive right of
one claiming riparian rights as owner of the soil. Godfrey v.
T7 City of Alton, 12 Ill. 29. "If the city," said this court in
-New Orleans v. The United States, 10 Pet. 662-717, "can claim
the original dedication to the river, it has "ill
the rights and
privileges of a riparian proprietor."
lNotley Young and the successor to his title had no property
in the street, not even the right to insist that it should be maintained as such. The United States held its title to the land
over which it was laid out, for its own use, and not in trust for
any person or for any purpose. In that respect the case difters
from ?ailrbad Company v. Schurmeir, '1 Wall. 2T2, where it
was held that, as the city held the title to the street only in
trust for the purposes of its dedication as such, the title remained in the original proprietor for all other purposes, and
with a property right in its use as a street for his adjacent land.
And it is immaterial that the ground laid out as a street was
not in a condition to be used as a street, or that much labor
was required to place it in that situation, or that, in fact, it had
not been used as such for a long period of time. Barclay v.
Howells Lesse'e,
6 Pet. 498-505; Boston v. -Lecraw, 17 How.
426. "A man cannot lose the title to his lands," it is said in
this case"' by leaving them in their natural state without improvement, or forfeit them by non-user," p. 436. .tflJfurray v. Baltimore, 54 Md. 103.
This denies no right that can be claimed by virtue of the compact between Virginia and Maryland of 1785; for that secured
to their citizens "the privilege of making and. carrying out
wharves," as to the shores of the Potomac, only and so far as
they were "adjoining their lands," and such had always been
the law of Maryland,. notwithstanding the language of the act
of 1745,ch. 9, se. 10, which was held to authorize the improvements therein spoken of, to be made by improvers in fropt of
their own lots only. .Dugan v. Baltimore, 5 Gill & Johns.
357; Won'8 Lessee v. Inloev, 11 Gill & Johns. 351. The

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER'POT. S. CO. 685
Opinion of the Court.

"full property in the shores of Potowmack river," spoken of in
the compact, if it is not to be taken as a 8eizin of the lahd covered with water, but a right of occupation merely, properly
termed a franchise, as said by Hosmer, C. J., in East Haven v.
Hemingway, 7 Conn. 186-202, must be appurtenant to the land,
the conveyance of which carries it as an incident; otherwise, if
it implies an ownership in the soil of the shore betwveen high
and low-water mark, as land, it could not pass as an 'appurtenance by a deed conveying the adjoining land; for rand
cannot be appurtenant to land. HTarrisv. lliott, 10 Pet. 2554; Storer v. Freeman, 6 Mass. 435; Cmmonwealth v..Alger,
7 Cush. 53. And in this view the title of the jlaintiffs fails,
because they show no conveyance of the locus in quo, as parcel,
and claim it only as an appurtenance.
An act of Maryland of January 22d, 1785, authorizing an
addition to Georgetown of land, according to a plat and upon
conditions prescribed by the proprietors, confirms this view of
the state of the general law in Maryland, by making express
statutory provision "that the proprietors of the lots fronting on
the north side of Water street shall have and enjoy the exclusive right to the ground and water on the south side of their respective lots for the sole purpose of making wharves," &c. Theinference is irresistible, that this was meant to give statutory
sanction to an exception from the general rule. The same comment applies to the case of Mazh ou .stv. Baitnmore, 37 Md.
199, to which we are referred. There the street or highway
that intervened between the wharf and the water was, by virtue
of the statutes under which the work was executed,.made part
of the wharf itself, and subject to the right of the lot owner
for the purposes of a wharf, and to that extent it was held he
had a right of property in it, of which he could not be deprived
for public use, except upon due compensation made.
It is not denied and never was questioned that, as to the.
streets whose termini abutted on the river, the water front was
subject to the riparian rights of the public for use as wharf
or dock or landing place. On what principle can a distinction
be drawn between that case and the one in hand, where the
line of the river constitutes the side of the street running along

OCTOBER TERMI, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the shore? The rights of the public are the same; especially
where, as here, it was the owner of the soil of the street, as so
much land, for all purposes. The true inference to in drawn
from the plan of laying out such a street seems to u, to be to
secure to the public the very rights here in controversy, and to
prevent private monopoly of the landing plues for tra4e and
commerce. For, as was said 'in -Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black,
1-32:
"Piers or landing places and even wharves may be private,""or, in other words, the owner may have the right to the exclusive enjoyment of the structure, and to exclude all other persons
from its use ;" the question whether they are so, or are open to
public use on payment of reasonable compensation as wharfage,
depending in such cases "upon several considerations; involving
the purpose for which they were built, the uses *to which they
have been applied, the place where located, and the nature and
character of the structure."
Undoubtedly Notley Young, prior to the founding of the
city and the conveyance of his land for that purpose, was entitled to enjoy his riparian rights for his private ues and to
the exclusion of all the world besides. It can hardly be possible
that the establishment of the city upon the plan adopted, including the highway on the river bank, could have left the
right of establishing public wharves, so essential t6 a great
centre of population and wealth, a matter altogether of private
ownership; for even as to squares and lots that fell to the
public on the division, it is equally contended by the appellants
that those from whom they claim, with the lots also purchased
the public riparian right appurtenant thereto, with power to
convert it to private use.
It was for this reason held by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, in the case of Rowan'8 Ex'ro v. PorlZnd,8 B. Monroe,
232, that where land along the river bank in a town had been
laid out and dedicated by the proprietor for a public street,
the dedication for that purpose carried with it, as a necessary
incident, the right in the public to build whaxves and charge
wharfage for the use thereof, to the exclusion of the original

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 687
Opinion of the Court.

proprietor and his alienees of any private right of the same
character.
To the same effect is the judgment of the same court in
.AW'wi)ort v. Tayhws Exm, 16 B. Monroe, 699-804.
Vrarious considerations, however, are urged upon us in arguinent" in support of the appellants' claim, which, so far as we
deem important, and the limits of this opinion will permit, we
will now notice in order.
1. It is urged that the construction of the rights of the parties which deprive the claimants under Notley Young and
Greenleaf of the rights of wharfage opposite their property
on the north side of Water street, in effect gives to the United
States the entire water front on the Potomac river, without an
equivalent, and thus violates that equality in the division which
was expressly stipulated for in Notley Young's deed to Beall
and Gantt.
But there is no dispute as to the division that was actually
made, and each party received, so far as the conveyances are
concerned, precisely what he agreed to.take and was satisfied
with. The supposed inequality arises from a construction of
law upon the transaction, as it is admitted or proved to have
taken place, and its legal effect is not dependent upon its actual
results. The division, which it was agreed should be fair and
equal, was of the lots into which the lands should be laid off;
the grantor was to receive back any lands not so laid off, and
the streets were to be the property of the United State6, and,
of course, with whatever appurtenant rights belonged to them
as streets, or to the land over which they were laid out.
2. It is insisted, however, that the contemporaneous construction put by the parties themselves upon their own acts,
requires a different conclusion.
It is impracticable to refer specifically to the numerous letters, maps, plans, documents, and records of different descrip-tions, which the diligent research of counsel on both sides has
compiled and placed in the record of these cases, as throwing
light on the history of the transaction, and as evidence of the
views of the actors in it. We can notice but a few, with the
general remark that a careful consideration of everything bear-

OCTOBER- TERM, 1s83.
Opinion of the Court.

ing on the point to which our attention has been called, has
failed to satisfy us that the conclusion reached, as the legal
effect of the documents of title, is inconsistent with the actual
intentions of the parties.
In a letter to the President, explaining their regulations of
July 20th, 1795, the connissioners distinctly say, "that no
wharves, except by the public, can be erected on the waters
opposite the public appropriations, or on the streets at right
angles with the water;" and that it is "proprietors of property lying on the water" that are to be permitted to build
wharves. It -is possible, indeed, that the commissioners did
not, at that time, contemplate that a street laid out along the
margin of the river, as Water street was, would be on the same
footing with what they deemed to be "public appropriations;"
and yet there is nothing in their communication inconsistent
with that result, and the idea is clearly embraced in it when
we apply the decision in the Van Ness case to its terms.
And their view to that effect is strongly implied in what they
wrote to James Barry on October 5th, 1795. He had written
to them, saying that,
"As Georgia avenue meets the water at 3d street, and can only
begin again at the other side of the water, I request permission
to erect a store or buildings, agreeably to the regulations of the
water property of square 771, without adverting to the imaginary
direction of Georgia avenue, which runs across my wharf, and
would tptally render useless said wharf."
The commissioners replied, saying:
"We think with you that an imaginary continuation of Georgia
avenue through a considerable depth of tide water, thereby cutting off the water privilege of square 771 to wharf to the channel,
too, absurd to form a part of the plan of the city of Washington;
that it never was a part of. the plan that such streets should be
continued through .the water, and that your p5urchase in square
771 gives a perfect right to wharf to any extent in front or south
of the property purchased by you, not injurious to navigation,
and to erect buildings thereupon, agreeably to the regulations."

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 689
Opinion of the Court.

It is plainly to be inferred from this, that if, as was the case
of Water street, the street was laid down on the map as a
continuous street, abutting on the river, and called for as the
south boundary of the lots fronting on it, it would have been
regarded by them as forming part of the plan of the city,
"thereby cutting off the water privilege" from the lots between
which and the river it intervened.
But on June 25th, 1798, the commissioners had occasion to
declare themselves explicitly on thevery point, in a letter to
Nicholas King of that date, in answer to an inquiry froma him
in behalf of Robert Peter, requesting "t 9 lmow the extent of
wharfing and water privilege attached to what was called
water lots and assigned to him on division." They replied as
follows:
"Sin : We are favored with yours of the 22d instant, in behalf
of Mr. Peter. When the commissioners have proceeded to divide
a square with a city proprietor, whether water or other property,
they have executed all the powers vested in them to act upon the
subject. It appertains to the several courts of the State and the
United States to determine upon the rights which such division
may give. Any decision by us on the subject would be extrajudicial and nugatory. Of this, no doubt Mr. Peter, if applied to,
would have informed you.
"With respect to square No. 22, we do not conceive that it is
entitled to any water privilege, as a street intervenes between it
and the water ; but, as there is some high ground between the
water street and the water, we have no objection to laying out a
new square between Water street and the channel, and divide
such square when laid out, so as to make it as beneficial to Mr.
Peter and the public as circumstances will admit."
A transaction between John Templeman and the commissioners on January 24th, 1794, is relied on as showing the rule
acted upon in cases like the present. The commissioners, it is
stated in the record of their proceedings of that date, sold to
Templeman nine lots in square No. 8, and delivered him a certificate with the following indorsement thereon:
"It is the intention of this sale that the ground across the street
VOL. cxx.

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

next to the water, with the privilege of wharfing beyond the
street in front and of the breadth of the lots, pass with them
agreehbly to the general idea in similar instances."
On January 15th, 1798, the commissioners, it is recited in
the same record of that date, executed a deed to Templeman
of the lots named,
"Together with all the land in front from 27th street to river
Potomac, with all rights of wharfing thereon, which deed is given
by the request of Mr. Templeman in lieu of one dated the third
instant, with the additibn of lot 18 .in square No. 8, and the water
privilege in front of the lots conveyed in square No. 8, the former
deed having been first given up and cancelled."
It will be observed that this is open to the construction that
the wharfage privilege is appurtenant, not to the lots in square
No. 8, but to the land sold with them on the opposite side of
the street, and extending thence to the Potomac river, and
which, of course, is riparian property.
There was, in fact, no contemporary agreement of opinion
on the subject. On the contrary, there was diversity of view
and conflict of interest from the beginning. Various 'questions
arose relating to the mode in which the privilege of building
wharves should be exercised by those entitled to it, as well as
to what constituted "water lots," to which such privilege belonged, and some of them. were left undecided. On some of
these the opinion of Charles Lee, Attorney-General, was taken
on January '7th, 1799; some were investigated and reported
upon by a committee of the house of 'representatives on April
8th, 1802; some were discussed by Attorney-General Breckinridge in an opinion dated April 5th, 1806; the very matter of
vyhaifing privileges was the subject of an opinion by 31r. Wirt,
then attorney-general July 8th, 1818, in which he expressed
doubts as to the power of the commissioners to adopt the wharf
regulation of July 20th, 1195. The whole subject had been
presented in a very interesting manner, from the point of view
opposed to that expressed by the commissioners, but showing
that differences of opinion existed, by Nicholas King, in a letter

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 691
Opinion of the Court.
to the President, dated September 25th, 1803, and printed in
Burch's Digest, 351. In that communication he attributed the
doubt and uncertainty in which the matter was involved to the
action of the commissioners. "In laying off the city," he says,
"they stopped, as before observed, on the bank of the river,
sold the lots on the high ground with a water privilege, without defining either what the privilege is or the extent or direction in which the purchasers were tQ wharf and improve."
3. A special ground is maintained in behalf of the claim
under lot 13 in square 504 derived from Greenleaf.
On December 24th, 1793, the commissioners made a contract
in writing with Morris and Greenleaf for the sale and conveyance of 6,000 lots, 4,500 to lie southwest of Massachusetts avenue, and of them Morris and Greenleaf were to have "the
part of the city in Kotley Young's land." By this contract,
Morris and Greenleaf were excluded from selecting water lots,
but with this proviso:
"Provided, and it is hereby agreed by and between the parties
to-these presents, that the said Robert Morris and James Greenleaf are entitled to the lots in Notley Young's land, and of course
to the privileges of wharfing annexed thereto, and that lots adjoining the canal are not reckoned water lots."
From this it is sought to draw the inference that the lots in
Notley Young's land fronting on the north side of Water
street, have the appurtenant wharfing privileges claimed. But
there is no sufficient foundation for this conclusion. Even if
it were proper to resort to this preliminary agreement to supply
what is not contained in the subsequent grant, made in execution of it-which, we have seen, on the authority of the case of
'FanNes, we are not at liberty to do-still, there is nothing to
identify square 504 as a water lot out of the property of Kotley
Young. On October 18th, 1794, as has been stated, the commissioners transferred to Greenleaf, MQrris consenting, by certificate, 857 of these lots, including the one in question, and it
may be that many of them were water lots, but which of them
were is to be determined by the actual facts as to each, and not

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

by any general description. There were lots in Notley
Young's land as laid out, which answered the description without reference to those lying on the north side of Water Street.
That there was on the original plan of the city, and in the
division made between the original proprietors and the United
States, a classification of the squares and lots into "water lots,"
with riparian privileges, and the rest which were not, admits of
no dispute. The exact nature of the difference is well pointed
out in a very elaborate report made -May 25th, 1846, to the
common council of the city, by a committee appointed to investigate the subject, and their conclusions on the point seem
to us supported by the records' and documents .of the time.
They say:
"1Squares in the water with water lots were laid off by the commissioners and divided with the proprietors qn the navigable
waters of the Eastern Branch, Potomac, and Rock Creek. Water
lots were defined by metes and bounds on three sides, and were
estimated originally in the division, since in sales, and now for
assessment, by the front foot.
. . On the plan of the city all
the streets are delineated and all the property laid off. Every
owner of a lot in the city can tell by the description o it in his
deed what are its bounds on all sides ; if it has a water boundary, the
deed says so, and he has a right to wharf out into the river; if it
is bounded on all sides by the land, he has no such right, the right
to wharf belonging only to land bounded by the water."
.

If there are any individual cases that are exceptions to these
statements, nevertheless, their general accuracy we consider
well established, and that they manifest the original intention
of the parties to the transaction. Disputes undoubtedly arose,
some quite early, not so much as to what rights belonged to
"water lots," nor as to what properly constituted a "water
lot," but, in regard to particular localities, whether that character attached to individual squares and lots. In part, at least,
the uncertainty arose from the fact that the plan of the city,
as exhibited on paper, did not accurately correspond at all
points with the lines as" surveye and marked on the land.
Complaints of that description, and of designed departures

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 693
Opinion of the Court.

from the plan, seem to have been made. It is also true, we
think, that mistakes arose, as perhaps in the very case of the
lots on the north side of Water street, owing to the fact that
the street existed only on paper, and for a long time
remained an unexecuted project; property appearing to be
riparian, because lying on the water's edge, which, when the
street was actually made, had lost its river front. They were
thought to be "water lots," because appearing to be so in fact,
but were not so in law,' because they were bounded by the
street and not by the river.
4. The plaintiffs rely upon the decision of the former circuit
court for this district in the case of Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Co. v. Union Bank of Georgetown, 5 Cranch C. 0. 509,
decided in 1838. The question in that case was whether the
owner of lots in the city of Washington, lying on Rock Creek,
was entitled to compensation for a wharf and water privilege
which had been condemned for the use of the canal company.
It was contended on behalf of the latter that the owner of the
lots never had any water privilege as appurtenant to them, because they were cut off from the creek by 28th Street west,
and as the streets belonged to the United States, the water
privilege belonged to them also. It appeared that liarbaugh,
the owner, had built, maintained, and used a wharf in connection with the premises for thirty years without interruption,
and that no part of the bank of the creek and no dry land lay
west of the street., one half of which was in the creek. It also
appeared that he had bought from the United States, to whom
the lots had been allotted in the division of the square between
the public and the original proprietor, but the terms of the conveyance from the United States to Harbaugh are not stated.
It was argued for the owner that the streets were conveyed to
the United States only as highways, and did not deprive the
riparian proprietors of their water rights, and reference was
made to Nicholas King's letter in Burch's Digest, to the wharf
regulations of the commissioners in 1795, and to the Maryland
act of 1M91, ch. 45, § 12. The court, it is stated, held that the
title 6f I T.rbaugh to his wharf was good against the United
States, claiming under a private citizen (R. Peter), the original

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

proprietor, but gave no reasons for its opinion. No allusion
was made by counsel or court to the case of Van .N .v. .fayor,
&c., of Mashdngton, 4 Pet. 232, which had been decided in
1830, and in which the only point, in behalf of the prevailing
party made by counsel in the case in the circuit court, had been
ruled the other way. For that reason the judgment cannot be
considered as evidence of the law of this District upon the question involved.
The question of wharfage had been before the same court in'
another form in 1829, in the case of 1ennedy v. Co:poration
of TfasAington, 3 Qranch C. C. 595. That was an application
for a mdndamus to compel the corporation to make regulations
prescribing the manner of erecting private wharves within the
limits of the city, the showing in support of the motion for the
rule being that the relator was the purchaser of lot Yo. I in
square No. 329, and that he had applied to the authorities for
leave to build a wharf on that lot, and for directions in regard
to the plan anAd construction of the wharf, all of which they
had refused. 'Mr. Wallach, for the corporation, argued that the
power of the corporation over the. subject was within its discretion, which the court would not control. Mr. Jones, on the
same side, i6ferred to the opinion of N. King, in Burch's
Digest, argued that it appertained to the courts of the several
States and of the United States to determine upon these rights,
and contended that the power of the commissioners upon the
subject ceased to exist by the assumption of jurisdiction by
Congress, February o27th, 1801, 2 Stat. 103; the power given to
the corporation being only to regulate the manner of erecting
private wharves, not to limit the extent of them, or to interfere
with the right of owners of the land adjoining the river. The
court refused the mandamu8, it is said in the report, for the
reasons stated in the argument of Mr. Jones and Mr. Wallach.
5. The decision just referred to in the case of Kennedy's application for a man dammus, explains, probably, some subsequent
a;ction of the corporate'authorities on the subject of wharfage,
on which the appellants rely as evidence and confirmation of
their claims. One of the practical difficulties experienced in
the matter of building wharves arose from the fact that con-

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 695
Opinion of the Court.

flicts between privte claimants, and with acknowledged public rights at the termination of streets upon the river, would
exist, if the wharf rights were extended to the channel between lines prolonged from the sides of the lots. This followed partly because the general course of the channel, measured by its chord, was less by about 280 feet than that of the
shore line, and because the streets leading to the river were not
parallel with the line of the lots. If any system of improvement, public and private, should be adopted, it would reqaire
an adjustment of these conflicts, and the subject became a matter of discussion in the municipal government and in the public press. On April 2d, 1835, William Elliot, the surveyor of
the city, made a report on the subject to the mayor and corporation. In this report, he reviewed the history of the subject from the beginning, and concluded as follows:

"Therefore, from the foregoing authorities and arguments the
following facts are clearly deducible :
"11. That the channels of navigable- rivers of the United States
cannot be obstructed.
"2. That the openings for the east and west streets, lying on
the Potomac River and Rock Creek, must not be interrupted, but
must be carried to the channel in straight lines ; and the openings
for the north and south streets, facing on the Anacostia River,
must also be left free to the channel.
"3. That the power to regulate the docks, wharves, &c., is
vested in the corporation of Washington and the agents they may,
appoint.
"4. That no water privilege was specified or sold with the
squares or lots, and -that Water street was laid down on the
plans of the city exhibited at the sales, and would appear to be
the bounds of the lots and squares fronting the rivers.
"Having clearly established these powers and rights in the
corporation, the following system of wharves and docks is respectfully submitted for consideration :
"1. Let Water street be laid down conformably to the plan of
the city.
"2. Let openings of the streets be prolonged to the channel,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and in these openings, extending from Water street to the channel, let wharves be built upon piers.
"3. Let docks be formed in front of the squares.
"The result of this system would be that all the wharves and
docks would belong to the city.of Washington ; that steamboats
and other vessels would have deep water and sufficient room to lie
at the end of the wharves or piers, and small craft and boats in
the docks, the current of the river would not be interrupted, and
the water would flow freely under the wharves, and prevent the
accumulation of filth, the source of disease; and the whole system would be perfectly conformable to the original plan of the
city as laid down by the commissioners.
"Although I consider the above plan the best, and ought to
have been adopted at the commencement of the city, yet, having
understood that at the sale of the lots facing the rivers there
was an implied water privilege sold at the same time, though
neither eapressed nor defined, this therefore would require that
the spaces in front of the squares extending to the channel should
be considered as waterprivileges; and that openings left for the
streets to the channel should be considered as docks, and belonging to the public ; also that the spaces in front of the intersection of streets facing the rivers, or any other not facing private
p'roperty, should be considered as belonging to the public, on
which-,public wharves or docks may be built.
"A section of the last proposed plan may be seen at the surveyor's office."
Accordingly the surveyor submitted a map showing his plan,
upon the second hypothesis, that the lots facing Water street
were entitled to be recognized as having wharfing privileges, in
-which he exhibited that street as one hundred feet wide in the.
narrowest part.
On July 13th, 1835, the following resolution was considered
in the board of common council of the city of Washington:
"_Resolved, That the corporation of Washington never has admitted, and cannot, without injury to the general interests of the
city, admit, the existence of ' water rights of individuals' between
the Potomac bridge and the Anaeostia, and therefore it is inexpedient to adopt any plan which can be construed into an admis-

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 697
Opinion of the Court.

sion of such rights, or to consider any proposition which claims
such admission."
This resolution was indefinitely postponed by a majority of
one vote.
Peter Force, a member of the council, well known in the public history of this city and country, by permission, entered on
the journal the reasons for his dissent. These reasons were,
briefly, that Water street belonged to the United States; that
in the original plan of the city and division and sale of squares
and lots, those only were recognized as water lots which were
laid off running to the channels of :Rock creek, the Potomac
river, and the Eastern branch, respectively, all of which, on
that account, were sold by the front foot, while all the others
were laid off bounded by streets and avenues, without any
water privileges, and were sold by the square foot; and, among
others, that the motion for indefinite postponement of the resolution had been carried by the vote of a member who had a
direct personal and pecuniary interest in the assertion of a
private right involved in the resolution against that of the
public.
In the meantime the discussion was transferred to the newspapers, Mr. Force representing one side of the controversy, and
the mayor, Mr. Joseph H. Bradley, the other.
Nothing important seems to have been done by the city
council until February 22d, 1839, when the following resolutions were adopted, and were approved by the President of the
United States:
"Resolutions in relation to the manner in which wharves shall
be laid out and constructed on the Potomac river.
"Resolved, &c.,That the plan No. 2, prepared by the late William Elliot, in eighteen hundred and thirty-five, while surveyor
of the city of Washington, regulating the manner in which
wharves on the Potomac, from the bridge to T street south, and
the plan of Water street, shall be laid out, be; and the same is,
adopted as the plan to be hereafter followed in laying out the
wharves and the streets on the said river: Provided, The approbation of the President of the United States be obtained thereto.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Waite, Gray, JJ.
"Resolved, also, That the wharves hereafter to b,- constructed
between the points specified in the said plan shall be so built as to
allow the water to pass freely under them; that is to say, they
shall be erected on piers or piles from a wall running the whole
distance on the water line of Water street."

But these resolutions decide nothing as to the right; even if
the corporate authorities of Washington were competent to do
so, which they were not. The resolutions are not, however,
even a recognition of tae existence of any private right of
wharfing attached to the own6rship of lots fronting on the
north side of Water street. At the most, they recognize that
there may be such rights. In point of law..they merely regulate the mode in which the right shall be exercised, whether
private or public, leaving the question as to title, in each case, to
be judicially decided; for that was the extent of the jurisdiction
which the corporation of Washington had over the subject.
To notice further the many items of evidence which are contained in the record, and have been referred to by counsel in
learned and laborious arguments, would proloIg this opinion
to an unnecessary and inexcusable length. Enough has been
said to show that the rights of the parties respectively stand
upon the legal effect of the original documents of title. According to them, as we have shown and now decide, the riparian rights claimed by the appellants, which originally. were
appurtenant to the land of Notley Young by virtue of. its adjoining the Potomac river, passed to the United States by the
conveyance which vested in them the ownership of the land on
which-Water street was laid out and has been built.
The decree below, therefore, was right, and it is accordingly
MR.

JtrsTIcE BRADLEY did not sit in these cases.

.Mn. JurcE MI L, -with whom concurred MR. Omnir
JUSTIC Wrrn and M-m JusTicE GRAY, dissenting.
In these cases the Ohief 'Justice, Mr. Justice Gray, and myself do not .agree with the judgment of the court. We concur
in nearly all that is said in the opinion, and in the general prop-

POTOMAC STEAMBOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. 699
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Waite, Gray, JJ.

osition that where a town lot or other land is bounded on a
street or road or other highway, the fee to which is in some
other person than the lot owner, his rights as a land owner do
not extend beyond the" street, and in case the street occupies
the bank of a river or other water-way, no riparian rights attach to the lot or its owner. lBut we think the court has erred
in the application of this doctrine to the present case by failing
to give due weight to one or two considerations which we shall
mention.
1. Notley Young was the . original and sole owner in fee
simple of that part of thedland on which Washington city was
laid out, which includes the Iocu8 in quo, and there is no question that this ownership included the right to erect wharves
on it on the Potomac river where the wharf now in contest
is constructed. In pursuance of the scheme by which a city
with streets, lots, and squares was laid out on this land, he
conveyed- it in trust to Beall and Gantt. They were to lay
it out into streets, squares, and lots.' When this was done, the
title in fee of the streets, as well as of such squares as were to
be reserved for public uses, was to vest in the United States.
Of all this property, after that was done, there was to be a
fair and equal division between Young and the government,
and Young's part was to be conveyed to him, and the other
half to commissioners to be named by the President.
The riparian rights of land owners on the Potomac river
were understood at that time as well or perhaps better than
they are now, and the value attached theni, and especially to
the right to construct wharves, is shown clearly by the record
and by the act of the legislature of. Maryland of December
19th, 1791, cited in the beginning of the court's opinion. It
therefore could not have escaped attention, if the entire waterway of the river, and the right of approach to it and use of it
in regard to wharves and landing places, was vested exclusively
in the United States, that no equal division was made of this
important right, unless it was by the right attaching to each
lot which, but for'Water street, would be bounded by the
river.
No equivalent is given to Young fok this valuable right, on

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: :Miller, Waite, Gray, JJ.

the supposition that it all vested in the United States; no express words are used conveying it to the United States or dedicating it to the public. It cannot be successfully maintained
that the right attaches as appurtenant to the street. The uses
of a street and of a wharf are entirely different, and while a
dedication of a street to public use may not be inconsistent with
the use of a part of it for a landing place, it cannot be said to
have as appurtenant to it a right to build a wharf into the
river. If such a street had a definite width, it must happen
that there would, by reason of the irregular curvature of the
river, be detached pieces of land between it and the water. To
whom did this land belong, unless to the lot which would embrace it if its lines were extended to the water? And if the
lot did not embrace it, what equal division of this valuable land
has ever been made with Mr. Young? As it was the duty of
the trustees to divide the whole land, it will be assumed that
they did it, and this was their mode of doing it.
The cases of Doa'ne v. Broad Street A8socat on, 6 M,[ass. 332,
and Hathaway v. Wilson, 123 Mass. 359, are directly in point.
In the former case, a partition was made under which the parties claimed, and it was insisted that certain flats, which were
the subject of the contest, did not pass as appurtenant to a
wharf allotted to one of the parties, because both the wharf
and the flats were land, and land cannot pass as appurtenant
to land. But the court said that, though the flats were not
specifically mentioned, yet the duty of the commissioners to
partition them, and their relation to the wharf, which could
not be used without passing over them, led to the fair inference that on the partition they were intended to pass as part
of the wharf property.
2. This view is confirmed by the language of the commissioners who made the division with Young, in the certificate
which they gave him. This was not in form a regular deed of
conveyance, but is clearly intended to define the square or lots
which fell to him in the division, and to remit him for his ownership to his original title, and for the nature of that ownership
to the surrounding circumstances. Taking square No. M72, one
of those now in controversy, the certificate says that "the

POTOMAC STEA-BOAT CO. v. UPPER POT. S. CO. _701
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Waite, Gray, MIJ.

whole of said square shall remain to the said INotley Young,
agreeably to the deed of trust concerning lands in the said
city." Here is a plain remission of his original title and right
which, but for Water street, must include riparian rights also.
And though this certificate is accompanied by a plat which
shows Water street as lying between the square and the river,
we are not able to see that this circumstance excludes the
original riparian rights of Young, in the absence of any evidence
that those rights were allotted to the government in the partition, or that Young anywhere received an equivalent for those
rights unless he obtained it by this statement, that the "square
shall remain to Young agreeably to the deed of trust made by
him." No such deed was executed by the commissioners to
purchasers of lots from the United States.
This view of the matter was taken by Judge Cranch in the
case of the Ctesa8peake and Ohio Can& Company v. Union
Bank of Georgetbwn, 5 Cranch C. 0. R. 509, decided in 1838,
and though the case is not fully argued by the court, the eminent ability of the judge who decided it, and his well-known
accuracy as a reporter, and his knowledge of the local laws and
customs of the city of Washington, entitle it to very great
weight, as what he intended to decide is quite clear.
The careful and elaborate letter of the commissioners to the
president, of July 2Ith, 1795, which states that "no wharves,
except by the public, can be erected on the waters opposite the
public appropriations, or on the streets at right angles with the
waters;" but "with respect to the private property on the
water," lays down regulations by which "proprietors of property lying on the water" are to be permitted to build wharves,
and to erect warehouses thereon, leaving spaces at certain distances for cross streets, evidently uses the words "public appropriations" as distinct from "streets," and as designating the lots
and squares set apart with the President's approval for the public
use; and by prohibiting the erection of private wharves at the
end of "the streets at right angles with the water," and omitting to mention the shores by the side of other streets, clearly
implies that such shores are not covered bythe prohibitionbut are
to be treated as included in" the private property on the water."

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Syllabus.

The lot set off to the United States, and afterwards sold to
Morris and Greenleaf, is within the same principle.
The declaration in the preliminary contract of 1793, between
the comnissioners and them, that the latter were entitled "of
course to the privilege of wharfing annexed" to these lots,
while not evidence of a contract to control the terms of the
subsequent more formal instrument, is of weight as showing
what at that time was understood to be included in a description of the lots.
When to this we add that no act of Congress has ever asserted ownership of these wharves or landing places, oi the
rights of a riparian owner, while they have conferred on the
authorities of the District the power of regulating wharves,
private and public, We are forced to -the conclusion that these
rights are left with the owner of the squares certified to Notley
Young in the division with the United States.

CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD COMPANY and
Another. v. UNJION ROLLING MILL COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOP.

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued December 6th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Contract-Equit/-Lien--Praice--ules.
1. Where, in a suit in equity several defehdants have independent rights in

the subject-Matter of the controversy, and one defendant, having answered setting up his particular right, files a cross-bill to enforce it, and
the causes iiroceed together and are heard together, and an interlocutory
decree is entered to protect and enforce the rights thus set up, entitled
as of both suits, the complainant in the original suit cannot, unless upon
consent, dismiss his bill and thus deprive the defendant of the right acquired by the decree.
2. When one defendant in a suit in equity pleads to the jurisdiction, and another defendant answers setting up independent rights in the subjectmatter of the controversy, and no notice is taken of the plea to the jurisdiction, and a final decree is entered sustaining the rights set up in the
answer, the complainant cannot have his bill dismissed under the 88th,

