SALAMANCA TOWNSHIP v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

We conclude, therefore, that the motion to quash should have
been overruled, and the motion for judgment sustained. The
ftcst question is answered accordingly. The second question is
answered in the affirmative.
As the judgment was in accordance with these answers, it is
Affirmed-

SATrAMAWAN
IN

ERROR

TO

TOWNSHIP v. W LSON{.

THE CIRCUIT coURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

STATES

FOR

Sabmitted December 5th, 1883.-Decided December 17th, 1883.

.an=a-,unkzap2

orporaions,Offirs of-Offie, Besgnaton of-Seme
of Process-Stalutes of Kansas.

The removal of a treasurer of a township in the State of Kansas from the limits
of the township into the limits of an adjoining township, without resigning
his office, does not vacate the office so as to invalidate service of summons
upon him in his oficial capacity for the purpose of commencing an action

against the township.

-r. Wallace Pratt and frA. MVlzres WF Blair for plaintiff
in error.
.fT..Tamew S. Boa.ford, -Mr. Xarcus T. C. "Wlliamsand -.M.
.psep]
&S'e, for defendant in error.
MR.Cm F JusTICE WAuTE delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case the judges holding the circuit court have certified a difference of opinion between them upon the hearing of a
motion to set aside the service of summons on the plaintiff in
error, being the defendant below. The return of service is in
these words:
"Received the within writ September the 12th, 1882. I served
the within summons on said Township of Salamanca, Cherokee
county, State of Kansas, by delivering a true and certified copy
thereof to Joseph A. Jones, the last elected and qualified treasurer
of said Salamanca Township, in the county of Cherokee, State and
District of Kansas; and I made diligent search and inquiry for,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

but c ould- not find, in the Township of Salamanca, or county of
Cherokee, State and Dist. of Kansas, thle last electedand qualified
trustee or clerk of said within defendant, Township of Salaihanca.
"All done this" 18th day of September, A.D. 1882.
"B. F. Smxsow,
"U S. -.
1, -Dist.of Kansas.
"By J.H. SmITH, -Deputy."

The controlling question certified is as follows:
"2. Whether service of said summons upon Joseph A. Jones,
the last electet and qualified.treasurer of said township, after said
Jones had removed out of said township and across the line into
the adjoining township of Crawford, in said county of Cherokee,
was good and sufficient service of said summons."

It is not denied that the service was good if Jones was, in
law, the treasurer of the township when served. By the Constitution of 1Kansas, art. 9, see. 4, township officers, except
justices of the peace, hold their offices one year from the Monday next succeeding their election, and until their successors
are qualied. Jones was, therefore, presumptively in office
-when served, unless his removal across'the line into Crawford
township of itself created a vacancy. Boston v. Buck, 8 Kan.
302; R ieinart-v. T&-e State, 14 Kan. 318; lubbard'v. Crawford, 19 Kan. 570.
There is nothing in the Constitution or laws of Kansas which
requires a township treasurer fo be a resident of, or voter in,
the township when elected or, qualified; neither is there anything which vacates the office if the officer removes from the
township during the term for which he was elected. Justices
of the peace are township officers, and as to then it is expressly
provided that they "shall reside and hold their office in the
township for which they shall have, been elected.". Sec. 4
[5970], Dassler's Comp. Laws (1879), 978. As no similar provision is made in 'respect to any other township officer, the
implication necessarily is that actual residence in the township
is not required of them. E]pressio unius est exclusio aleriu&
That residence, as a qualification for office, was in the minds of

EX PARTE BOYER.

629

Syllabus.

the framers of the Constitution and of the legislature is apparent, for art. 3, sec. 11, of the Constitution, provides that all
judicial officers "shall reside" in their respective townships,
counties, and districts during their respective terms of office;"
art. 2, sec. 4, that "no person shall be a member of the
legislature who is not at the time of his election a qualified
voter of, and resident in, the county or district for which he is
elected;" and see. 218 [1643] of the general statutes (Dassler's
Comp. Laws, 311), that "ceasing to be an inhabitant of the
county for which he was elected or appointed" vacates the
office of a county officer.
Undoubtedly the removal of a township treasurer from a
township may, under some circumsamces, vacate his office and
authorize the county commissioners to fill the place (see. 12
[5978], Dassler's Comp. Laws, 978), but we think it does not
necessarily vacate the office under all circumstances. In the
present case the question is whether moving "1across the line"
into an adjoining township of itself has that effect. In our
opinion it does not, and consequently we answer the second
question certified in the affirmative. The motion to set aside
the service' wa8, therefcre, properly overruled, and the .judgment is
Af
.

EX PARTE BOYER & Another.
ORIGINAL.

Submitted December 17th, 1883.-Deeided January7th, 1884.

Admiratg-,Twisdiction.
The District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, as

a court of admiralty, has jurisdiction of a suit in rem against a seaim
canal-boat, to recover damages caused by a collision between her and another canal-boat, while the two boats were navigating the Illinois and Lake
Michigan canal, at a point about four miles from its Chicago end, and
within the body of Cook county, Illinois, although the libellant's boat was
bound from one place in Illinois to another place in Illinois.

Petition for a writ of prohibition to restrain the judge of the

