OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

B AILEY and Others v. TILE UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
Submitted October 29th, 1883.-Decided December 3d, 1883.

-Powerof Attorney-Statutes.
Payment to an attorney in fact, constituted such by power of attorney executed
by the claimants before the allowance of their claim by Congress or by the
proper department, is good as between the government and such claimants,
where the power of attorney has not been revoked at the time payment is
made, notwithstanding the provisions of the act of July 29th, 1846, entitled
"'An Act in relation to the payment of claims," and the act of February
26th, 1853, entitled "An Act to prevent frauds upon the treasury of the
United States." 9 Stat. 41, and 10 Stat. 170.

Suit to recover $200,070.34 from the United States, the same
having been previously paid to a person holding the duly executed power of attorney of the plaintiffs; the plaintiffs claiming
that the power was absolutely void under the provisions of the
acts contained in 9 Stat. 41, and 10 Stat. 170.
By a decree passed March 25th, 1868, in the District Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
certain sums of money were ascertained to be due on account
of the illegal capture of the British steamer Labuan and her
cargo by a cruiser of the United States.
On the 6th day of February, 1869, William Bailey, William
Leetham, James Leetham, and Elizabeth Leetham, British subjects, executed and delivered a power of attorney-in which
they described themselves as then or late owners of said
steamer-constituting, one A. E. Godeffroy, of New York, their
attorney, with authority to receive from the government of the
United States, and from all and every person or persons whom
it might concern to pay or satisfy the same, all moneys then or
which might thereafter become due and payable to them with
reference to said vessel Labuan; upon receipt thereof, to execute acquittances, releases, and discharges for the same ; and,
upon non-payment thereof, to collect said moneys by such
necessary actions, suits, or expedients as their attorney deemed
proper.

BAILEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

By an act bf Congress, approved July 7th, 1870, it was,
among other things, provided "that there be paid out of any
money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to William
Bailey, William Leetham, and John Leetham, of England, or
their legal representatives, owners of the British steamer
Labuan, $131,221.30, with interest from June 2d, 1862, to the
time of payment, and five thousand dollars without interest."
The act declares that such sums are due under the beforementioned decree of March 25th, 1868.
At the date of this act the owners, in different proportions,
of the Labuan were William Bailey, William Leetham, and the
executors and executrix of John Leetham, who were William
Leetham, James Leetham, and Elizabeth Leetham.
An account between the United States and said owners,
based upon the said act of July 7th, 1870, having been examined, adjusted, achnitted, and certified by the jroper officers
of the treasury, a warrant was made, upon which a draft was
issued on the treasurer of the United States for the sum of
$200,070.34, payable "to Win. Bailey, Wm.Leetham, and John
Leetham, of England, or their legal representatives, or order."
This draft was delivered to Godeffroy, -with this indorsement
thereon: "Pay on the indorsement of A. E. Godeffroy, att'y
in fact. R. W. Taylor, comptroller." The draft having been
indorsed in the names of the payees, by himself as their attorney in fact, Godeffroy received the proceeds, but has never
paid to the parties named in the act of Congress, or to any one
for them, any part of the sum collected by him from the
United States.
The treasury department refused, although requested by
appellants or their agents, to make further payment. Thereupon this action was brought in the court of claims to recover
the amount specified in the act of Congress. Judgment was
rendered for the United States, and the present appeal questions the correctness of that judgment.
.Yr. J Hubley Ashton (M'. .Aathaniel Tfhz7son was with him)
for appellsnts: The moneys appropriated and required to be
paid to the claimants, by the act of Congress of July 7th, 1870,
YOL.-CiX--27

OCTOBER TERME, 1883.
Argument for AppeTants_

never having been paid to them, or their duly authorized agent,
the liability- arising upon the law, and the contract it imports,
has not been discharged, and the United States are liable to
the claimants for the moneys specified in the statute. After
the adjustment of an account between the United States and
the persons named in the act, on the 11th of July, 1870, a warrant was drawn on the next day directing the payment to them
of the amount specified, upon which a draft, dated the 12th of
July, was issued, payable "to Win. Bailey, Wni. Leetham, and
John Leetham, owners, or their legal representatives, or order,
$200,070 1 W." On this draft an indorsement was made by the
comptroller, directing its payment "on the indorsement of A.
E. Godeffroy, att'y in fact." This man, thereupon, indorsed
the draft onthe same day, the 12th of July, and got the money.
The claimants have never received a dollar of it. The money
was paid to Godeffroy upon a power of attorney given to him
in England, in February, 1869, long before the passage of the
act of Congress, by William Bailey, William Leetham, and the
personal representatives of John Leetham; and which, of
course, fulfilled none of the requirements of the act of July
29th, 1847, or the act of February 26th, 1853. This power of
attorney was absolutely null and void; and no payment under
it to Godeffroy could bind the claimants, or discharge the debt.
-Act of July 29th, 1846, 9 Stat. 41; Act of February 26th, 1853,
10 Stat. 170; Cotg's Case, 3 Court of Claims, 64; Pierce's Case,
2 Court of Claims, 599 ; United States v. 7illis, 95 IT. S. 407;
pofford v. Rirk, 97 U. S. 484, 489; Becker v. Sweetzen, 15
iMinn. 427, 435. The claimants cannot be affected with any
responsibility for the illegal payment of this money at the
treasury to Godeffroy, and are not chargeable with any wrong
or fault in connection with that transaction, and the United
State§ are, and should be held, solely and exclusively responsible in law for the payment of the money to that person, and its
consequent loss to the claimants. The fallacy of the argument
on the other side consists in sedulously ignoring the character
and relations of the claimants, who were British subjects, resident in their own cou4ntry, and who knew nothing, and were
.notbound to know anything, of the acts of Congress of July

BAILEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

29th, 1846, and February 26th, 1853. The defence proceeds
upon the idea that the claimants participated in the violation
of law committed in the payment of this money to Godeffroy,
and that the maxim, in pari delicto potior est conditio defendentie, furnishes the r ',- of decision in the case. If tlere was
no delictunzi on the part of the claimants, there was no par
dlietunm on their part, and the rule expressly requires equal
wrong in order that the law should leave the parties where it
finds them. "The maxim does not apply unless both the litigating parties are in delicto ; it cannot be insisted upon as a
defence, either by or against an innocent party." Broom's
Legal Maxims, 72-4. No delictura, fault, or blame could be finputable to the claimants under any circumstances, in this transaction, unless they had actual knowledge of the acts of Congress which discredited and invalidated the power of attorney,
which it is not shown they had. No one is presumed to know
the law of a foreign country. 1 Story's Eq. Jur. § 140 ; Havenb
v. Foeter, 9 Pick. 111; Leslie v. Baiie,2 Y. & 0. Ch. Cas. 91.
It was the duty of the government to obey the act of 1853,
and to protect these foreign claimants against the consequences
of their own ignorance; and there can be no reason for excusing it from the performance of its duty to them, because
the claimants, without knowledge of its statutes, gave a power
of attorney, which those statutes declared void, to the man who
received the money. As the claimants had no knowledge of
the acts of Congress, there was no fault, wrong, or negligence
on their part in intrusting Godeffroy with their power of attorney, and the whole blame, in the transaction of the payment
of this money to him at the treasury, is therefore imputable
to the govermuent., and the government is solely responsible
for the consequences of his infidelity.
_3Tr. Solicitor General for the United States.
HRLAI delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTrCE H
After reciting the facts he continued:
It is contended, on behalf of appellants, that the power of
attorney executed in 1869 to Godeffroy-upon the authority of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

which alone was payment made to him-was, under the laws
of the United States, absolutely null and void; consequeitly,
no payment under it could bind the claimants or discharge the
government from its obligation to pay the sums specified in
the act of 1870. This presents the controlling question on the
present appeal. Its determination depends upon the construction to be given to the act of July 29th, 1846, 9 Stat. 41,
entitled "An Act in relation to the payment of claims,", and to
the first and seventh sections of the act of February 26th, 1853,
10 Stat. 170, entitled "An Act to prevent frauds upon the
treasury of the United States."
The act of 1846 related to claims against the United States
allowed by a resolution or act of Congress. That statute
directed that they should not be paid to any other person than
the claimant, his executor or administrator, unless upon the
production to the proper disbursing officer of a warrant of
attorney executed 'after the enactment of the resolution
or act allowing the claim." The first section of the act of
1853 declares that "all transfers and assignments hereafter
made of any claim upon the United States, or any part or
share thereof, or interest thereon, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and
all powers of attorney; or orders, or other authorities for
receiving payment of any such claim, or any part or share
thereof, shall be absolutely null and void, unless the same shall'
be freely made and executed in the presence of at least two
attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant
for the payment thereof." That act further provides (§ 7)that
its provisions and those of the act of 1846 shall "apply and extend to all claims against the United States, whether allowed
by special acts of Congress, or arising under general laws or
treaties, or in any other manner whatever."
These enactments have been under examination in several
cases heretofore decided in this court, sQme 'f hich are now
relied on to support the proposition that oficers of the treasury were forbidden by statute from recognizing Godeffroy
under any circumstances as agent of claimants, with authority

BAILEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

as between them and the government to receive the warrant
and draft when issued. But we do not understand that any of
these cases involved the precise question now presented for determination.'
In United States v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407, it was ruled that a
claim against the United States could not be assigned so as to
enable the assignee to bring suit against the government in his
own name in the court of claims. In ASIopford v. Kirk, 97 U.
S. 484, the question was as to the validity of certain orders
drawn by a claimant, before the allowance of his claim, upon
the attorneys having it in charge, directing the latter to pay
certain sums out of the proceeds when collected, and which
orders, being accepted by the attorneys, were purchased by
Spofford in good faith and for value. Upon the treasury warrant being issued, the claimant refused to admit the validity
either of the orders he had given or the acceptances made by
'his attorneys. Thereupon Spofford sought, by suit against the
claimant and his attorneys, to enforce a compliance with the
orders and acceptances of which he had become assignee and
holder. The court adjudged that the transfer or assignment
to Spofford was, under the act of 1853-carTied into the
Revised Statutes, § 3477-a nullity as between him and the
claimant. No question arose in that case as to what would
have been the effect upon the rights of the claimant had the
officers of the government recognized the assignment of Spofford. In Ew in v. United States, 97 U. S. 392, it was ruled
that the act of 1853 applied to cases of voluntary assignments
of demands against the government, and (lid not embrace
cases where the title is transferred by operation of law. "The
passing of claimn to heirs, devisees, or assignees in bankruptcy," said the court, "are not within the evil at which
the statute aimed."
But what was said in Goodman. v. N-iblack, 102 U. S. 556,
seems to be more directly in point. That was the case of a
voluntary assignment by a debtor of his property for the benefit of creditors, including his rights, credits, effects, and estate
of every description. The assignment embraced a claim of the
assignor arising under a contract with the United States. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

was adjudged in the court of original jurisdiction that, as to
that claim, the assignment was rendered invalid by the act of
1853. But the language of this court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Miller, was:
"It is understood that the circuit court sustained the demurrer,
under pressure of the strong language of the opinion in SIpoftord v.
.firk. We do not think, however, that the circumstances of the
present case bring it within the one then under consideration, or
the principles there laid down. That was a case of the transfer or
assignment of a part of a disputed claim, then in controversy, and
it was clearly within all the mischiefs designed to be remedied by
the statute. Those misehiefs, as laid down in that opinion, and in
the others referred to, are mainly two: 1. The danger that the
rights of the government might be embarrassed by having to deal
with several persons instead of one, and by the introduction of a
party who was a stranger to the original transaction ; 2. That by
a transfer of such a claim against the government to one or more
persons not originally interested in it, the way might be conveniently opened to such improper influences in prosecuting the claim
before the departments, the courts, 6r the Congress, as desperate
cases, where the reward is contingent on success, so often suggest." "But these considerations," the court proceeded to say,
"as well as a careful examination of the statute, leave no doubt
that its sole purpose was to protect the government, and not the
parties to the assignment."
These cases show that the statutes in question are not to
be interpreted according to the literal acceptation of the words
used. They show that there may be assigmnents or transfers
of claims against the government, such as, for instance, those
passed upon in Ewin v. United States, and in Goodman v.,
.Nibhlk, which are not forbidden by the statutes.
In the case before us no question arises as to the transfer or
assignment of a claim against the government: The question
is whether payment to one who has been authorized to receive
it, by the power of attorney executed before the allowance of
the claim by the act of Congress was good as between the
government and the claimant, where, at the time of payment,

BATLEY v. TMTED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

such power of attorney was unrevoked. If, in respect of
transfers-or assignments of claims, the purpose of the statute,
as ruled in Goodman v. .iblack, -was to protect the government, not the claimant in his dealings with the government,
it is difficult to perceive upon what ground it could be held that
the statutory inhibition upon powers of attorney in advance of
the allowance of the claim and the issuing of the warrant, can
be used to compel a second payment after the amount thereof
has been paid to the person authorized by the claimant to receive it. A, mere power of attorney given before the warrant
is issued-so long at least as it is unexecuted-may undoubtedly be treated by the claimant as absolutely null and void in
any contest between him and his attorney in fact. And it may
be so regarded by the officers of the government whose duty
it is to adjust the claim and issue a warrant for its amount.
But if those officers chose to make payment to the person
whom the claimant, by formal power of attorney, has
accredited to them as authorized to receive pajnment, the
claimant cannot be permitted to make his own disregard of
the statute the basis for impeaching the settlement had with
his agent. To hold otherwise would be inconsistent with the
ruling heretofore made-and with which, upon consideration,
we are entirely satisfied-that the purpose of Congress, by the
enactments in question, was to protect the government against
frauds upon the part of claimants and those who might become
interested with them in the prosecution of claims, whether before Congress or the several departments. The title of the act
of 1853 suggests this purpose. It is to prevent frauds upon the
treasury. An effectual means to that end was to authorize the
officers of the government to disregard any assigment or
transfer of a clain, or any power of attorney to collect it,
unless made or executed after the allowance of the claim, the
ascertainment of the amount due thereon, and the-issuing of the
warrant for the payment thereof. Other sections of the statute
-those forbidding officers of the government and members of
Congress from prosecuting or becoming interested in claims
against the government, and those punishing the bribery or
undue influencing of such officers or members-sustain the view

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

that what was in the mind of Congress was to protect the
government in the matter of claims against it. But if the protection of claimants was at all in the mind of Congress when
passing the acts of 1846 and 1853, it is quite certain that the
courts should not, to the injury of the government, extend that
protection to those that elected not to avail themselves of the
provisions of those statutes. Here it is not denied that the
power of attorney executed in 1869 embraces, and was intended
to embrace, the claims arising out of the decree of 1868, from
whatever source the money in sitisfaction of it might be
derived. Nor is it pretended that such power of attorney had
been revoked prior to the adjustment and payment of the claims
in question.
It seems to us-looking at the mischiefs intended to be
remedied by these statutes and giving the words of Congress
a reasonable interpretation-that the claimants were not at
liberty, as between the government and themselves, to question
the right of the officers of the treasury to recognize the unreyoked authority which the latter had given to Godeffroy, without restriction as to time, to receive from any one whom it
might concern topay all sums of money due or to become due
and payable on account of the seizure of the vessel Labuan.
The judgment must, therefore, be affirmed.
It ig 80ordered.

JACKSON v. ROBY and Another.
ROBY and Another v. JACKSON.
IN ERROR TO TIE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted October 31st, 1883.-Decided December 3d, I88

.MineralLands-Revised Statutes.
1. Section 2324 Rev. St. enacts that where certain mining claims referred to in
the section are held in comrmon, the expenditure upon them required by
the act may be made upon any one claim : Held, that the act contem-

