OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

the case, are not of such character, even when admitted by the
demurrer, as in law would justify a recission. And as the case
for relief as to this sale is not made independently, but only as
part of the whole case intended to be presented by the bill, we
conclude that it must fal with the rest.
The demurrer was rightly sustained and the bill properly
dismissed.
Te decree is afflrmed.

TOWNSEND v. LITTLE and Others.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF

THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.

Argued November 26th, 1883.-Decided December 10th, 1888.

Constructive .Zotice-Deed,--raud--SecrelTrust-Statutea--Utah.
A, having acquired the right to occupy a tract of land in Salt Lake City, took
possession of it and erected a public house thereon, and lived in it with his
wife and B, his polygamous wife, carrying on a hotel there. He ceased to

maintain relations with B, as his polygamous wife, but he being desirous to
have the benefit of her services, both concealed this fact. He made a secret
agreement with her, that if she would thus remain she should have one-half
interestin the property. Ie acquired title to the property from the mayor
under the provisions of the act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 541, without
any disclosure of the secret agreement. Subsequently A's interest therein
passed into the hands of innocent third parties for value, without notice
of the claim of B under the secret agreement: Held,
1. That B had no rights in the premises as against innocent bona fide encumbrancers and purchasers without notice of her claim.
2. That the joint occupation of the premises by A and B, under the circumstances, was no constructive notice of B's claim of right.
8. The territorial act under which a deed of the property was made to A by
the mayor, directed that "deeds of conveyance of the same shall be
6xecuted by the mayor of the city or town, under seal of the corporation." A general'act of the Territory at the time the deed was made required deeds to be witnessed. The deed to A bore thb corporate seal, as
required by the special act; but was not witnessed: Held, that the
special act controlled the general act, and that the deed was good.

By an act of Congress passed March 3d, 1867, entitled
"An Act for the relief of the inhabitants of cities and towns

TOWNSEND v. LITTLE.
Statement of Facts.

upon the public lands," 14 Stat. 541, it was provided that
whenever any portion of the public lands of the United States
had been, or should thereafter be, settled upon and occupied as
a town site, it should be lawful for the corporate authorities of
the town to enter at the proper land office, at the minimum
price, the land so settled and occupied, in trust for the several
use and benefit of the occupants thereof, according to their
several interests, and that the execution of said trust, as to the
disposal of the lots of said town, &c., should be conducted
under such rules and regulations as might be prescribed by the
legislature of the StatW or Territory in which the same might
be situated.
In pursuance of the authority thus granted, the legislature of
the Territory of Utah, by an act passed February 17th, 1869,
Compiled Laws of Utah, 1876, page 379, provided that whenever the corporate authorities of any town should enter any
public land occupied as a town site, such corporate authorities
should give notice thereof, by publication in a newspaper for
three months, whereupon any person claiming to be the rightful occupant, or entitled to the occupancy or possession of any
lot or part thereof, should, within six months after the first
publication of the notice, file in the probate court of the county
a statement in writing, containing an accurate description of
the particular parcel of land in which he might claim to have
an interest, and the specific right, interest, or estate therein
which he claimed to be entitled to receive; and that the filing
of a statement should be considered notice to all persons claiming any interest in the lands described therein of the claim of
the party filing the same; and that all persons failing to file
such statement within the time limited by the act, should be
forever barred the right of claiming or receiving such land, or
any interest or estate therein, or in any part, parcel, or share
thereof, in any court of law or equity. The act further provided that if there were no adverse claimants to a particular
lot or parcel of land, the probate court should give notice to
the person filing the statement claiming the same to produce
his proofs in support of his statement, and the court, if satisfied
from the proofs of the validity of such claim, should bause

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

judgment to be entered of record, and certify the fact to the
mayor of the town, who should make to the party claimant a
deed for the tract or parcel of land so adjudged to him.
The appellant, Elizabeth X. Townsend, brought this suit
in the District Court for the Third Judicial District of the
Territory of Utah, by which .she claimed title under the
provisions of the act of Congress and the act of the Legislature of the Territory of Utah, to the undivided half of a certain lot in the city of Salt Lake, which was particularly
described in her bill of complaint.
She alleged that in the year 1867 she -and the defendant,
James Townsend, went into the actual possession of said premises; that from the date just mentioned until March 1st, 1778,
they jointly occupied and improved said property and kept a
hotel thereon, known as the Townsend House; that they occu.
pied said premises as two persons, for their mutual and equal
benefit, mutually acknowledging each other's interest; that
said premises formed part of a tract of land in Salt Lake City,
in the Territory of Utah, subject to entry, which, on November 21st, 1871, was in fact entered at the United States land
office in Salt Lake City by Daniel H. Mills, mayor of said city,
in trust for the occupants thereof, under the act of Congress
aforesaid; that at the date of said entry the appellant was, as
to a half interest in said premises, one of the persons for
whose relief said act of Congress was passed, and she and said
Townsend were conclusively entitled to a conveyance of said
premises from the mayor on complying with said rules and
regulations; that on May 1st, 1873, Townsend obtained a
deed from the mayor conveying the entirety of said premises
to himself in fee, without the knowledge of appellant, and she
was not informed thereof until a subsequent year; that when
it came to her knowledge she requested Townsend to convey
to her one-half of said premises, which he promised to do,
admitting her right to the same, and that upon the obtaining
of such deed from the mayor by Townsend a trust resulted in
her favor, binding Townsend to convey to her the one undivided half of said premises, which he has never done. The
bill further alleged that the defendants Hooper, Jennings and

TOWNSEN)

v. LITTLE.

Statement of Facts.

Roberts claimed some interest in the premises, adverse to appellant, as purchasers, encumbrancers, or otherwise, but that
their rights were only such as they had questionably derived
from Townsend, with notice of appellant's possession and occupancy of said premises, and her consequent rights, and subject thereto. The bill prayed that the purchase of said
premises by Townsend might be declared as to one-half
thereof, as a purchase in trust by him for appellant, and that
Townsend, Hooper and Jennings might be required to convey
the same to her.
The defendant Townsend filed no answer. Roberts answered
disclaiming any interest in the premises. Defendants Hooper
and Jennings filed a joint answer, in which they denied all the
averments of the petition, except that the premises in controversy
were situate within the town site of Salt Lake City, and were
subject to entry by the mayor under the act of Congress, and
that Townsend had obtained a deed from the mayor for the
whole of said premises. They averred that they were purchasers of said premises for a valuable consideration, without
notice of the claim of appellant, and that they had no notice
thereof until the bringing of this suit, and that appellant and
Townsend had conspired to bring and maintain this suit for the
purpose of defrauding them, well knowing that the claim of
appellant was false.
The district court made a finding, from which the following
facts appeared :
On March, 1865, the defendant, James Townsend, took possession of the premises in question, having purchased the possessory right thereto of one Clawson, who conveyed the. same
to hhn for the price of $6,000. Afterwards, in the years 1872
and 173, he purchased the rights of other claimants for $3,000.
All the purchase money for these claims was paid by Townsend out of his own means. In the fall of the year 1866 he
went on the premises to reside, taking with him his lawful wife,
whom he had married in 1828, and the appellant as a plural or
polygamous wife. He kept a hotel on the premises from that
date until February, 1878, which was known as the Townsend
House, and was carried on in his name solely, and he was rep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

resented to the public by every advertising agency as the sole
proprietor. During all this time he and the appellant lived together on the premises as husband and polygamous wife, the
appellait taking an active part in conducting the business of
the hotel. The lawful wife of Townsend also lived with him
as such on the same premises until her death in 1870.
In the fall.of the year 1867, Townsend and appellant entered
into a verbal agreement with each other, whereby Townsend
stipulated that if appellant would continue to live at the Townsend House and assist in carrying on the business of the hotel,
as she had theretofore done, he would convey to her a one-half
interest in the real and personal property of the hotel.
During the fall of the same year Townsend took another
polygamous wife, but ostensibly continued his cohabitation with
the appellant as his polygamous wife, the. motive of both being
to conceal from the public any change in their relations to each
other.
On INovember 21st, 1871, the mayor of Salt Lake City entered in the land office and paid for the lands embraced in the
town site of Salt Lake City, in trust for the occupants thereof,
and received a patent therefor on June 1st, 1872. The mayor
gave for the period of three months the public notice required
by law of such entry, the first publication being on November
24th, 1871. Within the time allowed by law for occupants to
assert their claims to the lands embraced in said town site,
Townsend applied for.a conveyance to himself of the premises
in controversy, and in due course of proceedings in the probate
court was adjudged to be the rightful occupant thereof and entitled to a deed therefor. Whereupon the mayor, on May 1st,
1873, executed and delivered to him a deed under his corporate
seal of the city, purporting to convey to him the whole of said
premises in fee in execution of said trust, but said deed was
without witnesses.
The appellant did not, within six months after the first publication of notice of entry of said town site by the mayor, or
at any time, make or deliver to the clerk of the probate court
of said county any description of said premises, or of any right,
interest or estate claimed by her therein, or make any claim

TOWNSEND v. LITTLE.
Statement of Facts.

as an occupant or -otherwise to a conveyance of any interest
therein under the town-site laws.
After his purchase of the possessory right to said premises,
and before the fall of 1868, Townsend extended in the erection
of buildings thereon the sum of $16,000. On October 1st, 1868,
he borrowed of defendant Hooper the sum of $5,000, and on
December 8th, 1868, a further sum of $5,000. For these sums
he executed his several notes and deeds of trust on the premises
to secure the same.
On September 24th, 1873, the indebtedness of Townsend to
Hooper on these notes amounted to $12,500, and on that day
he renewed the same by giving Hooper his three notes, two for
$5,000 each and one for $2,500, due in one year, and at the
same time executed a deed of trust to trustees to secure the
same.
On October 10th, 1876, Townsend gave his note to defendant Roberts for $5,000, payable in one year, and secured it by
a deed of trust upon the same premises. This note afterwards
by assignment became the property of defendants Hooper and
Jennings.
Afterwards Townsend contracted other debts, which, either
by deed of trust or judgment, became liens on said premises,
and by various assignments the defendants Hooper and Jennings became the owners and holders of all the debts secured
by lien on said premises. On April 10th, 1878, the sum of
$16,425 was due on the notes executed by Townsend to Hooper
on September 24th, 1873, and the trusteds named in the deed
of trust to secure the same, in pursuance of the power thereby
conferred, sold said premises to defendant Jennings for $22,500,
which sum he paid, and it was applied to the discharge of the
several liens on the property in the order of their priority.
Jennings afterwards conveyed an undivided half of the premises to his co-defendant Hooper.,
During all their transactions with Townsend the defendants
Hooper, Jennings, and Roberts dealt with him, prior to the
proceedings in the probate court under the town-site law, as
the sole owner of said premises, as against every one save the
United States, and subsequently thereto ,as absolute sole owner,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

without any actual or constructive notice of any claim of the
appellant; and neither the trustees in said trust deed, nor the
defendants Hooper, Jennings, and Roberts, nor any of them,
had any notice of the claim of the appellant to any interest in
or right to said premises until after the bringing of this suit.
Upon this finding of facts the district court dismissed the bill
of complaint. Its decree was carried to the supreme court of
the Territory by appeal, where it was affirmed. The decree of
the latter court affirming the decree of the district court is
brought under review by the present appeal.
.Y'. Jdames H. .landeville submitted the case for the appellant.
Xr. P. L. Milliam for the appellee.
Mu. JusTicE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. After
stating the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
The facts found by the court leave no ground for the appellant's case to rest on. Whatever rights, if any, she might have
as against Townsend, had he continued the owner of the premises in controversy, she certainly has none against innocent
bona f#de incumbrancers and purchasers without notice of her
claim. The arrangement between Townsend and the appellant
was a secret agreement known only to themselves, and, as
found by the court, they, after the agreement, continued to live
together, as they had previously done, in order that the public
might not know that any change had taken place in their relations to each other. A secret agreement, as between herself
and Townsend, which they purposely kept concealed, cannot
be set up against bmza fide purchasers without notice. The
finding of the court that neither Hooper, Jennings, nor Roberts
had notice, either actual or constructive, of appellant's alleged
rights, cuts up by the roots all claim on her part as against
them to the premises in controversy.
Appellant contends, however, that her joint physical occupancy with Townsend of the premises, as found by the court,
was constructive notice to the defendants Hooper and Jennings
of her alleged rights, and that they therefore purchased in

TOWNSEND v. LITTLE.
Opinion of the Court.

subservience thereto. When. Townsend, in 1866, entered into
possession of the premises which he had previously bought with
his own money, he took with him his lawful wife and the appellant, his polygamous wife. At that time it is not disputed
that he was the sole occupant under the act of Congress. The
appellant was no more a joint possessor at that time than any
servant or guest of the hotel. A secret agreement subsequently
entered into between Townsend and the appellant, and purposely kept concealed from the public by them, cannot be held
to change the nature of Townsend's occupancy so as to affect
with constructive notice persons who had no actual notice.
Constructive notice is defined to be in its nature no more
than evidence of notice, the presumption of which is so violent
that the court will not even allow of its being controverted.
Plumb v. Fluitt,2 Anst. 432;'.ennedy v. &reen, 3 My. & K.
699. Where possession is relied on as giving constructive notice it must be open and unambiguous, and not liable to be
misunderstood or misconstrued. Ely v. Tilcox, 20 Wis. 523;
Patten v. ffoore, 32 N. H. 382; Billngtaor v. TVelh, 5 Bin.
129. It must be sufficiently distinct and unequivocal so as to
put the purchaser on his guard. Butler v. Stevens, 26 Maine,
484:; Mi'ight v. Wood, 23 Penn. State 120; Boyce v. Williams,
48 Ill. 371. As said by Strong, J., in :feenha v. Tilliams,48
Penn. State 238, what makes inquiry a duty is such a visible
state of things as is inconsistent with a perfect right in him
who proposes to sell. See also JHolme4 v. Stout, 3 Green. Ch.
492; Jfe.lt chan v. Griofng, 3 Pick. 149; 11arwic v. Thompon, 9 Ala. 409.
Tested by these rules, it is plain that the physical occupancy
of the premises in question by appellant, as found by the district court, was not such possession as to put a purchaser on
inquiry and charge him with constructive notice. On the contrary, viewed in connection with the other facts found, it was
such as to mislead him.
The case of appellant is, therefore, an attempt to set up a
secret trust as against bona fide purchasers for value without
notice. But nothing is clearer than that a purchaser for a valuable consideration, without notice of a prior equitable right,

OCTOBER TERM, 1880.
Opinion of the Court.

obtaining the legal estate at the time of his purchase, is entitled
to priority in equity as well as at law, according to the wellknown maxim that when equities are equal the law shall prevail. Tilliams v. Jacson, 107 U. S. 478 ; Willoughby v. MVlloug~Ty, 1 T. R. 'i63; 61arZton v. Low, 3 P. Wins. 328; Ex
2arte Znott, 11 Wis. 609; TDldeley v. Lodge, 3 Sm. & Giff.
543; Shine v. Gqf, 1 Ball & B. 436; Bowen v. .Evans, 1 Jones
& La. T. 264; Tattier v. -Hind,7 ret.. 252. This is the case
of defendants Hooper and Jennings.
The appellant contends, however, that as the deed executed
by the mayor of Salt Lake City to Townsend was without witnesses as required by the general law of the Territory, it did
not convey the legal title. But the act of the territorial legislature providing for the conveyance to occupants by the mayor
of lands included in the town site did not require witnesses to
his deed. It merely directed that "deeds of conveyance for
the safne shall be executed by the mayor of the city or town
under the seal of the corporation." According to the well settled rule, that general and specific provisions, in apparent contradiction, -whether in the same or different statutes, and without regard to priority of enactment, may subsist together, the
specific qualifying and supplying exceptions to the general, this
provision for the execution of a; particular class of deeds is not
controlled by the law of the Territory requiring deeds generally
to be executed with two witnesses. Pease v. Witney, 5 Mass.
380; 2Vichols v. Bertram., 3 Pick. 341; The State ex rel. Fosdick v. Perrysburg, 14 Ohio St. 472; London, etc., Railway
v. Tfandsworth Board of TForks, Law R~ep. 8 C. P. 185;
Bishop on the Written Laws, ยง 112 a. The deed of the mayor
to Townsend having been executed in conformity with the
special act was therefore valid and effectual to convey the
legal title.
The result of these views is that the appellant has failed to
show herself entitled to the relief prayed in her bill.
The decree of -1e Supreme, Court of the Territory of Utah
affrming the decree qf the district court by which her bill
was dismissed must be afflrmed.

