SMITH v. GREENHOW.
Opinion of the Court.

SMITE o. GREE1NHOW.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUTr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES For THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Submitted November 19th. 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Constitutional Law-urisdiction.
The declaration contained a count in trespass for entering the plaintiff's premises and carrying away his goods. The plea set up that the goods were
lawfully taken by the defendant as collector, to satisfy a tax due the State
of Virginia ; the replication averred that the plaintiff before the levy, under
authority of a law of that State enacted in 1879, tendered the defendant in
payment of the taxes coupons cut from bonds of the State ; the rejoinder
set up a subsequent law of the State forbidding him to receive in payment
of taxes anything but gold, silver, United States treasury notes or national
bank currency : to this rejoinder the plaintiff demurred: Held, That this
raised a federal question sufficiently to lay the foundation for removing the
cause from a State court to the Circuit Court of the United States.

X'. WTrlliam L. Royal and /3'.Wager Swayne for plaintiff

in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
A writ of summons was issued out of the Circuit Court of
the City of Richmond by the plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, against the defendant, on May 2d, 1883, service of
which was aclnowledged by the defendant on the same day.
The -writ was returnable on the first Aonday in May, which was
the seventh day. On that day the plaintiff filed his declaration
in trespass vi et armn8, for entering upon the prenises of the
plaintiff, and taking and carrying away his personal property,
consisting of one table and one book-case, with the books
therein, of the value of $100, and for remaining on the premises
of the plaintiff for a long time, whereby the plaintiff was
greatly disturbed and annoyed in the peaceable possession
thereof, being his place of business, and hindered and prevented
from carrying on and transacting his lawful and necessary affairs and business, and for other wrongs and injuries; 'aying
the damage therefor at $6,000. To this declaration the defendant filed a plea in bar, justifying the alleged trespasses, by
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

setting out that the defendant, as treasurer of the city of Richmond, levied upon the personal property mentioned, in order to
sell the same, in satisfaction of certain taxes then due and owing
from the plaintiff to the State of Virginia, as by law it was his
duty to do. To this plea the plaintiff filed a replication, alleging a previous tender, in payment of said taxes, of coupons cut
from bonds issued by the State of Virginia, under the authority
of an act of the general assembly of that State, appkoved
M[arch 28th, 1879, said coupons being by that law receivable in
payment of said taxes; which, however, the defendant refused
to accept in payment thereof. To this replication the defendant rejoiiied that, by the act of the general assembly of the
State of Virginia, of January 26th, 1882, he was forbidden to
receive the said coupons tendered in payment of said taxes;
and to that rejoinder the plaintiff demurred. All these various
pleadings, including the declaration,, were flied on the same
day, and on.that day the plaintiff also filed his petition praying
for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Virginia, on the ground that
it arose under the Constitution of the United States, which was
accordingly done. The cause was docketed in the circuit court,
and on September 4th, 1883, it was, on motion of the defendant, remanded to the Circuit Court of the City of IRichipond.
To reverse the order of the Circuit Court of the United States
remanding the cause to the State court, this writ of error is
prosecuted.
The ground on which the order of the court below, remanding the cause, was placed, seems to have been that no federal
question, such as is necessary to confer jurisdiction in the case
upon the courts of the United States, appears to be necessarily
involved in the issue raised by the pleadings. In this we think
the court erred. The replication alleges that the coupons tendered contained an. express promise, as required by law, of the
State of Virginia, that they should be received in payment of
all taxes due to the State. The rejoinder is that the act of
January 26th, 1882, subsequently passed, expressly forbids the
defendant from receiving such coupons in payment of taxes.
The demurrer in effect denies the validity of that law, and upon

SMITH v. GREENHOW.
Opinion of the Court.

the record no ground of its invalidity can be inferred, except
that it is avoided by the operation of that provision of the
Constitution of the United States which forbids any State from
passing laws which impair the obligation of contracts. It
therefore sufficiently appears upon the record, that the plaintiff's case arises under the Constitution of the United States,
within the rule as laid down in Bridge _aprietorsv. loboker
Company, 1 Wall. 116-142.
There is a ground for remanding the cause suggested by the
record, but not sufficiently apparent to justify us in resorting
to it to support the action of the circuit court. The value of
the property taken is stated in the declaration to be but $100,
although the damages for the alleged trespass are laid at $6,000.
The petition for removal does not allege the sum or value of
the matter in dispute otherwise than by the statement of the
amount of the claim for damages. We cannot, of course, assume as a matter of law, that the amount laid, or a less
amount, greater than $500, is not -recoverable upon the case
stated in the declaration, and cannot therefore justify the
order remanding the cause, on the ground that the matter in
dispute does not exceed the sum or value of $500. But if the
circuit court had found, as matter of fact, that the amount of
damages stated in the declaration was colorable, and had been
laid beyond the amount of a reasonable expectation of recovery, for the purpose of creating a case removable under the act
of Congress, so that, in the words of the 5th section of the act
of 1875, it appeared that the suit "did not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the
jurisdiction of said circuit court," the order remanding it to the
State court could have been sustained.
The order of the circuit court remanding the cause to the
State court is reversed, and the cause is reinstated in that
court, with directions to proceed therein in conformity with
law.
And it is 8o ordered.

