MILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK.
Statement of Facts.

the action of the court below in refusing a new trial is not subject to review here. This has long been settled by the decisions
of this court. Railroad Co. v. Fralof,100 U. S. 24; Wabazh
Railway Co. v. .AchDanielM, 107 id. 456.
The judgment must be affirmed.
It i8 80 ordered.

MILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK and Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 6th, 183.-Declded November 26th, 1883.

ConstitutionalLaw-

avigable Watem--Nuiance.

1. A bridge erected over the East River, in the harbor of New York, in accord-

2.

3.

4.

5.

ance with authority derived from Congress and from the legislature of
New York, is a lawful structure which cannot be abated as a public
nuisance. So far as it obstructs navigation, it obstructs it under an authority which is empowered to permit the obstruction.
It is competent for Congress, having authorized the construction of a bridge
of a given height, over a navigable water, to empower the secretary of
war to determine whether the proposed structure will be a serious obstruction to navigation, and to authorize changes in the plan of the proposed structure.
When the head of an executive department is required by law to give information on any subject to a citizen, he may ordinarily do this through
subordinate officers in his department.
The navigable waters of the United States include such as are navigable in
fact, and which, by themselves or their connections, form a continuous
channel for commerce with foreign countries or among the States : Over
these Congress has control by virtue-of the power vested in it to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States.
The former cases, in which the court has considered the power of Congress to authorize the construction of bridges over navigable streams,
referred to and considered.

Bill in equity to abate a nuisance.

On the 16th of April, 1867, the legislature of New York
passed an act creating a corporation by the name of the New
York Bridge Company, for thc pur, ose of constructing and
VOL. cx -25

OCTOBER TERX, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

maintaining a permanent bridge over the East :River, between
the cities of New York and Brooklyn. Laws of 1861, chapter
399. The act, among other things, authorized the corporation
to acquire and hold so much real estate as might be necessary
for the site of the bridge, and of all piers, abutments, walls,
toll-houses, and other structures proper to it, and for the opening of suitable avenues of approach, but no land under water
beyond the pier lines established by law. It declared that the
bridge at the middle of the river should not be at a less elevation
than 130 feet above high tide, and should not be so- constructed
as to obstruct "the free and common navigation of the river;"
that it should not obstrict any street it might cross, but span
such street by an arch or suspended platform of suitable height
to afford passage under it for all purposes of public travel and
transportation; and that no street running on the line of the
bridge should be closed without full compensation to the owners
of the property upon it; and it designated the points of the
commencement and termination of the bridge.
On the 20th of February, 1869, the legislature passed an act
amending the act of incorporation and providing for the
representation of the two cities of New York and Brooklyn
in the board of directors of the bridge company, and directing
that the companyfshould proceed without delay to construct
the bridge, authorizing it for that purpose to use and occupy
so much of the lands under the water of the river, not exceeding a
front on either side of 250 feet, nor extending beyond the pier
lines, as might be necessary for the construction of the towers
of the bridge.
By the act of March 3d, 1869, 15 Stat. 336, ch. 139, Congress
authorized this work, and declared that when completed it
should be
"A lawful structure and post road for the conveyance of the
mails of the United States.' -Provided,That the said bridge shall
be so ponstructed and built as not to obstruct, impair, or injuriously modify the navigation of the river; and in order to secure
a compliance with these conditioins the company, previous to commencing thelconstruction of the bridge, shall submit to the secre-

MILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK.
Statement of Facts.
tary of war a plan of the bridge, with a detailed map of the river
at the proposed site of the bridge, and for the distance of a mile
above and below the site, exhibiting the depths and currents at
all points of the same, together with all other information touching said bridge and river as may be deemed requisite by the secretary of war to determine whether the said bridge, when built,
will conform to the prescribed conditions of the act, not to obstruct, impair, or -injuriously modify the navigation of the river.
"Src. 2. And be it further enacted, That the secretary of
war is hereby authorized and directed, upon receiving said plan
and map and other information, and upon being satisfied that a
bridge built on such plan, and at said locality, will conform to the
prescribed conditions of this act, not to obstruct, impair, or injuriously modify the navigation of said river, to notify the said
company that he approves the same, and upon receiving such
notification the said company may proceed to the erection of said
bridge, conforming strictly to the approved plan and location.
But until the secretary of war approve the plan and location of
said bridge, and notify said company of the same in writing, the
bridge shall not be built or commenced; and should any change
be made in the plan of the bridge during the progress of the
work thereon, such change shall be subject likewise to the
approval of the secretary of war."

The company complied with the provisions requiring them
to submit plans to the secretary of war. A commission, consisting of three officers of the engineer corps, was appointed by
the secretary of war to examine these plans. Their report
was submitted to the chief of the corps, who thereupon
addressed the following letter to the secretary of war:
"OFFICE

OF THE CHIEF ENGINEER,

"-ASHN

GTOI,

D. C., Atay 31st, 1869.

"Sin : The report, with accompanying papers, of the commission constituted by Specidl Order No. 72, from the adjutantgeneral's office, to examine and report upon the bridge proposed
to be built between the cities of New York and Brooklyn, is
herewith respectfully submitted to the secretary of war.
"After an examination of them and a careful consideration of
the subject, the conclusion at which I have arrived is, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883
Statement of Facts.
proposed bridge, if bilt subject to the conditions recommended
by the commission, with the prescribed height in the middle of
one hundred and thirty feet above mean high water of spring
tides, will conform to the requirements of the act of Congress,
Cnot to obstruct, impair or injuriously modify the navigation of
the river ;' and I recommend to the secretary of war approval
of the same. The phrase in the act of Congress, 'not to obstruct,
impair, or injuriously modify the navigation of the river,' was
prepared by myself, and with reference to the meaning attached
to those words by the best authorities, and they were, I believe,
used in the act with that understanding of them. I would further
recommend, that the bridge company be furnished with a copy of
the report of the commission.
"Very respectfully, your 6bedient servant.
"A. A. HuMPHREYS,
"Brigadier-General aid Chief of .Tnzgineers.
"Hon. JoHN A. RA~WINs,
"Secretary of Var."
The secretary of war returned this letter and the accompanyihg papers to the chief of engineers with this indorsement
thereon:
"WAn D EPARTMENT, Juzne 19th, 1869.
"Respectfully returned to the~chief of engineers, whose views
and recommendations, as well as those of the commission herein
referred to, are concurred in and approved, provided, that the
height of the centre of the main span of the bridge shall not be less
than 135 feet in the clear at mean high water of the spring tides ;
and provided further, that the structure shall conform in all other
respects to the conditions recommended by the commission.
"The chief of engineers will furnish th' bridge company with a
copy of the act establishing the bridge, a copy of the report of
the commission and of this report, and will notify the company
that the plan and location of the bridge are approved, subject to
the conditions herein imposed.

" (Signed)
•"!rW:n DEP., June 19th, 1869.

"Jwo. A. RAWLINs,
ISecretary of WTar."

Thereupon the chief of engineers addressed the following
letter to the president of the bridge company:

MILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK.
Statement of Facts.
"OFFICE

OF THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS,

"WASHINGTON,

"HoN. HENRY C.

D. C., June 21, 1869.

MURPHY,

".President New Y-ork -Bridge Company, Brooklyn, N . .
"SIR: I am directed by the secretary of war to inform the
New York Bridge Company that he approves the plan and location of the East River Bridge as reported by the company to the
commission instituted by orders from the war department, provided the bridge conform to the following condfiions, viz. :
"First. That the centre of the main span shall, under no
conditions of temperature or load, be less than one hundred and
thirty-five feet in the clear above mean high water of spring
tides, as established by the United States Coast Survey.
"Second. That the dimensions and coefficients of stability of
the various parts of the structure shall not be reduced below
those represented in the papers submitted to the commission
by the company or its agents.
"Third. That no portion of the grillage or enrockments of the
pier or tower foundations above the natural river-bed shall project beyond the pier lines, as established by the laws of the State
of New York.
"Fourth. That no guys or stays shall ever be attached to the
main span of the bridge, which shall hang below the bottom
chords thereof.
"These considerations must be strictly adhered to in building
the bridge.
"I am also instructed by the secretary of war to furnish the
bridge company copies of the act of Congress establishing the
bridge, of the report of the commission, and of the report of
the chief of engineers, all of which are enclosed herewith.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"1A. A.

HUMPHREYS,

"Brig. Gen. and Chief of -Engineers."

The bridge was built in substantial compliance with these
requirements; and the requirements of the legislature of New
York in the several acts relating to the bridge have all been
substantially complied with, and the bridge has been completed
and is now in public use.
The appellant is a lessee of warehouses on the East River

OCTOBER TERM, 1883..
Argument for the Appellant.

above the bridge. After the building of the bridge was far
advanced, and over $6,000,000 had been expended upon it, but
before completion, he began this suit in the court below, on behalf of himself and others similarly situated, setting forth that
the projected bridge would seriously impair and obstruct the
navigation of the East River, and praying to have it adjudged
to be a public nuisance, built without lawful authority, and the
defendants in the suit enjoined from completing and maintaining it.. Judgment being given against him in the court below,
this appeal was taken.
-Y. William f Arnoux for the appellant. I. The suit is
brought in the federal court by reason of the inherent jurisdiction which it-possesses over the subject-matter. The Passaic
Bridge, 3 Wall. 789; seePindarv. TFadworth,2 East, 154. The
special injury to the complainant resulting from the construction, of the bridge gives him a standing in a court of equity, to
have the work enjoined and declared a nuisance. An individual
receiving special damage from a public nuisance may maintain
an action on the case for it as if it were a private nuisance.
Wheeling Bridge Case, 13 How. 564; State v. I)ibble, 4 N. 0.
107; United States v. Nlew Bedford Bridge, 1 Woodb. & Min.
401 ; Rose v. .ies, 4 MY.& S. 101; Att'y-Gen. v. Birmingham,
4Kay & J. 528; Broadbentv. Im2eral Gas Co., 7 De G., M.
& G. 436; Cary v. Brooks, 1 Hill (S. 0.), 365; Coring v.
Lowerer, 6 Johns. Ch.439; Crowder v. Tinkler, 19 Ves. 618,
approved in Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91;
R. 1R., 17 Conn. 371; Smith v. Boslin,
O'Briemv. _Norwich, &c.,
7 Cush. 254, etc. This right of action of complainant is not
prejudiced by reason of any delay. Lapse of time does not
affect the right to abate a nuisance. Renwick v. jioris,3
Hill (N. Y.) 621; 5. C. aff'd, 7 Hill, 575; _Foler v. Chad, 3
Doug. 340; Scheete's Appeal, 35 Penn. 88; Russell on Crimes
(Ed. 1876), 274; _Nl1s v. 7all, 9 Wend. 315; Angell on.Tide
Waters, 116. II. As a fact the bridge does obstruct navigation. The people have the juspullcum to all navigable waters,
which is paramount to all other rights therein. The law contemplated that the secretary of war should act with reference

AMLLER v. MAYOR OF YEW YORK
Argument for the Appellant.

to this right. III. In construing the act conferring the power
on the secretary, it is to be remembered that public grants are
to be construed strictly. Bridge Companyv. Bobokenr Company,
13 Beasley (N. J.) 81; S. C. ib. 503; and that nothing passes
by legislative grant unless it is contained in express words,
and that if a proviso is repugnant to the grant the grant
fails. IV. The power conferred upon the secretary of war by
the act of Congress in question, was not to finally determine
whether the bridge, as then proposedto be built, would obstru6t,
impair or injuriously modify the navigation of the East River,
blit it was to authorize him to grant permission for the construction of the bridge, leaving to the proper tribunals the
determination of the fact whether such bridge was an obstruction. V. The Congress of the United States had no constitutional power or authority to erect the secretary of war,
or any other official member of the executive, into a; legal
tribunal to determine the force and effect of any statute passed
by Congress. Under the Constitution, such judicial determination must be confined to the judiciary. Mfarbury v. .adi8on,
1 Cranch, 137; -Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497. VI. The
only authority conferred upon the secretary of war by the
act of Congress in question to approve the bridge was predicated upon the prescribed conditions, that the said bridge
should be so constructed and built as not to 9bstruct, impair,
or injuriously modify the navigation, of the East River, and
that he should be satisfied that the said bridge would conform
to the prescribed conditions. And as the proofs show that the
secretary of war was satisfied that the bridge, as then proposed to be and now is constructed, would not conform to the
prescribed conditions, he had no power whatever in the premises to notify the bridge company that he approved the, same,
and such notification, if it had been given, would have been
utterly null and void. VIH The condition precedent imposed by
the act before the bridge could be. constru'cted has never be.n
complied with. The secretary of war -could not devolve his
duties upon a subordinate. Iyon v. Jerome, 26 Wend. 485;
Board of Excde v. Rike,, 35 N. Y. 154.
.M. Jo8epk ff. Choate for the appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
JusTIcE FiELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was commenced in May, 1876, to restrain the
erection of the suspension bridge, then under construction, over
East River, in the State of New York, between the cities of
New York and Brooklyn, at the height of 135 feet above the
river at high-water mark, which was the proposed elevation of
the structure. As the bridge has since been completed, if the
plaintiff can make good his contention, and establish that when
he fied his bill he was entitled to the relief prayed, he may
claim that the bridge shall be raised to a greater elevation, or
be entirely abated. H6 is the lessee of certain warehouses on
the banks of the river above the point of the proposed crossing
of the bridge, and he states that he brings the suit on behalf of
himself and of all others similarly situated. No one, however,
has united with him in its prosecution. He stands alone as.complainant, and alleges that the bridge, if erected as projected
and intended at the height designated, would be built without
lawful power and authority; that it would be a nuisance, and
obstruct, impair, and injuriously modify the navigation of the
river, and might seriously and prejudically affect the commerce
of the port of New York; that merchant vessels from the New
England States and British Provinces, and from ports south of
New York, and vessels engaged.in foreign commerce, pass and
repass on the river the intended location of the bridge; that the
masts of a large proportion of these vessels exceed 135 feet in
height; and that the expense to them of striking parts of their
masts in passing under the bridge, if built as proposed, with the
detention and additional towage rendered necessary, would be
so great as to destroy his warehouse business, aid be a private
and irreparable injury to him, for which an action at law would
afford no adequate redress. He accordingly prays an adjudication of the court upon the character and effect of the proposed
bridge in conformity with these allegations, and an injunction
restraining the further prosecution of the work of building it at
the height of 135 feet above mean high water, or at-any other
height that would obstruct, impair, or injuriously modify the
navigation of the river.
The court below-did not find in the allegations of a possible

MR.

MIILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

loss to the plaintiff in his warehouse business, or in the proofs
offered to sustain them, sufficient ground to restrain the completion of the work. It dismissed his complaint as being
without substantial merit.
We approve of its action and decree. The erection of the
bridge at the elevation proposed was authorized by the action
of both the State and federal governments. It would, therefore, when completed, be a lawful structure. If, as now completed, it obstructs in any respect the navigation of the river,
it does so merely to an extent permitted by the only authorities
which could act upon the subject. And the injury then apprehended and alleged by the plaintiff, and now sustained, is only
such as is common to all persons engaged in commerce on the
river, and doing business on its banks, and therefore not the
subject of judicial cognizance. These conclusions will clearly
appear by a reference to the legislation under which the work
was commenced and prosecuted.
[The learned justice then reviewed the facts which are above
set forth, and continued:]
It is contended by the plaintiff with much earnestness that
the approval of the secretary of war of the plan and location
of the bridge was not conclusive as to its character and effect
upon the navigation of the river, and that it was still open to
him to show that, if constructed as proposed, it would be an
obstruction to such navigation, as fully as though such approval
had not been had. It is argued that Congress could not give
any such effect to the action of the secretary, it being judicial
in its character. There is in this position a misapprehension of
the purport of the act. By submitting the matter to the
secretary, Congress did not abdicate any of its authority to
determine what should or should not be deemed an obstruction to the navigation of the river. It simply declared
that, upon a certain fact being established, the bridge should
be deemed a lawful structure, and employed the secretary of
war as an agent to ascertain that fact. Having power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States, and navigation being a branch of that commerce, it has
the control of all navigable waters between the States, or con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

nesting with the ocean, so as to preserve and protect their free
navigation. Its~power, therefore, to determine what shall not
be deemed, so far as that commerce is concerned, an obstruction, is necessarily paramount and conclusive. It may in direct
terms declare absolutely, or on conditions, that a bridge of
a particular height shall not be deemed such an 6bstruction;
and, in the latter case, make its declaration take effect wher
those conditions are complied with. The act in question, in
requiring the approval of the secretary before the construction
of the bridge was permitted, was not essentially different from
a great mass of legislation directing certain measures to be
taken upon the happemng of particular contingencies or the
ascertainment of particular information. The execution of
a vast number of measures authorized by Congress, and carried
out under the direction of heads of departments, would be defeated if such were not the case. The efficiency of an act
as a declaration of legislative will must, of course, come from
Congress, but the ascertainment of the contingency upon which
the act shall take effect may be left to such agencies as it may
designate. South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 13.
It is also objected that the notice given by the chief engineer
to the company was not a compliance with the requirement
that notification should be given by the secretary; but there is
no force in the objection. When a secretary of the government is.
required to give information on any subject, he may
act, and generally does act, through officers under him. Ile is
not expected to make over his own signature all the communications required from the department of which he is the head.
It would be impracticable for him to do so. The official communication is deemed made by him when it ismade under his
sanction and direction.
The bridge being constructed in accordance witIr the legislation of both the State and federal governments must be
deemed a lawful structure. It cahnot, after suich legislation, be
treated as a public nuisance; and however much it may interfere with the public right of nwvigation in the East River, and
thereby affect the profits or business of private persons, it cannot, on that ground, be the subject of complaint before the

MILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

courts. The plaintiff is not deprived of his property nor of the
enjoyment of it; nor does he from that cause suffer any
damage different in character from the rest of the public. He
alleges that his business of a warehouse-keeper on the banks of
the river above the bridge will be in some degree lessened by
the delay attending the passage under it of vessels with high
masts. The inconvenience and possible loss of business from
this cause are not different from that which others on the banks
of the river above the bridge may suffer. Every public improvement, whilst adding to the convenience of the people at
large, affects more or less injuriously the interests of some. A
new channel of commerce opened, turning trade into it from
other courses, may affect the business and interests of persons
who live on the old routes. A new mode of transportation
may render of little value old conveyances. Every railway in
a new country interferes with the business of stage coaches and
side-way taverns; and it would not be more absurd for their
owners to complain of and object to its construction than for
parties on the banks of the East River to complain of and object to the improvement which connects the two great cities on
the harbor of New York.
Several cases have been before this court relating to bridges
over navigable waters of the United States, in which questions
were raised as to the authority by which the bridges could be
constructed, the extent to which they could be permitted to
obstruct the free navigation of the waters, and the right of
private parties to interfere with their construction or continuance. In these cases all the questions presented in the case at
bar have been considered and determined, and what we hereafter say in this opinion will be little more than a condensation
of what was there declared. The power vested in Congress to
regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States includes the control of the navigable waters of the United
States so far as may be necessary to insure their free navigation;
and by "navigable waters of the United States" are meant
such as are navigable in fact, and which by themselves or their
connection with other waters form a continuous channel for
commerce with foreign countries or among the States. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 551. East River is such a navigable
water. It enters the harbor of New York and connects it with
Long Island Sound. Whatever, therefore, may be necessary
to preserve or improve its navigation the general government
may direct; and to that end it can determine what shall and
what shall not be deemed an interference with or an obstruction
to such navigation.
In the Wheeling Bridge case, a bridge erected over the Ohio
River at Wheeling, under an act of the legislature of Virginia,
which prevented the passage of steamboats with high chimneys,
was judged to be an unlawful structure; and the court ordered
that it should be raised so as to afford a free passage to the
steamers, or that some other plan should be adopted, by a day
designated, which would relieve the navigation from the obstruction, or that the bridge should be abated. Congress thereupon interfered and declared* the bridge, as it was built at its
existing elevation, to be a lawful structure. The court then
held that the objection to the bridge as an obstruction to the
navigation of the river was removed; that although it might
still be an, obstruction in fact, it was not so in contemplation of
law, and the decree of the court for the abatement of the
bridge could not be enforced. "There was no longer," said
the court, "any interference with the enjoyment of the public
right, inconsistent with the law, no more than there would be
where the plaintiff himself had consented to it after the rendition of the decree." For its interference with the public use of
the stream no individual could complain, as the power which
could control and regulate that use had made the structure
creating thQ interference a lawful one. 18 How. 430.
The case of Gilman v. Philade/phie, 3 Wall. '13, is much
stronger than the Wheeling Bridge case, and is conclusive
against the pretensions of the plaintiff. It there appeared that
a bridge was about to be built over the Schuylkill River, at
Chestnut street, in the city of Philadelphia, under the authority
of an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, when a party owning valuable coal wharves just above Chestnut street filed a bill
to prevent its erection, alleging, as in the present case, that it
would be n unlawful obstruction to the navigation of the

MILLER v. MAYOR OF NEW YORK.

397"

Opinion of the Court

river and a public nuisance, inflicting upon him special damage,
and claiming that he was entitled to be protected by an injunction to restrain the progress of the work, and -to a decree of
abatement should it be completed. The river was tide water
and navigable to the wharves of the plaintiff by vessels drawing
from 18 to 20 feet of water; and, for years, commerce to them
had been carried on in all kinds of vessels. The bridge was to
be only 30 feet high and without draws, and, of course,. would.
cut off all ascent above it of vessels carrying masts. The city
justified its intended action under the act of the legislature,
setting up that the bridge was a necessity for public convenience
to a large population residing on both sides of the stream.
The court below dismissed the bill, and this court affirmed its
decree, holding that as the river was wholly within her limits
the State could authorize the construction of a bridge .until
Congress should by appropriate legislation interfere and assume
control of the subject. In giving its opinion the court observed •
that it should not be forgotten that bridges which are connecting parts of turnpikes, streets, and railroads, are means of commercial transportation as well as navigable waters, and that
the commerce over them may be greater than on the water;
that it was for the municipal power to determine which should
be preferred, and how far either should be made subservient to
the other; and that this power could be exercised by the State
until Congress interfered and took control of the matter. All
the considerations which governed the decision of that case
operate with equal, if not greater, force in the present case. In
that case different parts of a city separated by a navigable
water were connected by a bridge; in this case two.cities thus
separated are united. In that case the obstruction was com-plete and permanent to all vessels having masts; in this case
the obstruction does not exist except to a limited class of
vessels having high masts, and to them it is little more than a
temporary inconvenience. In that case there was no approval
of the structure by Congress, except such as may be inferred
from its silence; in this case there is its direct authorization of
the bridge after a careful consideration of its effect upon navigation by a commission of distinguished engineers. In that

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

case the bridge was held to be a lawfAl structure against all
private parties, the federal government alone having the right
to object to the obstruction to the navigation of the river which
it might cause and to remove it; in this case that government
does not object, but approves and sanctions the structure; and
the plpblic benefit from it far outweighs any inconvenience
arising from its interference with the navigation of the stream.
The recent case of Escanabz Comrpany v. Ckicago, 107 U. S.
678, follows the decision in Gilman v. -Phila&4phia,and is
equally pointed and decisive.
In the light of these cases (and others of the same purport
might be cited) the claim' of the plaintiff that the construction
of the great work which was to connect, and which has since
connected, the cities of New York and Brooldyn should have
been suspended, appears to be wholly without merit.
The decree of the court below dismiwaing M8~ bill i8 cafflrmed.

Xr_3EPHIS GAS LIGHT COMPA-NY v. TAXING DISTRICT OF ShELBY COUNTY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF TENNESSEE.

Submitted November 15th, 1883.-Decided November 26th, 1883.

Co&onitulionaZ Law--Contract-Taxation.
1. The legislative grant of a privilege to erect, establish and construct gas
works, and make and vend gas in a municipality for a term of years,
does not exempt the grantees from the imposition of a license tax for the
use of the privilege conferred.
2. In order to,establish a legislative contract to exempt from taxation, the stat. ute must be explicit and unmistakable, and without doubtful words.
3. The Constitution of the United States does not profess in all cases to protect against unjust or oppressive taxation.

The facts and the contentions of the parties are stated in the
opinion of the court.
.r. Hery Craft, -r. Geo. Gaunt and _Yr. Jo8iaA Pattemon
for plaintiffs in error.

