OCTOBER TERM, 188.

618

Statement of Facts.

SWEENEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted November 13th, 188.-Decided December 17th, 1888.

Contract.
1. When a contract with the United States for building a wall provides that
payment for the work contracted for shall not be made until an agent, to
be designated by the United States, certifies that it is in all respects as contracted for, and after completion of work the designated agent refuses to
give the certificate, and there is no fraud, nor such gross mistake as
would necessarily imply-bad faith, nor failure to exercise honest judgment on the part of the agent, the engineer's certificate is a condition
precedent to payment.
2. The ruling in Kihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S.898, adhered to, and applied to this case.

Suit to recover the price of a'wall built by the appellant
around the National Cemetery, at, Fort Harrison, Virginia.
The plaintiff contracted to construct the wall by a written
agreement, of-which the following were the material parts:
First. That the said A. W. Sweeney shall build a wall of brick
at the National Military Cemetery at Fort Harrison, Virginia,
according to the plans and snecifications attached to this
contract.
Fourth. It is agreed that from time to time, and when completed, the said wall shall be inspected by an officer of the U. S.
Army, or by a civil engineer or other agent, to be designated by
the party of the first part, and after such Officer, or civil engineer,

or other agent, shall have certified that it is .in all respects as contracted for, it shall be received and* become the property of the
United States.

Sixth. It is agreed that upon inspection and report of materials
furnished, or work done, during the performance of this contract,
payment in part may be made to the contractor, said payment in
no case to exceed 80 per cent. of the estimated value of the material
and work actually furnished.
The following were the material findings of the court of

SWEENEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

claims in regard to the work for which payment was demanded

in this actiom
XIII. After the completiqn of the wall as aforesaid the said
Chenoweth, under orders, inspected the same, and made the
following report :
Ricn oND, VA., Oct. 22d, 1874.
Col. A. F. Rocwa.ELL,

A.

Q. f., V". S. A.:

Sin: I have the honor to report a visit this. day, with Capt. T.
J. Eckerson, to the Fort Harrison National Cemetery.
Mr. Sweeney, contractor for the enclosing wall, has entirely
completed the work, without paying any attention whatever to the
instructions given him relative to the material to be used, nor has
he paid any attention to the order of the quartermaster-general
with regard to the gate-posts.
The condemned material has been used, and I consider the workmanship is very unsatisfactory.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G. D. CHENOWBTH,
Civil Eng'r.
XIV. In consequence of this report the wall so constructed was
taken down by order of the quartermaster-general, and a new
wall, made of other material, was constructed in its place. The
cost of the new wall was $7,829.03. It was not shown that the
claimant had any notice of the intent to take down the wall constructed by him, or that any further opportunity was offered him
to correct or remedy any defects or errors therein, or that there was
any other attempt to complete the wall in accordance with the terms
of the contract.
XV. It was not shown that there was any fraud, or any such
gross mistake as would necessarily imply bad faith, or any failure
to exercise an honest judgment on the part of the said Chenoweth
in making the inspections hereinbefore referred to or set forth.
XVI. No officer of the army of the United States, nor civil
engineer, nor other agent of the United States, has ever certified
that the said wall constructed by the claimant was in all respects
as contracted for, or in any respect as contracted for, other than as
shown by the said reports of the said Chenoweth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

XVII. The claimant then offered evidence tending to show that
the wall as completed by him was in compliance with the requirements of the contract ; but the court refused to hear such evidence,
or to make any finding on that subject.
Mr. lRomas IF Bartley and 21. Milton I. Southard for
appellant.
S .A8&3tasnt Attoey-General Xaury for United States.
Mn. CIrF JusTIoE WA=

delivered the opinion of the court.

This judgment is affirned on the authority of "Cihlberg v.
United State8, 97 U. S. 398. It was provided in the contrat
that payment for the wall was not to be made until some officer
of the army, civil engineer, or other agent, to.be designated by
the United States, had certified, after inspection, "that it was
in all respects as contracted for." The officer of the army
designated under this authority expressly refused to give the
necessary certificate, on the ground that neither the material nor
the workmanship were such as the contract required. The
court below found that there was neither fraud, nor such gross
mistake as would necessarily imply bad faith, nor any failure
to exercise an honest judgment on the part of the officer in
making his inspections. The appellant was notified of the
defective character of the material, and that it would not be
accepted, before he put it into the wall, and after he had completed his work the wall which he constructed was taken down
by order of the quartermaster-general and a new one made of
other material built in its place.

dTuddqment affl~rmed.

