SNYDER v. AIARKS.
Statement of Facts.

SN-YDER v. hARKS, Collector.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted November lst, 1883.-Decided November 15th, 1883.

Equity-Injuwt-on-Iternal Revenue-Taxes.
A bill in equity will not lie to enjoih a collector of internal revenue from
collecting a tax assessed by the commissioner of internal revenue against a
manufacturer of tolecco, although the tax is alleged in the bill to have
been illegally assessed.
The remedy of a suit to recover back the tax after it is paid, which the
statute provides, is exclusive.

This suit was brought in a State-court of Louisiana, by the
appellant, a tobacco manufacturer, against the appellee, a
collector of internal revenue, to obtain an injunction restraining
the appellee from seizing and selling the property of the
appellant to pay two assessments of taxes against him, made by
the commissioner of internal revenue, and to have the assessments declared void. An injunction having been granted ex
_part-, the appellee removed the suit, by certiorari,into the
Circuit Court of the United- States for the District of Louisiana,
on the allegation that it was brought- on account of acts done
-by the appellee, as such collector, under authority of the
internal revenue laws of the United States, and to enjoin him,
in his official capacity, from enforcing the payment of assessments made against the appellant, under authority of such
laws,. by executing warrants of distraint, as authorized by such
laws.
After the removal of the suit the appellant, under an order to
reform his pleading, filed a bill in equity in the circuit court.
It set forth the assessments complained of as being in these
words:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
'c ALPHABETICAL

LIST OF PERSONS LIABLE TO TAX

UNDER THE INTERNAL

REVENUE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES, IN THE COLLECTION DISTRICT OF
THE STATE OF LOUISIANA, REPORTED BY THE COLLECTOR OF SAID DISTRICT
FOR ASSESSMENTS, AND THE AMOUNT ASSESSED AGAINST EACH DY THE COiiMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, AND CERTIFIED TO THE COLLECTOR OF
SAID DISTRICT, FOR THE MONTH OF OCTOBER,

NAXE.

P. 0. ADDRESS

ARTIC
oI OCCUPATION.

1879.

PERIOD.

TAX AsSESSED.

Snyder, Chas.A New Orleans... S.T. Tob. 7,800M lbs... July 6,'7,to $1,872 1Irwin &Snyder....
d ....
o.... 6,657lbs.... Dec.38 '78.1
Tan. 1,078,ta 1,59768
June Z, ' .

TOTAL TAX
AND PE.ALTTASSESSNID.

$1,872
12
1,597
68

"Made Nov. 17, 1879."
The bill also averred that the assessments did not show upon
what they were based, nor upon what the taxes were claimed
to be due, and were void for uncertainty and unauthorized
by law, an'd the commissioner of internal revenue was without
jurisdiction to make them; that the Irwin & Snyder assessment was made more than fifteen months after the time which
it embraced had elapsed, and that was true, also, as to a part of
the Snydei assessment, and the commissioner had no authority
to make an assessment except for a period of time not exceeding fifteen months before it was made; that the appellant was
never a member of the finn of Irwin & Snyder; that he never
owed the amount of either assessment; that, when he commenced the manufacture of tobacco, he gave a bond to the
United States in a penalty of $20,000, conditioned that he
would stamp all tobacco manufactured by him, as required by
law, and comply with all the requirements of law relating
to the manufacture of tobacco, and the sureties thereon were
solvent, and that, if the United States had any lawful claim
against him, an action would lie on the bond, which was ample
security, while he was without adequate remedy against the
United States for the seizure of his property to pay the claims.
The prayer of the bill was for a decree declaring each of the
assessments void as against the appellant, and enjoining the

SNYDER v. MARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

appellee from distraining on the property of the appellant
for the purpose of collecting the amounts of the assessments,
and from attempting to collect the same except by judicial
process.
The appellee demurred to the bill for want of equity, and because no suit could be maintained if any court to restrain the
collection of any tax of the United States, and the appellant
could not be'permitted in this suit to attack the validity or
regularity of the assessments or restrain the execution of a
warrant issued thereunder. The circuit court sustained the
demurrer and dismissed the bill. To review its decree this
appeal is brought.
MrM.
J. -). Roue and .Mr. TF Grant for the appellant.

.Xr. Solicitor-Genwa, Pifflip8 for the appellee.
Mn. JuSTiE BLATCiOmD delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the facts, he said:
The sole object of the suit is to iestrain the collection of a
tax which purports to have been assessed under the internal
revenue laws. A decree adjudging the tax to be void as
against the appellant is sought for only as preliminary to relief
by injunction, and would be futile for any purpose of this suit
unless followed by an injunction.
The internal revenue act of July 13th, 1866, c. 184, 14 Stat.
152, provided, § 19, as follows: "No su:t shall be maintained
in any court for the recovery of any tax alleged to have been
erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, until appeal shall
have been duly made to the commissioner of internal revenueaccording to the provisions of law in that regard, and the
regulations of the secretary of the treasury, established in
pursuance thereof, and a decision of said commissioner shall be
had thereon, unless such suit shall be brought' within six
months from the time of said decision, or within six months
from the time this 4et takes effect: Provi&ed, That if said de:
cision shall be delayed more than six months from the date of
such appeal, then said suit may be brought at any time within
twelve months from the date of such appeal." By . 10 of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
act of March 2d, 1867, c. 169, 14 Stat. 475, it was enacted that
§ 19 of the said act of 1866 be amended "by adding the following thereto :" ""And no suit for.the purpose of restraining the
assessment or collection of tax shall b6 maintained in any
court." -In the Revised Statutes this amendment of and adlition
to § 19 of the act of 1866 'is made a section by itself, § 3224,
separated from that of which it is an amendment and to
which it is an.addition, and reads thus: " No suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any tax
shall be maintained in any court." The word "any" was inserted by the revisers. This enactment in § 3224 has a no
more restricted meaning than it had when, after the act of
1867, it formed a part of § 19 of the act of 1866, by being added
thereto; .The first part of § 19 related to a suit torecover back
money paid for a "tax alleged to have been erroneously or ilegaily assessed or collected," and the section, after thus providing
for the circumstances under which such a suit might be brought,
proceeded, when amended, to say, that "no suit for the purpose
of restraining the assessment or collection of tax shall be maintained in any court." The addition of 1867 was in pari
matriawith the previous part of the section and related to the
same subject-matter. The "tax" spoken of in the first part of
the section was called a "tax" 8ub modo, but was characterized
as a "tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or collected." Hence, when, on the addition to the
section, a "tax" was spoken of, it meant that which is in a
condition to be collected as a tax, and is claimed by the proper
public officers to be a tax, although on the other side it is
alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed. It has
no other meaiing in § 3224. There is, therefore, no force in
the suggestion that § 3224, in speaking of a "tai," means only
a legal tax; and that an illegal tax is not a tax, and so does
not fall within the inhibition of the statute, and the collection
of it may be restrained.
The statute clearly applies to the present suit, and forbids
the granting of relief by injunction. It is distinctly alleged in
the bill, that the appellee claims that the appellant owes to
the United States the amounts assessed for taxes, both the tax

SNYER v. MARKS.
Opinion of the Court.

assessed against the appellant and that assessed against Irwin
& Snyder. The bill also shows sufficiently that the assessment
had relation to the business of the appellant as a manufacturer
of tobacco, and to his liability to tax, under the internal
revenue laws, in respect to such business. The instructions of
the internal revenue department in regard to the preparation
of assessment lists provided, that where an assessment was reported against a manufacturer of tobacco for hfaing removed
any taxable articles from his manufactory without the use
of the proper stamp, or for not having duly paid such tax by
stamp at the time and in the manner provided by law, the
entry in the column headed "article or occupation" should be
"Stamp Tax. Tob.," with liberty to use the initials "S. T." as
an abbreviation for "stamp tax." The instructions stated that
"Tob." is an abbreviation for "tobacco." Resort may be had
to these instructions to show the meaning of the abbreviations
in the assessment list. Read by the light of the instructions,
the list shows a tax which the appellant might be liable to
pay, and one which the commissioner had general jurisdiction
to assess against him.
The inhibition of § 3224 applies to all assessments of taxes,
made under color of their offices, by internal 'revenue officers
charged with general jurisdiction of the subject of assessing
taxes against tobacco manufacturers. ' The remedy of a suit to
recover back the tax after it is paid is provided'by statute, and
a suit to restrain its collection is forbidden. The remedy so
given is exclusive, and no other remedy can be substituted for it.
Such has been the current of decisions in the circuit courts of
the United States, and we are satisfied it is a correct view of
the law. Howland v. Soule, Deady, 413; Pullanv. Kin8inger,.
2 Abbott U. S. 94; Bobbins v. Freeland,14 it. Rev. Rec. 28;
Delaware1?. 1. Co. v. Prettyman,17 id. 99; United States v.
Black, 11 Blatchford, 538, 543; iessinger v. Bean, 'I Bissell,
60; United States v. Pacflo Railroad,4 Dillon, 66, 69; Alkan
v. Bean, 23 Int. Rev. Rec. 351; .Keneett v. Stivers, 18 Blatchford, 397. In Cheatham v. United States, 92 U. S. 85, 88, and
again in State Railroad Tax Cases,92 U. S.(575, 613, it was said
by this court, that the system prIescribed by the United States
VOL. cii-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

in regard to both ctstoms duties and internal revenue taxes,
of stringent measures, not judicial, to collect them, with
appeals to specified tribunals, and suits to recover back moneys
illegally exacted was a system of corrective justice intended to
be complete, and enacted under the right belonging to the
government to prescribe the conditions on which it would subject itself to the judgment of the courts in the collection of its
revenues. In the exercise of that right, it declares, by' § 3224,
that its officers shall not be enjoined from collecting a tax
claimed to have been. unjustly assessed, when those officers, in
the course of general jurisdiction over the subject matter in
question, have made the assignment and claim that it is valid.
The decree.of the circuit court i8 aflflned.

ORAGIN v. LOVELL, Executor.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

SAME

. SAME.

APPEAL FROM THE SAME COURT.
Argued together November 1st, 188.--Declded November 12th, 1888.
Action-Gontracd--Defaut-Equity-Frror,writ of--udgment-Louisiana
Code-Principaland .Agent-romis8oy .Note.
A defendant, against whom a judgment has been rendered on default by a

circuit court of the United States in an action at law, cannot maintain a
bill in equity to avoid it, upon the ground that the plaintiff at law falsely
and fraudulently alleged that the parties were citizens of different States,
without showing that the false allegation was unknown to him before the
judgment.
Upon a negotiable promissory note, made by an agent in his own name, and
not disclosing on its face the name of the principal, no action lies against
the principal.
In an action at law, the declaration alleged that the plaintiff sold land to a
third person, who gave his notes for the purchase money, secured by mortgage of the land ;.that afterward the defendant, in a suit by him against
that person, claimed the ownership of the land, and alleged that the other

