OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

MEATE v. BOARD OF MISSISSIPPI LEVEE COMMISSIOTERS.
IN EPMOR TO THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTEICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued November 8th, 188.-Decided November 19th, 1888.

Limitations-8miszpi Statute--actie.
1. When the court below finds generally for a defendant, and elso makes
special findings on the issues, no error can be assigned on the special
findings.
2. The subject of the actin in this suit being an instrument under seal, and
the cause having accrued in the State of Mississippi on the 1st day
of April, 1871, the action is subject to the provisions of the code of the
State of Mississippi of 1857 so far as it affects the limitation of the
action.
8. When it appeared in a suit prosecuted in the State of Mississippi that the
plaintiff at the time when the action was begun had no legal title to
the matter which was the subject of the suit, but acquired his interest
therein subsequently to the commencement of the suit, and judgment was
a matter of form"
rendered accordingly, that was not a judgment on ""
in the sense in which that expression is used in ยง 2163 of the Mississippi
Code of 1871 ; but one which may be pleaded in answer to another suit
brought for the same cause of action.

Action upon a sealed instrument.
The plaintiff in error, Patrick G. Meath, who was the plaintiff below, brought this suit, on December 21st, 1818, against the

Board of Mississippi Levee. Commissioners. It was founded on
a contract in writing, under seal, between Meath and the defendants, dated April 13th, 1869, by which Meath covenanted to

construct certain levees in the State of Mississippi on or before
April 1st, 1871, and the defendants covenanted to pay him a

specified price per cubic yard in coupon bonds of the board of
levee commissioners maturing on January 1st, 1876.
The declaration averred that the plaintiff expended large
sums of money in the purchase of tools, etc., for the performance of said work, and whilehe was actually engaged therein,

and with ample means to accomplish it, the defendants, on
January 10th, 180, without any fault or negligence of plaintiff,

ordered and coerced him to desist from work on said levees

MEATH v. MISSISSIPPI COMMISSIONERS.
Statement of Facts.

until further orders from them; that he was ready, able, and
willing to "go' on with the work, and remained awaiting the
orders of the defendants until April 1st, 1871, and was prevented from resuming the work by the wrongful acts of the
defendants.
The declaration further averred that "on March 26th, 1877,
plaintiff brought his suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi on said contract,
and the same was tried on or about April 5th, 1878, and was
defeated for matter of form, in this, to wit, because though it
appeared in the evidence that one Thomas Boyle had purchased, for the sole use and benefit of plaintiff, the said claim
under said covenant against defendants, at a sale thereof made
by plaintiff's assignee in bankruptcy, the formal assignment
made by him to plaintiff had not in fact been executed and
delivered until after the bringing of said action, though antedated to conform to the fact, and, therefore, that the said
action should have been brought in the name of the said Boyle,
for plaintiff's use."
The plaintiff claimed in the present action the sum of $70,000
as due him for work done and accelted under said contract,
and a large sum for damages, because he was not permitted to
complete the work.
The defendant filed eight pleas, but as the judgment of the
court below was based exclusively on the sixth and seventh
pleas, the others need not be noticed. The sixth plea averred
that "the several supposed causes of action in said declaration
mentioned, if any such there were or still are, did not, nor did
any or either of them, accrue to the said plaintiff at any time
within seven years next preceding the commencement of this
suit."
The seventh plea set out the facts in regard to such former
suit, begun March 26th, 1877, referred to in the declaration,
denied that it was decided against the plaintiff for matter of
form only, and averred that it was so decided on matter of
substance; and concluded by averring that "the present action
was not brought within seven years after the cause of action
accrued," and was, therefore, barred by the statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

The plaintiff demurred to these pleas, and his demurrer was
overruled. Thereupon he filed his replication taking issue.
The parties waived a jury and submitted the issues of fact to
the court by the following agreement:
"In this cause a jury is waived, and it is agreed to submit the
cause to the court in. lieu of a jury, to be decided on the law and
the evidence, and separate findings thereof to be rendered by the
court, so that the decision may be finally reviewed by the
Supreme Court of the United States. The court having, in the
decision of the questions arising upon the demurrers to sixth and
seventh pleas filed, expressed the opinion that the pending of the
former suit could not be" availed of to prevent the bar of the
statute of limitations, and that this action is barred by limitation,
it is agreed that the sole question shall be presented upon
the pleadings and proof, and that only such evidence as in the
judgment of the court bears upon that issue shall be incorporated
in its findings and presented to the Supreme Court of the United
States ; and that the record for said court shall consist of the
pleadings and exhibits, the orders of the court, the findings of
fact and law in the cause, and this agreement.' And it is further
agreed that should the supreme court differ in opinion with and
reverse the circuit court, the cause shall be remanded for trial on
its merits on all the other questions in the case."
The cause was tried under this agreement and the court
made both a general and special finding of facts. The general
finding was ag follows:
"The court having heard the evidence upon the sixth and
seventh pleas, of 'the defendant, and replications thereto, &c.,
finds said issues in favor of defendants, and that said plaintiff's
right of action when this suit was brought was barred by the
statute of limitations."'
The court found, by its special findings, as follows: the
plaintiff's cause of action accrued in this case on April. 1st, 1871,
and, what the record also showed, this action was brought
*December 21st, 1878; on March 26th, 187, the plaintiff brought
-an action against the defendant on the contract set out in and

MEATH v. MISSISSIPPI COMMISSIONERS.
Opinion of the Court.

exhibited with the declaration in this cause; the defendant
pleaded a transfer of all interest in said contract to an assignee
in bankruptcy under the bankrupt law; to said plea the
plaintiff replied that his assignee in bankruptcy had sold the
said contract to one Boyle, who purchased it for the plaintiff,
and assigned it to him some time in January, 1877; issue
was joined on this replication ; this issue was 'submitted to
the court for trial; on the trial it was shown that the assignment by Boyle to Meath was made on January 28th, 1878; on
this state of facts the court found that the plaintiff did not have
the legal title to the claim sued on when the action was commenced; and judgment therein was rendered in that suit for
the defendants.
Upon the general and special findings, the court found, as
matter of law, that this action was barred by the limitation of
seven years, and rendered judgment for the defendants. To
this conclusion of law the plaintiff excepted, and sued out the
present writ of error.

.76r. fames Lowndes, for the defendants in error.
M__ JUsTicEnWooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
It is insisted, by the plaintiff in error, that the special findings of the court are fatally defective, because they do not ifud
the contract by which the suit was brought or fix the date
when the cause of action accrued, and that for this reason the
judgment of-the circuit court should be reversed. We might
dismiss this assignment of error on the ground that there was
a general finding for the defendants on all the isslies of fact,
and that no error can be assigned on such a finding. Tioga
Railroad v. Blom8burg. and Corning Railraad, 20 Wall. 137.
But the special findings also fix specifically the date when the
plaintiff's right of action accrued, to wit, on the first day-of
April, 1871. In considering the sufficiency of the special findings the stipulation between counsel, for submitting the cause
to the court, must be kept in mind. The 6nly questions which,
by this agreement, were to be submitted to the court were the
issues raised by the replication to the sixth and seventh pleas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

being pleas of the statute of limitations. The contract and
breaches, as set out in the declaration, were, for the purpose of
this trial, takeri for granted; they were confessed by the pleas,
and, as a matter of a-ioidance, the statute of limitations was set
up. The court by its general and special findings, has declared,
as a conclusion of fact, that the matters set up in the pleas of
the statute of limitations were proven. We think the findings
pass upon every issue submitted to the court, and that they are
not imperfect or defective.
The limitation law of Mississippi applicable to this case was
as follows:
"AnT. 6. All actions of debt or covenant founded upon any

bond, obligation or contract, under seal or upon the award of
arbitrators, shall be commenced within seven years next after the
cause of such action accrued, and not after."
The Revised Code of Mississippi of 1871 failed to provide
any limitation for causes of action under seal which arose after
October 1st, 1871, the date fixed by section, 2938, when that
code should take effect, but did contain the following
provision:
"SEC. 2172. The several periods of limitation prescribed by
this chapter shall commence from the date when it shall take
effect, but the same shall not apply to any action commenced nor
to any cses where the right of action or of entry shall have accrued before that time, but the same shall be subject to the laws
now in force; but this law may be pleaded in any case where a
bar has accrued under the provisions thereof."

It will appear from these provisions of the statute law that
the absence of any limitation of actions upon contracts under
seal, between October 1st, 1870, and April 19th, 1873, can have
no effect upon the controversy in this case. When the cause of
action in this case arose, as found by the court, to wit, on April
1st, 1871, article 6, page 400, 'of the Code of 1857, above quoted,
barring actions on sealed instruments in seven years, was in
force, and this limitation was expressly continued by the Revised Code of 1871.

MEATH v. ]ISSISSIPPI COMISSIONERS.

273

Opinion of the Court.

The case of .Furlongv. Te State, 58 Miss. 717, relied on by
counsel for plaintiff in error, can have no application to the
case, for in that suit the cause of action accrued after the Code
of 1871 had taken effect. Nothing was decided in that case
which has any bearing on this.
Therefore, upon the facts specially found, namely, that the
cause of action in this case accrued on April 1st, 1871, and that
this suit was not brought until December 21st, 1878, it is apparent that the sixth plea of defendant is sustained, unless this
case is saved by the averment in the declaration that the suit
was brought within a year after a former suit for the same
cause of action had been defeated for matter of form.
it is, therefore, to be considered whether, upon the special
findings, the plaintiff is entitled to the saving clause of section
2163 of the Code of 1871, which is as follows:
"If, in any action duly commenced within the time allowed,
the writ shall be abated, or the action otherwise avoided or defeated by the death or marriage of any party thereto, or for any
.the
plaintiff may commence a new
matter of form, ....
action for the same cause at any time within one year after the
abatement or other determination of the original suit."
The findings show that on March 26th, 1877, an action, in all
respects similar to this, was brought, on the same contract sued
on in this case, by the plaintiff in error against the same defendants, and that, upon the trial of that suit the couri found
that the plaintiff did not have the legal title to the claim sued
on when the said' action was commenced, and judgment was
accordingly rendered in favor of the defendant and against the

plaintiff.
Upon these findings the circuit court was of opinion in this
case that the former action was not defeated for any matter
of form, and therefore that the plaintiff's cause did not fall
within the exception of section 2173 of the Code of 1871, and
was barred by the limitation of seven years applicable to contracts under seal.
We are of opinion that the facts thus specially found sustain
the judgment of the circuit court in this case. The Supreme
voL. cIx-18

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

,Court of Mississip'pi, in the case of X. & C. 1. 1?. Co. v. Or0,
43 Miss. 279, has construed the phrase "for matter of form"
in section 2163, and -declared that it '"
relates to technical defects in the form of the. action, or pleadings, or proof, or to
variances between the one and the other."
This case it is evident does not fall within this rule. The
action brought by plaintiff on March 26th, 1877, was defeated
because it appeared from the proof that when it was brought
the plaintiff had no cause of action. The issue was deliberately
and squarely presented by the pleadings in that' former suit
whether at the time of its commencement the right of action
was in the plaintiff. The defendants averred it to be in the
plaintiff's assignee in bankruptcy. The plaintiff replied that
the contract on which his action was based had been bought at
the assignee's sale and assigned .to Thomas Boyle, who, before
the commencement of the action, to wit, in January, 1877, had
assigned and transferred it to him. On this the defendant took
issue; and -on.that issue the cause was tried.
Upon the trial it turned out that the assignment by Boyle to
the plaintiff'was not made until January 28th, 1878, more than
ten months after the action was brought, and the fiding and
judgmen o i the issue submitted was against the plaintiff and
for the defendant.'Upon this state of facts we think the former suit'was defeated, not for any matter of form, but for matter of substance.
The plaintiff failed in his action because the legal title to the
contract on which he brought his suit was in another, because
the evidence did not sustain the issue upon which he had staked
his.cause'. The present case, therefore, does not fall within the
exception prescribed by section 2137 of the Code of fississippi
of 1871, and is barred by the limitation of severL years prescribed by the Code of 1851, applicable to contracts under seal.

The judgwmnt of the circuit court =m'se be ,firined.

