556

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

EX PARTE CROW DOG.
ORIGINAL.
Noember 26th, 1883.-Decided December 17th, 1883.
Novrgued

Crimes-Imlian-India, Counfry-Re-1eal-tatues--Treaies.
1. The 1st Judicial District Court of Dakota, sitting as a circuit court of the
United States, has jurisdiction under the laws a he United States, over
offences made punishable by those laws comrffitted within that part of
the Sioux reservation which is within the limits of the Territory:
2. In the interpretation of statutes, clauses which have been repealed may still
be considered in construing provisions which remain in force.
3. The definition of the term "Indian Country," contained in c. 61, § 1 of the
act of 1834, 4 Stat. 729, though not incorporated in the Revised Statutes,
and though repealed simultaneously with their enactment, may be referred to in order to determine what is meant by the term when used in
statutes ; and it applies to all the country to which the Indian title has
not been extinguished within the limits of the United States, whether
within a reservation or not, and whether acquired before or since the
passage of that act.
4.The legislation of the United States may be constitutionally extended over
Indian country by mere force of a treaty, without legislative provisions.
5. Neither the provisions of article 1 in the treaty of 1868 with the Sioux, that
"if bad men among the Indians shall commit a wrong or depredation
upon the person or property of any one, white, black, or Indian, subject
to the authority of the United States and at peace therewith, the Indians
herein named solemnly agree that they will, upon proof made to their
agent and notice by him, deliver up the wrong-doer to the United States,
to be tried and punished according to its laws," nor any other provision
in that act, nor the provision"in article 8 of the agreement embodied in
the act of February 28th, 1877, c. 72, 19 Stat. 256, that they "shall be
subject to the laws of the United. States," nor any other provision in that
agreement or act, operated to repeal the provision of Rev. Stat. %2146,
which excepts from the general jurisdiction of courts of the United
States over offences committed in Indian country, "crimes committed
by one Indian against the person or property of another Indian," and
offences committed in Indian country by an Indian who has been punished by the local law of the tribe ; and offences where by treaty stipulations the exclusive jurisdiction over the same is or may be secured to the
Indian tribes respectively.
6.The objects sought to be accomplished by the treaty of 1868 with the Sioux,
and the humane purposes of Cbngress in the legislation of 1877, examined and shown to be inconsistent with the assumption of such a general
jurisdiction by the courts of the United States.

EX PARTE CROW DOG.
Opinion of the Court.
7. The doctrine that courts do not favor repeals of statutes by implication reasserted and authorities referred to. Especially a court of limited and
special jurisdiction should not take jurisdiction over a case involving
human life, through an implied repeal of a statute denying it, when
the words relied on are general and inconclusive: and the fact that to
hold that a statute repeals by implication a previous act would reverse
a well settled policy of Congress, justifies the courts in requiring a clear
expression of the intention of Congress in the repealing act.

Petition for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari.
.31>. A. J Plowmnan for petitioner.
.31>. AS'olcitor-Gcneralfor United States.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioner is in the custody of the marshal of the United
States for the Territory of Dakota, imprisoned in the jail of
Lawrence County, in the First Judicial District of that Territory,
under sentence of death, adjudged against him by-the district
court for that district, to be carried into execution January
14th, 1$84. That judgment was rendqred upon a conviction
for the murder of an Indian of the Brule Sioux band of the
Sioux nation, of Indians, by the name of Sih-ta-ge-le-Scka, or
in English, Spotted Tail, the prisoner also being an Indian, of
the same band and nation, and the homicide having occurred
as alleged in the indictment, in the Indian country, within a
place and district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of
the United States and within the said judicial district. The
judgment was affrmed, on a writ of error, by the Supreme
Court of the Territory. It is claimed on behalf of the prisoner
that the crime charged against him, and of which he stands
convicted, is not an offence under the laws of the United
States; that the district court had no jurisdiction to try him,
and that its judgment and sentence are void. He therefore
prays for a writ of habeas corpus, that he may be delivered
from an imprisonment which he asserts to be illegal.
The indictment is framed upon section 5339 of the Revised
Statutes. That section is found in title LXX.; on the subject
of crimes against the United States, and in chapter three, which
treats of crimes arising within the maritime and territorial
AIR. JUSTICE :MirHEws

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1882.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of the United States. It provides that "every person who commits murder,
within any fort, arsenal,
dock-yard, magazine, :r in any other place or district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States,
S

.

.shall

suffer death."

Title XXVII. of the :Revised Statutes relates to Indians,
and the sub-title of chapter four is, Government of Indian
Country. It embraces many provisions regulating the subject
of intercourse and trade with the Indians in the Indian country,
and imposes penalties and punishments for various violations of
them. Section 2142, provides for the punishment of assaults
with deadly weapons and intent, by Indians upon white persons, and by white persons upon Indians; section 2143, for the
case of arson, in like cases; and section 2144 provides that "the
generql laws of the United States defining and prescribing punishments for forgery and depredations upon the mails shall
extend to the Indian country."
The next two sections are as follows:
"SEc. 2145. Except as to crimes, the punishment of which is
expressly provided for in this title, the general laws of the United
States as to the punishment of crimes committed in any place
within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States,
except the District of Columbia, slall extend to the Indian country.
Suc. 2146. The preceding sectioii shall not be construed to extend to [crimes committed by one Indian against the person or
property of another Indian, nor to] any Indian committing any
offence in the Indian country who has been punished by the local
law of the tribe, or to any case where by treaty stipulations the
exclusive jurisdiction over such offences is or may be secured to
the Indian tribes respectively."

That part of section 2146 placed within .brackets was in the
act of 27th March, 1854, c. 26, § 3, 10 Stat. 270, was omitted
-bythe revisers in the original revision, and restored by the act
of 18th February, 1815, c. 80, 18 Stat. 318, and now appears in
the second edition of the Revised Statutes. It is assumed for
the purposes of' this opinion that the omission in the. original

EX PARTE CROW DOG.
Opinion of the Court.

revision was inadvertent, and that the restoration evinces no
other intent on the part of Congress than that the provision
should be considered as in force, without interruption, and not
a new enactment of it for any other purpose than to correct the
error of the revision.
The district courts of the Territory of Dakota are invested
with the same jurisdiction in all cases arising under the laws
of the United States as is vested in the circuit and district
courts of the United States. Rev. Stat. §§ 1907-1910. The
reservation of the Sioux Indians, lying within the exterior
boundaries of the Territory of Dakota, was defined by Art. II.
of the treaty concluded April 29th, 1868, 15 Stat. 635, and
by § 1839 Rev. Stat. it is excepted' out of and constitutes
no part of that Territory. The object of this exception is stated
to be to exclude the jurisdiction of any State or Territorial government over Indians, within its exterior lines, without their
consent, where their rights have been reserved and remain unextinguished by treaty. But the district courts of the Territory
having, by law, the jurisdiction of district and circuit courts of
the United States, may, in that character, take cognizance of
offences against the laws of the United States, although committed within an Indian reservation, when the latter is situate
within the space which is constituted by the authority of the
Territorial government the judicial district of such court. If
the land reserved for the exclusive occupancy of Indians lies
outside the exterior boundaries of any organized Territorial
government, it would require an act of Congress to attach it to
a judicial district; of which there are many instances, the latest
being the act of January 6th, 1883, by which a part of the
Indian Territory was attached to the District of Kansas and a
part to the Northern District of Texas. 22 Stat. 400. In the
present case the Sioux reservation is within the geographical
limits of the Territory of Dakota, and being excepted out of it
only in respect to the Territorial government, the district court
of that Territory, within the geographical boundario of whose
district it lies, may exercise jurisdiction under the laws of the
United States over offences made punishable by them committed within its limits. United Slae v. -Dqwson, 15 -How. 467;

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Jackalow, 1 Black, 48-1; United State v. Rogers, 4 How. 567; 'United States ,.Alberty, Hempst. 444, opinion
by Mr. Justice Daniel; United States v. Starr, Hempst. 469 ;
United States v. Ta-wan-ga-ca or Town i1aker, an Osage Indian, Rempst. 304.
The district, court has two distinct jurisdictions. As a Territoiial court it administers the local law of the Territorial government; as invested by act of Congress with jurisdiction to
administer the laws of the United States, it has all the authority
of circuit and district courts; so that, in the former character,
it may try a prisoner for murder committed in the Territory
proper, under the local law, which requires the jury to determine whether the punishment shall be death or imprisonment
for lifo) Laws of Dakota, 1833, ch. 9; and, in the other character, try another for a murder committed within the Indian
reservation, under a law of the United States, which imposes,
in case of conviction, the penalty of death.
Sec. 2145 of the Revised Statutes extends the general laws
of the United States as to the punishment of crimes committed
in any place within their sole and exclusive jurisdiction, except
the District of Colunbia, to the Indian country, and it becomes
necessary, therefore, to inquire whether the locality of the
homicide, for which the prisoner was convicted of murder, is
within that description.
The first section of the Indian Intercourse Act of June 30th,
1834, 4 Stat. 729, defines the Indian country as follows:
C"That all that part of the United States west of the Mississippi,
and not within the States of Missouri and Louisiana, or the Territory of Arkansas, and, also, that part of the United States east of
the Mississippi River, and not within any State towhich the Indian
title has not been extinguished, for the purposes of this act, be
taken. and be deemed to be the Indian country."

Since the passage of that act great changes have taken place
by the acquisition of new territory, by the creation of new
States, and by the organization of Territorial governments; and
the Revised Statutes, while retaining the substance of many
important provisions of the act of 1834, with amendments and

EX PARTE CROW DOG.
Opinion of the Court

additions since made regulating intercourse with the Indian
tribes, have, nevertheless, omitted all definition of what now
must be taken to be "the Indian country"
Nevertheless,
although the section of the act of 1834 containing the definition
of that date has been repealed, it is not to be regarded as if it
had never been adopted, but may be referred to in connection
with the provisions of its original context which remain in
force, and may be considered in connection with the changes
which have taken place in our situation, with a.view of determining from time to time what must be regarded as Indian
country where it is spoken of in the statutes. It is an admitted
rule in the interpretation of statutes that clauses which have
been repealed may still be considered in construing the provisions that remain in force. Bramwell, L. J., in Atktrney-General v. 1anqlough, L. I. 3 Ex. D. 223-227; 1lardcastle on
Statutory Law, 217; Bank for Savings v. Collector, 3 Wall.
495-513 ; CommonwealtAz v. Bailey, 13 Allen, 541. This rule
was applied in reference to the very question now under consideration in Bates v. Cark, 95 U. S. 204, decided at the October term, 1877. It.was said in that case by Mr. Justice Miller,
delivering the opinion of the court, that "it follows from this
that all the country described by the act of 1834 as Indian
country remains Indian country so long as the Indians retain
their original title to the soil, and ceases to be Indian country
whenever they lose that title, in the absence of any different
provision by treaty or by act of Congress." In our opinion
that definition now applies to all the country to which the
Indian title has not been extinguished within the limits of the
United States, even when not within a reservation expressly
set apart for the exclusive occupancy o-Indians, although much
of it has been acquired since the passage of the act of 1834,
and notwithstanding the formal definition in that act has been
dropped from the statutes, excluding, however, any territory
embraced within the exterior geographical limits of a State,
not excepted from its jurisdiction by treaty or by statute, at
the time of its admission into the Union, but saving, even in
respect to territory not thus excepted and actually in the exclusive occupancy of Indians, the authority of Congress over it,
VOL.-CIX-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

under the constitutional power to regulate commerce with the
Indian tribes, and under any treaty made in pursuance of it.
United States v. .cBratney, 104 T. S. 621.
This definition, though not now expressed in the Revised
Statutes, is implied in all those provisions, most of which were
originally connected with it when first enacted, and which still
refer to it. It would be otherwise impossible to explain these
references, or give effect to many of the most important provisions of existing legislation for the government of Indian
country.
It follows that the locus in uo of the alleged offence is within
Indian country, over which, territorially, the District Court of
the First Judicial District of Dakota, sitting with the authority
of a Circuit Court of the United States, had jurisdiction.
But if § 2145 Rev. Stat. extends the act of Congress, § 533f,
punishing murder, to the locality of the prisoner's offence,
§ 2146 expressly excepts Irom its operation "crimes committed by one Indian against the person or property of another
Indian;" an exception which includes the case of the prisoner,
and which, if it is effective and in force, makes his conviction
.illegal and void. This brings us at once to the main question
of jurisdiction, deemed by Congress to be of such importance
to the prisoner and the public, as to justify a special appropriation for the payment of the expenses incurred on his behalf
in presenting it for decision in this proceeding to this court. 22
Stat. 624, ch. 143, March 3d, 1883.
The argument in support of the jurisdiction and conviction
is, that the exception contained in § 2146 Rev. Stat. is repealed by the operation and legal effect of the treaty with the
different tribes of the Sioux Indians of April 29th, 1868, 15
Stat. 635; and an act of Congress, approved February 28th,
1817, to ratify an agreement with certain bands of the Sioux
Indians, &c., 19 Stat. 254.
The following provisions of the treaty of 1868 are relied on:
"ARTICLE I. Fro'm this day forward all war between the parties to this agreement shall forever cease. The government of the
United States desires peace, and its honor is hereby pledged to

EX PARTE CROW DOG.
Opinion of the Court.

keep it. The Indians desire peace, and they now pledge' their
honor to maintain it.
"If bad men among the whites, ot among other people subject
to the authority of the United States, shall commit any wrong
upon the person or property of the Indians, the United States
will, upon proof made to the agent and forwarded to the commissioner of Indian affairs at Washington City, proceed at once to
cause the offender to be arrested and punished according to the
laws of the United States, and also reimburse the injured person
for the loss sustained.
"If bad men among the Indians shall commit a wrong or depredation upon the person or property. of any one, white, black,
or Indian, subject to- the authority of the United States and at
peace therewith, the Indians herein named solemnly agree that
they will, upon proof made to their agent and notice by him, deliver up the wrong-doer to the United States, to be tried and
punished according to its laws ; and in case they wilfully refuse
so to do, the person injured shall be reimbursed for his lossfrom
the annuities or other moneys due or to become due to them
under this or other treaties made with the United States. And
the President, on advising with the commissioner of Indian
affairs, shall prescribe such rules and regulations for ascertaining
damages under the provisions of this article as in his judgment
may be proper. But no one sustaining loss while violating the
provisions of this treaty or the laws of the United States shall be
reimbursed therefor."
The second article defines the reservation which, it is stipulated, is
"set apart for the absolute and undisturbed use and occupation of the Indians herein named, and for such other friendly
tribes or individual Indians as from time to time they may be
willing, with the consent of the United States, to admit amongst
them ; and the United States now solemnly agrees that no persons except those herein designated and authorized so to do, and
except such officers, agents, and employ~s of the government as
may be authorized to enter upon Indian reservations in discharge
of duties enjoined by law, shall ever be permitted to pass over,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
settle upon, or reside in the territory described in this article."
"AfICLE V. The United States agrees that the agent for said
Indians shall in future make his home at the agency building;
that he shall reside among them and keep an office open at all
times for the purpose of prompt and diligent inquiry into such
matters of complaint by and against the Indians as may be presented for investigation under their treaty stipulations, as also
for the faithful discharge of other duties enjoined upon him by
law. In all cases of depredation on person or property he shall
cause evidence to be taken in writing and forwarded, together
with his findings, to the commissioner of Indian affairs, whose decision, subject to the revision of the secretary of the interior,
shall be binding qu the parties to this treaty."'

Other provisions of this treaty are intended to encourage
the settlement of individuals and families upon separate agricultural reservations, and the education of children in schools
to be established. The condition of the tribe in point of civilization is illustrated by stipulations on the part of the Indians,
that they will not interfere with the construction of railroads
on the plains or over their reservation, nor attack persons at
home or travelling, nor disturb wagon: trains, mules, or cattle
belonging to the people of the United States, nor capture nor
carry off white women or children from the settlements, nor
kill nor scalp white men, nor attempt to do them harm.
By the Indian Appropriation Act of August 15th, 1876,
Congress appropriated one million dollars for the subsistence
of the Sioux Indians, in accordance with the treaty of 1868,
and "for purposes of their civilization," 19 Stat. 192; but
coupled it with certain conditions relative to a cession of a
portion of the reservation, and with, the proviso. "that no
further appropriation for said Sioux Indians for subsistence
shall hereafter be made until some stipulation, agreement or
arrangement shall have been entered into by said Indians with
the President of the United States, which is calculated and designed to enable said Indians to become self-supporting."
In pursuance of -that provision the agreement was made,
which was ratified in part by the act of Congress of February

EX PARTE CROW DOG.
Opinion of the Court.

28th, 1877. The enactment of this agreement by statute, instead of its ratiication as a treaty, was in pursuance of the
policy which had been declared fbr the first time in a proviso
to the Indian Appropriation Act of _-LMarch 3d, 1871, 16 Stat.
566, ch. 120, and permanently adopted in section 2079 of the
Revised Statutes, that thereafter "no Indian nation or tribe
within the territory of the United States, shall be acknowledged or recognized as an independent nation, tribe, or power
with whom the United States may contract by treaty," but
without invalidating or impairing the obligation of subsisting
treaties.
The instrument in which the agreement was embodied was
signed by the commissioners, on the part of the United States,
and by the representative chiefs and head men of the various
Sioux tribes, but with certain exceptions on the part of some of
the latter, and consisted of eleven articles.
The first defines the boundaries of the reservation; the
second provides for wagon roads through it to the country
lying west of it, and for the free navigation of the Mississippi
River; the third for the places where annuities shall be received.
AnTiCLE

4 was as follows:

"The government of the United States and the said Indians
being mutually desirous that the latter should be located in a
country where they may eventually become self-supporting and
acquire the arts of civilized life, it is therefore agreed that the
said Indians shall select a delegation of five or more chiefs and
principal men from"each band, who shall, without delay, visit the
Indian Territory, under the guidance and protection of suitable
persons, to be appointed for that purpose by the department of
the interior, with a view to selecting therein a permanent home
for the said Indians. If such delegation shall make a selection
which shall be satisfactory to themselves, the people whom they
represent, and to the United States, then the said Indians agree
that they will remove to the country so selected within one year
from this date. And the said Indians do further-agree in all
things to submit themselves to such beneficent plans as the government may provide for them in the selection of a country suitable

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

for a permanent home where they may live like white.men."
Stat. 255.

19

The fifth article recites that, in consideration of the foregoing cession of territory and rights, the United States agrees
"1to provide all necessary aid to assist the said Indians in the
work of civilization; to furnish to them schools, and instruction
in mechanical and agricultural arts, as provided for by the
treaty of 1868;" to provide subsistence, &c.
ARTICLE 8 is as follows:
"The provisions of the said treaty of 1868, except as herein
modified, shall continue in full force, and, with the provisions of
this agreement, shall apply to any country which may hereafter
be occupied by the said Indians as a home; and Congress shall,
by appropriate legislation, secure to them an orderly government;
they shall be subject to the laws of the United States, and each
individual shall be protected in his rights of property, person, and
life.
"ARTIcLE 9. The Indians, parties to this agreement, do hereby
solemnly pledge themselves, individually and collectively, to observe each and all of the stipulations herein 'contained ; to select
allotments of land as soon as possible after their removal'to their
permanent home, and to use their best efforts to learn to cultivate
the same. And they do solemnly pledge themselves that they
will, at all times, maintain peace with the citizens and government of the United States; that they will observe the laws thereof, and loyally endeavor to fulfil all the obligations assumed by
'them under the treaty of 1868 and the present agreement, and to
this end will, whenever requested by the President of the United
States, select so many suitable men from each band to co-operate
with him in maintaining order and peace on the reservation as
the President may deem necessary, who shall receive such compensation for their services as Congress may provide."
]By the 11th and last article it was provided that the ternreservation, as therein used, should be held to apply to any
country which should be selected under the authority of the
United States as their future home.
The 4th article and part of the 6th article of the 6greement,

EX PARTE CROW DOG.
Opinion of the Court.

which referred to the removal of the Indians to the Indian
Territory, were omitted from its ratification, not having been
agreed to by the Indians.
If this legislation has the effect contended for, to support
the conviction in the present case, it also makes punishable,
when committed within the Indian country by one Indian
against the person or property or another Indian, the following offences, defined by the general laws of the United States
as to crimes committed in places within their exclusive jurisdiction, viz.: manslaughter, § 5341; attempt to commit murder
or manslaughter, § 5342; rape, § 5345; mayhem, § 5348;
bigamy, § 5352; larceny, § 5356; and receiving stolen goods,

§5357.

That this legislation could constitutionally be extended to
embrace Indians in the Indian country, by the mere force of a
treaty, whenever it operates of itself, without the aid of any
legislative provision, was decided by this court in the case of
The United State8 v. 43 Gallon8 of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188.
See HTolden v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211; The C'hierokee Tobacco, 11
Wall. 616. It becomes necessary, therefore, to examine the
particular provisions that are supposed to work this result.
The first of these is contained in the first article of the
treaty of 1868, that "if bad men among the Indians shall commit a wrong or depredation upon .the person or property of
any une, white, black, or Indian, subject to the authority of
the United States and at peace therewith, the Indians herein
named solemnly agree that they will, upon proof made to
their agent and- notice by him, deliver up the wrong-doer to
the United States, to be tried and punished according to its
laws."
But it is quite clear from the context that this does not
cover the present case of an alleged wrong committed by one
Indian upon the person of another of the same tribe. The
provision must be construed with its counterpart, just preced
ing it, which provides for the punishment by the United States
of any bad men among the whites, or among other people sub.
ject to their authority, who shall commit any wrong upon the
person or property of the Indians. Here are two parties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

amnong whom, respectively, there may be individuals guilty of
a wrong against one of the other-one is the party of whites
and their allies, the other is the tribe of Indians with whom
the treaty is made. In each case the guilty party is to be
tried and punished by the United States, and in case the
offender is one of the Indians who are parties to the treaty,
the agreement is that he shall be delivered up. In case of
refusal, deduction is to be made from the annuities payable to
the tribe, for compensation to the injured person, a provision
which points quite distinctly to the conclusion that the injured
person cannot himself be one of the same tribe. Similar provisions for the extradition of criminals are to be found in most
of the treaties with the Indian tribes, as far back, at least, as
that concluded at Hopewell with the Cherokees, N~ovember
28th, 1785, 7 Stat. 18.
The second of these provisions, that are supposed to justify
the jurisdiction asserted in the present case, is. the eighth
article of the agreement, embodied in the act of 1877, in which
it is declared:
"And Congress shall, by appropriate legislation, secure to them
an orderly government; they shall be subject to the laws of the
United States, and each individual shall be protected in his rights
of propeity, person, and life."
It is equally clear, in our opinion, that the words can have
no such effect as that claimed for them. The pledge to secure
to these people, with whom the United States was contracting
as a distinct political body, an orderly government, by appropriate legislation thereafter to be framed and enacted, necessarily implies, having regard to all the circumstances attending
the transaction, that among the arts of civilized life, which it
was the very purpose of all these arrangements to introduce
and naturalize among them, was the highest and best of all,
that of -self-government, the regulation by themselves of their
own domestic affairs, the maintenance of order and peace
among their own members by the administration of their own
laws and customs. They were nevertheless to be subject to

EX PARTE CROW DOG.

569

Opinion of the Court.

the laws of the United States, not in the sense of citizens, but,
as they had always been, as wards subject to a guardian; not
as i dividuals, constituted members of the political community
of the United States, with a voice in the selection of representatives and the framing of the laws, but as a dependent community who were in a state of pupilage, advancing from the
condition of a savage tribe to that of a people who, through
the discipline of labor and by education, it was hoped might
become a self-supporting and self-governed society. The laws
to which they were declared to be subject were the laws then
existing, and which applied to them as Indians, and, of course,
included the very statute under consideration, which excepted
from the operation of the general laws of the United States,
otherwise applicable, the very case of the prisoner. Declaring
them subject to the laws made them so, if it effected any
change in their situation, only in respect to law's in force and
existing, and did not effect any change in the laws themselves. The phrase cannot, we think, have any more extensive
meaning than an acknowledgment of their allegiance as Indians to the laws of the United States, made or to be made
in the exercise of legislative authority over them as such.
The corresponding obligation of protection on the part of the
government is immediately connected with it, in the declaration that each individual shall be protected in his rights'of
property, person, and life; and that obligation was to be fulfilled by the enforcement of the laws then existing appropriate to these objects, and by that future appropriate
legislation which was promised to secure to them an orderly
government. The expressions contained in these clauses must
be taken in connection with the entire scheme of the agreement as framed, including those parts not finally adopted, as
throwing light on the meaning of the remainder; and looking
at the purpose so clearly disclosed in that, of the removal of
the whole body of the Sioux nation to the Indian Territory
proper, which was ,nbt consented to, it is manifest that the
provisions had reference to their establishment as a people
upon a defined reservation as a permanent home, who were
to be urged, as far as it could successfully be done, into the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

practice of agriculture, and whose children were to be taught
the arts and industry of civilized life, and that it was no part
of~the design to treat the individuals as separately responsible
and amenable, in all their personal and domestic relations
with each other, to the general laws of the United States, outside of those which were enacted expressly with reference to
them as members of an Indian tribe.
It must be remembered that the question before us is whether
the express letter of § 2146 of the Revised Statutes, which
excludes from the jurisdiction of the United States the case of
a crime committed in the Indian country by one Indian against
the person or property of another Indian, has been repealed.
If not, it is in force and applies to the present case. The treaty
of 1868 and the agreement and act of Congress of 1877,'it is
admitted, do not repeal it by any express words. What we
have said is sufficient at least to show that they do not work a
repeal by necessary implication. A meaning can be given to
the legislation in question, which the words will bear, which is
not unreasonable, which is not inconsistent with its scope and
apparent purposes, whereby the whole may be made to stand.
Implied repeals are not favored. The implication must be
necessary. There must be a positive repugnancy between the
provisions of the new laws and those of the old. Wood v. The
United States, 16 Pet. 342; Davies v. Fairbaim, 3 How.
636 ; United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88; State v. Stoll, 17
Wall. 425.
The language of the exception is special and express; the
words relied on as a repeal are general and inconclusive. The
rule is, generali specialiTus von derogant. "The general principle to be applied," said Bovill, C. T., in To2e v. Adams, L.
R. 6 C. P. 135, "to the construction of acts of Parliament is
that a general act is not to be construed to repeal a previous
particular act, unless there is some express reference to the previous legislation on the subject, or unless there is a necessary
inconsistency in the two acts standing together." "And the
reason is," said Wood, V. C., in Fitzgeraldv. Ohwaenys, 30
L. 5. N. S. Eq. T82; 2 Johns. and Hem. 31-54, "that the
legislature having had its attention directed to a special sub-

EX PARTE CROW DOG.
Opinion of the Court.

ject, and having observed all the circumstances of the case and
provided for them, does not intend by a general enactment
afterwards to derogate from its own act when it makes no special mention of its intention so to do."
The nature and circumstances of this case strongly reinforce
this rule.of interpretation in its present application. It is a case
involving the judgment of a court of special and limited jurisdiction, not to be assumed without clear warrant of law. It is
a case of life and death. It is a case where, against an express
exception in the law itself, that law, by argument and inference only, is sought t& be extended over aliens and strangers;
over the members of a community separated by race, by tradi.
tion, by the instincts of a free though savage life, from the
authority and power which seeks to impose upon them the restraints of an external and unknown code, and to subject them
to the responsibilities of civil conduct, according to rules and
penalties of which they could have no previous warning; which
judges them by a standard made by others and not for them,
which takes no account of the conditions which should except
them from its exactions, and makes no allowance for their inability to understand it. It tries them, not by their peers, nor
by the customs of their people, nor the law of their land, but
by superiors of a different race, according t the law of a social
state of which they have an imperfect conception, and which is
opposed to the traditions of their history, to the habits of their
lives, to the strongest prejudices of their savage nature; one
which measures the red man's revenge by the maxims of the
white man's morality. It is a case, too, of first impression, so
far as we aie advised, for, if the question has been mooted
heretofore in any courts of the United States, the jurisdiction
has never before been practically asserted as in the present instance. The provisions now contained in §§ -2145 and 2146
of the Revised Statutes were first enacted in § 25 of the
Indian Intercourse Act of 1834, 4 Stat. 33. Prior to that,
by the act of 1796,1 Stat. 479, and the act of 1802,2 Stat. 139,
offences committed, by Indians against white persons and by
white persons against Indians were specifically enumerated
and defined, and.those by Indians against each other were left

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

to be dealt with by each tribe for itself, according to its local
customs. The policy of the government in that respect has
been uniform. As was said by Mr. Justice Miller, delivering
the opinion of the court in United States v. To8eph, 941 U. S.
614, 617:
ccThe tribes for whom the act of 1834 -vas made were those
semi-independent tribes whom our government has always recognized as exemjt from our laws, whether within or without the
limits of an organized State or Territory, and, in regard to their
domestic government, left to their own rules and traditions, in
whom we have recognized the capacity to make treaties, and
with whom the governments, State and national, deal, with a few
exceptions only, in their national or tribal character, and not as
individuals."
To give to the clauses in the treaty of 1868 and the agreement of 1877 effect, so as to uphold the jurisdiction exercised
in this case, would be to reverse in this instance the general
policy of the government towards the Indians, a declared in
many statutes aid treaties, and recognized in many decisions
of this court, from the beginning to the present time. To justify such a departure, in such a case, requires a clear expression
of the intention of Congress, and that we have not been able
to find.
It results that the First District Court of Dakota was without
jurisdiction to find or try the indictment against the prisoner,
that the c6nviction and sentence are void, and that his imprisonment is illegal.
The writs of habeas eorvus and certiorariprayed for wilZ
accordihgly be issued.

