ESTEY v. BURDETT.
Opinion of the Court.

ESTEY & Others v. BURDETT.
APPEAL FROM THE CtROUIT COURT OF THE uNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF VERMONT.
Argued November 21st, 22d, 23d, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.
Patent.
Claim 1 of letters patent No. 87,241, granted February 23d,, 1869, to Riley Burdett, as inventor, for 17 years from August 24th, 1868, for an "improve.
ment in reed organs," namely, "The arrangement, in a reed musical
instrument, of the reed-board A, having the diapason set a and its octave
set b and the additional set L, extending from about at tenor F upward
through the scale, substantially as and to the effect set forth," defined and
construed.
A reed-board with two sets of reeds and a third partial set was made and put
into an organ by one Dayton, prior to the invention of Burdett, and,
such organ being put in evidence, it was held that the alleged infringing
organs contained nothing which, so far as said claiin I was concerned, was
not found in such prior organ.
As to claim 2, namely, "The reed-board A, and foundation-board G, constructed with the contracted valve openings D F F, and the reeds arranged
in relation thereto, all in the manner described," it was held, that, in view
of the state of the art, there was no invention in making the length and
size of the valve opening greater or less in a reed-board of a given width, or
where the reed-board was made wider or narrower, or had more or less sets
of reeds in it, either full or partial ; and that the vibrating ends of the
lowest and longest reeds in such prior organ were as near together as they
were in the reed-boards of the alleged infringing organs.
On these views, a decree was entered in favor of the defendants.

Bill in equity for infringement of a patent for reed celeste
organs.
Xr. Edward .. -Dickerson and -3r. WIlliam Maxwell
.Eartsfor appellants.
-T Phe/ps for appellee.
Efr:.
.r. George Hardingand .
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought for the infringement of letters
patent No. 87,241,,granted February 23d, ,1869, to Riley Burdett, the plaintiff, for 17 years from August 24th, 1868, for an
"improvement in reed organs." The specification of the patent
is in these words :
MR. JusTiCE BLATCHFORD

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"Figure 1 is a perspective view of one of my reed celeste
organs. Figure 2 is a diagram plan, showing the relative arrafngement of the reeds. Figure 3 is a vertical transverse section of
my reed-boards, &c. This invention consists, first, in the arrangement of the reed-board ; second, in a method of tuning, by
which a peculiar quality of tone is produced, and by which the

power of the instrument is 'greatly increased without an increased
resistance in the action, and without an increase of power being
necessary to operate the bellows. The advantages gained by my
peculiar arrangement are, a greatly increaied power and variety
of tone. This is effected by the use of an additional set of
reeds, commencing at tenor F, or thereabouts, and running upward through the scale of the instrument, and tuning the same
in the peculiar manner hereinafter described. 1o other reed

ESTEY v. BURDETT.
Opinion of the Court.

musical instrument containing the same number of reeds, so far
as I know, has ever possessed so great a variety or pleasing quality of tone, while simplicity of construction, compactness of form,
and ease of operation -are other excellences of this arrangement
not found in others. I will now describe particularly the construction of that part of my instrument which forms the subject
of this patent. The case, bellows, pedals, &c., may be, in general
construction and arrangement, like those in common use, and,
therefore, no special description is required. The foundation of
the reed-board is also constructed in the usual manner, but the
reed-board proper, in itself, differs from the ordinary reed-board
in the following particulars, viz. : the main board A contains two
sets of reeds running through the entire scale, the back set of
which is marked a, and is tuned as a unison or diapason, while the
front or octave set, marked b, is tuned an octave above the diapason.
In the arrangement of these reeds, it will be seen that the lowest
and longest reeds in the diapason and the octave sets are placed
with their vibrating ends as near together as they can be, with
room only for the tracker-pin which communicates the motion of
the key to the valve beneath the reeds. But, as the reeds continually shorten as they advance upward in the scale, there is
necessarily a vacant space left between the diapason set a and
the octave set b, which constantly enlarges itself, and has heretofore been regarded as useless. Within this space, commencing
on tenor F and running upward through the scale, I have introduced a third set of reeds, L, which forms the distinguishing
feature of this instrument. These are placed in the reed-board
over the octave set b, and run obliquely to the foundation board
G, as'shown in Fig. 3, the vibrating ends resting on the same
base as the other sets of reeds, a and b. These reeds are of
the same size as the corresponding ones in the diapason a, and are
tuned either a trifle above or below the diapason, but only sufficiently so to produce a slightly waving and undulating quality or
effect, without producing any 'discord. A few trials will enable
any tuner of reed instruments to tune these reeds so as to realize
the best effect. This method of tuning will, when this set of
reeds, which I have named the Harmonic Celeste, is drawn and
used in connection with the diapason, produce a most wonderfully pleasing and captivating effect, while the power and beauty
of both sets of reeds are greatly augmented and enriched, in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
manner which cannot be realized without being heard. Fig. 2
shows a top view of the reed-board proper, wherein the location of the reeds is shown with reference to the divergence
of the reeds of the diapason set a and the octave set-b, and also
the space afforded for the introduction of the third set, L. Fig.
3 exhibits a transverse section of-my reed and foundation board,
showing the arrangement of my reeds and the valve connections.
In this figure, A is the reed-board, G is the foundation board, D
is the valve opening, E is the valve, and F F are the throats oyer
which the reeds are located and placed. The valve E is retained
in its proper place by tl e pins e e and spring H, and is operated by
the tracker-pin I, which rests upon its upper surface, and passes
upwards through the reed-board to the under surface of the key
*N. The swell-boards J and K and stop-dampers B and M are
raised whenever desired, by the knee-stop C, Fig. 1, or by a hand
draw-stop, or by some other convehient device. Another important advantage arising from the introduction of the Harmonic
Celeste is, that a greater power alid variety are attained than can
be by the use of any of the octave coupling arrangements now
in use. .These, while they augment the power, by drawing down
octarves to the keys actually played, are objectionable, inasmuch
as they offer more than double the resistance to the key, and are
thus often exceedingly undesirable. In my instrument, no such
objection ca i ever arise, as the pressure upon the keys is always
the same, whether one or all the sets of reeds are used. This is
of prime importance to the performer, as the required exertion
becomes involuntary, and not a matter of calculation, and thus
the mind is not distracted from the proper feeling and expression
of the music performed." The claims of the patent- are as follows: "1. The arrangement, in a reed musical instrunient, of the
reed-board A, having the diapason set a and its octave set b and
the additional set L, extending from about at tenor F upward
through the scale, substantially as and to the effect set forth. 2.
The reed-board A and foundatiofi, board G, constructed with the
contracted valve opehings D F F, and the reeds arranged in relation thereto, all in the manner described. 3. The diapason.a and
its octave, or principal, b, arranged over the same valve ope',ing,
as described, so that the octave unison may be produced, when
desired, without the use of cpupler, and without any additional
pressure upon the keys. 4. In connection with the' reed-board A,

ESTEY v. BURDETT.
Opinion of the Court.

having the sets a, b and L, as described, the independent dampers
B and M, as set forth."
The circuit court made an interlocutory decree declaring the
patent to be valid so far as claims 1 and 2 are concerned; that
those two claims had been infringed; that the.plaintiff was
not the original and first inventor of what is set forth in claim
4, and did not before the commencement of this suit file a disclaimer of what is claimed in claim 4, and had not unreasonably
neglected to file such disclaimer, and had presented evidence of
his having filed such disclaimer; that no evidence had been
offered to show any infringement of claim 3 ; and that the
plaintiff was entitled to recover profits and damages because
of such infringement, A reference to a master to'ascertain the
same was ordered and a perpetual injunction was awarded as
to claims 1 and 2. On the report of the master a final decree
was made for the plaintiff, for $161,011.79, without costs to
either party. The decisions of the circuit court in the case are
reported in 15 Blatchford 0. 0. R. 349, 16 id. 105, and 19 id. 1.
The defendants have appealed.
An examination of the text of the specification shows that
the inventor purposed to cover by his patent two things: (1) a
new arrangement of the reed-board; (2) a new method of
tuning. In the application for the patent, claim I read as it
does now, while claims 2, 3 and 4.had specific reference to the
method of tuning described. The patent office rejected all the
claims. The plaintiff then amended two of the claims relative
to tuning, still retaining the tuning feature in them, and added
the claims which are now claims 2, 3 and 4. The office then
rejected all seven of the claims, On appeal to the examinersin-chief, the decision rejecting the three tuning claims was
affirmed, ind that rejecting the other four claims was reversed,
and the patent was issued accordingly. There is nothing in
claims 1 and 2, as granted, which has any reference to any new
method of tufting, unless it is to be intended, in accordance
with the description, that the partial set is to be capable of
being tuned a trifle above or below the diapason set. Except,
perhaps, to that extent, all there is in the descriptive part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the specification in relation to a new method of tuning may be
dismissed from consideration, as it was introduced to lay a
foundation for the original claims 2, 3 and 4, in reference to
such new method of tuning. Claims 1 and 2, as they stand,
relate only to the arrangement of the reed-board and the sets
of reeds, in conjunction with the foundation board and the valve
openings and the valves.
The specification shows that the inventor takes a reed-board
having tWo sets of reeds running through the entire scale, a
diapason set and an octave or principal set, and makes no
change in the foundation board, or in the case, bellows, pedal,
etc. The reed-board with the two sets was old. In its structure, as shown in Figure 2 of the drawings, and as described in
the specification, the lowest and longest reeds in the two sets
are placed so near together as to leave between them room
only for the tracker-pin which communicates motion from the
key to the valve; but, as the reeds shorten continually as the
scale proceeds upward, there is a vacant space between the
ends of the reeds in the two sets, which space continually grows
wider. Within that space the inventor introduces a third set
of reeds, commencing at or about tenor F and running upward
through the scale. He places this third set over the octave
set, and the reeds' run downwardly in a direction oblique to
the foundation board, and their vibrating ends, which are their
lower ends, rest on the same base as that of the other two sets
of reeds. They are of the same size as the corresponding reeds
in the. diapason set. The point of advantage in bringing down
the vibrating ends of the reeds in the third set, so that they
shall rest on the same base with the vibrating ends of the reeds
in the other two sets, is shown by the evidence to be the same
point of advantage which is set forth in the specification of the
prior patent granted to the plaintiff on the 9th of January,
1866. In that the invention is stated to be to so make the
reed-board that the three or four sets of reeds in it shall be
acted upon instantly and simultaneously by the rush of air
upon the opening of the valve; and it is set forth that that
result is effected by placing two sets of reeds on the same horizontal plane, and placing the*other sets on an inclined plane,

ESTEY v. BURDETT.
Opinion of the Court.

each with its base on the same level as the first and second
sets, thus making the head of each reed equidistant from the
valve and making each produce instantaneous concerted sound.
There was introduced in evidence a reed organ, known as
Exhibit No. 21, containing a reed-board with two sets of reeds
and a third-partial set, alleged to have been made by one Dayton in 1866, prior to the plaintiff's invention. There was much
testimony on the question as to whether the reed-board and
reeds in this organ were made prior to the plaintiff's invention,
in the shape in which they appeared when put in evidence.
The circuit court decidMd that question in the affirmative, but
nevertheless it held that the arrangement of reed-board and
reeds found in No. 21 did not embrace the entire arrangement
ipecified and claimed in claim 1 of the patent, because, although
it had a reed-board no wider than was necessary for two full
sets of reeds, and had an additional partial set of reeds put in
on an incline, and although the reeds in that set may have been
tuned flat in relation to the diipason set, yet such reeds did
not rest on the same base as that of the other two sets of reeds.
We concur with the circuit court iu its, conclusion as to the
genuineness and the date of No. 21, but are of opinion that
there is nothing found in the alleged infringing organs which,
so far as claim 1 of the plaintiff's patent is concerned, is not
fouxd in No. 21. The vibrating reeds in the partial set in the
alleged infringing organs do not rest on the same base as that
of the other two sets of reeds, and occupy a position in that respect no different, in reference to any requirement of the plaintiff's patent, from that occupied by the vibrating ends of'the
partial set in No: 21. In all other respects-in which the alleged infringing reed-board and reeds embrace what is covered
by claim 1 of the plaintiff's patent, what they contain is found
in No. 21.
The material point in claim 2 is the -contraction of the valve
openings. The idea is that the valve openings and passages
for the two complete sets of reeds and the intermediate partial
set are contracted or condensed within the same space which
was usually occupied by the valve openings afid passages for
only two complete sets of reeds in an instrument of the .usual

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

prior construction; ana that, therefore, no more force is required to be applied to the keys to open the valves than where
only two full sets of reeds are used. The circuit court was of
opinion that the valve openings in No. 21 were not the contracted valve openings. of the plaintiff's patent, because they
were as large as the valve openings in a reed-board having
three full sets of reeds; and that the lowest and longest reeds
in No. 21 did not, as in the plaintiffs arrangement, have their
vibrating ends as near together as they could be, with koom
between them only for the tracker-pin. Our conclusion is that
the absolute length and size of the valve opening was a matter
of judgment, in view of the state of the art shown, and that
there was no invention in making its length and size greater or
less in a reed-board of a given width, or where the reed-board
was made wider or narrower, or had more or less sets of reeds
in it, either full or partial. The dimensions of the valve opening and of the valve are regulated by the judgment of the
manufacturer as to the quantity of air necessary, and the resistance to be overcome in working the valve, and the inconvenience of the leakage of air. We are also satisfied that the
vibrating ends of the lowest and longest reeds in No. 21 were
as near together as they are in the reed-boards of the alleged
infringing organs.
It results from these considerations that
The decree of the circuit court mu t be -eversed, and the case
be remanded to that court, with directionto disniss the bil.

