EX PARTE BOYER.

629

Syllabus.

the framers of the Constitution and of the legislature is apparent, for art. 3, sec. 11, of the Constitution, provides that all
judicial officers "shall reside" in their respective townships,
counties, and districts during their respective terms of office;"
art. 2, sec. 4, that "no person shall be a member of the
legislature who is not at the time of his election a qualified
voter of, and resident in, the county or district for which he is
elected;" and see. 218 [1643] of the general statutes (Dassler's
Comp. Laws, 311), that "ceasing to be an inhabitant of the
county for which he was elected or appointed" vacates the
office of a county officer.
Undoubtedly the removal of a township treasurer from a
township may, under some circumsamces, vacate his office and
authorize the county commissioners to fill the place (see. 12
[5978], Dassler's Comp. Laws, 978), but we think it does not
necessarily vacate the office under all circumstances. In the
present case the question is whether moving "1across the line"
into an adjoining township of itself has that effect. In our
opinion it does not, and consequently we answer the second
question certified in the affirmative. The motion to set aside
the service' wa8, therefcre, properly overruled, and the .judgment is
Af
.

EX PARTE BOYER & Another.
ORIGINAL.

Submitted December 17th, 1883.-Deeided January7th, 1884.

Admiratg-,Twisdiction.
The District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, as

a court of admiralty, has jurisdiction of a suit in rem against a seaim
canal-boat, to recover damages caused by a collision between her and another canal-boat, while the two boats were navigating the Illinois and Lake
Michigan canal, at a point about four miles from its Chicago end, and
within the body of Cook county, Illinois, although the libellant's boat was
bound from one place in Illinois to another place in Illinois.

Petition for a writ of prohibition to restrain the judge of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

District Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Illinois from exercising jurisdiction and entering a final decree in a suit in admiraity in that court, growing out of a collision on the Illinois ca.4L
JWr. Robert Rae for petitioners.
.Mr. C. E. ZErem opposing.
Mr. JusTIcE BLATOFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The owners of the canal-boat Brilliant and her cargo filed a
libel in admiralty, in the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois, againt the steam canal-boat B
and C, in a case of collision. The libelalieges that the Brilliant
is a vessel of more than 20 tons burden, and was employed, at
the time of the collision, in the business of commerce and navigation between ports and places in different States and Territories in the United States, upon the lakes and navigable waters
connecting said lakes; that the B and C is a vessel of more
than 20 tons burden, and was, at the time of the collision, enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, and employed in the
business of commerce and navigation between ports and places
in different States and Territories of the United States, upon
the lakes and navigable waters of the United States; that, in
August, 1882, the Brilliant, while bound from Morris, Illinois,
to Chicago, Illinois, towed, with other canal-boats, by a steam
canal-boat, and carrying the proper lights, and moving up the
Illinois and Lake Michigan canal, about four miles south of the
Chicago end of the canal, was, through the negligence of the
B and C, struck and sunk, with her cargo, by the B and C,
whichiwas moving in the opposite direction, to the damage of
the libellants $1,500. The owners and claimants of the B and
C answered the libel, giving their version of the collision and
alleging that it was wholly due to the faulty navigation of the
Brilliant, and that it occurred on the Illinois and Michigan
canal, at a place within the body of Cook county, in the State
of Illinois. In November, 1883, the district court made an
interlocutory decree, finding that both parties vere in fault,
and decreeing that they should each pay one-half of the

EX PARTE BOYER.
Opinion of the Court.

damages occasioned by the collision, to be thereafter ascertained
and assessed by the court.
The owners of the B and 0 have now presented to this court
a petition, praying that a writ of prohibition may issue to the
judge of the said district court, prohibiting him from proceeding
further in said suit. The ground alleged for the writ is the
want of jurisdiction of the district court, as a court of admiralty,
over the waters where the collision occurred.
The Illinois and Michigan canal is an artificial navigable
water-way' connecting Lake Michigan and the Chicago river
with the Illinois river and the Mississippi river. By the act of
Congress of March 30th, 1822, ch. 14, 3 Stat. 659, the use of
certain public lands of the 'United States was vested in the State
of Illinois forever, for a canal to connect the Illinois river with
the southern bend of Lake Michigan. The ct declared
"1That the said canal, when completed, shall be and forever remain a public highway, for the use of the government of the
United States, free from any toll or other charge whatever for
any property of the United States, or persons in their service,
passing through the same."
This declaration was repeated in the act of March 2d, 1827,
ch. 51, 4 Stat. 234, granting more land to the State of Illinois
to aid i in opening the canal. We take judicial notice of the
historical fact that the canal, 96 miles long, was completed in
1848, and is 60 feet wide and 6 feet deep, and is capable of
being navigated by vessels which a canal of such size will accommodate, and which can thus pass from the Mississippi river
to Lake Michigan and carry on inter-State commerce, although
the canal is wholly within the territorial bounds of the State of
Illinois. By the act of 1822, if the land granted thereby shall
cease to be used for a canal suitable for navigation, the grant is
to be void.. It may properly be assumed that the district court
found to be true the allegations of the libel, before cited, as to
the character and employment of the two vessels, those allegations being put in issue by the answer.
Within the principles laid down by this court in the cases of
The .Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 551, and The .ontello, 20 Wall.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

430, which extended the salutary views of admiralty jurisdiction applied in The Genesee (hief, 12 How. 443; The Hine v.
Trevor, 4 Wall. 555, and The Eage, 8 Wall. 15, we have no
doubt of the jurisdiction of the district court in this case.
Navigable water situated as this canal is, used for the purposes
for which it is used, a highway for commerce between ports
and places in different' States, carried on by vessels such as
those in question here, is public water of the United States, and
within the legitimate scope of the admiralty jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution and statutes of the United States,
even though the canal is wholly artificial, and is wholly within
the body of a State, and subject to its ownership and control;
and it makes no difference as to the jurisdidtion of the district
court that one or the other of the vessels was at the time of the
collisi6n on a voyage from one place in the State of Illinois to
auother place in that State. Te Beoat, 7 Wall. 624. Many
of the embarrassments connected with the question of the
extent of the jurisdiction of the admiralty disappeared wheu.
this court held, in the case of The Lage, ubi supra, that all
of the provisions of ยง 9 of the Judiciary Act of September
24th, 1789;-ch. 20, 1 Stat. V7, which conferred admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction upon the district courts were inoperative,
except the simple clause giving to them "exclusive original
cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction." That decision is carried out by the enactment in
ยง 563 of the Revised Statutes, subdivision 8, that the district
courts shall have jurisdiction of "all civil causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction," thus leaving out the inoperative
provisions.
This case does not raise the question whether the admiralty
jurisdiction of the district court extends to waters wholly
withih the body of a State, and from which vessels cannot so
pass as to carry on commerce between places in such State and
places in another State or in a foreign country; and no opinion
is intended to be intimated as to jurisdiction in such a case.
ie prayer of thepetitionis denid.

