SCHWEIKER v. HANSEN
Syllabus

SCHIWEIKER, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES v. HANSEN
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES
COURT OF APPEALS FOP THE SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 80-1162.

Decided April 6, 1981

Under § 202 (g) (1) (D) of the Social Security Act, "mother's insurance
benefits" are available only to one who, among other qualifications,
"has filed application." An implementing regulation provides that only
written applications satisfy this requirement. A Social Security Administration (SSA) field representative erroneously told respondent that she
was not entitled to such benefits. And contrary to instructions in SSA's
Claims Manual, an internal handbook, he failed to recommend to
respondent that she file a wrilten application; nor did he advise her
of the advantages of doing so. After subsequently learning that she
was eligible for benefits, respondent filed a written application and
sought retroactive benefits that she would have received if she had
been properly advised by tle field representative. Her laim for such
retroactive benefits was denied in aministrative proceedings, but the
District Court found for her in her subsequent lawsuit. The Court of
Appeals affirmed.
Hcld: The SSA field representative's erroneous statement and neglect of
the Claims M\anual (lid not estop the Secretary of Health and Human
Services from d(enyiing ret roactive benefits to respondent for the period
in which she was eligible for benefits but had not filed a written application. TI' field representative's conduct was less than "affirmative misconduct" and docs not justify abnegation of "the duty of all courts to
observe the condiiions defined by Congress for charging the public
treasury." Federal Crop Insuronce Corp. v. Merrill, 332 U. S. 380,
385. Although the field rel)resenitaive failed to follow the Claims
M:inual. the .Manual has no legal force aind does not bind the SSA. Nor
is estoppel justified on the basis of any distinction between respondent's
'sub stanitive eligihility 'iod
her failure to satisfy a "procedural remni;r( authorized to overlook the valid
no
is
court
A
quirmicnt."
regulation rcquiriiig that :iqpplications he in writing than it is to overt for the receipt of benefits.
look any other valid r.quirewin
Certiorari granted; 619 F. 2d 942, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Per Curiam

450 U. S.

PER CURIAM.

On June 12, 1974, respondent met for about 15 minutes
with Don Connelly, a field representative of the Social Security Administration (SSA), and orally inquired of him
whether she was eligible for "mother's insurance benefits"
under § 202 (g) of the Social Security Act (Act), 64 Stat. 485,
as amended, 42 U. S. C. § 402 (g). Connelly erroneously told
her that she was not, and she left the SSA office without having filed a written application. By the Act's terms, such benefits are available only to one who, among other qualifications,
"has filed application." 42 U. S. C. § 402 (g)(1)(D). By a
regulation promulgated pursuant to the Act, only written
applications satisfy the "filed application" requirement. 20
CFR § 404.601 (1974).' The SSA's Claims Manual, an internal Administration handbook, instructs field representatives to advise applicants of the advantages of filing written
applications and to recommend to applicants who are uncertain about their eligibility that they file written applications.
Connelly, however, did not recommend to respondent that
she file a written application; nor did he advise her of the advantages of doing so. The question is whether Connelly's
erroneous statement and neglect of the Claims Manual estop
petitioner, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, from
denying retroactive benefits to respondent for a period in
which she was eligible for benefits but had not filed a written
application.
Respondent eventually filed a written application after
learning in May 1975 that in fact she was eligible. She then
began receiving benefits. Pursuant to § 202 (j) (1) of the
Act,2 she also received retroactive benefits for the preceding
1This regulation has been recodified and now appears at 20 CFR
§§ 404.602-404.614 (1980).
2 This section provides, in pertinent part:
"An individual who would have been entitled to a benefit under subsectio[n] .. .(g) .. .of this section for any month after August 1950 had he

SCHWEIKER v. HANSEN
785

Per Curiam

12 months, which was the maximum retroactive benefit allowed by the Act. Respondent contended, however, that she
should receive retroactive benefits for the 12 months preceding her June 1974 interview with Connelly. An Administrative Law Judge rejected this claim, concluding that Connelly's
erroneous statement and neglect of the Claims Manual did
not estop petitioner from determining respondent's eligibility
for benefits only as of the date of respondent's written application. The Social Security Appeals Council affirmed.
Respondent then brought this lawsuit in the District Court
for the District of Vermont,3 which held that the writtenapplication requirement was "unreasonably restrictive" as
applied to the facts of this case. A divided panel of the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed. 619 F. 2d
942 (1980). It agreed with petitioner as an initial matter
that the regulation requiring a written application is valid
and that the Claims Manual has no legally binding effect.
But it considered the written-application requirement a mere
"procedural requirement" of lesser import than the fact that
respondent in June 1974 had been "substantively eligible"
for the benefits. Id., at 948. In such circumstances, the
majority held, "misinformation provided by a Government
official combined with a showing of misconduct (even if it
does not rise to the level of a violation of a legally binding
rule) should be sufficient to require estoppel." Ibid. In
summarizing its holding, the majority stated that the Government may be estopped "where (a) a procedural not a substantive requirement is involved and (b) an internal procedural manual or guide or some other source of objective
filed application therefor prior to the end of such month shall be entitled
to such benefit for such month if he files application therefor prior to
the end of the twelfth month immediately succeeding such month ......
42 U. S. C. § 402 (j)(1).
3 Judicial review of final decisions by the Secretary is authorized by 42
U. S. C. §405 (g).

OCTOBER TERM, 1980

450 U. S.

Per Curiam

standards of conduct exists and supports an inference of misconduct by a Government employee." Id., at 949.
Judge Friendly dissented. He argued that the majority's
conclusion is irreconcilable with decisions of this Court, e. g.,
Federal Crop Insurance Corp. v. Merrill, 332 U. S. 380
(1947); Montana v. Kennedy, 366 IT.S. 308 (1961); INS v.
Hibi, 414 U. S. 5 (1973) (per curiam), and with decisions
of other Courts of Appeals, Leiinbach v. Califano, 596 F. 2d
300 (CA8 1979); Cheers v. Secretary of HEW, 610 F. 2d 463
(CA7 1979).
We agree with the dissent. This Court has never decided
what type of conduct by a Government employee will estop
the Government from insisting upon compliance with valid
regulations governing the distribution of welfare benefits.
In two cases involving denial of citizenship, the Court has
declined to decide whether even "affirmative misconduct"
would estop the Government from denying citizenship, for in
neither case was "affirmative misconduct" involved. INS v.
Hibi, supra, at 8-9; Montana v. Kennedy, supra, at 314-315.
The Court has recognized, however, "the duty of all courts to
observe the conditions defined by Congress for charging the
public treasury." Federal Crop Insurance Corp. v. Merrill,
supra, at 385. Lower federal courts have recognized that
duty also, and consistently have relied on Merrill in refusing
to estop the Government where an eligible applicant has lost
Social Security benefits because of possibly erroneous replies
to oral inquiries. See Leimbach v. Califano, supra, at 304305; Cheers v. Secretary of HEW, supra, at 468-469; Goldbery v. Weinberger, 546 F. 2d 477, 481 (CA2 1976), cert.
denied. 431 U. S. 937 (1977); Simon v. Califano, 593 F. 2d
121. 123 (CA0 1979) : Parker v. Finch, 327 F. Supp. 193, 195
(ND Ga. 1971): Flamin v. Ribicofj, 203 F. Supp. 507, 510
(SDNY 1961). This is another in that line of cases,' for we
4 JusTICE MARSHA\LL

cites se\eral

eases in which federal courts have

applied estoppel against the Governinent.

Post, at 791.

In some of the

SCHWEIKER v. HANSEN
785

Per Curiam

are convinced that Connelly's conduct-which the majority
conceded to be less than "affirmative misconduct," 619 F. 2d,
at 948-does not justify the abnegation of that duty.
Connelly erred in telling respondent that she was ineligible
for the benefit she sought. It may be that Connelly erred
because he was unfamiliar with a recent amendment which
afforded benefits to respondent.

Id., at 947.

Or it may be

that respondent gave Connelly too little information for him
to know that he was in error.

Id., at 955 (Friendly, J., dis-

senting). But at worst, Connelly's conduct did not cause respondent to take action, cf. Federal Crop Insurance Corp. v.
Merrill, supra, or fail to take action, cf. Montana v. Kennedy,
supra, that respondent could not correct at any time.
Similarly, there is no doubt that Connelly failed to follow
the Claims Manual in neglecting to recommend that respondent file a written application and in neglecting to advise her

of the advantages of a written application. But the Claims
Manual is not a regulation. It has no legal force, and it
does not bind the SSA. Rather, it is a 13-volume handbook
for internal use by thousands of SSA employees, including

the hundreds of employees who receive untold numbers of
oral inquiries like respondent's each year.
If Connelly's
minor breach of such a manual suffices to estop petitioner,

then the Government is put "at risk that every alleged failure
cases, the Government had entered into written agreements which supported the claim of estoppel. E. 7., United States v. Lazy FC Ranch,
481 F. 2d 985, 990 (CA9 1973): Walsonavich v. United States, 335 F. 2d
96, 100-101 (CA3 1964). In others, estoppel did not threaten the public
fise as estoppel does here. E. q.. Semoan v. Mumford, 118 U. S. App.
D. C. 282, 284, and n.6, 335 F. 2d 704, 706, and n. 6 (1964). In another,
a bank claiming estoppel had erred in certain applications because it had
to file before the Government would )rovide it with necessary information.
United States v. Fox Lake State Bank,', 366 F. 2d 962 (CA7 1966). We
need not consider the correctness of these cases. We do think that they
are easily distinguishable from the type of situation presented in this case
and the line of cases we rely upon above.

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Per Curian

450 U. S.

by an agent to follow instructions to the last detail in one
of a thousand cases will deprive it of the benefit of the written application requirement which experience has taught to
be essential to the honest and effective administration of the
Social Security Laws." 619 F. 2d. at 956 (Friendly, J.. dissenting). See United States v. Caceres, 440 U. S. 741, 755756 (1979).5
Finally, the majority's distinction between respondent's
"substantivfel eligibFilityl" and her failure to satisfy a "procedural requirement" does not justify estopping petitioner in
this case. Congress expressly provided in the Act that only
one who "has filed application" for benefits may receive them,
and it delegated to petitioner the task of providing by regulation the requisite manner of application. A court is no more
authorized to overlook the valid regulation requiring that
applications be in writing than it is to overlook any other
valid requirement for the receipt of benefits.
In sum, Connelly's errors "fal[11 far short" of conduct
which would raise a serious question whether petitioner is
estopped from insisting upon compliance with the valid regulation. Montana v. Kennedy, supra, at 314. Accordingly,
we grant the motion of respondent for leave to proceed in
5The contention was made in Caceres that a violation of an internal
IRS regulation concerning electronic eavesdropping should result in exclusion from trial of the evidence obtained by such eavesdropping. In
rejecting this contention, we noted that such a per se rule "wotld take
away from the :xecutive Department the primary responsibility for
fashioning the tl)propriate remedy for the violation of its regulations.
But ,ince the content. and indeed the existence, of the reguldations would
remain within the Exccu ti'e's sole althorit y, the result might well be
fewer and less 1)rotectiv'( regulations. In fie long run, it is far better to
have rules like those contained in the lI S M ianal, and to tolerate
occasional erroneou. administrat ion of the kind is1 layei by thIhis record,
than either to have no rules execl) thos, mauilat ed by tatute, or to have
them framed in a mere precatory form." 440 U. S., at 755-756.

SCHWEIKER v. HANSEN
785

MARSHALL, J., dissenting

forma pauperis and the petition for certiorari and reverse the
judgment of the Court of Appeals.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN joins.
dissenting.
A summary reversal is a rare disposition, usually reserved
by this Court for situations in which the law is settled and
stable, the facts are not in dispute, and the decision below is
clearly in error. Because this is not such a case, I dissent
from the majority's summary reversal of the judgment of the
Court of Appeals, and would instead grant the petition and
set the case for plenary consideration.
The issue here is important, not only in economic terms to
respondent Hansen, but in constitutional terms as well. The
question of when the Government may be equitably estopped
has divided the distinguished panel of the Court of Appeals
in this case, has received inconsistent treatment from other
Courts of Appeals, and has been the subject of considerable
ferment. See, e. g., Corniel-Rodriguez v. INS, 532 F. 2d 301
(CA2 1976); United States v. Lazy FC Ranch, 481 F. 2d
985 (CA9 1973); United States v. Fox Lake State Bank, 366
F. 2d 962 (CA7 1966); Walsonavich v. United States, 335 F.
2d 96 (CA3 1964); Simmons v. United States, 308 F. 2d 938
(CA5 1962); Semaan v. Mumford, 118 U. S. App. D. C. 282,
335 F. 2d 704 (1964); Eichelbergerv. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 88 F. 2d 874 (CA5 1937). See generally K.
Davis, Administrative Law of the Seventies § 17.01 (1976);
Note, Equitable Estoppel of the Government, 79 Colum. L.
Rev. 551 (1979). Indeed, the majority today recognizes that
"[t]his Court has never decided what type of conduct by a
Government employee will estop the Government from insisting upon compliance with valid regulations governing the distribution of welfare benefits." Ante, at 788. The majority
goes on to suggest that estoppel may be justified in some circumstances. Yet rather than address the issue in a compre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

hensive fashion, the Court simply concludes that this is not
such a case.' The apparent message of today's decision-that
we will know an estoppel when we see one-provides inadequate guidance to the lower courts in an area of the law that,
contrary to the majority's view, is far from settled.
Indeed, the majority's attempt to distinguish conflicting
decisions of other courts itself demonstrates the impropriety
of today's surnmary disposition. The majority declines to
"consider the correctness of these eases" and instead simply
notes that they are distinguishable on their facts from the
present case. Ante, at 789. n. 4. Yet the majority fails
to explain why or how these purported factual distinctions
affect the legal question of when the Government may be
equitably estopped. Thus, the lower courts are left guessing
whether the factual differences cited by the majority are of
any real consequence. For example, the majority distinguishes Semaan v. Mum ford, supra, on the ground that "estoppel did not threaten the public fise." Ante, at 789, n. 4.
Even accepting this characterization as correct,' I am unable
to discern from the majority's opinion why the rules governing estoppel should differ depending on whether the party asIronically, the central case relied oin by lhe miajority today, INS v.
Hibi, 414 IT. R. 5 (1973), was also a per ctriam decision rendered without
the benefit of hriefing and orad irgiment. Moreover, in that ease lhe
applicnt alpplied for the souQlt-fter )(i(,fit-naiuralization-20 years
after his siiusl:mtive eligihility had expired, :and the claim of estoppel
arose solely from an alleged general failur, of the Government to adequately iiforin ionviize s who served with the Armed Services of the
United St ates duriiig World Wa r IT of their posibhle eliribility for nturalizatiot. Iere. ill colnirast, respoldent wals eligible for lhe benefits at the
time of her ititerview witit Comnelly and Ilhe claim of estoppel here arises
from Connellv's specific f lii re, It :mswer correct lv her qiuestions coneerniii eliaihility and to ,itcouir:g e her ti, file ain ppliAion.
2-11 Smon, the hciiefit itltimi:,tt,\v oiioit 1h' llie pa rtv laiming estoppel
was rist:limiitt ill ll joh torut which hWwas discmr1ged. Thus, I
believe 1h:t tlte imajorit
i.rs ill claini :iii h tit ie etoppel "did not
tltreatci lii public ise." Anitc, ni 789, 11.4.

SCHWEIKER v. HANSEN
785

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

serting an estoppel seeks monetary benefits from the Government instead of some other form of Government action or
inaction. Similarly, the majority distinguishes United States
v. Fox Lake State Bank, supra, on the ground it involved a
claim of estoppel by "a bank [that] had erred in certain applications because it had to file before the Government would
provide it with necessary information." Ante, at 789, n. 4.
I trust that the majority does not intend to suggest that a
claim of estoppel is more likely to prevail when raised by a
bank rather than by a person eligible for Social Security benefits, but I do not believe that the majority's other basis for
distinguishing that case-that the Government failed to provide the information necessary to file correct applications-is
substantively different from the Government's failure in this
case to supply respondent with correct information when she
sought to apply for benefits. The third distinction offered
by the majority-one that apparently differentiates between
written statements by the Government and oral ones-might
be relevant to the proof of the Government's conduct in some
cases. However, estoppel against the Government has not
been restricted in the past to written misrepresentations, see,
e. g., Simmons v. United States, supra, and today's decision
leaves unclear whether or when such a limitation will apply
in the future. Thus, I believe that the majority, in its haste
to reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals, has simply
added confusion to an already unsettled area by hinting, but
not deciding, that various factual nuances may be dispositive
of estoppel claims against the Government.
Moreover, in summarily reversing the judgment of the
Court of Appeals, the majority glosses over the sorts of situations-such as that presented by this case-that have increasingly led courts to conclude that in some cases hard and fast
rules against estoppel of the Government are neither fair nor
constitutionally required. The majority characterizes Connelly's conduct in this case as little more than an innocent
mistake, based possibly on his unfamiliarity with a "recent

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL, ,1.,

dissenting

450 U. S.

amendment" rendering respondent eligible for benefits, or
possibly, the majority speculates, on respondent's failure to
give Connelly sufficient "information ...to know that he was

in error." Ante, at 789. The majority further concludes that
this error was essentially harmless, because, in the majority's
view, it "did not cause respondent to ...fail to take action..

that respondent could not correct at any time." Ibid.
While these characterizations certainly facilitate the summary disposition the majority seeks, they do not fit this case.
The "recent amendment" had been in effect for a year and
a half when respondent was incorrectly informed that she was
not eligible. Moreover, it is quite clear that respondent provided Connelly with sufficient information on which to make
a correct judgment, had he been so inclined. ' Finally, to conclude that Connelly's incorrect assessment of respondent's
eligibility did not cause her to act to her detriment in a manner that she "could not correct at any time" is to blink in the
face of the obvious. Connelly, and not respondent, had the
legal duty to meet with Social Security applicants and advise
them concerning their eligibility for benefits. While not
necessarily free of error, such preliminary advice is inevitably
accorded great weight by applicants who-like respondentare totally uneducated in the intricacies of the Social Security
-1The apparent basis for the majority's speculation that respondent
may, not have informed Connelly of all the relevant facts is Judge
Friendly's assertion, in dissent, that Connelly did not know that respondent's husband had died. This view is wholly implausible. Respondent
asked Connelly whether she was eligible for mother's insurance benefits.
These benefits are only available to persons whose spouses have died, 42
U. S. C. § 402 (g), a fact that must have been known to Connelly. It is
clear from the record that Connelly assumed that respondent's husband
had died, and instead focused his questions on respondent's marital
status at the time of her husband's death, in the mistaken belief that she
would be ineligible if she was divorced at that time. Thus, respondent
testified before the Administrative Law Judge that Connelly "said I was
not [eligible] because I was divorced at the time of my husband's death."
App. to Brief in Opposition 2a. (Emphasis added.)

SCHWEIKER v. HANSEN

785

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

laws. Hence, the majority's effort to cast respondent as the
architect of her own predicament is wholly unpersuasive.
Instead, the fault for respondent's failure to file a timely
application for benefits that she was entitled to must rest
squarely with the Government, first, because its agent incorrectly advised her that she was ineligible for benefits, and,
second, because the same agent breached his duty to encourage to file a written application regardless of his views on her
eligibility.
In my view, when this sort of governmental misconduct
directly causes an individual's failure to comply with a purely
procedural requirement established by the agency, it may be
sufficient to estop the Government from denying that individual benefits that she is substantively entitled to receive. Indeed, in an analogous situation, we concluded that before an
agency "may extinguish the entitlement of . . . otherwise

eligible beneficiaries, it must comply, at a minimum, with
its own internal procedures." Morton v. Ruiz, 415 U. S. 199,
235 (1974). At the very least, the question deserves more
than the casual treatment it receives from the majority today.

