Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. 00. v. OCEAN INS. Co.

485

SUN MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY V. OCEAN INSURANCE

CoMPIANY.
1. Where, in a suit in admiralty by one insurance company against another
upon a contract of reinsurance, it became essential for the libellant to show
that the risk which it had assumed was the same as that insured against
by the policy sued on, and the Circuit Court asserted the identity of the
insurances, not in the findings of fact, but as a conclusion of law, the
question on appeal is not whether that might be true as a presumption or
inference of fact from the circumstances stated in the findings, but whether,
upon the facts found, it must be true as a matter of law.
2. The rule established in United Staes v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, as to findings of
fact in cases from the Court of Claims, applies to appeals from decrees in
admiralty, under the act of Feb. 16, 1875, c. 77.
3. It is the duty of the assured to communicate all material facts, and he cannot
urge as an excuse for his omission to do so that they were actually known
to the underwriters, unless the knowledge of the latter was as full and particular as his own information.
4. The exaction of information in some instances may be greater in a case of
reinsurance than as between the parties to an original insurance. In the
former, the party seeking to shift the risk he has taken is bound to communicate such information within his knowledge as would be likely to influence the judgment of an underwriter.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.
This was a libel in admiralty, filed in the District Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York by
The Ocean Insurance Company against The Sun Mutual Insur-

ance Company, upon a policy of marine insurance.

A decree

dismissing the libel was rendered in that court, which, on ap-

peal, was reversed by the Circuit Court, and a decree entered in
favor of the libellant.

From that decree the present appeal

has been prosecuted.
The findings of fact made by the Circuit Court as the basis of
its conclusions of law are as follows: 1. At the several times hereinafter mentioned the libellant

and the defendant were insurance companies engaged in the
business of insuring against losses by perils of the sea. The
libellant, to be referred to herein as The Ocean Company, was

incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine, and had its
principal place of business at Portland in that State. The

486

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

defendant, to be referred to as The Sun Company, was incorporated under the laws of the State of New York, and had its
principal place of business in the city of New York.
2: On or about Jan. 19, 1864, The Sun Company issued
its open policy, No. 51,564, to The Ocean Company in the
usual form for the insurance of cargoes at and from Cuba to
Boston or Portland; it being, however, expressly understood
and agreed that no risk would be taken under it unless The
Ocean Company "take or have an amount on same risk equal
to one-half the amount covered by" The Sun Company. On
the 9th of February, 1864, it was agreed in writing, noted upon
the policy, that the policy should " cover such other risks as
this (The Sun) company may approve and indorse" thereon.
Under this new arrangement the clause limiting the risks to
such as The Ocean Company retained an interest in to the extent named, to wit, an amount equal to one-half that of The
Sun, was kept in force; but, Feb. 24, 1864, the president of
The Sun Company wrote to The Ocean Company as follows:
"We are willing that you be not obliged to retain a half of
risk when you do not wish to do so, but we reserve the right
to object to amounts returned, which it is not probable will be
too great very often."
The policy issued is as follows:
"No. 51,564.]

By The Sun Mutual Insurance Company.

[Cargo.

"The Ocean Insurance Company, on account of whom it may
concern, loss payable to them, do make insurance and cause to be
insured, lost or not lost, at and from Cuba to Boston or Portland,
on property.
"1
This company not to be liable for more than fifteen thousand
dollars by any oue vessel at one time, unless otherwise agreed upon
at the time of indorsement.
"It is understood and agreed that this company does not take any
risk unless The Ocean Insurance Company take or have an amount
on same risk equal to one-half the amount covered by this company
upon all kinds of lawful goods and merchandise, laden or
, whereof is
to be laden on board the good vessel or vessels
, or whoever else shall go
master for this present voyage,
for master in the said vessel, or by whatever other name or names
the said vessel, or the master thereof, is or shall be named or called

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL

INS. CO. V. OCEAN INS. Co.

487

Beginning the adventure upon the said goods and merchandises from and immediately following the loading thereof on
aforesaid, and so shall continue
board of the said vessel at
and endure until the said goods and merchandise shall be safely
aforesaid. And it shall and may be lawful for the
landed at
said vessel in her voyage to proceed and sail to, touch, and stay at
any ports or places if thereunto obliged by stress of weather, or
other unavoidable accident, without prejudice to this insurance. The
said goods and merchandise hereby insured are valued at
Touching the adventures and perils, which the said Sun Mutual
Insurance Company is contented to bear and takes upon itself in
this voyage, they are of the seas, men-of-war, fires, enemies, pirates,
rovers, thieves, jettisons, letters of mart and countermart, surprisals,
takings at sea, arrests, restraints, and detainments of all kings,
princes, or people, of what nation, condition, or quality soever, barratry of the masters and mariners, and of all other perils, losses,
and misfortunes that have or shall come to the hurt, detriment, or
damage of the said goods and merchandises, or any part thereof.
And in case of any loss or misfortune, it shall be lawful and necesfactors, servants, and assigns
sary to and for the assured,
to sue, labor, and travel for, in and about the defence, safeguard,
and recovery of the said goods and merchandises, or any part
thereof, without prejudice to this insurance; to the charges whereof
the said insurance company will contribute according to the rate
and quantity of the sum herein insured, having been paid the conassigns at
sideration for this insurance by the assured or
, subject to such
and after the rate of two per cent nominal
addition or deduction as shall make the premium conform to the
established rate at the time the return is made to the company.
Property on deck warranted free from claims for damage by wet,
exposure, breakage, or leakage. And in case of loss, such loss to be
paid within thirty days after proof of loss and proof of interest in
(the amount of the note given for the premium, if
the said
first
deducted), but no partial loss or particular averunpaid, being
age shall in any case be paid, unless amounting to five per cent:
Provided always, and it is hereby further agreed, that if the said
assured shall have made any other assurance upon the premises
aforesaid, prior in date to this policy, then the said Sun Mutual
Insurance Company shall be answerable only for so much as the
amount of such prior assurance may be deficient towards fully covering the premises hereby assured, and the said Sun Mutual Insurance Company shall return the premium upon so much of the sum

488

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

by them assured as they shall be by such prior assurance exonerated from. And in case of any insurance upon the said premises
subsequent in date to this policy, the said Sun Mutual Insurance
Company shall nevertheless be answerable for the full extent of the
sum by them subscribed hereto, without right to claim contribution
from such subsequent assurers, and shall accordingly be entitled to
retain the premium by them received in the same manner as if no
such subsequent assurance had been made. It is also agreed that
the acts of the insured or insurers in recovering, saving, and preserving the property insured, in case of disaster, shall not be considered a waiver or acceptance of an abandonment. It is also
agreed that the property be warranted by the assured free from any
charge, damage, or loss which may arise in consequence of a seizure
or detention, for or on account of any illicit or prohibited trade, or
any trade in articles contraband of war.
"If laden on board a vessel of a belligerent nation, warranted free
from loss or expense, arising from capture, seizure, or detention, or
the consequences of any attempt thereat; or if by a neutral vessel,
warranted not to abandon in case of capture, seizure, or detention,
until after condemnation of the property insured, nor until ninety
days after notice of said condemnation is given to the company;
also, warranted not to abandon in case of blockade, and free from
any expense in consequence of capture, seizure, detention, or blockade, but in the event of blockade to be at liberty to proceed to an
open port, and there end the voyage; any stipulations in this policy to the contrary notwithstanding.
"In case of claims for damage on dry goods or hardware exceeding fifteen per cent, the company to have the privilege of settling
upon the principle of a salvage loss, paying to the assured the sum
insured, with the freight and the duties.
" In witness whereof, the president or vice-president of the said
Sun Mutual Insurance Company hath hereunto subscribed his name
and the sum insured, and caused the same to be attested by their
secretary in New York, the sixteenth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-four.
MEO AUMr.

-It

is agreed, that bar, bundle, rod, hoop and

sheet iron, wire of all kinds, tin plates, steel, madder, sumac, wickerware and willow, manufactured or otherwise, salt, grain of all
kinds, tobacco, Indian meal, fruits (whether preserved or otherwise), cheese, dry fish, vegetables and roots, rags, hempen yarn,
bags, cotton bagging and other articles used for bags or bagging,
pleasure carriages, household farniture, skins and hides, musical

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS.

CO. V.

OCEAN INS. CO.

489

instruments, looking-glasses and all other articles that are perishable in their own nature, are warranted by the assured free from
average, unless general; hemp; tobacco stems, matting and cassia,
except in boxes, free from average under twenty per cent, unless
general; and sugar, flax, flax-seed and bread are warranted by the
assured free from average under seven per cent, unless general; and
coffee in bags or bulk, pepper in bags or bulk, and rice free from
average under ten per cent, unless general.
"Warranted by the assured free from damage or injury from
dampness, change of flavor, or being spotted, discolored, musty or
mouldy, except caused by actual contact of sea water with the
articles damaged, occasioned by sea perils. In case of partial loss
by sea damage to dry goods, cutlery, or other hardware, the loss
shall be ascertained by a separation and sale of the portion only of
the contents of the packages so damaged and not otherwise; and
the same practice shall obtain as to all other merchandise as far as
practicable.
"This company is not liable for leakage on molasses or other liquids, unless occasioned by stranding or collision with another vessel.
"If the voyage aforesaid shall have been begun and shall have
terminated before the date of this policy, then there shall be no
return of premium on account of such termination of the voyage.
"In all cases of return of premium in whole or in part, one-half
per cent upon the sum insured is to be retained by the assurers.
"$100,000 (one hundred thousand dollars).
"S. WHITni_.&D, Vice-President.
"E. R. ANTHONY, Secretary."
1864. February 2. Additional $100,000 (one hundred thousand dollars), subject to same conditions as above.
" S. WHITEHEAD, Vice-President.
"E. R. AXTnoNy, Secretary."
Written on margin opposite additional subscription the following: "Warranted by the assured free from all claim for loss or damage
arising from any warlike or belligerent act, or from capture, seizure, restraint, or detention by any privateer, cruiser, or armed vessel whatsoever."
3. This policy was issued with the expectation that it would
be used by The Ocean Company for the purposes of reinsur-

490

SUN MUTUAL INS. 00. v. OCEAN INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

ance, an arrangement for such a business on the part of the
company having been made.
4. Dec. 24, 1863, Charles S. Pennell, as an owner and agent

of the ship "C. S. Pennel]," of 975 tons burthen, and then
lying in the harbor of Portland, Maine, chartered the whole of
the vessel, including the state-rooms in cabin not used by the
officers, and deck-rooms not used for the crew or for sails and
stores, to Sutton & Co., for a voyage from New York to San

Francisco.

No cargo was to be received on board except with

the written consent of the charterers, and they were to pay
" for the charter or freight" on the good and proper discharge
of the cargo in San Francisco, $26,500, less two and one-half
per cent commission. George M. Melcher was at the time
master of the ship, and his primage on the freight money, if
earned, would have been $1,325. This charter will be referred to as the San Francisco charter.

5. After the making of this charter the vessel sailed from
Portland to New York, and was there put up and advertised
by Sutton & Co. as a general ship for San Francisco. That
firm at that time represented what was known as the Dispatch
Line of San Francisco packets.
6. January 30, while the ship was in New York, loading
under her San Francisco charter, and advertised for that voyage, her master chartered her again to the Peruvian government. By the terms of this charter she was to sail from New
York on or before June 1, 1864, to San Francisco, and thence
proceed, with all convenient dispatch, to Callao, Peru, and
from thence, if on inspection she should be found to be well
conditioned for the voyage, to the Chincha Islands for a cargo
of guano to be taken to Hamburg or Rotterdam. The freight
to be paid was at the rate of £4 per ton of 20 cwt. British net
weight of guano, subject, however, to a deduction of five shillings per ton if the vessel was not ready in Callao to proceed
to Chinchas by December 15. This charter will be referred
to as the IRotterdam charter.
T. On the 5th of February, 1864, while the ship was in New
York loading, Charles S. Pennell, a part owner, took from The
Ocean Company a policy insuring his interest in the ship for
$8,000 against war risks, and his interest in the Rotterdam

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. v. OCEAN INS. Co.

491

charter for $3,000 against marine risks on the voyage between
New York and the Chinehas. In this policy the duration and
locality of the risk was described as "at and from New York,
to, at, and from San Francisco, Callao, and the Chinchas."
Melcher was at the time owner of one-eighth
8. George MN.
of the ship, and master. On the 20th March he wrote one
Sawyer, his agent it Portland, advising that the ship was
about ready to sail, and directing that insurance be effected on
his interest as follows:.........
..
War risk to San Francisco, ship ...
Charter to San Francisco, $26,500--.. ..........
.
..............
Primage on same .....
Homeward charter from Chinchas, insure out, say 1,750
tons, at £4 to £7,000, at currency rate of exchange,
.
...............
. .
$52,400, my j...
Primage on same ........................
.
Chronometers, Dent, 1883; Neegus, 1,261 ......
...
...........
And our effects, clothing, &c ...

5,000
3,300
1,325

6,550
2,650
500
1,000
$19,425

In the same letter it was said: "I think you had better put
5 or ,$6,000 more marine risk in case I should lose the ship."
9. Upon the receipt of this letter Sawyer applied to The
Ocean Company for a policy upon the Rotterdam charter,
primage, and personal effects to San Francisco. In doing so,
he exhibited his letter of instructions and explained fully all
the circumstances. The risk was accepted and the policy
issued March 23, in which the risk was described as follows:
",$6,550 on charter; .92,650 on primage; and also 81,500 on
property on board ship ' Charles S. Pennell,' at and from New
York to San Francisco."
10. On the same day The Ocean Company insured the master for $3,000 on his interest in the ship during the whole of
her voyage, describing the duration and locality of the risk 'as
"at and from New York to, at, and from San Francisco and
Chinchas, with usual liberties at Callao, to her port of advice
and discharge in Europe."
11. On the same 23d of March the president of The Ocean
Company wrote the vice-president of The Sun as follows: -

492

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

" .... I also enclose returns for registry as follows: ....
$5,000, ship ' C. S. Pennell,' to San Francisco and Chinchas, war;
$5,000 fr. of do .....
.P. S.- I also enclose an additional return
for insurance on charter, primage, and property per ship ' C. S. Pennell' to San Francisco only."
The returns enclosed in this letter were as follows: "To the Sun Mutual Insurance Company:
"Enter on open policy of this company No. 51,564, $5,000 on
charter of ship ' Charles S. Pennell' at and from New York to, at,
and from San Francisco and Callao to Chinchas.
"Rate, three per cent on board.
"New York, March 23d, 1864.
"J. W., *F.
-P.Ocean Ins. Co.
"Per G. A. W., Sec'y."
"To the Sun Mutual Insurance Company:
"Enter on open policy of this company No. 51,564, war risk only,
$5,000 on ship ' Chas. S. Pennell,' at and from New York, to, at, and
from San Francisco to Callao to Chinchas.
"1Rate,three per cent on board.
"New York, March 23d, 1864.
"J. W., F.
F.
Ocean 1ns. Co.
"Per G. A. W., Sec'y."
"To the Sun Mutual Insurance Company:
"Enter on open policy of this company No. 51,564, $6,550 on
charter, $2,650 on primage, and $1,500 on property, on board ship
'Chas. S. Pennell,' at and from New York to San Francisco, including war risk.
"Rate, six per cent on board.
"New York, March 23d, 1864.
"J. W., 1F. 1. Ocean Ins. Co.
"Per G. A. W., Bec'y."
The first and second of these returns were for reinsurance
on the risks taken for Charles S. Pennell, and the last on
account of the risks taken in favor of the master on the Rotterdam charter and personal property on board, from New York
to San Francisco. The risk on the vessel, taken in favor of
the master at the same time, was not reported to The Sun
Company.
12. Upon the receipt of this letter, with its enclosures, the

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. Co. v. OCEAN INS. Co.

493

president of The Sun Company wrote The Ocean Company,
under date of March 24, as follows: " Your favor of the 23d inst. is received, . .. and returns as
Those . . . on charter per 'Chas. S. Pennell,' 810,700, in
conformity thereto. For the marine risk per IChas. S. Pennell' to
San Francisco, thence to Callao & Chinchas, our regular tariff rate
is four and one-half per cent; the war risk is worth the same but
we propose to enter for both marine and 'war on $5,000 for four per
cent.'
stated.

13. To this the president of The Ocean Company replied,
under date March 26, as follows: "Your favor of the 24th inst. is received. I think, really, considering that you have the risk on charter, primage, and property to San
Francisco at full rates, you should take the war and marine to San
Francisco and Chinchas on ' C. S. Pennell' at six per cent, as there is
or will be but little risk in the Pacific after leaving S~an Francisco.
I can have both risks taken at less than these rates.'
14. In response to this the vice-president of The Sun wrote,
under date of MNarch 28, as follows:"Your favor of the 26th inst. is received with a return, . . .
which is entered in conformity thereto, as have also been the returns of the 23d inst., per ship ' C. S. PennelL"'
15. The indorsement of these returns upon the open policy
was as follows: Vessel.
Ship Chas. S. Pennel
Am'ts.
On charter . . . 85,000 ..........
1864.
March 23. Ship Chas. S. Pennell .
Am'ts.
On vessel . . . . $5,000 ........
" " "New York, San Francisco,
c " (1
cc
c
I 1( it
"
"
1864.
March 23.

From
N. Y., San Francisco
Rates.
3 . . .

ToCallao & Chincha
Prems.
$10 marine

N. Y., San Francisco Callao & Chinchas
Rate.
Prems.
. 3 . . .
$150 war only
charter, 6,550; 6,393
war & marine
cc
primage, 2,650; 6,159
fc
property, 1,500; 6, 90

16. At the time these returns were made and accepted The
Sun Company had actual knowledge of the San Francisco
charter, and had taken risks on cargo shipped on board the
vessel to San Francisco under it.

494

SUN MUTUAL INS. Co. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

17. When the returns were made by The Ocean Company
to The Sun for acceptance and indorsement, no special mention was made of the Rotterdam charter, and no information
was given The Sun Company of what had transpired between
The Ocean Company and the agent of the master when the
insurance was effected. No allusion was made to the letter of
the master to his agent, which was shown the president of The
Ocean in connection with the application to that company,
and The Sun Company had no other knowledge of the existence of the Rotterdam charter than such as is to be inferred
from the correspondence which preceded the acceptance of the
risk.
18. Both the president of The Ocean Company and the vicepresident of The Sun Company are dead. The first-named
died in July, 1869, and the last some time before Jan. 1, 1867.
19. The ship sailed from New York to San Francisco about
the 1st of April, 1864, having on board a full cargo under
the San Francisco charter. Having met with a disaster on the
voyage, she put into Rio Janeiro, where she was condemned
and sold, and the voyage broken up.
20. The loss under the risk taken in favor of Charles S.
Pennell, both on the ship and Rotterdam charter, was paid
by The -Sun Company without objection, Oct. 23, 1865, and
May 5, 1866.
21. In due time after the loss occurred, the master filed with
The Ocean Company his proofs under his policy on account of
the Rotterdam charter and his primage thereon. These proofs
were promptly forwarded by The Ocean Company to The Sun,
and no objections to their form were ever made. Payment
was refused by The Sun Company on the ground that the
master was over insured, and also upon the ground that the
ship had been fraudulently cast away, and The Ocean Company
was advised not to pay the claim on that account.
22. Pursuant to this advice, payment was refused by The
Ocean Company, and, in October, 1866, Melcher, the master,
commenced suit upon his policy in the courts of Maine.
23. Of the commencement of this suit notice was immediately given The Sun Company by The Ocean Company, and
The Sun Company interested itself in the preparation for de-

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

495

fence. An agent of those interested, including another company having a risk upon the voyage, was sent to Rio Janeiro
to ascertain the facts in relation to the loss, and report. In the
mean time the suit upon the policy was suffered to remain in
the court without being pressed. At the October Term, 1869,
the counsel for the plaintiff insisting that something should be
done, it was agreed, on behalf of The Ocean Company, that the
case should, if possible, be tried at the January Term, 1870.
In November, or late in October, 1869, the counsel on the part
of The Ocean Company visited New York for the purpose of
having a personal interview in respect to the case with the
officers of The Sun Company. He there met the then vicepresident of the company. At the interview which then took
place, the points of defence that had been previously suggested
by the companies having been discussed, the counsel stated
that, in his opinion, they could not be sustained by the evidence, but that he intended to make the point that the Rotterdam charter was not included in the risk as described in the
policy. He said, however, that he had been informed by the
attorneys who conducted the case for the plaintiff they had
extrinsic evidence which would establish the liability and
which they expected to introduce. This extrinsic evidence
he considered inadmissible, but at the same time said that
if admitted, the defence to the action would undoubtedly fail.
He then informed The Sun Company that upon the presentation of the evidence on the trial he should object to its admission, and he had no doubt the presiding judge, under the
practice of that State, would take the advice of the Supreme
Court upon that question before proceeding further. If the
evidence was ruled out, he expected to succeed in his defence; but if admitted, he had little hopes. He did not at
that time know precisely what the testimony would be, and
he did not communicate to the company the particular facts
relied upon.
24. At the conclusion of the interview he was instructed by
the vice-president of The Sun Company to go forward with
the defence, and make every point possible. He was paid
at the time one hundred dollars, for which he gave a receipt
as follows -

496

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

"NEw YoRx, Nov. 2d, 1869.
"Received from The Sun Mutual Insurance Company one hundred dollars, on account of legal expenses and services for defending
The Ocean Insurance Company of Portland from claims for loss on
charter and primage in case of the ship IC. S. Pennell,' reinsured
by The Sun Mutual Insurance Company for The Ocean Insurance
Company.
"JOHNr R Axn."

25. At the April Term, 1870, the cause came on for trial, and
the questions were raised upon the admissibility of the extrinsic
evidence, and reported to the Supreme Court for its opinion.
The testimony objected to included the deposition of Sawyer,
the agent of the insured, as to what transpired between him
and The Ocean Company at the time the insurance was
effected; the letter from the insured to Sawyer specifying the
risk to be taken, and which was submitted to the company by
the agent, as showing the authority under which he acted, and
also the Rotterdam charter.
26. On the 6th of October, 1870, the attorney of The Ocean
Company sent The Sun Company a copy of the case thus
made, which contained a statement of the evidence offered and
objected to.
In the letter transmitting this document, the attorney

said: "The question now presented to our court is simply whether
he (the insured) shall be allowed to put in the testimony. If not
allowed, there is an end of the case. If allowed, then we go to trial
upon other points of defence."
26,. In reply to this the president of The Sun Company
wrote as follows:
"Nvw YoREr, Oct. 15, 1870.
"Messrs. J. & E. M. RAND, Portland, Me.
"GNTs, -Yours of 6th instant was duly received, also the
printed documents which you sent, and which we have perused
carefully.
"It is shown by the testimony that the policy was made in
accordance with the application of the plaintiff, and that there was
no misunderstanding in relation thereto calling for the admission of
-

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO.

V. OCEAN INS. C0.

497

evidence outside of the policy to explain it ; certainly none would
be admissible to contradict it, for that would be setting up a new
contract other than the policy itself which is sued upon.
"It is important, therefore, to have excluded all evidence tending to contradict the policy. By the policy, as made, the plaintiff
insured on charter New York to San Francisco, $6,550; on primage,
$2,650; on personal effects, $1,500. There is no such charter shown;
but the plaintiff sets up a charter to San Francisco and ports beyond, as described in the charter-party. The insurance of the
charter to San Francisco was an insurance of only a part of said
charter, not amounting even to a part insurance of the charter, because as the charter-party is to the effect that no money is to be paid
by the charterers unless the whole round voyage is performed, and
the contract being indivisible if no money was to be paid for the
passage to San Francisco, the plaintiff had no insurable interest in
that part of the charter; besides, the ship was loaded to her full
capacity, and was carrying full freight on said passage outside of
the charter, which was covered under special policies. The plaintiff
has, therefore, by the perils insured against in the policy, suffered
no loss beyond what he has already been indemnified for under his
policy on freight. The interest of the plaintiff in the passage to
San Francisco was, therefore, an impossible interest. I do not
mean to say that he had no interest in the charter-party, but the
risk under our policy being only to San Francisco, ended before the
charter-party could by any possibility be performed. I think, therefore, that the main question is the question of interest, and think
that the above reasons will be found sound in law. Please let me
hear from you as to your opinion of them, and also as to your line
of defence, - what your points are, - in order that I may be able
to form some opinion as to the ultimate issue of the suit.
"Yours respectfully,
"(Signed)
J. P. PAULISON, President."
27. In or about January, 1872, the Supreme Court decided
that the testimony was admissible, and on the 16th of that
month the attorneys advised The Sun Company of the result,
and sent a copy of the opinion delivered. They also said that
the case would probably come up again for hearing in a week
or two, and asked that papers of any kind relating to the defence in the possession of The Sun Company might be forwarded
to them at once.
von. Xvii.

32

498

. SUN

MUTUAL IzNS. Co. v. OCEAN INs. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

28. Upon the receipt of this last letter the case was submitted by The Sun Company to its counsel in New York, who
gave his opinion in writing to the effect "that The Sun Mutual Insurance Company's liability under the reinsurance policy
cannot be extended beyond the obvious import of the terms in
which it is expressed. The letter of Melcher ordering the insurance not having been exhibited to them, nor the explanations of Sawyer made to them, they cannot be affected by
them; and hence, if the admission of extrinsic evidence as to
what took place between Sawyer and The Ocean Company,
when the original insurance was made, varies the case as between that company and Melcher from what it appears to be
on the face of the original policy, I cannot see that it is a
matter that concerns The Sun Company."
29. January 29 a copy of this opinion was forwarded by The
Sun Company to the attorneys in Portland, and attention called
to its contents.
30. At the January Term, 1872, the cause was again tried,
and the testimony being all in, the case was withdrawn from
the jury and submitted to the court to enter such judgment as
law and the evidence required. The point was directly made
by The Ocean Company that the policy never attached, because the ship never actually or legally sailed under the
Rotterdam charter.
31. On the 12th of July, 1872, the case having been printed,
a copy was sent by the attorneys in Portland to The Sun Company, with a statement that the cause would come on for argument before the full bench in a few days. Permission was
also asked to draw on the company at sight for $500 on account
of fees and disbursements.
81J. On the 5th of July The Sun Company replied, denying
its liability to pay fees, and saying that, "as the suit is against
The Ocean Company and not against us, you must look to
them for your fees." It is also said in the letter that when
the payment of $100 was made, in November, 1869, the case
as subsequently developed was not fully understood.
82. A judgment was afterwards rendered in the suit against
The Ocean Company for $9,200, and interest from April 27,
1865.

Oct. 1882.]

499

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. V. OCEAN INS. CO.

33. This judgment was satisfied by payments of The Ocean
Company as follows: July 19, 1873 ...
July 21, 1873 ...

...........
..........

$4,234 29
.10,086
55

34. The costs in the action which were included in the payment were $574.17.
35. The account of the counsel in the cause for their professional services and disbursements, over and above the $100
paid by The Sun Company, was $1,164.70. This was also
paid by The Ocean Company, July 23, 1873, and was reasonable.
36. Payment of the amount of the judgment and the account
for counsel fees was duly demanded of The Sun Company
before the commencement of this suit, and refused.
The following is the statement by the Circuit Court of its
conclusions of law 1. The Sun Company's policy covers the Rotterdam charter.
2. The policy is not void because of any concealment by The
Ocean Company.
3. The judgment in the Maine court against The Ocean
Company is conclusive upon the issues there made and decided,
and binds The Sun.
4. This action is not barred either by the Statute of Limitations or by lapse of time.
5. The Sun Company is bound in law to reimburse The
Ocean for moneys expended on account of counsel fees, and
the costs and expenses in defending the suit in the Maine
court.
6. The libellant is entitled to a decree against the defendant
for -

1. Amount paid in satisfaction of the Maine judgment
2. Amount paid for counsel fees, expenses, &c.

In all ......

...............

.

.

.

$14,320 84
1,164 70

.$15,485

54

With interest from July 21, 1873, and the costs in both
courts.

500

SUN MUTUAL INS. Co. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. William H. IJvarts and Mr. Joseph H. Choate for the
appellant.Mr. B. N. Taft and Mr. Robert D. Benedict for the
appellee.
delivered the opinion of the
court, and, after making the above statement, proceeded as
follows : By the express terms of the act of Congress of Feb. 16, 1875,
c. 77, defining the jurisdiction of this court, in cases such as the
present, we are limited to a determination of the questions of
law arising upon the record, including the rulings of the Circuit Court, presented in a bill of exceptions. And, as was
decided in The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440, and substantially repeated several times since, "the facts as found and stated by
the court below are conclusive. The case stands here precisely as though they had been found by the verdict of a jury."
The Benefactor, 102 id. 214; The Adriatic, 103 id. 730; The
Annie Lindsley, 104 id. 185 ; The Francis Wright, 105 id. 381.
Or as it was put in The Annie Lindsley, 104 id. 185, 188:
" The question, and the only question, which we can consider
is, whether the facts found support the conclusions of law and
the decree." The findings of fact being in the nature of a
special verdict, we can go neither behind nor beyond them. We
cannot correct them by inquiring into the evidence, nor supply
any omissions by intendment or inference. The rule applicable to special verdicts was stated in Collins v. Riley, 104 id.
322, 327, - "that the special verdict must contain all the
facts from which the law is to arise; that whatever is not
found therein is, for the purposes of a decision, to be considered
as not existing; that it must present, in substance, the whole
matter upon which the court is asked to determine the legal
rights of the parties, and cannot, therefore, be aided by intendment or by extrinsic facts, although such facts may appear
elsewhere in the record," - which needs qualification in its application to such cases as the present ; for our jurisdiction, in
cases of this description, extending to a determination of the
questions of law arising upon the record, may be predicated of
facts which appear in any part of it, whether admitted by the
MR. JUSTmC

MATTHEws

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. V. OCEAN INS.

CO.

501

parties in the pleadings, or by stipulation, or found by the
court. But it is essential that the findings of fact should state
the facts, and not the evidence merely, even although the evidence be sufficient to establish the fact. Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall stated this rule in Barnes v. Williams, 11 Wheat.
415, when he said: "Although, in the opinion of the court,
there was sufficient evidence in the special verdict from which
the jury might have found the fact, yet they have not found it,
and the court could not, upon a special verdict, intend it. The
special verdict was defective in stating the evidence of the fact,
instead of the fact itself. It was impossible, therefore, that a
judgment could be pronounced for the plaintifE." This was
approved in Bodges v. -aston, 106 U. S. 408. And see Prentice
v. Zane's Admn'r, 8 How. 470, and Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wall.
125.
These observations have a material and important application in this case.
It was essential to the establishment of the libellant's right
of recovery to show that the risk insured against by the policy
sued on was the same which the libellant was adjudged liable
for on its policy to Melcher. The policy of the respondent in
this suit, although, in substance, a reinsurance, was not so in
form. It did not describe the risk by reference to the policy
of The Ocean Company, so that the identity between the two
could be ascertained by mere comparison. It did not, in fact,
allude to any such policy. The risk is described, solely, by
words descriptive of the property insured, without a definition
of the interest of the assured. It became necessary, therefore,
to aver the identity of the two insurances. This the libel
does. But, as it is denied in the answer, it became necessary
to prove it. The finding of facts, however, in the Circuit
Court does not assert it. It contains other facts bearing on
the question. But the conclusion itself is stated, not as a fact,
but as a conclusion of law, from the facts found,- the facts and
the conclusions of law having been separately stated, as expressly required by the act of Congress. The first conclusion
of law, in the statement made by the Circuit Court, is that
"The Sun Company's policy covers the Rotterdam charter."
The question, therefore, presented to us on this appeal is,

502

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

not whether that might be true as a conclusion of fact from
the circumstances stated in the findings of fact, but whether,
upon the facts found, it must be true as matter of law.
The distinction is obvious and important. The circumstances in evidence might be such, that a jury, or a court sitting to try the case without a jury, would believe, as the more
reasonable probability, according to the ordinary and observed
course of human conduct, that the fact disputed bad or had
not actually taken place; and in that case the inference would
be one of fact. On the other hand, the facts found might be
such as to be, in point of law, inconsistent with any supposition, except that of the existence or non-existence of the fact
in controversy, in which case the conclusion is necessary, independently of any belief based upon what is more or less probable, because the law declares the uniform effect of such a state
and condition of circumstances. The difference is between
presumptions of fact and rebuttable presumptions of law, or
presumptiones juris tantum, as distinguished from presumptiones juris et do jure, according to the classification of Best,
Law of Evidence, sect. 314, 4th English ed., who states the
practical test for distinguishing them thus: "Where a presumption of law is disregarded by a jury, a new trial will be
granted ex debito justitice; but where the presumption disregarded is only one of fact, however strong or obvious, the
granting a new trial is at the discretion of the court in bane."
Sect. 323.
In other words, when the testimony has been sifted and
weighed, and the actual circumstances of the transaction stated
in a connected form, the law, by means of its presumptions,
determines whether they establish such a relation between the
parties as to give rise to reciprocal rights and obligations, and
if so, what legal consequences have followed. The issue to be
determined may be one, in form, merely of fact, as whether a
particular contract was made, or whether one or both of the
parties have been guilty of negligence. The circumstances of
the entire transaction having been ascertained and stated, the
issue is determined by the interpretation which the law puts
upon them. This is an office quite distinct from ascertaining
the circumstances themselves by the process of reduction from

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. Co. v. OCEAN INS. CO.

508

the original mass of evidence. It involves only a consideration of the facts as found, in their relation to each other,
in view of fixed legal presumptions, in order to determine
and declare the effect to be given to them as a connected
whole.
This rule was, after much consideration, established in
United ,State8 v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265, in reference to the examination of the judgments of the Court of Claims, and we reiterate it here, as equally applicable to appeals from the decrees
in admiralty of the Circuit Courts of the United States under
the act of 1875. In that case, one of the issues to be determined was, whether the proceeds of the sale of the captured
property belonging to the claimant had been paid into the
treasury. No direct proof to that effect had been given, but
if shown at all, it was by way of inference from certain circumstantial facts established by the evidence, and set forth in
the finding of the court below. The Chief Justice said, upon
this point: "Confessedly, the court has found all the facts
which have been directly established by the evidence. These
facts are not evidence in the sense that evidence means the
statements of witnesses or documents produced in court for
inspection. They are the results of evidence, and whether
they establish the ultimate fact to be reached is, if a question
of fact at all, to say the least, in the nature of a question of
law. If what has been found is, in the absence of anything to
the contrary, the legal equivalent of a direct finding that the
proceeds of this claimant's property have been paid into the
treasury, the judgment is right; otherwise, it is wrong. The
inquiry thus presented is as to the legal effect of facts proved,
not of the evidence given to make the proof," &c. . . . " The
rule relieves us from the necessity of considering the evidence
at all, and confines our attention to the legal effect upon the
rights of the parties of the facts proven as they have been sent
up from the court below. In this way the weight of the evidence is left for the sole consideration of the court below, but
the ultimate effect of the facts, which the direct evidence has
established, is left open for review here on appeal."
Tried according to this standard, we are quite clear that the
conclusion under examination cannot be sustained.

504

SUN MUTUAL INS. Co. v. OCEAN INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

The facts material to the point, and which, in our opinion,
justify and require this result, are as follows: The language of the policy sued on, descriptive of the risk
assumed, is, "$6,550 on charter, $2,650 on primage, and $1,500
on property on board ship I C. S. Pennell,' at and from New
York to San Francisco." The proposal for this insurance was
made March 28, 1864, by letter. The vessel, at that time
lying at New York, had been previously chartered to her full
capacity for a voyage from New York to San Francisco, of
which both companies had knowledge; and on Jan. 30, 1864,
was chartered by Melcher, her master, to the Peruvian government, by the terms of which charter she was to sail from
New York on or before June 1, 1864, to San Francisco, and
thence proceed, with all convenient dispatch, to Callao, Peru,
and from thence, if on inspection she should be found well conditioned for the voyage, to the Chincha Islands for a cargo of
guano to be taken to Hamburg or Rotterdam. Of this second
charter The Ocean Company. had full knowledge, having, on
Feb. 5, 1864, insured to Pennell, a part owner, his interest in
both the ship and this charter on the voyage described as "at
and from New York to, at, and from San Francisco, Callao, and
the Chinchas." And on March 20, 1864, Melcher, one-eighth
owner and master, by letter to his agent, Sawyer, directed the
latter to insure his interest in the ship and both charters, specifically describing them, and primage and personal effects on
board. Sawyer, exhibiting this letter to The Ocean Company
and explaining fully the circumstances, that company issued
one policy to Melcher, describing the risk in the same words as
those used in the policy sued; and by a separate policy insured
$3,000 on his interest in the ship during the whole voyage,
described as "at and from New York to, at, and from San
Francisco and Chinchas, with usual liberties at Callao, to her
port of advice and discharge in Europe."
The letter of March 23, 1864, from The Ocean Company to
The Sun Company, containing the return of the insurance
involved in this suit, included two others, both of which were
accepted, one of $5,000 "on charter of ship ' Charles S. Pennell' at and from New York to, at, and from San Francisco
and Callao to Chinchas;" the other, a war risk only of $5,000

Oct. 1882.]

SUtN MUTUAL INS. Co. V. OCEAN INS. Co.

505,

on the ship, on voyage described in the same words. The correspondence between the companies on the subject, at the time
these risks were assumed, undoubtedly contains a reference to
a voyage from New York to San Francisco, and thence to Callao and Chinchas, and of two insurances on charter, in one of
which the voyage is described as including New York and
Chinchas via San Francisco and Callao, and in the other, from
New York to San Francisco; but there is nothing which indicates with any conclusive force that there were two distinct
charters, and certainly nothing to indicate that there was one
which included the return voyage from the Chinchas to Rotterdam. And in respect to the latter, it is found, as a fact, that
"The Sun Company had no other knowledge of the existence
of the Rotterdam charter than such as is to be inferred from
the correspondence," which, as we have just stated, and as
must appear from the full text of the letters set out in the
findings, communicated no knowledge of such a charter whatever.
It will not suffice to say, as was said in argument, that the
language of the correspondence and of the three contemporaneous insurances was such as to give The Sun Company
notice of a voyage and charter beyond San Francisco, as well
as of one to that port from New York, and that they must
include distinct interests, so that, upon inquiry, it might have
become informed of all the particulars of the Rotterdam charters. For the question is not one of notice sufficient to suggest
further inquiry, and of due diligence in prosecuting it, disregard of which may be alleged as laches, but whether the minds
of the parties in fact met in a common understanding, so as to
consummate the contract sued on. And to show that, it was
necessary to prove, in the absence of express words, and to'resolve the ambiguity arising upon the evidence, that, from
the circumstances, in point of fact, The Sun Company must
have intended to insure an interest in the Rotterdam charter.
Proof of its actual knowledge that such a charter was in existence would be only one step in that direction, and even
that is wanting. Had it been supplied, the burden of proof
would have still remained with the libellant to show that it
was meant by both parties to describe that particular risk,

506

SuN MUTUAL INS. Co. v. OCEAN INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

under an insurance upon a charter during a voyage described
as at and from New York to San Francisco.
It is admitted that the language of the policy does not of
itself import an insurance of a charter beyond one during the
voyage described. Primafacie, indeed, it describes a charter
terminating with that voyage, and not beyond. In the action
brought by Melcher against The Ocean Company in Maine,
and determined in the Supreme Court of that State, it was
claimed by the defendant that the language of the policy conclusively described a charter-party limited to the description of
the voyage, and that proof was not admissible to show that
any other existed and was the one meant. And it was held in
that case, in substance, that without such proof there could be
no recovery; but that, inasmuch as a description of the voyage
during which the risk was insured did not necessarily determine the extent of the charter-party under which the freight
was to be earned, it appearing from extrinsic evidence that
two charter-parties existed to which the insurance might apply,
a latent ambiguity was disclosed which was susceptible of explanation by parol evidence. And accordingly, upon proof of
the communications between Melcher and The Ocean Company, not made known at any time to The Sun Company, the
former was adjudged to have insured by its policy his interest
in the Rotterdam charter. Without that proof he must have
failed in his litigation. It cannot be claimed that such proof
is admissible to explain the contract of the appellant.
Nor is the liability of the latter affected by the fact that its
policy is one of reinsurance in fact; nor by the circumstance
that it aided in the maintenance of the defence in the suit
against The Ocean Company; nor by the result and judgment
in that action.
The policy, although a reinsurance, is a contract, which, like
others, must be construed according to its terms, and the same
ambiguity arises in respect to it that was found to exist in
respect to the original insurance. The Sun Company, in maintaining the defence in aid of The Ocean Company, that the
policy of the latter did not cover an insurance of Melcher's
interest in the Rotterdam charter, maintained also, what it
has continued to do in this suit, its own defence against the

Oct. 1882.]

SuN MUTUAL INS. CO. V. OCEAN INS. CO.

507

changed claim of The Ocean Company which the latter now
asserts, with the advantage that its defence cannot be overcome by proof of explanations outside of the policy itself, such
as defeated the libellant in its contest with Melcher. And the
judgment rendered in favor of the latter, upon the point in
question, as to what was in fact the contract made with him
by The Ocean Company, is no adjudication against the appellant, as to what is the contract between the parties to this suit;
for it is only upon the pre-supposition of the identity of the
subject-matter of the two contracts that it could be pretended
that the judgment against The Ocean Company would be admissible in evidence, for any purpose material here, against
The Sun Company. To admit it as evidence of that identity
is a pure retitio principii. Accordingly, it was an additional
and substantive error in the Circuit Court to find, as a conclusion of law, as it did, that "the judgment in the Maine court
against The Ocean Company is conclusive upon the issues
there made, and decided and binds The Sun." It was, of
course, conclusive upon The Ocean Company, but was not
even admissible in evidence against The Sun Company, without prior proof that the policy of the latter company was
intended to cover the Rotterdam charter.
Much reliance is placed, in argument in support of this contention on the part of the libellant, upon the circumstance,
stated in the findings of fact, that "the loss under the risk
taken in favor of Charles S. Pennell, both on the ship and
Rotterdam charter, was paid by the Sun Company, without
objection, October 23, 1865, and May 5, 1866." These losses
were paid on the two insurances effected contemporaneously
with that sued on in this proceeding, in which the voyage
described was, "at and from New York to, at, and from San
Francisco and (to) Callao to Chinchas." But, at most, this
only gives rise to an inference that these two insurances were
intended to cover some charter, other than the one from New
York to San Francisco, and, indeed, is not conclusive as to
that. It certainly does not establish, even in respect to them,
that they were understood, at the time the insurances were
effected, to cover a risk upon an interest in the Rotterdam
charter, or any charter in force during the voyage from New

SUN MUTUAL INS. Co. v. OCEAN INS. Co.

[Sup.

at.

York to San Francisco; much less, can it be said, that any
-admission can be implied, from such payment, that the risk,
described as upon ship and charter during the extended voyage
to Callao and the Chinchas, although described as commencing
at New York, was identical, so far as the charter was concerned, with that in the policy sued on, in which the voyage
is described as from New York to San Francisco. In any
aspect, the circumstance relied on is merely argumentative.
The Sun Company may have made the payment inadvertently,
without consideration of its strict rights. It certainly is not
conclusive as an admission of liability in this case, for it has
no element of estoppel, and to justify the conclusion of law
sought to be drawn from it would be to give it that effect.
The fact that The Sun Company participated in the defence
of The Ocean Company in the action brought by Melcher, and
the communications between the companies in respect to it, so
far as they are set out in the findings of fact, are, in our
opinion, equally without effect, and do not amount either to
an admission of liability or to an agreement to be bound by
the result of that litigation; and having carefully considered
all the circumstances found and relied on, without further
special mention of them, we are constrained to say that they
do not, either singly or together, sustain the conclusion that
"The Sun Company's policy covers the Rotterdam charter."
This conclusion is, in our opinion, greatly strengthened by
the consideration of other facts set out in the finding, which,
while they tend to show that as a matter of fact The Sun
Company did not intend to reinsure Melcher's interest in the
Rotterdam charter, furnish also a distinct ground of defence,
as matter of law, if the fact had been otherwise, and negative
the second conclusion of law announced by the Circuit Court,
that "the policy is not void because of any concealment by
The Ocean Company."
The situation was this: There were two concurrent charters
on the ship, both which were treated as in force during the
one voyage from New York to San Francisco, in the course of
which she was lost. The first charter covered a full cargo,
and no additional freight could be simultaneously earned under
the second, for no part of the cargo contemplated by it could

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. V. OCBAN INS. CO.

509

be on board till after the voyage under the first charter had
been completed. In case of loss during that voyage, consequently, there could be no salvage of freight applicable to the
second charter. Melcher was master and owner of one-eighth
of the ship. On March 20, 1864, he instructed his agent,
Sawyer, by letter shown to The Ocean Company, to effect
insurance on his behalf against war risk on ship, and generally on his interest in both charters specifically, besides primage, and on his personal effects, amounting in all to $19,425,
and in the same letter said: "I think you had better put
$5,000 or ,6,000 more marine risk in case I should lose the
ship." The Ocean Company accepted the risk on the Rotterdam charter, priniage, and personal effects to San Francisco,
and on the same day insured the master for $3,000 on his
interest in the ship during the whole of her voyage, describing
the duration and locality of the risk as "at and from New
York to, at, and from San Francisco and Chinchas, with usual
liberties at Callao, to her port of advice and discharge in
Europe." This latter insurance was not made known to The
Sun Company, nor was it informed of any of the communications that bad taken place between The Ocean Company and
Melcber, including the contents of the letter to Sawyer.
It thus appears that at the time of the loss Melcher had insurance on two concurrent charters and his primage thereon
during one voyage, being insured, besides his interest in the
ship, on double the amount of its possible earnings of freight
for one voyage. This fact was known to The Ocean Company at the time, and was not communicated by it to The
Sun Company, which was without other knowledge upon the
subject, and executed its policy to The Ocean Company in
ignorance of it.
That knowledge of the circumstance was material and important to the underwriter as likely to influence his judgment
in accepting the risk, we think, is so manifest to common reason
as to need no proof of usage or opinion among those engaged
in the business. It was a flagrant case of over-insurance upon
its face, and made it the pecuniary interest of the master in
charge of the ship to forego and neglect the duty which he
owed to all interested in her safety. Had it been known, it is

510

SU- MUTTUAL INs. Co. v. OCEAN INS. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

reasonable to believe that a prudent underwriter would not
have accepted the proposal as made, and, where the fact of the
contract is in dispute, as here, corroborates the denial of the
appellants. The concealment, whether intentional or inadvertent, we have no hesitation in saying, avoids the policy, if
actually intended to cover the risk for which the claim is
made.
In respect to the duty of disclosing all material facts, the
case of reinsurance does not differ from that of an original
insurance. The obligation in both cases is one uberrimce fidei.
The duty of communication, indeed, is independent of the intention, and is violated by the fact of concealment even where
there is no design to deceive. The exaction of information in
some instances may be greater in a case of reinsurance than as
between the parties to an original insurance. In the former, the
party seeking to shift the risk he has taken is bound to communicate his knowledge of the character of the original insured,
where such information would be likely to influence the judgment of an underwriter; while in the latter the party, in the
language of Bronson, J., in the case of the New York JBowery.
Fire Ins. Co. v. New York Fire Ins. Co., 17 Wend. (N. Y.) 359,
867, is "not bound nor could it be expected, that he should
speak evil of himself."
Mr. Duer (Lect. 13, pt. 1, sect. 13; 2 Ins. 398) states as a
part of the rule the following proposition: "SECT. 13. The assured will not be allowed to protect himself
against the charge of an undue concealment by evidence that he
had disclosed to the underwriters, in generaZ terms, the information
that he possessed. Where his own information is specific, it must
be communicated in the terms in which it was received. General
terms may include the truth, but may fail to convey it with its
proper force and in all its extent. Nor will the assured be permitted to urge, as an excuse for his omission to communicate
material facts, that they were actually known to the underwriters,
unless it appears that their knowledge was as particular and full
as his own information. It is the duty of the assured to place the
underwriter in the same situation as himself; to give to him the same
means and opportunity of judging of the value of the risks; and
when any circumstance is withheld, however slight and immaterial

Oct. 1882.]

SUN MUTUAL INS. CO. V. OCEAN INS. CO.

511

it may have seemed to himself, that, if disclosed, would probably
have influenced the terms of the insurance, the concealment vitiates
the policy."
This statement is sustained by the authorities cited, - Bly
v. Hallett, 2 Caines (N. Y.), 57 ; Moses v. Delaware Ins. Co.,
1 Wash. 885, - and, in our opinion, is a necessary deduction
from the nature and spirit of the contract of insurance. It
applies with peculiar force in the present case, as every sentence of the rule is a condemnation of The Ocean Insurance
Company in imposing upon the appellant the whole risk of the
insurance, without communicating its knowledge of the circumstances, which might have made the latter as unwilling to
assume it as they seem to have made the former unwilling
to retain even a share of it.
For these reasons, and without passing upon other questions
discussed, the decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and
the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree dismissing
the libel; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom concurred MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE WAITE and MR.JUSTICE BRADLEY, dissenting.
I do not concur in the opinion of the court. It proceeds, as
I think, upon an erroneous view of the principles of reinsurance, and places the reinsurer in the exact condition of a joint
insurer, or of an original insurer of the risk of the party first
insured.
In point of fact, The Sun Company insured The Ocean Company against the risk which the latter had incurred by its
policies, and unless there was misrepresentation, fraud, or intentional concealment by The Ocean Company, The Sun Company should pay the loss which the other sustained, and against
the hazard of which it agreed to insure The Ocean Company.
The long course of dealing between the two companies
showed that The Sun Company was in the habit of reinsuring
for The Ocean Company without inquiry into the particulars
of the risk, and in this case there was no reason for any special
communication of the circumstances of the risk by The Ocean
to The Sun Company.

