CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

[Sup. Ct.

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY or DOUGLAS.
A. conveyed, March 5, 1859, to a county in Nebraska certain lands for a "poorfarm," and they were thereafter used as such. The county, pursuant to its
agreement, made one cash payment, and for the remainder of the stipulated
consideration gave its notes secured by mortgage, and payable respectively
in one, two, three, and four years. A. assigned the notes to B. Some time
thereafter, the Supreme Court of the State decided that, by the purchase of
lands for such a purpose, a county could not be bound to pay at any specified time the purchase-money, or to secure it by mortgage upon them, but was
limited to a payment in cash and to the levy of an annual tax to create a
fund wherewith to pay the residue. A. and B., the notes remaining unpaid,
praying for a reconveyance and an accounting, or,
filed, Sept. 10, 1877, a bill
should the county elect to retain the lands, then for a decree for the value of
them. Held, 1. That in view of that decision, the contract being unauthorized only so far as it relates to the time and mode of paying the purchasemoney, and the title to the lands having passed by the conveyance, the county
holds that title as a trustee for the benefit of B., and that he is entitled to the
relief prayed for. 2. That unless the sum due on account of the purchasemoney, after a proper allowance shall be made as a compensation for a failure of A.'s title to a small part of the lands, be paid within a reasonable time,
to be fixed by the court below, having reference to the necessity of raising
the same by taxation, as prescribed and limited by the statute, the county be
required to execute and deliver a deed, releasing to A. all the title acquired
under his deed, and that he convey the same to B. 3. That the suit is not
barred by the Statute of Limitations.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Nebraska.
This is a bill in equity filed Sept. 10, 1877, by Chapman, a
citizen of Tennessee, and the representatives of Charles A. Ely,
deceased, citizens of Ohio, against the county of Douglas, a
municipal corporation of Nebraska.
The object of the bill is declared to be, and the prayer corresponds to it, to compel the county to surrender possession
of two certain tracts of land therein described, one of one
hundred and sixty acres and one of ten acres; and to reconvey and release the title thereto, -which the county acquired
under a deed made by Chapman to the county on March 5,
1859; and for an account of the rents and profits thereof; or,
"in case said county of Douglas and the corporate authorities
thereof shall elect and request to be allowed to retain and hold
the land described, then and in that case to compel said county
and the corporate authorities thereof to pay to or for your ora-

Oct. 1882.]

CHAPMAN v. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

tors, as the court shall direct, the reasonable price and value
of said land, as stated in said deed of conveyance, with lawful
interest thereon from the date of said deed to the time of the
making of such payment."
It appears that on March 4, 1859, an agreement under seal
was entered into between Chapman of the first part and the
county of Douglas, the latter acting by the county commissioners, of the second part, whereby he agreed to sell and convey the premises in controversy "on the following conditions,
to wit: That the party of the second part shall pay to the
party of the first part, at the ensealing and delivery of a warrantee conveyance from the party of the first part to the party
of the second part of the real estate aforesaid, two thousand
dollars (,$2,000) in county orders of the county of Douglas
aforesaid on the treasurer of said county of Douglas, and the balance of six thousand (6,000) dollars in four equal annual payments, together with interest on the amount due at ten (10)
per cent per annum until paid; and the said party of the first
part will, when required, resign to and give up the possession of
said property to the party of the second part, or its assigns or
agents, immediately on the payment of the first payment hereinbefore enumerated, and put the said county of Douglas or
its agents in full and peaceable possession of said described
property. And the said party of the second part agrees to
purchase said property on the terms aforesaid of and from the
party of the first part, and for the security of the deferred payments, as hereinbefore set forth, to give a mortgage upon said
described property to the party of the first part."
On the next day, in pursuance of this agreement, Chapman
and wife executed and delivered to the county commissioners a
deed to the county of Douglas for the land, which was accepted
and placed by them on record. The first instalment of the
purchase-money, $2,000 in county orders, was paid at that time,
when, also, the county commissioners, in the name of the
county, executed and delivered to him the four promissory
notes required by the agreement, payable in one, two, three,
and four years from that date respectively, and a mortgage, in
the usual forii of a conveyance in fee, with a defeasance, to
secure the payment of the same, which was accepted and
recorded.

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

[Sup. t

The property was purchased for the use of the county for a
poor-house and farm. Possession of it was taken immediately
by the county authorities, and it has been improved and used
for that purpose continuously ever since. The title of Chapman as to the one hundred and sixty acre tract was perfect,
but as to the ten acre tract has failed.
On Nov. 26, 1860, the notes and mortgage were assigned, for
value, to Charles A. Ely, who having since deceased, his rights
have devolved upon his legal representatives. On June 18,
1868, William A. Ely, a minor and the devisee of Charles A.
Ely, by his next friend and guardian, commenced a suit in the
District Court for Douglas County for the foreclosure of the
mortgage, to which a demurrer was interposed, on the ground
that the notes and mortgage were void, ab initio, for want of
power on the part of the county to make them, and also because any action on them was barred by the Statute of Limitations. This "demurrer having been sustained, the plaintiff
dismissed the action on July 21, 1868, without prejudice. On
Aug. 8, 1868, a similar suit, by bill in equity, was begun in
the Circuit Court of the United States, which, on November
19, in the same year, was dismissed without prejudice; and,
on March 15, 1869, a similar bill was filed in the same court,
to which the same defences, as above stated, were raised upon
a demurrer, which was sustained, and on Dec. 30, 1872, the bill
was dismissed without prejudice.
the answer to the present bill admits that no part of the
$5,000 of the original purchase-money has been paid, and that
the rents, issues, and profits of the premises, since the county
has been in possession of them, exceed the amount of the first
instalment which was paid, and sets up the same defences as
before, that the mortgage and notes are void for want of power
on the part of the county to make them, and that any action
accruing to the complainants is barred by lapse of time and
the Statute of Limitations. It also admits "that both the said
commissioners and the said Chapman believed that the said
county had full power and authority to purchase said lands
and execute the said notes and mortgage for the unpaid part
of the purchase price, and that all the actings and doings of
the said parties in that behalf were had, made, and done in

Oct. 1882.]

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

perfect good faith aud for good and sufficient considerations,
in all things conformable to equity and good conscience, save
as is hereinafter stated." This saving is that "the sum paid
by this defendant for said lands, to wit, $2,000, was the full,
fair value thereof at the time of the said purchase and sale,
and the amount of the said notes and mortgage was just so
much in excess of the true value thereof. This defendant is
informed and believes, and now here charges, that the said
notes and mortgage were made between the said Chapman and
the said commissioners, acting in the name of said county,
with the full knowledge on the part of all of them that the
full and fair value of the premises had been already paid therefor by the said county, and that the agreement to give the sdid
notes and mortgage was unjust and oppressive toward the said
county, and that, in fact, they were without consideration, and
that the giving thereof was induced by some secret and fraudulent agreement or understanding between the said commissioners, or some of them, on the one side, and the said Chapman on
the other." It also admits that during the delay of the complainants in bringing their suit "the evidences of the fraudulent,
corrupt, oppressive, and unjust contract of purchase have disappeared." No evidence in support of the alleged fraud is, therefore, offered, and the defendant is constrained to rely upon the
Statute of Limitations, if any cause of action ever existed. In
reference to the allegation of the oppressive amount of the
price agreed to be paid, in addition to the fact admitted in the
answer, that the rents and profits accrued to the county since
it has been in possession amounted in value to more than the
payment made, it is also urged in argument by its counsel
against a rescission of the contract, that "there has been such
a change of circumstances that that mode of relief would be
most oppressive. This land, purchased when the county was
very sparsely settled, and situated very near to a town which
has recently grown to great importance, must have greatly appreciated in value. Besides which fact, there is the further
one already adverted to, that the county has improved it to the
extent of thirty thousand dollars." It is, therefore, insisted
that the county should be permitted to retain the land without
paying for it.

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

[Sup. Cb.

On final hearing the bill was dismissed, and the decree, to
that effect, is brought here for review by this appeal.
Hfr. Charles C. Bonney and Hr. George Willey for the
appellants.
Mr. John C. Cowin and Hr. James H. Woolworth for the
appellee.
MR.JUSTICE MATTHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court,

and, after stating the case as above, proceeded as follows: The statute in force at the date of the transaction in question, conferring power on the county commissioners over the
subject, provides, "That the county commissioners in each
county are authorized, whenever they see fit to do so, to establish a poor-house ;" and that "they may take to the county,
by grant, devise, or purchase, any tract of land, not exceeding
six hundred and forty acres, for the purposes of said poorhouse." Sect. 17 and 18, Rev. Stat. Neb., c. 40. Sect. 19
of the same chapter declares that "said commissioners are
hereby empowered to receive donations to aid in the establishment of such poor-house; and also empowered, from time to
time, as they shall see fit, to levy and collect a tax, not exceeding one per cent, on the taxable property in the county, and to
appropriate the same to the purchase of land, not exceeding
the aforesaid six hundred and forty acres; and to erect and
furnish buildings suitable for a poor-house, and to put into
operation and to defray the actual expenses of said poor-house,
should the labor of the inmates be inadequate thereto." By
sect. 23 of the same act the commissioners are authorized, if
they deem it to be for the interest of the county, to appropriate out of any other money belonging to the county any sum
not exceeding $2,500 for the purpose of purchasing a farm and
erecting thereon suitable buildings, as contemplated in the
sections before referred to.
These provisions of the statute were construed by the Supreme Court of the State in Stewart v. Otoe County, 2 Neb.
177. It does not appear from the report when the decision
was made, but as The case arose upon a contract dated in January, 1870, it must, of course, have been long after the making
of the contract, which is the foundation of the present litiga-

Oct. 1882.]

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

tion. It was rendered in an action brought upon a similar
contract to recover against Otoe County damages for its refusal
to accept a deed and execute the note and mortgage contemplated. A judgment sustaining a general demurrer to the
petition was affirmed, on the ground that the contract was
illegal and void. The court said: "There is no authority of
law for the county commissioners to bind the county in the
manner contemplated. They cannot give a promissory note,
nor can they mortgage the property of the county. Should
they formally do so, their action would be a nullity. In the
purchase of land for a poor-farm, the authority of the commissioners of a county is very clearly set forth. The mode of raising the money, and paying it over, are all definitely stated.
These statutes set a limit beyond which they cannot go. They
are a guide, not only to the commissioners, but equally so to
all persons dealing with them, who must see to it that their
contracts are within the boundaries thus described. .. . Here
we find the authority, and indeed the only authority, for the
purchase and payment of money for a "poor-farm" by the
county commissioners; and here, too, are specially designated
the money that may be used for that purpose, together with
the mode of raising it. But there is not one word about mortgaging the property of the county to secure the payment of
the purchase-money at a given time. The statutes provide the
only security that can be given. The public faith is pledged;
and a tax, not exceeding one per cent, may be levied upon all
the taxable property of the county annually, and, when collected, paid to the person entitled thereto by an order upon
the treasurer of the county, payable out of that special fund."
This decision has been accepted by all parties to this suit,
and we are not asked to consider any question as to its correctness, or as to our obligation to adopt it. We, therefore, assume it to be the law of Nebraska, applicable to the case, and
the basis of further inquiry as to the relative rights of the parties to this litigation. It expressly declares that the county
commissioners had power to purchase a poor-farm, but that the
power does not extend to an agreement to pay at a definite
time, or to give as security for payment a lien upon the land.
The vendor must either receive the purchase-money on delivery
VOL. xv1i.

23

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

[Sup. Ot.

of the deed, or wait for its payment in the due course of administration, by the appropriation of the taxes levied, collected,
and paid into the treasury applicable to that purpose.
If, in the present case, such bad been the original understanding between the parties, and the deed had been delivered
without payment, but upon orders drawn upon the county
treasurer payable according to law, the vendor would have
been obliged to wait during the reasonable delays of administration. "Whoever," said that court, in Brewer v. Otoe
County, 1 Neb. 373, "deals with a county and takes in payment of his demand a warrant of the character of these, no
time of payment being fixed, does so under an implied agreement that if there be no funds in the treasury out of which it
can be satisfied, he will wait until the money can be raised in
the ordinary mode of collecting such revenues. He is presumed
to act with reference to the actual condition and the laws regulating and controlling the business of the county. He cannot
be permitted, immediately upon the receipt of such, warrant,
to resort to the courts to enforce payment by judgment and
execution, without regard to the condition of the treasury at
the time, or the laws by which the revenues are raised and
disbursed."
Accordingly, in that case, it was decided that the Statute of
Limitations did not apply to cases of such claims against counties. The court, on that point, said: "But these warrants do
not, nor was it the intention of the legislature that they should,
fall within the operation of this act. . . .Nor can any action
rightfully be brought on such warrant until the fund is raised,
or at least sufficient time has elapsed to enable the county to
levy and collect it in the mode prescribed in the revenue laws.
That the legislature never intended that county warrants
should be affected by the limitation act before referred to, is
evident, I think, from the whole course of legislation respecting them. As late as the 12th of February, 1866, it was
enacted that ' all debts heretofore incurred by the county commissioners of any county, acting in good faith, and duly recorded at the time on their books, shall be deemed valid and
the county shall be held liable for the same.' Chap. 5, sect. 1,
Rev. Stat. . . .From these, as well as numerous other enact-

Oct. 1882.]

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

ments of the legislature that might be cited, I have reached
the conclusion that the plea of the Statute of Limitations
cannot be successfully made against these warrants, and that
whenever it can be shown that the funds have been collected
out of which they can be paid, or sufficient time has been
given to do so in the mode pointed out in the statute, their
payment may be demanded, and if refused, legally coerced."
And if, in such cases, a proceeding in mandamus should be
considered to be the more appropriate, and, perhaps, the only
effective remedy, it also is not embraced in the Statute of Limitations prescribed generally for civil actions. The writ may
well be refused when the relator has slept upon his rights for
an unreasonable time, and especially if the delay has been
prejudicial to the defendant, or to the rights of other persons,
though what laches, in the assertion of a clear legal right,
would be sufficient to justify a refusal of the remedy by mandamus must depend, in a great measure, on the character and
circumstances of the particular case. Ohinn v. Trustees, 82
Ohio St. 236; Moses on Mandamus, 190. There is no statute
of limitations in Nebraska applicable to that proceeding.
In the present case, however, it was not the understanding
of the parties that the vendor should await the collection of
taxes, as prescribed by the statute, for the payment of the
purchase-money, but, on the contrary, there was an agreement
for payment in a definite time, without regard to the condition of the county treasury, and for security by way of notes
and mortgages. The agreement, as we have assumed, so far
as it relates to the time and mode of payment, is void; but the
contract for the sale itself has been executed on the part of
the vendor by the delivery of the deed, and his title at law has
actually passed to the county. As the agreement between the
parties has failed by reason of the legal disability of the county
to perform its part, according to its conditions, the right of the
vendor to rescind the contract and to a restitution of his title
would seem to be as clear as it would be just, unless some
valid reason to the contrary can be shown. As was said by
this court in Hliarshv. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676, 684, and
repeated in Louisiana v. Wood, 102 U. S. 294, "the obligation to do justice rests upon all persons, natural and artifi-

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

[Sup. Ct.

cial, and if a county obtains the money or property of others

without authority, the law, independent of any statute, will
compel restitution or compensation." See also .Miltenberger
v. Cooke, 18 Wall. 421. The illegality in the contract related,
not to its substance, but only to a specific mode of performance,
and does not bring it within that class mentioned by Mr. Justice Bradley in Thomas v. City of Richmond, 12 id. 349. The
purchase itself, as we have seen, was expressly authorized.
The agreement for definite times of payment and for security
alone was not authorized. It was not illegal in the sense of
being prohibited as an offence; the power in that form was
simply withheld. The policy of the law extends no further
than merely to defeat what it does not permit, and imposes
upon the parties no penalty. It thus falls within the rule, as
stated by Mr. Pollock, in his Principles of Contract, 264:
"When no penalty is imposed, and the intention of the legislature appears to be simply that the agreement is not to be enforced, then neither the agreement itself nor the performance
of it is to be treated as unlawful for any other purpose."
Johnson v. Mlteeker, 1 Wis. 436.
The principle was applied in the case of Jforville v. American Tract Society, 123 Mass. 129, 137, where it was said:
"The money of the plaintiff was taken and is still held by the
defendant under an agrefment which it is contended it had no
power to make, and which, if it had power to make, it has
wholly failed on its part to perform. It was money of the
plaintiff, now in the possession of the defendant, which in
equity and good conscience it ought now to pay over, and
which may be recovered in an action for money had and received. The illegality is not that which arises where the contract is in violation of public policy or of sound morals, and
under which the law will give no aid to either party. The
plaintiff himself is chargeable with no illegal act, and the corporation is the only one at fault in exceeding its corporate
powers by making the express contract. The plaintiff is not
seeking to enforce that contract, but only to recover his own
money and prevent the defendant from unjustly retaining the
benefit of its own illegal act. He is doing nothing which
must be regarded as a necessary affirmance of an illegal act."

Oct. 1882.]

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

The decision of this court in Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96 U. S.
341, 350, covers the very point. There a recovery was allowed
for the value of the benefit conferred upon the' municipal corporation, notwithstanding, and, indeed, for the reason, that the
contract to pay in bonds was held to be illegal and void. "It
matters not," said the court, " that the promise was to pay
in a manner not authorized by law. If payments cannot be
made in bonds, because their issue is ultra vires, it would
be sanctioning rank injustice to hold that payment need not
be made at all. Such is not the law."
This doctrine was fully recognized by the Supreme Court of
Nebraska as the law of that State in the case of Clark v. Saline
County, 9 Neb. 516, in which it adopts, from the decision of
the Supreme Court of California in Pimental v. City of San
Francisco, 21 Cal. 362, the following language: "The city is
not exempted from the common obligation to do justice which
binds individuals. Such obligations rest upon all persons,
whether natural or artificial. If the city obtain the money of
another by mistake, or without authority of law, it is her duty
to refund it, from this general obligation. If she obtain other
property which does not belong to her it is her duty to restore
it, or if used to render an equivalent therefor, from the like
obligation. Argenti v. San Francisco, 16 Cal. 282. The legal
liability springs from the moral duty to make restitution."
The conveyance by Chapman to the county of Douglas
passed the legal title, but upon a condition in the contract which
it was impossible in law for the county to perform. There
resulted, therefore, to the grantor the right to rescind the
agreement upon which the deed was made, and thus to convert
the county into a trustee, by construction of law, of the title
for his benefit, according to the often repeated rule, as stated
by Hill on Trustees, 144, that "whenever the circumstances of
a transaction are such that the person who takes the legal estate
in property cannot also enjoy the beneficial interest, without
necessarily violating some established principle of equity, the
court will immediately raise a constructive trust and fasten it
upon the conscience of the legal owner, so as to convert him
into a trustee for the parties who, in equity, are entitled to the
beneficial enjoyment." Upon this principle the vendor of real

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

[Sup. Ct.

estate is treated as trustee of the title for the purchaser; and
the mortgagee, having the legal title, after payment of the
mortgage debt, is a trustee for the mortgagor. The analogy is
complete between these and every case, of which the present
is one, where the holder of the legal title is under a duty to
convey to another.
But, admitting that Chapman was entitle'd to call for a reconveyance, it is alleged that the Statute of Limitations of
Nebraska, which bars the right to recover the title to real
estate in ten years from the time it first accrued, defeats the
recovery.
The Statute of Limitations in force on March 5, 1859, which
was the date of the deed, prescribed twenty-one years after the
cause of action shall have accrued as the period within which
an action for the recovery of the title to lands must be brought.
Rev. Stat. Neb. 1866, p. 395, sect. 6.
On Feb. 12, 1869, the legislature of Nebraska passed an act,
which took effect July 1, 1869, which amended this section so
as to reduce the limitation to ten years. It is not denied that
if Chapman's cause of action first accrued to him on March 5,
1859, this amendment could not operate upon it, because to
give it that effect would be to take away an existing right of
action by mere legislation, as the ten years would then have
fully expired. It is, therefore, claimed that his right of action
for a reconveyance of the title could only have first accrued
when the first instalment of the purchase-money became due,
that is, on March 5, 1860, which left eight months after the
statute took effect before the ten years' limitation would expire, which, it is claimed, would be a reasonable time within
which to require that suits upon existing causes of action
should be brought. But this view cannot be supported; for
the original contract for payment, at a fixed timge, is rendered
invalid, for the, same reason that avoided the notes and mortgage, the objection being, according to the decision of the
Supreme Court of Nebraska, that the county had no power to
bind itself to pay, in any other manner than that prescribed
by the statute. Hence, it must be held, in this aspect of the
case, that the right of action was not postponed, after the date
of the deed, by the credit given, and if it accrued at that time,

Oct. 1882.]

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

the limitation was twenty-one years, according to the statute
then in force, within which the present suit was in fact
brought.
But the more satisfactory answer to this defence is, that
none of the statutes of limitation referred to apply to the case
at all. We have already seen that by the decision in Brewer
v. Otoe County, 1 Neb. 373, it is the declared law of Nebraska
that the claim against the county for the purchase-money, on
the supposition that the understanding had been to accept
payment according to the terms of the statute, was not liable
to the bar of the limitation acts. So that the obligation of the
county to pay would not be extinguished by the statutory
lapse of time. Now, although the right of Chapman to rescind
the contract and demand a reconveyance accrued at the very
date of the deed, he was not bound to exercise the right, and
his cause of action did not accrue, until he had made manifest
his election. He had the right to treat as null that part of
the contract which was illegal, and having executed it on his
part, to waive performance according to its terms, on the part
of the county, and wait a reasonable length of time for the
county to make the payment in the mode made lawful by the
statute, before exerting his power to rescind the contract.
Until that time had elapsed, and until, after that, Chapman
had elected to rescind, there was no existing cause of action,
and consequently nothing upon which the Statute of Limitations could begin to take effect. When that reasonable time
expired we have no means of determining. It would depend
upon circumstances not disclosed in the record, such as the
state of the county treasury, the extent of its other obligations,
the value of the taxable property, and its general financial
condition. There is nothing whatever to show that the delay
that has taken place in filing the present bill has been unreasonable. It is impossible, therefore, to say that any statute of
limitations has even begun to run against the cause of action,
much less that its bar has become complete.
Therd is nothing, therefore, to prevent the relief prayed for
being granted, if it can be done without injustice to the defendant. On this point, it is said, it would be inequitable to
decree a rescission of the contract and a restoration of the title

.860

CHAPMAN V. COUNTY OF DOUGLAS.

[Sup. Ct.

to and possession of the property, because the parties cannot
be placed in statu quo; that the circumstances have greatly
changed by the increase in the value of the property and the
expensive improvements that have been put upon it by the
county. If the relief asked and expected was an unconditional
reconveyance of the title and surrender of possession, this
would undoubtedly be true. But such is not the case. Any
such injurious and inequitable results as are deprecated may
easily be averted by the simple payment of the amount due
on account of the purchase-money, which the appellants consent to receive, which is within the statutory powers of the
county, and for which proper provision may be made in the
decree.
The principles on which we proceed to establish the right of
the appellants to the relief prayed for were announced and
acted upon by this court in Parkersburgv. Brown, in which it
was also held that the equity of the original grantor of the
property sought to be reclaimed passed by an assignment of
the void securities. 106 U. S. 487. This settles the relative
rights of Chapman and his co-complainants, the representatives
of Ely, and entitles the latter, in the name of the former, to
the relief prayed for in the bill.
And, conversely, the right of the county, represented by its
taxpayers, to require a rescission of such a contract, on condition of a surrender of the void securities on the part of the
vendor, and a reconveyance of the title in consideration of
which they were issued, was recognized by this court in
Crampton v. Zabriskie, 101 U. S. 601.
In not granting this relief the Circuit Court erred, and its
decree must be reversed, with directions to ascertain the
amount due from the county of Douglas on account of the purchase-money of the poor-farm, making any proper allowance as
a compensation for the failure of the title to the ten-acre tract,
and thereupon to render a decree, unless the amount so found
due be paid within a reasonable time, to be fixed by the
court, having reference to the necessity of raising the same by
taxation, as regulated by the statute, that the county of Douglas be required by its commissioners to execute and deliver a
deed, releasing to Chapman all the title acquired by it by

Oct. 1882.]

JAFFRAY V. McGCEHEE.

virtue of the deed from him of March 5, 1859, to be conveyed
by Chapman to William A. Ely, his co-complainant, and sole
representative of Charles A. Ely, upon such terms as the equities of the case may require. It is
So ordered.

JAFFRAY v.

McGEmEE.

1. The statute of Arkansas prescribing the manner in which property assigned
for the benefit of creditors shall be sold is mandatory.
2. An assignment made in the State is void if it vests in the assignee a discretion in conflict with the provisions of that statute, and authorizes him in
effect to sell such property in a manner which they do not permit.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The statutes of Arkansas contain the following provisions :"SECT. 385. In all cases in which any person shall make an assignment of any property, whether real, personal, or choses in
action, for the payment of debts, before the assignee thereof shall
be entitled to take possession, sell, or in any way manage or control any property so assigned, he shall be required to file in the
office of the clerk of the court exercising probate jurisdiction, a full
and complete inventory and description of such property; and also
make and execute a bond to the State of Arkansas in double the
estimated value of the property in said assignment, with good and
sufficient security, to be approved by the judge of said court, conditioned that such assignee shall execute the trust confided to him,
sell the property to the best advantage, and pay the proceeds
thereof to the creditors mentioned in said assignment, according to
the terms thereof, and faithfully perform the duties according to
law."
"SECT. 387. Said assignee shall be required to sell all the property assigned to him for the payment of debts, at public auction,
within one hundred and twenty days after the execution of the
bond required by this act, and Bhall give at least thirty days' notice
of the time and place of such sale. And any person damaged by
the neglect, waste, or improper conduct of such assignee, shall be

