Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

the rights of free commerce against exactions of that kind. It
is, I think, their duty to adjudge all such local regulations to
be in conflict with the supreme law of the land. To burden
the exercise of a constitutional right with conditions which
materially impair its value, or which, practically, compel the
abandonment of the light rather than to submit to the conditions, is, in law, an infringement of that right. The opinion
of the court, I repeat, rests necessarily upon the ground that
the enforced exaction and collection by a municipal corporation
of unreasonable compensation for the use of its wharf by a boat,
duly enrolled and licensed under the laws of the United States,
and engaged in commerce upon the Ohio River, do not infringe or impair any right given or secured either by the Constitution or the existing laws of the United States. To that
proposition I am unable to give my assent.
For the reasons stated, I dissent from the opinion and judgment.

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.
ELLIOTT V. WILTZ.
1. By force of the act of the legislature of Louisiana, known as Act No. 3 of
1874, and the constitutional amendment adopted in that year, which provided that bonds should be issued under that act in exchange for valid
outstanding bonds and warrants at the rate of sixty cents in the new
bonds for one dollar of the old bonds and warrants, the State entered into
a formal contract, the obligation of which it was forbidden by the Constitution of the United States to impair, and thereby stipulated with each
holder of the new bonds so issued that an annual tax of five and one-half
mills on the dollar of the assessed value of all the real and personal property in the State should be levied and collected, and the income therefrom applied solely to the payment of the bonds and coupons; that the tax
levied by the act and confirmed by the Constitution should be a continuing annual tax until the bonds, principal and interest, were paid in full;
that the appropriation of the revenue derived therefrom should be a continuing annual appropriation; and that no further authority than that
contained in the act should be required to enable the taxing officers to
levy and collect the tax, or the disbursing officers to pay out the money
as collected in discharge of the coupons and bonds.
2. After the said act of 1874 was passed, and the constitutional amendment sanctioning it was adopted, sundry parties, citizens of another State, exchanged

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup.at

their old bonds for new coupon bonds executed pursuant to the requirements of that act, and demanded of the proper State officers payment of
the coupons which fell due Jan. 1, 1880, and the application thereto of the
funds collected under the levy imposed by the act. Payment was refused
solely on the ground that it was forbidden by the third article of the State
Debt Ordinance of the-new Constitution adopted July 23, 1879, post, p. 715;
and the treasurer claimed to hold the funds only for the purposes for which
they were appropriated by the terms of that Constitution. The parties
then brought in the State court of Louisiana a suit for a mandamus against
the auditor and treasurer of state and the other members of the board
of liquidation, requiring them to apply the funds in the treasury derived
from the taxes levied or to be levied to the retirement of the bonds, and
to execute the said act according to its intent and purpose. They also
brought in the Circuit Court against the same defendants a suit praying
for an injunction forbidding them to recognize as valid said ordinance,
and to oppose the full execution of said act and the constitutional amendment. The suit for mandamus was removed to the Circuit Court. Rdd,
1. That the ordinance forbade the payment of the interest due January,
1880, and withdrew from the officers of the State the means of carrying her contract into effect. 2. That the execution of the contract cannot be enforced, nor the relief sought be awarded, in a suit to which
she is not a party, but which is brought against officers, who are merely
obeying the positive orders of the supreme political power of the State.
3. That at the time the bonds were issued or since no statute or judicial
decision authorized a suit against Louisiana in her own courts, nor can
she be sued in the courts of the United States by a citizen of another
State. 4. That the money in her treasury is her property, held by her
officers, not in trust for her creditors nor as their agents, but as her servants, and that the courts cannot control them in the administration of
her finances, and thus oust the jurisdiction of the political power of the
State.

THE first case is in error to the Circuit Court of the United

States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and the second is
an appeal from that court.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Wheeler 1. Peckham and Hr. George S. Lacey for the
plaintiff in error and the appellant.
Mr. John A. Campbell, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The legislature of Louisiana, at its session of 1874, by an
act known as Act No. 3 of 1874, provided for an issue of
bonds, to be designated as consolidated bonds of the State, for
the purpose of consolidating and reducing the floating and

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

bonded debt. The bonds were to be payable to the bearer
forty years from Jan. 1, 1874, and to bear interest at the rate of
seven per cent per annum, payable on the first day of July and
the first day of January in each year. The amount was not to
exceed in the aggregate fifteen million dollars. The governor, lieutenant-governor, auditor, treasurer, secretary of state,
speaker of the House of Representatives, and a person to be
elected by these officers as a fiscal agent of the State, were created a board of liquidation, with power to issue the bonds and
exchange them for all valid outstanding bonds and certain valid
warrants on the treasury, at the rate of sixty cents in the new
bonds for one dollar of old bonds and warrants. The bonds
were to be signed by the governor, auditor, and secretary of
state, and the coupons by the auditor and treasurer.
Section 7 of the act is as follows: "That a tax of five and a half mills on the dollar of the assessed
value of all real and personal property in the State is hereby annually
levied, and shall be collected for the purpose of paying the interest
and principal of the consolidated bonds herein authorized, and the
revenue derived therefrom is hereby set apart and appropriated to
that purpose, and no other. And that it shall be deemed a felony
for the fiscal agent or any officer of the State or board of liquidators to divert the said fund from its legitimate channel as provided, and upon conviction the said party shall be liable to
imprisonment for not more than ten years nor less than two, at the
discretion of the court. If there shall, during any year, be a surplus arising fiom said tax after paying all interest falling due in
that year, such surplus shall be used for the purchase and retirement
of bonds authorized by this act, said purchases to be made by the
said board of liquidation, from the lowest offers, after due notice:
Provided,that the total tax for interest and all other State purposes,
except the support of public schools, shall never hereafter exceed
twelve and a half mills on the dollar. The interest tax aforesaid
shall be a continuing annual tax until the said consolidated bonds
shall be paid or redeemed, principal and interest; and the said appropriation shall be a continuing annual appropriation during the
same period, and this levy and appropriation shall authorize and
make it the duty of the auditor and treasurer, and the said board,
respectively, to collect said tax annually, and pay said interest and
redeem said bonds until the same shall be fully discharged."

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ot.

By'other sections it -was provided that any judge, tax-collector, or any other officer of the State obstructing the execution of the act, or any part of it, or failing to perform his
official duty, should be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
on conviction thereof punished; that each provision of the act
should be, and was declared to be, a contract between the
State of Louisiana and each and every holder of such consolidated bonds; that the tax-collectors should not pay over any
moneys collected by them to any other person than the State
treasurer, and that no court, or judge thereof, should have
power to enjoin the payment of principal or interest of any
of the bonds, or the collection of the special tax therefor.
Immediately after the passage of this act the State adopted
an amendment to its Constitutiont as follows: "The issue of consolidated bonds authorized by the General
Assembly of the State, at its regular session in the year 1874, is
hereby declared to create a valid contract between the State .and
each and every holder of said bonds, which the State shall by no
means and in no wise impair. The said bonds shall be a valid obligation of the State in favor of any bolder thereof, and no court
shall enjoin the payment of the principal.or interest thereof or the
levy and collection of the tax therefor; to secure such levy, collection, and payment, the judicial power shall be exercised when necessary. The tax required for the payment of the principal and
interest of said bonds shall be assessed and collected each and every
year until the bonds shall be paid, principal and interest, and the
proceeds shall be paid by the treasurer of the State to the holders
of said bonds, as the principal and interest of the same shall fall
due, and no further legislation or appropriation shall be requisite
for the said assessment and "'ollection, and for such payment from
the treasury."
Under this authority, consolidated bonds to the amount of
about twelve million dollars were issued. John Elliott, Nicholas Gwynn, and Henry S. Walker are the holders and bearers
of these bonds to the amount of $20,000, and of unpaid
coupons due Jan. 1, 1880, to the amount of $78,900. The
bonds, in accordance with the requirements of the act under
which they were issued, are signed by the governor, auditor,

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUDIEL.

and secretary of state, and the coupons by the auditor and
treasurer.
On the first day of January, 1880, a new Constitution of
Louisiana went into effect. A portion of that Constitution,
called the "Debt Ordinance," is in these words: " STATE DEBT.

"AnT. 1. Be it ordainedby the people of the State of louisiana,

in convention assembled, That the interest to be paid on the consolidated bonds of the State of Louisiana be and is hereby fixed at
two per cent per annum for five years from the first day of January,
1880, three per cent per annum for fifteen years, and four per cent
per annum thereafter, payable semi-annually; and there shall be
levied an annual tax sufficient for the full payment of said interest,
not exceeding three mills, the limit of all State tax being hereby
fixed at six mills: Provided,the holders of consolidated bonds may,
at their option, demand in exchange for the bonds held by them,
bonds of the denomination of five dollars, one hundred dollars, five
hundred dollars, one thousand dollars, to be issued at the rate of
seventy-five cents on the dollar of bonds held and to be surrendered by such holders, the said new issue to bear interest at the
rate of four per cent per annumn, payable semi-annually.
"ART. .2. The holders of consolidated bonds may at any time
present their bonds to the treasurer of the State, or to an agent to
be appointed by the governor, - one in the city of New York and
the oaher in the city of London, - and the said treasurer or agent,
as the case may be, shall indorse or stamp thereon the words,
interest reduced to two per cent per annum for five years from

January 1, 1880, three per cent per annum for fifteen years, and
four per cent per annum thereafter: Provided, the holder or
holders of said bonds may apply to the treasurer for an exchange
of bonds, as provided in the preceding article.
"ART. 3. Be it further ordained,That the coupon of said consolidated bonds falling due the first day of January, 1880, be and
the same is hereby remitted, and any interest taxes collected to
meet said coupon are hereby transferred to defray the expenses of
the State government."
Article 209 of the same Constitution provides that "the State
tax on all property for all purposes whatever, including expenses
of government, schools, levees, and interest, shall not exceed in
any one year six mills on the dollar of its assessed valuation."

LOUISIANA V JUMEL.'

[Sup. OrL

.Elliott, Gwynn, and Walker demanded of the proper State
officers payment of their coupons which fell due Jan. 1, 1880;
but such payment was refused, the auditor and treasurer
stating "that they could not comply with the request made of
them, owing to the prohibition contained in art. 8,State debt
ordinance of the Constitution of the State of Louisiana, adopted
23d July, 1879, and recently promulgated."
All the taxes allowed by the new Constitution have been
levied for the year 1880, but no proceedings have been taken
to levy and collect the five and a half mill tax under the act of
1874. About $300,000 is in the treasury of the State, collected under the levy imposed by the act of 1874 to meet the
coupons falling due January, 1880 ; but the treasurer refuses to
apply it to the payment of the coupons, and claims to hold it
only for the purposes to which it was to be appropriated by the
terms of the new Constitution. There are also taxes levied for
former years under the act of 1874, which remain uncollected,
and are subject to future collection and payment into the
treasury under the operation of the collection laws.
In this condition of things, said Elliott, Gwynn, and Walker,
on the 16th of January, 1880, commenced a suit in equity in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, against the several officers of the State composing the board of liquidation. The prayer of the bill is that
it may be "ordered, adjudged, and decreed" that the act No. 3,
of 1874, "so far as your orator's interests herein above declared
are concerned, was all the time from its passage, has been, and,
at the time of the rendition of the decree herein prayed for, is
a valid and subsisting law of the State of Louisiana; that the
act aforesaid, the constitutional amendment of 1874, and the
several bonds and coupons of interest, held and owned by your
orators as aforesaid, separately and together, constituted, were,
and are, good, valid, subsisting, and binding contracts between
the State aforesaid and the bearers and holders of the consolidated bonds and coupons, the obligation of which contract cannot be lawfully or constitutionally impaired; and that, under
and by virtue of such contract, your orators were and are entitled to take and enjoy all the rights, privileges, taxes, and
moneys, particularly set forth and mentioned in act No. 3,and

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

the constitutional amendment of 1874, aforesaid; that so much
of the aforesaid Constitution of 1879 as alters, varies, modifies,
or changes, or assumes, purports, or attempts to alter, vary,
modify, or change, the provisions of the said act of 1874, and
the constitutional amendment of that year, especially article 208
of the Constitution of the year 1879, and that portion of such
Constitution known and distinguished as the ordinance on
IState debt,' do impair the obligation of the contract herein
above referred to; that the said parts and portions of such Constitution are, therefore, violative of the Constitution of the
United States, and are absolutely null and void, and without
the slightest force or effect -whatever against complainants;
and afford and offer no authority or warrant for the defendants,
or any one or more of them, to make such disposition or application of any part or portion of the aforesaid taxes, and the
proceeds thereof, collected and to be collected, as to enable the
State, therewith, to defray the expenses of the State government, or to accomplish any purpose or purposes other than
those prescribed in the aforesaid funding act, and constitutional
amendment of 1874; that the defendants, and each of them,
may be adjudged and decreed to replace and reinstate to the
credit of said interest fund any moneys or funds that may have
been diverted therefrom; . . . and that said defendants, and
each and every one of them, may be peremptorily enjoined and
restrained from recognizing as valid, against your orators, art.
208 of the Constitution of Louisiana," and the "Debt Ordinance," and "from ignoring the Funding Act and constitutional
amendment of 1874, and from doing, and causing to be done,
any act or thing whatsoever obstructing, preventing, or impeding, or tending, directly or indirectly, to obstruct, prevent, or
impede, in the slightest degree, the prompt, full, and complete
execution and enforcement of the act and constitutional amendment aforesaid ; and, finally, that the said defendants, and each
and every one of them, may be enjoined and restrained to such
other and further extent, and in such additional way and manner, as the court may deem right and proper."
On the 26th of January, 1880, the same parties as relators
filed a petition in a State court of Louisiana against the auditor and treasurer of state and the several members of the

LOUISIANA V. JUMIEL.

[Sup. Ct.

board of liquidation, being Louis A. Wiltz, the governor,
Samuel MeEnery, lieutenant-governor, Allen Jumel, auditor,
Edward A. Burke, treasurer, William A. Strong, secretary of
state, Robert N. Ogden, speaker of the House of Representatives, and the State National Bank of New Orleans, fiscal
agent, for a mandamus requiring them "to apply and pay to
the extinguishment of the interest now due and payable upon
the consolidated bonds of the State of Louisiana, or becoming
due and payable upon said bonds, and to the redemption and
retirement of such consolidated bonds, as are provided for and
required by the aforesaid act No. 3 of the year 1874, any and
all moneys and proceeds of the tax levied or fixed by said act
now in the hands or subject to the control of the said defendants or either one of them, or which have been in the hands
or subject to the control of the said defendants or either one
of them, or which may come into their hands or become subject to the control of either of them, not already applied to
the payment of interest upon the aforesaid bonds, or to the
redemption and retirement of the bonds themselves, as provided for and required in and by said act No. 3 ;" and that
they "may furthermore be commanded and required to proceed, without delay, to collect the tax fixed or levied in and by
the aforesaid act No. 3 of the year 1874, in the manner and to
the extent contemplated by that statute, and to apply and pay
all moneys realized from such tax to the discharge of the interest and redemption of the bonds issued under and by virtue of
the aforesaid Funding Act No. 3... until the principal and interest of such bonds be fully extinguished And discharged ; and,
finally, that the said defendants may severally be commanded
and required to enforce the act herein above last referred to,
and particularly to carry out, perform, and discharge each a'nd
every one and all the ministerial acts, things, and duties respectively required of them by the aforesaid act No. 3, according
to the full and true intent and purport of that act."
This suit was afterwards removed into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
Upon final hearing the Circuit Court denied the relief prayed
for in each of the suits, because, as stated in the conclusions of
law which were filed in connection with the findings of fact, it

Oct. 1882-.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

appeared that the respondents were constitutional officers of the
State, and had no relation to the funds collected, or to be collected, except as such officers; that they were clothed with no
authority and charged with no duty to pay over or collect said
funds to or in behalf of the relators and complainants, but, on
the contrary, by the organic law of the State under which their
offices were created and exist, the provisions of which constitute their sole mandate, are prohibited from so doing. For
these reasons it was concluded that the State was the party
which, by its action in its original capacity through the people,
had rendered the execution of its contract with the relators impossible through the instrumentality of its officers or functionaries, and that the question presented was political rather than
judicial, and could not be adjudicated without calling the State
to the bar of the court and subverting its entire financial basis,
no matter how unjustly adopted and ordained.
From a judgment and a decree to that effect a writ of error
was brought and an appeal taken.
The two suits may properly be considered together here, as
they were below, because they present substantially the same
questions.
We have no doubt it was the intention of the State of Louisiana to enter into a formal contract with each and every holder
of bonds so issued under the act of 1874, to levy and collect an
annual tax of five and one-half mills on the dollar of the assessed
value of all the real and personal property in the State, and to
apply the revenue derived therefrom to the payment of the
principal and interest of the bonds, and to no other purpose.
By the obligation so entered into it was also agreed, that the
tax levied by the act and confirmed by the Constitution should
be a continuing annual tax until the bonds, principal and interest, were paid in full; that the appropriation of the revenue
derived therefrom should be a continuing annual appropriation, and that no further authority than that contained in the
act should be required to enable the taxing officers to levy and
collect the tax, or the disbursing officers to pay out the money
as collected in discharge bf the obligation of the bonds. Whatever may be ordinarily the effect of a promise or a pledge of
faith by a State, the language employed in this instance shows

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ot.

unmistakably a design to make these promises and these pledges
so far contracts that their obligation would be protected by the
Constitution of the United States against impairment.
It is equally manifest that the object of the State in adopting the "Debt Ordinance " in 1879 was to stop the further
levy of the promised tax, and to prevent the disbursing officers
from using the revenue from previous levies to pay the interest
falling due in January, 1880, as well as the principal and interest maturing thereafter.
The bonds and coupons which the parties to these suits hold
have not been reduced to judgment, and there is no way in
which the State, in its capacity as an organized political community, can be brought before any court of the State, or of the
United States, to answer a suit in the name of these holders
to obtain such a judgment. It was expressly decided by the
Supreme Court of the State in State, ex rel. Hart, v. Burke,
33 La. Ann. 498, that such a suit could not be brought in the
State courts, and under the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution no State can be sued in the courts of the United States
by a citizen of another State. Neither was there when the
bonds were issued, nor is there now, any statute or judicial
decision giving the bondholders a remedy in the State courts
or elsewhere, either by mandamus or injunction, against the
State in its political capacity, to compel it to do what it has
agreed should be done, but which it refuses to do.
These, then, are suits by creditors at large, of the class provided, for in the act of 1874, to compel, by judicial process, the
officers of the State to enforce the provisions of the act, when
the State, by an amendment to its Constitution, has undertaken
to prohibit them from doing so, and when the court, if it requires an officer to proceed, cannot protect him with a judgment to which the State is a party. The persons sued are the
executive officers of the State, and they are proceeded against
in their official capacity. The money in the treasury is the
property of the State, and not in any legal sense the property
of the bond or coupon holders. If it be lost or destroyed, the
loss will fall alone on the State or its agents, and the bondholders will be entitled to payment in full from other sources.
True, the money was raised to pay this particular class of debts,

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUIEL.

and the agreement was that it should not be used for any other
purpose; but, notwithstanding this, the State has undertaken to
appropriate it to defray the expenses of the government. In
this way the State has violated its contract, and, if it could be
sued, might perhaps be made to set aside its wrongful appropriation of the money already in hand, and raise .more by
taxation, if necessary.
That the Constitution of 1879 on its face takes away the
power of the executive officers to comply with the terms of
the act of 1874 cannot be denied. As against everything but
the outstanding bonds and coupons, this Constitution is the fundamental law of the State, and it is only invalid so far as it
impairs the obligation of the contract on the faith of which the
bonds and coupons were taken by their respective holders.
The question, then, is whether the contract can be enforced,
notwithstanding the Constitution, by coercing the agents and
officers of the State, whose authority has been withdrawn in
violation of the contract, without the State itself in its political
capacity being a party to the-proceedings.
The relief asked will require the officers against whom the
process is issued to act contrary to the positive orders of the
supreme political power of the State, whose creatures they are,
and to which they are ultimately responsible in law for what
they do. They must use the public money in the treasury and
under their official control in one way, when the supreme
power has directed them to use it in another, and they must
raise more money by taxation when the same power has declared that it shall not be done.
The parties prosecuting the suits do not, in direct terms, ask
for the payment of the bonds and coupons they hold. In fact,
this seems to have been purposely avoided, for in the suit for
mwnzdan i8 the petition was amended before the hearing by
striking out all that would have the effect of confining the
command of the writ to such a payment, and left the prayer for
an order requiring the use of the money raised under the act of
1874 for the redemption and retirement generally of all the
bonds and coupons of the issue. In the suit in equity, while it
was asked that the "Debt Ordinance" of 1879 might be declared invalid as against the complainants, payment of the
voL. xvii.

46

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct

amount due was only sought through the general administration of the finances in accordance with the provisions of the
act of 1874. In neither of the suits was any inquiry to be instituted in respect to the particular bonds and coupons held by
the plaintiffs, or any special relief afforded as to them. All
that is asked will inure as much to the benefit of the other
holders of similar obligations as to the particular parties to
these suits. So that the remedy sought implies power in the
judiciary to compel the State to abide by and perform .its contracts for the payment of money, not by rendering and enforcing a judgment in the ordinary form of judicial procedure, but
by assuming the control of the administration of the fiscal
affairs of the State to the extent that may be necessary to
accomplish the end in view.
It is insisted, however, that the money in the treasury collected from the tax levied for the year 1879 constitutes a trust
fund of which the individual defendants are ex officio trustees,
and that they may be enjoined as such trustees from diverting
it from the purposes to which it was pledged under the contract.
The individual defendants are the several officers of the State,
who, under the law, compose the board of liquidation. That
board is, in no sense, a custodian of this fund. Its duty was
to negotiate the exchange of the new bonds for the old on the
terms proposed. It had nothing to do with levying the tax,
collecting the money, or paying it out further than by purchasing the bonds with any surplus there might be from time to
time in the treasury over what was required to meet the interest. The provision in the law that it shall be the duty of the
auditor, treasurer, and the board, respectively, to collect the tax,
pay the interest, and redeem the bonds evidently means no more
than that the auditor and treasurer shall perform their respective duties under the general laws in the assessment and collection of the tax, and shall pay in the usual manner the interest
and principal of the bonds as they respectively fall due, and that
the board shall purchase and retire the bonds whenever there is
a surplus, which, under the law, is to be used for that purpose.
The treasurer of state is the keeper of the treasury, and in
that way is the keeper of the money collected from this tax,
just as he is the keeper of other public moneys. The taxes

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA

V. JUMEL.

were collected by the tax-collectors and paid over to him, that
is to say, into the State treasury, just as other taxes were when
collected. He is no more a trustee of these moneys than he is
of all other public moneys. He holds them, but only as the
agent of the State. If there is any trust, the State is the trustee, and unless the State can be sued the trustee cannot be
enjoined. The officers owe duty to the State alone, and have
no contract relations with the bondholders. They can only act
as the State directs them to act, and hold as the State allows
them to bold. It was never agreed that their relations with
the bondholders should be any other than as officers of the State,
or that they should have any control over this fund except to
keep it like other funds in the treasury and pay it out according to law. They can be moved through the State, but not the
State through them.
In this connection there is much *that is instructive in Beg.
v. Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, Law Rep. 7 Q. B.
387. There money had been appropriated by Parliament for
the payment of costs of a particular character, and an application was made for a mandamus to compel the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury to pay certain bills which had been
properly taxed; but although the court was emphatic in its
declaration that payment ought to be made, the writ was refused because the Lords Commissioners held "the money as
the servants of the Crown, and no duty was imposed upon them
as between them and the persons to whom the money was payable." Lord Chief Justice Cockburn, in his opinion, said (p.
394): "Though I quite agree that according to the appropriation act they (the Lords Commissioners) were bound to apply
the money upon the vouchers being produced, and had no
authority to retax these bills, still I cannot say that there is
any duty which makes it incumbent upon them to do what I
cannot hesitate to say they ought to have done, except as servants of the Crown; because in that character they have received the money, and in no other." And Blackburn, J. (p.
399) : "It seems to me that the obligation, such as it is, is upon
her Majesty, to be discharged through her servants, and you
cannot proceed therefor against the servants." So, here, the
obligation is all on the State, to be discharged through its

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ot.

servants, and the money is held by the officers proceeded against
intheir character as servants of the State, and no other.
There is nothing in any of the cases in, this court that are
relied on which, to our minds, authorizes any such relief as is
asked. In Osborn v. Banc of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738,
which is the leading case, and cited as authority in all the
others, the object was to prevent money which had been unlawfully taken out of the bank by the officers of the State from
getting into the treasury. The money was, in legal effect,
stopped while passing from the bank to the treasury. The controlling facts are thus stated by Chief Justice Marshall in the
opinion (p. 868): "But when we reflect that the defendants,
Osborn and Harper, are incontestably liable for the full amount
of the money taken out of the bank; that the defendant, Currie,
is also responsible for the sum received by him, it having come
to his hands with full knowledge of the unlawful means by
which it was acquired; that the defendant, Sullivan, is also
responsible for the sum specifically delivered to him, with notice
that it was the property of the bank, unless the form of having
made an entry on the books of the treasury can countervail
the fact, that it was, in truth, kept untouched, in a trunk, by
itself, as a deposit, to await the event of the pending suit
respecting it; we may lay it down as a proposition, safely to
be affirmed, that all the defendants in the cause were liable in
an action at law for the amount of this decree. If the original
injunction was properly awarded, for the reasons stated in the
preceding part of this opinion, the money, having reached the
hands of all those to whom it afterwards came with notice of
that injunction, might be pursued, so long as it remained a
distinct deposit, neither mixed with the money of the treasury,
nor put into circulation. . . The money of the bank had
been taken, without authority, by some of the defendants, and
was detained by the only person who was not an original wrongdoer, in a specific form; so that detinue might have been maintained for it, had it been in the power of the bank to prove
the facts which are necessary to establish the identity of the
property sued for." Under this state of facts the order for its
return involved no question of power to interfere with what
was actually in the treasury. The officers stood in the place

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

of a sheriff who had levied an execution on goods and was sued
to test his right to keep them, and the principle applied in the
decision is thus stated in the head-note of the report: "A court
of equity will interpose 'by injunction to prevent the transfer
of a specific thing which, if transferred, will be irretrievably
lost to the owner, such as negotiable stocks and securities."
Thus the money seized was kept out of the treasury, because
if it got in it would be irretrievably lost to the bank, since the
State could not be sued to recover it back. No one pretended
that if the money had been actually paid into the treasury,
and had become mixed with the other money there, it could
have been got back from the State by a suit against the officers.
They would have been individually liable for the unlawful
seizure and conversion, but the recovery would be against them
individually for the wrongs they had personally done, and could
have no effect on the money which was held by the State.
Certainly no one would ever suppose that by a proceeding
against the officers alone, they could be held as trustees for the
bank, and required to set apart from the moneys in the treasury
an amount equal to that which had been improperly put there,
and hold it for the discharge of the liability which the State
incurred by reason of the unlawful exaction.
In Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, the receiver of a land-grant
railroad obtained an injunction against the Governor and the
Commissioner of the General Land-Office of Texas to restrain
them from incumbering, by patents to others, lands which had
been contracted to the railroad company. The legal title was in
the State, but the equitable title in the company. The specific
tracts in dispute were, by the contract which had been made,
segregated from the public domain and set apart for the company. The case rests on the same principle it would if patents
had been actually issued to the company, and the State, through
its officers, was attempting to place a cloud on the title by
granting subsequent patents to others.
Board of Liquidation v. McC'omb, 92 U. S. 531, arose under
the same act of 1874 that we are now considering. The board
was there enjoined, at the instance of bondholders, from admitting to the privileges of the compromise proposed by the State
certain persons other than those originally provided for and on

LOUISIANA V. JUMIEL.

[Sup. Ct.

different terms. And this clearly because the board was, by
the very terms of the law, charged with the duty of exchanging
the bonds specifically set apart by the contract for a particular
purpose, and every bonafide bondholder, by accepting the compromise offered, became personally interested in securing the
due administration of the trust which had thus been committed
to the board. In fact the board held the new issue of bonds in
trust, and every one who gave up his old obligations and accepted the new in settlement became a beneficiary under the
trust, and might act accordingly.
In this case, however, there is no such trust. As has already
been said, the board is charged with no duty in respect to the
taxes, except in connection with the purchase of bonds whenever there are funds which can be used in that way. The auditor and treasurer are required to audit and pay the coupons
as they are presented; but that does not make them trustees
for the bondholders of the money in the treasury out of which
the payment is to be made. They may draw on the fund
raised to make the payment, but that is the extent of their
official control over it. The law has never made it a part of
their official duty to separate from the other moneys in the
treasury that realized from the taxes in question, and to hold
it in trust for the bondholders. The State has cont racted not
to use this money in any other way than to pay the debt; but,
as against the State, the officers have no right to say they will
keep it for that purpose only. It may be, without doubt,
easily ascertained from the accounts how much of the money
on hand is applicable to the payment of this class of debts;
but the law nowhere requires the setting apart of this fund any
more than others from the common stock. In the treasury all
funds are mingled together, and kept so until called for to meet
specific demands.
In United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, it was held that the
officers of the United States, holding in their official capacity
i the possession of lands to which the United States had no title,
could be required to surrender their possession to the rightful
owner even though the United States were not a party to the
judgment under which the eviction was to be had. Here, however, the money in question is lawfully the property of the

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA

V. JUMEL.

State. It is in the manual possession of an officer of the State.
The bondholders never owned it. The most they can claim is
that the State ought to use it to pay their coupons, but until
so used it is in no sense theirs.
Little need be said with special reference to the suit for
mandamus. In this no trust is involved ; but the simple question presented is, whether a single bondholder, or a committee
of bondholders, can, by the judicial writ of mandamus, compel
the executive officers of the State to perform generally their
several duties under the law. The relators do not occupy the
position of creditors of the State demanding payment from an
executive officer charged with the ministerial duty of taking
the money from the public treasury and handing it over to
them, and, on his refusal, seeking to compel him to perform
that specific duty. What they ask is that the auditor of
state, the treasurer of state, and the board of liquidation
may be required to enforce the act of 1874, and " carry out,
perform, and discharge each and every one of the ministerial
acts, things, and duties respectively required of them, . . . according to the full and true intent and purport of that act."
Certainly no suit begun in the Circuit Court for such relief
would be entertained, for that court can ordinarily grant a writ
of imandamus only in aid of some existing jurisdiction. Bath
County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 244; Davenport v. County of Dodge,
105 U. S. 237. Our attention has been called to no case in
the courts of Louisiana in which such general relief has been
afforded; and the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was, therefore, in no way enlarged through the operation of the removal
acts, even if this is a case which was properly removed, -a
question we do not deem it necessary now to decide. The
remedy sought, in order to be complete, would require the
court to assume all the executive authority of the State, so far
as it related- to the enforcement of this law, and to supervise
the conduct of all persons charged with any official duty in respect to the levy, collection, and disbursement of the tax in
question until the bonds, principal and interest, were paid in
full, and that, too, in a proceeding in which the State, as a
State, was not and could not be made a party. It needs no
argument tb show that the political power cannot be thus

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. 0t.

ousted of its jurisdiction and the judiciary set in its place.
When a State submits itself, without reservation, to the jurisdiction of a court in a particular case, that jurisdiction may be
used to give full effect to what the State has by its act of submission allowed to be done; and if the law permits coercion of
the public officers to enforce any judgment that may be rendered, then such coercion may be employed for that purpose.
But this is very far from authorizing the courts, when a State
cannot be sued, to set up its jurisdiction over the officers in
charge of the public moneys, so as to control them as against
.the political power in their administration of the finances of
the State. In our opinion, to grant the relief asked for in either
of these cases would be to exercise such a power.
Judgment affirmed.
-Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

I am not able to concur in the judgI
will briefly state my reasons.
and
cases,
ment in these
the common law that the sovereign
of
rule
the
I admit that
cannot be held amenable to process in his own courts without
his consent, is applied in this country to the State, under which
designation are included the people within its territorial limits, in whom resides whatever sovereignty the State possesses.
But they act and speak in this country, at least in times of
peace, only through the Constitution and laws. For their will
we must look to these manifestations of it. If in that way
they consent to suits, either directly against themselves by
name or against any of their authorized agents, there can be
no reasons of policy or of law against issuing process in proper
cases to bring them or their agents before the court. And if
in that way, that is, by their Constitution or laws, they direct
their officers to do or omit certain things, in the doing or omission of which individuals are interested, and they provide
appropriate remedies to compel or enjoin the performance of
those things, there can be no reason why such remedies should
not be resorted to when private rights are involved.
And such is the case with respect to the subjects of the
MR. JUSTICE FIELD.

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

present suits. The State of Louisiana entered into certain
engagements with her creditors; she embodied them in the
most solemn form in a statute and in her organic law; she
provided for the levying of a tax to pay those creditors; she
prescribed certain duties for designated officers to perform in
its collection and disbursement; she made it a felony for those
officers to divert the fund thus raised to other purposes; she
declared that no further legislation should be necessary for the
collection of the tax or the appropriation of the proceeds, and
that for the collection and payment of the tax the judicial
power of the State should be exercised when necessary. The.
plaintiffs in these suits seek the enforcement of these engagements; and they are resisted merely because the engagements
are repudiated by the State; and this court holds that it has
no power to stay the repudiation.
*That the character and object of these suits may more
clearly appear, I will briefly give the history of the action of
the State. Prior to 1874 Louisiana had contracted an indebtedness amounting to about eighteen millions of dollars. She
asserted that a large portion of it had been fraudulently contracted; while the holders contended that their claims were
valid and that she was legally and equitably bound therefor.
Under these circumstances, and with a view to determine the
conflicting claims of the parties, and to liquidate and settle her
indebtedness, she proposed to issue new bonds for sixty per
cent of the alleged indebtedness, upon the surrender of the
claims; and, to induce the surrender, offered to make various
enactments to secure the principal and interest of the new
bonds. In 1874 she passed an act, known as act No. 3 of the
laws of that year, entitled "An Act to provide for funding
obligations of the State by exchange for bonds; to provide for
principal and interest of said bonds; to establish a board of
liquidation ; to authorize certain judicial proceedings against
it; to define and punish violations of this act; to prohibit certain officers diverting funds, except as provided by law, and to
punish violations therefor; to levy a continuing tax and provide a continuing appropriation for said bonds; to make a contract between the State and holders of said bonds; to prohibit
injunctions in certain cases; 'to limit the indebtedness of the

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

State and to limit State taxes; to annul certain grants of State
aid; to prohibit the modification, novation, or extension of any
contract heretofore made for State aid; to provide for the receipt of certain warrants for certain taxes; and to repeal all
conflicting laws."
By this act the governor, lieutenant-governor, auditor, treasurer, secretary of state, and speaker of the House of Representatives, and a seventh person to be selected by them, called
a fiscal agent, were constituted a board of liquidation, and were
authorized to issue bonds of the State, to be called consolidation bonds, payable in forty years, with interest at seven per
cent, and to exchange them for valid outstanding bonds and
auditor's warrants at the rate of sixty cents on the dollar. The
interest was to be payable semi-annually, on the first of January and July of each year; and for it coupons were to be
annexed to the bonds.
The act levied an annual tax of five and a half mills on the
dollar of the assessed value of all real and personal property in
the State, and declared that it should be collected for the purpose of paying the principal and interest of the consolidated
bonds, and that the revenue derived therefrom was thereby "set
apart and appropriated for that purpose, and no other," and that
it should be a felony for the fiscal agent or any officer of the
State or of the board of liquidation to divert the fund from its
legitimate channel. It also declared that this tax, which is
called an interest tax, "shall be a continuing annual tax until
the said consolidated bonds shall be paid or redeemed, principal
and interest; and the said appropriation shall be a continuing
annual appropriation during the same period, and this levy and
appropriation shall authorize and make it the duty of the
auditor and treasurer, and the said board respectively, to collect said tax annually, and pay said interest and redeem the
said bonds until the same shall be fully discharged."
One section also provided "that any judge, tax-collector, or
any officer of the State obstructing the execution of this act,
or any part of it, or failing to perform his official duty thereunder, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by imprisonment not exceeding
five years and by fine not exceeding two thousand dollars, at
the discretion of the court."

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

Another section enacted that each provision of the act should
be, and it was declared to be, "a contract between the State of
Louisiana and each and every holder of the bonds" issued
under the act.
But, as though this act was not of itself a sufficient assurance
of the unalterable purpose of the State to fulfil the promise it
contained, an amendment to her Constitution was proposed and
adopted, of which the following is the first section: "The issue of consolidated bonds, authorized by the General Assembly of the State, at its regular session in the year
1874, is hereby declared to create a valid contract between the
State and each and every holder of said bonds, which the
State shall by no means and in no wise impair. The said bonds
shall be a valid obligation of the State in favor of any holder
thereof, and no court shall enjoin the payment of the principal
or interest thereof, or the levy and collection of the tax
therefor; to secure such levy, collection, and payment, the
judicial power shall be exercised when necessary.
The tax
required for the payment of the principal and interest of said
bonds shall be assessed and collected each and every year,
until the bonds shall be paid, principal and interest, and the
proceeds shall be paid by the treasurer of the State to the
holders of said bonds, as the principal and interest of the same
shall fall due, and no further legislation or appropriation shall
be requisite for the said assessment and collection, and for
such payment from the treasury."
It would puzzle the wit of man to find anywhere in the
legislation of the world a more perfect assurance of the fixed
purpose of a State to keep faith with her creditors, or of a
pledge of a portion of her revenues for their payment, or of
the submission of her officers to the compulsory process of the
judicial tribunals, if necessary, to carry out her engagements.
With the knowledge that the Federal Constitution ordains
"that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
contracts," Louisiana proclaims that each provision of the act
shall be and is thereby declared to be a contract between her
and each and every bolder of the bonds issued under the act.
And the constitutional amendment reiterates substantially the
same thing by declaring that the issue of the consolidated bonds

LOUISIANA V. JUEL.

[Sup. 0t.

created a valid contract between the State and each and every
holder of said bonds, "which the State shall by no means and
in no wise impair."
Under this act and the constitutional amendment, obligations of the State amounting to over $12,000,000 were surrendered, and bonds taken for sixty per cent of their amount,
which are held all over the country. The complainants in
the injunction suit, and the petitioners for the mandamus,
hold for themselves and others, whom they represent, $900,000
of the bonds. The interest on them has not been paid, and
yet a portion of the tax levied to meet such interest has been
collected, and is now in the hands of the treasurer of the
State, one of the board of liquidation. The amount is admitted to be about $300,000, and as collections were making when this admission was given, there is now probably
a much larger amount in his hands. In both suits it is
alleged that the treasurer and other officers of the State intend
to use the funds thus collected for other purposes than the
payment of the interest. In one of them an injunction is asked
against such a perversion of the funds. In the other a mandamus is asked to compel the application of the funds to the
payment of the interest, and also the collection of the taxes
authorized by the act of 1874, and the constitutional amendment of that year, to meet further interest as it shall become
due.
Why should not both these prayers be granted ?
The only answer offered is, that in 1879 Louisiana adopted a
new Constitution, which reduced the interest on the consolidated bonds to two per cent per annum for five years, to three
per cent for fifteen years afterwards, and to four per cent
thereafter, with a proviso that the holders of the bonds might
take new bonds for seventy-five per cent on the dollar, drawing four per cent interest.
The new Constitution also directed that the coupon of the
consolidated bonds falling due Jan. 1, 1880, should be remitted, and that the interest taxes collected for its payment
should be transferred to defray the expenses of the State
government.
The change in the rate of interest and the
remission of the coupon falling due Jan. 1i 1880, were made

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

without the consent of the bondholders, or any consultation
Of course the new Constitution, in these prowith them.
visions, is a repudiation of the engagements of the act of 1874
and of the constitutional amendment of that year, and is a
direct violation of the inhibition of the Federal Constitution
against the impairment of the obligation of contracts.
Is this inhibition against the repudiation by the State of
her engagements of any efficacy? The majority of the court
answer No. I answer, adhering to the doctrines taught by a
long line of illustrious judges preceding me, "Yes, it is;" and
though now denied, I feel confident that at no distant day its
power will be reasserted and maintained. In that faith I dissent from the judgment of my associates, and I shall continue
to do so on all proper occasions, until the prohibition inserted
in the Constitution as a barrier against the agrarian and despoiling spirit, which both precedes and follows a breach of
public faith, is restored to its original vigor.
The question whether the court will restrain the diversion of
the funds in the hands of the treasurer, a member of the board
of liquidation, is to be considered precisely as though the new
Constitution had never been adopted. The inhibition of the
Federal Constitution is upon the State and not merely upon
her legislature. All the authority which her people can confer,
whether by constitutional enactment or legislative provision, is
subject to the inhibition. Her people are at all times under
the Constitution of the United States, subject to its restrictions
as they are entitled to its privileges. They cannot lawfully
insert in any constitution or organic law provisions contravening that instrument. They cannot authorize their legislature
to pass a bill of attainder, or an ex post facto law, or a law
impairing the obligation of contracts, nor can they embody in
their Constitution clauses amounting to or operating as such
enactments. Any such authority or clauses would be treated
as nugatory and futile by all tribunals holding that the Constitution of the United States is, what on its face it is declared to
be, the supreme law of the land. Therefore, the new Constitution of Louisiana stands before us, with respect to her past
contracts, with no greater weight than would a legislative
enactment containing similar provisions; and what the State

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ot.

authorizes to be done by her judicial tribunals against her
officers, in the collection of the tax and the application of the
moneys raised for the.payment of the interest on the bonds,
can be done by the judicial tribunals of the Federal government when a case is transferred to them from a State court.
If the new Constitution had never been adopted, there could
be no question as to the power of the State courts to require
that the moneys collected be applied to the payment of the
interest. It would not only have been the duty of the board
of liquidation to thus apply them, but it would have been a
felony to refuse to do so. Now, whatever enactment, constitutional or legislative, impairs the obligation of the contract
with the bondholders, that is, abrogates or lessens the means of
its enforcement, is void. Therefore, the new Constitution, as
to that contract, is to be treated as though it never existed.
As said by this- court, without a dissenting voice, only two
years ago, in Wolff v. New Orleans : "Legislation producing
this latter result (impairment of the obligation of a contract
by abrogating or lessening the means of its enforcement), not
indirectly as a consequence of legitimate measures taken, as
will som'etimes happen, but directly by operating upon those
means, is prohibited by the Constitution, and must be disregarded, treated as though never enacted, by all courts recognizing the Constitution as the paramount law of the land."
103 U. S. 358, 365.
And again, in the same case: "The prohibition of the Constittition, against the passage of laws impairing the obligation
of contracts applies to the contracts of the State, and to those
of its agents acting under its authority, as well as to contracts between individuals. And that obligation is impaired,
in the sense of the Constitution, when the means by which a
contract at the time of its execution could be enforced, that is,
by which the parties could be obliged to perform it, are rendered less efficacious by legislation operating directly upon
those means." Id. 367.
No reason in law, therefore, any more than in morals, can be
given why the mandates of the act of 1874 and the constitutional amendment of that year should not be carried out.
There is nothing in the fact that the defendants are officers of

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

the State. The books are fall of cases where executive and
administrative officers of a State have been required by the
judiciary to do certain acts, or been enjoined from doing them.
And it has not been deemed an answer to the proceeding that
the State was interested in the controversy.
In Osborn v. Bank of the United States, decided in 1824, an
injunction was sustained against the treasurer and auditor of
Ohio to prevent the seizure of moneys belonging to the bank
in payment of taxes levied under an unconstitutional law of
the State. It was urged with much zeal that the State of Ohio,
though not nominally a defendant, was the real party in interest, and that the suit was in fact against the State, which it
was conceded could not be sued directly. But the court said,
Chief Justice 1arshall delivering the opinion: " If the State of
Ohio could have been made a party defendant, it can scarcely
be denied that this would be a strong case for an injunction.
The objection is that as the real party cannot be biought
before the court, a suit cannot be sustained against the agents
of that party; and cases have been cited to show that a court
of chancery will not make a decree unless all those who are
substantially interested be made parties to the suit. This is
certainly true where it is in the power of the plaintiff to make
them parties, but if the person who is the real principal, the
person who is the true source of the mischief, by whose power
and for whose advantage it is done, be himself above the law,
be exempt from all judicial process, it would be subversive of
the best-established principles to say that the laws could not
afford the same remedies against the agent employed in doing
the wrong which they would afford against him could his
principal be joined in the suit." 9 Wheat. 738, 842.
These views, as was said in the opinion in United States v.
Lee, 106 U. S.196, have never been overruled; and the case
itself is cited with approval in Davis v. Grag, decided in 1872,
as establishing, among other propositions, that "Where the
State is concerned, the State should be made a party, if it could
be done. That it cannot be done is a sufficient reason for the
omission to do it, and the court may proceed to decree against
the officers of the State in all respects as if the State were a
party to the record. In deciding who are parties to the suit,

LOUISIANA V. JUEL.

[Sup. Ct.

the court will not look beyond the record. Making a State
officer a party does not make the State a party, although her
law may have prompted his action, and the State may stand
behind him as the real party in interest." 16 Wall. 203, 220.
In .Davis v. Gray, the Governor and the Commissioner of
the General Land-Office of Texas were "enjoined from issuing
or causing or permitting to issue" patents of certain lands, the
sale of which her Constitution had authorized, upon the supposition that the title of a corporation to them had been lost.
In considering the right of a private party to maintain suit
against those officers, inasmuch as a suit could not be brought
directly against the State, the court reasserted the doctrine
announced in Osborn v. Bank of the United States.
The objection suggested was also considered and disposed of
in Board of Liquidation v. Mc Comb, a case against these very
officers, decided in 1875. There the board undertook to liquidate a debt contracted in reconstructing and keeping in repair
levees on the Mississippi River, with consolidated bonds issued
under the act of 1874, pursuant to the authority of a subsequent statute of the legislature. A citizen of Delaware holding some of the consolidated bonds contended that the levee
debt was not one of the debts to fund which these bonds had
been issued, and that the use of them for that purpose would
defeat one of the benefits of the funding scheme. He therefore applied to the Circuit Court of the United States for an
injunction to restrain the board from funding the levee debt
with those bonds, and obtained it. The injunction was made
perpetual by a final decree, which was affirmed here. "In our
judgment, therefore," we said, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, "the court below was right in granting the injunction as
to the consolidated bonds, if the defendants, occupying the
official position they do, are amenable to such a process. On
this branch of the subject, the numerous and well-considered
cases heretofore decided by this court leave little to be said.
The objections to proceeding against State officers by mandamus
or injunction are, first, that it is in effect proceeding against
the State itself; and, secondly, that it interferes with the
official discretion vested in the officers. It is conceded that
neither of these things can be done. A State, without its

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

consent, cannot be sued by an individual; and a court cannot
substitute its own discretion for that of executive officers in
matters belonging to the proper jurisdiction of the latter. But
it has been well settled that when a plain official duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is to be performed, and performance is refused, any person who will sustain personal injury by
such refusal may have a mandamus to compel its performance;
and when such duty is threatened to be violated by some positive official act, any person who will sustain personal injury
thereby, for which adequate compensation cannot be bad at
law, may have an injunction to prevent it. In such cases, the
writs of mnandainus and injunction are somewhat correlative
to each other. In either case, if the officer plead the authority
of an unconstitutional law for the non-performance or violation
of his duty, it will not prevent the issuing of the writ. An
unconstitutional law will be treated by the courts as null and
void." 92 U. S. 531, 541.
Nor is there any force in the objection that the funds which
the complainants and petitioners seek to reach are in the
treasury of the State. They are appropriated by the law of
1874, and by the constitutional amendment of that year, to
the payment of the interest on the consolidated bonds. The
statute declares that the revenue derived from the taxes levied
to pay the interest and principal of the bonds is "set apart and
appropriated to that purpose, and no other; " that "the said
appropriation shall be a continuing annual appropriation"
until the bonds are paid or redeemed, principal and interest;
and that "it shall be deemed a felony for the fiscal agent, or
any officer of the State or board of liquidation to divert the
fund" from this channel. The constitutional amendment declares that no further legislation than that specified therein
shall be requisite for the appropriation of the proceeds of the
taxes levied.
Nothing more could be expressed to render the appropriation of the fund for the interest and principal of the bonds
absolutely complete.
The fund could not afterwards be
diverted to any other purpose. The ministerial duty alone
remained with the officer of the State having charge of the
fund, wherever it might be, to apply it.
VOL. XVW1.

47

LOUISIANA V. JUMIEL.

[Sup. Ct.

There would seem to be an impression that to constitute a
valid appropriation there must be some segregation of the
amount appropriated from the general mass of money in the
treasury, by which it is placed in packages, bags, or boxes,
separate from the rest and set aside. But nothing of the
kind is done, nor is it required to take the amount appropriated
from the control of the fiscal officers of the State for other
purposes. The appropriation is the legalization of the use of
a designated amount in the treasury for a specific object, and
an inhibition of its use in any other way. That is all. Henceforth to meet the appropriation the fiscal officers must retain
the designated amount in the treasury, but not necessarily
separated in packages, bags, or boxes from other funds. Their
duty is purely ministerial,- to hold it and pay it when called
for. Were this not so, there could be no appropriations of
moneys before their collection, which it is the constant practice of legislative bodies to make in view of anticipated
revenue. When the moneys are collected and passed into the
treasury, the appropriation is complete. They are, in the eye
of the law, dedicated to a specific purpose, and the party in
whose behalf the appropriation is made can compel its payment by mandamus, as in the case of appropriations for the
salaries of judges, heads of departments, and others. That
writ is the common and appropriate remedy to enforce such
payment.
Nor is there any weight in the objection that the officers of
the State are called upon to enforce the collection of the tax.
They are simply called upon to obey the mandates of the law
and Constitution of the State. Both levy the tax, and designate its amount and the officers to collect it. The statute
declares that the tax shall be a "continuing annual tax" until
the bonds are paid or redeemed. The constitutional amendment declares that "the tax required for the payment of the
principal and interest of said bonds shall be assessed and
collected each and every year until the bonds shall be paid,
principal and interest, and the proceeds shall be paid by the
treasurer of the State to the holders of said bonds, as the
principal and interest of the same shall fall due, and no
further legislation or appropriation shall be requisite for the

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

said assessment and collection, and for such payment from the
treasury."
Here are provisions for levying, collecting, and appropriating,
sufficient for these purposes, or language is incapable of expressing them. Whatever doubts might be entertained as to
the authority of the legislature to make a levy and an appropriation to take effect in subsequent years, to meet the
interest then accruing, they are removed by the constitutional
amendment. There is nothing in the reason of the thing why
the levy of taxes and the appropriations for all purposes should
be made annually. They may be made for years in advance,
if the Constitution of the State so permits, in order to provide
for a sinking fund or to meet an expenditure for a work which
may take years for its completion, or to meet, as in this case,
future interest on its indebtedness.
In some of the States the
sessions of the legislature are biennial. The interval between
the sessions might be increased, and there would be quite as
much objection, so far as power is concerned, to the levy of
taxes, and to the appropriations for those periods as for one
year.
The tax provided and the appropriation of its proceeds were
made for many years by the amendment to the Constitution,
which expressed at the time the will of the people of the State.
Nothing is to be done by the court and nothing is asked of it
but to require that this will be obeyed.
There is another reason suggested against the maintenance
of the suits, not, as appears to me, very potential, but which
affects the judgment of some able men, - that the obligations
of States are purely honorary, and cannot, therefore, be the
subject of judicial cognizance.
What is meant by honorary,
so far as I can understand it, is that the obligations may or
may not be fulfilled as the States will; in other words, that
they are matters of convenience and not of duty, to be performed if the caprice of the hour approve, to be disregarded
if the caprice of a subsequent hour disapprove. Or, to use
other terms of explanation, as there is no mode of compelling
a State, by suit directly against her, to observe her obligations, they must be deemed honorary; that is, just so far
as they may be dishonored without redress to those who trusted

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

to her good faith, they are to be deemed honorary obligations.
Whatever merit this suggestion may possess, it can have no
place for consideration here. When a State enters into the
markets of the world as a borrower, she, for the time, lays aside
her sovereignty and becomes responsible as a civil corporation,
And although suits against her even then may not be allowed,
her officers can be compelled to do what she then contracts
that they shall do. And as to these consolidated bonds, Louisiana has declared in her organic law that they created a valid
contract between her and each and every holder, which she
"shall by no means and in no wise impair," and that no court
"shall enjoin the payment of the principal or interest thereof,
or the levy and collection of the tax therefor," but that to secure
them her judicial power shall be exercised when necessary.
These engagements are not imperfect obligations, mere honorary promises, which she can keep or break without accountability.
If a State can successively repudiate her solemn obligations,
can obtain the surrender of a large portion of the demands of
her creditors upon pledges for the more prompt payment of the
remainder, and then set aside as worthless the pledges given
with no possibility of redress to the creditors, either by enforcement of the pledges, or by a return of the surrendered demands,
what confidence can be reposed anywhere? Public faith will
be the synonym of public dishonesty; and, as I stated on a
former occasion: "If the government will not keep its faith,
little better can be expected from the citizen. If contracts are
not observed, no property will in the end be respected ; and all
history shows that rights of persons are unsafe when property
is insecure. Protection to one goes with protection to the other,
and there can be neither prosperity nor progress where this
foundation of all just government is unsettled." Sinlingq Fund
Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 767.
On the argument much weight was placed upon the decision
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in State, ex reZ. Hart, v.
Burke, 33 La. Ann. 498; and it is cited as authority to the
point that no remedy by mandamus exists in the courts of the
State to compel her officers to carry out her engagements; stated,

Oct. 1882?.]

LOUISIANA V.JUMEL.

however, in the opinion as deciding that there is no remedy by
manda8u8 or injunction against the State in its political capacity, a proposition which no one controverts. The case was
similar in its character and objects to those now under consideration. And it was there held that the courts of Louisiana have
no jurisdiction to entertain any judicial proceeding, the object
of which is to enforce the performance of a contract or obligation of the State against her will; that they have no authority
to declare that a provision of her Constitution does not express
her will; and that they cannot annul a provision of that Constitution on the ground that it impairs the obligation of a contract with the State, because such a contract can never become
the subject of judicial enforcement against her will. In these
conclusions the court gave no force to the constitutional inhibition as against the State. It would seem as though it was of
opinion that, in all matters of contract, the inhibition applies
only to legislative action. It says: " We have been referred
to authorities to the effect that where an officer pleads the
authority of an unconstitutional law as a justification for the
non-performance or violation of his duty, this will not prevent
the issue of the writ. 9 Wheat. 859; 16 Wall. 220. This
may be so when the authority invoked is a statute under the
State Constitution; but it is different when the authority is an
article in the Constitution itself." And the court proceeds to
lay down the doctrine that clauses of the State Constitution,
though violative of the Constitution of the United States, express the will of the State, and as such must be respected by
her courts. In thus holding, the court would seem to have
lost sight of two provisions of the Federal Constitution, one,
which declares that "this Constitution and the laws of the
United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof . . .
shall be the supreme law of the land;" and the other, which
declares that " the judges in every State shall be bound
thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to
the contrary notwithstanding." These provisions, which govern in Louisiana as well as in other States, being overlooked,
and the inhibition against the impairment of the obligation of
contracts being limited to legislative action only on the part of
the State, so far as concerns her own contracts, it is not sur-

LOUISIANA V. JUMtEL.

[Sup. Ct.

prising that the court held that the ordinance of repudiation
and shame embodied in the new Constitution was to be obeyed;
that its conflict with the Federal Constitution was to be disregarded, and that what the State was prohibited from doing
should be deemed the legal expression of her will, and enforced
as such. The decision rests upon the theory that a proceeding against the officers of the State to compel them to do their
duty is a suit against the State; and that her consent to a suit
against them has been withdrawn by chuses of the new Constitution. But if those clauses never lawfully became a part
of the new Constitution, - because the State under the Federal Constitution was incapable of enacting them, -then her
consent remains, and the present suits are simply attempts to
compel her officers to do her lawful bidding. The State cannot speak through an enactment which contravenes the Federal Constitution.
There can be no doubt that, but for the Debt Ordinance in
the Constitution of 1879,,a mandamus or other compulsory process could have been issued by the courts of Louisiana to compel officers of the State, and of the board of liquidation, to
execute the provisions of the act of 1874 and of the constitutional amendment of that year. The Code of Procedure of the
State declares that the object of the writ "is to prevent a
denial of justice or the consequence of defective police, and it
should, therefore, be issued in all cases where the law has assigned no relief by the ordinary means, and where justice and
reason require that some mode should exist of redressing a
wrong or an abuse of any nature whatever," sect. 830; and
that "it may be directed to public officers to compel them to
fulfil any of the duties attached to their office, or which may
be legally required of them." Sect. 834. These provisions
are sufficiently comprehensive to embrace the present cases,
and authorize compulsory process against the defendants to
enforce the performance of the duties with which they are
charged under the act and constitutional amendment of 1874.
But independently of them, the constitutional amendment
of 1874 of itself invests the courts of the State with jurisdiction
to issue such process, by the clause which declares that, to secure the levy, collection, and payment stipulated, "the judicial

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

power shall be exercised when necessary," and that means such
power as properly belongs to judicial tribunals, to enforce the
performance by public officers of duties imposed upon them
by law.
In Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, the conditions under
which the writ will be issued are stated as clearly and happily
as anywhere in the reports; and though the case is familiar to
all, some of the observations of the great Chief Justice, who
there spoke for the court, may properly be repeated. The
plaintiff there, as is well known, had been appointed a justice
of the peace for the District of Columbia; his commission was
signed by the President and sealed by the Secretary of State,
but its delivery was refused by a new secretary succeeding to
the one who had signed the commission. The court held that
the plaintiff was entitled to his commission, and to withhold it
was an act not warranted by law, but in violation of a vested
right, and then proceeded to consider whether the laws of the
country gave him a legal remedy. " The very essence of civil
liberty," said Chief Justice Marshall, "certainly consists in
the right of every individual to claim the protection of the
laws whenever he receives an injury. One of the first duties
of government is to afford that protection. In Great Britain
the King himself is sued in the respectful form of a petition,
and he never fails to comply with the judgment of his court."
And again: "The government of the United States has been
emphatically termed a government of laws and not of men. It
will certainly cease to deserve this high appellation, if the laws
furnish no remedy for the violation of a vested legal right. If
this obloquy is to be cast on the jurisprudence of our country,
it must arise from the peculiar character of the case." He
then shows that there was nothing in the character of the case
or the nature of the transaction which exempted it from legal
investigation or prevented the injured party from having redress; and, among other instances, he referred to the act of
Congress of 1794, concerning invalids, as one where the performance of duties imposed upon the heads of departments
might be enforced. "By the act concerning invalids, passed
in June, 1794," he said, "the Secretary of War is ordered to
place on the pension list all persons whose names are contained

744

LoUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

in a report previously made by him to Congress. If he should
refuse to do so, would the wounded veteran be without remedy?
Is it to be contended that when the law in precise terms directs
the performance of an act, in which an individual is interested,
the law is incapable of securing obedience to its mandate ? Is
it on account of the character of the person against whom the
complaint is made? Is it to be contended that the heads of
departments are not amenable to the laws of their country ?
Whatever the practice on particular occasions may be, the
theory of this principle will certainly never be maintained.
No act of the legislature confers so extraordinary a privilege,
nor can it derive countenance from the doctrines of the common law." And again: "If one of the heads of departments
commits any illegal act, under color of his office, by which
an individual sustains an injury, it cannot be pretended that
his office alone exempts him from being sued in the ordinary
mode of proceeding, and being compelled to obey the judgment
of the law. How, then, can this office exempt him from this
particular mode of deciding on the legality of his conduct,
if the case be such a case as would, were any other individual
the party complained of, authorize the process? It is not by
the office of the person to whom the writ is directed, but the
nature of the thing to be done, that the propriety or impropriety of issuing a mandamus is to be determined."
If the act be one which involves discretion, the officer only
conforms to the law in exercising that discretion. If it be one
which calls for the consideration of evidence and the exercise
of judgment, he must be left free to act upon his own conclusions. If, however, the act does not rest in his discretion ; if
it does not call for the exercise of judgment, but is a specific
duty, imposed by law, and ministerial in its character, such
as the delivery of a commission, the issue of a patent, the
drawing of a warrant, or the payment of moneys appropriated
(the subject to which the appropriation is made not calling for
the exercise of judgment in its selection), and individuals have
a direct pecuniary interest in the performance of that duty,the officer is as much subject to the compulsory process of the
judicial tribunals as a private citizen. If it were not so, our
government would cease to be a government of laws, and the

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

obloquy to which Marshall refers would be east on the jurisprudence of the country.
It is not, then, the office of the defendants which can preclude an inquiry into the propriety of calling upon the courts
to enforce the performance of duties imposed by law upon
them. The propriety of issuing the writ must be determined
by the nature of the act to be done; whether it is one which
they, under the law, are required to do.
No interference is sought with the general financial affairs
of the State. These she may manage as she chooses. What
is sought is an injunction to prevent her officers from diverting
to other purposes funds collected for the payment of her creditors, and a direction to them to proceed and carry out her command as to the collection hereafter of the specific tax levied
by herself, and the disbursement of its proceeds. The fact
that she subsequently made an unconstitutional attempt to
rescind that command cannot affect its character or efficacy.
In Woodruff v. Trapnall, 10 How. 190, decided in 1850, this
court enforced a contract of the State of Arkansas in a proceeding by mandamus against one of her officers, compelling
him to receive certain bills in satisfaction of a judgment recovered by the State, in the face of a subsequent statute prohibiting their receipt.
In Hfartman v. Greenlow, 102 U. S. 672, decided only two
years since, this court, with but a single dissenting voice, enforced a contract of the State of Virginia in a proceeding by
mandamus against one of her officers, compelling him to receive coupons of certain bonds for taxes, pursuant to the law
under which the bonds were issued, although a subsequent law
of the State had forbidden their receipt. And the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia has, in similar cases, after mature
consideration, asserted a like authority over officers of the
State, never apparently imagining that the sovereignty of the
Commonwealth was at all assailed by judicial process compelling them to do their duty. The Commonwealth has required
no reminder from a Federal tribunal to awaken her attention to
the invasion of any of her rights of sovereignty.
A number of other cases in this court and in the Circuit
Courts might be cited to the same purport; and if the law re-

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ot.

specting contracts with States, and rights of property acquired
from States, is not to be subject to continual change, that law
should remain undisturbed, having been recognized as sound for
more than a third of a century. The doctrine of stare decisis
is deemed of great importance on questions affecting private
rights. Much more ought it to be respected and resolutely adhered to in determinations touching the limits of the powers
of the Federal and State governments, and the authority of
each over the contracts of States with individuals.
Nor can I perceive in what way the law, as thus pronounced,
encroaches here upon any of the powers of the State. It is
undoubtedly a matter of great importance, indeed of absolute
necessity to wise government in this country, that there should
be no interference with the rights of the States in the management of their local affairs, including in these the collection and
disbursement of their revenues. But if a State contracts to do
certain things, and in order that they may be performed subjects her officers to the control of the courts, and makes their
refusal to carry out her pledges a felony, it cannot be justly
contended that her reserved rights are at all invaded if her
officers axe judicially commanded to do what she says they
shall do. No doctrine is here asserted in conflict with the
exercise of any rightful authority of the State. All that is
claimed is simply a right to compel her officers to obey her own
enactments, such as were constitutionally passed, and thus became laws, and to disregard such as she had no power to pass.
If the State is above the Constitution of the United States; if
the protection of that instrument does not extend to her engagements with individuals; if her power is as absolute as that
of the Parliament of England; if the theory of the Federal
Constitution, that it binds States as well as individuals, is unsound; if it is not, as it declares itself to be, the supreme
law of the land,- then my position falls; but otherwise
least none that I have been able
there is no answer to it -at
to see.
Having a deep conviction that the
opinion of the court is in conflict with the spirit and tenor of
our former decisions, subversive of long-established doctrines,
MR. JUSTICE HARLANI.

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

and dangerous to the national supremacy as defined and limited
by the Constitution, I deem it my duty to dissent from it.
That the bonds and coupons issued by Louisiana, in pursuance of the statute and constitutional amendment of 1874, are
contracts within the meaning of that clause of the Federal
Constitution which declares that no State shall pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts; that the provisions in
its new Constitution known as the "Debt Ordinance" of 1879
were intended to impair, and, if enforced, do impair, the obligation of those contracts; and that such ordinance is therefore
a nullity as against the bondholders who do not accept its
terms, - are propositions so manifestly correct as not to require
argument in their support. Ind~ed, I understand the court,
substantially, to concede themi to be sound. As the Constitution of the United States is the supreme law of the land, "anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary
notwithstanding," I had supposed that all State action, whether
by legislative enactment or constitutional provision, must be
disregarded when in conflict with that law. Yet this court
holds that it cannot enforce or restrain the agents of a State
from destroying the obligation of her contract with a citizen
because such relief will require them, in the discharge of their
official duties, to disobey the orders of what is denominated
the supreme politiealpower of that State. The court, it seems
to me, in effect, adjudges that the defendants cannot be coerced
by the courts of the Union to disregard nullifying enactments
of their State, although such coercion, if employed, would only
be for the purpose of enforcing the rightful authority of the
Constitution. It appears upon the very face of these proceedingrs, and is not to be disguised, that those officers refuse to
perform purely ministerial duties solely because the will of the
State is, with them, paramount, and to be obeyed although
thereby they destroy rights guaranteed by the supreme law of
the land.
To state the proposition in another form: Here are contract rights which, but for the nullifying provisions in the
new Constitution of Louisiana, the courts (as I will presently
show) would unquestionably protect by the process of injunction, and also, if need be, by mandamus compelling the offi-

LoUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

cers of the State to discharge plain official duties which require in their performance no exercise of discretion. Now,
however, it is determined - if I do not misapprehend the decision -that the judicial arm of the nation is hopelessly paralyzed in the presence of an ordinance, destructive of those
rights, and passed in admitted violation of the Constitution of
the United States. A State - which "cannot be viewed as a
single, unconnected, sovereign power," but is a member of the
Union under a Constitution whose supremacy all must acknowledge- assumes to release its officers from the duty of
obeying important provisions of that Constitution; and this
court, it would seem, holds that, in cases like these, it has no
power, as against such hostile State action, to require those officers to respect private rights guaranteed by such provisions.
1. What are the terms of the admitted contract between
Louisiana and the holders of the consolidated bonds?
By the statute of 1874 a fixed annual tax is levied for the
purpose of paying the principal and interest of the bonds authorized to be issued; the revenue therefrom is thereby "set
apart and appropriated to that purpose and no other;" it is
made a felony for any officer to divert it from that purpose;
the interest tax is declared to be a continuing annual tax until
the bonds, principal and interest, are paid or redeemed; the
appropriation is made a continuing annual one during the same
period; and the levy and appropriation, it is declared, shall authorize and make it the duty of the auditor and treasurer, and
the board of liquidation, respectively, to annually collect the
tax, pay the interest, and redeem the bonds, until they are fully
discharged.
Each provision of the act is declared to be a contract between the State and each holder of the bonds; it is made a
misdemeanor.for any judge, tax-collector, or other officer to obstruct the execution of any part of it, or to fail to perform his
official duty; tax-collectors are inhibited from paying over
moneys so collected to any other person than the State treasurer; and it is provided that no court or judge of the State
shall have power to enjoin the payment of principal or interest
of the bonds or the collection of the special tax therefor.
These provisions were embodied in the Constitution of Lou-

Oct. 1882.]

LoUISIANA

V. JUDIEL.

isiana, by an amendment adopted in 1874; and with a view of
facilitating the sale of the bonds, provided for in the act of that
year, it declares that such issue creates "a valid contract between the State and each and every holder of said bonds, which
the State shall by no means and in no wise impair;" that "no
court shall enjoin the payment of the principal or interest
thereof or the levy and collection of the taxes therefor;" that
"to secure such levy, collection, and payment, the judicial power
shall be exercised when necessary; " that the tax required for
the payment of the principal and interest of such bonds "shall
be assessed and collected each and every year until the bonds
shall be paid, principal and interest, and the proceeds paid by
the treasurer of the State to the holders of said bonds, as the
principal and interest of the same shall fall due; and, lastly,
"that no further legislation or appropriation shall be requisite
for the said assessment and collection, and for such payment
from the treasury."
With these statutory and constitutional provisions in force,
the State issued bonds to the amount of about $12,000,000,
and taxes were assessed, collected, and paid over to the State
treasurer solely for the purpose of meeting their interest. Of
the amount collected to pay coupons maturing Jan. 1, 1880,
about $300,000 are in the State treasury. The State officers
refuse to apply the money for that purpose or to take any steps
toward further collections as enjoined by the statute and Constitution of 1874.
2. What has the State done that impairs the obligation of
her contracts?
By her Debt Ordinance the coupons falling due the 1st of
January, 1830, are "remitted" without the consent of creditors, and the interest tax already collected is therein directed
to be used exclusively for the payment of the eTxpenses of the
State government. Unless the holders of consolidated bonds
are paid out of this money, raised for their benefit exclusively,
and unless future collections are made as required by the contract, they will be wholly without remedy, and their bonds will
cease to have any value. Plainly that ordinance is a breach of
the plighted faith of the State. The financial world, as we have
seen, was assured by legislative enactment and constitutional

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

provision that what the State officers now propose to do should
never be done; that those who took the bonds might rely upon
a fixed annual levy to meet the principal and interest; that all
money thereby raised should be applied exclusively to that
purpose; and that not only the officers of the State should
assess, collect, and pay as it stipulated, but that the power of
the judiciary should be exercised, whenever necessary, to enforce the obligation of the contract. These laws, in their substantial provisions, are as binding on the State, and are as much
a part of the contract, as if those provisions had been therein
expressly set forth. Bronson v.'Kinzie, 1 How. 311; MeCracken
v. Hayward, 2 id. 608; Planters' Bank v. Sharp, 6 id. 301;
Walker v. Tf7itehead, 16 Wall. 314; Edwards v. Yearzeyj, 96
U. S. 595; Louisiana v. New Orleans, 102 id. 203.
The State has no more right by law to impair the obligation of its contracts than it has, by law, to impair the obligation of contracts between individuals. In State of New Jersey
v. Wilson, the language of the court, speaking by Chief Justice
Marshall, is: "In the case of Fletcher v. Peck it was decided
in this court, on solemn argument and with much deliberation, that this provision of the Constitution [the contract
clause] extends to contracts to which a State is a party, as
well as to contracts between individuals." 7 Cranch, 164, 166.
It is the settled doctrine of this court that contracts with States
are as fully protected by the Constitution against impairment
by State' legislation as contracts between individuals. Green
v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1 ; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514;
Woodruff v. Trapnall, 10 How. 190; Wolff v. New Orleans,
103 U. S. 358.
3. If the Debt Ordinance of Louisiana is in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, and, therefore, a nullity as
against the holders of consolidated bonds, -if the latter are
entitled by the terms of their contract to be paid out of the
moneys collected for their benefit and to have further collections made, - is there any mode, known to the law, by which
their rights can be protected? My brethren of the majority
answer this question in the negative when they adjudge that
no relief whatever can be given in either of these suits. One
is a suit in equity commenced in the Circuit Court of the

Oct 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUEEL.

United States by holders of consolidated bonds to prevent, by
injunction, officers of the State from using the proceeds of
taxes already raised under the statute and Constitution of 1874,
for any purpose other than that for which they were collected
and paid to the State treasurer. In the other suit, the plaintiffs, holders of consolidated bonds, and citizens of New York,
ask a mandamus against the State officers compelling the application of the moneys so collected to the payment of their coupons, and also the collection of taxes to meet future interest
as it becomes due.
Some comment is made upon the extended nature of the relief asked by plaintiffs. It is sufficient to remark that the
court is never bound to give relief to the full extent demanded;
and all relief is not to be denied because more is asked than
the court will grant under any circumstances, or in the particular case. And there is no ground, I submit, for the suggestion
that granting relief would require the administration, by the
court, of the general finances of the State. What should be
done, if properly it may be, is, by necessary orders, to prevent
the officers of the State from depriving creditors of moneys
which by express contract have been set apart and appropriated
exclusively to the payment of their claims. There is no obstacle to the payment out of that fund, except the prohibition in
the void Debt Ordinance of 1879. It is distinctly admitted
to be easily ascertainable from the accounts how much of the
money in the treasury is applicable to this class of debts.
Indeed, it appears from the opinion in New man v. Burke,
hereafter referred to, that the treasurer and fiscal agent of
Louisiana held within their control, when these suits were
commenced, all the moneys raised under the statute and Constitution of 1874 to meet the interest falling due Jan. 1, 1880.
They have, in their hands, more than enough to pay the coupons of Jan. 1, 1880, held by the parties now before the court.
Further,- a fact most significant in view of the suggestion that
these moneys are mingled with other moneys in the State
treasury, - the interest fund created to pay coupons maturing Jan. 1, 1880, were, by an act of the General Assembly of
Louisiana, approved Jan. 4, 1882, directed to be invested in
United States bonds. Acts La. 1881, p. 50. And it is not pre-

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

tended that payment from that fund will produce the slightest
confusion in the treasurer's accounts, or involve the use of
moneys raised for other and distinct purposes. If any confusion ensuesfrom such an application of these moneys, it would
be only of that kind which arises when the law prevents a repudiating debtor from misappropriating funds, in his hands,
that have been dedicated to a specific purpose.
It is apparently urged, as an obstacle in the way of relief,
that plaintiffs do not seek to have the proceeds of these taxes
applied specially to the payment of their claims, but ask such
orders as will enable all holders of consolidated bonds to participate in the distribution of the moneys raised under the statute and Constitution of 1874. Had the suit for a mandamus
sought the application of the moneys solely to the payment of
coupons held by the plaintiffs, it might, perhaps, have been
urged as ground for its refusal, that each bondholder had an
interest in the fund so created. State, ex rel. Boyer, v. State
Treasurer, 32 La. Ann. 177. If the relief asked cannot be
given for the benefit of all holders of consolidated bonds,
there would seem to be no difficulty in restricting payments
to such as are actually before the court in person or by representation. It is, however, proper to say that, notwithstanding
the criticisms made by the court upon the nature and extent
of the relief asked, I do not feel authorized to infer from its
opinion that relief would be given to the parties before it, had
they asked payment only of their coupons. The opinion seems
to proceed upon the broad ground that, as Louisiana is not
directly suable in its corporate capacity, the courts of the
Union cannot reach its agents employed, under its orders, in
the work of destroying the contract rights of the plaintiffs.
4. Are these suits forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment of
the Federal Constitution, which declares that the judicial power
of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit
in law or equity commenced or prosecuted against one of the
United States by citizens of another State? I understand the
court, in effect, if not in terms, to hold that they cannot be
maintained without violating that amendment.,
The first authority cited in support of that view is Reg. v.
Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, Law Rep. 7 Q. B. 887.

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

It appears that by an act of Parliament a round sum was appropriated to the Crown to be used in paying costs incurred in
prosecutions at assizes and quarter sessions in England, formerly paid out of county rates. Bills of costs having been
passed by local officers, certain items were' disallowed and
others reduced by the Lords of the Treasury. Subsequently a
rule went against the latter to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not issue compelling them to pay these bills out
of the funds appropriated to the Crown for such purposes. The
judges, although of opinion that the defendants should be
governed by the taxation of the local officers, declined to grant
the writ. Cockburn, C. J., said: "The question comes to be,
whether the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, when this
money gets into their hands, are bound to apply it as servants
of the Crown, or as the servants of Parliament who vote the
money." Blackburn, J., said: "The question remains, whether
there is any statutable obligation cast upon the Lords of the
Treasury to do what we are asked to compel them to do by
mandamus, namely, to issue a minute to pay that money; because it seems to me clear that we have a right to grant a mandamus if there is such a statutory obligation, particularly when
the application is made on behalf of persons who have a direct
interest in the matter." Similar declarations were made by
the other judges. They all concurred in denying the writ upon
the ground that the money was voted, not to named officers to
be by them applied to a designated purpose, but as "a supply
to the Crown;" that the officers who distributed it for the
purposes named acted as servants of the Crown, not as servants of Parliament; that a suit against those officers was,
therefore, one against the sovereign, whom, said Chief Justice
Cockburn, the Court of Queen's Bench had no power, even in
appearance, to command.
It seems to me that case furnishes no support for the suggestion that these are suits against the State, simply because
they are brought against its officers. It does not conflict with
the proposition that the State treasurer can be compelled. to
apply the proceeds of these taxes as stipulated in the statute
and Constitution of 1874, which were his sole authority to receive them. Here there is a statutable obligation upon him to
voL. XVIL

48

LOUISIANA V. JUtMEL.

[Sup. Or.

pay the coupons as they matured. And to that is added the
obligation imposed by that Constitution, which, in terms, declares that the proceeds of taxes collected under the act of that
year "shall be paid by the treasurer of the State to the holders
of said bonds, as the principal and interest of the same shall
fall due," without further legislative authority. These obligations remain upon that officer, unless it be that the Debt Ordinance, although unconstitutional and void, has discharged them.
Had Parliament, instead of the act involved in the case cited,
passed one directly imposing upon the defendants the duty of
paying out of moneys appropriated for that purpose a certain
class of claims, it is manifest that the Court of Queen's Bench
would have compelled them, by mandamus or other process, to
perform that duty. In th6 case supposed there would have
been a statutable obligation which the court would not have permitted the defendants to evade on the pretext that they were
officers of the Crown.
This distinction is well illustrated in Grenville-Murray v.
Earl of Clarendon, Law Rep. 9 Eq. 11. There the plaintiff
sought a decree for the value of diplomatic services alleged to
have been rendered by him. He claimed that he was entitled
to be paid out of certain money voted by Parliament to the
Foreign Office. Lord Romilly, M. R., said: "It [the money
so voted] is not paid in trust for any particular person. The
case that was cited was to this effect: that if Parliament votes
a sum of X1,000 to John Smith, and the treasury devote in
their books the payment of that sum to other purposes, then a
mandamus will lie to the treasury in order to pay that 1,000
to John Smith. But there is nothing of the sort here. Parliament has merely voted certain sums to her Majesty, and of
these sums 600,000 are to be applied to the Foreign Office.
The distribution of that amount is left to the officers of the
Foreign Office to apply in such a manner as is most subservient
to her Majesty's service and to the due support of the Foreign
Office, and there is nothing whatever to connect the plaintiff
with a penny of this money in any aspect. It is impossible for
me, therefore, in that state of things, to say that there is any
trust for him."
I refer also to Rex v. Lords Commissioners of the Treas-

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

ury, 4 Ad. & El. 286. That was an application for a mandamus against the defendants, who had authority by statute to
grant a certain "superannuation allowance." Sir J. Campbell, attorney-general, contended that it was against principle
that the court should order a mandamus in the name of the
King, directing the King to pay money. But the mandamus
was granted. Lord Denman, C. J., said: " If, then, this is
only the case of public officers having the control of a sum of
money for this particular purpose, there is no reason that a
mandamus should not issue. They are officers under the
Crown ; but the Crown has no more to do with thdm for this
purpose than any other officers. They are merely parties who
have received a sum of money as trustees for an individual
under the provisions of an act of Parliament. . . . Here it only
appears that a sum of money has been voted as an allowance
to an individual, which sum they have, and refuse to pay."
There is another consideration which strengthens this position,
that is, the supremacy of the Constitution of the United States
over State constitutions and State laws. To the duty imposed
by the statute and Constitution of 1874 upon its officers there
is superadded the duty imposed by the fundamental law of the
land not to regard as binding any State enactment which
impairs the obligation of contracts.
If the case cited from the Queen's Bench were susceptible
of the construction put upon it by this court, it should not
have controlling influence.
Here no such relations exist
between the executive and judicial departments as exist in
England between the Crown and the courts. This was shown
in the elaborate opinion of MNr. Justice Miller, speaking for
the court in United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196. That was
ejectment to recover real estate, in the actual possession of
officers who claimed it, not in any personal right, but for the
United States, - property used and occupied as a cemetery
for dead soldiers of the Union. It was contended that a suit
against the officers, having for its object to disturb their
possession, was a suit against the government. In support of
that position numerous cases were cited from the English
courts, which held that a suit could not be maintained against
officers of the Crown.
But we held that upon such a question

LOUISIANA V. JUbIEL.

[Sup.

Ct.

but little weight should be given to those adjudications; that
there is a -vast difference in the essential character of the two
governments in reference to the source and depositaries of
power; that while in England the Crown, the fountain of
honor, cannot be disturbed in its possession of property by
process directed against its officers or agents, "under our
system the people, who are there subjects, are sovereign;"
that" their rights, whether collective or individual, are not
bound to give way to a sentiment of loyalty to the person
of the monarch;" that "the citizen here knows no person,
however near to those in power, or however powerful in
himself, to whom he need yield the rights which the law
secures to him when it is well administered;" that, "when
he, in one of the courts of competent jurisdiction, has established his' right of property, there is no reason why deference
to any person, natural or artificial, not even the United States,
should prevent him from using the means which the law
gives him for the protection and ehforcement of that-right."
Said the court further, in that case: "No man in this country
is so high that he is above the law. No officer of the law may
set that law at defiance with impunity. All the officers of
the government, from the highest to the lowest, are creatures
of the law, and are bound to obey it. It is the only supreme
power in our system of government, and every man who, by
accepting office, participates in its functions, is only the more
strongly bound to submit to that supremacy, and to observe
the limitations which it imposes upon the exercise of the
authority which it gives."
In that case the court reaffirms the doctrines of Osborn v.
Banc of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738. The latter was
a suit to recover moneys, which officers of the State of
Ohio, in conformity with its statutes, had illegally taken from
a bank' of ,the United States. The suit being against the
offic6rs of the State, the objection was taken that it could
not be sustained without the State itself being a party; that
the State could not be sued; consequently, it was argued,
the relief prayed -the restoration of the money - could not
But to that objection the court, speaking by
be granted.
Chief Justice Marshall,- and this language is quoted ap-

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

provingly in United States v. Lee, - said: " If the State
of Ohio could have been made a party defendant, it can
scarcely be denied that this would be a strong case for an
injunction. The objection is, that as the real party cannot
be brought before the court, a suit cannot be sustained against
the agents of that party; and cases have been cited to show
that a court of chancery will not make a decree unless all
those who are substantially interested be made parties to
the suit. This is certainly true where it is in the power of the
plaintiff to make them parties; but if the person who is the
real principal, the person who is the true source of the mischief, by whose power and for whose advantage it is done,
be himself above the law, be exempt from all judicial process, it would be subversive of the best-established principles to say that the laws could not afford the same remedies
against the agent employed in doing the wrong, which they
would afford against him could his principal be joined in the
suit."
The decision in that case has not been heretofore questioned
in this court. It seems to establish, upon grounds which cannot well be shaken, that a suit against State officers, to prevent
a threatened wrong to the injury of the citizen, is not necessarily a suit against the State within the meaning of the Eleventh
Amendment of the Constitution; for, said Chief Justice Marshall, "the Eleventh Amendment, which restrains the jurisdiction granted by the Constitution over suits against States, is,
of necessity, limited to those suits in which a State is a party
to the record." Here, the State is not a party to the record.
Here, officers of Louisiana only are parties defendants; and the
relief asked is that they be required to perform purely ministerial duties imposed upon them by the statute and Constitution of 1874, whose provisions, as respects the matters now in
issue, are still in force and obligatory, because never affected,
modified, or repealed, otherwise than by a debt ordinance, subsequently adopted, conceded to be in conflict with the Constitution, and, therefore, absolutely void.
There are other decisions of this court still more directly in
point. The leading one is Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203. In
that case it appears that the State of Texas made a grant of

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

lands to a railroad company, upon the basis of which bonds were
issued known as land-grant mortgage bonds. They were sold
in large numbers in this country and Europe. Subsequently
the State, by provisions of its statutes and Constitution, attempted to repudiate and nullify jts contract; and, in pursuance
thereof, its officers proposed to issue patents to others for a part
of the lands embraced in this grant. Thereupon a suit in equity
was instituted in the Circuit Court of the United States against
the Governor and the Commissioner of the General Land-Office
of Texas, to prevent them from issuing patents for the lands
or aily part of them. The State was, of course, not made a
party on the record. The bill was demurred to upon the
ground that she could not be sued, and that the suit, being
against her officers, was one, within the meaning of the Constitution, against her. The demurrer was overruled, and the
relief asked was given.
Touching the question of jurisdiction, the court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Swayne, stated these principles as having been
announced in Osborn v. Bank of the United States. 1. A Circuit Court of the United States, in a proper case in equity,
may enjoin a State officer from executing a State law in conflict with the Constitution, or a statute of the United States,
when such execution will violate the rights of the complainant.
2. Where the State is concerned, the State should be made a
party, if it could be done. That it cannot be done is a sufficient reason for the omission to do it, and the court may proceed to decree against the officers of the State in all respects as
if the State were a party to the record. 3. In deciding who
are parties to the suit, the court will not look beyond the record. Making a State officer a party does not make the State
a party, although her laws prompt his action, and the State
stands behind him as the real party in interest. p. 220. It
was in conformity with those doctrines that the relief asked
was given. See also Fattier v. Ilnde, 7 Pet. 252; Louisville
Railroad Co. v. Letson, 2 How. 497; 2 Story's Const., sect.
1685; 1 Kent, Com. 351.
In part upon the authority of Davis v. Gray and Osborn v.
Bank of the United States, this court, in Board of Liquidation
v. lecComb, 92 U. S. 581, 541, maintained the right of a holder

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

of consolidated bonds to a decree against the officers of the
State of Louisiana, who are here defendants, constituting the
board of liquidation, preventing the use of such bonds for
the payment of a debt due from the State to a levee company.
The proposed action of the board was based upon a statute
passed March 2, 1875. So that the suit had for its object to
prevent State officers, charged with the execution of the latter
act, from carrying out its provisions. It never occurred to this
court that the suit was, for that reason, one against the State
within the meaning of the Constitution. Upon the general
question, whether the defendants, being officers of the State,
were amenable to process from a Federal court, Mr. Justice
Bradley, speaking for this court, observed: " On this branch of
the subject the numerous and well-considered cases heretofore
decided by this court leave little to be said. The objections to
proceeding against State officers by mandamus or injunction
are: first, that it is, in effect, proceeding against the State
itself; and, secondly, that it interferes with the official discretion vested in the officers. It is conceded that neither of these
things can be done. A State, without its consent, cannot be
sued by an individual; and a court cannot substitute its own
discretion for that of executive officers in matters belonging to
the proper jurisdiction of the latter. But it has been well
settled, that when a plain official duty, requiring no exercise of
discretion, is to be performed, and performance is refused, any
person who will sustain personal injury by such refusal may
have a nandamus to compel its performance; and when such
duty is threatened to be violated by some positive official act,
any person who will sustain personal injury thereby, for which
adequate compensation cannot be had at law, may have an injunction to prevent it. In such case, the writs of mandamus
and injunction are somewhat correlative to each other. In
either case, if the officer plead the authority of an unconstitutional law for the non-performance or violation of his duty, it
will not prevent the issuing of the writ. An unconstitutional
law will be treated by the courts as null and void." Upon
these grounds, the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed, so
far as it prohibited the debt due the levee company from
being funded in consolidated bonds. Such use of them was

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

deemed an impairment of the contract rights of those who
were entitled to receive them.
It seems to me impossible, in view of our decision in that
case, apart from previous decisions upon which it was founded,
to hold that these suits are forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment of the Federal Constitution. We have adjudged that
there is power in the courts of the Union, in a suit by an individual against State officers, to prevent them - in execution of
an unconstitutional statute- from using these consolidated
bonds for purposes inconsistent with the contract under which
they were issued. In these cases, it is determined that those
courts are powerless, in suits against such officers, to prevent
the misapplication of moneys collected for the purpose of meeting the interest on those bonds; and this, in part, upon the
ground that the relief asked will require the officers, who have
charge of those moneys, to disregard the confessedly void orders
of the supreme political power of the State.
It may be asked, When before has this court found the unconstitutional mandate of a State to be an obstacle in the way of
compelling her officers to respect rights of contract, the obligation of which is protected against impairment by any law of
the State? Of what value is the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution if it cannot be enforced against hostile provisions
of a State Constitution? This court said, in -Dodgev. Woolsey, 18
How. 331, 860, that "a change of constitution cannot release
a State from contracts made under a constitution which permits them to be made;" in Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly,
1 Black, 486, 448, that a contract between Ohio and a bank in
that State "was entitled to the protection of the Constitution
of the United States against any law of Ohio impairing its
obligation; " in Railroad Company v. McClure, 10 Wall. 511,
515, that "the Constitution of a State is undoubtedly a law,"
within the meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution,
and that "a State can no more do what is thus forbidden by
one than by the other, -there is the same impediment in the
way of both;" in White v. Hart, 18 id. 646, 652, that "it is
well settled by the adjudications of this court that a State can
no more impair the obligation of a contract by adopting a constitution than by passing a law, -in the eye of the constitu-

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

tional inhibition they are substantially the same thing;" and
in Gunn v. Barry, 15 Wall. 610, 623, that the Constitution of
the United States "is aboye and beyond the power of Congress
and the States, and is alike obligatory upon both ; a State can
no more impair an existing contract by a constitutional provision than by a legislative act; both are within the prohibition
of the National Constitution." Why should these established
doctrines of the court be overruled, as, for all practical purposes, they are, by the judgment this day rendered? The Constitution declares that it shall be the supreme law of the land,
"anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the
contrary notwithstanding." Its mandate, in that respect, is
addressed alike to the judges of the Federal and State courts,
for it declares that "the judges in every State shall be bound
thereby." And, as is said in -Dodgev. Woolsey, "to make its
supremacy more complete, impressive, and practical, that there
should be no escape from its operation, and that its binding
force upon the States and the members df Congress should be
unmistakable, it is declared that "the senators and representatives, before mentioned, and the members of the several
State legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers, both
of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound
by oath or affirmation to support this Constitution."
Nor, if the relief here asked be granted, can I agree that the
officers of the State cannot be protected against her subsequent
action. If proceeded against because of their compliance with
the judgments of the courts of the Union, the suit can ultimately be brought here for review, where no one will be per-.
mitted to suffer because of his obedience to the supreme law
of the land.
Upon the general question of the power of the Circuit Court
to grant a mandamus against State officers, there are some propositions announced by the court which should be examined.
The fact is mentioned that the coupons held by plaintiffs have
not been reduced to judgment, and it is said that the Circuit
Court, in exercising its original jurisdiction, can ordinarily grant
a writ of mandamus only in aid of some existing jurisdiction.
As the State cannot be sued as a party defendant, to say that a
judgment for the amount of the coupons is a condition prece-

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. t

dent to a mandamus is only another form of saying that there
is no remedy whatever to prevent the misapplication of the
moneys raised under the contract and by virtue of the statute
and Constitution of 1874. The demands of the plaintiffs are
not disputed, except upon the ground that the Debt Ordinance
has assumed, without the consent of the State's creditors, to
remit the interest falling due Jan. 1, 1880, and to divert the
funds raised to meet it. The genuineness of the bonds and
coupons is not questioned. The case, therefore, comes within
the rule, explicitly laid down in McComb's and other cases,
that mandamus will lie to compel the performance by a public
officer of a plain ministerial duty, requiring no exercise of discretion. Such a remedy is absolutely essential for the protection
of the rights here claimed.
Upon this question, reference is made by the court to Bath
County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 244, and Davenport v. County of
Dodge, 105 U. S. 237. In the first of those cases it was decided that the Circuit Court had no power, under the act of
1789, to issue a writ of mandamus except where necessary or
ancillary to the exercise of its jurisdiction. And that doctrine
was reaffirmed in Davenport v. County of Dodge, upon the
authority of Bath County v. Amy, but without any question
being raised in the former case as to the power of the Circuit
Court to issue writs of mandamus since the passage of the act
of March 3, 1875, c. 137. It will be found that the decision in
Bath County v. Amy was based upon Melntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch,
c1cClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598; and Kendall v.
504;
United States, 12 Pet. 524.
In lfelntire v. Wood, the Circuit Court was held to have
authority to issue such writs only when necessary to the exercise of its jurisdiction. But it was said: "Had the 11th
section of the Judiciary Act [the one declaring what suits shall
be within the original cognizance of Circuit Courts] covered
the whole ground of the Constitution, there would be much
reason for exercising this power in many cases wherein some
ministerial act is necessary to the completion of an individual
right arising under the laws of the United States, and the 14th
section of the same act would sanction the issuing of the writ
for such a purpose. But although the judicial power of the

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

United States extends to cases arising under the laws of the
United States, the legislature have not thought proper to
delegate the exercise of that power to its Circuit Courts except in certain specified cases."
In Kendall v. United States, the previous cases were held to
decide that the writ was appropriate to compel the performance of a ministerial act, necessary to the completion of an
individual right arising under the laws of the United States.
In all the cases prior to Bath County v. Amy, the want of
power in the Circuit Court to issue the writ, in the first instance, and in advance of a judgment, establishing the rights
of the parties, was put distinctly upon the ground that the
whole judicial power of the United States had not been delegated to the Circuit Courts. In Kendall's case, however, the
power of the Circuit Court in the District of Columbia, to
compel the Postmaster-General by mandamus to perform a
duty enjoined by an act of Congress, was sustained because,
differently from the Circuit Courts in the several States, its
jurisdiction then extended to all cases in law or equity arising
under the laws of the United States. Now, it is apparent that
the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, supplies what in .tcintire v.
Wood and McClung v. Silliman was said to be wanting. It
substantially "covers the whole ground of the Constitution."
It invests the Circuit Courts with original jurisdiction, and
with jurisdiction by removal from the State courts, of all suits
at law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of costs, the sum or value of $500, arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made, or
which shall be made, under their authority; or in which the
United States are plaintiffs or petitioners ; or in which there is
a controversy between citizens of different States ; or a controversy between citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens, or
subjects; or a controversy between citizens of the same State
claiming lands under grants of different States.
It seems to me entirely clear that since the act of March 3,
1875, e. 137, enlarged the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts,
they have power, in the first instance, and in advance of a
judgment to issue a mandamus, to compel the performance of
purely ministerial acts, which require no exercise of discretion,

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. Ct.

and are necessary to the protection or completion of an individual right arising under the Constitution or the laws of the
United States. Unless the Circuit Court can, by injunction,
prevent the State officers from doing what they propose to do,
and, by mandamus, compel them to perform the ministerial acts
enjoined by the statute and Constitution of 1874, then its new
and enlarged jurisdiction is of no practical value in any case
where a State determines to repudiate its contracts and to
enforce ordinances impairing their obligation. The power has
always existed in those courts to issue such writs, not specifically provided by statute, as ".may be necessary for the exer
cise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the usages
and principles of law." 1 Stat. 81, 334; Rev. Stat., sect. 716.
Jurisdiction to hear and determine a suit arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States carries with it the
power to issue either a mandamus or an injunction, or both,
when essential to the protection and enforcement of the rights
involved. In such cases the writ is, in every legal sense, not
simply necessary, but vital to the exercise of the jurisdiction
granted.
It must also be observed that the mandamus suitwas commenced in an inferior court of the State, and thence removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States. If the power of
the latter depended upon the question whether the State court
could, by mandamus, compel a State officer to perform plain
official duties imposed by law, the writ should be awarded.
This court, I submit with great confidence, is in error if it
means to say that State, ex rel. Hart,v. Burke, 33 La. Ann. 498,
decides, or that the Supreme Court of Louisiana has ever
decided, that the courts of that State cannot, under any circumstances, compel her officers, by mandamus, to perform plain
official duties requiring no discretion. The State Code of Procedure expressly declares that the writ "may be directed to
public officers to compel them to fulfil any of the duties
attached to their office, or which may be legally required of
them." Sect. 834. It is,) think, clear that but for the Debt
Ordinance the court would have sustained the writ in that
case, and compelled the officers to obey the statute and Constitution of 1874. What the court adjudged was that while an

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

officer could not plead the authority of an unconstitutional
statute as a justification for the non-performance or the viola,
tion of his duty, it was different where the authority is an
article in the State Constitution. Upon that ground alone the
writ was refused.
That I do not misinterpret that case is clear from Newman
v. Burke, determined in April, 1882. Newman, holding warrants on the general fund of the State for 1880 and 1881,
claimed that by virtue of the Debt Ordinance he was entitled to be paid out of moneys in the hands of State officers,
collected under the statute and Constitution of 1874, and by
that ordinance directed to be transferred to the general fund.
He obtained by the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State an order for a mandamus against the State treasurer and
fiscal agent, directing them to conform their books to the requirements of the Debt Ordinance, subject, however, to the
right and duty of those officers "to retain in statu quo so much
of the fund in controversy as may be necessary to satisfy the
pending claims of S. J. Hart and John Elliott et at., . . . in
case judgment should be rendered in their favor in the judicial proceedings instituted by them, and now pending in the
Thus, it seems that
Supreme Court of the United States."
those officers, with the approval of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, only await the final determination of these suits to
ascertain whether they will be permitted to execute a State
ordinance in conflict with the Federal Constitution.
The State court, affirming the doctrines of State, ex rel.
Hart, v. Burke, said: "Inasmuch as no court can ever acquire
jurisdiction over a State, or to enforce a contract of a State
against her will, it follows that no court can ever have power
to decree the invalidity of any provision of the State Constitution on the ground that it impairs the obligation of such a contract. But unless the court may decree the nullity of such a
provision, on such a ground, it follows that it cannot compel
the officers of the State to do anything in violation thereof,
because the Constitution of the State is their exclusive mandate
and absolutely binding on them."
This language needs no interpretation. While the Federal
Constitution declares that it shall be the supreme law of the

LOUISIANA V. JUhEL.

[Sup. Or.

land, anything in the Constitution of any State to the contrary
notwithstanding, the Supreme Court of Louisiana holds that,
in the matter of State contracts, her Constitution is the exclusive mandate to her officers, and absolutely binding upon them,
anything in the Constitution of the United States to the contrary notwithstanding. And I take leave to say, with all
respect for my brethren, that the decision this day rendered
can be sustained upon no other ground than that taken by the
State court. But in vain has this court repeatedly adjudged
that a suit against the officers of a State to enforce the performance of plain official duties is not, necessarily, one against
the State within the meaning of that Constitution; in vain has
it often decided that contracts with States are as fully protected by that Constitution as are those between individuals,
and that a State can no more impair an existing contract by
constitutional provision than by legislative act; in vain have
the Circuit Courts of the United .States been invested with
jurisdiction of all suits arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States; in vain does that Constitution
declare that it shall be the supreme law of the land, binding
upon the judges in every State, -if it be true, as determined
by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, that no court can ever have
power either to decree a provision of a State Constitution invalid on the ground that it impairs the obligation of contracts
with that State, or to compel State officers to disregard such
invalid provision.
As further evidence that the State court recognizes the right
to a mandamus compelling State officers to discharge ministerial
duties, imposed by provisions of the Debt Ordinance, I refer to
v. Burke, 83 La. Ann. 969. Ecuyer was the
State, ex re. -ecufyer,
owner of certain consolidated bonds, issued under the act of 1874.
He concluded to accept the provisions of the Debt Ordinance of
1879, and, in conformity therewith, applied to the State treasurer to have his bonds stamped, so as to show that he acceded
to the reduction of interest made by that ordinance. That
officer declining to comply with this request, an application
was made to an inferior State court to compel him to stamp
them. His refusal to comply with the relator's demands was
based in part upon a statute passed in 1880 (after the debt

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

ordinance went into operation), which declares that no bond
shall be stamped until the coupon of January, 1880, is surrendered. That the relator did not do. A mandamus was refused; but the Supreme Court, after deciding that the act of
1880 was inoperative, because in conflict with the Debt Ordinance, said: "In his answer, defendant alleges that the service
required of him by relator is not a ministerial duty, and that
the judiciary has no control over the executive and co-ordinate
branches of the government, except as regards purely ministerial
duties of executive officers. As regards the first proposition,
we decide that the service required in this case is the performance of a purely ministerial duty, and this is too plain to require argument. As to the second proposition, it is elementary;
but while fully recognizing the independence and all the rights
of the co-ordinate branches of the government, it is only necessary to say that it is the province and duty of the judiciary,
whenever the question is properly brought before it in judicial
proceedings, to decide whether duties sought to be enforced at
the hands of officers are or are not ministerial, and that it is of
the essence of the judiciary to adjudge such questions, as otherwise those officers would themselves, by their own decision, be
judges of their legal and constitutional powers." The judgment
of the lower court was reversed, and the miandamus ordered to
be issued, at the costs of the State treasurer in both courts.
Thus it is shown that the same court which determined State,
ex rel. Hart, v. Burke has decided that the courts of Louisiana
have power, by mandamus, to compel an officer of the State
to discharge ministerial duties, requiring in their performance
no discretion upon his part; especially when necessary to enforce a provision in the State Constitution in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States.
It would seem, then, that holders of the consolidated bonds
of Louisiana are in this anomalous condition: While her courts,
because of the Debt Ordinance in the new Constitution, will
not, by mandamus, compel her officers to perform the purely
ministerial duties imposed by the statute and Constitution of
1874, but will, by using that writ, require those officers to execute the provisions of that ordinance, although it is confessedly
in conflict with the Federal Constitution, the courts of the

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

[Sup. C .

United States, though now invested with jurisdiction of all
suits arising under the Constitution and the laws of the United
States, are, according to the present decision, without power to
compel those officers to respect the inhibition in the supreme
law of the land against State laws impairing the obligation of
contracts. Such are the results which follow from the action of
the "supreme political power" of a State whose officers, sworn
to support the Constitution of the United States, are required
by the State court, and now permitted by this court, to regard
the State Constitution as their "exclusive mandate and absolutely binding on them."
My own conclusions are:That the officers of Louisiana cannot rightfully execute provisions of its Constitution which conflict with the supreme law
of the land, and the courts of the Union should not permit them
to do so;
That but for the adoption of the unconstitutional Debt Ordinance of 1879, and whether the suits were in a State court or
in the Circuit Court of the United States, these State officers
would have been restrained by injunction from diverting the
funds collected to meet the interest on the consolidated bonds,
and would have been compelled, by mandamus, to perform the
purely ministerial duties enjoined by the statute and Constitution of 1874;
That if by existing laws the Circuit Court of the United
States has no power to issue such writs, still, upon the removal
of the mandamus suit from the State court, the former had
power to do what the State court could legally have done bad
there been no removal, viz., make peremptory the alternative
mandamus granted at the beginning of the suit by the inferior
State court ;
That the Debt Ordinance, being void because in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, furnishes no reason whatever - least of all in the courts of the Union - why the relief
asked should not be granted by any court of proper jurisdiction
as to parties;
That to refuse relief because of the command of a State to its
officers to do that which is forbidden, and refrain from doing
that which is enjoined, by the supreme law of the land; or to

Oct. 1882.]

ANTONI v. GREENHOW.

give effect, for any purpose, in the courts of the Union, to the
orders of the supreme political power of a State, made in defiance of the Constitution of the United States, is, practically,
to announce that, so far as judicial action is concerned, a State
may, by nullifying provisions in its fundamental law, destroy
rights of contract, the obligation of which the Constitution
declares shall not be impaired by any State law. To such a
doctrine I can never give my assent.
I am, therefore, unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of the court.

ANTONI v. GREENHOW.
1. By issuing, pursuant to her "funding act" of March 30, 1871, her bonds with
interest coupons thereto attached, the State of Virginia entered into a valid
contract with every holder of the coupons, whereby she bound herself to
receive them at and after their maturity for all taxes and demands due the
State. So much of any enactment as forbids the receipt of the coupons
for such taxes and demands impairs the obligation of the contract, and is
void.
2. When the coupons were issued, the holder of them could, by the then existing
law of the'State, as interpreted by her court of last resort, enforce his right
under the contract by suing out of that court a mandamus compelling the
receipt of them by the proper tax-collector, who had refused to accept them
when duly offered in payment of State taxes; and the plaintiff, if'on the
return to the writ judgment was rendered in his favor, could furthermore
recover his costs with such damages as a jury might assess, and have forthwith a peremptory writ. By sect. 4 of an act passed Jan. 14, 1882, post, p.
771, when in such a case a mandamus is prayed for against the collector, the
law imposes upon him as a duty to answer that he is ready to receive the
offered coupon as soon as it shall be ascertained to be genuine and legally
receivable for taxes. The taxpayer is then required to pay his taxes in
lawful money, and file his coupon in the Court of Appeals. by which it is
forwarded to the county court of the county, or to the hustings court of
the city, where the taxes are payable, with directions to frame an issue as
to whether it is genuine and legally receivable for taxes. Each party is entitled to exceptions and an appeal. If the issue is found for the petitioner,
a mandamus is issued, and the money he paid is to be refunded to him out
of the State treasury, in preference to all other claims. Held, that said
sect. 4 furnishes an adequate and efficacious remedy substantially equivalent to that which existed at the date when the coupons were issued,
whereby the rights of the holder of them, in case the collector refuses to
receive them for taxes, can be maintained and enforced, and that the obligation of his contract with the State is not thereby impaired.
VOL. XVII.
49

