102

MYRICK V. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

There is therefore nothing in the record before us to show
that the agreement sued on was beyond the corporate powers
of this railroad company.
Judgment affirmed.

MYRICK v.'MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD CO

IPANY.

1. In the absence of a special contract, a railroad company, by receiving cattle
for transportation over its own line and other lines therewith connected, is
only bound to carry the cattle over its own line, and deliver them safely to
the next connecting carrier.
2. A contract whereby the liability of the company is sought to be extended beyond such carriage and delivery will not be inferred from loose and doubtful expressions, but must be established by clear and satisfactory evidence.
Taking a through fare on the receipt of the cattle does not establish such
liability.
3. The receipt of the company, post, p. 103, does not of itself constitute such contract. The circumstances under which it was given should have been submitted to the jury, to determine whether in fact a through contract was
made.
4. In passing upon the rights of the parties, this court will not be controlled by
the judicial decisions of the State where the contract of carriage was made.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This is an action for breach of two alleged contracts of the
Michigan Central Railroad Company with the plaintiff, Paris
Myrick, each to carry for him two hundred and two head of
cattle from Chicago to Philadelphia, and there deliver them to
his order. It arises out of these facts: Myrick was in 1877
engaged, at Chicago, in the business of buying cattle, sometimes on his own account and sometimes for others, and forwarding them by railway to Philade]phia. The company is a
corporation created by the State of Michigan, and its line extends from Chicago to Detroit, where it connects with the
Great Western Railroad, which, by its connections, leads to
Philadelphia.
In November, 1877, Myrick purchased two lots of cattle,
each consisting of two hundred and two head, and shipped
them over the road of the company. One of the purchases

Oct. 1882.]

MYRICK v.

MICHIGAN CENTRAL

103

R.R. Co.

and shipments was made on the 7th and the other on the 14th
of the month. It will suffice to give the particulars of the
first of these transactions, as they were identical in all respects,
except in the amount of the draft negotiated and the weight
of the cattle.
On the shipment of the cattle Myrick took from the company a receipt, as follows: "MICHIGAN

CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY,

CHICAGO STATION, Nov. 7th, 1877.
"Received from Paris Myrick, in apparent good order, consigned
order Paris Myrick (notify J. and W. Blaker, Philadelphia, Pa.):
WEIGHT OR

ARTICLE.

Two hundred and two (202) cattle ........

.................

240,000

"Advance charges, $12.00. Marked and described as above
(contents and value otherwise unknown) for transportation by the
Michigan Central Railroad Company to the warehouse at
" WM. GEAGAI, Agent."
On the margin of the receipt was the following:,"This company will not hold itself responsible for the accuracy
of these weights as between buyer and seller, the approximate
weight having been ascertained by track-scales, which are sufficiently accurate for freighting purposes, but may not be strictly correct as between buyer and seller. This receipt can be exchanged
for a through bill of lading.
See rules of transportation on the back hereof. Use
"NOTICE.separate receipts for each consignment."
On the back of the receipt the rules were printed, one of
which, the eleventh, was as follows: "Goods or property consigned to any place off the company's
line of road, or to any point or place beyond the termini, will be
sent forward by a carrier or freightman, when there are such, in
the usual manner, the company acting, for the purpose of delivery
to such carrier, as the agent of the consignor or consignee, and not
as carrier. The company will not be liable or responsible for any

104

MYRICK V. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

loss, damage, or injury to the property after the same shall have
been sent from any warehouse or station of the company."
On the day this receipt was obtained, Myrick drew and delivered to the Commercial National Bank, at Chicago, a draft,
of which the following is a copy: "$12,287.57.]
CHICAGO, Nov. 7, 1877.
"Pay to the order of Geo. L. Otis, cashier, twelve thousand two
hundred and eighty-seven - dollars, value received, and charge
the same to account of
PARIS MYRICK.
"To J. and W. BLAxER, Newtown, PA."
As security for its payment Myrick indorsed the receipt obtained from the railroad company and delivered it, with the
draft, to the bank, which thereupon gave him the money for it.
The cattle were carried on the road of the Michigan Central
to Detroit, and thence over the road of the Great Western
Railroad Company to Buffalo, and thence over the roads of
other companies to Philadelphia, the last of which was the
road of the North Pennsylvania Railroad Company. They arrived in Philadelphia in about four days after their shipment,
where, according to the uniform custom in the course of business of the railroad company, they were turned over to the
Drove-Yard Company, which was formed for the purpose of
receiving cattle arriving there, taking care of them, and delivering them to their owners or consignees. This company notified the Blakers of the arrival of the cattle, and delivered them
to those parties without the production of the carrier's receipt
transferred by Myrick to the Commercial National Bank. The
Blakers paid the expense of the transportation, took possession
of the cattle, sold them, and appropriated the proceeds. The
lot shipped on the 14th of November were delivered in like
manner to the Blakers by the Drove-Yard Company without
the production of the carrier's receipt, given to the bank, and
were in like manner disposed of. Soon afterwards the Blakers
failed, and the two drafts on them, one made upon the shipment of November 7 and the other on the shipment of November 14, were not' paid. Hence the present action for the value
of the cattle thus lost to the bank, Myrick suing for its use.
It appeared on the trial that Myrick had made previous

Oct. 1882.]

MYRICK V. MICHIGAN CENTRAL

R.R. Co.

105

shipments of cattle from Chicago to Philadelphia and taken
similar receipts from the Michigan Central Railroad Company;
that the cattle shipped had always been delivered by the Pennsylvania Company, at Philadelphia, to the Drove-Yard Company there, and by that company delivered to the Blakers
without the production of the carrier's receipt or any bill of
lading; that the Blakers were dealers in cattle and had particular pens in the yards assigned to them ; that the cattle of the
shipments of November 7 and November 14 were, on their
arrival, placed by the superintendent of the drove-yards in
those pens and were sold by the Blakers on the following day,
and that the carrier's receipt was not called for either by the
railroad or the stock-yard company. It also appeared on the
trial that Myrick bought the cattle for the Blakers, and that a
person employed by them accompanied the cattle from Chicago
until their delivery at the drove-yard at Philadelphia; that the
through rate from Chicago to Philadelphia on the cattle was
fifty-eight cents per hundred; that notice of this rate was
posted in the station of the defendant company at Chicago, and
that it was not the custom of the railroad company at Philadelphia to look to the consignee for freight, but collected it from
the Drove-Yard Company.
The court was requested to give to the jury various instructions, one of which, though presented under many forms, amounts
substantially to this: That as the road of the Michigan Central
Railroad Company terminates at Detroit, the company was
not bound, in the absence of special contract, to transport the
cattle beyond such termination, and that the receipt of freight
for a point beyond and an agreement for a through fare did not
of themselves establish such a contract.
The court refused to give this instruction, or any embodying
the principle which it expresses.
On the contrary, it instructed the jury that the receipt, termed "bill of lading,"
under the circumstances in which it was made, was a through
contract whereby the defendant agreed to transport the cattle
named in it from Chicago to Philadelphia, and there deliver
them to the order of Paris Myrick, and to notify the Blakers of
their arrival; that this was the undertaking on the part of the
defendant company with the plaintiff Myrick, and with any

MYRICK v. MICrlGAN CENTRAL

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

assignee or holder of the contract. The facts attending the
transaction not being disputed, there could be only one result
from this instruction, - a recovery by the plaintiff. From the
judgment entered thereon the case was brought to this court for
review.

Mr. George P. -dmunds and Ilk. Andrew L. Osborn for the
plaintiff in error.

Mr. Walter Cranston Lamed and Mr. John N. Tewett for the
defendant in error.
. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court, and,
stating
the case as above, proceeded as follows: after
The principal question presented by the instruction requested
by the defendant has been elaborately considered and adjudged
by this court. It is only necessary, therefore, to state the conclusion reached.
A railroad company is a carrier of goods for the public, and,
as such, is bound to carry safely whatever goods are intrusted
to it for transportation, within the course of its business, to the
end of its route, and there deposit them in a suitable place for
their owners or consignees. If the road of the company connects with other roads, and goods are received for transportation beyond the termination of its own line, there is superadded
to its duty as a common carrier that of a forwarder by the
connecting line; that is, to deliver safely the goods to such line,
- the next carrier on the route beyond. This forwarding duty
arises from the obligation implied in taking the goods for the
point beyond its own line. The common law imposes no
greater duty than this. If more is expected from the company
receiving the shipment, there must be a special agreement for
it. This is the doctrine of this court, although 'a different rule
of liability is adopted in England and in some of the States.
M

As was said in _ailroad Company v. M11anufacturing Company,
"It is unfortunate for the interests of commerce that there is
any diversity of opinion on such a subject, especially in this
country; but the rule that holds the carrier only liable to the
extent of his own route, and for the safe storage and delivery
to the next carrier, is in itself so just and, reasonable that we
do not hesitate to give it our sanction." 16 Wall. 818, 324.

Oct. 1882.]

MYRICK V. MICHIGAN CENTRAL

R.R. Co.

107

This doctrine was approved in the subsequent case of Railroad Conpany v. Pratt,although the contract there was to carry
through the whole route. 22 Wall. 123. Such a contract
may, of course, be made with any one of different connecting
lines. There is no objection in law to a contract of the kind,
with its attendant liabilities. See also Insurance Company v.
Railroad Comnpany, 104 U. S. 146.
The general doctrine, then, as to transportation by connecting lines, approved by this court, and also by a majority of the
State courts, amounts to this : that each road, confining itself
to its common-law liability, is only bound, in the absence of a
special contract, to safely carry over its own route and safely to
deliver to the next connecting carrier, but that any one of the
companies may agree that over the whole route its liability
shall extend. In the absence of a special agreement to that
effect, such liability will not attach, and the agreement will
not be inferred from doubtful expressions or loose language,
but only from clear and satisfactory evidence. Although a
railroad company is not a common carrier of live animals in the
same sense that it is a carrier of goods, its responsibilities being
in many respects different, yet when it undertakes generally
to carry such freight it assumes, under similar conditions, the
same obligations, so far as the route is concerned over which the
freight is to be carried.
In the present case the court below held that by its receipt,
construed in the light of the circumstances under which it was
given, the Michigan Central Railroad Company assumed the
responsibility of transporting the cattle over the whole route
from Chicago to Philadelphia. It did not submit the receipt
with evidence of the attendant circumstances to the jury to
determine whether such a through contract was made. It
ruled that the receipt itself constituted such a contract. In
this respect it erred. The receipt does not, on its face, import
any bargain to carry the freight through. It does not say that
the freight is to be transported to Philadelphia or that it was
received for transportation there. It only says that it is consigned to the order of Paris Myrick, and that the Blakers at
Philadelphia are to be notified. And, after the description of
the property, it adds: "Marked and described as above (con-

108

MYRICK V. MICHIGAN CENTRAL

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

tents and value otherwise unknown) for transportation by the
Michigan Central Railroad Company to the warehouse at
," leaving the place blank.
This blank may have been
intended for the insertion of some place on the road of the
company, or at its termination. It cannot be assumed by the
court, in the absence of evidence on the point, that it was intended for the place of the final destination of the cattle. On
the margin of the receipt is the following: "NoTIoE. - See
rules of transportation on the back hereof." And among the
rules is one declaring that goods consigned to any place off the
company's line, or beyond it, would be sent forward by a carrier or freightman, when there are such, in the usual manner,'
the company acting for that purpose as the agent of the consignor or consignee, and not as carrier; and that the company
would not be responsible for any loss, damage, or injury to the
property after the same shall have been sent from its warehouse
or station. Though this rule, brought to the knowledge of the
shipper, might not limit the liability imposed by a specific
through contract, yet it would tend to rebut any inference of
such a contract from the receipt of goods marked for a place
beyond the road of the company.
The doctrine invoked by the plaintiff's counsel against the
limitation by contract of the common-law responsibility of carriers has no application. There is, as already stated, no commonlaw responsibility devolving upon any carrier to transport goods
over other than its own lines, and the laws of Illinois' restricting
the right to limit such responsibility do not, therefore, touch
the case. Nor was the common-law liability of the defendant
corporation enlarged by the fact that a notice of the charges
for through transportation was posted in the defendant's station-house at Chicago. Such notices are usually found in
stations on lines which connect with other lines, and they
furnish important information to shippers, who naturally desire
to know what the charges are for through freight as well as for
those over a single line. It would be unfortunate if this information could not be given by a public notice in the station of a
company without subjecting that company, if freight is taken
by it, to responsibility for the manner in which it is carried
on intermediate and connecting lines to the end of the route.

Oct. 1882.]

MYRICK V. MICHIGAN CENTRAL R.R. Co.

109

Nor was the liability of the company affected by the fact
that the notice on the margin of the receipt stated that the
ticket given might be " exchanged for a through bill of ladin-." It would seem to indicate that the receipt was not
deemed of itself to constitute a through contract. The through
bill of lading may also have contained a limitation as to the
extent of the route over which the company would undertake
to carry the cattle. Besides, if weight is to be given to this
notice as characterizing the contract made, it must be taken
with the rule to which it also calls attention, that the 'company
assumed responsibility only for transportation over its own
line.
It follows from the views expressed that the court below
erred in its charge that the ticket or bill of lading was a
through contract, whereby the defendant company agreed to
transfer the cattle to Philadelphia, and safely deliver them
there to the order of Myrick.
Our attention has been called to some decisions of the
Supreme Court of Illinois, which would seem to hold that a
railroad company which receives goods to carry, marked for a
particular destination, though beyond its own line, is prima
facie bound to carry them to that place and deliver them
there; and that an agreement to that effect is implied by the
reception of goods thus marked. Illinois Central Railroad Co.
v. Frankenberg, 54 Ill. 88; Illinois Central Railroad Co. v.
Johnson, 34 id. 389.
Assuming that such is the purport of the decisions, they are
not binding upon us. What constitutes a contract of carriage
is not a question of local law, upon which the decision of a
State court must control. It is a matter of general law, upon
which this court will exercise its own judgment. Chicago City
v. Robbins, 2 Black, 418 ; Railroad Company v. .NationalBank,
102 U. S.14; Hough v. Railway Company, 100 id. 213.
If the doctrine of the Supreme Court of Illinois, as to what
constitutes a contract of carriage over connecting lines of roads,
is sound, it ought to govern, not only in Illinois, but in other
States; and yet the tribunals of other States, and a majority of
them, hold the reverse of the Illinois court, and coincide with
the views of this court. Such is the case in Massachusetts.

BUSH V. KENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ot.

Nutting v. ConnecticutRiver Railroad Co., 1 Gray (Mass.), 502 ;
Burroughs v. Norwich & Worcester Railroad Co., 100 Mass. 26.
If we are to follow on this subject the ruling of the State courts,
we should be obliged to give a different interpretation to the
same act -the reception of goods marked for a place beyond
the road of the company - in different States, holding it to
imply one thing in Illinois and another in Massachusetts.
The judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded for
a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

BUsH v. KENTUCKY.
1. Where the Circuit Court quashes an indictment, found against the prisoner in
a State court, wherefrom the cause was on his petition removed, it has no
jurisdiction to proceed against him for the crime against the State wherewith he was charged.
2. Where the highest court of the State had declared to be unconstitutional
her statute whereby, because of their race and color, citizens of African
descent were excluded from grand and petit juries, and it had further decided that the officer summoning or selecting jurors must disregard race or
color, a person of that descent against whom a criminal prosecution was
subsequently instituted in the State court has no just ground for declaring,
in advance of a trial, that he was denied, or that in the State tribunals he
cannot enforce, the equal civil rights secured to him as a citizen by the
Constitution or the statutes of the United States. The case was not, therefore, removable to the Circuit Court, nor should the panel of petit jurors be
set aside simply on the ground that it consisted wholly of white persons.
3. Where pursuant to such a statute, and before its unconstitutionality was so
declared, the grand jurors were selected who found the indictment against
the prisoner, a person of that descent, the court of original jurisdiction
should, on his motion, set aside the indictment.

ERROR to the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. VLewellen P. Tarlton for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. William C. P. Breckenridge and Mr. Joseph D. Hunt for
the defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This court shares the regret expressed by counsel that the
record i5 in some respects so meagre, and in other respects so

