DUFF v. STERLING PUMP Co.

[Sup. Ct.

DUFF v. STERLING PUMP COMPANY.
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 6673, granted to Mrs. P. Duff, E. A. Kitzmiller,
and R. P. Duff, Oct. 5, 1875, for an "improvement in wash-boards," on the
surrender of original letters-patent No. 111,585, granted to Westly Todd,
as inventor, Feb. 7, 1871, are not infringed by a wash-board constructed
in accordance with the description contained in letters-patent No. 171,568,
granted to Aaron J.Hull, Dec. 28, 1875.
2. In view of prior inventions, the claims of the letters-patent granted to Todd
must be limited to the form which he shows and describes, namely, projections bounded by crossing horizontal and vertical grooves. They do not
cover diamond-shaped projections bounded by crossing diagonal grooves.
. In the field of wash-boards made of sheet metal, with the surface broken into
protuberances formed of the body of the metal so as to make a rasping
surface, and to strengthen the metal by its shape, and to provide channels
for the water to run off, Todd was not a pioneer. He merely devised a
new form to accomplish those results; and his letters-patent do not cover
a form which is a substantial departure from it.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. L. L. Bond for the appellants.
There was no counsel for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit in equity brought for the alleged infringement
of reissued letters-patent No. 6673, granted to Mrs. P. Duff,
E. A. Kitzmiller, and R. P. Duff, Oct. 5, 1875, for an "improvement in wash-boards," on the surrender of original letterspatent No. 111,585, granted to Westly Todd, as inventor, Feb.
7, 1871. The specification of the reissue says: "The nature
of my invention consists in the construction of a sheet-metal
wash-board with a rubbing face longitudinally and transversely
corrugated or ribbed, whereby such rubbing surface shall be
made up of a series of projections, bounded by a series of horizontal, vertical, and angularly shaped grooves. The rubbing
face somewhat resembles the face of a rasp or file in general
appearance, though the projections are less sharp and angular."
"In the accompanying drawing A represents the frame of the

Oct. 1882.]

DUFF V. STERLING PUMP CO.

wash-board, and is of ordinary construction. The rubbing surface is formed of sheet zinc or other suitable sheet metal,
corrugated or provided with a series of raised portions, B,
alternating, along the line of the corrugation or rib which
forms them, with depressions or unraised portions, a, the corrugations and depressions extending in either direction across
the sheet, so that a series of horizontal and vertical and also
angularly shaped grooves are formed between the projections.
Each projection, B, represents four inclined surfaces sloping
from the apex of the projection into the grooves which surround
and bound it. The grooves between the corrugations are also
broken or interrupted at intervals by small projections or raised
portions, C, each of which presents two lateral surfaces. In a
wash-board thus longitudinally and transversely ribbed or corrugated, the inequalities of the rubbing surfaces are such that
the desired effect is more readily and effectively attained,
whereby the labor of washing is greatly diminished and is
accomplished with ease and facility, and with less than the
usual wear on the clothes." There are three claims in the
patent, as follows: "1. A sheet-metal wash-board having a
series of raised projections, B, each bounded by longitudinal
and transverse grooves or depressions, substantially as set
forth. 2. In a sheet-metal wash-board the projections, B, each
bounded by grooves or depressions, in combination with raised
projections, 0, in the bottoms of the interlying grooves, substantially as set forth. 3. As a new article of manufacture, a
sheet-metal wash-board, having a rubbing face both longitudinally and transversely ribbed or corrugated, substantially as
set forth."
The wash-board of the defendant is made in accordance with
the description contained in letters-patent No. 171,568, granted
Dec. 28, 1875, to Aaron J. Hull. That description shows a
sheet-metal wash-board provided with diamond-shaped projections, each bounded by diagonal grooves or depressions. The
metal plate is described as being crimped to form oblong diamond-shaped projections, having the largest diameter running
transversely across the board, each projection being bounded
by a diagonal groove or depression, the upper corner of each
diamond, where the grooves cross each other, being raised

DUFF V. STERLING PUMP CO.

[Sup. Or.

higher than any other part of the same, and the corresponding
lower corner being the lowest part of the diamond. The claim
of the patent is this: "A -wash-board of sheet metal, formed
-with a series of raised diamond-shaped projections, B, and a
series of narrow diagonal grooves, 6, between the projections,
which cross each other, substantially as set forth."
The case was heard on pleadings and proofs in the Circuit
Court. That court entered a decree declaring that the equities
were with the defendant and dismissing the bill.
It is entirely clear that the specification of the Todd patent
describes the grooves in the metal as being horizontal and vertical, and gives no other meaning to the words "transverse" and
"longitudinal." It describes the transverse and longitudinal corrugating or ribbing as producing projections which are bounded
by horizontal and vertical grooves. From the evidence, Todd
took the old zinc wash-board corrugated into horizontal grooves,
and corrugated or ribbed it again by vertical grooves crossing
the horizontal grooves at right angles. Nothing is said in the
specification as to the method of producing the corrugating or
ribbing, nor does the patent claim any process or machinery.
In the Galusha and Safford patent of December, 1857, there
is shown a wash-board formed of corrugated sheet metal. The
specification states that the corrugations are formed of a series
of elevations and depressions, the elevations and depressions
being in parallel rows and in alternate positions with respect
to each other; that the corrugations are oblong, their ends
and sides inclined, and their edges somewhat rounded ; that
each elevation forms a figure approximating to a semi-cylinder
pointed at each end, the ends of the elevations in one row
overlapping the ends of those in the adjoining rows; that thus
channels are formed for the escape of water downward; and
that the form of the corrugations stiffens the board, as compared with the old form of parallel flutes extending entirely
across the plate.
In the Crihfield patent of October, 1870, there is shown a
zinc wash-board, composed of a series of irregularly placed
diamond-shaped raised pieces, arranged in rows crosswise of the
board from top to bottom, each alternate row being composed
of more elevations than the adjacent row, the elevations in one

Oct. 1882.]

DUFF V. STERLING PUMP

Co.

row being opposite the spaces between the elevations in the
two adjacent rows, and a series of oblique channels being thus
formed up and down the board from either side. The specification states that the boards can be stamped out by die plates.
Nothing is shown in evidence to defeat the novelty of the
claims of the Todd reissue, but, in view of the structures shown
in the patents of Galusha and Safford and of Crihfield, the
claims of the Todd reissue must be so limited as not to extend
to a structure such as is described in the Hull patent. We do
not perceive that in the wash-boards made by the defendant
there is any substantial departure from the description in the
Hull patent.
The case is one where, in view of the state of the art, the
invention must be restricted to the form shown and described
by the patentee. In the field of wash-boards made of sheet
metal, with the surface broken into protuberances formed of
the body of the metal, so as to make a rasping surface, and to
strengthen the metal by its form, and to provide channels for
the water to run off, Todd was not a pioneer. He merely devised a new form to accomplish these results. 1ailway Company v. Sayles, 97 U. S. 554. The defendant adopts another
form. Under such circumstances the Todd patent cannot be
extended so as to embrace the defendant's form. The latter
is not a mere colorable departure from the form of Todd, but is
a substantial departure. These views are in accordanme with
those heretofore announced by this court in Merrillv. Yeomans,
94 id. 568; Heytone Bridge Co. v. Phcenix Iron Co., 95 id.
274; and Burns v. Meyer, 100 id. 671.
Decree affirmed.

