Oct. 1882.]

59

PEOPLE V. COMPAGNIE GtN. TRANSATLANTIQUE.

ing any opinion as to any provisions of the Maryland laws
which refer to the inspection of tobacco grown out of Maryland.
Judgment affirmed.

PEOPLE v. COMPAGNIE G] NARALE TRANSATLANTIQUE.
1. The statute of New York of May 31, 1881, imposing a tax on every alien
passenger who shall come by vessel from a foreign country to the port
of New York, and holding the vessel liable for the tax, is a regulation of
foreign commerce, and void. Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S.
259, and Chy Lung v. Freeman, id. 275, cited, and the rulings therein made
reaffirmed.
2. The statute is not relieved from this constitutional objection by declaring in
its title that it is to raise money for the execution of the inspection laws
of the State, which authorize passengers to be inspected in order to determine who are criminals, paupers, lunatics, orphans, or infirm persons, without means or capacity to support themselves and subject to become a public
charge, as such facts are not to be ascertained by inspection alone.
3. The words "inspection laws," "imports," and "exports," as used in cl. 2, sect.
10, art. 1, of tie Constitution, have exclusive reference to property.
4. This is apparent from the language of ci. 1, sect. 9, of the same article, where,
in regard to the admission of persons of the African race, the word "migration" is applied to free persons, and "importation" to slaves.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr'. William H. Ivarts, Xr. aeorge . Sanders, and 1JVr.
Lewis Sanders for the plaintiff in error.
MZr. Frederick B. Coudert for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action commenced by the People of the State of
New York, in the Court of Common Pleas for the City and

County of New York, to recover of the defendant the sum of
one dollar for each alien passenger brought into New York by
its vessels, for whom a tax had not before been paid, with penalties and interest.

The case was removed into the Circuit

Court of the United States, which, on demurrer to the complaint, rendered a judgment in favor of the defendant.

plaintiff then brought this writ of error.

The

60

PEOPLE V. COMPAGNIE GtN. TRANSATLANTIQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

The tax in this case is demanded under sect. 1 of a statute of
New York, passed May 31, 1881, entitled "An Act to raise
money for the execution of the inspection laws of the State of
New York." The section reads thus "SECT. 1. There shall be levied and collected a duty of one dollar for each and every alien passenger who shall come by vessel
from a foreign port to the port of New York for whom a tax has
not heretofore been paid, the same to be paid to the chamberlain
of the city of New York by the master, owner, agent, or consignee
of every such vessel within twenty-four hours after the entry thereof
into the port of New York."
It has been so repeatedly decided by this court that such a
tax as this is a regulation of commerce with foreign nations,
confided by the Constitution to the exclusive control of Congress, and this court has so recently considered the whole subject in regard to similar statutes of the States of New York,
Louisiana, and California, that unless we are prepared to reverse our decisions and the principles on which they are based,
in the cases of Henderson v. Mayor of New York and ChZy
Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 259, 275, there is little to say beyond affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court, which was
based on those decisions.
The argument mainly relied on in the present case is that
the new statute of New York, passed after her former statutes
had been declared void in Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, and
in the recent case of Henderson v. Mayor of New York, is in
aid of the inspection laws of the State. This argument is supposed to derive support from another statute passed three days
earlier, entitled "An Act for the inspection of alien emigrants
and their effects by the commissioners of emigration."
This act empowers and directs the commissioners of emigration "to inspect the persons and effects of all persons arriving
by vessel at the port of New York from any foreign country,
as far as may be necessary, to ascertain who among them are
habitual criminals, or pauper lunatics, idiots, or imbeciles, or
deaf, dumb, blind, infirm, or orphan persons, without means or
capacity to support themselves and subject to become a public
charge, and whether their persons or effects are affected with

Oct. 1882.]

PEOPLE V. COMPAGNIE G] N. TRANSATLANTIQUE.

61

any infectious or contagious disease, and whether their effects
contain any criminal implements or contrivances."
Subsequent sections direct how such characters, if found,
shall be dealt with by the board. Other sections of the act of
May 31 direct the chamberlain of the city to pay over to the
commissioners of emigration all such sums of money as may
be necessary for the execution of the inspection laws of the
State of New York, and the net produce of all duties received
by him under that act, after the necessary payments to the
commissioners of emigration, to the treasury of the United
States.
These two statutes, construed together, it is argued, are inspection laws within the meaning of art. 1, sect. 10, cl. 2, of
the Constitution of the United States, to wit: "No State shall,
without the consent of the Congress, lay any imposts or duties
on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws; and the net produce of
all duties and imposts laid by any State on imports or exports
shall be for the use of the treasury of the United States, and
all such laws shall be subject to the revision and control of the
Congress."
What laws may be properly classed as inspection laws under
this provision of the Constitution must be determined largely
by the nature of the inspection laws of the States at the time
the Constitution was framed.
In the opinion of this court in the case of Turner v. Maryfland, delivered by Mr. Justice Blatchford contemporaneously
with the one in the present case, there is an elaborate examination of those statutes, many of which are cited, ante,
pp. 51-54. Similar citations are found in a foot-hote to the
report of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 119.
We feel quite safe in saying that neither at the time of the
formation of the Constitution nor since has any inspection law
included anything but personal property as a subject of its
operation. Nor has it ever been held that the words "imports
and exports" are used in that instrument as applicable to free
human beings by any competent judicial authority.
We know of nothing which can be exported from one country
or imported into another that is-not in some sense property,

62

PEOPLE V. COMPAGNIE GAN. TRANSATLANTIQUE.

[Sup. Ct.

-property in regard to which some one is owner, and is either
the importer or the exporter.
This cannot apply to a free man. Of him it is never said he
imports himself, or his wife or his children.
The language of sect. 9, art. 1, of the Constitution, which is
relied on by counsel, does not establish a different construction :
"The migration or importation of such persons as any of the
States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be
prohibited by the Congress prior to the year one thousand eight
hundred and eight, but a tax or duty may be inposed on such
importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each person."
There has never been any doubt that this clause had exclusive reference to persons of the African race. The two words
"migration" and "importation" refer to the different conditions
of this race as regards freedom and slavery. When the free
black man came here, he migrated; when the slave came, he
was imported. The latter was property, and was imported by
his owner as other property, and a duty could be imposed on him
as an import. We conclude that free human beings are not
imports or exports, within the meaning of the Constitution.
In addition to what is said above, it is apparent that the object of these New York enactments goes far beyond any correct
view of the purpose of an inspection law. The commissioners
are "to inspect all persons arriving from any foreign country
to ascertain who among them are habitual criminals, or pauper
lunatics, idiots, or imbeciles, . . . or orphan persons, without
means or capacity to support themselves and subject to become
a public charge."
It may safely be said that these are matters incapable of
being satisfactorily ascertained by inspection.
What is an inspection? Something which can be accomplished by looking at or weighing or measuring the thing to be
inspected, or applying to it at once some crucial test. When
testimony or evidence is to be taken and examined, it is not
inspection in any sense whatever.
Another section provides for the custody, the support, and
the treatment for disease of- these persons, and the retransportation of criminals. Are these inspection laws? Is the ascertainment of the guilt of a crime to be made by inspection?

Oct. 1882.]

PEOPLE V. COMIPAGNIE

GeN.

TRANSATLANTIQUE.

63

In fact, these statutes differ from those heretofore held void
only in calling them in their caption "inspection laws," and
in providing for payment of any surplus, after the support
of paupers, criminals, and diseased persons, into the treasury of
the United States, - a surplus which, in this enlarged view of
what are the expenses of an inspection law, it is safe to say
will never exist.
A State cannot make a law designed to raise money to support paupers, to detect or prevent crime, to guard against
disease, and to cure the sick, an inspection law, within the
constitutional meaning of that word, by calling it so in the
title.
Since the decision of this case in the Circuit Court, Congress
has undertaken to do what this court has repeatedly said it
alone had the power to do. By the act of Aug. 3, 1882, c. 376,
entitled " An Act to regulate immigration," a duty of fifty
cents is to be collected, for every passenger not a citizen of the
United States who shall come to any port within the United
States by steam or sail vessel from a foreign country, from the
master of said vessel by the collector of customs. The money
so collected is to be paid into the treasury of the United States,
and to constitute a fund to be called the immigrant fund, for
the care of immigrants arriving in the United States, and the
relief of such as are in distress. The Secretary of the Treasury is charged with the duty of executing the provisions of the
act and with supervision over the business of immigration. No
more of the fund so raised is to be expended in any port than
is collected there. This legislation covers the same ground as
the New York statute, and they cannot coexist.

Judgment affirmed.

