Oct. 1882.]

QUINCY V. COOKE.

QuINOY v. COOKE.
The General Assembly of Illinois enacted, March 27, 186D, a statute as follows:
"The acts of the city council of the city of Quincy, from June 2, 1868, to
August 28, 1868, in ordering allelection on the proposition to subscribe
$100,000 to the capital stock of the Mississippi and Missouri River Air Line
subscription of said stock, and all other acts of
Railroad Company, and tile
said council in connection therewith, are hereby legalized and confirmed." In
conformity with the vote of the citizens of Quincy cast at such an election,
the council had, by an ordinance of Aug. 7, 1868, subscribed for that amount
of said capital stock; but neither the election nor the subscription was authorized by law. After the statute took effect, negotiable coupon bonds were, by
company
virtue of It and the ordinance, issued in the sum of $100,000 to tile
by tile
city, and the latter received therefor an equal amount of said stock.
In a suit by A., a bona Jide holder of coupons detached from the bonds, H1dd, that they are valid obligations of tie city.

EP.RoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Xir. Carl B. _pler for the plaintiff in error.
.Th'. James Grant, iXIr. Whit. H. Grant, and
Fadonr for the defendant in error.

ir. Wlliam Mc-

Mi. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

On the seventh day of August, 1868, the city council of
Quincy, Illinois, -in conformity with a vote of the people at
an election held under the authority of a resolution adopted by
that body on the ninth day of June previous, - passed an
ordinance empowering and directing the mayor to subscribe
$100,000, payable in city bonds, to the capital stock of the
Mississippi and Missouri River Air Line Railroad Company, a
corporation created under the laws of Missouri. The object of
the subscription was to aid in the construction of a railroad
(lying wholly within the' State of Missouri) from West Quincy
northwesterly, connecting Quincy with the road of that company. The ordinance made it a condition of the issue and
payment of the bonds that there should be expended the sum
of $50,000 "in grading, bridging, and tieing the road," commencing at West Quincy, for a distance of twenty-five miles;
further, that due guarantees be given, before the bonds were

QUINCY V. COOKE.

[Sup. Ct.

issued, that their proceeds should be so expended, - "the city
council of Quincy to determine on the compliance with said conditions and issue of bonds in payment of the subscription."
On the succeeding day,. the city, by its mayor, made the subscription upon the required conditions.
The General Assembly of Illinois passed, March 27, 1869, a
statute declaring "that the acts of the city council, of the city
of Quincy, from June 2, 1868, to Aug. 28, 1868, in ordering
an election on the proposition to subscribe $100,000 to the
capital stock of the Mississippi and Missouri River Air Line
Railroad Company, and the subscription of said stock, and all
other acts of said council in connection therewith, are hereby
legalized and confirmed." 3 Pri. Laws Ill., 1869, p. 376.
On the 1st of January, 1870, the city council issued to the
company, in part payment of said subscription, fifty bonds of
the city, of $500 each, numbered from one to fifty, inclusive;'
and, on May 18, 1870, in further payment, seventy-five additional bonds, numbered from fifty-one to one hundred and
twenty-five, inclusive. The remainder, dated July 1, 1870,
were issued on Nov. 12, 1870, in further and full payment.
Upon each delivery of bonds the city received in exchange an
equal amount at par value of the stock of the railroad company. The bonds, negotiable in form, were made payable to
the railroad company or bearer at the National Bank of Commerce in New York. They purport to have been issued under
and by virtue of the ordinance of Aug. 7, 1868, and of the said
act of assembly. The present action was brought to recover
the amount of certain coupons of the bonds so issued.
The special finding shows that all of the coupons sued on,
except one, were of the bonds issued and delivered Jan. 1 and
May 18, 1870; that the bonds from which the coupons sued
on were taken, with all their coupons, were purchased by
plaintiff for value, before maturity, in open market, in the
usual course of business, and without notice of any infirmity
therein; that the railroad company, from the commencement
of the construction of its road, owned and ran its trains from
West Quincy into and out of Quincy over the bridge connecting those two places; that the city, for six years after issuing
the bonds, paid the successive annual instalments of interest,

Oct. 1882.]

QUINCY V. COOKE.

and by an agent, regularly appointed for that purpose, voted
its stock at one or more meetings of stockholders held after
July 2, 1870.
It is not necessary to consider separately the various questions of law upon which there occurred, at the trial, a difference of opinion between the judges. They are all more or less
involved in the general inquiry as to the existence of legislative authority for this issue of bonds.
1. Such authority cannot be found in the original charter of
the city or in the act of Feb. 16, 1857. The former gives the
city council power "to appropriate money and provide for the
payment of the debt and expenses" of the city; the latter
authorized that body "to issue city bonds to any amount not
exceeding, at one time, in the aggregate, the sum of $75,000."
These provisions manifestly relate to debts and expenses incurred for ordinary municipal purposes, and not to railroad
subscriptions, the authority to make which must be expressly
conferred by statute. These bonds upon their face show that
they were executed in payment of a subscription of the latter
character, and, consequently, purchasers were charged with
notice that they were not issued for ordinary municipal purposes under any power conferred by the charter of the city or
by the act of 1857.
2. The question of legislative authority is not determinable
by that provision of the Illinois Constitution of 1870 which
saving municipal subscriptions made under existing laws
by a popular vote prior to its adoption - declares that "no
county, city, town, township, or other municipality shall ever
become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make donation to, or loan its credit in aid
of, such corporation: Provided, however, that the adoption of
this article shall not be construed as affecting the right of
any such municipality to make such subscriptions when the
same have been authorized, under existing laws, by a vote of the
people of such municipalities prior to such adoption." This is
quite clear in view of sect. 24 of the schedule of that Constitution, which provides: "Nothing contained in this Constitution
shall be so construed as to deprive the General Assembly of the
power to authorize the city of Quincy to create any indebtedness

QUINCY V. COOKE.

[Sup. Ct.

for railroad or municipal purposes, for which the people of said
city shall have voted, and to which they shall have given, by
such vote, their assent, prior to the thirteenth day of December,
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixtynine: Provided, that no such indebtedness so created shall, in
any part thereof, be paid by the State, or from any State revenue, tax, or fund, but the same shall be paid, if at all, by the
said city of Quincy alone, and by taxes to be levied upon the taxable property thereof : And proiiided further, that the General
Assembly shall have no power in the premises that it could not
exercise under the present Constitution of this State."
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in Q. I. j- P. 1R. R. Co.
v. M~orris, 84 Ill. 410, had occasion to consider the scope
and effect of that section. In that case'an election was held
Aug. 7, 1869, under the authority of a resolution of the city
council, to take the sense of the people upon a subscription to
the capital stock of the Quincy, Missouri, and Pacific Railroad Company, also a Missouri corporation, whose road lay
wholly within that State. That election was held without
any law authorizing a vote on the question, or empowering
the city to become a stockholder in that company. But by
an act passed July 1, 1871, after the Constitution of 1870
went into operation, the city of Quincy - subject to the terms
and requirements embodied in the proposition submitted to the
people -was authorized to make, upon such conditions as the
city council deemed best, a subscription to the stock of that
company, for which the people may have voted prior to the
thirteenth day of December, 1869. The act further provided:
"Any election held in said city prior to said day, for the purpose of such vote being taken, and any contract or subscription
made, or to be made, by said city to the capital stock of said
railroad company in pursuance thereof, and any bonds or other
evidences of such indebtedness issued or to be issued by said
city, are hereby declared valid." Under that act the subscription was made and bonds issued ; and the controlling question
was as to their validity. The court -waiving any expression
of opinion as to the validity of that part of the act which in
terms purported to legalize the election - decided: That the
obvious effect and intent of the twenty-fourth section of the

Oct. 1882.]

QUINCY v. OOOKE.

schedule of the Constitution were to leave the action of the city
of Quincy, in assuming, by vote prior to Dec. 13, 1869, to
create indebtedness for a railroad subscription, and the power
of the legislature over it, "unaffected by the Constitution of
1870; in other words, to leave the vote and the power of the
legislature to confer the right to take stock precisely as they
would have been under the Constitution of 1848;" that the
city council were the corporate authorities of Quincy, upon
whom, within the meaning of the Constitution of 1848, the
legislature could confer, without the intervention of a popular
vote, authority to make the subscription and issue the bonds;
that sect. 24 of that schedule embraced a vote taken without authority of law, prior to Dec. 13, 1869, because, had the
vote been legal, the language, "for which the people of said city
shall have voted, and to which they shall have given, by such
vote, their assent," would have been unnecessary in view of the
proviso in the general section forbidding municipal subscriptions in aid of railroad corporations; lastly, that the construction of the Quincy, Missouri, and Pacific Railroad, although no
part of it lay in Illinois, was a corporate purpose of the city of
Quincy, because thereby its trade and commerce were increased,
its property enhanced in value, and its welfare promoted.
3. It remains to inquire as to the authority of the city, under
the Constitution of 1848, to issue the bonds in question. Its
power to do so is denied upon these principal grounds: 1. That
the election held under the sanction of the city council, and the
action of that body in directing the subscription to be made,
were of no legal effect, since the election was held without
authority of law, and the subscription was made when there was
no legislative authority to create such indebtedness. 2. That
without such authority no subscription could be legally made.
3. That the curative act of March 27, 1869, was invalid, because it assumed to impose indebtedness upon the city without the consent of its corporate authorities. The soundness of
the first and second of these propositions cannot be disputed,
whether reference be had to the decisions of this court or to
those of the Supreme Court of Illinois.
But we are unable to concur in the suggestion that the corporate authorities of Quincy did not, after the passage of the

QUINCY v. COOKE.

[Sup. Ct.

act of March 27, 1869, have authority to issue these bonds.
In support of the position taken by the city, counsel refer to
numerous decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois construing the fifth section of the ninth article of the Constitution of
1848, which provides that "the corporate authorities of counties, townships, school districts, cities, towns, and villages may
be vested with power to assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes." "From those decisions the following propositions, among others, may be deduced: That the clause was
intended to define as well the class of municipal officers upon
whom the power of taxation, for local purposes, might be
conferred, as the purposes for which such power could be constitutionally exercised; that by the phrase " corporate authorities" must be understood those municipal officers who were
selected with some reference to the creation of municipal indebtedness, and who were either directly elected by the population to be taxed, or appointed in some mode to which they
have given their assent; that the construction of a railroad,
at least one within or near a county, township, town, village, or city, was a corporate purpose of such municipality ;
and that a debt for a subscription to the stock of a railroad
corporation, or for bonds in payment thereof, could not be imposed upon a municipal corporation without the consent or
against the will of its corporate authorities. But it has been
-quite as distinctly ruled by the Supreme Court of Illinois, that
the city council, and not the voters, of an incorporated city
were its corporate authorities within the meaning of the Constitution of 1848, and, if empowered by legislative enactment,
could, under that instrument, subscribe to the stock of a railroad corporation, and issue bonds in payment thereof, without
submitting the matter to popular vote. Such was the decision in
Q. 1. & P. B. R. Co. v. Morris, where the court reaffirmed the
ruling upon this point in Keithsburg v. Ericc, 34 Ill. 405, 421.
In the latter case, a subscription made by a town to the capital
stock of a railroad corporation -without authority of law, as
was alleged - was, by an act passed after the town was incorporated under a special charter, declared to be legal, and bonds
authorized to be issued therefor. The court said: "It is by no
means a necessary element in these subscriptions that there

Oct. 1882.]

QUINCY V. COOKE.

should be a vote of the inhabitants of the town or city authorizing them. It is competent for the legislature to bestow the
power directly on the corporation without any intermediary, as
they did in this case." In .Jfarshall v. Silliman, 61 Ill. 218, 225,
the right of the legislature to grant such an authority to the
trustees of an incorporated town was conceded. And in Williaiii8 v. Town of Roberts, 88 id. 11, 21, the court, speaking by
Scholfield, C. J., said: "County boards, such as boards of supervisors, county commissioners, &c., and the municipal authorities
of incorporated cities, towns, and villages, may, when empowered so to do by proper legislation, subscribe for the capital
stock of railroad corporations without first submitting the question to the electors of the municipality. They are elected as
representatives of the electors, and theoretically, in appropriate
cases, their acts are the acts of those they represent. Hence it
has been held, where a vote of the electors has been required as
a precedent condition to the making of a subscription for stock
in a railroad company, and the law prescribing the mode of calling and holding the election has not been observed, inasmuch as
the legislature might have empowered the municipal authorities
to make the subscription without first submitting the question to
the electors, it may, by a subsequent enactment, declare the noncompliance with the law in the holding of the election of no
consequence, and validate the subscription, -in
other words,
validate the subscription without reference to the election.
This, however, it will be observed, is upon the theory that power
to make the subscription does not in any degree necessarily depend upon a vote of the electors of the municipality upon that
question, but solely upon the will of the legislature."
The authorities to which we have referred sustain the judgment against the city. This case is clearly distinguishable
from those in which the legislature has attempted to impose
upon a municipal corporation, without the consent of its corporate authorities, an indebtedness for subscription to the capital
stock of a railroad corporation.
The cases mainly relied on by counsel for the city are those
in which certain officers of limited authority were, in terms or
in effect, required by legislative enactment to issue bonds or
incur indebtedness in the name of a municipality, without the

QUINCY V. COOKE.

[Sup. Ot.

consent, expressed in legal form, of those who were, in the constitutional sense, its corporate authorities. Here there can be no
question but that the city council are the corporate authorities
of Quincy. And there is no ground whatever upon which to
rest the suggestion that the indebtedness was created without
their consent. In no just sense were they compelled to issue
bonds in exchange for stock in the railroad company. If, as
claimed by the city, the act of March 27, 1869, was inoperative
in so far as it assumed to legalize and confirm what had been
previously done without the sanction of law, nevertheless by
that act it was intended to confer upon the city council power,
in execution of the expressed will of the voters, to issue bonds
to the amount of $100,000 for stock in this railroad company.
The vote of the electors, we have seen, was not essential to
the validity of bonds issued, under legislative sanction, by the
corporate authorities of the city. The city council was not
required or directed, but only empowered to proceed as if they
had been originally invested with authority to make the subscription. The legislature, in substance, declared, as it might
constitutionally have done, that the corporate authorities of the
city had its consent to issue bonds to be exchanged for stock in
the railroad company. If the corporate authorities could have
been compelled by legal proceedings to issue the bonds, that is
only another form of saying that the curative act was constitutional, and, consequently, that the bonds are valid. If, however,
they could not have been so compelled, then the execution and
delivery of the bonds, under the authority of the act of March
27; 1869, was a voluntary creation of indebtedness for a corporate purpose by the corporate authorities of the city.
What has been said disposes of all the questions certified,
including that one relating to the coupon of a bond delivered
to the railroad company after the Constitution of 1870 went
into effect. In Q. 1. & P. B. B. Co. v. Morris all the bonds
there involved were executed and issued under an act passed in
1871. They were sustained upon the ground that the validity
of that act depended upon the power which the legislature possessed under the Constitution of 1848. That decision, it would
seem, determines the present case as to the coupon of the bond
delivered in November, 1870.
Judgment affirmed.

