Oct. 1882.]

SLAWSON v. GRAND STREET R.R. Co.

SLAWSON v. GRAND STREET RAILROAD ComPANY.
1. It is the duty of the court to dismiss a suit brought to restrain the infringement of letters-patent, where the device or contrivance for which they were
granted is not patentable, although such defence be not set up.
2. The invention described in reissued letters-patent No. 4240, granted to John
B. Slawson, Jan. 24, 1871, is not patentable, as it is confined to putting in
the ordinary fare-box used on a street car an additional pane of glass opposite to that next the driver, so that the passenger can see the interior of
the box. The letters are therefore void.
3. Letters-patent No. 121,920, granted to Elijah C. Middleton, Dec. 12, 1871, are
void. The fare-box, the head-light of the car, and the reflector are the
elements of the contrivance described in the specification and claim for
lighting the interior of the box at night, and they are old. What is covered
by the letters is not patentable, as it is simply making in the top of the box
an iperture through which the rays of the head-lamp are turned by means
of a reflector.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
This was a suit brought by John B. Slawson against the
Grand Street, Prospect Park, and Flatbush Railroad Company,
to restrain the infringement of two patents, one granted to him
as inventor, and the other held and owned by him as an
assignee.
The one first mentioned is a reissue, No. 4240, dated Jan. 24,
1871. The invention therein described is an improvement in
fare-boxes for receiving the fares of passengers in omnibuses
and street cars.
The specification describes the ordinary fare-box used in
street cars and omnibuses, consisting of two apartments, the
one directly above the other. This well-known contrivance,
the specification declares, was so arranged that the passenger
deposited his fare in an aperture in the top of the upper apartment. It fell upon and was arrested by a movable platform,
which constituted at the same time the bottom of the upper
apartment and the top of the lower. This platform turned on
an axis acted on by a lever. When turned, the fare fell into
the lower apartment, which was a receptacle for holding the
fares accumulated during the trip. Upon withdrawing the
lever, the platform resumed its horizontal position, ready to

SLAWSON v. GRAND STREET R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

arrest the next fare deposited. The upper apartment had a
glass panel on the side next the driver, so that he could see the
fare as it was deposited by the passenger. This contrivance
enabled the passenger to pay his own fare, and furnished a
place of safe deposit for it, so that it could not be abstracted by
the driver. It enabled the driver to scrutinize the fare after it
was deposited, and see that it was the proper ticket or the
right amount in genuine coin before it was passed into the general receiving-box.
The improvement described in the patent consists in the
insertion of a glass panel on that side of the upper apartment
of the box next to the inside of the car or omnibus, and opposite to the glass panel next the driver, so that when the fare is
temporarily arrested in the upper apartment the passenger can
see and examine it before it passes into the lower or receiving
apartment. The specification declares: " By this means disputes and contentions are prevented as to the sufficiency of the
amount deposited to pay the fare, or as to the genuineness of
the money or tickets used for that purpose. It also enables the
passenger, when he has unintentionally deposited more than
the amount of his fare, to call the attention of the driver to
that fact, so that he, should the passenger require the difference
to be paid back to him, may report the case to the proprietor
or his agent on reaching the end of the route, who will then
pay the difference to the passenger, who foi this purpose must
ride to the office at the end of the route."
The claim of the patent is thus stated: "A fare-box having
two compartments, into one of which the fare is first deposited
and temporarily arrested previously to its being deposited in
the other, when the former is provided with openings, covered
or protected by transparent media or devices, so arranged that
the passengers can see through one and the driver or conductor
through the other, in the manner substantially as and for the
purposes set forth."
The other patent, No. 121,920, granted to Elijah C. Middleton, assignee of James F. Winchell, and by the former assigned
to the complainant, bears date Dec. 12, 1871. It also is for an
improvement in fare-boxes. The specification declares as follows: "This improvement relates to the mode of illuminating

Oct. 1882.]

SLAWSON V. GRAND STREET R.R. Co.

651

the interior of a fare-box in street-railway cars or other vehicles
when used during the night, and it consists in the construction
of the fare-box with suitable openings and reflectors, arranged
and adapted to receive light from the ordinary head-lamp
placed above the fare-box, instead of requiring a separate lamp
to illuminate it as heretofore."
The specification then describes the improvement substantially thus: The ordinary fare-box, consisting of two apartments, one above the other, is constructed with an orifice in the
top of the upper apartment, said top forming the floor of the
lamp-chamber. The orifice is closed with a sheet of glass, to
prevent any access to the fare-box by that way. Immediately
above the orifice there is placed in the roof of the lamp-chamber a reflector, in such an oblique position that it will cause the
light which falls upon it to be thrown through the orifice into
the upper apartment of the fare-box, in which the fare is temporarily deposited. The claim is stated as follows: "Lighting
the interior of a fare-box at night by light obtained from the
head-lamp of the car thrown by a reflector, I, through an opening, H, in the head-lamp box, into the chamber for the temporary detention of the fare for inspection, substantially in the
manner and for the purpose set forth."
The answer denies that either of the improvements described
in the patents was infringed, and that the persons therein named
as the first inventors of said improvements are in fact the first
inventors thereof, and avers that said improvements had been
in public use and on sale in this country for more than two
years before the applications for patents therefor were respectively made.
Upon final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill on the
ground that the patents are void because the improvements
therein described do not embody invention within the meaning of the patent laws. From this decree the complainant
appealed.

Mr. Livingston Gifford and Mr. George Gifford for the
appellant.

Mr. David C. Van Cott and Mr. Albert G. McDonald for the
appellee.

SLAWSON V. GRAND STREET

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

MR.JUSTIE WOODS, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The appellant insists that the dismissal of a bill because the
inventions described in the patents were not patentable, when
no such defence was set up in the answer, is of doubtful propriety, and is a practice unfair to complainants.
The practice was sanctioned by this court in -Dunbarv.
fyers, 94 U. S.187. In that case the defence set up in the
answer was want of utility in the patented invention; that the
patentees were not the first inventors, &c. The Circuit Court
rendered a decree for the complainant for a large sum, which
this court reversed, with directions to the court below to dismiss
the bill on the ground, not set up in the answer, that the improvement described in the patent sued on did not embody or
require invention and was not patentable, and the patent was
therefore void.
And in Brown v. Piper, 91 id. 37, 44, this court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Swayne, said: "We think this patent was void
on its face" (because the improvement described therein
was not patentable), "and that the court might have stopped
short at that instrument, and, without looking beyond it
into the answers and testimony, sua sponte, if the objection
were not taken by counsel, well have adjudged in favor of the
defendant."
We think the practice thus sanctioned is not unfair or unjust
to the complainant in a suit brought on letters-patent. If
they are void because the device or contrivance described
therein is not patentable, it is the duty of the court to dismiss
the cause on that ground whether the defence be made or not.
It would ill become a court of equity to render a money decree
in his favor for the infringement of letters-patent which are
void on their face for want of invention. Every suitor in such
a cause should, therefore, understand that the question whether
the invention, which is the subject-matter in controversy, is
patentable or not is always open to the consideration of the
court, whether the point is raised by the answer or not.
We have considered the alleged improvements described in
the letters-patent set out in the complainant's bill, and agree
with the Circuit Court in its conclusion that neither of them

Oct. 1882.]

SLAWSON v. GRAND STREET R.R. Co.

involves invention, and that both the letters-patent are therefore void.
A glance at the specification and claim of the patent granted
to the complainant Slawson shows that the invention described
therein consists simply in the placing, in the ordinary fare-box
used on street cars and omnibuses, of a glass panel opposite to
the glass panel next the driver, usually inserted in such boxes.
The patent does not cover the fare-box, it does not cover the
insertion in the side of the fare-box next the driver of a glass
panel, nor a combination of these two elements. It consists
merely in putting an additional pane of glass in the fare-box
opposite the side next the driver, so that the passengers can
through it see the interior of the box. Such a contrivance does
not embody or require invention. It requires no more invention than the placing of an additional pane of glass in a showcase for the display of goods, or the putting of an additional
window in a room opposite one already there. It would occur
to any mechanic engaged in constructing fare-boxes, that it
might be advantageous to insert two glass panes, - one next
the driver and the other next the interior of the car. But this
would not be invention within the meaning of the patent law.
Hlotcllciss v. Greenwood, 11 How. 248; Phillips v. Page, 24
id. 164; Dunbar v. 3f)yers, ubli supra. It is not a combination of
the fare-box, having one glass panel with an additional glass
panel, but is a mere duplication of the glass panel. Doubtless, a fare-box with two glass panels, arranged as described
in the patent, is better than a fare-box with only one. But
it is not every improvement that embodies a patentable
invention. This rule was fairly illustrated in Stimpson v.
Woodman, 10 Wall. 117, in which it was held that where a
roller, in a particular combination, had been used before without particular designs on it, and a roller, with designs on it,
had been used in another combination, it was not a patentable
invention to place designs on the roller in the first combination, and that such a change, with the existing knowledge in
the art, involved simply mechanical skill, which is not patentable.
In Brown v. Piper,ubi supra,it was said, that when the
invention was simply the application by the patentees of an old

SLAWSON v. GRAND STREET

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ot.

process to a new subject, without any exercise of the inventive
faculty, and without the development of any idea which could
be deemed new and original in the sense of the patent law, it
was not patentable; and it was held that the application of a
process for preserving meats and fruit, which had previously
been used for preserving other perishable substances, was not
patentable.
In Atlantic Works v. Brady, ante, pp. 192, 200, a case much
in point, decided by this court at the present term, Mr. Justice
Bradley said: "The design of the patent laws is to reward
those who make some substantial discovery or invention which
adds to our knowledge and makes a step in advance in the
useful arts. It was never the object of those laps to grant a
monopoly for every trifling device, every shadow of a shade of
an idea which would naturally and spontaneously occur to any
skilled mechanic or operator in the ordinary progress of manufactures." And it was held that the placing of a screw for
dredging at the stem of a screw propeller, when the dredging
had been previously accomplished by turning the propeller
stern foremost and dredging with the propelling screw, was
not a patentable invention.
These authorities, and others that might be cited, are adverse
to the appellant's case, and clearly show that the contrivance
covered by the patent issued to him does not embody a patentable inventiofi.
The same authorities apply with equal force to the patent for
lighting the interior of the fare-box at night by using the headlight of the car for that purpose. The elements of the contrivance, namely, the fare-box, the head-light, and the reflector, are
all old. What is covered by'the patent is simply the making
of an aperture in the top of the fare-box and turning the rays
of the head-lamp through it into the box by means of a reflector.
In other words, it is the turning of the rays of light to the spot
where they are wanted by means of a reflector, and taking away
an obstruction to their passage. The facts of general knowledge
of which we take judicial notice teach us that devices similar
to this are as old as the use of reflectors. Taylor's Ev., sect.
4, note 2; Brown v. Piper,ubi supra. The new application of
them does not involve invention. We are of opinion that there

Oct. 1882.]

UNITED STATES V. BRITTON.

was nothing patentable in the contrivance described in the
second patent.
The result of our views is that the decree of the Circuit Court
Affirmed.
was right and must be

UNITED STATES v. BRITTON.
1. The counts of an indictment against the president of a national banking association for making such a false entry on its books as is punishable under
sect. 6209 of the Revised Statutes are sufficient if they are in the form
hereinafter set forth, post, p. 656, as the offence is thereby alleged in apt
terms, and with the requisite averments of time and place.
2. The counts which charge his fraudulent purchase of shares of the capital
stock of the association are bad if they either fail to state for whose use
the purchase was made, or if they state that it was made for thd use of the
association, or if they do not aver that it was not made in order to prevent
loss on some previously contracted debt.
3. The counts which charge him with having wilfully misapplied the funds of
the association should aver that he did so for the benefit of himself or
some person or body other than the association, and with intent to injure
or defraud the association or some other person or body corporate.
4. The counts which charge his fraudulent purchase of the shares of stock, and
allege that they were by him held "in trust for the use of said association,
and that said shares were not purchased as aforesaid in order to prevent
loss upon any debts theretofore contracted with said association in good
faith," do not allege with sufficient certainty an offence under said sect. 5209.
5. The purchase of stock in violation of sect. 6201, if made with intent to defraud, and by one or more of the officers of the bank named in said sect.
5209, is not a crime punishable under the latter section.
CERTIFICATE of division in opinion between the judges of

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri.
Section 5209 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
is as follows: "Every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk, or agent of any"
national banking "association who embezzles, abstracts, or wilfully
misapplies any of the moneys, funds, or credits of the association;
or who, without authority from the directors, issues or puts in circulation any of the notes of the association; or who, without such
authority, issues or puts forth any certificate of deposit, draws any
order or bill of exchange, makes any acceptance, assigns any note,
bond, draft, bill of exchange, mortgage, judgment, or decree; or

