Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURI.

KRING V. MISSOURI.

1. A. was convicted of murder in the first degree, and the judgment of condemnation was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Missouri. A previous
sentence pronounced on his plea of guilty of murder in the second degree,
and subjecting him to an imprisonment for twenty-five years, had, on his
appeal, been reversed and set aside. By the law of Missouri in force when
the homicide was committed this sentence was an acquittal of the crime
of murder in the first degree; but before his plea of guilty was entered
the law was changed, so that by force of its provisions, if a judgment on
that plea be lawfully set aside, it shall not be held to be an acquittal of
the higher crime. fHeld, that as to this case the new law was an ex post
facto law, within the meaning of sect. 10, art. 1, of the Constitution of the
United States, and that he could not be again tried for murder in the first
degree.
2. The history of the ex post facto clause of the Constitution reviewed in connection with its adoption as a part of the Constitution, and with its subsequent construction by the Federal and the State courts.
3. The distinction between retrospective laws, which relate to the remedy or the
mode of procedure, and those which operate directly on the offence, is unsound where, in the latter case, they injuriously affect any substantial right
to which the accused was entitled under the law as it existed when the
alleged offence was committed.
4. Within the meaning of the Constitution, any law is ex post facto which is
enacted after the offence was committed, and which, in relation to it
or its consequences, alters the situation of the accused to his disadvantage.

E nOR to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. effersoa ChiandIler and 111r. L. D. Seward for the plaintiff inerror.
lir.Samituel . Phillips for the defendant in error.
AIR. JUSTICE MILLEr delivered the opinion of the court.
Kring was indicted in the Criminal Court of St. Louis for
murder in the first degree, charged to have been committed
Jan. 4, 1875, and he pleaded not guilty. He has been tried
four times before a jury, and sentenced once on a plea of guilty
of murder in the second degree. His case has been three times
before the Court of Appeals, and three times before the Supreme Court of the State. In the last instance, the Supreme
Court affirmed the judgment by which he was found guilty

-RING

V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct.

of murder in the first degree and sentenced to be hung. He
thereupon brought the present writ of error.
It is to be premised that the Court of Appeals is an intermediate appellate tribunal between the Criminal Court of St.
Louis and the Supreme Court of the State, to which all appeals
of this character are first taken.
At the trial, immediately preceding the last one in the court
of original jurisdiction, the prisoner was permitted to plead
guilty of murder in the second degree. The plea was accepted
by the prosecuting' attorney and the court, and he was thereupon sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for twentyfive years. He took an appeal from the judgment on the
ground that he had an understanding with the prosecuting
attorney that if he would plead as he did, his sentence should
not exceed ten years' imprisonment. The Supreme Court
reversed the judgment, and remanded the case to the St. Louis
Criminal Court for further proceeding, where, when the case
was again called, he refused to withdraw his plea of guilty of
murder in the second degree, and refused to renew his plea of
not guilty, which had been withdrawn when he pleaded guilty
of murder in the second degree. The court, then, against his
remonstrance, made an order setting aside his plea of guilty of
murder in the second degree and directing a general plea of not
guilty to be entered. On this plea be was tried, found guilty,
and sentenced to death, and the judgment, as we have already
said, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.
By refusing to plead not guilty as charged in the indictment,
and to withdraw his plea of guilty of murder in the second
degree, the defendant raised the point that the proceedings
under that plea- namely, its acceptance by the prosecuting
attorney and the court, and his conviction and sentence under
it- were an acquittal of the charge of murder in the first degree, and that he could not be tried again for that offence.
This point he insisted on in the Circuit Court, the Court of
Appeals, and the Supreme Court.
Both these latter tribunals, in their opinions, which are a
part of the record, conceded that such was the law of the State
of Missouri at the time the homicide was committed. But
they overruled the defence on the ground that by sect. 23, art.

Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURI.

2, of the Constitution of Missouri, which took effect Nov. 30,
1875, that law was abrogated, and for this reason he could be
tried for murder in the first degree, notwithstanding his conviction and sentence for murder in the second degree.
As after the commission of the crime for which he was indicted this new constitution was adopted, and, as it is construed
by the Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court, it changes
the law as it then stood, to his disadvantage, the jurisdiction of
this court is invoked on the ground that, as to this case, and as
so construed, it is an ex post facto law, within the meaning of
sect. 10, art. 1, of the Constitution of the United States.
That it may be clearly seen what the Supreme Court of Missouri decided on this subject and what consideration they gave
it, we extract here all that is said in their opinion about it.
" There is nothing in the point," they say, "that after an
accepted plea of guilty of murder of the second degree the
defendant could not be put upon trial for murder of the first
degree. We shall, on that proposition, accept what is said by
the Court of Appeals in its opinion in this cause."
What that court said on this subject is as follows: "The theory of counsel for defendant that a plea of guilty of
murder in the second degree, regularly entered and received,
precludes the State from afterwards prosecuting the defendant
for murder in the first degree, is inconsistent with the ruling
of the Supreme Court in Stite v. Kring (71 Mo. 551), and in
State v. Stephtens (id. 535). The declarations of defendant
that he would stand upon his plea already entered were all
accompanied with a condition that the court should sentence
him for a term not to exceed ten years, in accordance with an
alleged agreement with the prosecuting attorney, which the
court would not recognize. The prisoner did not stand upon
his plea of guilty of murder in the second degree; he must,
therefore, be taken to have withdrawn that plea, and, as he
refused to plead, the court properly directed the plea of not
guilty of murder in the first degree to be entered.
"Formerly it was held in Missouri (State v. Ross, 29 Mo.
32) that, when a conviction is had of murder in the second
degree on an indictment charging murder in the first degree, if
this be set aside, the defendant cannot again be tried for mur-

]RING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct.

der in the first degree. A change introduced by sect. 23 of art.
2 of the Constitution of 1875 has abrogated this rule. On the
oral argument something was said by counsel for the defendant
to the effect that under the old rule defendant could not be put
on his trial for murder in the first degree, and that he could not
be affected by the change of the constitutional provision, the
crime having been committed whilst the old constitution was
in force. There is, however, nothing in this; this change is
a change not in crimes, but in criminal procedure, and such
changes are not ex post facto. Gut v. State, 9 Wall. 35;
Cummings v. Missouri, 4 id. 326.'
We have here a distinct admission that by the law of Missouri, as it stood at the time of the homicide, in consequence of
this conviction of the defendant of the crime of murder in the
second degree, though that conviction be set aside, he could not
be again tried for murder in the first degree. And that, but
for the change in the Constitution of the State, such would be
the law applicable to his case. When the attention of the
court is called to the proposition that if such effect is given to
the change of the Constitution, it would, in this case, be liable
to objection as an ex post facto law, the only answer is, that
there is nothing in it, as the change is simply in a matter of
procedure.
Whatever may be the essential nature of the change, it is one
which, to the defendant, involves the difference between life
and death, and the retroactive character of the change cannot
be denied.
It is to be observed that the force of the argument for acquittal does not stand upon defendant's plea, nor upon its acceptance
by the State's attorney, nor the consent of the court; but it
stands upon the judgment and sentence of the court by which
he is convicted of murder in the second degree, and sentence
pronounced according to the law of that guilt, which was by
operation of the same law an acquittal of the other and higher
crime of murder charged in the same indictment.
It is sufficient for this case that the Supreme Court of lissouri, in the opinion wb are examining, says it was so, and cites
as authority for it the case of State v. Boss, 29 Mo. 32, in the
same court; but counsel for plaintiff in error cites to the same

Oct. 1882.]

ORING v. MissoURI.

effect the cases of the State v. Ball, 27 Mo. 324; State v. Smith,

53 id. 139.
Blackstone says: "The plea of autrefoits convict, or a former
conviction for the same identical crime, though no judgment
was ever given, or, perhaps, will be (being suspended by benefit
of clergy or other causes), is a good plea in bar to an indictment. And this depends upon the same principle as the former
(that is, autrefoits acquit), that no man ought to be twice
brought in danger of his life for one and the same crime.
Hereupon it has been held that a conviction of manslaughter,
on an appeal or indictment, is a bar even in another appeal,
and much more in an indictment for murder; for the fact prosecuted is the same in both, though the offences differ in coloring
and degree." Bla. Com. Book 4, 336. See State v. Norvell,
2 Yerg. (Tenn.) 24; Campbell v. The State, 9 id. 333, 337.
This law, in force at the date of the homicide for which
Kring is now under sentence of death, was changed by the
State of Missouri between that time and his trial so as to
deprive him of its benefit, to which he would otherwise have
been entitled, and we are called on to decide whether in this
respect, and as applied by the court to this case, it is an ex post
facto law within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States.
There is no question of the right of the State of Missouri,
either by her fundamental law or by an ordinary act of legislation, to abolish this rule, and that it is a valid law as to all
offences committed after its enactment. The question here is,
Does it deprive the defendant of any right of defence which the
law gave him when the act was committed so that as to that
offence it is ex post facto ?
This term necessarily implies a fact or act done, after which
the law in question is passed. Whether it is ex post facto or
not relates, in criminal cases, to which alone the phrase applies,
to the time at which the offence charged was committed. If
the law complained of was passed before the commission of the
act with which the prisoner is charged, it cannot, as to that
offence, be an ex post facto law. If passed after the commission
of the offence, it is as to that ex post facto, though whether of
the class forbidden by the Constitution may depend on other
VOL. XVII.

15

KRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. ot.

matters. But so far as this depends on the time of its enactment, it has reference solely to the date at which the offence
was committed to which the new law is sought to be applied.
No other time or transaction but this has been in any adjudged
case held to govern its ex post facto character.
In the case before us an argument is made founded on a
change in this rule. It is said the new law in Missouri is not
ex postfacto, because it was in force when the plea and judgment were entered of guilty of murder in the second degree;
thus making its character as an ex postfacto law to depend, not
upon the date of its passage as regards the commission of the
offence, but as regards the time of pleading guilty. That, as
the new law was in force when the conviction on that plea was
had, its effect as to future trials in that case must be governed
by that law. But this is begging the whole question; for if it
-was as to the offence charged an ex post facto law, within the
true meaning of that phrase, it was not in force aid could not
be applied to the case, and the effect of that plea and conviction
must be decided as though no such change in the law had been
made.
Such, however, is not the ground on which the Supreme Court
and the Court of Appeals placed their judgment.
"There is nothing," say they, "in this; the change is a
change not in crimes, but in criminal procedure, and such
changes are not ex post facto."
Before proceeding to examine this proposition, it will be well
to get some clear perception of the purpose of the convention
which framed the Constitution in declaring that no State shall
pass any ex post facto law.
It was one of the objections most seriously urged against the
new constitution by those who opposed its ratification by the
States, that it contained no formal Bill of Rights. Federalist,
No. lxxxiv. And the State of Virginia accompanied her ratification by the recommendation of an amendment embodying
such a bill. 3 Elliot's Debates, 661.
The feeling on this subject led to the adoption of the first
ten amendments to that instrument at one time, shortly after
the government was organized. These are all designed to
operate as restraints on the general government, and most of

Oct. 1882.]

O

2RING
V. MISSOURI.

them for the protection of private rights of persons and property. Notwithstanding this reproach, however, there are many
provisions in the original instrument of this latter character,
among which is the one now under consideration.
So much importance did the convention attach to it, that it
is found twice in the Constitution, first as a restraint upon the
power of the general government, and afterwards as a limitation upon the legislative power of the States. This latter
is the first clause of section 10 of article 1, and its connection with other language in the same section may serve to
illustrate its meaning. "No State shall enter into any Treaty,
Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills oftCredit; make anything but
gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any
Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the
Obligation of Contracts; or grant any Title of Nobility."
It will be observed that here are grouped contiguously a
prohibition against three distinct classes of retrospective laws;
namely, bills of attainder, ex post facto laws, and laws impairing the obligation of contracts. As the clause was first adopted,
the words concerning contracts were not in it, because it was
supposed that the phrase ex post facto law included laws concerning contracts as well as others. But it was ascertained
before the completion of the instrument that this was a phrase
which, in English jurisprudence, had acquired a signification
limited to the criminal law, and the words "or law impairing the obligation of contracts" were added to give security to
rights resting in contracts. 2 Bancroft's History of the Constitution, 213.
Sir Thomas Tomlin, in that magazine of learning, the English edition of 1835 of his Law Dictionary, says: "Ex post facto is a term used in the law, signifying something done after, or arising from or to affect another thing that
was committed before."
"An ex post facto law is one which operates upon a subject
not liable to it at the time the law was made."
The first case in which this court was called upon to construe this provision of the Constitution was that of Calder v.
Bull, 3 Dall. 386, decided in 1798. The opinion was delivered

KRING V. MISSOURT.

[Sup. Ct.

by Mr. Justice Chase, and its main purpose was to decide that
the provision had no application to acts concerning civil rights.
It, however, is important, as it discusses very fully the meaning of the provision in its application to criminal cases. It
defines four distinct classes of laws embraced by the clause.
"1st, Every law that makes an action done before the passing of
the law, and which was innocent when done, criminal, and punishes such action. 2d, Every law that aggravates the crime or
makes it greater than it was when committed. 3d, Every law
that changes the punishment and inflicts a greater punishment
than was annexed to the crime when committed. 4th, Every
law that alters the legal rules of evidence, and receives less or
different testimony than the law required at the time of the
commission of the offence in order to convict the offender."
Again he says: " But I do not consider any law ex rost facto,
within the prohibition, that mollifies the rigor of the criminal
law; but only these that create or aggravate the crime; or
increase the punishment or change the rules of evidence for the
purpose of conviction."
In the case before us the Constitution of Missouri so changes
the rule of evidence, that what was conclusive evidence of innocence of the higher grade of murder when the crime was
committed, namely, a judicial conviction for a lower grade of
homicide, is not received as evidence at all, or, if received, is
given no weight in behalf of the offender. It also changes the
punishment, for, whereas the law as it stood when the homicide was committed was that, when convicted of murder in the
s6cond degree, he could never be tried or punished by death for
murder in the first degree, the new law enacts that he may be
so punished, notwithstanding the former conviction.
But it is not to be supposed that the opinion in that case
undertook to define, by way of exclusion, all the cases to which
the constitutional provision would be applicable.
Accordingly, in a subsequent case tried before Mr. Justice
Washington, he said, in his charge to the jury, that "an ex
postfacto law is one which, in its operation, makes that criminal which was not so at the time the action was performed;
or which increases the punishment, or, in short, which, in relation to the offence or its consequences, alters the situation of

Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURI.

a party to his disadvantage." United States v. Hall, 2 Wash.
366.
He adds, by way of application to that case, which was for
a violation of the embargo laws: "If the enforcing law applies
to this case, there can be no doubt that, so far as it takes away
or impairsthe defence which the law had provided the defendant
at the time when the condition of this bond became forfeited,
it is ex post facto and inoperative."
This case was carried to the Supreme Court and the judgment affirmed. 6 Cranch, 171.
The new Constitution of Missouri does take away what, by
the law of the State when the crime was committed, was a
good defence to the charge of murder in the first degree.
In the subsequent cases of Cummings v. the State of Mlissouri
and Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 277, 333, this court held that
a law which excluded a minister of the gospel from the exercise of his clerical function, and a lawyer from practice in the
courts, unless each would take an oath that they had not
engaged in or encouraged armed hostilities against the government of the United States, was an ex post facto law, because it
punished, in a manner not before punished by law, offences
committed before its passage, and because it instituted a new
rule of evidence in aid of conviction. This court was divided
in that case, the minority being of opinion that the act in
question was not a crimes act, and inflicted no punishment,
in the judicial sense, for any past crime, but they did not controvert the proposition that if the act had that effect it was
an ex postfacto law.
In these cases we have illustrations of the liberal construction which this court, and Mr. Justice Washington: in the
Circuit Court, gave to the words ex post facto law, - a construction in manifest accord with the purpose of the constitutional convention to protect the individual rights of life and
liberty against hostile retrospective legislation.
Nearly all the States of the Union have similar provisions in
their constitutions, and whether they have or not, they all
recognize the obligatory force of this clause of the Federal
Constitution on their legislation.
A reference to some decisions of those courts will show the

KRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct.

same liberality of construction of the provision, many of them
going much farther than is necessary to go in this case to show
the error of the Missouri courts.
In Commonwealth v. 111cDonough, 13 Allen (Mass.), 581, it
was held that a law passed after the commission of the offence
of which the defendant stood charged, which mitigated the
punishment, as regarded the fine and the maximum of imprisonment that might be inflicted, was an ex post facto law as to that
case, because the minimum of imprisonment was made three
months, whereas before there was no minimum limit to the
court's discretion. This slight variance in the law was held
to make it ex post facto and void as to that case, though the
effect of the decision was to leave no law by which the defendant could be punished, and he was discharged, though found
guilty of the offence.
In Hartung v. The People, 22 N. Y. 95, after the prisoner
had been convicted of murder and sentenced to death, and
while her case was pending on appeal, the legislature of that
State changed the law for the punishment of murder in general, so as to authorize the governor to postpone indefinitely
the execution of the sentence of death, and to keep the party
confined in the penitentiary at hard labor until he should
order the full execution of the sentence or should pardon or
commute it.
The Court of Appeals held that, while this later law repealed all existing punishments for murder, it was ex postfacto
as to that case, and could not be applied to it. This was decided in face of the fact that it resulted in the discharge of a
convicted murderess without any punishment at all.
Denio, J., in delivering the opinion of the court, makes these
excellent observations: "It is highly probable that it was the intention of the legislature to extend favor rather than increased severity towards
the convict and others in her situation; and it is quite likely
that, had they been consulted, they would have preferred the
application of this law to their cases rather than that which
existed when they committed the offences of which they are
convicted. But the case cannot be determined on such considerations. No one can be criminally punished in this country,

Oct. 1882.]

O RING V. MISSOURI.

except according to a law prescribedfor his government before
the supposed offence was committed, and which existed as a law
at that time. It would be useless to speculate upon the question whether this would be so upon the reason of the thing,
and according to the spirit of our legal institutions, because
the rule exists in the form of an express written precept, the
binding force of which no one disputes. No State shall pass
any ex post facto law is the mandate of the Constitution of the
United States."
This is reaffirmed by the same court in the cases of Shepherd
v. People, 25 N. Y. 406; Green v. SVhumway, 39 id. 418; and
In re Petty, 22 Kan. 477, decides the same thing. In State
v. eith, 63 N. C. 140, the Supreme Court of North Carolina
held that a law repealing a statute of general amnesty for
offences arising out of the rebellion was expostfacto and void,
though both statutes were passed after the acts were committed with which the defendant was charged.
In State v. Sneed, 25 Tex. Supp. 66, the court held that in
a criminal case barred by the Statute of Limitations, a subsequent statute which enlarged the time necessary to create a
bar was, as to that case, an expostfacto law, and it could not
be supposed to be intended to apply to it.
When, in answer to all this evidence of the tender regard
for the rights of a person charged with crime under subsequent
legislation affecting those rights, we are told 'that this very
radical change in the law of Missouri to his disadvantage is
not subject to the rule because it is a change, not in crimes,
but in criminal procedure, -we are led to inquire what that
court meant by criminal procedure.
The word "procedure," as a law term, is not well understood,
and is not found at all in Bouvier's Law Dictionary, the best
work of the kind in this country. Fortunately a distinguished
writer on Criminal Law in America has adopted it as the title
to a work of two volumes. Bishop on Criminal Procedure.
In his first chapter he undertakes to define what is meant by
procedure. He says: "S. 2. The term Iprocedure' is so broad
in its signification that it is seldom employed in our books as a
term of art. It includes in its meaning whatever is embraced
by the three technical terms, Pleading, Evidence, and Prac-

]KRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Or.

tice." And in defining Practice, in this sense, he says: "The
word means those legal rules which direct the course of proceeding to bring parties into the court and the course of the
court after they are brought in; " and Evidence, he says, as
part of procedure, "signifies those rules of law whereby we
determine what testimony is to be admitted and what rejected
in each case, and what is the weight to be given to the testimony admitted."
If this be a just idea of what is intended by the word "procedure" as applied to a criminal case, it is obvious that a law
which is one of procedure may be obnoxious as an ex post facto
law, both by the decision in Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, and
in Cummings v. Die State of lissouri,4 Wall. 277; for in the
former case this court held that "any law which alters the legal
rules of evidence, and receives less or different testimony than
the law requires at the time of the commission of the offence,
in order to convict the offender," is an ex post facto law; and
in the latter, one of the reasons why the law was held to be
ex post facto was that it changed the rule of evidence under
which the party was punished.
But it cannot be sustained without destroying the value of
the constitutional provision, that a law, however it may invade
or modify the rights of a party charged with crime, is not an
ex post facto law, if it comes within either of these comprehensive branches of the law designated as Pleading, Practice,
and Evidence.
Can the law with regard to bail, to indictments, to grand
juries, to the trial jury, all be changed to the disadvantage of
the prisoner by State legislation after the offence was committed, and such legislation not held to be ex post facto because
it relates to procedure, as it does according to Mr. Bishop?
And can any substantial right which the law gave the
defendant at the time to which his guilt relates be taken away
from him by ex post facto legislation, because, in the use of a
modern phrase, it is called a law of procedure? We think it
cannot.
Some light may be thrown upon this branch of the argument
by a recurrence to a few of the numerous decisions of the highest courts construing the associated phrase in the same sentence

Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURI.

of the Constitution which forbids the States to pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts. It has been held that
this prohibition also relates exclusively to laws passed after
the contract is made, and its force has been often sought to be
evaded by the argument that laws are not forbidden which
affect only the rened!y, if they do not change the nature of the
contract, or act directly upon it.
The analogy between this argument and the one concerning
laws of procedure in relation to the contiguous words of the
Constitution is obvious. But while it has been held that a
change of remedy made after the contract may be valid, it is
only so when there is substituted an adequate and sufficient
remedy by which the contract may be enforced, or where such
remedy existed and remained unaffected by the new law.
Tennessee v. Sneed, 96 U. S. 69.
On this point it has been held that laws are void enacted
after the date of the contract :1. Which give the debtor a longer stay of execution after
judgment. Blair v. Williams, 4 Litt. (Ky.) 34; McIinney
v. Carroll, 5 Mon. (Ky.) 96.
2. Which require on a sale of his property under execution
an appraisement, and a bid of two-thirds the value so ascertained. Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311; feC'racken v. Hay
1ward, 2 id. 608; Sprott v. Reid, 3 Greene (Iowa), 489.
3. Which allow a period of redemption after such sale.
Lapsley v. Brashears,4 Litt. (Ky.) 47; Cargillv. Power, 1 Mich.
369; Robinson v. Howe, 13 Wis. 341.
4. Which exempt from sale under judgment for the debt a
larger amount of the debtor's property than was exempt when
the debt was contracted. Edwards v. Kearze, 96 U. S. 595,
and the cases there cited; Story's Commentary on the Constitution, sect. 1385.
There are numerous similar decisions showing that a change
of the law which hindered or delayed the creditor in collecting
his debt, though it related to the remedy or mode of procedure
by which it was to be collected, impaired the obligation of
the contract within the meaning of the Constitution.
Why is not the right to life and liberty as sacred as the
right growing out of a contract? Why should not the contig-

KRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct.

uous and associated words in the Constitution, relating to retroactive laws, on these two subjects, be governed by the same
rule of construction? And why should a law, equally injurious to the rights of the party concerned, be under the same
circumstances void in one case and not in the other?
But it is said that at the time the prisoner pleaded guilty of
murder in the second degree, and at the time he procured the
reversal of the judgment of the criminal court on that plea,
the new constitution was in force, and he was bound to know
the effect of the change in the law on his case.
We do not controvert the principle that he was bound to
know and take notice of the law. But as regards the effect of
the plea and the judgment on it, the Constitution of Missouri
made no change.
It still remained the law of Missouri, as it is the law of
every State in the Union, that so long as the judgment rendered on that plea remained in force, or after it had been executed, the defendant was liable to no further prosecution for
any charge found in that indictment.
Such was the law when the crime was committed, such was
the law when he pleaded guilty, such is the law now in Missouri and everywhere else. So that, in pleading guilty under
an agreement for ten years' imprisonment, both he and the
prosecuting attorney and the court all knew that the result
would be an acquittal of all other charges but that of murder
in the second degree.
Did he waive or annul this acquittal by prosecuting his
writ of error? Certainly not by that act, for if the judgment
of the lower court sentencing him to twenty-five years' imprisonment had been affirmed, no one will assert that he could
still have been tried for murder in the first degree. Nor
was there anything else done by him to waive this acquittal. He refused to withdraw his plea of guilty. It was
stricken out by order of the court against his protest. He refused then to plead not guilty, and the court in like manner,
against his protest, ordered a general plea of not guilty to be
filed. He refused to go to trial on that plea, and the court
forced him to trial.
The case rests, then, upon the proposition that, having an

Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURI.

erroneous sentence rendered against him on the plea accepted
by the court, he could only take the steps which the law
allowed him to reverse that sentence at the hazard of subjecting himself to the punishment of death for another and a different offence of which he stood acquitted by the judgment of
that court.
That he prosecuted his legal right to a review of that sentence with a halter around his neck, when, if he succeeded in
reversing it, the same court could tighten it to strangulation,
and if he failed, it did him no good. And this is precisely
what has occurred. His reward for proving the sentence of
the court of twenty-five years' imprisonment (not its judgment
on his guilt) to be erroneous, is that he is now to be hanged
instead of imprisoned in the penitentiary. No such result
could follow a writ of error before, and as to this effect the
new constitution is clearly ex post facto. The whole error,
which results in such a remarkable conclusion, arises from
holding the provision of the new constitution applicable to this
case, when the law is ex postfacto and inapplicable to it.
If Kring or his counsel were bound to know the law when
they prosecuted the writ of error, they were bound to know it as
we have expounded it. If they knew that by the words of the
new constitution such a judgment of acquittal as he had when
he undertook to reverse it would be no longer an acquittal after
it was reversed, they also knew that, being as to his case an ex
postfacto law, it could have no such effect on that judgment.
We are of opinion that any law passed after the commission
of an offence which, in the language of Mr. Justice Washington,
in United States v. Hall, "in relation to that offence, or its consequences, alters the situation of a party to his disadvantage,"
is an ex post facto law; and in the language of Denio, J., in
Hart ig v. Te People, "No one can be criminally punished in
this country, except according to a law prescribed for his government by the sovereign authority before the imputed offence
was committed, and which existed as a law at the time."
Tested by these criteria, the provision of the Constitution of
Missouri which denies to plaintiff in error the benefit which
the previous law gave him of acquittal of the charge of murder
in the first degree, on conviction of murder in the second

KRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct,

degree, is, as to his case, an ex post facto law within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, and for the error
of the Supreme Court of Missouri, in holding otherwise, its
judgment will be reversed, and the case remanded to it, with
direction to reverse the judgment of the Criminal Court of St.
Louis, and for such further proceedings as are not inconsistent
with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS, with whom concurred MR. CHIEF
JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, and MR. JUSTICE

GRAY, dissenting.
The Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Bradley, Mr. Justice Gray,
and myself are unable to concur in the judgment and opinion
of the court in this case, and the importance of the question
determined constrains us to state the grounds of our dissent.
The material facts are these: The plaintiff in error, at March
Term, 1875, of the St. Louis Criminal Court, was indicted for
murder in the first degree. On his arraignment he pleaded
"not guilty." At the November Term of the same year a trial
was had, which resulted in a verdict of guilty of murder in
the first degree, and a seitence of death. That judgment was
reversed on appeal,, and twice subsequently there were mistrials. On Nov. 12, 1879, the defendant, by consent of the
circuit attorney and leave of the court, withdrew his plea of
not guilty and entered a plea of guilty of murder in the second
degree. He was thereupon sentenced to imprisonment in the
penitentiary for a term of twenty-five years. The prisoner
then filed a motion to set aside this judgment and sentence,
and to allow him to withdraw the plea of guilty of murder in
the second decree and to permit him" to have his original plea
of not guilty entered of record to the end that he may have a
trial upon the merits of his case before a jury." In support of
this motion reasons were assigned, in substance, that he had
withdrawn his original plea of not guilty and entered the plea
of guilty of murder in the second degree, upon the faith of an
understanding previously had with the circuit attorney representing the prosecution, that if he would do so the sentence
should not exceed ten years in the penitentiary, which under-

Oct. 1882.]

O

2RING
V. MISSOURI.

standing was violated by the sentence complained of. The
court overruled the motion, but on appeal the judgment was
reversed on the ground alleged by the prisoner, that he had
been misled, and the cause was remanded for further proceedings. On receipt of this mandate, the trial court, the prisoner
refusing to withdraw his plea of guilty of murder in the second
degree and to enter a plea of not guilty, entertained the motion
previously made by him, for refusing- to grant which the judgment had thus been reversed, and granted it, setting aside the
plea of guilty, and, the prisoner standing mute, ordered a plea
of not guilty to be entered. On this plea a trial was had at
October Term, 1881, when he was found guilty of murder in
the first degree and again sentenced to death. An appeal was
prosecuted from this judgment, which, however, was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Missouri, and is brought here for
examination by the present writ of error, on the ground that
it has been rendered in violation of a right secured to him by
the Constitution of the United States.
The right which it is alleged has been violated is supposed
to arise in this way. At the time of the commission of the
offence in 1875, it was well established as the law of Missouri,
by the decisions of the Supreme Court of the State, that
"when a person is indicted for murder in the first degree, and
is put upon his trial and convicted of murder in the second
degree and a new trial is ordered at his instance, he cannot
legally be put upon his trial again for the charge of murder in
the first degree; he can be put upon his trial only upon the
charge of murder in the second degree." State v. Boss, 29
Mko. 32; State v. Smith, 53 id. 139. And it is not denied
that a plea of guilty of murder in the second degree, accepted
by the State, would have been at that time equally an acquittal
of the charge of murder in the first degree, having the same
force as to future trials as a conviction of murder in the second
degree, although the judgment should be reversed on the application of the prisoner.
On Nov. 30, 1875, the State of Missouri adopted a new constitution, which contained (sect. 23, art. 2) the provision, that,
"if judgment on a verdict of guilty be reversed for error in
law, nothing herein contained shall prevent a new trial of the

KRING V. MISSOURL

[Sup. Ct.

prisoner on a proper indictment, or according to con'ect principles of law."
In the case of State v. Simms, 71 Mo. 538, it was decided
that this provision overthrows the rule laid down in the case
of State v. Boss, ubi supra, and was "equivalent to declaring
that when such judgment is reversed for error at law, the trial
had is to be regarded as a mistrial, and that the cause, when
remanded, is put on the same footing as a new trial, as if the
cause had been submitted to a jury, resulting in a mistrial by
the discharge of the jury in consequence of their inability to
agree on a verdict."
The rule thus introduced by the Constitution of 1875 was
the one applied in the trial of the prisoner, instead of that previously in force; and the contention is, that to apply it in a
case such as the present, where the alleged offence was committed prior to the adoption of the new constitution, is to give
it operation as an ex post facto law, in violation of the prohibition of the Constitution of the United States.
In examining this proposition it must constantly be borne in
mind, that the plea of guilty of murder in the second degree,
the legal effect of which, when admitted, is the precise subject
of the question, was entered long after the new rule established by the Constitution of Missouri took effect; that the
prisoner himself moved to set it aside, and for leave to renew
his plea of not guilty, on the ground that he had been misled into making his plea of guilty under circumstances that
would make it operate as a fraud upon his rights, if it were
permitted to stand; and that, because the court denied this
motion, he made and prosecuted his appeal for a reversal of
its judgment, in full view of the rule, then in force, of the
application of which he now complains, which expressly declared what should be the effect of such a reversal.
The classification of ex post facto laws first made by Mr.
Justice Chase, in Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 886, 390, seems to
have been generally accepted. It is as follows: "1st, Every
law that makes an action done before the passing of the law,
and which was innocent when done, criminal, and punishes
such action. 2d, Every law that aggravates , crime or makes
it greater than it was when committed. 3d, Every law that

Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURI.

changes the punishment, and inflicts a greater punishment
than the law annexed to the crime when committed. 4th,
Every law that alters the legal rules of evidence, and receives
less or different testimony than the law required at the time of
the commission of the offence, in order to convict the offender."
This definition was the basis of the opinion of the court in
Cumming8 v. The State of Mi8souri, 4 Wall. 277, and Ex yarte
Garland, id. 333, and was expressly relied on in the opinion of
the dissenting judges, which says: "This exposition of the
nature of ex post facto laws has never been denied, nor has any
court or any commentator on the Constitution added to the
classes of laws here set forth, as coming within that clause of
the organic law." p. 391.
Now, under which of these heads does the controverted rule
of the 'Missouri Constitution fall? It cannot be contended
that it is embraced in either of the first three. If in any, it
must be covered by the fourth. But what rule of evidence,
existing at the time of the commission of the offence, is altered
to the disadvantage of the prisoner? The answer made is this:
that, at that time, an accepted plea of guilty of murder in the
second degree was conclusive proof that the prisoner was
not guilty of murder in the first degree, and that it was abrogated, so as to deprive the prisoner of the benefit of it. But
-while that rule was in force, the prisoner had no such evidence
of which he could avail himself. How, then, has he been
deprived of any benefit from it? He had not, during the
period while the rule was in force, entered any plea of guilty of
murder in the second degree, and no such plea had been admitted by the State. All that can be said is, that if, while the rule
was in force he had entered such a plea with the consent of
the State, its legal effect would have been as claimed, and by
its change he has lost what advantage he would have had in
such a contingency. But it does not follow that such a contingency would have happened. It was not within the power
of the prisoner to bring it about, for it required the concurrence and consent of the State; and it cannot be assumed that,
under such a rule and in such a case, that consent would have
been given. It is not enough to say that, under a ruling of the
court, a party might have lost the benefit of certain evidence,

KRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ot.

if such evidence had existed. To predicate error in such a
case, it must be shown that the party had evidence of which,
in fact, he has been illegally deprived. Such a case would
have been presented here, if the plea of guilty of murder. in
the second degree had been entered and accepted before the
Constitution of 1875 took effect and while the old rule was in
force. Then the law would have taken effect upon the transaction between the prisoner and the prosecution, in the acceptance of his plea; the status of the prisoner would have been
fixed and declared ; he would have stood acquitted of record of
the charge of murder in the first degree; and the new rule
would have been an ex post facto law if it had made him liable
to conviction and punishment for an offence of which by law
he bad been declared to be innocent.
But, in the circumstances of the present case, the evidence,
of which it is said the prisoner has been deprived, came into
being after the law had been changed. It was evidence created by the law itself, for it consists simply in a technical inference; and the law in force when it was created necessarily
determines its quality and effect. That law did not operate
upon the offence to change its character; nor upon its punishment to aggravate it; nor upon the evidence which, according
to the law in force at the time of its commission, was competent to prove or disprove it. It operated upon a transaction
between the prisoner and the prosecution, which might or
might not have taken place; which could not take place without mutual consent; and when it did take place, that consent
must be supposed to have been given by both with reference
to the law as it then existed, and not with reference to a law
which had then been repealed.
It is the essential characteristic of an expost facto law that
it should operate retrospectively, so as to change the law in
respect to an act or transaction already complete and past.
Such is not the effect of the rule of the Constitution of Missouri now in question. As has been shown, it does not, in any
particular, affect the crime charged, either in its definition,
punishment, or proof. It simply declares what shall be the
legal effect, in the future, of acts and transactions thereafter
taking place. It enacts that any future erroneous and unlaw-

Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURT.

ful conviction for a less offence, thereafter reversed on the
application of the accused, shall be held for naught, to all intents and purposes, and shall not, after such reversal, operate
as a technical acquittal of any higher grade of crime, for which
there might have been a conviction under the same indictment.
It imposes upon the prisoner no penalty or disability. It cannot affect the case of any individual, except upon his own request, for he must take the first step in its application. When
he pleads guilty of murder in the second degree, he knows
that its acceptance cannot operate as an acquittal of the higher
offence. When he asks to have the conviction reversed, he
understands that if his application is granted, the judgment
must be set aside with the same effect as if it had never been
rendered. It does not touch the substance or merits of his
defence, and is in itself a sensible and just rule in criminal
procedure.
And, "so far as mere modes of procedure are concerned,"
says Jiudge Cooley, Const. Lim. 272, "a party has no more
right in a criminal than in a civil action to insist that his case
shall be disposed of under the law in force when the act to be
investigated is charged to have taken place. Remedies must
always be under the control of the legislature, and it would
create endless confusion in legal proceedings if every case was
to be conducted only in accordance with the rules of practice,
and heard only by the courts, in existence when its facts arose.
The legislature may abolish courts and create new ones, and it
may prescribe altogether different modes of procedure in its
discretion, though it cannot lawfully, we think, in so doing,
dispense with any of those substantial protections with which
the existing law surrounds the person accused of crime. Statutes giving the government additional challenges, and others
which authorized the amendment of indictments, have been
sustained and applied to past transactions, as doubtless would
be any similar statute calculated merely to improve the remedy,
and in its operation working no injustice to the defendant and
depriving him of no substantial right." Accordingly it was
held by this court, in Gut v. Te State, 9 Wall. 85, in the
language of Mr. Justice Field, delivering its opinion, that "a
law changing the place of trial from one county to another
VOL. XVII.

16

KRING V. MISSOUR.[

[Sup. Ot.

county in the same district, or even to a different district from
that in which the offence was committed or the indictment
found, is not an ex post facto law, though passed subsequent to
the commission of the offence or the finding of the indictment." And in the case of z parte McCardle, 7 Wall. 506,
it was the unanimous decision of the court, that it was competent for Congress, in a case affecting personal liberty, to deprive the complaining patty of the benefit of an appeal from
the judgment of an inferior court, after his appeal had taken
effect and while it was pending. It would have been equally
competent for the Constitution of Missouri to have declared
that no appeal or writ of error should thereafter be allowed to
reverse the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction in
any pending criminal cause, which certainly would be giving
a different, because irreversible, effect to that judgment from
what such judgments would have had under the law in force
when the offence was committed. If it be true, in the logic of
the law, as it is in all its other applications, that the greater
includes the less, then it was competent for that constitution
to provide that, as to all judgments in criminal cases thereafter
rendered, which should be reversed for error, on the appeal of
the defendant, the effect of the reversal should 'be such as not
to be a bar to a subsequent conviction for any crime described
in the indictment; for that would have been to say, not that
there shall be no appeal at all, but that if an appeal is taken
its effect shall only be such as is prescribed in the law allowing it.
In Commonwealth v. Holley, 3 Gray (Mass.), 458, Shaw,
C. J., said: "The object of the Declaration of Rights was to
secure substantial privileges and benefits to parties criminally
charged; not to require particular forms, except where they
are necessary to the purposes of justice and fair dealing towards
persons accused, so as to insure a full and fair trial." And in
Commonwealthl v. Ball, 97 Mass. 570, the court, speaking of
a statutory provision authorizing the amendment of indictments, so as to allege a former conviction, the effect of which
was to increase the penalty, said: "We entertain no doubt of
the constitutionality of this section, which promotes the ends
of justice by taking away a purely technical objection, while

Oct . 1882.]

O RING

V. MISSOURi.

it leaves the defendant fully and fairly informed of the nature
of the charge against him, and affords him ample opportunity
for interposing every meritorious defence. Technical and formal objections of this nature are not constitutional rights."
These observations, it is not necessary to point out, are entirely applicable to the present argument.
Still stronger and more to the point is what was said by
Shaw, C. J., in Jacquins v. Commonwealth, 9 Cush. (Mass.)
279, where it was held that a statute authorizing the Supreme
Judicial Court, on a writ of error, on account of error in the
sentence, to render such judgment therein as should have been
rendered, applied to past judgments, and was not, on that account, an ex postfacto law. That eminent judge said: "It was
competent for the legislature to take away writs of error altogether, in cases where the irregularities are formal and technical only, and to provide that no judgment should be reversed
for such cause. It is more favorable to the party to provide
that he may come into court upon the terms allowed by this
statute, than to exclude him altogether. This act operates
like the act of limitations. Suppose an act was passed that no
writ of error should be taken out after the lapse of a certain
period. It is contended that such an act would be unconstitutional, on the ground that the right of the convict to have his
sentence reversed upon certain conditions had once vested.
But this argument overlooks entirely the well-settled distinction between rights and remedies."
Precisely the same distinction between laws ex post facto
and those which merely affect the remedy, and are, therefore,
applicable to the case of an offence previously committed, is
well illustrated by the case of Ratzkcy v. The People, 29 N. Y.
124. There the prisoner had been convicted of murder in the
first degree; the offence was committed when the act of 1860
was in force, which prescribed the mode of punishment; he
was sentenced, however, in accordance with the terms of an act
passed in 1862, subsequently to the commission of the offence,
and which prescribed a different mode of punishment. On
this account the judgment was held to be erroneous and was
reversed, on the ground that the act of 1862, applied to offences previously committed, was ex post facto. But at the

KRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ot.

time of the commission of the offence, in 1861, it was the wellsettled law of New York, as decided in Shepherd v. The People, 25 N. Y. 406, that when a wrong judgment had been
pronounced, although the trial and conviction were regular,
the prisoner could not, on reversal of the judgment, be subject
to another trial, but would be entitled to his discharge. But, on
April 24, 1863, after the prisoner had been tried and convicted,
but before judgment and sentence were pronounced, an act of
the legislature took effect, which provided that the appellate
court should have power, upon any writ of error, when it
should appear that the conviction had been legal and regular,
to remit the record to the court in which such conviction had
been had, to pass such sentence thereon as the appellate court
should direct. But for the authority conferred by this act, the
Court of Appeals stated that it would have had no power,
upon reversal of the judgment of the Supreme Court, either to
pronounce the appropriate judgment, or remit the record to the
oyer and terminer to give such judgment; but, on the contrary,
would have been obliged to have discharged him, the law not
authorizing another trial. Nevertheless, the Court of Appeals
gave effect to the act of 1863, reversed the judgment, and sent
the record down with directions to sentence the prisoner to
death, in accordance with the provisions of the act of 1860,
holding that the act of 1863 was not an ex post facto law.
And yet it deprived the prisoner of the benefit of a rule of law,
in force at the time the offence was committed; viz., that if he
should be erroneously sentenced and the judgment should be
reversed, he would be entitled to be discharged and forever after
protected against further prosecution for the same offence, as
well as against any second judgment upon the same verdict.
This decision deserves particular consideration, for it involves the very question under discussion. At the time of the
commission of his offence, and at the time of his trial and conviction, a rule of law in New York bad been well established,
that upon a reversal of judgment in a capital case, for error in
the sentence, the prisoner was entitled to be discharged, and
his former conviction, notwithstanding the reversal, -was a conclusive defence upon any subsequent trial for the same offence.
After trial and conviction a statute was passed which abrogated

Oct. 1882.]

O 2RINGV. MISSOURI.

that rule and declared that a subsequent reversal of judgment
for error merely in the sentence should not have that effect,
but that, even without a new trial, a new judgment might be
entered upon the verdict. This gave to the verdict and to the
subsequent proceeding an effect entirely different from what
they would have had under the law as it stood at the time of
the commission of the offence, and deprived the prisoner of
the advantage of the rule then in force. After that statute
took effect he prosecuted a writ of error and reversed the judgment for error in the sentence, and it was held that the effect
of that reversal was determined by the law in force when it
was rendered, and not by the law in force when the trial and
verdict were had and when the offence was committed.
Davies, J., said, p. 132: "It would follow from these considerations and the authority of the case of The People v. Shepherd, 25 N. Y. 406, that a wrong judgment having been
pronounced, although the trial and conviction were regular,
this prisoner could not be subjected to another trial and would
be entitled to his discharge. That would unquestionably be
so but for the act of April 24, 1863. . . . In the present case
that act became operative before the judgment and sentence
were pronounced and given and before the writ of error was
prosecuted to this court. It was, therefore, in force when the
writ of error in this case was prosecuted, and its provisions are
applicable to the duty imposed upon this tribunal by virtue of
that proceeding. . . . But for the authority conferred upon
this court by that statute it would have had no power, upon
reversal of the judgment of the Supreme Court, either to pronounce the appropriate judgment or remit the record to the
oyer and terminer to give such judgment."
And Denio, C. J., said: "The remaining question is, whether
the judgment should be reversed and the prisoner discharged,
according to the former rule, or the record be remitted to the
oyer and terminer to pass a legal sentence upon the conviction.
This latter course is now authorized by statute. Laws 1863,
c. 226, p. 406. The conviction was legal- and the sentence
only was erroneous. The only question is, whether the act,
having been passed after the conviction, though before judgment was given in the Supreme Court, could be applied to the

246

KRING v. MISSOUnR.

[Sup. Ct.

case. I am of opinion that it can be applied. The forms of
judicial proceedings are under the control of the legislature."
And the court accordingly, instead of ordering the prisoner to
be discharged, according to the rule in force at the time the
offence was committed, and even at the time of his trial and
conviction, directed the record to be remitted to the Court of
Oyer and Terminer with instructions to sentence him to suffer
death for the crime of which he had been convicted.
The counterpart and complement of the decision in Ratzky's
case are found in Hartung v. The People. There the prisoner
had been convicted of murder and sentenced to death; but at
the time the judgment was rendered the law in force at the
time of the commission of the offence providing for its punishment had been repealed, and the repealing act substituted a different punishment. It was on this account adjudged to be an
ex. post facto law and void, and the judgment was reversed.
22 N. Y. 95. Subsequently the repealing act was itself repealed, and the former act in force when the offence was committed was restored. Then the prisoner was again tried,
having pleaded a former conviction, but was found guilty and
adjudged to suffer death in accordance with the law existing
at the time the offence was committed. This judgment was
thereupon reversed, and the prisoner ordered to be discharged,
on the ground that the act restoring the law as it stood when
the offence was committed was an expost facto law, because at
the time it was passed the prisoner had been adjudged to be
legally free from punishment of any kind on account of her
offence. 26 id. 167. The very point of the decision was,
that while it was competent for the legislature to repeal the
repealing act so that it could not thereafter be availed of, it
could not destroy the effect of a judgment actually pronounced,
while that act was in force. It is manifest that if in that case
the prisoner had :hot been fried at all until after the law had
been thus twice changed, she could not have claimed to have
had the vested interest in the first repealing act, which was
allowed to her in. the judgment actually rendered when it
was in force. It was because the subsequent law, if applied,
would have changed the legal effect of that judgment, that it
was adjudged to be an ex postfacto law.

Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURI.

It was precisely upon this principle that the Supreme Court
of North Carolina proceeded in the case of State v. Yeith, 63
N. C. 140. There the prisoner, in custody on a charge of
murder, moved for a discharge, on the ground that his offence
was -within the provisions of the amnesty act of 1866-67.
This was admitted to be the case, but the motion was opposed
on the ground that the amnesty act had been repealed. It
was held that the effect of the pardon was, so far as the State
was concerned, to destroy and entirely efface the previous
offence, as if it had never been committed; and that to give to
the repeal of the amnesty act the effect, as claimed, of reviving
the offence, would make it an ex postfacto law, making criminal that which, when. it took effect, was not so, and taking
from the prisoner his vested right to immunity.
But suppose in that case the provisions of the amnesty act
had been conditional and not absolute, so that no one could
plead its pardon unless he had taken certain formal preliminary
steps to obtain the benefit of its terms, and that before the
prisoner had done so the act had been repealed. Could it be
claimed that in that event he had obtained a vested right to
immunity, and that its repeal operated as an ex post facto law?
Clearly not. And in reference to this case, it is also to be
observed, that the fact, the legal character of which was
changed by the subsequent law, was the fact of pardon, and
not a fact which existed at the time of the commission of the
offence. The repealing act was ex post facto, because it had
the effect to change the legal character of the facts as they
existed at the time of its passage.
In State v. Arlin, 39 N. H. 179, a prisoner was indicted for
a robbery, which at the time of its commission was punishable
by imprisonment for life; but by the same law he was entitled
to have counsel assigned him by the government, process to
compel the attendance of witnesses, and other similar privileges. A subsequent law mitigated the severity of the punishment and repealed the act giving these privileges. It was held
that the act was not ex post facto, because it changed the punishment to the advantage of the prisoner, and that he was not
entitled to the incidental benefits secured by the law in force
when the offence was committed. The court remarked, that

IKRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct.

by committing the offence the prisoner had not acquired a
vested right to enjoy the privileges to which he would have
been entitled if tried under the law subjecting him to imprisonment for life.
The rule of law in Missouri, the benefit of which is claimed
for the prisoner in this proceeding, notwithstanding its repeal
by the Constitution of the State before it could have been
applied in his case, was established, not by statute, but by a
series of judicial decisions of the Supreme Court of the State.
Those decisions might at any time have been reversed by the
same tribunal, and a new rule introduced, such as that actually
declared by the Constitution. In that event, could it be said,
with any plausibility, that the later decisions, reversing the
law as previously understood, could not be applied to all subsequent proceedings in cases where, upon a plea of guilty of
murder in the second degree thereafter entered and accepted, an
erroneous judgment thereon had been reversed, notwithstanding,
when the offence was committed, the prior decisions had been
in force? Would the new rule, as introduced and applied by the
later judicial decisions, be in violation of the prohibition of the
Constitution of the United States against ex post facto laws?
But the Constitution of Missouri has done no more than this.
The nature and operation of the rule are not affected by any
peculiarity in the authority which establishes it. If it is not
objectionable as an expost facto law, when introduced by judicial
decision, it is because it is not so in its nature; and, if not, it does
not become so when introduced by a legislative declaration.
There are doubtless many matters of mere procedure which
are of vital consequence; but in respect to them the power of
Congress, as to crimes against the United States, is restrained
by positive and specific limitations, carefully inserted in the
organic law, prohibiting unreasonable searches and seizures,
and general warrants, providing that no one shall be held to
answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a
presentment or indictment of a grand jury, except in cases
arising in the military service; that no person shall, for the
same offence, be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb, nor be
compelled to testify against himself ; that every accused person
shall be secured in the right to a public trial by an impartial

Oct. 1882.]

KRING V. MISSOURI.

jury in a previously ascertained district, in which the alleged
offence is charged to have been committed; to be informed of
the nature and cause of the accusation, to be confronted with
the witnesses against him, to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of
counsel for his defence. But these are limitations upon the
legislative power of the United States, whether prospective or
retrospective, and not upon that of the States; and although
the constitutions of all the States probably have equivalent
guarantees of individual rights, the violation of none of them
by a State tribunal, under State legislation, could present a case
for the exercise of supervisory jurisdiction by this court. The
prohibition against bills of attainder is the only one of this class
which applies to both the government of the United States and
those of the States; and while a bill of attainder may be an ex
po8t facto law, it is not necessarily so, as it may be merely a matter of procedu'e, a trial by a legislative instead of a judicial body.
But, in addition to these matters of procedure, which are
specially protected against legislative change, either for the
past or the future, there may be others, in which changes
with a retrospective effect are forbidden by the prohibition
against ex postfacto laws. Such, we have already seen, would
be laws which authorize conviction upon less evidence than
was required at the time of the commission of the offence, or
which altered, to the disadvantage of the accused, the nature
and quantity of proof at that time required to substantiate a
legal defence; or which, in other words, gave to the circumstances which constituted and attended the act a legal signification more injurious to the accused than was attached to
them by the law existing at the time of the transaction.
It is doubtless quite true that it is difficult to draw the line
in particular cases beyond which legislative power over remedies and procedure cannot pass without touching upon the
substantial rights of the parties affected, as it is impossible to
fix that boundary by any general words. The same difficulty
is encountered, as the same principle applies, in determining,
in civil cases, how far the legislature may modify the remedy
without impairing or enlarging the obligation of contracts.
Every case must be decided upon its own circumstances, as the

KRING V. MISSOURI.

[Sup. Ct.

question continually arises and requires an answer. But it is
a familiar principle, that, before rights derived under public
laws have become vested in particular individuals, the State,
for its own convenience and the public good, may amend or
repeal the law without just cause of complaint. "The power
that authorizes or proposes to give," said Woodbury, J., in
lMerrill v. Sherburne, 1 N. H. 199, 213, "may always revoke
before an interest is perfected in the donee." Accordingly the
heir apparent loses no legal right if, before descent cast, the law
of descents is changed so as to shift the inheritance to another,
however his expectations may be disappointed. And while it
-would be a violation of the constitutional maxim which forbids
retrospective legislation inconsistent with vested rights to deprive, by a repeal of statutes of limitation, a defendant of a
defence which had become perfect while they were in force; yet
if, before the bar had become complete, he should be deprived
of an expected defence, by an extension of time in which suit
might be brought, he would have no just cause to object that lie
was compelled to meet the case of his adversary upon its merits.
In respect to criminal offences it is undoubtedly a maxim of
natural justice, embodied in constitutional provisions, that the
quality and consequences of an act shall be determined by the
law in force when it is committed, and of which, therefore,
the accused may be presumed to have knowledge, so that the
definition of the offence, the character and degree of its punishment, and the amount and kind of evidence necessary to
prove it, cannot be changed to the disadvantage of the party
charged, ex post facto. And this equally applies to, because it
includes, the matters which, existing at the time and constituting part of the transaction, affect its character, and thus
form grounds of mitigation or defence; for the accused is entitled to the benefit' of all the circumstances that attended his
conduct, according to their legal significance, as determined at
the time. All these are incidents that belong to the substance
of the thing charged as a crime, and therefore come within
the saving which preserves the legal character of the principal
fact. But matters of possible defence, which accrue under
provisions of positive law, which are arbitrary and technical,
introduced for public convenience or from motives of policy,

Oct. 1882.]

BOWDEN V. JOHNSON.

which do not affect the substance of the accusation or defence,
and form no part of the res gestce, are continually subject to
the legislative will, unless, in the mean time, by an actual
application to the particular case, the legal condition of the
accused has been actually changed. His right to maintain
that status, when it has become once vested, is beyond the
reach of subsequent law.
The present, as we have seen, is not such a case. The substance of the prisoner's defence, upon the merits, has not been
touched; no vested right under the law had wrought a result
upon his legal condition before its repeal. He is, therefore, in
no position to invoke the constitutional prohibition, which is,
by the judgment of this court, now interposed between him and
the crime of which he has been convicted.
In our opinion, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri should be affirmed.

BOWDEN v. JOHNSON.
1. Where the holder of shares of stock in a national bank, who is possessed of
information showing that there is good ground to apprehend the failure of
the bank, colludes with an irresponsible person, with the design of substituting the latter in his place, and thus escaping the individual liability imposed by the provisions of sect. 12 of the act of June 3, 1864, c. 106, and
transfers his shares to such person, the transaction is a fraud on the creditors of the bank, and the liability of the transferrer to them is not thereby
affected.
2. A bill in equity filed by the receiver of the bank against the transferrer and
transferee to enforce such liability will le where it is for discovery as well
as relief, the transfer being good between the parties, and only voidable at
the election of the complainant.
3. A letter of the Comptroller of the Currency, addressed to the receiver, directing him to bring suit to enforce the personal liability of every person owning
stock at the time the bank suspended, is sufficient evidence that the decision
of the Comptroller touching such personal liability preceded the institution
of the suit. The liability bears interest from the date of the letter.
4. The decree below, dismissing the bill, was entered after a new receiver had
been appointed. An appeal to this court was taken in the name of the old
receiver, as the complainant, the new receiver becoming a surety in the
appeal bond. In this court the new receiver was, on his motion, substituted
as the complainant and appellant, without prejudice to the proceedings
already had; and the motion of the appellees to dismiss the appeal was
denied.

