Oct. 1882.]

RUSSELL v.

ALLEN.

frequently announced, that the jury may be controlled in their
determination of a question by a peremptory instruction, if
the testimony is of such a conclusive character as would compel the court, in the exercise of a sound legal discretion, to set
aside a verdict if one were returned in opposition to such testimony. Hendrick v. Lindsay, 93 U. S. 143-; Phzenix Insurance Co. v. Doster, 106 id. 30.
All other questions raised by the assignments of error, and
which are deemed of any moment, are concluded by the decision in the Ramsdell case.
Judgment affirmed.

RUSSELL v. ALLEN."
William Russell, of St. Louis, "for the purpose of founding an institution for
the tducation of youth in St. Louis County, Missouri," granted lands and
personal property in Arkansas to John S. Romer and his successors, in trust
"for the use and benefit of the Russell Institute of St. Louis, Missouri," with
directions to the grantee to sell them, and to account for and pay over the
proceeds "to Thomas Allen, President of the Board of Trustees of the said
Russell Institute at St. Louis, Missouri," whose receipt should be a full discharge to the grantee. Hdd, that this was a charitable gift, valid against the
donor's heirs and next of kin, although the institution was neither established
nor incorporated in the lifetime of the donor or of Allen.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. William Brown for the appellant.
Mr. Chester H. Krum and Mr. William B. -Donaldson for
the appellee.
M . JUSTICE. GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity, filed on the 16th of April, 1878, by
two of the heirs at law and next of kin of William Russell,
of St. Louis, against Thomas Allen, to establish a trust in
favor of Russell's heirs at law and .next of kin, and for an
account.
The bill alleges that on the 19th of July, 1855, William
Russell and John S. Homer executed four indentures of trust,

RUSSELL

v.

ALLEN.

[Sup. Ot.

by each of which Russell, in consideration of one dollar paid,
"and for divers other good and valuable considerations, but
chiefly for the purpose of founding an ingtitution for the education of youth in St. Louis County, Missouri," granted and
conveyed to Homer, his executors and administrators or successors, in trust forever, certain lands and personal property in the
State of Arkansas, to have and to hold the same unto him, his
executors, administrators, and successors, in trust " to and for
the following uses and purposes, to wit, the said property is
conveyed for the use and benefit of the Russell Institute of St.
Louis, Missouri;" and empowered and directed him and them
to sell the same as soon as conveniently might be, and to account for and pay over the proceeds yearly or oftener, deducting the reasonable expenses of executing the trust, "to Thomas
Allen, President of the Board of Trustees of the said Russell
Institute at St. Louis, Missouri, and his receipt therefor shall
be a full discharge of the said party of the second pqrt for
the amount so paid and the application thereof;" and Horner's
trust to be brought to a close and the net proceeds paid over as
soon as conveniently might be, and if not concluded within ten
years, the property remaining undisposed of to be sold by public auction and the proceeds paid over as before required. In
each of the fou indentures reference was made to the three
others, and it was " declared that all of said conveyances, including this, are made to one and the same person for one and
the same use and purpose, and that the same are and are to be
deemed and taken and accounted for as one trust, according to
the conditions of the deeds respectively, it having been intended by said deeds and this present one to convey all of the
remaining property of the said William Russell in the said
State of Arkansas to the said party of the second part, to and
for the use and benefit of the said Russell Institute of St. Louis,
Missouri." After this clause, in one of the indentures, were
added the words, "represented by their president as aforesaid."
Each indenture contained a covenant by Homer "faithfully to
perform the trust hereby.created."
The bill further alleges that Homer, in the execution of his
trust, has converted a large portion of the property into money,
has paid over to Allen the sum of about $50,000, and has con-

Oct. 1882.]

RUSSELL V. ALLEN.

veyed and transferred to Allen the property remaining unsold,
and that Allen holds and controls the whole fund, and has
never applied to any court for aid in the disposition and application thereof, and has in no way used or recognized the fund
as held by him in trust for the uses declared by Russell.
The bill further alleges that there was not at the time of the
execution of the indentures aforesaid, nor before or since, any
such educational institution as was referred to therein ; that at
the time of such execution Russell was from paralysis infirm in
body and weak in mind, and that, while he then manifestly
proposed to found such an institution, yet in his increasing
incapacity of body and mind during the short period that
intervened between that time and his death he failed to accomplish his philanthropic purpose; that he died in 1856,
without ever having founded such an institution, or delegated
to Horner or to Allen, or to any other person or corporation,
authority to organize a Russell Institute, and that no such
authority has hitherto been exercised or claimed by any person
or corporation, and there is and has been no donee capable of
receiving, holding, and administering the trust fund created by
the indentures ; that the beneficiaries of the trust, so far as can
be determined by the terms of the indentures, are uncertain
and indefinite, and the trust is invalid, and, there being no
debts outstanding against Russell's estate, the trust fund belongs
to his next of kin.
To this bill Allen filed a general demurrer, which was sustained and the bill dismissed. 5 Dill. 235. The plaintiffs
appealed to this court. Pending the appeal, Allen has died,
and his executors have been made parties in his stead.
The deeds of gift state that they are made " chiefly for the
purpose of founding an institution for the education of youth
in St. Louis County, Missouri;" they convey the property to
Homer and his successors in trust "for the use and benefit of
the Russell Institute of St. Louis, Missouri ;" they direct him
to sell the property and account for and pay over the proceeds
"to Thomas Allen, President of the Board of Trustees of the
said Russell Institute of St. Louis, Missouri," whose receipt
shall be a full discharge of Homer; nd they end by declaring
that all these conveyances shall be deemed, taken, and accounted

RUSSELL v. ALLEN.

[Sup. Ct.

for as one trust, and that it is the intention of the donor to
convey the property included in all of them "to and for the
benefit of the said Russell Institute of St. Louis, Missouri," to
which one of the deeds adds, "represented by their president as
aforesaid."
The donor thus clearly manifests his purpose to found an
institution for the education of youth in St. Louis, to be called
by his name; and he executes this purpose by conveying the
property to Horner in trust, to hold and convert into money
and pay that money to the officers of the institute when incorporated and a board of trustees appointed. The direction to
pay the money to Allen, as president of the board of trustees,
and the mention, at the close of one of the deeds, of the institute as represented by its president as aforesaid, clearly show
that the fund is not to be paid to Allen individually; and
while they imply the donor's wish that Allen should be the first
president of the board of trustees of the institute, they do not
make his appointment to and acceptance of that office a condition of the validity of the gift or of the carrying out of the
donor's charitable purpose. The terms of the deeds clearly
show that the donor did not contemplate or intend doing any
further act to perfect his gift. It is not pretended that the
allegations in the bill as fr his weakness of body and mind
amount to an allegation of insanity, and they are irrelevant and
immaterial.
The principal grounds upon which the plaintiffs seek to
maintain their bill are that the deeds create a perpetuity;
that the uses declared are not charitable; and that, if the uses
are charitable, there are no ascertained beneficiaries and no
donee capable of assuming and administering the trust, and the
uses are too indefinite to be specifically executed by a court of
chancery. But these positions, as applied to the facts of the
case, are inconsistent with the fundamental principles of the
law of charitable uses, as established by the decisions of
this and other courts exercising the ordinary jurisdiction in
equity.
By the law of England from before the Statute of 43 Eliz.
c. 4, and by the law of this country at the present day (except
in those States in which it has been restricted by statute or

Oct. 1882.]

RUSSELL V. ALLEN.

judicial decision, as in Virginia, Maryland, and more recently
in New York), trusts for public charitable purposes are upheld
under circumstances under which private trusts would fail.
Being for objects of permanent interest and benefit to the public, they may be perpetual in their duration, and are not within
the rule against perpetuities; and the instruments creating
them should be so construed as to give them effect if possible,
and to carry out the general intention of the donor, when
clearly manifested, even if the particular form or manner
pointed out by him cannot be followed.
They may, and
indeed must, be for the benefit of an indefinite number of
persons; for if all the beneficiaries are personally designated,
the trust lacks the essential element of indefiniteness, which is
one characteristic of a legal charity. If the founder describes
the general nature of the charitable trust, he may leave the
details of its administration to be settled by trustees under the
superintendence of a court of chancery; and an omission to
name trustees, or the death or declination of the trustees
named, will not defeat the trust, but the court will appoint
new trustees in their stead.
The previous adjudications of this court upon the subject of
charitable uses go far towards determining the question presented in this case. As the extent and effect of these adjudications have hardly been appreciated, it will be convenient to
state the substance of them.
The case of Baptist Association v. Hart, 4 Wheat. 1, in
which a bequest by a citizen of Virginia "to the" Baptist Association that for ordinary meets at Philadelphia annually," as
"a perpetual fund for the education of youths of the Baptist
denomination who shall appear promising for the ministry,"
was declared void, was decided upon an imperfect survey of the
early English authorities, and upon the theory that the English
law of charitable uses, which, it was admitted, would sustain
the bequest, had its origin in the Statute of Elizabeth, which
had been repealed in Virginia. That theory has since, upon a
more thorough examination of the precedents, been clearly
7
shown to be erroneous.
idal v. Girard, 2 How. 127; Perin
v. Carey, 24 id. 465; Ould v. Washington Hospital, 95 U. S.
803. And the only cases in which this court has followed the

RUSSELL v. ALLEN.

[Sup. Ot.

decision in Baptist Association v. Hart have, like it, arisen in
the State of Virginia, by the decisions of whose highest court
charities, except in certain cases specified by statute, are not
upheld to any greater extent than other trusts. Wheeler v.
Smith, 9 How. 55; Zain v. Gibboney, 101 U. S. 362.
In Beatty v. Kurtz, 2 Pet. 566, the owners of a tract of land
(afterwards part of Georgetown) laid it out as a town, and
made and recorded a plan of it, marking one lot as "for the
Lutheran Church;" and the Lutherans of the town, a voluntary society not incorporated, erected and used a building upon
this lot as a church for public worship, and fenced in and used
the land as a church-yard, for the burial of others as well as of
Lutherans, for fifty years. Upon these facts, it was held that
the Bill of Rights of Maryland, affirming the validity of any
sale, gift, lease, or devise of land, not exceeding two acres, for
a church and burying ground, recognized, to this extent at
least, the doctrine, of charitable uses, under which no specific
grantee. or trustee was necessary; that this land had been dedicated to a charitable and pious use, beneficial to the inhabitants
generally, which might at all times have been enforced through
the intervention of the government as parens patrixe, by its
Attorney-General or other law officer; and that a committee
of the society might maintain a bill in equity to restrain by
injunction the heirs of the original owners from disturbing that
use.
In Inglis v. Sailor's Snug Harbor, 3 Pet. 99, a citizen of New
York devised land to the chancellor of the State, the mayor of
the city, and others, designating them all by their official'
titles only, and to their respective successors, in trust out of
the rents and profits to build a hospital for aged, decrepit, and
worn-out sailors, as soon as the trustees should judge that the
proceeds would support fifty such sailors, and to maintain the
hospital and support sailors therein forever; and further declared it to be his will and intention, that if this could not be
legally done without an act of incorporation, the trustees should
apply to the legislature for such an act, and that the property
should at all events be forever appropriated to the above uses
and purposes. An act incorporating the trustees was passed,
and the hospital was established. A majority of the court held

Oct. 1882.]

RUSSELL v. ALLEN.

that the trustees took personally and not in their official capacities, and that upon their incorporation the legal title vested by
way of executory devise in the corporation as against the heirs
at law; and the dissenting judges differed only as to the legal
title, and not as to the validity of the charitable trust.
In AtcDonogh v. IM'doeh, 15 How. 367, a citizen of Louisiana, declaring his chief object to be the education of the poor
of the cities of New Orleans and Baltimore, made a devise
and bequest to the two cities, one half to each, the income to
be applied by boards of managers, who should be appointed by
either city, but whose powers and duties he defined, and who
should obtain acts of incorporation, if necessary, for the education of the poor and other charitable purposes, in various ways
specified. And in case the two cities should combine together
and knowingly and wilfully violate the conditions, then he gave
the whole property to the States of Louisiana and Maryland,
in equal halves, "for the purpose of educating the poor of said
States under such a general system of education as their respective legislatures shall establish by law." The court held that
the devise to the cities was valid, and that the testator's direclions as to the management of the income "must be regarded
as subsidiary to the general objects of his will, and whether
legal and practicable, or otherwise, can exert no influence over
the question of its validity;" and expressed the opinion that
the failure of the devise to the cities would not have benefited the heirs at law, for in that event the limitation over to
the States of Louisiana and Maryland would have been operative. 15 How. 404, 415.
In Pontain v. Bavenel, 17 id. 369, a testator, residing at
the time of his death in Pennsylvania, appointed his wife and
three others to be executors of his will, and authorized his executors or the survivor of them, after the death of his wife, to
dispose of the residue of his estate "for the use of such charitable institutions in Pennsylvania or South Carolina as they or
he may deem most beneficial to mankind, and so that part of
the colored population in each of the said States of Pennsylvania and South Carolina shall partake of the benefits thereof."
In that case, the testator had not himself defined the nature of
the charitable uses, nor authorized any one but his executors to

170

RUSSELL V. ALLEN.

[Sup. Ct.

designate them; and the point decided wag that, they having
all died without doing so, the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Pennsylvania could not sustain a bill to establish them, filed by charitable institutions in Pennsylvania
and South Carolina in the name of the administrator de bonis
non and next of kin of the testator. The question there was,
whether the authority of a court of chancery, under such circumstances, belonged to its ordinary jurisdiction over trusts, or to
its prerogative power under the sign manual of the crown, which
last has never been introduced into this country. See Boyle
on Charities, 238, 239; Jackson v. Phillips,14 Allen (Mass.),
539, 576, 588. N6 question of the validity of the gift as against
the next of kin was presented; and even Chief Justice Taney,
who, differing from the rest of the court, alone asserted that
"if the object to be benefited is so indefinite and so vaguely
described that the bequest could not be supported in the case
of an ordinary trust, it cannot be established in a court of the
United States upon the ground that it is a charity," distinctly
admitted that a suit by an heir or representative of the testator to recover property or money bequeathed to a charity could
not be maintained in a court of the United States if the bequest was valid by the law of the State. 17 How. 395, 396.
Accordingly, in Lorings v. I3larsh, 6 Wall. 337, the court dismissed a bill by the next of kin to set aside a bequest by a citizen of Massachusetts "in trust for the benefit of the poor,"
by means of such incorporated charitable institutions as should
be designated by three persons appointed by the trustees or
their successors; such a bequest being valid under the law of
Massachusetts as habitually administered in her courts.
In United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315, this court, affirming
the judgment of the Court of Appeals of New York in 52
N. Y. 530, held a devise of land in New York to the United
States, for the purpose of assisting to discharge the debt contracted by the war for the suppression of the Rebellion, to be
invalid, solely because by the law of New York, as declared by
recent decisions of the Court of Appeals, none but a natural
person, or a corporation created by that State with authority to
take by aevise, could be a devisee of land in that State.
Where not prohibited by statute, a devise or bequest for such

Oct. 1882.]

RUSSELL V. ALLEN.

a purpose is a good charitable gift. Nightingalev. Goulburn,
5 Hare, 484, and 2 Phillips, 594; Dickson v. United States,
125 Mass. 311.
In Ould v. Washington Hlospital, 95 U. S. 303, a citizen of
Washington devised land in the District of Columbia to two
persons named, in trust to hold it "as and for a site for the erection of a hospital for foundlings," to be built by a corporation
to be established by act of Congress and approved by the trustees or their successors, and, upon such incorporation, to convey
the land to the corporation in fee. It was contended for the
heirs at law that the devise was void, because it was to a corporation to be established in the future, and might not take
effect within the rule against perpetuities, and because of the
uncertainty of the beneficiaries; and reference was made to
the Maryland Statute of Wills of 1798, still in force in the
District of Columbia, providing that no will should "be effectual to create any interest or perpetuity, or make any limitation, or appoint any uses, not now permitted by the Constitution
or laws of the State," and to a series of decisions in Maryland, holding that the Statute of Elizabeth was not in force in
that State, and that charitable uses were there governed by
the same rules as private trusts. But those decisions having
been made since the separation of the District of Columbia
from the State of Maryland, the court held that the case must
be determined upon general principles of jurisprudence, and
that the devise was valid.
The objection to the validity of the gift before us, as tending
to create a perpetuity, is fully met by the cases of Inglis v.
Sailor's Snug Harbor, 1te Donogh v. iHiurdoch, and Ould v.
Wadshngton Hospital,above cited, which clearly show that a gift
in trust for a charity not existing at the date of the gift, and the
beginning of whose existence is uncertain, or which is to take
effect upon a contingency that may possibly not happen within
a life or lives in being and twenty-one years afterwards, is
valid, provided there is no gift of the property meanwhile to or
for the benefit of any private corporation or person. Those
cases are in accord with English decisions of the highest
authority, of which it is sufficient to refer to the leading case
of Downing College, reported under the name of Attorney-Gen-

RUSSELL V. ALLEN.

[Sup. Ct.

eral v. Downing in Wilmot, 1 Dick. 414, and Ambler, 550,
571, and under the name of Attorney-General v. Bowyer in
3 Ves. 714, 5 id. 300, and 8 id. 256, and to the recent case of
Chamberlayne v. Brockett, Law Rep. 8 Ch. 206. See also
Sanderson v. White, 18 Pick. (Mass.) 328, 336; Odell v. Odell,
10 Allen (Mass.), 1.
That the gift is for a charitable use cannot be doubted. All
gifts for the promotion of education are charitable, in the legal
sense. The Smithsonian Institution owes its existence to a
bequest of James Smithson, an Englishman, "to the United
States of America, to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men." See Acts of Congress of 1st July, 1836, c. 252; 10th August, 1846, c. 178.
This was held by Lord Langdale, Master of the Rolls, in
United States v. Drummond, decided in 1838, to be a good
charitable bequest. The decition on this point is not contained in the regular reports, but appears by the letters of Mr.
Rush, then Minister to England (printed in the Documents
relating to the Origin and History of the Smithsonian Institution, published by the Institution in 1879), to have been made
after full- argument in behalf of the United States by Mr.
Pemberton (afterwards Mr. Pemberton Leigh and Lord Kingsdown), and on deliberate consideration by the Master of the
Rolls. History of Smithsonian Institution, 15, 19, 20, 56, 58,
62. And it was cited as authoritative in Whicker v. tume,
7 H. L. Cas. 124, 141, 155, in which the House of Lords held
that a bequest in trust to be applied, in the discretion of the
trustees, "for the benefit and advancement and propagation of
education and learning in every part of the world, as far as
circumstances will permit," was a valid charitable bequest and
not void for uncertainty.
"Schools of learning, free schools, and scholars in universities," are among the charities enumerated in the Statute of
Elizabeth; and no trusts have been more constantly and uniformly upheld as charitable than those for the establishment o:
support of schools and colleges. Perry on Trusts, sect. 700.
That the gift "for the purpose of founding an institution for
the education of youth in St. Louis County, Missouri," to be

Oct. 188-2.]

RUSSELL

v.

ALLEN.

managed by a board of trustees, is sufficiently definite, is
shown by the decisions of this court in Perin v. (Yarey, and
Ould v. Washington Hlospital, above cited, as well as by that
of the House of Lords in Dundee Magistrates v. Morris,
3 Macq. 134.
The law of Missouri, as declared by the Supreme Court of
that State, sustains the validity of this gift. In Ohambers v.
St. Louis, 29 Mo. 543, a devise and bequest to the city of St.
Louis, in trust " to be and constitute a fund to furnish relief to
all poor emigrants and travellers coming to St. Louis on their
way bona fide to settle in the West," which was objected to
for indefiniteness in the object, as well as for want of capacity
in the trustee to take, was held to be valid. And in Schmidt
v. Hess, 60 id. 591, a grant of a parcel of land to the Lutheran
Church for a burial ground was held to be a valid charitable
gift, which equity would execute by compelling a conveyance
to the trustees of a church proved to be the church intended
by the testator, although it was not incorporated at the time of
the gift. We have been referred to nothing having any tendency to show that the law of Arkansas, in which the lands
granted lie, is different.
The money paid and the lands conveyed by Horner to Allen
stand charged in the hands of Allen and his executors with the
same charitable trust to which they were subject in the hands
of Horner.
Steps to organize such an institution as is described in the
deeds may be taken either by the Attorney-General or other
public officer of the State, or by individuals. Whenever an
institute for the education of youth in St. Louis shall have
been incorporated and shall claim the property, it will then be
a matter for judicial determination in the proper tribunal
whether it meets the requirements of the gift. The only question now presented is of the validity of the gift as against the
donor's heirs at law and next of kin.
Decree affirmed.

