REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF TIM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1882.

UNITED STATES V. ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY.
The court denies an application for rehearing in this case, decided at the present
term, 106 U. S. 327.

PETITION for rehearing.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. William -D. Shipman, contra.
Mr.. CmIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
When this case was argued, no special claim was made for a
judgment based on the currency value of the pounds sterling at
the time the taxes sued for ought to have been paid, and for
that reason a judgment was ordered for the prqsent value of
pounds sterling in lawful money. We are now asked to rehear
the case for the purpose of considering that question.
The company was liable for taxes of five per cent on the
amounts of interest paid. As the payments were all made in
pounds sterling, the computations must necessarily be on that
basis. Sect. 9 of the act of July 13, 1866, c. 184, made it
the duty of the company to return a list of the prescribed
taxes to the assessor. In making up such lists the act required
that it should be declared whether the amounts were stated
VOL. XVII.

1

UNITED STATES V. ERIE RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

according to their values in legal-tender currency or in coined
money. When stated in coined money, it was the duty of the
assessor to reduce them to their equivalent in legal-tender currency, according to the value of coined money in currency for
the time covered by the returns. All lists furnished the collectors by the assessors were required to "contain the several

amounts of taxes assessed, estimated, or valued in legal-tender
currency only."
In Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 240, it was

decided that a suit at law might be maintained for the recovery of a tax on interest paid, even though no list bad been
returned and no assessment made; and in the opinion it was
said: "No other assessment than that made by the statute was
necessary to determine the extent of the bank's liability. An
assessment is only determining the value of the thing taxed,

and the amount of tax required of each individual.

It may be

made by the designated officers or by the law itself.

In the

present case the statute required every savings bank to pay a
tax of five per cent on all undistributed earnings made, or

added during the year to their contingent funds. There was
no occasion or room for any other assessment. This was a
charge of a certain sum upon the bank, and without more it
made the bank a debtor."
In the present case no list was returned by the company and
no assessment made by the assessor. Consequently no list was
ever furnished the collector, and the amount to be paid in cur-

rency was never officially ascertained. This suit is, therefore,
for the debt which the company owes, to wit, five per cent of
the pounds sterling it has paid as interest on its bonds.

If the

debt had bee-P paid at the time it was due, the officers chargeable with the collection could have accepted nothing but legaltender currency, and to an amount equivalent to the value of
the coin which was owing. In other words, the debt was in
the nature of an obligation to pay in coin, but which the government would not receive in anything but legal-tender currency of equal value with the coin. This is a suit for the

recovery of that debt as a debt. If there were now any difference in value between coin and currency, it would have been
proper to render the judgment for the coin or its equivalent in

Oct. 1882.]

EMBRY V. PALME1L

currency. Gregory v. 11forris, 96 U. S. 619. As there is no
such difference, a general judgment for the amount due is all
that is necessary. The amount*of the debt was always a fixed
sum in pounds sterling. The provision for the estimation of
the value of this debt in legal-tender currency was, in our opinion, a regulation of the mode of collection, and not a change in
the amount of the obligation. As promptness was required in
the payment of taxes, and the amount to be paid in currency
would not ordinarily exceed the value of the coin which was
due, it was thought proper by the government to require its
officers to make collections in currency. For that reason it
was provided that in making out the tax-lists the amount necessary to discharge coin taxes in currency should be set down,
rather than the amount of the coin that was owing. In this
way there would be less opportunity for confusion in the accounts between the government and its officers.
As upon this application we have had the benefit of a printed
brief by the Solicitor-General on behalf of the United States,
and upon full consideration are satisfied that the judgment as it
stands is right, notwithstanding the claim that is now made,
the application for a rehearing is
.Denied.

EMrBRY V. PALMER.
1. The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is a court of the United
States, and its judgment, when suit is brought thereon in any State of the
Union, is, under the legislation of Congress, conclusive upon the defendant,
except for such cause as would be sufficient to set it aside in the courts of
the district.
2. A. recovered judgment in that court against B. and C., who, when sued thereon
in a State court, filed their bill to enjoin the collection of so much thereof
as they claimed was in excess of the amount due on the original cause of
action, and alleged, as a ground of relief, matter available as a defence in
the action at law, which they were not prevented from setting up by accident, or by the fraud of A., unconnected with the negligence of themselves
or agents. The court perpetually enjoined A. from suing on the judgment
on their paying into court that amount. They did so, and A. received it.
The decree was affirmed by the court of last resort in the State. .Udd,
1. That, according to the law then in force in the District of Columbia, the

