MYERS V. SWANN.

[Sup. Ct.

of the parties referred to. It is sought to conclude them by a
loose expression in the decree, which, in our opinion, was clearly
not intended to recite their appearance, and is not fairly open
to such a construction.
Lastly, it is assigned for error that, in computing the amount
due upon the coupons described in the declaration, the court
allowed seven per cent interest, the legal rate in New York,
where the coupons were payable, instead of six per cent, the
legal rate in Illinois, where they were made. There was no
error in this. The coupons, after their maturity, bore interest
at the rate fixed by the law of the place where they were payable. Gelpeke v. City of Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175. What we
have said covers all the assignments of error. We find no
error in the record.
Judqment affirmed.

MYERS v. SwANN.
The Circuit Court cannot take jurisdiction of a suit removed from a State
court under the third subdivision of sect. 639 of the Revised Statutes, on
account of "prejudice or local influence," unless all the necessary parties on
one side of the suit are citizens of different States from those on the other.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of North Carolina.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Thomas T. Crittenden and Mr. Franklin H. lackey for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel P. Phillips for the defendant in error.
MR. CmnEF JuSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error brought under the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, to reverse an order of the Circuit Court remanding a cause removed from a State court under the third subdivision of sect. 639 of the Revised Statutes, on account of
,,prejudice or local influence." At the time the application
for removal was made in the State court, the suit was being

Oct. 1882.]

MYERS V. SWANN.

prosecuted by citizens of North Carolina, as plaintiffs, against
George Myers, then in life, a citizen of New York, and certain
other persons, all citizens of North Carolina, to recover the
possession of a lot in Wilmington, occupied by Myers, and to
obtain a conveyance of the legal title held by the other defendants. The suit was originally begun on the 19th of May, 1873,
against Myers alone, to recover the possession and damages for
the detention; but on the 29th of May, 1877, an amended complaint was filed, not changing the action as against him, but
bringing in the other defendants, who, it was alleged, held the
legal title, and asking for a conveyance from them. Myers
alone answered the amended complaint on the 8th of September, 1877, and on the 12th of March, 1878, petitioned for a
removal, filing an affidavit to the effect that he had reason to
believe, and did believe, that from prejudice or local influence
he would not be able to obtain justice in the State court. The
State court of original jurisdiction refused to allow a removal;
but on appeal to the Supreme Court this was overruled, on
the ground that the new defendants were merely nominal
parties as trustees, and thereupon the cause was docketed in
the Circuit Court of the United States on the 18th of November, 1878. In November, 1879, the Circuit Court, "being of
opinion that the action in its present form" could not be maintained in that court, remanded the suit to the State court, and
from that order this writ of error was brought.
As the suit was pending in the State court against Myers
from 1873 to 1878, his application for removal was too late to
secure the benefit of the separable controversy provision in the
act of 1875. Such an application should have been made at
or before the term at which the cause could be first tried, or
rather, as this suit was begun before the act of 1875 was
passed, it should have been at or before the term at which the
cause could be first tried after that act went into operation.
Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457, 473.
Under the local prejudice act there can be no removal unless
all the necessary parties on one side of the suit are citizens
of different States from those on the other. This was decided
in Vannevar v. Brlant, 21 Wall. 41. It is not enough that
there be a separable controversy between parties having the

MYERS v. SwAN.[u

[Sup. Ot.

necessary citizenship, nor that the principal controversy is
between citizens of different States. If there are necessary
parties on one side of the suit, citizens of the same State with
those on the other, the Circuit Court cannot take jurisdiction.
There is no doubt that in this case the principal controversy
is between Myers and the plaintiffs, but the relief that is asked
cannot be granted without the presence of all the defendants.
The possession of the land is in Myers or his heirs, but the
legal title is thought to be in the other defendants. It is true
that the other defendants are mere trustees, who may be compelled to convey if they do have the title; but one of the
objects of the suit is to get such a conveyance. This part of
the relief asked for cannot be had unless the trustee defendants are parties. The record shows that they refused to join
as plaintiffs. This implies that they deny the trust and leave
the plaintiffs to their remedies. In effect they bave put themselves on the record as contending that the conveyance made
by their ancestor passed the title to Myers and discharged the
trust. This also is claimed by Myers. Consequently it appears that, under the ruling in aardner v. Brown, 21 Wall.
36, the plaintiffs required the presence of the trustee defendants in order to get Myers out of possession even. Without
the legal title they could not recover in ejectment against him.
The trustee defendants were unwilling to join with the plaintiffs. Therefore the plaintiffs had to make them defendants in
order to recover at all. It follows that the trustee defendants
were not only not nominal parties, but, if they actually did
hold the legal title, as is assumed, necessary parties.
The order remanding the cause was right, and it is

.Affrmed.

