Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION co. v. PARKERSBURG.

691

sively upon what is known as the outer harbor of Chicago, a
part of the lake surrounded by breakwaters. The fact that formerly a light-house was erected where now Rush Street bridge
stands in no respect affects the question. A ferry was then
used there; and before the construction of the bridge the site
as a light-house was abandoned. The existing light-house is
below all the bridges. The improvements on the river above
the first bridge do not represent any expenditure of the government.
From any view of this case, we see no error in the action of
the court below, and its decree must accordingly be
Affirmed.

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY V. PARKERSBURG.
1. The city of Parkersburg built within its limits a wharf on the bank of the
Ohio River, and prescribed by ordinance certain rates of wharfage on
vessels "that may discharge or receive freight, or land on or anchor at or
in front of any public landing or wharf belonging to the city, for the purpose of discharging or receiving freight." A transportation company,
owning duly enrolled and licensed steamers, which ply between Pittsburgh
and Cincinnati and touch at the intermediate points, complained that the
wharfage was extortionate, and was merely a pretext for levying a duty of
tonnage. The company thereupon filed a bill in the Circuit Court, praying
that the prosecution of a suit brought by the city in the State court to collect the wharfage be enjoined, and that the ordinance be declared void, and
that other relief be granted. Held, thattthe character of the charges must
be determined by the ordinance itself; and as it on its face imposed them
for the use of the wharf only, and not for entering the port or lying at
anchor in the river, the court, though it might deem them unreasonable
and exorbitant, will not entertain an averment that they were intended
as a duty of tonnage, nor inquire into the secret purpose of the body imposing them.
2. Wharfage is the compensation which the owner of a wharf demands for the
use thereof; a duty of tonnage is a charge for the privilege of entering, or
loading at or lying in, a port or harbor, and can be laid only by the United
States.
3. The question as to which of these classes, if either, a charge against a vessel
or its owner belongs, is one, not of intent, but of fact and law: of fact,
whether the charge is imposed for the use of a wharf, or for the privilege
of entering a port; of law, whether, upon the facts which are shown to
exist, it is wharfage or a duty of tonnage.

TRANSPORTATION

CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

4. Although wharves are related to commerce and navigation as aids and con.
veniences, yet being local in their nature, and requiring special regulations
at particular places, the jurisdiction and control thereof, in the absence of
congressional legislation on the subject, properly belong to the States in
which they are situated.
5. A suit for relief against exorbitant wharfage cannot, as one arising under
the Constitution or the laws of the United States, be maintained in the
Circuit Court, even though it be alleged that the wharfage was intended
as a duty of tonnage; the alleged intent not being traversable.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District'of West Virginia.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Hilton L Southard and Mr. Gi. W. Moulton for the
appellant.
Mr. W. A. Cook and Mr. C. C. Cole for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in chancery
on demurrer. The complainant below, who is appellant here,
according to the statements of the bill, is a corporation of West
Virginia, organized for the purpose of carrying on a transportation business on the Ohio River, together with a general
wharf and commission business; its principal office being located
at the city of Parkersburg. It is the owner of several steamboats duly enrolled and licensed under the acts of Congress,
and plying between Pittsburgh, Wheeling, Parkersburg, Cincinnati, and Covington. The bill was filed against the city of
Parkersburg and its recorder and wharfmaster, to restrain the
collection of certain demands for wharfage, and to recover back
money previously paid on that account. It is contended thatthe city ordinance, under which the wharfage was demanded,
is in conflict with the Constitution of the United States; and
this is the ground on which the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United States was invoked. The bill alleges that
many years ago the city of Parkersburg caused to be constructed on the banks of the Ohio River at that place a wharf
or public landing, to be used by the various steamboats trading
on the river and landing at said city; and that said wharf is
still controlled by the city under a certain ordinance passed by
the mayor and common council in March, 1865, a copy of

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION CO. v. PARKERSBURG.

693

which was filed with the bill. By this ordinance it is ordained
that every steamboat, keel-boat, barge, flat-boat, and fiat (except
ferry-boats) that may discharge or receive freight, or land on
or anchor at or in front of any public landing or wharf belonging to the city, or at which the city may lawfully charge and
receive wharfage, for the purpose of discharging or receiving
freight, shall pay the city for wharfage the following sums or
rates for each respectively, to wit: On steamboats of less
than 100 tons burden, three dollars for the first twenty-four
hours or any part thereof, and one dollar and fifty cents for
every subsequent twenty-four hours or any part thereof. On
steamboats of 100 and less than 150 tons, three dollars and
seventy-five cents for the first, and two dollars for every subsequent twenty-four hours or any part thereof; and so on,
regulating the charges according to the tonnage, and reducing
them where only a small quantity of freight is discharged or
received. Provision is then made for recovering the wharfage
by bringing the parties before the recorder or a justice of the
peace.
The bill alleges that under and by virtue of this ordinance
the city of Parkersburg has, ever since the organization of the
complainant, required it and its agents to pay the charges
provided in the ordinance for all the steamboats owned or
controlled by it, which have discharged or received freight or
passengers, or landed at the said wharf, and that the payments
have been made under protest.
The bill then makes the following charge: "Your orator further alleges that, as it is advised and believes,
the said ordinance is wholly null and void, and is in conflict
with those provisions of the Constitution of thr United States
relating to the regulations of inter-state commerce and prohibiting any State, without the consent of Congress, from laying
any duty of tonnage; and that the operation of the same tends
to and does abridge the free use of the Ohio River by your orator, to which it is legally entitled by virtue of the enrolment
and license of its steamboats under the laws of the United
States as aforesaid. As by reference to said ordinance will
appear, the rates of charges made by said city of Parkersburg
upon steamboats landing at or in front of the wharf of said city

TRANSPORTATION Co. v. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

are based upon and regulated solely by the ' tons burden' of said
boats, and said charges are made indiscriminately, whether the
boat lands or anchors at or in front of any public landing or
wharf of said city. And your orator further avers that the
Congress of the United States has never given its consent to
the passage or enforcement of said ordinance, but, on the contrary, tonnage duties are expressly prohibited by sect. 4220 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States to be levied upon
enrolled or licensed vessels trading from one.port in the United
States to another port within the same."
The bill further alleges that the rates charged by the ordinance are unreasonable, extortionate, and oppressive, and are
made and levied as a tax upon commerce for the express purpose (under the assumed pretence of wharfage dues) of replenishing its treasury and increasing its revenue ; that the cost of
the wharf has been collected over and over again; that it is
allowed to remain in bad repair; and that the wharfage dues
collected have been used for other city purposes, paying its
debts, &c.; that in the.year 1876 over $2,700 was collected from
various boats and vessels, less than $50 of which was spent on
the wharf ; and the same thing in other years. These facts are
stated for the purpose of showing the extortionate character of
the ordinance, and that it is used for the purpose of laying
duties and imposts on imports and exports.
The bill further shows that for the recent refusal of the complainant to pay these wharfage charges the city of Parkersburg
has instituted suits against it before the recorder under said
ordinance; wherefore it prays a decree to restrain all further
proceedings against the complainant by said suits or otherwise,
from enforcing any judgment recovered by the city for the
violation of said ordinance, or otherwise interfering with the
rights of the complainant to the free use of the Ohio River
by means of its steamboats; and for the recovery of moneys
already exacted from it under said ordinance, amounting to
over $2,000; and that the ordinance may be declared null and
void.
To this bill the defendants demurred, and upon argument of
the demurrer the bill was dismissed. From that decree the
present appeal is taken.

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION

CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

695

If sect. 720 of the Revised Statutes, which declares that "the
writ of injunction shall not be granted by any court of the
United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State,"
applies to suits originally brought in the Circuit Courts by virtue of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, in cases arising "under
the Constitution or laws of the United States," it is clear that
so much of the bill in this case as prays for an injunction to
restrain legal proceedings already instituted before the recorder
of Parkersburg before it was filed, cannot be maintained. But
that portion of the bill which seeks to have the wharfage ordinance ddclared void, and to restrain any further collections
under it, and any further interference with the right of the
complainant to the free navigation of the Ohio River, is
not open to this objection; and perhaps the demand for a
return of the wharfage already paid (although itself of a legal
nature), may come in as incidental to the other relief. The
main question to be solved is, whether, as contended by the
complainant, the ordinance is void as being in violation of the
Constitution or any law of the United States.
It is conceded by the bill that the wharf for the use of which
the charges are made, though public in the sense of being open
to the use of the public, belongs to the city of Parkersburg;
that it was built and is maintained by the city as its property ;
and the ordinance on its face shows that the charges imposed
for landing at or using it are imposed as and for wharfage, and
nothing else. It may be extortionate in amount; but it is
wharfage.
The allegations of the bill that it is not real
wharfage, but a duty of tonnage, in the name and under the
pretext of wharfage, cannot be received against the terms of
the ordinance itself. This would open the door to an inquiry,
in every case of wharfage alleged to be unreasonable, which
would lead to great inconvenience and confusion. Neither
courts nor juries would have any practicable criterion by which
to judge of the secret intent with which the charge was made,
whether as wharfage or as a duty of tonnage. Such an inquiry,
if allowed, would bring into question not only the intent of
nmnicipal, but of legislative bodies. When the question is one
of reasonable or unreasonable wharfage, we know what to do
with it. It is a question known to the laws; and the modes of

TRANSPORTATION CO. V. PARKExrSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

redress for unreasonable wharfage are fixed and settled. But
whether a charge imposed is a charge of wharfage, or a duty
of tonnage, must be determined by the terms of the ordinance
or regulation which imposes it. They are not the same thing:
a duty of tonnage is a charge for the privilege of entering, or
trading or lying in, a port or harbor; wharfage is a charge for
the use of a wharf. Exorbitant wharfage may have a similar
effect as a burden on commerce as a duty of tonnage has; but
it is exorbitant wharfage, and not a duty of tonnage; and the
remedy for the one is different from the remedy for the other.
The question whether it is the one or the other is not one of
intent, but one of fact and law: of fact, as whether the charge
is made for the use of a wharf, or for entering the port; of law,
as whether, according as the fact is shown to exist, it is wharfage or a duty of tonnage. The intent is not material, and is
not traversable. It is not like the case of a deed absolute on
its face, but intended as a mortgage; there, the intent is the
result of an agreement between the parties, which may be
proved, and which it would operate as a fraud on one of the
parties not to allow to be proved. Nor is it like the case of a
mistake in an instrument, by which the intent of the parties is
contravened : in that case, also, the actual agreement between
them may be shown for the purpose of correcting the instrument. Nor is it like the case of an intent to deceive or defraud
or to commit a crime: there, the intent is a material part of the
offence charged; whilst in the present case a supposed intent
is suggested for the purpose of making of one act, another and
a different act. It is, in truth, more like the case of an averment to contradict the express terms of a written instrument
by parol.
It is contended, indeed, that the terms of the ordinance in
question show that it was intended to exact a duty of tonnage,
and is not confined to the prescription of charges for wharfage;
and the words "anchor at or in front of any public landing or
wharf," as describing vessels to be charged, are relied on as
sustaining this view, since, as contended, they embrace vessels
not using the wharf. But we do not understand this to be the
meaning and effect of the words. The whole phrase should be
taken together, and thus read, it is evidently confined to vessels

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION

CO. v. PARKERSBURG.

using or-intending to use the wharf. The passage consists of
two distinct clauses: 1. "Every steamboat that may discharge
or receive freight at any public landing or wharf;" 2. "or that
may land on or anchor at or in front of any public landing or
wharf for the purpose of discharging or receiving freight."
The last clause as well as the first evidently points to those vessels only which land or anchor at or before a wharf for the
purpose of using it. Sometimes it may happen that the depth
of water in the river, or intervening vessels lying at the wharf,
will not allow a vessel to get close alongside of the wharf, and
yet she may desire to connect with it in some manner, by
planks or by the deck of an intervening boat, barge, or float, so
as to discharge or receive freight and passengers upon or from
the wharf. Such cases are properly described by the language
used; and we have no evidence that any other construction has
been given to it. The complainant does not allege that the
supposed obnoxious application of the ordinance has ever been
made against any of its vessels, or against any vessels. The
charge of the bill is only "that under and by virtue of said
ordinance, the city of Parkersburg has, ever since the time of
organization of your orator, required your orator, its agents and
servants, to pay to it the charges provided in said ordinance for
all steamboats owned or controlled by your orator that have
discharged or received freight or passengers, or landed at its
said wharf." There is no complaint that wharfage has been
exacted when the complainant's vessels have merely anchored
in the stream, or have moored at any other place than the city's
wharf ; or when they have stopped at or in front of the wharf
itself for any other purpose than that of discharging or receiving freight and passengers. This makes the case a very different one from that which was presented in Cannon v. N3ew
Orleans, 20 Wall. 577. There the ordinance objected to imposed levee duties "on all steamboats which shall moor or land
in any part of the port of New Orleans;" and this court could
do no otherwise than hold that such an ordinance h6d the effect
of laying a duty of tonnage, against the express prohibition of
the Constitution. The same view had previously been taken of
an act of the legislature of Louisiana, authorizing the port wardens of New Orleans to demand and receive five dollars from

TRANSPORTATION 00. V. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

every vessel arriving in that port, whether called on to perform
any service or not, Steamship Company v. Port Wardens,
6 Wall. 31; and of a law of Texas, which required every vessel arriving at the quarantine station of any town on the coast
of Texas to pay five dollars for the first hundred tons, and one
and a half cents for each additional ton. Peete v. Morgan,
19 id. 581. So, when a law of New York required all vessels of a certain class which should enter the port of New
York, or load or unload, or make fast to any wharf therein, to
pay a certain rate per ton, this was held to be an unconstitutional imposition, because it applied to all vessels, whether
they used a wharf or not. Inman Steamship Co. v. Tinker,
94 U. S. 238. All these were clear cases of duty on tonnage
as distinguished from wharfage; and the terms of the ordinances and laws in question were very different from those of
We think it very
the ordinance now under consideration.
clear that the ordinance in question cannot be regarded as imposing any other charge than that of whaxfage. The fact that
the rates charged are graduated by the size or tonnage of the
vessel is of no consequence in this connection. This does not
make it a duty of tonnage in the sense of the Constitution and
the acts of Congress. So we have expressly decided in several
recent cases. Cannon v. New Orleans, 20 Wall. 577; Packet
Company v. Kfeokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Packet Company v. St.
Louis, 100 id. 423; Guy v. Baltimore, id. 434; Packet Company v. Catlettsburg,105 id. 559. When the Constitution declares that "No State shall, without the consent of Congress,
lay any duty of tonnage;" and when Congress, in sect. 4220 of
the Revised Statutes, declares that "No vessel belonging to any
citizen of the United States, trading from one port within the
United States to another port within the United States, or
employed in the bank, whale, or other fisheries, shall be subject
to tonnage tax or duty, if such vessel be licensed, registered, or
enrolled,"- they mean by the phrases, "1duty of tonnage," and
"tonnage tax or duty," a charge, tax, or duty on a vessel for the
privilege of entering a port; and although usually levied according to tonnage, and so acquiring its name, it is not confined to
that method of rating the charge. It has nothing to do with
wharfage, which is a charge against a vessel for using or lying

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

at a wharf or landing. The one is imposed by the government,
the other by the owner of the wharf or landing. The one is a
commercial regulation, dictated by the general policy of the
country upon considerations having reference to its commerce
or revenue; the other is a rent charged by the owner of the
property for its temporary use. It is obvious that the mode of
rating the charge in either case, whether according to the size
or capacity of the vessel, or otherwise, has nothing to do with
its essential nature. It is also obvious that since a wharf is
property, and wharfage is a charge or rent for its temporary
use, the question whether the owner derives more or less revenue from it, or whether more or less than the cost of building
and maintaining it, or what disposition he makes of such revenue, can in no way concern those who make use of the wharf
and are required to pay the regular charges therefor; provided,
always, that the charges are reasonable and not exorbitant.
It is undoubtedly a general rule of law, in reference to all
public wharves, that wharfage must be reasonable. A private
wharf, that is, a wharf which the owner has constructed and
reserves for his private use, is not subject to this rule; for, if
any other person wishes to make use of it for a temporary purpose, the parties are at liberty to make their own bargain.
That such wharves may be had and owned, even on a navigable
river, is not open to controversy. It was so decided by this
court in Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 23, and in Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497. Whether a private wharf may be
maintained as such, where it is the only facility of the kind in
a particular port or harbor, may be questioned. Sir Matthew
Hale says: " If the King or subject have a public wharf unto
which all persons that come to that port must come and unlade
or lade their goods as for the purpose because they are the
wharves only licensed by the King, according to the statutes of
1 Eliz., cap. 11, or because there is no other wharf in that port,
as it may fall out where a port is newly erected; in that case
there cannot be taken arbitrary and excessive duties for cranage, wharfage, pesage, &c.; neither can they be inhanced to an
immoderate rate, but the'duties must be reasonable and moderate, though settled by the King's license or charter." Hargrave's L. T. 77.

TRANSPORTATION

CO.

v. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

Be this, however, as it may, it is an undoubted rule of
universal application that wharfage for the use of all public
wharves must be reasonable. But then the question arises, by
what law is this rule established, and by what law can it be
enforced? By what law is it to be decided whether the charges
imposed are, or are not, extortionate? There can be but one
answer to these questions. Clearly it must be by the local
municipal law, at least until some superior or paramount law
has been prescribed. At Parkersburg it is the law of West
Virginia. The rule referred to is a rule of the common law
undoubtedly, but it has force in West Virginia because the
common law is the law of that State, and not because it is the
law of the United States. The courts of the United States do
not enforce the common law in municipal matters in the States
because it is Federal law, but because it is the law of the State.
We have said that the reasonableness of wharfage must be
determined by the local law until some paramount law has
been prescribed. By this we mean, that until the local law is
displaced or overruled by paramount legislation adopted by
Congress, the courts have no other guide, no other law to administer on the subject than the local or State law. Our system
of government is of a dual character, State and Federal. The
States retain general sovereignty and jurisdiction over all local
matters within their limits; but the United States, through
Congress, is invested with supreme and paramount authority in
the regulation of commerce with foreign nations and among the
several States. This has been held to embrace the regulation
of the navigable waters of the United States, of which the
Ohio River is one. In the exercise of this authority over navigable waters Congress has, from the commencement of the
government, erected light-houses, break-waters, and piers, not
only on the sea-coast, but in the navigable rivers of the country;
and has improved the navigation of rivers by dredging and
cleaning them, and making new channels and jetties, and
adopting every other means of making them more capable of
meeting the growing and extending demands of commerce. It
has extended its supervision in an especial manner to the Ohio
River. Amongst other things, it has overcome the obstacle
presented by the falls at Louisville by the cbnstruction of an

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

701

expensive canal. It has created ports of delivery along the
river, of which the city of Parkersburg itself is one, and others
are at Pittsburgh, Wheeling, Cincinnati, Louisville, Madison,
Jeffersonville, New Albany, Evansville, Paducah, and Cairo.
It has regulated the bridges which have been thrown across the
river by authority of the States. It authorized the Wheeling
bridge to stand, after this court had declared it to be a nuisance;
requiring the officers of all vessels to regulate their pipes and
chimneys so as not to interferp with the bridge, 10 Stat. 112;
thus extending its common protection to commerce by land and
commerce by water. It required the Newport and Cincinnati
bridge to be removed or placed at a greater height above the
water, after having been constructed in accordance with the
laws of the States and of the United States. 16 id. 572.
Now wharves, levees, and landing-places are essential to
commerce by water, no less than a navigable channel and a
clear river. But they are attached to the land; they are private property, real estate; and they are primarily, at least,
subject to the local State laws. Congress has never yet interposed to supervise their administration ; it has hitherto left
this exclusively to the States. There is little doubt, however,
that Congress, if it saw fit, in case of prevailing abuses in the
management of wharf property, - abuses materially interfering
with the prosecution of commerce, - might interpose and make
regulations to prevent such abuses. When it shall have done
so, it will be time enough for the courts to carry its regulations
into effect by judicial proceedings properly instituted. But
until Congress has acted, the courts of the United States cannot assume control over the subject as a matter of Federal cognizance. It is Congress, and not the Judicial Department, to
which the Constitution has given the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States. The
courts can never take the initiative on this subject.
There are cases, it is true, which are so national in their
character, and in which it is so essential that a general or
national rule should exist, that any interference by the State
legislatures therewith is justly deemed to be an invasion of
the power and authority of the general government; and in
such cases the courts will interpose to prevent or redress the

702

TRANSPORTATION

CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

commission of acts done or attempted to be done under the
authority of such unconstitutional laws. In such cases, the
non-action or silence of Congress will be deemed to be an
indication of its will that no exaction or restraint shall be imposed. Such is the import of the various passenger cases in
which this court has pronounced unconstitutional any tax,
duty, or other exaction imposed by the States upon emigrants
landing in the country. Such is also the import of those
cases in which it has been held that State laws imposing discriminating burdens upon the persons or products of other
States are unconstitutional; it b6ing deemed the intent of Congress that inter-state commerce shall be free, where it has not
itself imposed any restrictions thereon. See Passenger Cases,
7 How. 283,462; Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 id. 299, 319;
Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Crandall v. State of
Nevada, 6 id. 42; Ward v. AIaryland, 12 id. 418, 432; Case of
the State Freight Tax, 15 id. 232, 279 ; Welton v. State of Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; Henderson v. -layor of New Fork, 92 id.
259, 272; People v. Compagnie Gdnerale Transatlantique,ante,
p. 59.
But the case before us is not one of the kind referred to.
Though the use of public wharves may be regulated by Congress as a part of the commercial power, it certainly does not
belong to that class of subjects which are in their nature
national, requiring a single uniform rule, but to that class
which are in their nature local, requiring a diversity of rules
and regulations. To quote the words of Mr. Justice Curtis in
Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319, "The power to
regulate commerce embraces a vast field, containing not only
many, but exceedingly various subjects, quite unlike in their
nature; some imperatively demanding a single uniform rule,
operating equally on the commerce of the United States in
every port; and some, like the subject now in question [which
was pilotage], as imperatively demanding that diversity which
alone can meet the local necessities of navigation. . . . Whatever subjects of this power are in their nature national, or
admit only of one uniform system, or plan of regulation, may
justly be said to be of such a nature as to require exclusive
legislation by Congress. That this cannot be affirmed of laws

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION

00. V. PARKERSBURG.

703

for the regulation of pilots and pilotage is plain. The act of
1789 contains a clear and authoritative declaration by the first
Congress, that the nature of this subject is such, that until
Congress should find it necessary to exert its power, it should
be left to the legislation of the States; that it is local and
not national; that it is likely to be best provided for, not
by one system, or plan of regulations, but by as many as the
legislative discretion of the several States should deem applicable to the local peculiarities of the ports within their
limits."
No words could be more fitly applied to the subject of the
regulation of wharves than are here used by the court in reference to pilotage. It is true no act of Congress has relegated
the subject of wharfage to the States, as was done in the case
of pilotage; but this was not necessary: the regulation of
wharves belongs prima facie, and in the first instance, to the
States, and would only be assumed by Congress when its exercise by the States is incompatible with the interests of commerce; and Congress has never yet assumed to take that
regulation into its own hands, or to interfere with the regulation of the States.
The power of the States to legislate in matters of a local
character, where Congress has not by its own action covered
the subject, is quite fully discussed by Mr. Justice Field in
delivering the opinion of this court in County of Jf1obile v.
.Kirnall, 102 U. S. 691, where the distinction taken in Cooley
v. Board of Warden s, between those subjects which are national in their character and require uniformity of regulation,
and those which are local and peculiar to particular places,
is commented upon and enforced. Amongst other things, it
is there said: "Where from the nature of the subject or the
sphere of its operation the case is local and limited, special
regulations adapted to the immediate locality could only have
been contemplated. State action upon such subjects can constitute no interference with the commercial power of Congress,
for when that acts the State authority is superseded. Inaction
of Congress upon these subjects of a local nature or operation,
unlike its inaction upon matters affecting all the -States and
requiring uniformity of regulation, is not to be taken as a dec-

TRANSPORTATION

CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

laration that nothing shall be done with respect to them, but is
rather to be deemed a declaration that for the time being, and
until it sees fit to act, they may be regulated by State authority." See also the remarks of the Chief Justice in Hall v.
De Cuir, 95 U. S.485.
It is not necessary to cite other cases. The principle laid
down in Cooley v. Board of Wardens has become fully recognized and established in our jurisprudence; and it is manifest
that no subject can be more properly classified as local in its
nature, and as requiring the application of local regulations,
than that of wharves and wharfage.
From this view, it is plain that the courts of the United
States have no authority to ignore the State laws and regulations on the subject of wharves and wharfage, and to declare
them invalid by reason of any supposed repugnancy to the
Constitution or laws of the United States. As already remarked, the courts cannot take the initiative in this matter.
Congress must first legislate before the courts can proceed
upon any such ground of paramount jurisdiction. If the rates
of wharfage exacted are deemed extortionate or unreasonable,
the courts of the United States (in cases within their ordinary
jurisdiction) as well as the courts of the States must apply
and administer the State laws relating to the subject; and
these laws will probably, in most cases, be found to be sufficient
for the suppression of any glaring evils. At all events, there
is not, at present, any Federal law on the subject by which
relief can be obtained.
In the various bridge cases that have come before the courts
of the United States, where bridges (or dams) have been
erected by State authority across navigable streams, the refusal
to interfere with their erection has always been based upon the
absence of prohibitory legislation by Congress, and the power
of the States over the subject in the absence of such legislation. Where the regulation of such streams by Congress has
been only of a general character, such as the establishment of
ports and collection districts thereon, it has been held that the
erection of bridges, furnished with convenient draws, so as not
materially -to interfere with navigation, is within the power of
the States, and not repugnant to such general regulation. The

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

705

former cases on this subject are reviewed in -EscanabaComnpany v. Chieago, ante, p. 678.
It is believed that no case can be found in which State laws,
or regulations under State authority, on subjects of a local
nature, have been set aside on the ground of repugnance to the
power of regulating commerce given to Congress, unless it has
appeared that they were contrary to some express provision of
the Constitution, or to some act of Congress, or that they
amounted to an assumption of power exclusively conferred
upon Congress.
In G'ibbons v. Ogden it was held, that, as the navigation of
all public waters of the United States is subject to the regulation of Congress, a license granted under the laws and by the
authority of the United States to a steamboat to carry on the
coasting trade entitled such boat to navigate all such waters,
notwithstanding the existence of a State law granting to certain individuals the exclusive right to navigate a portion of
said waters lying within the State; and that such exclusive
grant was void as being repugnant to the regulation made by
Congress. Chief Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion of
the cou'tt in that case, said: "The court will 'enter upon the
inquiry, whether the laws of New York, as expounded by the
highest tribunal of that State, have, in their application to this
case, come into collision with an act of Congress, and deprived
a citizen of a right to which the act entitles him."
Subsequent cases which we have already cited in this opinion
are to the same effect. Crandall v. State of Nevada, 6 Wall.
35; Ward v. llaryland, 12 id. 418; Tfelton v. State of Hissouri, 91 U. S. .275; Henderson v. Mayor of New York, 92
id. 259; People v. Compagnie rdnerale Transatlantique, ante,
p. 59.
State of Pennsylvania v. Wheeling, _&e. Bridge Co., 13 How.
518, was a peculiar case. The Wheeling bridge, as originally
constructed, presented a complete obstacle to the passage of
steamboats with high chimneys, such as navigated the Ohio
River to and from Pittsburgh; and hence presented a case of
interference with navigation analogous to that of the exclusive
monopoly granted to Fulton and Livingston by the State of
New York, which was the ground of complaint in the case of
VOL. xVIx.

45

TRANSPORTATION

CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

ribbons v. Ogden. But, besides this, it was a case in which
this court exercised its original jurisdiction by reason of the
character of the parties, a State being the complainant; and
having jurisdiction on this ground, it was competent for the
court to decide upon the lawfulness or unlawfulness of the
structure in reference, not only to the laws of the United
States, but also to the local municipal law, and to the general
law relating to the mutual rights of the States. The charter
granted to the Wheeling Bridge Company by the State of Virginia had expressly provided, "that if the said bridge shall be
so constructed as to injure the navigation of said river, the
said bridge shall be treated as a public nuisance, and shall be
liable to abatement upon the same principles and in the same
manner that other public nuisances are." In addition to this,
an act was passed Dec. 18, 1789, by the State of Virginia, consenting to the erection of the State of Kentucky out of its
territory on certain conditions, among which was one "1that
the use and navigation of the river Ohio, so far as the territory
of the proposed State, or the territory that shall remain within
the limits of this Commonwealth, lies thereon, shall be free and
common to the citizens of the United States;" and to this the
assent of Congress was given by the act of Feb. 4, 1791, c. 4.
4i This compact," the court said, "1by the sanction of Congress,
has become a law of the Union." Upon all these grounds, it
was held that the State of Pennsylvania, having large interests
which were affected by the erection of the bridge, was entitled
to a decree for its prostration as a nuisance, unless such alterations should be made in its construction as to leave the navigation of flhe river unimpaired.
This case, therefore, cannot be relied on, any more than the
other cases referred to, to show that the courts of the United
States have any peculiar jurisdiction as such to vindicate the
supposed rights of commerce and navigation against the laws
of the States, in matters of a local nature, such as the regulation of wharfage is, where no express provision of the Constitution is violated, and no act of Congress has been passed to
'regulate the subject. As no act of Congress has been passed
for the regulation of wharfage, and as there is nothing in the
Constitution to prevent the States from regulating it, so long

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION

C0. V. PARKERSBURG.

707

as Congress sees fit to abstain from action on the subject, our
conclusion is, that it is entirely within the domain, and subject
to the operation, of the State laws.
The effect of this conclusion upon the present case is obvious.
The gravamen of the bill is really nothing but a complaint
against exorbitant rates of wharfage. These rates are established by a municipal body, itself the proprietor of the wharves,
and professing to act under the authority of State law. It
cannot be supposed that the law authorizes exorbitant charges
to be made; but whether the charges exacted are exorbitant or
not can only be determined by that law. It is clear, therefore,
that the complainant in filing its bill in the United States
court on the ground that the wharfage complained of is in
violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States, has
totally misconceived its rights, and the proper means of obtaining redress. Unless it has some other ground for coming into
the Federal court, it must seek redress in the State courts;
and whether the question of reasonableness of wharfage is submitted to the determination of the one forum or the other, it
is only determinable by the laws of the State within whose
jurisdiction the wharf is situated. Since the parties are all
citizens of West Virginia, and since the case cannot be sustained as one "arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States," there was no error in the decree dismissing the
bill of complaint. The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,

Affirmed.
dissenting.
The city of Parkersburg - which has been created a port of
delivery in conformity with the laws of the United States exacts and collects for the use of its wharf by boats engaged in
commerce on the Ohio River certain fees or dues, called wharfage charges, which, pursuant to the ordinance of May 17, 1865,
are, in every case, measured by the tonnage or capacity of the
boat so using the wharf.
It is conceded by the demurrer to the bill that from these
fees the city has long since been reimbursed for the actual cost
of constructing the wharf; that the amount annually collected
MR.JUSTICE HARLA

708

TRANSPOiTATION

O. v. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Gt.

from boats for its use is largely in excess of any expense incurred
in its maintenance and repair; that it has been permitted to
become and remain in bad repair, at times almost unfit for use;
that nearly all the money so raised is applied by the city to
increase its general revenue and pay its indebtedness; and,
lastly, that .the wharfage charges are unreasonable in amount
and oppressive.
': The opinion of the court, if I do not wholly
misapprehend
'it, proceeds upon the broad ground that municipal wharfage
charges, even where measured by the tonnage of the boat, and
however much in excess of fair and reasonable compensation,
are not duties of tonnage within the meaning of the Constitution, and that their exaction infringes no right given or secured
by the Constitution or the existing statutes of the United
States. If, however, such charges are duties of tonnage, or if
their collection violites any right, so given or secured, then
a case unquestionably arises under the Constitution or laws of
the United States, of which the Circuit Court, under the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, can take original jurisdiction, without
reference to the citizenship of the parties.
I had supposed, and am still of opinion, that a vessel or boat,
duly enrolled and licensed under the laws of the United States
(as those of the appellant are conceded to be), and engaged in
commerce upon the Ohio, a public navigable water, is entitled,
in virtue of the Constitution and laws of the United States, to
enter any port on that river, and also to land at any wharf
established for public use, without being subjected (apart from
mere police regulations) to any burden, tax, or duty therefor,
beyond reasonable compensation to the owner of the wharf for
its use.
Such I have understood to be the doctrine announced in Cannon v. N'Tew Orleans, 20 Wall. 577 ; Packet Company v. Keokuk,
95 U. S. 80 ; Packet Company v. St. Louis, 100 id. 423 ; TViksburgq v. Tobin, id. 430.
The court holds that Congress, under the power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
may, by statute, provide for the protection, through the courts,
of those engaged in commerce upon the public navigable
-waters of the United States against unreasonable charges for

Oct. 1882.]

TRANSPORTATION Co. v. PARKERSBURG.

the use of wharves by boats. But without further legislation,
specifically directed to that end, the courts, I submit, should
adjudge that local regulations, such as those adopted by the
city of Parkersburg, are within the prohibition upon the States
to lay any duty of tonnage, and are also inconsistent with, the
compact between Virginia and Kentucky which this court, in
State of Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling, &e., Bridge Co., 13 How. 518,
564, declared had become, by the sanction of Congress, a
law of the Union. In that compact it is declared that "the
use and navigation of the river Ohio, so far as the territory of
the proposed State, or the territory that shall remain within
the limits of this Commonwealth [Virginia], lies thereon, shall
be free and common to the citizens of the United States."
In the opinion of the court a duty of tonnage is defined to be
a charge, tax, or duty on a vessel for the mere privilege of
entering or lying in a port. The city of Parkersburg cannot,
therefore, constitutionally impose a charge, tax, or duty upon,
or for the exercise of, that privilege. Now, do the Constitution
and the existing laws of the United States extend their protection no further than to secure the bare, naked right of entering
a port free from local burdens or duties upon its exercise ?
May not the boat, in virtue of the Constitution and existing
laws, also land at any wharf, at least at any public wharf, on
the Ohio River for the purpose of discharging and receiving
freight and passengers? Of what value would be the right to
enter the port without the privilege of landing its passengers
and freight? Is not the substantial privilege of landing passengers and freight necessarily involved in the right of entering
the port? If so, it would seem that the right to land a boat at
a public wharf on a navigable water of the United States is as
fully protected by the Constitution and the existing laws of the
United States as that of entering the port. A charge, tax, or
duty imposed upon the exercise of the right to land is consequently, for every practical purpose, as much a duty of tonnage
as a charge, tax, or duty upon the privilege of entering the
port. The constitutional provision that "no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage; " the
power given Congress to regulate commerce among the States;
the statutes of the United States, in the exercise of that

TRANSPORTATION

CO. V. PARKERSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

power, providing for licensing vessels, establishing ports of
entry, and imposing duties and inflicting penalties upon officers
of boats engaged in navigation; and the sanction by Congress
of the compact between Virginia and Kentucky, declaring that
*the use and navigation of the Ohio River shall be free to all
citizens of the United States, - give to the boats of the appellant the right to enter the port of Parkersburg and land at the
wharf provided for the use of boats engaged in navigation.
It is a right given and secured by the Constitution and the
existing laws of the United States, and, therefore, one which
the courts of the Union may protect against invasion or violation.
For its protection additional legislation does not seem to be
necessary, since the Circuit Court has original jurisdiction
of all suits arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States when the matter in dispute exceeds a prescribed amount.
These principles are entirely consistent with the city's ownership of the wharf and with the right to demand fair compensation for its use. As decided in the before-mentioned cases,
the city may require all who use its wharf by landing thereat,
or in any other way, to pay what such use is reasonably worth.
It cannot, as the court states, rightfully demand more. Reasonable compensation for the use by boats of the additional facilities furnished to commerce by means of wharves, even when
such compensation is measured by the capacity of the boats, is
not, within the meaning of the Constitution and the laws of the
United States, an infringement of the right of free commerce
upon the public navigable waters of the United States. Upon
this ground the wharfage charges imposed by the cities of St.
Louis, Vicksburg, and Keokuk were sustained. But it is an
entirely different matter when a municipal corporation assumes
in effect, if not in terms, to burden the constitutional privilege
of entering the port of any city, situated on a public navigable
stream, with the condition that if the boats land at the public
wharf of that city, it must submit tp the payment of larger
compensation for the use of that wharf than the corporation has
the legal authority to demand. It requires no further legislation by Congress to enable the courts of the Union to protect

Oct. 1882.]

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.

the rights of free commerce against exactions of that kind. It
is, I think, their duty to adjudge all such local regulations to
be in conflict with the supreme law of the land. To burden
the exercise of a constitutional right with conditions which
materially impair its value, or which, practically, compel the
abandonment of the light rather than to submit to the conditions, is, in law, an infringement of that right. The opinion
of the court, I repeat, rests necessarily upon the ground that
the enforced exaction and collection by a municipal corporation
of unreasonable compensation for the use of its wharf by a boat,
duly enrolled and licensed under the laws of the United States,
and engaged in commerce upon the Ohio River, do not infringe or impair any right given or secured either by the Constitution or the existing laws of the United States. To that
proposition I am unable to give my assent.
For the reasons stated, I dissent from the opinion and judgment.

LOUISIANA V. JUMEL.
ELLIOTT V. WILTZ.
1. By force of the act of the legislature of Louisiana, known as Act No. 3 of
1874, and the constitutional amendment adopted in that year, which provided that bonds should be issued under that act in exchange for valid
outstanding bonds and warrants at the rate of sixty cents in the new
bonds for one dollar of the old bonds and warrants, the State entered into
a formal contract, the obligation of which it was forbidden by the Constitution of the United States to impair, and thereby stipulated with each
holder of the new bonds so issued that an annual tax of five and one-half
mills on the dollar of the assessed value of all the real and personal property in the State should be levied and collected, and the income therefrom applied solely to the payment of the bonds and coupons; that the tax
levied by the act and confirmed by the Constitution should be a continuing annual tax until the bonds, principal and interest, were paid in full;
that the appropriation of the revenue derived therefrom should be a continuing annual appropriation; and that no further authority than that
contained in the act should be required to enable the taxing officers to
levy and collect the tax, or the disbursing officers to pay out the money
as collected in discharge of the coupons and bonds.
2. After the said act of 1874 was passed, and the constitutional amendment sanctioning it was adopted, sundry parties, citizens of another State, exchanged

