586

AMBLER V. CHOTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

AMBLER v. CHOTEAU.
Where the object of a suit in chancery is the recovery of the damages which
the complainant alleges that he has sustained by reason of an unlawful
and fraudulent conspiracy to cheat him out of his interest in an original
invention, which is the subject-matter of the controversy, the bill should be
dismissed, as his remedy is at law.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Oliver D. Barrett and Hr. Augustine I Ambler for the
appellant.
31. Philip Phillips and 11r. W. Hallett Phillips for the
appellees.
MR. CHMF JUSTICE, WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit in equity, and the case made by the bill may
be stated as follows: Ambler, the appellant, and one R. M. Whipple, invented an
improved mode of manufacturing gas from petroleum, for which
they were about to apply for patents, and being desirous of
securing each to the other one undivided half of what they
were doing, entered, on the 24th of May, 1869, into an agreement of copartnership to effect that object. The third article
of the agreement was as follows: "A1RTICLE THmD.- R. M. Whipple shall have the exclusive and
entire 'business management' of the same, so as to include the
introduction of said invention to public use, and to secure, as far as
possible, the adoption of the same, both in this country and in all
other countries; and for which purpose, and all and singular the
purposes incident thereto, the said R. M. Whipple shall have full
and ample power and authority, and is hereby granted by said
Ambler full power and authority to act for him in the premises, to
sign his name, and make his seal to any instrument, and all instruments of writing needful and necessary to carry out the object and
intention of this agreement, as fully and entirely as the same may
be done by the said Ambler if personally present at the doing

Oct. 1882.]

AMBLER V. CHOTEAU.

thereof; and the said A. I. Ambler hereby ratifies and confirms all
and singular whatsoever may be legally and lawfully done in and
about the premises."
All patents secured for the invention were to be put into
the business and owned by the parties in equal shares. The
proceeds of sales and all other profits were to be equally
divided.
For the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of
the partnership agreement, Ambler, on the 25th of May, executed to Whipple an assignment of all his interest in the invention and in the patents that might be issued thereon. The
agreement and assignment were both recorded in the Patent
Office. On the 13th of July, 1869, a patent was issued to
Whipple & Ambler for "Whipple & Ambler's Steam Petroleum Gas-Generating Apparatus," which was embraced in their
inventions. In September, 1869, Whipple fraudulently determined to exclude Ambler from the benefits of their undertaking, and to accomplish that purpose formed another
partnership with one Thomas S. Dickerson, to whom, in October, 1869, a patent was issued for an improved mode of
manufacturing gas from petroleum, which was the invention
of Whipple & Ambler. Afterwards another patent was issued
to Whipple & Dickerson, which came within the scope of the
Whipple & Ambler experiments. In this condition of affairs,
Ambler, on the 4th of January, 1870, began a suit in equity in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against Whipple
.& Dickerson, the object of which was to bring the Dickerson
and the Wliipple & Dickerson patents into the Whipple &
Ambler partnership, and to get an account of sales and profits.
That court dismissed the bill; but that decree was, on appeal,
reversed here, at the October Term, 1874, and the cause remanded with instructions to enter another decree, "declaring
Whipple & Dickerson to hold in trust for the benefit of
Ambler to the extent of one-half of the two patents issued to
them," and "that an accounting be had as to the profits realized by them, or either of them, from the' use or sale, or otherwise, arising from said patents." Ambler v. Whipple, 20 Wall.
546, 559. A decree was entered in the court of the District
on the 2d of February, 1875, in accordance with this mandate,

AmBLER V. CHOTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

and afterwards upon an accounting a balance was found due
from Whipple of $666,052.35. Whipple is insolvent, and the
amount due from him is uncollectible.
On or about the 21st of April, 1870, Whipple & Dickerson
sold and conveyed to James G. Blunt and Merritt H. Insley,
of the State of Kansas, the right to use the Dickerson patent
in Missouri for $35,000, and on the 28d of December, 1871,
the right to use the Whipple & Dickerson patent in the same
State for the same sum. On the 18th of December, 1871,
Charles P. Choteau, Gerard B. Allen, Charles H. Peek, Stilson
Hutchins, Theodore Laveille, George H. Rea, Albert 0. Ellithorpe, John Kupferle, James G. Blunt, M. H. Insley, Charles
P. Warner, Frank Gregory, and Oliver B. Filley organized, a
corporation under the general corporation law of Missouri by
the name of the Missouri Liquid Fuel Illuminating Company,
'vith an authorized capital of $500,000, divided into five thousand shares of one hundred dollars each. The persons thus
organizing the corporation were, by the articles of association,
constituted directors for the first year. On the 23d of December, 1871, Blunt & Insley, in consideration of $83,000 in cash,
or its equivalent, and $417,000 in capital stock, assigned to
this company all their right to the Dickerson and Whipple
& Dickerson patents for the State of Missouri. At the same
time Whipple & Dickerson agreed with the company to make
such conveyance as might be deemed necessary to perfect the
title of the company under the assignment from Blunt & Insley. When these several transactions took place all the parties
had full notice of all the rights and claims of Ambler in the
premises.
This suit is brought against Chotean, Harrison, Allen, Peck,
Rea, Laveille, Warner, Gregory, and Filley. All the other
corporators and directors, and so far as appears the stockholders
of the Missouri corporation, are named as defendants in the
bill, but they were never served with process, and have never
appeared. Neither Whipple, Dickerson, nor the Missouri corporation is even named as a defendant. The persons who are
served and who appear in the cause hold, or are interested in,
the stock of the corporation to the amount of $150,000 or
thereabouts. The bill abounds in charges of fraud and con-

Oct. 1882.]

O 2AMBLER
V. OHOTEAU.

spiracy, in a general way, against all the persons who are
named, whether parties to the suit or not; but, so far as the
defendants served with process are concerned, the only specific
allegation to be found is that, being "incorporators of the
Missouri Liquid Fuel and Illuminating Company," they "made
said purchase and paid said large sum of money with full
knowledge of the trust and of the fraud and breach of trust
aforesaid [that of Whipple & Dickerson], and with lawful and
timely notice of your orator's legal rights and equitable title
therein, without any effort whatever on the part of said directors of said company to protect your orator's share of the
purchase-money, as they were bound in law, in equity, and
good conscience to do in this behalf, and without the knowledge
or consent of your orator and to your orator's damage and
injury."
At the opening of the bill it is expressly averred "that the
subject-matter of this complaint and the foundation and gravamen of this bill is the franchise, the trust, the breach of trust,
the collusion, conspiracy, and fraud between the defendants
and said Whipple & Dickerson, as. the trustees of your orator,
the rights and remedies of your orator against these defendants,
and the prayer for relief." It is then stated " that this cause
is an action on the case in the nature of a conspiracy, founded
upon the fraudulent intention and specific acts of the defendants to cheat, swindle, and defraud your orator of his franchise,
and the rights in the patent and trust property aforesaid, and
that said plan consists in an agreement with a common design
to do an unlawful act, and which plan, agreement, and conspiracy, being a common design to do an unlawful act, was
fully carried out, as will hereafter more fully appear, to the
great damage and injury of your orator."
It is nowhere alleged that these defendants had any actual
connection with the transactions of Whipple and Dickerson
otherwise than as corporators, stockholders, and directors of the
Missouri corporation, though it is stated that they "gave to
such fraudulent firm [Whipple & Dickerson] credit, character,
and support by dealing with them," &c., and that they "took
no steps whatever, legal or otherwise, to recover said property
or the proceeds thereof, or to stay Whipple & Dickerson in

AMBLER V. OHOTEAU.

[Sup. 0t.

the pursuit and furtherance of the fraud in the waste of the
proceeds.of the trust," &c.
The prayer is that the defendants may be enjoined "from
proceeding further with any dealings with the said partnership
and trust property aforesaid," and "that the damages to your
orator for the wrong and injury done in this behalf may be
duly considered, and that an account be taken thereof before
the master, . . . and that your orator, upon the final hearing,
be allowed, adjudged, and decreed damages therefor."
This is the substance of all there is material in the mass of
irrelevant matter that incumbers the record and fills the voluminous argument filed by the appellant in his own behalf.
Upon full consideration we have no hesitation in saying that it
presents no case for such relief in equity as is asked. If, as is
more than once distinctly alleged, the object of the suit is to
recover damages for an unlawful and fraudulent conspiracy to
cheat Ambler out of his interest in the original invention which
is the subject-matter of the controversy, the remedy is clearly
at law, and not in equity. If an account of profits is wanted,
and an injunction against the further use of the patented
inventions under the transfers from Whipple & Dickerson,
then the suit should have been against the Missouri corporation in its corporate capacity, and not against a part only of
its stockholders and directors individually. If the object is
to charge these defendants for the profits made by Whipple
through his breach of trust, then he is a necessary party, and
nothing can be done in his absence. In any event, these defendants are but purchasers from Whipple of specific interests in the property which he held in trust for himself and
Ambler. While the allegations of fraud in their general terms
are as broad as language can make them, specifically they are
confined by other allegations to the use of the patented invention in Missouri by the Missouri corporation, of which the defendants are stockholders and directors. It is not in any
manner alleged or claimed that the defendants have profited
by what Whipple has done, except through the title acquired
by the conveyance to Blunt & Insley, and from them, with the
consent of Whipple & Dickerson, the faithless trustees, to the
corporation. No effort is made to set aside these conveyances.

Oct. 1882.]

UNION TRUST 00. V. SOUTHER.

It is conceded that Blunt & Insley actually paid Whipple &
Dickerson 970,000 for the assignments which were made, and
it is fairly to be inferred that in the accounting had under the
decree of this court in Ambler v. Whipple & Dickerson, Whipple has been charged with the proceeds of this sale. But,
whether that be so or not, no case has been made by the loose
and general allegations in this bill for relief against these defendants. The words "fraud" and "conspiracy" alone, no
matter how often repeated in a pleading, cannot make a case
for the interference of a court of equity. Until connected with
some specific acts for which one person is in law responsible to
another, they have no more effect than other words of unpleasant signification. While in this case the offensive words are
used often enough, the facts to which they are applied are not
such as to make the defendants answerable to the complainant
for the damages and other relief he asks.
Decree affirmed.

UNIox TRUST CO I'PANY v. SOUTHER.
Where the complainant prays for the appointment of a receiver of mortgaged
railroad property, pending proceedings for foreclosure, the court, in the exercise of a sound discretion, may, as a condition of granting the prayer, impose
such terms touching the application of the income arising during the receivership to the payment of outstanding debts for labor, supplies, equipment, or
permanent improvement of the property, as under the circumstances of the
case appear reasonable. Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 2.35, and Miltenberger v.
Logansport Railway Co., 106 id. 286, cited and approved.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This appeal was taken because of a difference of opinion
between the circuit judge and the district judge holding the
Circuit Court as to a matter decided, and the facts on which
the questions certified depend may be stated as follows :On the 7th of October, 1871, the Cairo and St. Louis Railroad Company mortgaged its property, franchises, tolls, incomes, and profits to the Union Trust Company of New York,
APPEAL

