Oct. 1882.]

BALDWIN V. STARK.

responsible for knowledge which it had through any of its agents
or through its agents generally; whereas it was liable only for the
negligence or omission of those of its agents who were charged
with the duty of selecting and controlling its employ6s and its
general business. It is sufficient to say that this point- assuming
the instruction in question to be correct -was covered by the
last clause of the instruction to which our attention was first directed, and in terms quite as favorable to defendant as it was
entitled to under the law. The court, in that instruction, expressly said that to establish the alleged negligence, not only
the incompetency must be shown, "but it must be shown that
the defendant failed to exercise proper care or diligence to
ascertain his qualifications and competency prior to his appointment, or failed to remove him after his incompetency had come
to the notice of defendant or to some agent or officer of defendant having power to remove said McHenry."
It is not necessary to further extend the discussion of the
questions pressed upon our consideration. We are of opinion
that the case, in all of its aspects, was fairly placed before the
jury in the instructions given by the court. No substantial
error of law was committed to the prejudice of the company.
Judgment affirmed.

BAL~wwnN v., STAIIK.
1. This court has jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of the Supreme Court
of a State, rendered adversely to the right and title which a party to the
suit specially sets up to land under a patent issued by the United States
to another under whom he claims.
2. Where the Land Department rejected the claim of a party to pre-empt a tract
of public land, it appearing from the evidence submitted that he had previously exercised the "pre-emptive right," -Hdd, that the finding of that
fact by the department is conclusive.
3. A person is not entitled, under existing statutes, to more than one such "preemptive right," nor, after filing a declaratory statement for one tract, can
he file such a statement for another tract.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

BALDWIN V. STARK.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. G. I. E ambertson for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Samuel Shellabargerand Hr. Jeremiah 1. Wilson for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Nebraska, and the jurisdiction of this court is questioned.
The substance of the original bill in the State court is, that
in a contest for the right to enter a tract of land between Stark
and Van Pelt, before the Land Department, the Secretary. of
the Interior erroneously decided in favor of Van Pelt, to whom
a patent was issued ; and the prayer of the bill is that Baldwin, who holds under Van Pelt, shall be decreed to hold the
title in trust for Stark, and convey it to him, and be enjoined
from further prosecuting an action of ejectment against plaintiff, which he has commenced for the land in controversy.
That the decree which granted this relief denied to the plaintiffs in error the right which they. asserted under the patent
from the United States, and was a decision against the title
so asserted, and is therefore within sect. 709 of the Revised
Statutes, is too well settled by numerous similar cases decided
in this court to admit of further question. Johnson v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 72; Marquez v. Prisbie, 101 U. S. 473; _orrison v.
Stalnacer,104 id. 213.
The case was tried in the State court upon the record of the
proceedings before the land-office, including the evidence on
which the patent was issued to Van Pelt in the contest between him and Stark, with a stipulation involving a few other
unimportant matters.
That record 'shows that upon all the questions involved the department decided in favor of Stark, except one, which was that
he was disqualified to make the pre-emption claim he was then
prosecuting by reason of having previously exercised that right
in regard to other lands.
Whether he had thus made a filing of a former declaratory
statement was a question of fact much contested before the
department, in regard to which Stark himself was sworn, as
were also several other witnesses, and the record of the alleged
filing was also produced. On all this evidence the Commis-

Oct. 1882.]

BALDWIN V. STARK.

sioner of the General Land-Office decided that he had filed the
previous declaration, and was, therefore, disqualified as a preemptor of the land now in controversy. On appeal to the
Secretary of the Interior, this decision was affirmed, and Stark's
claim was rejected and Van Pelt's allowed, and the patent
issued to him.
The Supreme Court of Nebraska holds that the Land Department decided this question of fact erroneously, and that
Stark never filed or made the former declaratory statement,
that he was a qualified pre-emptor for the land patented to Van
Pelt, and decrees a conveyance to him by Baldwin of the legal
title vested by the patent. Stark v. Baldwin, 7 Neb. 114.
It has been so repeatedly decided in this court, in cases of
this character, that the Land Department is a tribunal appointed by Congress to decide questions like this, and when
finally decided by the officers of that department the decision
is conclusive everywhere else as regards all questions of fact,
that it is useless to consider the point further. Where fraud
or imposition has been practised on the party interested, or
on the officers of the law, or where these latter have clearly
mistaken the law of the case as applicable to the facts, courts
of equity may give relief; but they are not authorized to reexamine into a mere question of fact dependent on conflicting
evidence, and to review the weight which those officers attached to such evidence. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72;
Gibson v. Chouteau, id. 92; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330;
.Marquez v. Frslbie,101 id. 473.
The case before us is a simple re-examination by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska of the evidence on which the Commissioner
of the Land-Office and the Secretary of the Interior decided
that Stark had made a prior declaratory statement for the preemption of other land, and a reversal of that decision.
It is urged upon us that a written stipulation in the case
describing what evidence shall be introduced, and the right to
file written arguments, and that neither party shall be prejudiced by any defect in the pleadings, but that the case shall be
decided on its merits, is a waiver of this point.
But Van Pelt, the real party in interest, became a party to
the suit, in a court below, six months after this stipulation was
VOL. XVii.

80

CLOSE V. GLENWOOD

CEMETERY.

[Sup. Ct.

made between the counsel of Baldwin and of Stark, and is not
bound by it. It would be strange, also, if in a case like this
the right of the party to question the equitable jurisdiction of
the court on the facts found did not belong to the merits of the
case.
Some attempt is made to show that, under the decision
of this court in Johnson v. Towsley, the objection to a double
pre-emption does not apply except where the land is subject to
entry by purchase. But the court was there speaking of the
effect of such former filing of a declaration of intention under
'the act of 1841 on the rights afterwards asserted under the
act of 1843. It is sufficient to say that both these acts, with
all others on that subject, were consolidated in the Revised
Statutes, and sect. 2261, which is a reproduction of the law
in force when the rights of the parties here accrued, is positive
that, when a party has filed his declaration of intention to
claim the benefits of such provision (the right of pre-emption)
for one tract of land, he shall not at any future time file a
second declaration for another tract.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Nebraska must be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions
to affirm the decree of the District Court for the County of
Lancaster dismissing the bill; and it is
So ordered.

CLOSE v. GLENWO0D CEMETERY.

BOtRCHERLING v. GLEITWO0D CEMfETERY.
1. A cemetery company was incorporated in 1854 by an act of Congress which
authorized it to purchase and hold ninety acres of land in the District of
Columbia, and to receive gifts and bequests for the purpose of ornamenting
and improving the cemetery; enacted that its affairs should be conducted
by a president and three other managers, to be elected annually by the
votes of the proprietors, and to have power to lay out and ornament the
grounds, to sell or dispose of burial lots, and to make by-laws for the conduct of its affairs and the government of lot-holders and visitors; fixed the
amount of the capital stock, to be divided among the proprietors according
to their respective interests; and provided that the land dedicated to the
purposes of a cemetery should not be subject to taxation of any kind, and

