Oct. 1882.]

NEW YORK, ETC. CO. V. MEMPHIS WATER

Co.

205

mencing as early as April, prepared the plans and specifications
according to which the " Essayons" was afterwards built. It
is very strange that the copy of General McAlester's letters
to the department, and several other important exhibits that
were put in evidence, have not been inserted in the record
used on this appeal. Where the fault lies, it is not for us to
say. Sufficient appears, however, notwithstanding the evidence adduced to the contrary, consisting mostly of the testimony of the complainant himself, to convince us that Brady
derived his whole idea from the suggestions of General McAlester; and that the plans for the construction of the "E,ssayons"
originated entirely with that officer.
Our conclusion is, that the patent sued on cannot be sustained, and that the decree of the Circuit Court must be
reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss
the bill of complaint.
-Decreereversed accordingly].

NEW YoRK

GUARANTY CO17PANTY V. MEmPuIS WATER
COMPANY.

1. An assignee of a chose in action, or any other cestui que trust, cannot, merely
on the ground that his interest is an equitable one, proceed in a court of
equity to recover his demand. Hayward v. Andrews, 106 U. S. 672, cited
upon this point and approved.
2. The courts of the United States especially, in view of the act of Congress
declaring that suits in equity shall not be sustained where there is a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy at law, should enforce this rule.
3. Certain parties holding bonds secured by a mortgage filed their bill to recover
moneys alleged to be due on a contract which the city of Memphis made
with the mortgagor, and which was assigned in the mortgage as part of the
security for the bonds. Hdd, that the bill will not lie, the demand against
the city being cognizable at law in the name of the mortgagor, and no special circumstances shown for a resort to equity.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
rI. William 31. Randolph for the appellants.
31ir. Joseph B. Heihkell for the appellees.
APPEAL

206

NEW YORK, ETC. CO. V. MEMPHIS WATER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was commenced by a bill in equity filed by the
New York Guaranty and Indemnity Company and others,
holders of bonds of the Memphis Water Company, against said
Water Company, the city of Memphis, the trustees of a mortgage given to secure said bonds, and certain others of the
bondholders and persons interested. The principal object of
the bill was to have declared valid a certain contract made
between the city and the Water Company, and to compel the
city to comply with its terms, in order that the moneys alleged
to be due thereon from the city might be applied to the payment
of the bonds held by the complainants and others, the said contract being included in the mortgage. There was also a prayer
for a sale of all the property and privileges of the Water Company under the mortgage, and an alternative prayer that the
said contract might be cancelled if the court should hold it to
be void, and that then the city might be compelled to pay up a
subscription it had made to the stock of the Water Company,
or else that the stock might be cancelled. The circumstances
of the case on which the bill was founded may be briefly stated
as follows: The charter of the city of Memphis, amongst other things,
conferred upon its corporate authorities the power of supplying
the city with water for all purposes. But on the 28th of February, 1870, an act was passed chartering the Memphis Water
Company, and giving to it the exclusive privilege of laying
down water-pipes and extending aqueducts and conductors
through all or any of the streets, lanes, and alleys of the city,
and of supplying to the inhabitants water by public works.
Under this charter the company commenced operations for
laying pipes and erecting works without the acquiescence of the
city authorities. The city undertook to carry out a counter
scheme, which had been under consideration for several years.
A litigation ensued, which resulted in June, 1871, in a judgnent of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, confirming the Water
Company's exclusive right, and enjoining the city from interfering therewith, the court holding in substance that the
exclusive right given to the Water Company suspended that
of the city for the period named in the former's charter. There-

Oct. 1882.]

NEW YORK, ETC. CO. v. MEMIPHIS WATER

Co.

207

upon, on the 18th of January, 1872, the city and the Water
Company entered into a contract whereby, amongst other
things, the Water Company agreed to erect water-works in
the city, including a certain number of street hydrants, of a
peculiar construction, which the city agreed to hire for the
purpose of extinguisbing fires, and to pay therefor a certain
annual rent; and it was mutually agreed that the city should
receive one-half of the company's capital stock, amounting to
$100,000.
Immediately after this contract was executed the Water
Company took measures to raise money by an issue of bonds to
the amount of 5600,000. For this purpose they executed a
deed of trust in the nature of a mortgage to F. S. Davis, T. R.
Farnsworth of Memphis, and 3. L. Worth of New York,
whereby they conveyed all their franchises, lands, wells, pumps,
machinery, pipes, and other property then held and thereafter
to be acquired, and all the income which they might thereafter
"receive, acquire, or become entitled to, including all sums of
money which the party of the first part may become entitled to
receive from the city of Memphis under and by virtue of a contract made and entered into between the said city of Memphis
and the said party of the first part hereto on the eighteenth day
of January, A. D. 1872." This deed was declared to be given
for the purpose of securing the payment of six hundred bonds
of $1,000 each, payable to bearer, with interest at seven per
cent per annum semi-annually. In case default should be made
in payment of principal or interest, power was given to the
trustees to take possession of the property and books of the
company, and to collect all moneys due to it, including all sums
due or coming due from the city of Memphis under the said
contract, and to apply the same to the payment of unpaid interest on the bonds; and, if two successive instalments of interest
should be unpaid, the principal to become due, and at the request of a majority in interest of the bondholders, the trustees
should take possession, give notice, and sell the entire property
for cash, and apply the same to the payment of principal and
interest on the bonds.
The bonds provided for by this mortgage were duly issued
and disposed of, and the complainants represent themselves as

208

NEW YORK, ETC.

CO.

v. MEMPHIS WATER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

holding nearly all of them; those supposed to hold the remainder being made defendants.
It is alleged, and not denied, that on or prior to the 1st of
April, 1873, the water-works were completed and in operation,
and the hydrants stipulated for in the contract of January,
1872, were used by the city. But the city refusing to pay the
rent therefor, a suit was brought by the Water Company
against the city to recover the first instalment of rent due.
After the pleadings were filed, the writ and declaration were
amended by consent so as to be in the name of the Water Company, to the use of Davis, Farnsworth, and Worth, trustees of
the mortgage. The cause was tried in April, 1874, and a verdict was given and judgment rendered for the plaintiffs. The
Supreme Court of Tennessee, on writ of error, reversed this
judgment in December, 1876, and awarded a new trial, the
court holding that the contract between the city and the Water
Company was ultra vires of the city and absolutely void.
In the mean time, in May, 1875, whilst the writ of error was
pending, at the request of the requisite number of bondholders,
the trustees of the mortgage took possession of the property of
the Water Company, and proceeded to advertise the same for
sale. Thereupon one T. W. Yardley, a holder of some of the
bonds, filed a bill in equity in the Chancery Court of Shelby
County, Tennessee, alleging that the New York Guaranty and
Indemnity Company had obtained the bonds held by it for an
usurious and corrupt consideration, which made it inequitable
for that company to hold the said bonds, or at least for the full
amount thereof; and that said company was urging the trustees
to make said sale, which would at that time be at a sacrifice of
the property; and he prayed for an injunction to prevent the
sale, and for an investigation of the true amount due, if anything, to said New York Guaranty and Indemnity Company.
All - the bondholders as well as the Water Company itself were made parties to the suit. A temporary injunction was
granted. On the 25th of May, 1875, a decree was made by
consent of all parties, that the property should be exposed for
sale by the trustees on sixty days' notice, whenever the court in
its discretion should so order, on the demand of the requisite
number of bondholders, and that the mutual rights of the par-

Oct. 1882.]

NEW YORK, ETC. CO. V. MEMPHIS WATER

Co.

209

ties to a distribution of the proceeds should be ascertained by
the further litigation in the cause ; the trustees in the mean
time to keep possession of the property and account for all receipts and expenditures. An amendment to the bill was afterwards filed, which prayed an account to be taken of the amount
justly due to all parties, and for a foreclosure and sale of the
mortgaged premises. Answers and cross-bills were filed, nearly
all the bondholders appearing to assert their respective interests. In January, 1876, the cause Was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States, and further proceedings
took place in that court. On the 15th of May, 1876, the
trustees, at their own request, and with the assent of all parties,
were by decree discharged from the custody of the water-works,
and the president and secretary of the Water Company were
placed in charge; but it was stated in the decree that the
property was not thereby restored to the company itself, but to
be operated in the interest of the bondholders, and at all times
subject to the supervision and control of the court. In March,
1877, a few days after the filing of the bill in the present case,
a decree was made dismissing Yardley's bill and the several
cross-bills. An appeal was taken to this court, but was dismissed for want of prosecution. On the 2d of June, 1879
(after the final decree was made in the present case), the Circuit Court, on the application of the New York Guaranty and
Indemnity Company and others, holding a majority of the
bonds, made a decree in the Yardley suit, in pursuance of the
consent decrees of May 28, 1875, and May 15, 1876, ordering a
sale, by a commissioner appointed for that purpose, of all the
franchises, rights, privileges, and property conveyed by the
deed of mortgage, and authorizing the commissioner to receive
the bonds and coupons secured by the mortgage, as cash in
payment of the property, and foreclosing the equity of redemption. In answer to an application of the appellants here, it is
now shown by the appellees that the said decree for sale was
carried into effect in 1880, and the purchase-money paid, and
that in June of that year, pending this appeal, the Circuit
Court made a decree confirming said sale.
In the present case, the principal defence set up by the city
of Memphis, by answer and demurrer, was the alleged illeIvor. xVI.

14

210

NEw

YORK, ETC. CO. V. MEMPHIS

WATER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

gality of the contract, as adjudged by.the Supreme Court of
Tennessee. It was also insisted that there was a complete and
adequate remedy at law ; that if there was any cause of action
or complaint, it was vested in the Water Company and the
trustees of the mortgage, all of whom reside in Tennessee; and
that the complainants, if they have any claim, acquired it
through the assignment of the Water Company, which, itself,
could not maintain a suit in the United States court.' The
Circuit Court concurred in the view taken by the Supreme
Court of the State, and held that the contract on the part of
the city was ultra vires and void, and dismissed the bill by a
final decree rendered May 27, 1879. From this decree the
present appeal was taken.
The main object of the bill was to enforce the performance
of the contract made between the city of Memphis and the
Water Company; to have it declared binding, and to compel
the city to pay the rents due under it, in order that they might
be applied in satisfaction of the bonds held by the complainants and otfiers. There was added, it is true, a prayer for the
foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged property, and the application of the proceeds to the payment of the debts received.
But this latter relief was already provided for by the consent
decrees entered in the Yardley suit, which, as we are now informed, have been carried into effect at the instance of the
appellants themselves pending this appeal. The important
question to be considered is, whether the principal relief prayed
for can be granted in this suit.
The contract sought to be enforced was not made with the
complainants; nor has it ever been assigned to them. It was
made with the Water Company, and its interest therein was
assigned to the trustees of the mortgage, as part of the security
for the payment of the bonds held by the complainants.
Whatever interest the complainants have therein they derive as
beneficiaries under the mortgage through the assignment which
it contained. They stand in no better plight for the maintenance of the suit than the trustees would if they had brought
it. There seems to be no reason, indeed, why the suit was not
brought by the trustees. No allegation is made that they were
even unwilling to bring it. The legal interest of the mortgage

Oct. 1882.]

NEw YORK, ETC. Co. v. MEMPmHS WATER Co.

211

was in them, and they were the proper representatives of all
the bondholders, and the most proper persons to protect the
trust in their hands. Indeed they did bring a suit to enforce
the contract. The action at law brought in the name of the
Water Company against the city for the recovery of the first
instalment of rent was prosecuted for the use of the trustees ;
and this was really the proper mode of proceeding. Had the
judgment in that case been a final one, the questions raised in
this cause would have been resjudicata; but a new trial being
ordered it failed to have this effect. Thereupon, shortly after
the decision of the Supreme Court was rendered, the principal
bondholders, without, so far as appears, making any effort to
have that suit further prosecuted, brought this suit in the
Federal Court in their own names as complainants, and seek
in this indirect way to accomplish the same purpose which was
attempted to be obtained by the direct proceeding in the
State court. It is a manifest attempt to evade the decision of
the case by that court, which had full and adequate jurisdiction of the subject.
It was objected in lirnne, by the demurrer to the bill, that
as the complainants claim under the assignment of the contract made to the trustees, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, because the Water Company, with which the contract
was made, and which made the assignment, is a citizen of
Tennessee. This objection is insisted on here, and would seem
to be conclusive, if the citizenship of the parties were the only
ground of jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. The act of March
3, 1875, c. 137, declares that no Circuit or District Court shall
have cognizance of any suit founded on contract in favor of an
assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such
court to recover thereon if no assignment had been made.
This suit is founded on the contract between the city and the
Water Company; the whole claim of the bondholders to any
benefit therefrom depends upon the assignment thereof contained in the mortgage deed; and although the trustees of the
mortgage are the real assignees, the bondholders, as cestuis que
trust, claim under them and stand on no higher plane, as regards the right to sue, than the trustees themselves. The complainants, however, insist that this suit is cognizable by the

212

NEw YoRK, ETC. Co. v. ME1PHIS WATER Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Circuit Court by reason of that court's having judicial posses.
sion and control of the mortgaged property in the Yardley suit.
The bill and cross-bills in that suit, it has been seen, were dismissed; but the parties regarded the consent decrees entered
therein as giving the court authority to keep the property
under its control, and to cause it to be sold. Therefore, so far
as relates to the water-works themselves, and all the property
comprised in the mortgage which is susceptible of actual possession, the position of the appellants may be correct. But
the claim against the city does not lie in possession, but in contract alone. The contract itself may be subject to sale as
part of the mortgage assets; but the proceeds of the contract,
the money alleged to be due from the city to the Water Company under it, has never been reduced to possession, and the
city of Memphis denies its liability to pay it. In order to
reduce to possession the money claimed to be due, and subject
it to the control of the court, the ordinary mode of enforcing
the contract must be resorted to. It may be that the Circuit
Court had the power to direct such a proceeding to be had as
ancillary to its administration of the mortgage fund; but it
must be a proper proceeding, adapted to the nature of the
demand. If a promissory note were included in the mortgage
fund, and the parties liable upon it should refuse to pay it, the
Circuit Court might probably order the trustees of the mortgage to bring an action on the note; but a bill in equity would
hardly be considered a proper proceeding for enforcing its collection. The view we have taken with regard to the propriety
of the proceeding in this case, for enforcing the contract
against the city, renders it unnecessary to determine the question raised on 'the assignment of it by a citizen of Tennessee.
Whether the contract is, or is not, a valid one, and if valid,
what are the obligations of the city under it, and the damages
for the breach thereof, are pure questions of law, which the
city cannot, under ordinary circumstances, be compelled to litigate with any other party than the Water Company or its
legal assigns. If the parties having the legal interest refuse
to sue, those having the beneficial interest will be authorized
to use their names on giving them proper indemnity against
costs. The city has a right to be confronted with those who

Oct. 1882.]

NEW YORK, ETm. CO. V. MEMPHIS WATER Co.

213

have the legal interest in the contract, unless they absolutely
refuse the use of their names, or special circumstances exist
which would prevent or greatly embarrass the prosecution of
the suit. It does not lose its right to a trial at law by any
pledges or assignments which the Water Company may make
of its interest in the contract. Such pledges or assignments
may create equitable rights in regard to that interest, as between the Water Company and the assignees; but the contract, so far as the city is concerned, remains a matter of legal
cognizance. If a merchant should pledge his bills receivable'
as security for a loan, any equitable rights which arise between
him and his pledgee may be adjudged in equity; but the
makers and acceptors of the bills must be sued thereon at law.
And so here: whilst the equities between the Water Company
as mortgagor and the mortgagees, or those claiming under
them (such as the right of redemption, &c.), may be determined by a court of equity, the legal demand against the city
on the contract is cognizable at law, and should be prosecuted
in the ordinary courts of law, as was done in the action
brought in the name of the Water Company against the city.
Every question arising on the contract in this suit is determinable in an action at law, and was determined in the action
referred to.
Recurring for a moment to the leading facts: how does the
ease really stand? The trustees of the mortgage, on default
of the Water Company in payment of interest, took possession
of its works, and carried them on. In performing this duty
they found, or supposed they had found, that certain rents had
accrued and were accruing from the city for the use of the
hydrants, under the contract in question, which rents the city
refused to pay. To establish the contract and recover these
rents, their remedy was clear and adequate by an action at law
in the name of* the Water Company. They brought such an
action, and failed by the adverse decision of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee. Then the bondholders, dissatisfied with
this result, brought this suit in equity in the Federal court for
the purpose of raising the same questions anew. It is difficult
to see how they acquired any right to transfer the controversy from a court of law to a court of equity. The fact that

214

NEW YORK, ETC. CO. V. MEMPHIS WATER CO.

[Sup. Ct.

they have only a beneficial interest is not of itself sufficient.
Whether the legal interest in the contract remained in the
Water Company or became vested in the trustees, an action at
law could have been brought in the name of the party having
it. There is no allegation in the bill that either of these parties were applied to, or that they refused to allow such an
action to be brought in their names.
We have lately decided, after full consideration of the
authorities, that an assignee of a chose in action on which a
'complete and adequate remedy exists at law cannot, merely
because his interest is an equitable one, bring a suit in equity
for the recovery of the demand. Hayward v. Andrews, 106
U. S. 672. He must bring an action at law in the name of the
assignor to his own use. This is true of all legal demands
standing in the name of a trustee, and held for the benefit of
cestuis gue trust. Besides the authorities cited in that case,
reference may be made to Mitford on Pleading, 123, 125;
Willis's Equity Plead. 435, note (g); Adair v. Winchester,
7 Gill & Johns. (Md.) 114; Moseley v. Boush, 4 Rand. (Va.)
392; -Doggettv. Hart,5 Fla. 215; Smiley v. Bell, Mart. & Y.
(Tenn.) 378; and the English and American notes to Byall v.
Bowles, 1 Ves. Sen. 348, and to 2 White & Tudor's Leading
Cases in Equity, pp. 1567, 1670 (ed. 1877).
In view of the early enactment by Congress in the sixteenth
section of the Judiciary Act (Rev. Stat., sect. 728), declaring
"that suits in equity shall not be sustained in either of the
courts of the United States in any case where plain, adequate,
and complete remedy may be had at law," the rule laid down
in Hayward v. Andrews is entitled to special consideration
from the courts of the United States. This enactment certainly means something; and if only declaratory of what was
always the law, it must, at least, have been intended to emphasize the rule, and to impress it upon the attention of the
courts.
We think that the present case clearly falls within the rule.
The bill alleges no special circumstances which can properly
take it out of its operation. The fact that there are many
beneficiaries entitled to a distribution of the fund is not sufficient for that purpose. All the property covered by the mort-

Oct. 1882.]

COTZHAUSEN V. NAZRO.

gage deed constitutes one fund, and is to be brought together
and administered as such by first discharging the expenses of
the trust, and distributing the residue amongst the bondholders
pro rata. There is no such division and separation of interests
into distinct parcels as existed in the case of Field v. Mayor,
fe. f Noew York, reported in 6 N. Y. 179. The whole beneficiary interest is a unit, and is represented by the trustees of
the mortgage; and the case presents no difficulty or embarrassment in the way of an action at law.
We think, therefore, that the bill could have been properly
dismissed on this ground alone; and this renders it unnecessary for us to consider the other questions in the case.
Decree affirmed.

COTZHiAUSEN v. NAZRO.
1. Dutiable goods cannot lawfully be imported in the foreign mail under the
International Postal Treaty of Berne of Oct. 9, 1874. 19 Stat. 577.
2. Such goods are, in the hands of the receiver of them from the post-office,
subject to seizure; and the fact that there was no intent on the part of
the sender or the receiver of them to defraud the United States of the
duty, does not render the customs officer liable to an action for making
the seizure.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
11r. . W. Cotzhausen for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General 3laury for the defendant in
error.
AIR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit commenced before a justice of the peace
by Cotzhausen against Nazro and Payne, for seizing and converting to their own use a flexible woollen scarf or shawl of
the value of four dollars. It was removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States by a writ of certiorari, on the
ground that Nazro was collector of customs of the United

