CLOSE V. GLENWOOD

CEMETERY.

[Sup. Ct.

made between the counsel of Baldwin and of Stark, and is not
bound by it. It would be strange, also, if in a case like this
the right of the party to question the equitable jurisdiction of
the court on the facts found did not belong to the merits of the
case.
Some attempt is made to show that, under the decision
of this court in Johnson v. Towsley, the objection to a double
pre-emption does not apply except where the land is subject to
entry by purchase. But the court was there speaking of the
effect of such former filing of a declaration of intention under
'the act of 1841 on the rights afterwards asserted under the
act of 1843. It is sufficient to say that both these acts, with
all others on that subject, were consolidated in the Revised
Statutes, and sect. 2261, which is a reproduction of the law
in force when the rights of the parties here accrued, is positive
that, when a party has filed his declaration of intention to
claim the benefits of such provision (the right of pre-emption)
for one tract of land, he shall not at any future time file a
second declaration for another tract.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Nebraska must be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions
to affirm the decree of the District Court for the County of
Lancaster dismissing the bill; and it is
So ordered.

CLOSE v. GLENWO0D CEMETERY.

BOtRCHERLING v. GLEITWO0D CEMfETERY.
1. A cemetery company was incorporated in 1854 by an act of Congress which
authorized it to purchase and hold ninety acres of land in the District of
Columbia, and to receive gifts and bequests for the purpose of ornamenting
and improving the cemetery; enacted that its affairs should be conducted
by a president and three other managers, to be elected annually by the
votes of the proprietors, and to have power to lay out and ornament the
grounds, to sell or dispose of burial lots, and to make by-laws for the conduct of its affairs and the government of lot-holders and visitors; fixed the
amount of the capital stock, to be divided among the proprietors according
to their respective interests; and provided that the land dedicated to the
purposes of a cemetery should not be subject to taxation of any kind, and

Oct. 1882.]

CLOSE

V. GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

no highways should be opened through it, and that it should be lawful for
Congress thereafter to alter, amend, modify or repeal the act. Presently
afterwards thirty of the ninety acres were laid out as a cemetery, the cemetery was dedicated by public religious services, and a pamphlet was published, containing a copy of the charter, a list of the officers, an account of
the proceedings at the dedication, describing the cemetery as "altogether
comprising ninety acres, thirty of which are now fully prepared for intermnts," and the by-laws of the corporation, which declared that all lots
should be held in pursuance of the charter. No stock was ever issued.
But the owner of the whole tract, named in the charter as one of the original associates, and in the list published in the pamphlet as the president
and a manager of the corporation, knowing all the above facts, and never
objecting to the appropriation of the property as appearing thereby, for
more than twenty years managed the cemetery, sold about two thousand
burial lots, and gave to each purchaser a copy of the pamphlet, and a deed
of the lot, signed by himself as president, bearing the seal of the corporation, and having the by-laws printed thereon. In 1877 Congress passed an
act, amending the charter of the corporation, providing that its property
and affairs should be managed, so as to secure the equitable rights of all
persons having any vested interest in the cemetery, by a board of five trustees to be elected annually, three by the proprietors of lots owned in good
faith upon which a burial had been made, and two by the original proprietors; and that of the gross receipts arising from the future sale of lots
one-fourth should be annually paid by the trustees to the original proprietors and the rest be devoted to the improvement and maintenance of the
cemetery. Hed, that the act of 1877 was a constitutional exercise of
the power of amendment reserved in the act of 1851; that the owner of
the land was estopped to deny the existence of the corporation, the setting
apart of the whole ninety acres as a cemetery, and the right of the lotholders to elect a majority of the trustees; and that he was in equity bound
to convey the whole tract to the corporation in fee, and to account to the
corporation for three-fourths of the sums received by him from sales of
lots since the act of 1877; and the corporation to pay him one-fourth of the
gross receipts from future sales of lots.
2. Pending a bill in equity against the owner of land to compel a conveyance of
the title, subject to certain rights of his in the rents and profits, a receiver
appointed in another suit against him, and to whom lie had by order of
court in that suit assigned his interest in the land, applied to be and was
made a defendant, and answered, and also filed a cross-bill against both the
original parties, which was afterwards ordered to be stricken from the files,
with leave for him to apply for leave to file a cross-bill; but lie never.
applied for such leave. The case was heard upon pleadings and proofs,
and a final decree entered ordering the original defendant to convey to the
complainant, and the complainant to account to him or his assigns for part
of the rents and profits, and that this decree be without prejudice to the
rights of the receiver. Held, that the receiver was.not aggrieved.
APPEALS from the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

CLOSE

v.

GLENWOOD

CEMETERY.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. J. Hubley Ashton and Mr. Nathaniel Wilson for Close.
M1 r. Cortlandt Parker and Mr. Walter D. -Davidge for Borcherling.
Mr. Thomas W. Bartley, Hr. William P. Yattingly, and Hr.
J"esup Miller for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed on the 25th of October, 1877,
by the Glenwood Cemetery, claiming to be a corporation established by act of Congress, against Joseph B. Close, William
S. Humphreys, Randolph S. Evans and George Clendenin,
praying for a conveyance of the legal title in a tract of land
containing ninety acres, situated in the District of Columbia,
known as the Glenwood Cemetery; and for an account. The
bill was afterwards dismissed by consent as against Humphreys
and Evans. The material facts, as shown by the proofs, are
as follows: In June, 1852, I-umphreys, for the sum of $9,000, bought of
Junius J. Boyle the tract of land in controversy, and took from
him a deed of it, and immediately set about preparing it for
use as a cemetery. He enclosed with a high fence, and laid
out with drives and walks, and improved and embellished,
thirty acres of it, leaving the other sixty acres in their original
unimproved condition; and in March, 1853, put Clendenin in
charge as superintendent. Humphreys conveyed to Close an
undivided half of the premises in April, 1853, and the whole
tract in June, 1854. The two deeds were absolute in form, but
were, in fact, intended as security; the first for the repayment
of $20,000, advanced to Humphreys by Close, for the purpose,
as Close knew, of converting the estate into a cemetery; and
the second for the repayment of other advances to the amount
of $7,000, already made to him by Close, for the same purpose,
and of subsequent like advances, of the amount of which there
is no evidence but Close's own vague and unsatisfactory testimony, unsupported by books or vouchers; and the parties
agreed in writing that if Humphreys should meet his obligations, he should have back one-half of the land. Humphreys
thenceforward managed the property, acting for himself and
Close, through Clendenin as superintendent, until September,

Oct. 1882.]

CLOSE

v. GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

1859, when, having failed to meet his engagements, he relinquished all his interest in the property to Close, and Close
became sole owner, and assumed control of the property, retaining Clendenin as his superintendent to manage the cemetery.
On the 27th of July, 1854, Congress passed an act entitled
"An Act to incorporate the proprietors of Glenwood Cemetery,"
by which twelve persons named, eight of them residents of the
District of Columbia, and the other four being Close and William Phelps, (since deceased,) residents of New Jersey, and
Humphreys and Evans, residing in New York, were created a
corporation by the name of "The Proprietors of Glenwood
Cemetery in the District of Columbia," and were empowered
"to purchase and hold not exceeding one hundred acres of land
in the District of Columbia, north of the limits of the City of
Washington; to sell and dispose of such parts of said land as
may not be wanted for the purpose of a cemetery, provided
that at least thirty contiguous acres shall be forever appropriated and set apart as a cemetery; with authority to said
corporation to receive gifts and bequests for the purpose of
ornamenting and improving said cemetery;" and it was enacted
that the affairs of the corporation should be conducted by a
president and three managers, to be "elected annually by a
majority of the votes of the proprietors," and "each proprietor
entitled to one vote for each share held by him," and that until
the first election the four last-named persons should be managers; that the president and managers should have power,
among other things, "to lay out and ornament the grounds,"
"to lay out and sell or dispose of burial lots," and "to make
such by-laws, rules and regulations as they may deem proper
for conducting the affairs of the corporation, for the government of lot-holders and visitors to the cemetery, and for the
transfer of stock and the evidence thereof ; " that "the capital
stock of said company shall, be represented by two thousand
shares of fifty dollars each, divided among the proprietors according to their respective interests, and transferable in such
manner as the by-laws may. direct; " that "no streets, lanes,
alleys, roads, or canals of any sort shall be opened through the
property of said corporation, exclusively used and appropriated
to the purpose of a cemetery; provided, that nothing herein

CLOSE V. GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

[Sup. at.

contained shall authorize said corporation to obstruct any public
road or street or lane or alley now actually opened and used as
such;" that any person wilfully destroying, injuring or removing
any tomb, monument, gravestone, fence, railing, tree or plant
within the limits of the cemetery, should be considered guilty
of a misdemeanor; that "each of the stockholders in the said
company shall be held liable in his or her individual capacity
for all the debts and liabilities of the said company, however
contracted or incurred ; ". that "burial lots in said cemetery
shall not be subject to the debts of the lot-holders thereof, and
the land of the company dedicated to the purposes of a cemetery shall not be subject to taxation of any kind;" that a certificate, under seal ?f the corporation, of the ownership of
any lot, should have the same effect as a conveyance of real
estate; and that "it may be lawful for Congress hereafter to
alter, amend, modify or repeal the foregoing act." 10 Stat.
789.
On the 2a of August, 1854, the ceremony of dedicating the
cemetery by appropriate religious services and addresses was
performed on the spot in the presence of a number of people.
Immediately afterwards a pamphlet was published and generally circulated, containing a copy of the charter, a list of the
officers, including Close, Phelps, Humphreys and Evans, managers, Close, president, Humphreys, treasurer, and Clendenin,
superintendent; a full account of the proceedings at the dedication, in which the property was spoken of as set apart and
consecrated for the burial of the dead, and as "altogether comprising ninety acres, thirty of which are now fully prepared for
interments;" and the by-laws of the cemetery, of which the
first was, "All lots shall be held in pursuance of ' An Act to
incorporate the Proprietors of Glenwood Cemetery,' approved
July 27, 1854, and shall be used for the purposes of sepulture
alone."
Close soon after received a copy of this pamphlet from Humphreys, and from that time to the filing of the bill never
objected to the appropriation of the property in the manner
appearing thereby. In the course of the next twenty years,
about two thousand lots were sold, and each purchaser was
given a copy of the pamphlet, and a certificate or deed of his

Oct. 1882.]

CLOSE

v.

GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

lot, signed by Close as president, bearing the seal of the company, and having the by-laws printed thereon. The gross
receipts from the time of the opening of the cemetery to 1876
were 5160,000. No stock was ever issued as provided in the
charter.
No taxes were ever paid on any part of the ninety acres.
At different times from 1871 to 1876, taxes were assessed, or
proposed to be assessed, by the municipal authorities, upon the
sixty acres which had not been improved. But Close and Clendenin, by representing to the assessors and collector that the
whole tract had been dedicated to burial purposes in accordance with the charter, and by exhibiting to them the charter
and the pamphlet containing the account of the dedication,
induced them to recognize the exemption of the whole tract
from taxation.
On the 28th of February, 1877, Congress passed an act,
amending the act of the 27th of July, 1854; changing the
name of the corporation to "The Glenwood Cemetery;" providing that its property and affairs should be under the control
of a board of five trustees, any three of whom should be a quorum, to be elected annually, " three by the proprietors of lots
in said cemetery" (each to be " entitled to one vote for each
lot owned by him in good .faith, upon which a burial has been
made") "and two by the original proprietors," and to have
authority to fill temporary vacancies in the board; that these
trustees should so conduct the affairs of the cemetery " as to
secure the equitable rights of each and every person having in
any way any vested interest in the said cemetery; and the
cemetery shall be amenable and subject to the jurisdiction of
the equity courts of the District of Columbia for any disregard
of the rights or interests of any person whatsoever;" that "the
words ' the proprietors,' where they occur in the original act of
incorporation hereby amended, shall be interpreted and construed to mean and shall signify the proprietors of lots in said
cemetery, and which is hereby now declared by this amendment to be the true intent and meaning of said words; " and
that, of the gross receipts arising " from the sale of lots hereafter sold of the ground now dedicated to burial purposes," onefourth should be annually paid by the trustees to the original

CLOSE v. GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

[Sup. Ct.

proprietors, and the rest be devoted to the improvement and
maintenance of the cemetery. 19 Stat. 266.
Pursuant to this act, the owners of lots chose three trustees,
who, on the refusal of Close to recognize the corporation as
existing, or to appoint two other trustees, filled up the vacancies in the board, and, on the refusal of Close, and of Clendenin
as his agent, to deliver up possession to them, filed this bill to
compel a conveyance of the legal title and a delivery of possession of the whole tract, and an account of the proceeds of any
lots sold since the organization under the act of 1877.
The defences set up by Close and Clendenin, in their answers
and at the argument, are that there never was any acceptance
of the act of 1854, or formal organization of the corporation
under it, but the property remained the private property of
Close, except such lots as had been sold, for which 'he was
ready to give a legal title to the holders; that the act of 1877
was unconstitutional and void, as depriving him of his property
without adequate compensation; and that no part of the sixty
acres not enclosed was ever dedicated to the purposes of a cemetery in such a way as to interfere with his absolute control
over it.
After Close and Clendenin had put in their answers, Charles
Borcherling filed a petition to be admitted as a defendant to
the bill, alleging that he bad been appointed receiver under
a decree for alimony rendered in a. suit for divorce brought
against Close by his wife in the Court of Chancery of New
Jersey, and that, In obedience to an order of that court, Close
had executed to him as such receiver an assignment of all his
personal estate, the rents and profits of his real estate, and
"especially the capital stock of the Glenwood Cemetery in
Washington in the District of Columbia, and all profits, dividends or other moneys to me coming therefrom, or from any
office thereof." This petition of Borcherling was granted, and
he filed an answer to the original bill, setting up these facts.
He also filed a cross-bill, praying that Close convey the title in
the cemetery to the corporation, and that the corporation issue
and deliver to Borcherling as receiver as aforesaid stock to the
amount of one hundred thousand dollars. On motion of Close
and Clendenin, the court afterwards ordered the cross-bill of

Oct. 1882.]

CLOSE v. GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

Borcherling to be stricken from the files, with leave to him
to apply for leave to file a cross-bill. He never applied for
such leave. But the corporation filed a general replication
to the answers of Close, Clendenin and Borcherling, proofs
were taken, and the case was heard and decided upon the
merits.
By the final decree of the court below, it was adjudged that
Close convey the whole tract of ninety acres to the plaintiff
corporation in fee-simple; that Close and Clendenin deliver to
the plaintiff all books, plans, records and personal property,
belonging to or used in connection with its business, and be
perpetually enjoined from interfering with or obstructing the
plaintiff in the possession and management of the cemetery;
and the court being further of opinion that Close was entitled
to be compensated for the transfer of his title in the land as
the original proprietor thereof, and that the provision made for
this object by the act of Congress of 1877 was an equitable adjustment of the rights of Close, and a reasonable compensation
for his title and interest in the property, both in amount and
in mode of payment, regard being had to the needs of the
cemetery, it was further adjudged that the plaintiff annually
hereafter account for and pay to him or his assigns one-fourth
of the gross receipts from sales to be made of lots in the cemetery; and that an account be taken of his receipts from the
cemetery since the act of 1877 took effect, and that he be
charged in favor of the plaintiff with all sums, over and above
one-fourth of the gross receipts from sales of lots, which had
been applied to his own use and not properly disbursed on
account of the cemetery, and that he pay the costs of suit; and
that this decree be without prejudice to the claims of Borcherling as receiver as aforesaid.
From that decree appeals have been taken and argued by
Close and Clendenin and by Borcherling.
The appeal of Borcherling may be briefly disposed of. The
order striking his cross-bill from the files reserved leave to him
to apply to the court for leave to file a cross-bill. He never
made any such application, but, after replication filed to the
answers of himself and of the other defendant, suffered proofs
to be taken upon the issues so made up, and the case to proceed

CLOSE V. GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

[Sup. Ct.

to a final decree; and the final decree is expressed to be made
without prejudice to his rights as receiver. Under these circumstances, there is nothing in the proceedings of the court
below prejudicial to those rights, or which entitles him to a
reversal of the final decree and to a reopening of the whole
case.
Upon the merits of the case, as presented by the appeal of
Close and Clendenin, it will be convenient to consider first the
question whether, assuming that the charter granted by Congress in 1854 must be held to have been duly accepted by the
corporation, and the corporation to have been legally organized
under it, the act of 1877 is within the power of alteration,
amendment and repeal, reserved to Congress in the original
charter.
The terms of that charter show that it was not intended to
create a mere land company, for the exclusive benefit of the
original associates and their successors holding shares in the
stock of the corporation; but that the ultimate and "principal
object was to establish and permanently maintain a cemetery
for the burial of the dead, which, if not a strictly charitable
use, is in some aspects a pious and public use, and was evidently so regarded by Congress. If the corporation were to be
exclusively a private business corporation, created for the sole
benefit of the original associates and their successors as holders
of shares, Congress would hardly have inserted in the charter
the provision authorizing the corporation to receive gifts and
bequests for the purpose of ornamenting and improving the
cemetery, or the provisions exempting the property from all
taxation, and prohibiting the future laying out of any public
ways through it.
At first, indeed, the whole immediate benefit derived from
the property would be that resulting to the shareholders from
the sale of lots, by way of dividend out of so much of the
moneys received as might not be needed to be expended or
reserved for the laying out, ornamenting and maintenance of
the cemetery. But as fast as lots were sold, the property and
interest of those purchasing and holding the land for its ultimate use of the permanent burial of the dead would increase,
and the interest of the original associates would diminish. The

Oct. 1882.]

CLOSE V. GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

profits to be derived from the sale of the land would cease, as
to each parcel, as soon as it was sold for a burial lot. When
the lots were all sold, the pecuniary interest of the associates
or shareholders would disappear; but the duty to keep up the
cemetery would remain, and the owners of lots would be the
only persons having a peculiar interest in keeping it up. The
corporation, in short, was established to secure and maintain,
not merely the right of sale, but the right of burial, and was
the representative, not only of the original proprietors of the
land, but also of the subsequent purchasers of lots therein.
At the beginning, before any lots were sold, the owners
of shares, divided among the proprietors according to their
respective interests, would necessarily be the only persons concerned, or who could elect the officers of the corporation and
managers of the cemetery. But with the gradual change of
interest, resulting from the sale of lots, it was in full accord
with the provisions of the charter, and best tended to carry out
the main purpose of permanently maintaining a cemetery for
the burial of the dead, that the holders of lots should take part
in the election and so have a voice in the management.
After the cemetery had been laid out, improved and used
for the burial of the dead for more than twenty years, and two
thousand burial lots had been sold, it was a reasonable exercise
of the reserved power of Congress to authorize the owners in
good faith of lots upon which burials had been made, to elect a
majority of the trustees, in whom should be vested the control
and management of the cemetery, with a due regard to the
equitable rights of all persons having any vested interest therein; and to provide that a portion only of the receipts arising from the future sale of lots should be paid to the original
proprietors, and the rest be devoted to the improvement and
maintenance of the cemetery. Every legislative act is to be
presumed to be a constitutional exercise of legislative power until
the contrary is clearly established; and there is nothing in the
record before us to show that the proportion of one-fourth of
the gross receipts from future sales of lots, which is fixed by
the act of Congress of 1877 and by the decree of the court below, as a compensation for the title and interest of the original
proprietors and associates, is not a reasonable one.

CLOSE

v.

GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

[Sup. Ct;.

It follows that the act of Congress of 1877 must be deemed
constitutional aiid valid, within the principle affirmed by this
court in the case of The Holyoke Dam, that a power reserved
to the legislature to alter, amend or repeal a charter authorizes
it to make any alteration or amendment of a charter granted
subject to it, which will not defeat or substantially impair the
object of the grant, or any rights vested under it, and which
the legislature may deem necessary to secure either that object
or any public right. Commissioners on nland Fisheries v.
ifolyoke Water Power Co., 104 Mass. 446, 451; Tolyoke
Company v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500, 522. In the exercise of
such a power by the United States, as was observed by the
Chief Justice in delivering the opinion of the court in the
Sinking Fund Cases, "it is not only their right, but their duty,
as sovereign, to see to it that the current stockholders do not,
in the administration of the affairs of the corporation, appropriate to their own use that which in equity belongs to others."
99 U. S. 700, 725.
The question then recurs whether, as against Close, the corporation must be held to have been duly organized under the
act of Congress of 1854.
Upon this question the facts are these: Close knew that the
act of incorporation had been granted by Congress, in which
he was named as one of the original associates; that the cemetery had been dedicated and set apart by public religious ceremonies for the burial of the dead; that a pamphlet had been
published, containing a full account of those ceremonies, the
names of a full board of officers, including himself as president
and one of the-managers, and Clendenin as superintendent,
and a code of by-laws, by the very first of which all lots were
to be held in pursuance of the act of incorporation and to be
used for the purposes of sepulture alone. With full knowledge
of these facts, Close, for more than twenty years, exercised
through Clendenin the sole management of the cemetery, and
issued deeds and certificates of burial lots to the number of
more than two thousand, bearing the corporate seal, and his
own signature as president of the corporation, and having the
by-laws printed on them. Being himself the owner of the
whole land, he dealt with it in all respects as if it belonged to

Oct. 1882.]

CLOSE v. GLENWOOD CEMETERY.

the corporation, and so represented it to the purchasers of lots.
As no other person owned any part of the land or was entitled
to a share in the corporation, the fact that no stock has been
issued or divided is immaterial.
One who deals with a corporation as existing in fact is
estopped to deny as against the corporation that it has been
legally organized. And in a court of equity, at least, the
owner of land, who stands by and sees it conveyed as belonging
to another, cannot afterwards set up his own title against the
grantee. The present case is yet stronger. Close did not
merely deal with the corporation, and permit the corporation
to convey parts of his land to purchasers of lots. But he himself assumed to act as the corporation, and himself made the
conveyance, and the accompanying representations, to every
purchaser.
By his acts he represented to the purchasers of lots that the
cemetery had been created and the land was owned by the corporation under the charter of 1854, and, as a necessary consequence, that the corporation, and all rights derived from it,
were subject to the provisions of that charter, including the
reservation to Congress of the power of alteration, amendment
or repeal. It is upon these representations that the purchasers
of lots have acquired their title and have parted with their
money ; and the corporation, whose existence he, at least, cannot deny, has the right and the duty, as the representative and
in behalf of all the purchasers of lots, to enforce against him
the obligation which he has thereby assumed. He holds the
fee of the cemetery in trust for the corporation, and is entitled
to nothing, as against the corporation and those whom it represents, but such compensation for his interest as original proprietor or stockholder, as is consistent with the state of things
which he has represented to exist.
It is argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that
the estoppel and the obligation of Close cannot extend beyond
the thirty acres which had been actually laid out. This argument appears to us to be fully met and answered in the able
and thorough opinion of the court below, delivered by Mr.
Justice Cox, who says: "It was held out to the lot-holders,
not only that the ground immediately available for burial

WILLTAMS V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

should remain set apart for that object, but that the cemetery
should be for ever under the protection of a perpetual corporation, charged with the duty of laying out and ornamenting the
grounds, capable of receiving gifts and bequests, and empowered
to make by-laws for the regulation of the affairs of the corporation; and the whole property was described as dedicated to
the purposes of the cemetery, not necessarily that the whole
should be laid out into lots, but that it should all belong to the
institution and be available for its general objects. This was
not to be a mere graveyard in which each lot-holder acquired a
piece of ground in which to bury his dead, and at the same time
become chargeable with the sole care of his particular lot; but
the lot-holders themselves became subject to by-laws and regulations having reference to the institution as an entirety, and
the perpetual preservation of the cemetery as an ornamental
and convenient place for interment and for resort by the relatives of the dead." Glenwood Cemetery v. Close, 7 Washington
Law Reporter, 214, 218.
Decree affrmed.

WMLIA~IS V. JACKSON.
JACKSON v. STICKNEY.
1. By a trust deed, duly recorded, land was conveyed to the trustees in fee, and
they were authorized to release it to the grantor upon payment of the
negotiable promissory note thereby secured. Before that note was paid or
payable, and after it had been negotiated to an indorsee in good faith for
full value, a deed of release, reciting that it had been paid, was made to
the grantor by the trustees and by the payee of the note, and recorded;
and the grantor executed and recorded a like trust deed to secure the payment of a new note for money lent to him by another person, who had no
actual notice that the first note had been negotiated and was unpaid, and
who, before he would make the loan, required and was furnished with a
conveyancer's abstract of title, showing that the three deeds were recorded
and the land free from incumbrance. Held, that the legal title was in the
trustee, under the second trust deed, and that the note thereby secured was
entitled to priority of payment out of the land.
2. Upon a bill in equity by the holder of a debt secured by deed of trust, to set
aside a release negligently executed by the trustee to the grantor, the complainant cannot have a decree for the payment of his debt by the trustee
personally.

