THE "JULIA BLAKE."

THE "JULIA

[Sup. Ct.

BLA=E."

I. The master of a vessel can neither sell nor hypothecate the cargo, except
in case of urgent necessity; and he can only lawfully do what is directly
or indirectly for its benefit, considering the situation in which it has been
placed by the accidents of the voyage.
2. The necessity under which he acts is a question of fact, to be determined in
each case by its circumstances; and upon his hypothecation of the cargo
under his implied authority the lenders are chargeable with notice of the
facts on which he appears to rely as his justification, and they must make
inquiries and judge for themselves and at their own risk whether the owner,
if present, would do or ought to d9 what, in his absence, the master is undertaking to do for him. Before there can be a recovery against the owner,
it must be shown that the circumstances were such as to make it apparently
proper for the master to do what he has done. To this extent the burden
of proof is clearly on the lenders.
3. Where it appears that from the port where the vessel entered in distress the
cargo could be forwarded by another vessel, and that it was for the interest of the shipper that it should be so forwarded, instead of being hypothecated to pay for the repairs of the vessel, and that they could not have
been effected without an expense to him of very much more than it would
cost to reclaim his property, pay all lawful charges on it, and forward it
by another vessel, -Held, that the master had no authority to pledge the
cargo without the consent of the shipper or the consignee.
4. Although the bottomry bond cannot be enforced against the cargo, the latter
will not be held in that suit for any charges which the vessel may have
thereon, where a claim for them is not made in the libel.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.

11Mr. George De ForestLord for the appellant.
Mr. Everett P. Wheeler for the appellee.
MR. CHIF JuSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit instituted by the Bank of St. Thomas, as the
holder of a bottomry bond, against the British brigantine "Julia
Blake," her cargo and freight. The decree of the District
Court condemned the vessel and freight, but acquitted the
cargo and its claimants. No appeal was taken on behalf of
the vessel and freight, but the libellant carried the case to the
Circuit Court for a review of the decree as to the cargo. The

Oct. 1882.]

THE "JULIA BLAKE."

bond was for $11,600, with fourteen per cent marine premium,
and the net proceeds of the vessel and freight were about
$3,500. On the hearing in the Circuit Court the libel was
again dismissed as to the cargo, and from a decree to that effect
this appeal was taken.
The facts found by the Circuit Court, on which, in our
opinion, the rights of the parties depend, may be stated as
follows The "Julia Blake," a British vessel, owned by Peter Blake, of
Nova Scotia, left Rio de Janeiro on or about the 31st of March,
1876, for New York, having on board a cargo consisting of
five hundred and eighty-two logs of rosewood. The bills of
lading were three in number, and were drawn to the order
of James Philip Mee, of Rio de Janeiro, the shipper, for two
hundred and fifty-three, one hundred and thirty-nine, and one
hundred and ninety logs, respectively. About two hundred of
the logs belonged to Mee, but the claimants had made advances
on them to him. All the rest belonged to the claimants. The
charter-party was dated March 16, 1876, and named Mee as
the charterer. The stipulated freight was X220, of which
£110 was paid in advance.
Mee gave the master of the vessel on sailing a letter of instructions, directing him to proceed to New York and there
consign his vessel and cargo to Winthrop Cunningham & Sons,
Philadelphia, the claimants, or their agents, and if compelled,
by stress of weather or other accident, to put into St. Thomas,
to consign the vessel to Lamb & Co. The voyage was prosecuted with safety until the 3d or 4th of May, on one of which
days the rigging of the vessel parted, and her masts fell, the
mainmast breaking at the saddle, about six feet above the
deck, the foremast at the head. The fallen spars and wreck
remained for some time alongside and thumping before they
could be cleared away. This rendered it imprudent to prosecute the voyage, and the master properly made for St. Thomas
as a port of distress, where he arrived on the 27th of May.
On his arrival he applied to the acting British consul, who
directed a survey to be made by the harbor-master, the
principal shipwright at the port, and the master of a vessel.
They properly recommended a discharge of the cargo, and it

THE " JULIA BLAKE."

[Sup. Ct.

was necessary to strip the vessel of her copper to stop the
leak. The cargo was discharged, and on the 8th of June a
second survey ordered by the consul on the application of
the master. A copy of the report of the second survey, although in evidence, is not incorporated into the findings, nor
are its contents stated, further than that the vessel was making as much water as at the time of the first survey, and
that her metal had been much broken and was torn away
and ragged.
When the master arrived at St. Thomas he went to several
mercantile houses and seemed to be seeking a proper party to
whom to consign the vessel. He finally went to Lamb & Co.
and engaged them to attend to the business of the vessel
and the repairs. He did not show them his charter-party
or letter of instructions, but told them he had lost those
papers.
Upon the arrival of the vessel at St. Thomas the master
wrote his owner as follows:"S. S. ' Beta,' via Halifax.
"SAINT THOMAS, 27th May, 1876.
Esq., Parsboro, Nova Scotia :
"DEAR SIR,- I regret to have to report that the brigantine
"Julia Blake," on her voyage from Rio de Janeiro, encountered
heavy weather on the 4th inst., and for the safety of lives, vessel,
and cargo, I was compelled to cut away to righten the vessel, and
to put into this port, as we were in a too disabled condition to go
north. A survey will be held on Monday, and I will supplement
this letter by a telegram acquainting you what the surveyors recommend to be done in her present leaky and damaged state; it
will likely be necessary to discharge to ascertain damage, and for
new masts, &c. This mail closes at once, so I must defer giving
you full particulars until next steamer.
"I remain, sir, your obedient servant,
" (Signed)
ABRAM KNOWLTON."
"PTER BLAKE,

On the 29th of May he sent the following telegram to the
owner: -

"I Julia Blake,' St. Thomas, dismasted, leaky; consigned Lamb;
sending survey by mail."

Oct. 1882.]

THE "JULIA BLAKE."

Afterwards Lamb & Co., on the 13th of June, and the 22d
of June, wrote the owner. Copies of their letters are as
follows: -

"French frigate ' Minerve,' via Philadelphia.
"ST. THomAs, 13 June, 1876.
"PETER BLAKE, Esq., Parsboro, Nova Scotia:

"Sin, - We have to confirm Captain Knowlton's letter to you,
dated 27th ult., acquainting you that the dismasted brig 'Julia
Blake' had put in here in a leaky and disabled condition.
" By surveyors' recommendation the vessel has been discharged,
and is to-day on the marine repairing slip, for shipping and caulking, &c.; masts, sails, &c., are being made, and in the course of
another month the ' Julia Blake' will probably be ready for sea in a
seaworthy state.
"Captain Knowlton dispatched you a telegram, thus: ""'Julia Blake," St. Thomas, dismasted, leaky; consigned
Lamb; sending survey by mail.'
on the 29th ult., which no doubt reached you promptly and correctly. From his not receiving any reply from you, he concluded
that you wished him to follow the customary routine with documents, &c. Meantime we hand, herein, certified copy of extended
protest from the 'British consulate,' which may interest you. No
doubt your letters will state in what manner accounts here are to
be paid.
"We remain, sir, yours faithfully,
"(Signed)

LAMAB & Co."

"'Alpha,' via Halifax.
"ST. TnomAs, 22d June, 1876.
"PETER BL.KE, Esq., Parsboro, Nova Scotia:

"SiR, - We last wrote you on the 13th instant, via Philadelphia, with certified copy of extended protest per ' Julia Blake,' which
we trust has reached you safely.
"The S. S. 'Alpha' arrived here to-day from Halifax without
bringing us any letter from you, but Captain Knowlton tells us that
he had a communication, and we therefore refer you to him or his
advices for particulars, in connection with the repairing and refitting of the brigantine ' Julia Blake.
"We suppose that your next will furnish instructions regarding
funds for expenses here; if you don't provide the needful, same

THE " JULIA BLAKE."

[Sup. Ct.

will likely be raised by bottomry and respondentia loan, payable on
arrival at New York.
"The ' Julia Blake' should be ready for sea about 15th proximo,
and
"We remain, sir, your obedient servants,
"(Signed)

LA-NB & Co."

To these letters of Lamb & Co., Blake, the owner, replied
thus :
"P-RSBORO, July 4th, 1876.
" JA r s DONALD LA-t & Co., Esqrs., St. Thomas:
,1Dj@AR Sins, - I received your favor yesterday, as likewise of the

13th June, by way of Philadelphia, on the twenty-ninth day of June.
My dear sirs, I did not know who to write to until lately, as Mr.
J. F. Whitney was writing and getting me to write to G. R. Smith,
Saint Thomas. I don't know any person there; please excuse me,
as I could not answer your letter before this time; as for the ' Julia
Blake' and the funds for repairing, I think it will be all right. I
hope it won't be too much. I think J. F. Whitney will see it all
paid after she comes to N. York. Please give all the time you can,
and I guarantee you will have the pay, as I pay every one. My
dear sir, this is a thing I never had to do before, you, or any person
acting for the ' Julia Blake' will be sure of your pay; the vessel is
worth all expenses. I depend on you to do what is right and just;
after an adjustment and everything, the whole of the repairs won't
come out of me. I think I will be able to pay my share, as Captain
Knowlton will tell you. I want you to make sure of yourself by
bottomry until you see . how this will go in N. York; you will
please let me know by return of steamer from St. Thomas all the
particulars, as also the amount of repairs, and by so doing you will
much oblige your humble servant,
"(Signed)

PETER BLAKE."

On receipt of this, Lamb & Co. wrote the following letter: "Copy pr. S. S. ' Alpha.'

"ST. Tu~obi S, 20 July, 1876.

"PETER BLARE, Esq., Parsboro, N. S.
"DEAR Sn,- We have to acknowledge the receipt of your

valued favor of 4th instant, the contents of which claim our best
attention.
"The ' Julia Blake' is progressing with her repairs, and will soon
be ready to take in cargo; we cannot, at present, give you any
precise estimate of the expenses, as a good deal remains to be done

Oct. 1882,.]

THE "JULIA BLAKE."

yet, but Captain Knowlton is putting the vessel in first-rate order,
having at the same time regard to every practicable economy.
"The case being one of 'general average,' the cargo will, of
course, contribute its proper proportion towards expenses, and we
think the documents which Captain Knowlton will take with him,
will render the adjustment speedy and satisfactory to all the interests and parties concerned.
"We are, dear sir, yours faithfully,
" (Signed)

LAm

& Co."

Under date of June 1, 1876, Lamb & Co. wrote the shipper
of the cargo at Rio de Janeiro as follows: "' Star Ball' steamer from Porto Rico.
" ST. THOmAS, 1st June, 1876.
"DEMA Sin, - We have to advise that the brigantine 'Julia
Blake ' put in here on the 27th ult., dismasted and leaky. A survey has been held, and for effecting repairs, &c., the cargo is ,being
discharged.
" Captain Knowlton tells us that he has cabled the ' casualty ' to
the United States. As the cargo is consigned 'to order,' we have
been unable to acquaint the New York consignees of the misfortune.
"We remain, yours faithfully,
"Rio JANEiO.

"(Signed)

LAim & Co."

During all the time the vessel was at St. Thomas there was
facility for telegraphic communication with New York, and
until the 21st of July with Rio de Janeiro, by way of New
York, London, Lisbon, and Pernambuco. On this last date a
break occurred in the cable between Bahia and Rio de Janeiro,
but the Western Union Telegraph Company continued to transmit telegrams to Bahia, from whence they were forwarded to
Rio de Janeiro, the time required for transmission from New
York to Rio de Janeiro being about five days. These lines of
telegraph were often employed by merchants and men of business at St. Thomas, and that from St. Thomas to New York
was known to and used by the claimants. From the findings
it does not appear that the telegraph was used by any of the
parties after the telegram was sent the owner of the vessel on
the 29th of May, and no other letters appear to have passed
between the parties until after the vessel had completed her
repairs and sailed with her cargo for New York.

THE "JULIA

BLAKE."

[Sup. Ct.

Immediately after the second survey was completed the repairs on the vessel were commenced. The bills for the repairs
and supplies were paid by Lamb & Co., after the master had
certified to their correctness. The repairs were completed on
the 22d of July, and thereupon the master advertised for a
loan on bottomry afid respondentia of ship, freight, and cargo,
to the amount of $7,500, or thereabouts. The Bank of St.
Thomas alone made a proposal, and for the whole amount, at a
maritime interest of fourteen per cent. Lamb & Co. made no
iliquiries as to the necessity of the repairs and supplies, but relied wholly on the statement of the master. The only inquiry
made by the bank was as to the sufficiency of the security
and the regularity of the papers in their form of execution.
The discharge of the cargo was necessary in order to stop the
leaks and make the vessel seaworthy. The repairs and supplies furnished, as well as the remetalling, were necessary to
put the vessel in a seaworthy condition for a voyage to New
York.
When the loan came to be closed, the master told Lamb &
Co. that a large amount of expenses had been incurred of
which they had no previous information, and that the amount
required to defray the expenses and pay their commissions and
charges was $11,600. This amount the bank advanced, and
took the bond. The vessel left St. Thomas on the 5th of
August. On her arrival in New York the payment of the
bond was refused, and she, with her freight and cargo, was
libelled.
The cargo was not perishable and would not have been injured by being stored under cover at St. Thomas for three or
four months, and was worth in New York about $18,000. St.
Thomas is a central port where vessels go seeking business,
and to which parties requiring vessels also go. Vessels for the
shipment of merchandise are always available there. The
cargo could have been forwarded from there by vessels other
than the "Julia Blake" for from $1,000 to $1,500, and it was
for the interest of the owners that it should be so forwarded,
rather than hypothecated to pay for repairs to the "Julia
Blake."
On the 28th of September, after the vessel had sailed for

Oct. 1882.]

THE "JULIA

BLAKE."

New York, Lamb & Co. wrote the shipper of the cargo as
follows :-

"Per S. S. ' Nile,' via Southampton.
"6Rio DE JANEIRo.
" ST. THOmAS, 28th September, 1876.
"DEnr SIR,-Your favor of the 13th July last reached us recently
via Porto Rico, and only after the 'Julia Blake ' had sailed from this
port. The letter of instructions which you mention having given
to Captain Knowlton on sailing from Rio has never been laid before us, nor did he produce the charter-party, although we repeatedly
asked for it; he alleged that it had been mislaid or lost at the time
of the disaster at sea, and, on being questioned, denied having any
instructions from you as to the consignment of vessel in case of
average. The bills of lading being ' to order' left us no clue as to
the consignees of cargo. The casualty was, however, at once
cabled to the New York Board of Underwriters.
"cWhile we regret that you should have felt any doubt as to our
compliance with your wishes, it will now be clear to you how
blameless we are in the matter.
" Whether Captain Knowlton purposely withheld information
from us, or if he actually did lose the documents referred to, remains at present open for conjecture only, but the control intended
to have been placed with us remained, in part at least, in hands of
the captain, as master of the vessel.
"We would suggest that you advise us by mail of the despatch
of all vessels conveying instructions firom you to our firm, in the
event of their putting into this port in distress -would thus, if
necessary, be able at once to take up a position with the master,
and the protection of your interests at our hands can thus not be
disputed or ignored.
"The adoption of such a course on your part is, we think, more
advisable under present circumstantial means of mail communica-

tion between Rio and St. Thomas.
"We are, dear sir, yours, very truly,
"LAMB & Co."

The letter from the shipper referred to is not included in the
findings, and it nowhere appears that it was in evidence.
The case depends entirely on the authority of the master of
the vessel to give the bottomry bond on the cargo. It is now
the settled law of the English courts that a master " cannot
bottomly a ship without communication with his owner, if

THE "JULIA

BLAKE."

[Sup. Ot.

communication be practicable, and, a fortiori, cannot hypothecate the cargo without communicating with the owner of it, if
communication with such owner be practicable." The Gassa
.farittima, 2 App. Gas. 156. This doctrine was first announced
in The Bonaparte, 8 Moore P. C. 459, decided in 1853, and has
been steadily adhered to since, not, however, without decided
opposition by Dr. Lushington.
Te llamburg, 2 Moore P. C.
Nv. s. 289; Cargo ex Sultan, 1 Swabey, 504. Whether the
rule, to the extent it has been carried in England, is in accordance with the general maritime law, as understood in this
country and the maritime nations of Europe other than Great
Britain, or whether, since the "Julia Blake" was a British
vessel, the authority of her master in a Danish port is to be
determined by the English law, instead of the general maritime law, or the law of Denmark, are questions we deem it
unnecessary to consider; for, in our opinion, even under the
most liberal construction of any recognized rule which can be
invoked for the authority of the master over the cargo, this
bond cannot be sustained.
The master can neither sell nor hypothecate the cargo, except in case of urgent necessity, and his authority for that
purpose is no more than may reasonably be implied from the
circumstances in which he is placed. Ie acts for the owner
of the cargo because there is a necessity for some one to do so,
and, like every agent whose authority arises by implication of
law, he can only do what the owner, if present, ought to do.
Necessity develops his authority and limits his powers. What
he does must be directly or indirectly for the benefit of the
cargo, considering the situation in which it has been placed by
the accidents of the voyage. As was said by Sir William
Scott in The Gratitudine, 3 C. Rob. 240, 261, by which the
power of the master, under proper circumstances, to hypothecate the cargo to pay the expenses of repairs on the ship was
incontrovertibly established: " In all cases it is the prospect
of the benefit to the proprietor that is at the foundation of the
authority of the master. It is therefore true that, if the repairs of the ship produce no benefit or prospect of benefit to
the cargo, the master cannot bind the cargo for such repairs;
but it appears to me that the fallacy of the argument, that the

Oct. 1882.]

THE "JULIA BLAKE."

master cannot bind the cargo for the repairs of the ship, lies
in supposing that whatever is done for the repairs of the ship
is, in no degree and under no circumstances done for the benefit,
or with the prospect of benefit, to the cargo; whereas the fact
is, that, though the prospect of benefit may be more direct and
more immediate to the ship, it may still be for the preservation
and conveyance of the cargo, and is justly to be considered as
done for the common benefit of both ship and cargo." To the
same effect is what was said by Chief Baron Pollock in -Duncan
v. Benson, 1 Exch. 557: "But this agency for the freighter is
confined to cases affecting his interest, and where the sale or
pledge is directly or indirectly for his benefit. It is directly
beneficial where goods are damaged by perils of the sea, and
sold; it is indirectly so where there is damage to the ship, and
the repairs become necessary for the benefit of the whole adventure." Sir Robert Phillimore was even more explicit in the
case of The Onward, Law Rep. 4 Ad. & Ec. 38, 57, where he
used this language: "The next consequence from the doctrine
of agency is that the master must sustain, to the best of his
power, the interest of the absent owner. This is a principle
of general maritime law, and not . . . of English law only.
Boulay-Paty observes, . . .he must do that which there is
fair reason to suppose the owner, if present, would do ...
The master is to remember the foundation of his authority to
give a bottomry bond on cargo is the prospect of benefit, direct
or indirect, to the proprietor of it. This principle limits the
authority of the master in this matter." So, in this country,
Mr. Justice Washington said, in Boss v. The Ship Active,
2 Wash. C. C. 228, 237: "But at all events the necessity must
be such as to connect the act with the success of the voyage,
and not for the exclusive interest of the ship-owner." Undoubtedly in all such cases much is left to the master's discretion; but, to use the language of "Mr. Justice Story in The
Packet, 3 Mason, 255, 259, "he must exercise it conscientiously
for the general interest." This court said, in N\ew England
Ins. Co. v. The Sarah Ann, 13 Pet. 387, 400, speaking of the
analogous authority of the master to sell the ship: "All will
agree that the master must act in good faith, exercise his best
discretion for the benefit of all concerned, and that it can only

THE "JULIA BLAKE."

[Sup. Ct.

be done upon the compulsion of necessity, to be determined in
each case by the actual and impending peril to which the vessel
is exposed." And in The Amelie, 6 Wall. 18, 27, it was said:
"And this necessity is a question of fact, to be determined in
each case by the circumstances in which the master is placed
and the perils to which the property is exposed. If the master
can within a reasonable time consult the owners, he is required
to do it, because they should have an opportunity to decide
whether, in their judgment, a sale is necessary." When the
master is dealing with the cargo for the benefit of the voyage,
he "must endeavor to hold the balance evenly between his two
principals; he must not sacrifice the ship to the cargo or the
cargo to the ship." The Onward, supra.
It is equally well settled that a lender, upon the hypothecation of the cargo by a master of the vessel under his implied
authority, is chargeable with notice of the facts on which the
master appears to rely as a justification for what he is doing.
Such a lender is presumed to know that the power of the
master is to be determined by the necessities of the case in
their legal operation on the owner of the cargo. As necessity
creates the agency, and that only can be authorized which,
under the circumstances, is reasonable and just, he must make
his own inquiries and judge for himself, and at his own risk,
whether, if the owner were present, he would do or ought to
do that, or something equivalent, which the master is undertaking to do for him in his absence. A lender cannot shut his
eyes to existing facts as they appear, or by reasonable inquiry
could be made to appear, and treat with the master as a general agent, having authority to do not only what the owner
ought to do, but what he might do if he chose. Before there
can be a recovery against the owner it must be shown that the
circumstances were such as to make it apparently proper for
the master to do what he has done. To this extent the burden
of proof is clearly on the lender. The Aurora, 1 Wheat. 96 ;
iomas v. Osborn, 19 How. 22; The Amelie, 6 Wall. 18 ; The
Grapeshot, 9 id. 129; The Lulu, 10 id. 192. In these cases
the rule was applied to the hypothecation of the ship by the
master, where less strictness will ordinarily be required than
in the hypothecation of the cargo, because the master is the

Oct. 1882.]

THE "JULIA BLAKE."

appointed agent of the owner of the ship, but the involuntary
agent of the owner of the cargo.
It remains only to apply these well-settled rules to the facts
of the present case.
When the loan was advertised for and put on the market the
cargo was out of the vessel and in store. It was not perishable,
and could be sent forward to its place of destination in another
vessel, without any considerable delay, at a cost of from $1,000
to $1,500. The vessel had been two months in port. Her
cargo was consigned to New York. The bills of lading were
drawn to the order of the shipper, but accompanying them was
a letter to the master instructing him to whom to report at the
end of his voyage. If this letter had been lost, as the master
claimed it was, the fact that it had been given was not forgotten by him, for when he first went to Lamb & Co. he told them
of its loss. From that time for nearly two months, and until the
day before the loan was advertised for, telegraphic communication
between St. Thomas and Rio de Janeiro was practicable and
reasonably direct. The necessity for unloading the cargo and
making extensive and costly repairs on the vessel to fit her for
the further prosecution of the voyage was known as soon as the
surveys were completed, and yet neither the master nor Lamb
& Co. made any attempt to ascertain from the shipper by telegraph his wishes about the disposition to be made of the cargo
under the circumstances, or even to get information as to the
names of the consignees in New York, with whom there could
be communication both by mail and telegraph. Lamb & Co.
did, indeed, on the 1st of June, write the shipper by mail that
the vessel had put into St. Thomas dismasted and leaky; that
a survey had been held, and that, for effecting repairs, the
cargo was being discharged. But even this meagre information did not probably reach its destination until about the 13th
of July, -only
a few days before the loan was advertised
for.
Although Lamb & Co. were engaged by the master to attend
to the business of the vessel and her repairs, they made no
inquiry as to the propriety of what was done, but relied entirely
on his statements, and apparently allowed him to do what he
pleased; for it was not until a loan of $7,500 had been applied

THE " JULIA BLAKE."

[Sup. O .

for and taken, that they knew it would require $11,600 "to
defray expenses and their charges and commissions," and then
only when it was told them by him.
The findings show that when the vessel had been out from
Rio de Janeiro a little more than thirty days " her rigging
parted and her masts fell, the mainmast breaking at the saddle
and her foremast at the head." On her arrival at St. Thomas
her cargo had to be discharged to stop the leaks; her metal
was "much broken and torn away and ragged," and had to be
replaced with new to make her seaworthy for a voyage to New
York; and although on her reaching there she was attached
and sold for but $4,500, leaving, after paying wages of the
crew and expenses of the sale, only $3,500 to apply on the
loan, the aggregate of her expenditures in St. Thomas was
$11,600.
From these facts it is, to our minds, apparent that when the
vessel arrived at St. Thomas she ought not to have been repaired
at the risk of expense to the owner of the cargo without his
consent, and that this could easily have been ascertained by an
inquiry into the facts. She came in "dismasted ' and leaky"
"for a general equipment and refit," with a cargo substantially
imperishable, which might be forwarded in another vessel at
comparatively small expense; and it must have been easy to
see that to repair the vessel at the risk of the owner of the
cargo would be to place his interests in jeopardy, without any
urgent necessity on his account. No master who "held the
balance evenly between his two principals " could have believed
himself justified, under the circumstances, in hypothecating
the cargo for any such purpose, without notice to the owner.
But when the repairs were completed, and the hypothecation
was tendered, the impropriety of what the master proposed to
do was even more apparent. Then the offer was to pledge
vessel, freight, and cargo for $13,324, when the most casual
observer must have seen that the vessel and freight would
actually secure only a comparatively small part of the amount
required. Of all this the lender, who made no inquiries whatever, is chargeable in law with notice. Had he inquired, and
been deceived through no fault of his own, the case might have
been different; bu't having failed to inquire at all, he is pre-

Oct. 1882.]

THE " JULIA BLAKE."

sumed to know all that the master knew. His case presents
itself, therefore, as that of a lender upon the hypothecation of
a cargo by the master, without communication with the consignee or owner, to pay the expenses of permanent repairs to
the vessel, when it was manifest that the owner of the cargo
could not be benefited by what was done to anything like the
amount with which he was to be charged.
It is contended, however, that the owner of the cargo has no
right to demand his property at an intermediate port unless
the voyage has been actually abandoned or the necessary repairs
on the vessel cannot be effected. The cargo owner is not bound
to help the vessel through with her voyage under all circumstances. It is the duty of the vessel owner, and of the master
as his appointed agent, to do all that in good faith ought to be
done to carry the cargo to its place of destination, and for that
purpose the cargo owner should contribute to the expense as
far as his interests may apparently require; but he is under no
obligation to sacrifice his cargo, or to allow it to be sacrificed,
for the benefit of the vessel alone. He ought to do what good
faith towards the vessel demands, but need not do more. If
he would lose no more by helping the vessel in her distress
than he would by taking his property and disposing of it in
some other way, he should, if the vessel owner or the master
requires it, furnish the help or allow the cargo to be used for
that purpose. To that extent he is bound to the vessel in her
distress, but no further. When, therefore, a cargo owner finds
a vessel, with his cargo on board, at a port of refuge needing
repairs which cannot be effected without a cost to him of more
than he would lose by taking his property at that place and
paying the vessel all her lawful charges against him, we do not
doubt that he may pay the charges and reclaim the property.
Otherwise he would be compelled to submit to a sacrifice of his
own interests for the benefit of others, and that the law does
not require. What charges must be paid will depend on the
circumstances of the case. Sometimes they may include full
fr eight, expenses at the port of refuge, general average charges,
and possibly more, and sometimes less; but upon full payment of such as are in law demandable, the cargo must be
surrendered.

432

THE "JULIA BLAKE."

[Sup. Ct.

In the present case, it is not only found as a fact that it was
for the interest of the shipper that his property should be forwarded by some other vessel rather than that it should be
hypothecated to pay for the repairs, but everything else in the
findings points unmistakably to the conclusion that such repairs
could not have been effected without an expense to him of
very much more than it would cost to reclaim his property,
pay all lawful charges upon it, and send it forward by some
other conveyance. Under such circumstances, we have no
hesitation in saying that the master had no authority to pledge
the cargo as he did without the consent of the shipper or consignees. The notice given the shipper was entirely insufficient
and furnished no such information as would require him to act
otherwise than he appears to have done. He did not get the
letter until nearly six weeks after it was written, and from its
contents he was justified in supposing that before his property
was incumbered to any considerable amount be would be notified by telegraph. Certainly, so long as the mail only was
used to communicate with him, he need not have supposed it
was necessary at the end of six weeks to employ the telegraph
for a response to such information as he got. It must have
been apparent from the outset, at St. Thomas, that it would be
necessary to hypothecate the cargo to pay for the repairs, if
they were made, and there was no excuse for not communicating that fact either to the shipper or the consignees before it
was too late for them to object or provide against it. All this
the lender of the money could have known if inquiry had been
made; and there was abundance of evidence in all directions
to show that no prudent cargo owner would voluntarily do
what the master was doing for him. Clearly, therefore, the
hypothecation of the cargo was unauthorized and void.
It is insisted, however, that if the bottomry bond cannot be
enforced, the cargo may be held in this suit for such charges
as it was liable for to the vessel. No such claim is made in
the libel. Full freight has been paid, and there is nothing in
the case as it comes to us to show that anything more was
demandable. If the vessel was unseaworthy when she left Rio
de JIaneiro, all the extraordinary expenses she incurred on the
voyage were probably through her own fault, and not charge-

Oct. 1882.]

ALLEN V. MCVEIGH.

able on the cargo. At any rate, there is nothing in the record
as it now stands to make it proper for us to remand the cause
for further proceedings under this new claim.

.Decreeaffirmed.

ALLEn v. MOVEIGE.
1. Where, in an action brought in a court of Virginia against an indorser of
promissory notes, payable August, 1861, at Alexandria in that State, the
point in controversy being as to tile sufficiency of the notices of dishonor,
and tile court decided in substance that by the general principles of commercial law, if, during the late civil war, he abandoned his residence in
loyal territory and went to reside permanently within the Confederate lines
before the note matured, a notice left at his former residence was not
sufficient to charge him, if his change of residence was known, or by the
exercise of reasonable diligence might have been knovn, to the holder of
the note when it matured, - Hed, that no Federal question was raised by
the decision.
2. Where the plaintiff's prayer for instructions relates also to tile Virginia ordinance of secession and the proclamations of the President of April, 1861,
and Aug. 16, 1861, but, as the case stood upon the evidence, neither of them
was involved, and no title, right, privilege, or immunity thereunder was
claimed by either party, -Held, that the prayer was properly refused;
and, the only Federal question thereby sought to be raised having been
correctly disposed of, this court cannot consider the other errors assigned.

ErROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
A1. Hierome 0. Clau.qhton for the plaintiff in error.
Xr. Philip _Phillips, Mr. T. Hallett Phillips, and Mr. wilUam A. Xllaury for the defendant in error.
MRu. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit against William N. McVeigh, as indorser of
two promissory notes, and the matter in dispute is as to the
sufficiency of the notices of dishonor. The notes fell due, one
on the 2d and the other on the 23d of August, 1861, at the
E:change Bank of Virginia in Alexandria. The notary, in his
certificate of protest, stated that he had delivered "a notice of
VOL. XVII.

28

